https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25014.The_Map_That_Changed_the_World
The official blurb says it the best: "In 1793, a canal digger named William Smith made a startling discovery. He found that by tracing the placement of fossils, which he uncovered in his excavations, one could follow layers of rocks as they dipped and rose and fell -- clear across England and, indeed, clear across the world -- making it possible, for the first time ever, to draw a chart of the hidden underside of the earth. Determined to expose what he realized was the landscape's secret fourth
Finally, in 1831, this quiet genius -- now known as the father of modern geology -- received the Geological Society of London's highest award and King William IV offered him a lifetime pension.The Map That Changed the World is a very human tale of endurance and achievement, of one man's dedication in the face of ruin.
He was the first son of the local blacksmith in the hamlet of Churchill.It is within this social mileu that William Smith, with his interest in fossils and rocks, would draw up the first geological map of England and change the world of science forever.
I’m partial to stories where the good guy wins out in the end – particularly after being faced with absurd odds.
And this book does end ‘happily even after’ – except…I didn’t come away from this book feeling particularly good about humanity.
As Winchester says during the book, it was almost as if the rich felt Smith needed to be taught a lesson for having the audacity of being both lower class and having worked out the secrets of geology before his betters.Why is it that so often – if one person has power over another person – the favourite game of those with power is humiliation?
In the first couple of chapters Winchester blew his wad, so to speak, giving the complete rundown of Smith's lower class roots (a blacksmith's son), his geological discovery and the implications, his shunning by The Higher Classes of Geology, and his final days of anonymity until a long overdue recognition.
The long-winded descriptions of the English countryside were a little much for me, but I did enjoy the sidetracking into the religious groupthink of the time, and the examination of what Smith's discovery actually implied - that the age of the Earth as calculated by Bishop Usher was wrong wrong WRONG.
England).
His reactions to continual snubbing by the upper classes and theft of his IP reminded me of more than one would-be startup CEO: overspending and overreaching in an attempt to play with the big boys of finance.
If you can deal with Winchester's arch prose, it is worth the read.
Ideally, someone would write one of those longish pieces in the New Yorker about the story - that is really all the material there really is, and a better written narrative would do the subject considerable benefit.[N.B. I read a reviewers' draft that might have been somewhat rougher than final copies - I can only hope so].
He builds anticipation of misfortune throughout until the bailiffs actually arrive and Smith is imprisoned for debt.
For me, this overweighs excitement at the significance of Smith's realisations that the laying down of fossils in different strata of England's landscape marked the beginning of a modern scientific view of the earth's history as one marked by long periods of changing climate, flora and fauna; that species appeared and disappeared; and that the record of all these great changes lay in rocks and could be read.This challenged creation myths of all faiths, and must have influenced Charles Darwin's thinking as he worked towards his theory of evolution.
Rocks. They’re old.Thank you for reading my review.OK, I guess I’ll go into slightly more detail. In his phenomenal  A Short History of Nearly Everything , Bill Bryson devotes slightly less than a page to William Smith and the first geological map of Britain. This is likely a result of Bryson (or his editors) striving in vain to meet that promise of being “short”. Bryson promises us a more “comprehensive” account in The Map That Changed the World. I didn’t actually find this book through A Short
, another non-fiction book that I read recently, The Map That Changed the World is a semi-biographical look at the contributions of one man to a field of scientific study—in this case, geology.
But it was a start, a beginning in a chain of reasoning that would lead geologists to speculate that the Earth’s past extends into the millions and billions of years, and culminate in Charles Darwin publishing a controversial treatise about the origins of humankind.The way that Smith and so many scientists clung to the Biblical interpretation of the origins and age of the Earth stayed on my mind as I read this book.
Overall, though, The Map That Changed the World is a detailed and passionate account of the life of William Smith and his contributions to English geology.
This is a scientific non-fiction book, but the way it is told it reads like a great adventure novel of the 'quest towards a geological map', which is in my opinion has been a very good choice to tell the story.
Also it is obvious that the author is a fan of William Smith and his work which made this a very happy book to read because the author has so much compassions for Smith's trials.Because of its adventurous vibe this book is very accesible also for readers who do not know anything about geology (like me).

I have been reading this book for over a year.
The story is fascinating.
It is hard to force myself to pick up the book.
Sad, because William Smith and his geologic map of England mark an important milestone in the history of science.
They are also important to understanding the development of the concept of deep time.
Creationists are often stymied when they learn that Smith was able to use fossil species to place the rock strata in time order long before the theory of evolution by natural selection was even a gleam in Darwin's eye.
When I was a New York manny (before moving to western MA to go to grad school) one of the families I worked for gave me this book.
I think I was probably supposed to return it, but wound up having to leave NY in a hurry because of a health and then a housing situation.
Many goodreads reviewers are less than satisfied with the delivery of this book, and I hear that.
And others argue that there is enough substance in here for a pamphlet but not necessarily a book-length manuscript.
I think all of these things are fair points to make, but I still found that the book was enjoyable and educational.
William Smith is one of those characters from the English industrial revolution who led such a fascinating life, that it is surprising that he hasn't more biographers.
Many, especially the Scots, would disagree with the claim that Smith was the father of modern geology.
However, for my money, William Smith's is a better story and of interest to those who did not previously have the slightest interest in rocks.
It is the life story of much flawed character with the single-minded, stubborn determination, common to the genius irrespective of their chosen field.
Give it a try, you might be.pleasantly surprised.
This is the tale of William Smith, the first guy to create a geologic map.
The story is an interesting one, about a poor bastard beset by the rich types who stole his work and denied him the credit he so deserved, to the point where the guy actually was consigned to debtor’s prison.
His social life was even less successful.
Late in life he married a much younger woman of fragile psychological stability.
This is not a book for the average reader.
Perhaps a geeky orientation might be desirable to truly enjoy this book.
This is a book about William Smith who figured out that only certain fossils are found in certain strata, and you could use this information to created a vertical map of the earth underneath our feet or below ground.
He was eventually let out of debtor’s prison, which were mild confinements compared to regular prisons, and slowly people started to recognize the importance of his work and the map that he worked for most of his life.
My favorites of his are the two on the making of the Oxford English Dictionary (the go to academic dictionary).I think anybody who likes good writing would enjoy this book, unless they cannot stand the topic.
Fascinating, if a little heavy in places.
so I was bound to like this book, especially considering the dust jacket is a fold-out, full-color reproduction of the map under discussion.
and yet he allowed the evidence to guide his thought processes, collecting specimens, and organizing the data in such a way as to reveal the true age of the rocks, in good scientific fashion.The other conflict played out in numerous ways, including the co-opting of original work by Smith, who was considered of lower class, by others who were in the upper class.
This is a brilliantly readable account of the life of William Smith and how his efforts helped in the establishment of one of the most all encompassing sciences, Geology.
As a result of his efforts mines were opened, canals built and the industrial heritage of the UK was set.
The glossary at the back clarifies some of the terminology for those who are not so familiar with the subject without being condescending or patronising and the bibliography has some great suggestions for further reading.
Overall another great book from a brilliant science writer.
I don't really know what possessed me to listen to this book.
Yes, I enjoyed his book The Professor and the Madman and yes, I was desperate for a talking book, but really a book about a man who figured out how to map England below ground?Well to be honest, it was fascinating.
Occasionally I had trouble following the science and sometimes I wondered if the book had maps or pictures that I would be interested in.
Whenever I would think it was time to quit or actually read the book, Winchester would talk about something that really caught my attention.I don't still know why this book seemed like the right choice at the time, but it was.
I had never heard of William Smith, a famous geologist, in the late 1700's and early 1800's.
At first it was hard to get into the book, but I grew quite interested in the story as time passed.
Smith's life was full of ups and downs, and is especially interesting to realize that his career advancement and recognition was actually severely hampered by his social status.
A nephew who lived with them followed in his uncle's footsteps and I was glad to know that he had some positive family interaction in his life.
An unusual and remarkable story.Simon Winchester writes wonderful nonfiction!
This is a good and important story but there is not much to it, really.
More important, I want to understand why his story is meaningful.
I got all of that, sometimes in much more detail than was really needed.
What I had trouble with is the actual geology.
There is a great chapter devoted to the fascinating geology of Britain but I really needed to call on Google to get me through it.
Testament to the power of a good map, I got a glimpse of why this one was so revolutionary.
I have put this one aside at about halfway. I think this writer doesn't do the subject justice. I read The Professor and the Madman a few years ago and ended up feeling the same way. The subject is interesting and I was compelled to read it at the realization that this brings up so many interrelated ideas - not to mention the cultural impact. Yet, his writing doesn't have a hook for me. It feels like he's trying to tell a "story" but it's coming out like an extra long wikipedia entry.
Great book about geology.
A fascinating look at how William Smith's discovery changed how the world was and is seen. The birth of modern geology.
The story is about William Smith, THE Father of Geology, who unfortunately was not recognized for his contributions to this new (at the time) science until much too late in his life.
His map would show the rock stratification of England and Wales, which would have a huge impact on its economy (think coal, limestone, etc.).
Unfortunately, the map today resides in the Geological Society of England, behind blue curtains and is only revealed when asked.
All in all, an enjoyable read about the founding of the science of geology and the man who did it.
I never heared of William Smith before. The life of this pioneer in geology and and the way he made his important map are an interesting topic. I enjoyed the fact the his life was described against the background of Victorian society. The way think8ng shifted and the world changed during a rather short time, is utterly fascinating.
This book is a snooze fest. I appreciate what William Smith has done, but perhaps the author isn't doing him full justice. As a geologist, I would have liked to learn about Smith's geological contributions in more detail and less about his finances.
Hehe, het boek is uit.Ik kon me er moeilijk op concentreren. Het ‘verhaal’ stond boordevol feitjes, en in de voetnoten die soms een halve pagina in beslag namen, kwamen nog meer feiten voorbij.Eigenlijk vooral uit gelezen ivm een bookbingo.
requested via library
Setting aside the fact that in those days nymphomania was more of a catch-all term for anything men found suspicious in female behavior, from healthy sexual desire to unhealthy, from intelligence to schizophrenia, she was institutionalized.This is history, so I don’t think it’s a spoiler alert to say that at the end, his name, reputation and fortunes were mostly restored and he received his just due for elevating geology out the (sorry) stone age and into the relatively sleek, modern science we all know and love today.I’ve read other books by this author and enjoy them, though this one came close at times to being pretentious with some overly flowery word choices that seemed out of keeping with the Mohs-hard science (“…the Variscan Orogeny wrought havoc with the seams…”), but it could be argued that the highly-literate language also helped evoke the era.
Then the denigration: because of his low birth, lack of education, and a singular focus on field work that left him little time or inclination for publishing his findings and maps, he was passed over for commissions and membership in the fledgling Geological Society, and his work was plagiarized without attribution or compensation.
Smith appears to be an engaging character, worthy of Winchester's attention, and his findings did literally change the world we saw under the surface (his work was the basis for the geological knowledge that enabled underground mineral resources to be identified based on the rock strata and fossils in them), so if this is your topic then this is your book.
It is probably my own bias as a geologist who has done a tiny bit of mapping to want more.I did like the chapter where the author journeys through England on the upper- and middle-Jurrassic divide.
And makes you realize how skewed our history is and how much has been lost due to a lack of advertising skills.I was glad the book did not delve further into how the religious sector reacted to Smith's work and geology in general (beyond the line or two about how they thought his work supported theirs).I also liked the author's description about how some of the English villages are "very English" because of the geology and I feel he does a good job of bringing to light the influence geology in our everyday lives, from building stone to the atmosphere of towns on certain outcrops, etc.
