https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51740.Staying_Fat_for_Sarah_Byrnes
UPDATE (to previous 2010 review--see below)You know a book is a great book when it packs even more of an emotional punch the second time you read it.
The first time I read this book was for a YA Lit class I took during college.
(And then I devoured the rest today.) And I say all of this even knowing what happened in this book, having previously read it.I said it once, I'll say it a thousand times...I LOVE this book.
Another big plus in this book is that Crutcher absolutely does not shy away from any of the raw topics of life, ranging from domestic abuse to abortion to religion, which is why he gets banned quite frequently.
Together Eric and Sarah Byrnes got each other through the nightmare that is junior high.
And, though he thinks he might know why Sarah Byrnes finally checked out, Eric isn't at all sure what to do to get her back.I love this book.
It's impossible not to like Eric right away and the bond between him and Sarah Byrnes is touching in the extreme.
I didn't even surface while reading STAYING FAT FOR SARAH BYRNES.
I loved Eric, the boy so loyal, so afraid of losing his best friend that he stayed fat an extra year for her.
Why did Sarah Byrnes stop talking?
Feeling in the mood for some more angst, but wary of the emphasis on sports in a lot of his books, I decided swimming would be an interesting sport to read about and picked up Staying Fat. It wasn't bad.
In fact, it was very similar to other books of Crutcher's I've read in that it deals with sports and angst.
If that didn't annoy me enough, Crutcher takes some big issues and, with the help of the one-dimensional Bad Guys and the sympathtic and in-depth Good Guys, turns them into black-and-white choices.
Eric Calhoune (Moby) is the fat kid in his school and his best friend is Sarah Byrnes is the weird girl with burn scars.
Moby was willing to stay overweight just so Sarah wouldn't feel insecure because he could lose his weight and be “normal” while she was stuck with her scars forever.
I loved how she went on board to help Moby and Sarah Byrnes out.
There were multiple stories going on in this book, we get to learn about both when Moby and Sarah Byrnes first started their friendship, the Crispy Pork Rinds article that they've created and their high school years.
This novel is a heart-wrenching, very real novel of two best friends that stayed close for so long due to their alienated qualities. Makes me think twice about how I treat people in all settings. Chris Crutcher is definitely worth while.
I believe I read this book while in high school, but picked it up at Borders again.This Crutcher story focuses on Eric Calhoun, a high school student who was formerly "the fat kid," and his friend Sarah Byrnes.
Sarah is a special person - Eric knows this immediately.
Gradually, he changes his tactics and "stays fat" for her by standing up for her against his classmates.But when Sarah lands herself in the psychiatric unit, unresponsive and completely mute, Eric knows that something is horribly wrong.
After all, Sarah is the strongest person he knows.
I think I could write a one-word review of this book (obviously I've exceeded that already, but I'm making a point here).
Anyway, here's my one-word review:FAN-_ _ _ _ _ _ _-TASTIC.
The middle part of the first review had an impact, didn't it?Here's why this book is FAN-_ _ _ _ _ _ _-TASTIC:1.
I actually gave my sister a summary of what the book was about, I only got through two sentences before she broke me off and said she couldn't handle any more, it was too much.
This is a book by Chris Crutcher, so of course, it deals with some heavy issues like child abuse, abortion and bullying.
The protagonist, Eric, is a 'fat kid' who befriends a scarred girl at his school - Sarah Byrnes.
Crutcher writes about young adults and their interactions with each other very realistically - it isn't dumbed down.
This book is more enjoyable than Whale Talk because it is less gruesome, even though it still tackles the big issues.
I thought this book was gripping and would recommend it to both high school students and adults.
This book was just plain annoying.
Chris Crutcher's agenda was so obvious and obnoxious, it made me mad.
Only half the book was spent on the plot, the other half was spent bashing someone for their beliefs and making this one stereotypical character look like a real jerk.
The plot and catchy title looked intriguing, but it was hidden too deep underneath the annoying characters.
This wasn't the first time this happened with a Chris Crutcher novel.
In his other book I read called The Sledding Hill, in which Crutcher also ignores the plot in order to push his own agenda.
This was an unexpected plot. Eric is fat and Sarah Byrnes was burned as a child. Their lives seem to fit together as outcasts. But when Eric joins the swim team and starts losing weight Sarah fears he won't be friends with her anymore. Add some crazy Christian fundamentalists, and a discussion class that talks about all the hot topics, Sarah faking being crazy to get away from her asshole father and you have the makings of a great read!
I'll be keeping this on my shelf and I hope I never ever have to hand it to a child who needs the wisdom in this book.
What no one knows is the real way her face got burnt.
Perhaps not as bad as Sarah Byrnes, but perhaps like Mark Brittain.
I suppose the nightmare character in this book....calling him a baddie would be like calling Moby Dick a fishie...is somewhat one dimensional.
Bottom line: I recommend this book to all counselors and all teens who have not told anyone they need help.
I wish this could have been a required book in one of my classes. Then I would have had the pleasure of ripping it apart in front of an audience.
Midway through, though, the book gets into some pretty heady issues: suicide, abortion, religion, child abuse.
The characters' experiences and the way Crutcher tells them definitely make the reader think -- especially the in=class argument about abortion and religion.
From the halfway point to near the end, I was getting pretty satisfied with the book, but the ending dropped it back down to mediocre in my view.
It felt like Crutcher had written himself into a deep-issues hole and couldn't get out, so he just make quick and easy resolutions for the characters.
Don't let the weird cover scare you away-this was great.
I'd never read anything by this author before now, and I'm glad to see he's written several books.
It was surprising to find out this one was written in 2003.
Otherwise, the kids could be from a book written this year.
They're not all great, which is the heart of this book's problem.
I loved that the characters changed over the course of the book.
(view spoiler)[ I loved that enemies could become friends, or at least friendly.
(hide spoiler)] Moby's voice was great.
I never took the class, so I never read the book, but I’d heard good life affirming things about it from some of the derelicts that did take the class, and that stuck with me.
As a teacher, I try to read some YA lit each summer, if only as a way to stay relevant and in touch with the kids.
(I guess since The Hate U Give is getting so much press that ought to be next) Since this book touched so many of the vagrants of my own high school fifteen years ago, I figured it had to be worth something.And it is!
Well that was a heartbreaking story.
I liked the whole concept and the writing was great, but certain things pulled me out and kept me from being too invested: the narrator has a very snappy, witty sense of humor and thinks and speaks in a unique way.
That's great, but ALL the characters talked like that, which did not feel realistic at all.
It was clearly just the author's writing style and I wished he had created different voices for the other characters.
I couldn't picture certain parts happening in real life.
I picked this up from my library's banned book pile.
It would have made me so much more comfortable in my skin and helped me see that I didn't have to drive myself crazy striving to be perfect.
Is this story perfect?No, it's far from it.For the most part it is jerky, boring, and hard to follow.
But then there are these gems that really put it all in perspective and you realize -- wait a minute, that's just like real life.
Some really hard topics like abortion, deformities, abuse, and suicide are presented and are handled very well.
This book definitely needs to be taken off the "banned" shelf.
When Sarah Byrnes, a horribly scarred girl ends up silent in Sacred heart Hospital, it's up to Eric Calhoune to figure out what's going on.
After talking to an old friend, it is up to Eric and Lemry to fix Sarah Byrnes situation.
Having Sarah Byrnes write in a notebook about why she is there after her dad becomes more nosey, Eric must tell Lemry.
After getting out of the hospital, Eric learns that Sarah and Lemry found Sarah's mom, but she was not willing to help or stop Virgil from doing things, and she would simply kill herself.
I thought Staying Fat for Sarah Byrnes was an exceptionally good book.
If my son had to write a paper on this, I’d encourage him to write on this guy and stay out of the religion/suicide/abortion debate debacle (unless he wanted to get in the fray and represent!).What I was ambivalent about: How the author handled the disfiguring facial scars—and relationships—of title character Sarah Byrnes.
When Sarah Byrnes has her big moment near the end of the book, no character told her of His love.
so of course everyone knows him as "Moby."Sarah Byrnes is outspoken, angry, and awesome, with burns on her face and her hands...
It's a pretty cruel coincidence that her surname is Byrnes, yes, but Sarah Byrnes embraces it as much as a person can be expected to.It's a strange friendship, the one that exists between Moby and Sarah Byrnes--but it works because they're both outcasts.
And therein lies the problem.Ultimately, STAYING FAT FOR SARAH BYRNES is a book about friendship and kindness.
Do I recommend STAYING FAT FOR SARAH BYRNES?
While I wouldn't say it is "the best book I've ever read", it is enjoyable.I'll start with the things I don't like.
Also, this book pisses me off at some points.
And seeing the stupid arguments made from both sides makes me want to jump into the book and punch some of the characters.
So if you are political, it will irritate you at some points.Now, what I do like, is a lot more than what I don't.
But throughout the book, however, the problems seem hard.
Eric faces many real life paradoxes.
Possibly taking some lessons for yourself.The book is overall enjoyable and I personally found it hard to put down.
The “villains” in the book are a stereotyped unjust and sadistic vice principal and a fundamentalist Christian swimming competitor who proves to be particularly hypocritical.
My objections: spates of bad language, and the “politically correct” attitudes--all fundamentalist Christians are hypocritical morons who justify physical abuse of a child as a parent’s “right,” while good guys are priests who accept all standards and sexual orientations, teachers who entertain discussions of moral questions--as long as students are willing to accept immorality and abortion as justified, and parents who accept any kind of behavior as a child’s choice, with little real input.
I also loved that when Eric realized he was in over his head he went to a respected adult for help and she was able to do what was right and help Sarah instead of following the rules.The other drama in the book was interesting.
The class where a lot of this action takes place in brings up some very interesting topics that are hot buttons.
The adults in this book were interesting too.
You have parents that were supportive, parents that are so not, teachers that were open minded, school officials that were so closed minded and seemed to cause more issues, and one adult that takes a very surprising action that will have you cheering for him.
This book covered a lot of ground.
- suicide- abuse- friendship- abortion- bullying- family- religion/beliefsAlmost all of the above issues were handled realistically and in a way that teens could relate to.
The story itself is about Eric aka Moby and Sarah Byrnes.
Watching Moby fight for Sarah, and grow as a person really made the story great for me.
I didn't love everything he did or said, but I don't always love everything I do or say either, and that was what made me like him so much.Overall, I'm glad I had to read this book.
Wow. I read this because another ELA teacher, grade 10 at another school, requires that her students read this.
It was highly recommended by her years ago, and I found a copy and remembered.
I wasn't hooked right away, and there was almost enough swimming/sport focus to ruin it, but there was enough drama to keep me interested.
We have intelligent male characters with great adult role models, much like John Green usually provides.
Intelligent banter, intellectual discussions with inspiring teachers....this book was just right for this liberal who wants to live in a bubble.
I highly recommend to "teens who care." Extremely satisfying.

An exceptionally well written story, full of wit, great dialogue, and such memorable characters. Reminds us adults can be the worst bullies, but also true heroes. The author creates scenes where it really feels you're in the room with these interesting group of teens; I'll certainly look for more books by him. While the ending seemed a bit rushed and detoured a bit from the pace of the rest of the novel it is still highly recommended.
This is probably more like a 2.5 for me. It picked up more towards the end but the majority of this book was just....dull. Maybe his writing just isn't for me.
Single-sitting read. No higher praise than that.
Not my cup of tea.
