https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270641.Heart_s_Blood
Bah!! I'm not sure what I'm going to rate this. I liked it, I didn't get it, great prose, the ending was shit, the author dropped a bomb that makes me want to pick up the next one. It's all over the place. Confusing RTC

Let me be first be petty & complain about the cover art.
...Actually, it's indicative of the level of skill inside the book.First, that woman does NOT want to be there.
There is definitely something wrong with her hips & his butt.Let's take a larger view of the cover.
It's a book about dragons!
So let's center the dragons.....ass?...in the middle of our cover?
This is a horrible composition.The first book established the very basics about the (sexist) world & the 'hero' gets his dragon.
So what do you do in the second book?
Like its prequel, this book had a very original setting. I though this story explored the settings potential more, but the story was very anti-climactic.
It was pretty boring and slow before the goal of the book completely changed and it just got confusing. Things went from dragon fights to saving Akki from rebels to running from the government.
I would have given this 2 1/2 stars. Heart's Blood continues the story of Dragon's Blood. Here the story becomes involved in the politics of the planet, and Jakkin's relationship with his dragon and Akki develops. Although still imaginative, I found the story a bit clumsy and the dialogue often choppy, or out of character. I found myself thinking, 'would he really have said all that or that way?'Also, I did not like many of the plot choices. I did not like the ending which was too abrupt and rather unbelievable.It is still worth the read, but disappointing to me.
Jakkin's childishness seems petty, his ignorance less a product of his upbringing and more a lack of concern about people other than himself.
contrived circumstances of the novel seem to be outside forces manipulating Jakkin into...
We get barely a glimpse of some political upheaval, because suddenly there is some sort of explosion and they're on the run from what may or may not be the law, if there is in fact a "law".
Hearts Blood by Jane Yolen was definitely not as good as the first. was like how it gets into the planets politics more and sorta keeps hearts blood in the book but it is very anti-climatic in different ways. It was a story that sorta kept tripping over its self and had a horrible ending that ended very quickly. I also dislike some of the choices for the books plot which made the story choppy and skeptical. One thing i liked about this book for certain though is how they include star ships, guns
was like how it gets into the planets politics more and sorta keeps hearts blood in the book but it is very anti-climatic in different ways.
It was a story that sorta kept tripping over its self and had a horrible ending that ended very quickly.
One thing i liked about this book for certain though is how they include star ships, guns, and different planets with life.
My favorite character is still hearts blood because of the first book.
my least favorite character was senator golden because of his sketchy personage.
I don't know how to rate or review this book.
Honestly, I don't know how I feel about Heart's Blood.
It was written well, but in a sense, I feel as if I have no idea what the purpose of the story was.
As I said, I finished this book and can't figure out how I feel about it.
My true rating on it is more of a 3.5 stars.I likely won't read any of the others in this series.
The story didn't grab me enough to care, but it was well-written and I did enjoy the read.....I think.
Jakkin's dragon, Heart's Blood, is now a champion of several small fights in the pits, but is taking time off for breeding.
Jakkin longs to set off immediately for the city, where Akki has gotten involved in rebel activity -- but there are the hatchlings to consider...This continues the story started in Dragon's Blood, and expands into the politics of Jakkin's home planet.
It's a pretty quick read, but of course, it is not the end of the series, so in some ways it serves as a bridge to the events of the next book.
Sequel to Dragon's Blood, which I recently had to scan for offensive material at the request of a parent. Some situations are not appropriate for elementary--the Baggeries, their name of houses of ill repute are seen as an acceptable place of occupation for young girls. This is actually an incidental part in son otherwise entertaining fantasy world involving Jakkin, a young dragon trainer who seeks his lost love in the city of Rokk, where she is working underground with the rebel forces.
This second book was better than the first, but good grief, the ending was weird. Interesting and sort of artsy, but weird. Heart's Blood addressed some of the bad stuff inherent to the fictional world--the class system, indentured servitude, etc., but also didn't address the casual acceptance of plenty of other bad stuff. (Eugenics, etc.) And dear effing god, the sexism burned all the way through. It was absolutely ridiculous.
I liked the first book better. I do tend to enjoy origin stories best, but this sequel got muddled with spy plots and things that detracted from character and motive. I had a few of those moments when I said to myself, "I can't believe that character would act like that." I will probably still read book number three, however, because I like the world and the first book so much.
It's always weird re-reading books that were important to you when you were much younger, because it seldom has the same resonance again years later, even if you still enjoy it. This is still a good book, and I'm glad it's still in print, but it's certainly not a powerful one for the person I am now, rather than the person I was when I read it thirty-ish years ago.
First book was very interesting. Book 2 was not as good and seemed to move away from what was fun about the first book. Got about 3/4 of the way through book 3 when I just gave up. It just wasn't fun or interesting anymore.
Read this series (then only 3 books) when I was a kid back in middle school -- I absolutely loved every page. I plan on going back through this series eventually, especially since there's a new book (as of 2009); we'll see if I enjoy it as much as an adult.
These books went from being interesting but poorly written books about dragons to being uninteresting poorly books written about politics. So I quit and wikipedia'd the rest of the series. No thanks.
Even better than the first!I enjoyed reading this novel more than the first novel. I am excited to see how the two main young people continue their lives on this dragon planet.
I really liked the end of this one. Looking forward to the next one.
Read this to my 5 year old...she got bored after 5 chapters, but I continued to read it. I thought it was a good book! I was sad about the ending, but it was sweet at the same time.
Jakkin is now a master dragon trainer, a position with which he is not quite comfortable. And Erikkan, his bondsman, makes it ever more uncomfortable by enjoying his role of subservience. Heart's Blood is about to hatch her first set of eggs. All of this seems unimportant, however, when a stranger, Durrah Golden, comes to the nursery and announces that Akki is missing. Jakkin and Sarkkhan go in search of her and become entangled in political intrigue and violent rebellion. It is uncertain who they can trust.I really like the characters; they are well written.
"Ask questions but keep your own counsel. Twice he had been so cautioned. He would try it" p 163. Some lessons teen hero learns, others not yet. He dislikes old Likkarn from the start, doesn't really change. (view spoiler)[ Likkarn slows pursuers for Jakkin and Akki to escape, by timing drug rage. (hide spoiler)]Motivations, why people act as they do, confuse me here. Political arguments about Federation are boring, I have to skip, get more confused. Deaths. Three warns "Be careful", "Dead right
(view spoiler)[ Likkarn slows pursuers for Jakkin and Akki to escape, by timing drug rage.
(view spoiler)[Why are Jakkin and Akki blamed and chased on testimony of one guard?
(hide spoiler)]Jakkin 17 p 14 risks everything -- freedom, dragon Heart's Blood, even his life -- to rescue beloved Akki who vanished months ago in rebel cell on former prison planet Austar IV.
If blood makes Jakkin and Akki "send" better, wouldn't those who splash themselves send better?
(hide spoiler)]Jakkin meets Three from rebel cell where Akki caught.
(view spoiler)[ Three's dying words "Help for" p 188 are Help Four; Akki is Four.
The first book of this trilogy was “Dragon’s blood” and the third book is “A sending of Dragons” which I have yet to finish reading.While Jakkin was helping Master Sarkkhan train his dragon for the fight in this major pit, Heart’s blood, Jakkin’s mighty dragon, had 5 great hatchlings.
Throughout this book the reader will realize that Jakkin’s bond with Heart’s blood grew so strong that this dragon will even risk her life, only to keep Jakkin safe.
The nursery where Jakkin grew fond of these dragons will be taken over by rebels, but someone, or maybe more like 5 someone will come join Jakkin in his great adventure.
The political tug-of-war between the anarchist rebels and the controlling Feds, while only seen in glimpses, felt realistic--and I like that Yolen doesn't come down on one side or the other, but shows both points of view as potentially sympathetic as well as dangerous.
The big twist with the mysterious package (view spoiler)[being a bomb that wipes out a city block and frames our heroes as terrorists (hide spoiler)] was satisfying, though I saw it coming a mile away.
That development looks likely to send the series in an entirely new direction.
Usually this doesn't pay off (just look at the Green Rider series, for instance) but it does work here in Jane Yolen's Pit Dragon Chronicles.
Yolen could have just done more of the same as in her acclaimed first book in the series but this twists about suddenly as if a plague of locusts descending on a farm.Things get really evil really quickly on Pit Dragon World.
Heart's Blood is a very clear mirror indeed.
There's also a nice nod to The Empire Strikes Back.I'm looking forward to the next book in the series.
As a dragon master, people start to treat him like a real master.
Later on, he would meet Akkin who travels with him to learn and survive from all the mythical and treacherous dangers approaching them.
Jakkin with his dragon, Heart Blood, travels over boulders to ultimately strengthen his dragons' attacks and tame it to the highest level possible.
This book depicts the efforts of how Jakkin and Akkin help each other during the cliffs-ever since running away from the orphanage they were once raised at.
Jakkin and Akkin also have to escape the dangers of the wild dragons.
When I saw the middle book for sale in the dollar bin at the Half-Price Books, I didn't think: I just rescued that bit of me that was still madly in love with the book.
And, despite the twenty or so intervening years - I don't regret it.YA sci-fi/fantasy, but long before romance in dystopia became the predominant feature of the genre, Heart's Blood is the tale of a dragon, her boy, and his girl, mixed up with a revolution and an evolution.
(My dystopia was better than yours, lol.)It does have a romance, but it's far from the most important feature of the story.
It’s been so long since I read this book but I wanted to jot down a potent reaction that has stayed with me from reading it.
This story falls into that category of sequel in which the author trades on the well-being of several established characters to up the ante on drama.
In so doing they remind us that to the extent part one ended with a “Happily Ever After” feeling, the sequel can’t help but be a downer.That being said, I found the ending of this book an interesting twist.
It wasn’t necessarily what I wanted, but I felt the author made an interesting choice for the protagonist’s fate.
So of course all he can think about is figuring out where she is.In all of this mess Jakkin meets Golden, a Federation member apparently trying to infiltrate the rebels in the city of Rokk.
He wants Jakkin to spy for him.
Jakkin is not sure what this entails but doesn't feel quite right about it.
But he'll do anything he needs to save Akki.On his journey's as a "spy," Jakkin meets many different people.
Will he ever find Akki?Jakkin is sure that all of this rebel activity is going to affect his life forever, but he's not sure how.
Yay for Heart's Blood!
I can't remember if Dragon's Blood had a sci-fi theme or not, because this book is definitely heavy on it in comparison!
I guess I’ll have to read Dragon's Blood again to find out, cause I don't exactly remember.
With the extra villainy drama, it really made the story interesting, and I was so sad when (MEGA HUGE SPOILER WARNING) (view spoiler)[THEY KILLED HEART'S BLOOD!
*CRIES BUCKETS OF WATER* Oddly enough, I was more sad than Jakkin when it happened.
Except for me, crying buckets of water.
