https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8456447-korn-l-esti
For the rest of 2012, I'm just going to quote this book instead of having conversations.
Dove si narra di baffuti controllori bulgari, strani giornalisti, eredità indesiderate, alberghi “distinti”… e molto altro ancoraKosztolányi è l’ennesimo tesoro che ho scoperto grazie ad Anobii (sospiro di nostalgia): leggendo le recensioni al suo Kornél Esti (se passate di là, andate a leggervi quelle di Anina e di Maxxam66) un paio d’anni fa ho deciso di acquistarlo.
Lui mi ha aspettata pazientemente sullo scaffale per tutto il tempo, ogni tanto lo prendevo in mano e gli davo una spolverata, poi lo riponevo al suo posto.
Non so: sono tredici storie che hanno in comune il protagonista, appunto, Kornél Esti.
I decided to call on him and revive our former friendship.Many times my eyes have slid over 'Fiume' where it raised a ?
in my necktop computer: Kornél Esti will henceforth be remembered as the book where I veered off into finding out the goods: was an independent free state which existed between 1920 and 1924.
(wiki sourced)Picture finding a 'friend' during those traumatic first days at school, and then years later, you decide to sit down and write a book with that friend, well that is, in a nutshell, what this book is about.
Kosztolanyi warns that the governing of life is exactly the problem and Esti will not be governed nor would he be much of a writer without a less chaotic mindset.
Those who have read the recently discovered work of Khrzizhanovsky will appreciate Kosztolanyi's ability to write around the concept of a great idea.
There are just so many elements to love about this work, Kosztolanyi has an epicurean passion about food and drink that seems common amongst the best Hungarian writers (Krudy, Banffy, Moricz, Orkeny, Zilahy, and Dery to name a few) and his Rabelaisean joy of life is present on every page.
Flabbergasted, I stared at these nightmare figures, who had certainly--either in my imagination or in real life--at one time lived and breathed, and were now black and dead and cold, like glowing embers after they've cooled, died down, and crumbled to ash.
When he is an adult and confronted with a weeping widow who knows of his written works, he tells her:"I am not a good man," Esti protested inwardly.
And he makes us wonder what our lives would be like if we all had a Kornel Esti.
I was drawn to the book by its alluring description: Crazy, funny and gorgeously dark, Kornél Esti sets into rollicking action a series of adventures about a man and his wicked dopplegänger, who breathes every forbidden idea of his childhood into his ear, and then reappears decades later.Sadly, I was disappointed.
Great introduction, but the book quickly degenerated into a series of what I found to be uneven short stories.
Were author Dezso Kosztolanyi still alive, I would suggest the sage acronym of KISS, which is ironic given more than one of the stories are about kisses.
But what I got instead was a sort of surreal Hungarian 'Seinfeld' with Dezso Kosztolagnyi and his alter ego Kornel Esti sitting eating soup and talking about well, nothing (though with slightly more emotional depth).
The writing on its own is worth the price of admission, many of Esti's short stories often are set on trains, trams or Budapest coffee houses with other writers and mischief makers, just hanging out.
One of the better stories has Esti on a train travelling through Romania having a conversation in a language he doesn't understand (a plot line which would have happily filled a half hour episode in 'Seinfeld).
With the progression of the pages of “Kornel Esti”; Kosztolanyi emphasizes a more stream-of-consciousness philosophical approach which desensitizes the narrative-feel of the novel but adds a considerable depth of thought to the reader.Noticeably, the concluding chapters of “Kornel Esti” are not only weaker than the former portions but also overall lack the magic that is expected per Kosztolanyi’s other novels.
Fans of Kosztolanyi’s novel come to expect a high-level of gripping written words from Deszo Kosztolanyi but “Kornel Esti” is one which is hit-or-miss based on the reader.
Era il mio maestro e io gli ero debitore della mia vita, come era in debito col diavolo chi gli aveva venduto l'anima.”
La conferma di un grande autoreIl libro contiene tredici racconti basati sulla figura di Kornél Esti, sorta di alter ego ribelle e politicamente scorretto dell'autore che, viene specificato all'inizio, è infatti nato nello stesso giorno ed alla stessa ora di Kornel.Alcuni racconti sono veramente strepitosi, venati di una ironia e di un cinismo che portano il lettore ad un amaro sogghigno.
Tutti i racconti sono comunque molto belli: gli ultimi virano verso un amaro ed anche cupo cinismo che riflette probabilmente la situazione sociale e personale che l'autore viveva nell'Ungheria degli anni '30.Accanto al romanzo 
This book is not a story it is an experience of life and death and everything in between. Surreal is one word to describe it. Full of wonderful words and quotes that I will endeavor to remember but probably will not. Kosztolanyi/Esti are they one person with two personalities or two people with one ?laugh out loud funny in parts deep and dark in others. I discovered Hungarian writers through Sandor Marai's exquisite Embers and I am going to devour many more by these fantastic authors.
El capítulo final resulta algo repentino – lo cual atribuyo a la peculiar organización del libro – pero aun así nos da la sensación de haber llegado a la última estación de un viaje en tren (una figura bastante presente en las memorias de Esti), sellando la obra como un todo.Kornél Esti – sorprendentemente – no es tan conocido como sus hermanas de autor Alondra y La cometa dorada, en las cuales aseguran que es posible leer a Dezső Kosztolányi en su mejor punto.
In Islam, we are told that every human has a djinn with them as a companion, known as a 'humzad'.
I don't know the reason as we didn't go into depth.
I'm sure you all know that djinns are tricksters and many enjoy mischief and so, reading this book reminded me of just that, Kornel playing that part in my head.
As the story unravels, we come to know that the narrator and Kornel parted ways a while ago.
The man is of a sensible mind whom you'll take as the 'good one' and Kornel being the complete opposite.
Everyone forgets.I want to become the sort of writer who knocks at the gates of existence and attempts the impossible.There was Kotra the playwright, who demanded pure literature on the stage, and wanted to put on the as yet unfinished drama Waiting for Death by his friend Géza, Géza who was sitting beside him, in which no people performed, only objects, and the key held a long and profound metaphysical discussion with the keyhole.He wasn't always certain who was who, but that didn't really matter, they themselves weren't sure who they were because their individuality, their characters, were taking shape right there and right then.
Very funny book.
It made me laugh out loud in class.
Some of the short stories are more boring than others and the prose (which might or might not be due to the translation) I did not like as much as I did with Skylark.
However, I can't give it less than five stars because the moments that Kosztolanyi did well he did really well - the combination of simple and humble style with the author's and characters' sincerity and passion for writing and living is very humbling and satisfying.Funniest story: the one with the president.Favorite story: there are too many..
(3.5) My first Hungarian literature!
I went into this not knowing what to expect; the first chapter was compelling but it ended up being something completely different.
The charm really lies with the short and sweet chapters, the ones that are a few pages.
I hope I remember these: the chapter with the most extraordinary hotel in the world, and the chapter about the thief who stole things from literature while translating books.
Objectively it’s a good piece of writing and maybe something to read if you like Hungarian literature or want something random to read.
What is it that makes Kosztolányi such a great writer?
Since I read Skylark ten years ago, I've been thinking on and off about an answer to this question.
After reading his last novel, I've come to the conclusion that the makeup of his genius is a complicate crafty recipe with many ingredients that need of an experienced palate to tell apart and cherish.
For starters, it's the irony that both, characters and situations, smoothly convey in their thoughts and development.
Because if your savior is also your gravedigger, there's no need to be too obsequious or disdainful to him.
Değişik, başlangıçta birbirleriyle pek de bir bağlantısı yok gibi görünen ama okuyucunun kendi bağlantısını kendisinin kurabileceği öykülerden oluşan bir kitap. Gecekuşu Kornelius anlatıcı yazarın altegosu gibi okunabilir. Özellikle beğendiğim öyküler oldu. Şu an kitabı okuması için bir arkadaşıma vermiş olduğumdan isimlerini sayamıyorum. Birinci öykü güzel, tren yolculuğu harika sonlara doğru birilerine yardım elini uzattığı öykü komik geldi. Güzel öyküler ama okurken kendimden bir parça bulamadım, bu anlamda kitaba dahil olmadan dışarıdan keyifle okudum.
The narrator is mild, quiet, peaceful and considerate whereas his doppelganger, Esti Kórnel is blatant, boastful and is fond on pulling pranks on whomever comes his way.The book starts with the nameless narrator reminiscing about the moments he shared with his doppelganger during their childhood and youth years.
He finally decides to go meet him after ten years out of touch.
They've both led very different lives but they'll decide to carry out a project together: the writing of a book that tells about the doppelganger's adventures all around Europe.
Patchy, at least in the middle where I felt it lulled a little, but this picaresque was definitely worthy of being resurrected in an English translation.
Kornel Esti is a lovable rogue, teller of tall tales, and holder of strong opinions.
It's little wonder that his creator Kosztolanyi (or perhaps Esti is the creator, Kosztolanyi the alter ego, who knows?) is considered one of the great Hungarian writers.
The thread holding this "novel" together is Esti's singular charisma, capable of conversing in languages he doesn't understand, defending the wisdom of narcoleptic men of power, and, in my favorite story, capable of telling the tale of a kleptomaniac translator.
This is my second Dezso book and I've really enjoyed both of them.
This is a lot looser and episodic than Skylark but is just as funny.
The book is told through the perspective of Dezso's alter ego, Esti Kornel, and details literary cafe life in Hungary around the turn of the century, as well as some detours in pre-war France and German.
It's a series of short stories, all of them whimsical and some of them quite funny.
I definitely recommend this author.
Hungarian literature is quickly becoming my favorite, and he was an influence on many of the best living Hungarian writers, like Peter Nadas and Laszlo Krasznahorkai.
Personajes excelentes (y no solo el protagonista, todos, literalmente todos, son muy bien conformados), prosa excelente (esa alternancia de reflexiones lógicas, humanas y hasta a veces cómicas fue y es una combinación exquisita). La única razón por la que no me explayo es porque ya son casi las once de la noche y tengo que dormir (estoy cansado), pero aun así no puedo dejar de alabar a este libro. Ahhhh, y las historias son redondas y extrañas a la vez. Excelente novela.
Each chapter can be taken as an individual entity. The character, if he is that, of Kornel Esti is a good teller of yarns. I especially adored the following chapters: 1) Where he decides to have a conversation in a language he doesn't know, and 2) The one where he first rants on how welcome his guest is, followed shortly by a fantastic diatribe when the guest has worn out his welcome.
I feel like I must have missed something or read this too fast or something. This just didn't do much for me. I was expecting something weird, and maybe I wasn't paying enough attention but this was pretty straightforward. For what it was, it's fine, but not something that will stay with me.
Presretna sam što je ovaj dragulj preveden na hrvatski. Malo sam puta u životu srela tako precizna i smislena zapažanja o ljudima i životu, a bez dociranja i bahatosti. Sve je upakirano u fini i (ne)malko zajedljivi humor, baš po mojoj mjeri.
Nagyon fontos könyv!
Amikor elolvastam az első fejezetet, fel is csillant a szemem: csak nem az ember dualitását korokon végigvezető művet tartok a kezemben, ahol megismerhetem egy kora huszadik századi magyar író vívódásait és értékrendjét?Hát nem.
Ehelyett kaptam összefüggéstelen, fejezetenként változó szereplőjű rövid történeteket, melyek közül egy-egy allegória, a többség viszont egyszerű anekdotának tűnik.
Olyan anekdotának, amit magát jópofa, világlátott embernek tartó, közönsége rivaldafényében tetszelegni szerető mesélő mondd el.
Nekem nem jött be a humor, a világlátottság inkább felszíneskedésnek tűnt, a tetszelgés pedig az egyes fejezetek túlírottsága adja.
Persze nekem is van ilyen ismerősöm, aki szeret mesélni csak azért, hogy figyeljenek rá.
Dag 3: tweede boek uit, want het waren minder dan 200 bladzijden die na de eerste 100 iets teveel uitnodigden tot afraffelen.
Dag 4 t/m 7: zeeen van tijd en ik heb alleen nog maar dit boek met korte verhalen die lezen als een trein.
Het was een gok, daar ik niet zo van de korte verhalen ben, maar wel een goede.
Favorieten zijn: Het Einde van de Wereld, Manuscript en De Verdwijning van Kálmán Kernel.
Maar voordat er meer gelezen gaat worden, ga ik eerst nog even verder met de Hongaarse tour via Peter Nadas - Einde van een Familieroman, en Attila Bartis - Rust.
A collection of scenes, both comical and delightful.
Chapter IV is likely the funniest thing I have ever read.
Chapter XII is the longest and most noble of them all.
Each chapter/scene can easily be understood as a moral tale of sorts, but are enjoyable slices of life, too.
Riddled throughout are wonderful sentences and quips; my favorite: “Esti sprawled on the shore every morning in his swimsuit and envied the lively company.
He could swim better than anyone there, but his imagination also functioned better than theirs.
The last chapter is appropriately capped by a veritable punchline of an idea.
The problem for me was the premise ; 'Kornel Esti chronicles the adventures of a man when his wicked scamp of an alter ego reappears decades later and they decide to write a book together'.
This is very misleading and until at least half way through the book, rather than rejoicing in the poetry of the writing, caused me to feel disappointed and a little cheated.
Its basically a collection of short stories about trains, coffee houses, Buda and Pest, writers and writing, the value of money and consequences of kindness, some naturalistic and others fantastical, at times a little tedious, at times humorous, and for what it lacked made up with some beautiful language and some very well formed observations
