https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8957.Tunnels_of_Blood
Which, I found equally enjoyable when I was a middle school girl first reading this series.
After two books of absolutely no love-interest, we finally see Darren Shan take an interest in girls as he meets and befriends Debbie.I remember my first time reading this (about 10 years ago) and literally looking away from the book, going, is that it?
I wasn't expecting some grand romantic arch...but I wanted a little something other than that this cardboard cutout.However, despite the romance, the plot of the book shines through.
The best in the series so far.  If you're a teenager and you haven't read these books you really should. There are no sparkling vampires, no boys and girls staring at each other across the school cafeteria. It’s just a book about blood sucking vampires. Just the way it should be! To read my review of the other books in this series, use the links below:  Book One: A Living Nightmare  Book Two: The Vampire's Assistant  Book Four: Vampire Mountain  Book Five: Trials of Death  Book Six: The Vampire
The best in the series so far. 
  If you're a teenager and you haven't read these books you really should. There are no sparkling vampires, no boys and girls staring at each other across the school cafeteria. It’s just a book about blood sucking vampires. Just the way it should be!
  To read my review of the other books in this series, use the links below:
  
      Book One: A Living Nightmare 
       Book Two: The Vampire's Assistant 
       Book Four: Vampire Mountain 
       Book Five: Trials of Death 
       Book Six: The Vampire Prince 
       Book Seven: Hunters of the Dusk
The third installment in the Darren Shan saga gets 3 stars, unlike the scores the previous ones got (2 stars) because the saga stepped up its game now (FINALLY) This one was written better (slightly), not as predictable, and all around more interesting. I'm pleased.
These books just keeps surprising me. I just love Darren so much asdjgfjfsdjfj My inner fanboy is breaking outSeriously though, this is the third book in the Saga Of Darren Shan and I absolutely LOVE these books. They are so fast-paced and so entertaining. I could not put this book down. Amazing plot, amazing characters (Mr Crepsley and Evra are so amazing just ahdshfsdghdsdasja) and amazingly written. Fans of the Percy Jackson series need to read these books NOW!
It had a solid story behind all the books and each character had a single book devoted to him/her so I could actually feel something for them when one of them died.The story goes on so slowly while the writer rushes the relationships between characters.
The relationship between Darren and Mr crepsley was so ridiculous that I just wanted to strangle them.
He was the coolest one.Even though I really feel like I'm wasting my time by reading this I can't help myself.
To better times that will never come back and I'm kinda clinging to them by reading the books that I wanted to read back then.

دارن، پسری که همه گمان می کنند مرده است، اما او دستیار شبحی به نام کرپسلی شده، و همراه دوستش ایورا، به شهر دیگری رفته است. آن دو فکر می کنند که جسدهای عجیبی که در گوشه و کنار یافته شده اند را آقای کرپسلی از پای درآورده، برای کشف حقیقت، آن ها خود را در تونل های زیر زمینی گرفتار می کنند.... ا. شربیانی
A fun quick read.
About the Book:About a year and a half has passed since Darren's last adventure.
After the meeting, Crepsley, Darren, and Evra leave the Cirque.
So the two boys start to follow Crepsley to whether he is the villain.Review:I honestly wasn't all to thrilled with this installment.
The main issue I had with this particular book was when they were following Crepsley.
It just seemed way to drawn out when it was obvious that (view spoiler)[Crepsley was not the one killing the humans.
(hide spoiler)]Beside that major issue, I felt about the same with this book as with the others in the series thus far.
Re-reading 7.5.17: Měním názor. Krvavé chodby jsou rozhodně lepší než takový Upírův pomocník. Debbie sice nesnáším, ale Sam je na tom u mě o fous hůř. Murlough je nepochopený génius a Evru bych si z fleku vzala (promiň, Kurdo, jsi až v dalším díle). A GAVNER!!! Jeden ze slabších dílů série - Murlough je sice skvělý a chytrý chlapec, no ne, ale oproti ostatním tomu maličko chybělo. Asi se už moc těším na Upíří horu. Evruška byl roztomilý jako obvykle a to jeho mučení se mi moc nelíbilo :/ A Debbie? No, nikdy jsem tu holku moc nemusela.

For some reason, that took me ages to get through. Also, why hasn't anyone questioned Darren's pirate costume?!
consistently solid series. wasnt my favorite out of the first three but I really liked the villain and how it introduced some new concepts to vampire lore.
Evra wanted to go, but he had to stay and take care of his snake, but then they just found someone else to take care of it.Conflict: (4-6 sentences)Mr. Crepsley was out most of his nights.
Evra saw what it looked like, and he knew it was a Vampaneze.Climax: (4-6 sentences)Mr. Crepsley told them that was Murlough, one of the main Vampaneze and he had been killing innocent people from where he grew up.
(7-10 sentences)A theme present in both Tunnels of Blood, and Romeo and Juliet is how devious people can be when they are fighting for something.
Darren seemed to have finally adjusted to the fact that he is a vampires assistant he's taking on the role more now, helping where he can at the cirque but then when they leave with Evera to go with them on an adventure they don't know much ago because Mr Crepsley is being quite secretive, going out at night without disclosing where he's going or what he's doing.
Darren seems a lot more confident in this book, in himself and in his role as a vampires assistant, he seems to have got closer with Evera whilst they were away from the cirque they seem almost like brothers rather than friends and when they're working together to track Mr Crepsley they're bouncing off each other and seem to share some banter.
Being that it is a little over two hundred pages, packs plenty of action within it's paper walls, and delivers outstanding suspenseful scenes filled with genuine drama, emotion, and powerful contradictions, it's a breeze to absorb, leaving you wanting even more at the end.While I did not like this one quite as much as the powerful, unforgettable second, this was still a more than worthy followup.
Darrens life is changing all the time, and for this novel the author has taken us a bit out of the circus world for awhile.
My favorite character in this book would have to be Evra, Darrens bestfriend.
My least favorite character is Mr.Crepsly.
The part that captivated my attention the most would be the part when Darren met this girl named Debbie that he met in the city and he started to like her a lot.She had asked him to give her a goodnight kiss when it was time to go, but he was scared.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes vampires and a good story.
I was glad that Evra featured more in this book, I really like him and think he might even be my favourite character, he has a certain charm about him and he bounces off Darren really well and the pair make reading a joy.Again there is a little bit of gore and of course blood in the book but not too much to handle, certainly not enough to put me off.
I can't wait to read the rest of this series, I need to know what becomes of Darren and Crepsley!
Darren,Evra and Mr. Crepsley decide to leave the Cirque Du Freak and go to Mr. Crepsley's hometown.T
Darren is out of the Cirque with Evra and Crepsley in a different town, but with Crepsley gone every night for no apparent reason, and bodies drained of blood turning up in a warehouse, Darren's unsure of Crepsley's involvement.First of all I adore Debbie and I'm said it ended like it did, but they're so CUTE!
Not just with Evra, who hangs out with him all the time in this book, and who is why Darren is willing to sacrifice so much, but with Crespley as well.
They've come a long way from Darren wanting to kill him to him fighting for him.
The setting changes to a more city-like place.
The vampire mentor of Darren is now very seclusive.
His snake-like friend is still there and now they act as if they are brothers.
They are free to explore the city on their own and meet other people.
The book is able to hide the true villain until the very end where the reader questions everything in that time.
The book makes you keep on asking questions and does not answer them for you, you must read to answer them yourself.
The story makes you wonder and keep you reading till the very end.
I'm reading the third book in English to improve my reading skills, and I'm involved in it!
This book series is the best that I've read before, and I sometimes forget that I'm reading in English.
It's hard for me to find certain books in English that I can enjoy with my current skills because my reading skills are not the same as my reading abilities in Japanese.
I think reading abilities relate to writing skills.
When we improve our reading skills, we can write better.
If you are interested in the book series, try to read them!
Newly endorsed by J.K. Rowling, this third book in the Cirque du Freak series follows the vampire's assistant Darren Shan and his Master Mr. Crepsley in an adventure under the streets of a nameless city that turns out to be Mr. Crepsley's old stomping grounds.
An altercation with an old nemesis follows when Darren's friend and traveling companion Evra the snake boy is kidnapped by a vampanese.Gorier than the other books, Tunnel of Blood also incorporates a love interest for Darren.
Darren makes an intriguingly sympathetic half vampire; readers will be pleased to discover the saga continues with a fourth title, especially since there are still loose ends from the first two books.
The fact that I've read this books a billion and one times, and can now read them out of order and still 110% understand them says a lot. There aren't many books I can reread as though it's the first time, but this entire series does that to me. I absolutely LOVE these books, every last one of them. I literally want to read them all again right now but I have other things (LIKE A 400+ LONG TBR) to get on with. Alas, it's time to read something else. But I'll come back Darren, I'll always come back.
This is the book which really opens up the twists and turns which are to come in the rest of the series.We move forward again, on from the Cirque and into the city. Here Darren continues to grow as a character and the evil within the series is really uncovered. A lot is found out or hinted at about the characters and the book universe meaning you will be picking up the next book in next to no time at all to see exactly what happens next.
Not my type of book
While the first book has not yet been equalled, this remains a good series. The books are short, but true page-turners. My only complaint is how Darren continues to go through each book with arrogant defiance against his mentor, often excessively whiny about it. This should be expected at least once, but it's growing old as a formula. I guardedly hope that this is a character's growing pain that will fade as the plot turns in upcoming books.
A much more enjoyable read than the vampires assistant.Darren is settling into being a half-vampire a lot more in this book but situations pull on his human side which he holds onto. I enjoyed the brief romantic encounter and the bitter sweet ending.
Didn't enjoy it as much as The Vampire's Assistant but as a hole, it was still enjoyable to read. Darren along with Evra and Mr Crepsley head to the city as a killer is let loose.
