https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817199.Maitreyi
*3.5 stars*It's tough to rate a book like this. Initially upon finishing it I rated it quite highly, but after I've had more time to think about the content, I felt much less compelled to do so.Bengal Nights was written by a European man in India (Calcutta in the 1930s), so I knew I was going to be shaking my head a lot. I expected racism, exotification, cultural ignorance and superiority, paternalism and simplification of the other, and I got all those:   "Once more I saw that it was civilized
Initially upon finishing it I rated it quite highly, but after I've had more time to think about the content, I felt much less compelled to do so.Bengal Nights was written by a European man in India (Calcutta in the 1930s), so I knew I was going to be shaking my head a lot.
It's the semi-autobiographical tale about a Romanian academic, Mírcea Elíade (in this book he is French and goes by the name, Alain) who travels to India for work.
Cinci steluţe pentru informaţiile despre cultura şi mentalitatea indiană deprinse şi -de asemenea!- pentru faptul că Eliade a fost sincer cu sine şi cu cititorul.
Deşi are resurse pentru a descrie iubirea (de citit "Nuntă în cer", un roman psihologic genial!), Eliade nu s-a proiectat pe sine ca un romantic înverşunat, ci ca un occidental care a poposit în India şi priveşte viaţa aşa cum a privit-o şi "acasă", deci niciun "Maitreyi e viaţa mea, aş muri fără dânsa...", ci doar o amintire plină de melancolie neagră.
The story-line was somehow good but I hated each and everyone in it: narrow-minded people who can only see things one way and no other, who only think of themselves and how something makes THEM look.
He's like every teenager out there, imagining "What would people think if I threw myself in the Gange?
Actually, I'm pretty generous in my opinions but this book was simply hateful.Yeah, yeah, great insight into 1930's India and all but you don't really have to read a novel if you want to know those things.PS: I'm sorry I'm so categorical and I'm sorry if you think I'm wrong.
Eliade este scriitorul meu roman preferat.
An absolutely fabulous love story beetwen different worlds, but essentialy the same...The atmoshere is fantastic...you can smell the parfurmes, can taste the flavours, can feel that delicate "sari"...can even think in that specific way..that Maitreyi is used to...Fabulous and sweet and touching!
După a doua încercare de a citi cartea i-am descoperit latura pasională, senzorială și în sfârșit sfâșietoare a iubirii. M-a zdruncinat, căci mi-e greu să renunț la iubiri puternice. A avut și momente în care păreau de necrezut vorbele, sentimentele dar raportate la trecutul celor doi și perioada respecitvă, parcă prind contur.
I feel pitty for the human race, for all the stupidity that it bears with so much pride and arrogance, for the immense amount of pain and suffering we put one another through each day, for all the superstitions you - not me, not anymore - live your lives by with so much credulity and zeal, for all the little differences that keep us from seeing our much more obvious things we have in common.It is pathetic but it also gives me this great impuls to do...
Awful :)Maitreyi is awful.Allan is OKish.
O carte frumoasă, dar prea zaharisită.Exotismul, misticismul şi puritatea acestui roman par să fie argumente care nu pot fi negate pentru ideea că dragostea există mai presus de orice altceva. Finalul deschis al romanul dă motiv de gândire oricărui cititor sceptic față de puterea iubirii……şi dacă n-ar fi decât o păcăleală a dragostei mele? De ce să cred? De unde să ştiu? Aş vrea să privesc ochii Maitreyiei…
Am nevoie de timp sa-mi adun gandurile.
Or maybe it is just my unconditional love for Eliade's literature.What I liked most about this book was that I could actually see the love growing in front of my eyes.
I am not going to give any spoilers, but the one thing I feel is that every ego died in that book and by the end it was all just a book of empty souls.Another thing that I find interesting is that this book is actually inspired by Mircea Eliade's personal experience in India and it has a lot of autobiography in it.And to conclude with, I recommend this book from all my heart, it is pure genius and it has some moments when you just want to melt because of the sweet things that have been happening around there.

cea mai tare poveste de dragoste citită până acum. cartea e vibrație pură.
Wow. Much to consider, and as Alain says early in the novel of his love for Maitreyi, he can't describe it, because describing it will somehow corrupt it, (paraphrased here).
I can't set the book down and talk about it yet.
But I'm so intrigued to imagine how this book is taught in Romanian high schools.
And I wonder if its companion piece, written 40 years later from the POV of Maitreyi is also taught.
It doesn't seem written in 1933, I can at least put that down on paper now.
I am very grateful for the gift of this book.
Unul din acele lucruri ce trebuie facute cat mai devreme in viata, desi poate ca unii nu reusesc niciodata sa iasa din ei nici macar pentru asa o scurta bucata de timp precum s-a dovedit a fi intreaga poveste cuprinsa in aceasta carte.
O frumoasa poveste despre contrasturi si o anumita iesire din sine prin adoptarea unei culturi total diferite si printr-o relationare neobisnuita si poate ca incredibil de instinctuala.
Povestea in sine e frumoasa...
si poate ca atrage mai mult in virtutea imposibiitatii lui de a se abandona, ori, altfel, cred ca ar fi fost vorba de basm.
Momentously racist / orientalist / makes me hate humanity, remembering that I once saw no problem with all the bizarre things Eliade writes / does to Indian culture in this book makes me want to hurt myself...
شیمی بین دو شخصیت اصلی نگرفته بود. یه ایده ی هرز رفته. در ضمن ترجمه شدیدا به ویرایش نیاز داره.
Totul merge încet și previzibil, ba sunt eroii în extaz, ba gîndesc la moarte și plîng, și tot așa pe tot parcursul istoriei, fără mare sens, scenariu și interes.
Se presupune că descrierea detaliată a emoțiilor și interacțiunii dintre acești 2 îndrăgostiți, necătînd de cît de ridicole sunt uneori, este destula pentru a capta interesul.
Păi, nu este.Apreciez calitatea cărții, dar nu mi-a trezit interesul.N-am citit mult, dar presupun că cam așa e toată cartea, luînd în considerație celelalte texte de același tip, pe care am avut plăcerea sau neplăcerea să le citesc.
Am crezut ca o tin minte din adolescenta, cand am citit-o prima data, dar nu mai tineam minte mare lucru in afara de faptul ca m-a marcat. Lucrul care m-a frapat acum a fost ca citind o carte, n-am putut niciodata sa plang cum plang la un film, indiferent cat de trista este cartea! Iar Maitreyi este pentru mine o carte trista, o iubire ideala. Aceasta carte o voi asocia mereu cu Adam si Eva si Cel mai iubit dintre pamanteni. Toate trei ocupa un loc special in sufletul meu.Recomandata la orice varsta, dar mai ales in adolescenta.
I didn't get bored, but that still doesn't qualify the story with much merit. As I see it, she opens her soul to him and he calls her primitive instead of listening. He understands (or does a good job pretending to) next to nothing about their culture and he leads her on/confuses her/uses her to his own liking and then dumps her and pretends to go through rehab.Well-written, but this one has friends in the final exam reading list if you're in for that kind of thing.
The novel is very well written, but unfortunately, despite a good understanding of the Indian culture, the author kept his Occidental view on the Indian world. Good knowledge, but bad insight. Eliade's other novels based on his Romanian background are far better.
It was probably the only book that I had to read for school so far and actually enjoyed.
It's an emotional book,sincere...I loved the way Eliade knew to reveal things in such way to make us feel the same way he felt.
Not on a huge scale, fortunately, but the fact that it still does is flabbergasting.As the love story develops, we make inroads into Indian philosophy, customs and habits.Mircea Eliade was a worldwide famous scholar, whose knowledge of the religions of the world gained him respect and is in evidence in this work.Maitreyi, the heroine of the story has a mentor, who is very old: Tagore.For quite some time, she had thought that she loves him, which is strange considering that she is only 16.
Încă de când începuse să o iubească pe Maitreyi, Allan încerca să îi găsească defecte pentru ca până la urmă în ciuda diferențelor rasiale, de religie, de origine să fie împreună.Din păcate aceste diferențe îi vor despărți, ei, venind din lumi diferite care vor rămâne așa până în zilele noastre.English review: This is one of the best Romanian books I've read, an impressive and interesting book.
Ever since he begun to love Maitreyi, Allan was trying to find her defects but eventually despite the differences in race, religion, origin they will be together.Unfortunately these differences will divide them, they were coming from different worlds which will remain so until nowadays.
Here's the plot: Allan is a fetishist pig that mystifies India, abuses his power as an older man and manipulates and inexperienced 16 year old to fall in love with him (and wishes she would get raped so that she could be only his after she's cast out by her family), gets jealous over everything (A TREE!!
HE GETS JEALOUS OF A F****G TREE), kisses her while she's crying and pushes him away, and basically spends the first half of the book thinking she's an "uneducated brute" because she's Indian.
I'm not going to translate that for the benefit of your eyeballs.Don't read this book.
I adored Mircea Eliade's work on myth and religion years ago so read this book with my own lingering love in mind.
Eliade writes about a young English engineer in love with an Indian girl.
The brilliance of the novel is that, despite the intense focus on love and pain, it teaches so much about India and Britain at the time in which it set (1930s).
Wonderful.
I am currently reading the 'reply' - a book written decades later by Eliade's lover, then a 16 year old girl.
What a love affair.
Have we lost great passion I wonder?
I first read it in my high school years as part of the Romanian literature curriculum and it was love at first page.
I had heard that the female protagonist of the book, Maitreyi, wrote herself a novel as a response to Eliade’s Maitreyi and Bengal Nights.
Some years later I got hold of her novel (‘It Does Not Die: A Romance’) and I started reading it in parallel with ‘Maitreyi’.
It is one of the rare instances in literature when two protagonists share the same story broken down in the same beautiful moments but seen from two different perspectives.
Awful. I completely hated it. Allen is so sexist, and arrogant, and annoying and Maitreyi is so childish and naive. The characters were so antipathetic. Maitreyi was crying all the time, but all the time and Allen was so cocky and such a coward. The love story was so dull, absolutely boring. A story about a forbidden love, but with no feelings. This lack of feelings was really sad and disappointing.
All i can say is WOW! This book really impressed me, and is definetely outstanding among the other literature that i should read for school.The story kept me under pressure,that from the half of the book, i couldn't put it down without reading till the end. The book reverses one's thoughts, beliefs and understanding about indian culture. The author shows in his work the depth of asian spirit and demonstrates the major differences of relationship aproach between european and asian people.
