https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113487.Street_Without_Joy
Street Without Joy tells the fascinating story of the post WW2 French in Indochina, their failures to understand or counter Vietnamese Communist forces and the eventual continuance of the same errors by the United States.Essentially, Fall posits that French (and later US) forces failed to understand the nature of the Vietnamese Communists' revolutionary war, their support among the local population and their ability to use neighboring countries (and eventually North Vietnam) as refuges.
Time and again French soldiers were told to hold posts to the last man against advancing Viet Minh forces.
'Street without joy' Explicit detailed account.Very informative but very dry. I keep on pushing myself, Read Ammara Read. Irrespective of the fact, it's hard for me but undoubtedly it's a brilliant book on French war.
The loss of support brought brought on by each innocent man or woman killed is likely to far outweigh the possible gain of hard-core rebels.” (This is actually a quotation by Fall from another book, but it’s to the author’s credit that he found and included it.)For casual readers (meaning, if you’re reading this for pleasure born from knowing things, but not studying it for a class), I especially recommend the chapters (4, 6, 8, and 10) labelled “Diary”, which are adapted from the letters Fall wrote home to his American wife while doing research in Southeast Asia.
This book and "The True Believer," were required reading when I went through the Special Forces Officer's Course at Ft. Bragg.
When I went to Vietnam, I saw much of what Dr. Fall was describing.
He spoke of the folly of the French when he said that they were trying to fight ideology with technology.
McNamara attempted to fight the NVA infiltration with electronic sensors.
The parts of the American effort that was successful was often suppressed or ignored by Washington.
This was particularly true of some of the better psychological warfare efforts.Are we making the same mistakes now in the Middle East?
His writing brought to light the hidebound French military leadership's failure to grasp the realities of counter-insurgency warfare.
In virtually every respect, French leadership ceded the initiative to General Giap and Ho Chi Minh - and you don't win by simply reacting to your enemy.
Street Without Joy drew lessons from the French debacle applicable to America's growing involvement in Indo-China; unfortunately Fall was a prophet without honor in his adopted country.
While a few forward-looking American officers appreciated the value of effective counter-insurgency warfare, conventional forces generals held sway in Saigon, Hawaii and Washington.
Episodic and written in the style of the time (frequent reference to "Reds" and "Communists") it is evident that Fall did not access to full U.S. government documents when he wrote the book.
It's an angry book because Fall is recounting where the French went wrong in their fight against the Viet-Minh, but Fall did not write an anti-war scree; it has definite political biases (anti-communist) and is intended to show how the Communists fight.
Fall's book is considered to be a modern military history classic because it brings the French era of the Vietnam War to life.
When her son, a lieutenant in the infantry, was transferred to Indochina, she enlisted in the PFAT to be near him and was assigned to Hanoi as director of the maternity hospital for army girls who’d gotten ‘into trouble.’ There weren’t too many of them, but in any case, the French Army had taken the realistic attitude that a girl, pregnant or not, still made a good radio operator or secretary-typist.
could be seen zooming through the streets of Hanoi on her white motor scooter, going briskly about her business while awaiting the next leave period of her son.
Bernard Fall's heartbreaking history of war in Vietnam - heartbreaking for at least three reasons: because of the failure of the French to honor the aspirations of the Vietnamese or to learn from their own mistakes; the failure of the U.S. government to learn from the experiences of the French; and the staggering amount of death, suffering and devastation visited on the Vietnamese people as a result.One story can stand in for a lot of this book's message.
An American unit was ambushed by the NVA on a highway that the French had nicknamed the Street Without Joy, because of the bloodshed there.
So much for learning from the experiences of others.
Many of this country's most respected political figures have noted Fall's absolute precision of the Vietnam War. In Colin Powell's 1995 Autobiography, My American Journey, he wrote: "I recently reread Bernard Fall's book on Vietnam, Street Without Joy. Fall makes painfully clear that we had almost no understanding of what we had gotten ourselves into.
Readers who appreciate contemporary history hazard a void in understanding if this book is not part of their library.As stated succinctly before, "The Americans knew they didn't know, and proceeded as if it didn't matter.
It was called, "Vincible Ignorance." Read this book.
The first third of the book was quite boring and old-fashioned - description of French army actions in Indochina with old diagrams reminded me of weird military dictionary. If I didnt happen to be patient reader, I would have probably closed the book after this part. Now I'm glad I did not. The middle part started to be finally interesting; I recommend especially all chapters entitled as "Diary". In this first-hand account, Fall proved to be a great and thoughtful observer. Many of his conclusio
The first third of the book was quite boring and old-fashioned - description of French army actions in Indochina with old diagrams reminded me of weird military dictionary.
If I didn´t happen to be patient reader, I would have probably closed the book after this part.
The middle part started to be finally interesting; I recommend especially all chapters entitled as "Diary".
Many of his conclusions are remarkably accurate, especially when one considers the limited access to information beyond the French ones.
The last chapters of the book clearly shows why the "Street Without Joy" is timeless work and why it´s still re-readed by generations of political experts.
Having been raised in Vietnam and now reading the book from the enemy's perspective, I found the whole episode vindictive of my firm belief in the inevitable roles of the whole Vietnamese Communist movement in 1945, as well as educational about tragedies that textbooks always fail to mention.
I also wonder how the political mood of the time changed because of such a warning: just like the French, the Americans were going to fail, miserably, in the Vietnam War. Deliberately detailed and incredibly thoughtful, this book is a must-read, even in 2012, or for many years later.
Fall traveled extensively thru Indochina reporting on the French war. He was killed during the Americanization of the Vietnam War as he continued to document the region.Why I started this book: I had a long flight so I downloaded several audio options. Why I finished it: Long flight back. I struggled with this title, mostly because I haven't studied the Vietnam War in detail to appreciate what a prophet Fall turned out to be.
Bernard draws on first hand experience and documentary research in Paris to describe the slow defeat of France in the "vast empty spaces" of Vietnam's jungle and highlands to the light infantry of the Viet Minh.Fall describes the complete failure of heavy mechanized units in guerrilla warfare.
(about 30% of the soldiers were French, with the rest split between Foreign Legion, Colonial units from Africa, and local levies) Communist tactics come down to 'screaming human wave attacks' a few too many times, without much insight into the actual weakness of light infantry forces.
Fall's book on the First Indochina War (France vs.
Revolutionary wars must have popular support; mere acts of violence are not sufficient.
This book certainly has implications for our current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, though I believe some reviewers have not put enough thought into the matter.
Late in 2006, the United States was effectively losing that conflict and large sections of Iraq were under AQ in Iraq's control.
The tactical considerations may be of less use for us civilians, but Fall's book should have been better studied prior to our involvement in Vietnam.
We did.Street Without Joy was written about the French miseries fighting the Viet Minh.
Why should we pay attention to someone who lost?
We lost an opportunity because of our arrogance.Starting at World War II the Viet Minh filled the power vacuum once the Japanese folded.
They were solidly in power when the French made their return to Indochina.
Meanwhile battles across the world were being lost to the communists.
The sanctuaries developed allowing the Viet Minh to hide and lick their wounds and frustrate their French antagonists.
The French were losing...and they knew it.
Their colonial venture was lost.
Not difficult to understand how a small colonial possession rises up to throw off the occupier.
I give this book 5 stars not because I enjoyed it, but because it did exactly as it said it would. It was supposed to be a classic on how the French got bogged down in Vietnam, and it certainly achieved that mission. It wasn’t written for me, though, but actual military planners and war tacticians. Crazy amount of details, but I suppose I should have known that and would prefer it to fluff.
Only slightly dated, Fall's account of the French war in Indochina remains informative and perceptive.
Following the Korean stalemate, Eisenhower introduced the 'domino principle' in explaining the escalation risk in Indochina, which to him had become part of the Cold War. Even before then, the capture of Hainan Island in 1950 prompted Truman to covertly authorize direct financial assistance to the French fighting their Indochina War. By 1961, the rise of the Berlin Wall, the loss of Laos and the fiasco of the Bay of Pigs made Kennedy paranoid, so he was the one who 'drew a line in the sand' at Vietnam.
It would seem the French and their colonial federation allies had already experienced the 'Street Without Joy' hopelessness of trying to fight a modern war in a country dominated by jungle and without any discernible infrastructure.
The chapters ("Diary") that dealt with the people involved were my favorites as it gave a human element to the enterprise-"Milk Run", "The Women", and "The Men" were delicate, compassionate, moving, perceptive, explorations of those intimately involved with the war.He took pains to develop the philosophy of both sides and proved it by descriptions of action.
"revolutionary/ideological war, the waste of lives, the inability to adjust to emerging philosophy, etc., etc., etc.
The same reason the French and Americans lost in Vietnam is exactly the same reason we will not prevail in Iran or Afghanistan--we prefer technology to ideology.
This is the starting point for the reader wanting to begin to understand the Post WWII conflict in Viet-Nam. Bernard Fall, a French journalist/scholar who would die during his continuing coverage of the Viet-Nam conflict writes a prophetic analysis of why the West would not ultimately be victorious in SE Asia.
Along with his book, Hell in a very small place, The Siege of Dien Bien Phu, Fall introduced the West to the one of the rebellious remnants of the French Empire.
Colin Powell commented that this book should have been read by American leadership before the escalation of American involvement in Vietnam.
The French war in Vietnam (Indochina) is not as well known, but no less important.
While I don't recommend this book as a primer on the conflict, it would serve well as a read after one has done previous research on the conflict..
largely because the geopolitical aspect of the conflict is absent from this book.
Nonetheless, it is a read that will make any student of Vietnam contemplate.
It was never truly employed on a wide scale by the American military and Dr. Fall was literally ignored by both the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations.
There were of course several officers in the U.S. Army and U.S. Marines that did take note of the effects of this book on how they handled the sphere of war within Indochina; two of these officers were Lt.Col. Hal Moore and General "Brute" Krulak.
A lot of Americans could have been saved further had the Administration of the time employed Dr. Fall for recommendations of procedure through the high and low country parts of Vietnam.
I read this book in May of 2009.
Having served in Vietnam (1969-70 - as did my older brother, Jon L. Wingo)I would have to say that Dr. Fall's book is a "must read" by anyone who served in Vietnam or had thoughts of serving there. That is, if one can stomach reading details accounts (from both sides)about the waves of humanity laid to waste there: the Japanese, the French, the Americans, the Viet Cong, and the Viet Minh alike. A determined scholar, Dr. Fall paid the ultimate price over his Vietnam-at-war obsession,the subject of his doctoral thesis. Heavy material, highly engrousing.
Quite simply one of the best books ever written about the Franco-Vietminh war. More than 50 years later, Fall's prose still retains and conveys the hopeless, desperate urgency of the doomed French struggle for empire in South East Asia.
It was very gut wrenching. Almost every lesson learned documented as to why the French military failed in Indochina is prophetic of what the American military experienced later in Vietnam.
Another Bernard Fall masterpiece
I first read “Street Without Joy” in the first half of 1969. Why is this fixated in my memory? Easy – it was a prescribed text during my conscripted officer training in the Australian Army when I was being prepared to lead an infantry platoon in Vietnam. (Fortunately my academic background sent me off to an Army computing installation in Melbourne!  ) However, Fall’s book stuck in my memory, so I decided to read it again. I am so glad I did. This is an amazing book, part academic treatise and pa
This became the Vietnam War. Although the book documents faithfully the military aspects of this war, its central thesis is the definition of what Fall calls “Revolutionary War” or RW.
He extracts lessons from the numerous French tragedies (including the hellish defeat of Dien Bien Phu), provides statistical summaries of French and Vietnamese casualties (which dwarfed US losses in the Korean War) and analyses in detail the tactics of the Viet Minh and the fact that political and military strategies are inextricably intertwined in RW.Throughout, Fall exhibits enormous compassion for combatants on both sides of the conflict.
I wish I had read this book before I spent 2-1/2 years in Vietnam.
In retirement I have done lots of reading.
Now I hear a lot about American Values.
Lie about Gulf of Tonkin and kill 4 million Vietnamese (not to mention 58 thousand Americans.) Lie about Granada, Panama, Guatemala, Nicargaua, El Salvador.
Lie about Iraq and kill a few million more.
And, now we elect a Congress and President who think the highest American value is a gated community and an exclusive golf club.
I wish I could do it again and at least I would be different.
Some of what you’ll find in this book is dated, much of it is familiar, but all of it is relevant to anyone who wants to better understand the French war in Indochina that largely set the stage for the United States’ own debacle in that same land.The accounts of daily life, both civilian and military, are as fascinating as the accounts of combat.
While the United States was fighting in Korea, French soldiers were waging war against the Vietminh.
The real core of this book is the tactical detail, the descriptions of close combat and daily life led by French soldiers and the Vietnamese themselves.
