https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54209.Ever_Since_Darwin
الكتاب عبارة عن ثمانية أبواب أو أبحاث، وكل باب يتكون من عدة فصولتناول الباب الأول داروين نفسه والحيث
Ever Since Darwin is a collection of essays drawn from Natural History magazine for which Gould wrote a monthly column entitled "This View of Life." While not especially easy reading, all the essays provide an intellectual delight that make them well worth the effort.
Gould explains better than I (read the essay entitled "Why should a fly eat its mother?;" but, basically it has to do with adaptability to environments which impose irregular catastrophic mortality (fairly common in nature,) or where food sources are hard to find but abundant when located.
بدأت قراءة الكتاب في طريق العودة من الكلية زهاء الثلاث سنوات، أنهيت حينها المقدمة وأول فصلين، وقررت أنه كتاب عظيم جدا، به ما به من إمتاع تاريخي وسد لثغرات كثيرة في فصول قصة التطور، ثم لم أفتحه مرة أخرى من حينها
If there's an overarching theme in these fascinating essays it's that scientists (and science) are just as vulnerable to political and social bias as everyone else, and we should be skeptical of claims that the scientific "facts" support a given political or social view.
It's as if the author seeks to bolster his well-meaning social ideals, not by finding support for them, but by arguing the fallibility of science proper.
And while it presents the reader with data and information about the various ideas floating around in the scientific community, it never asserts anything: the reader has to make their own conclusions.
Many people acknowledge Charles Darwin as the most brilliant scientist of all time.
For all purposes, all species on Earth had been created at a single moment in time by a divine entity.
More than a hundred years later, a lot of momentous events occurred: scientist discovered genetics, and fossil evidence was unearthed from the ground.
In addition to this topic, Dr. Gould touches upon some of the history behind evolution starting with Charles Darwin himself and ending with the way natural selection was used to justify various outrages points of view.One of the largest issues, in my opinion, that this book makes an effort to fight is racism and it in no sense of the word fails.
Dr. Gould uses a variety of information from the field of Biology to prove to the reader that scientifically humans are but one species and cannot be logically separated into different groups.All the way to the end, Dr. Gould’s “Ever Since Darwin” bombards the reader with information pertaining to evolution and ultimately shows her/him how far it’s come as a field.
Stephen J.
Gould was a treasure of a science writer, who left us far too early, in 2003.
Ever since I stumbled across his column in Natural History Magazine, I've been an avid Gould reader.
This is his first collection of the Natural History columns, and, although not as brilliant as his later works, contains the promise that emerged in The Panda's Thumb, The Flamingo's Smile, and others.
Even so, by itself, it is amazing.
Gould's work has definitely shaped my view of evolution and biology.
Many times I thought of sending him a copy of my fiction about how a society of sapient large cats might develop, but I waited until too late.
من جملة ما قرأت عن التطور:أضع هذا الكتاب في أعلى الكومة،أسلوب سلس و سهل،تدعمه موسوعية جولد التي طالت التاريخ و الهندسة و اللاهوت و السينما و الشعر،مع محتوى علمي دسم في قالب مسلي و ممتع،أعتقد أني سأبحث عن كتاب لجولد يشرح فيه مبادئ التطور لأوصي به كل راغب في التعرف على النظرية للمرة الأولى،أسجل أن أعجابي الأشد تركز على الفصول الأخيرة من الكتاب حيث الحديث عن دور الحجم في تطور الأنسان و كذلك قضايا الحتمية الوراثية.
It was a conversation stopper.Most fascinating in a sci fi way was his chapter on size, growth, and the increasing ratio of volume to surface size, and then takes you through the absurdities of some sci fi movies, like the giant ant movie Them and the tiny human movie, what, The Incredible Shrinking Man, and how many of the actions would be impossible.
Some of them are mentioned on his Wiki article.Another pretty fascinating chapter is on "life history strategies" - how some species, like some cicadas and bamboo have evolved to survive their predators by only reproducing in huge numbers in long primary-numbered years, such as 17 years for some cicadas, and 120 years (!)(ok, doesn't need to be primary) for a certain bamboo!
He only seems to like abusing science for political ends if they agree with his views.He detests any claims of biological determinism.
We have made our world and we can change it." This is true, and yet that does not mean there can't also be nature that tilts people in certain directions.
Knowing our genetic predispositions ahead of time allows us to change ourselves and our world for the better.He asks, "why are we so intrigued by hypotheses about innate disposition?
It's about understanding ourselves, not "fobbing off responsibility." If there is a biological component to violence, it would be useful to know that.
Gould is pithy. His understanding is deep enough that he can actually describe evolution to the reader. Not every scientist can move beyond teaching and the constraints of the university. Gould always seemed unbound. He is more similar to Darwin and his coworkers than most students have a right to expect. Reveling in blessed work is enjoyable.
The essays were written in the late 1970s, but they still feel current-- I especially enjoyed his meditations on the Irish Elk, the role of size in evolutionary development, and the shakeup caused by the discovery of plate tectonics in the late 1960s.
That whole series of essays is praiseworthy and impossible to disagree with, but in the age of Obama, it feels a little bit dated and strident.
And after reading ten essays where Gould assails the impact of conservative politics on science, even the most liberal reader has got to wonder: in what ways did Gould's own liberal bent bias his results?
قرأت الطبعة العربية للكتاب من إصدار مشروع كلمة.الكتاب يجمع مقالات متفرقة عن التطور.. الجميل فيه أنه يضيف معلومات تضفي تساؤلات جديدة حول آلية التطور.. فهناك مثلا حفريات لأنواع تظهر دون ترتيب تطوري منطقي و ظواهر بيولوجية لا تتبع النسق التطوري يحاول المؤلف تفسيرها.. المشكلة الوحيدة في الكتاب هي أنه كتب في السبعينات, مما يعني ان بعض تساؤلاته ربما أجيب عنها لاحقا في ظل التسارع الرهيب لعجلة البحث العلمي.لا تقرأ الكتاب باعتباره كتابا عن التطور, بل باعتباره كتابا يقدم لك ثقافة علمية بيولوجية بطريقة شيقة تدعو للتفكير
Simply divided, this book makes out of a broad and complex topic (evolutionary science) an entertaining and accessible subject.Some articles are more interesting than others, an unavoidable imbalance for such a collection but, all in all it's clever, very well written, witty at times and, always relevant.As this was my first Stephen Jay Gould, I would particularly recommend it to whose not knowing where to start with such a prolific writer.
Stephen Jay Gould is my favorite writer in any branch of science. He writes beautifully (loves words) and can explain anthropology to the layperson. Gould is one of the best people to correctly explain Darwin. The majority of writers who try to explain evolution, don't have a clue what they are talking about. If you are interested in this topic read all of his books. Sadly he is no longer with us, but his books live on.
a lot... makes science very enjoyable and readable without dumbing it down one bit, but just by eliminating jargon. puts science in its social context, and ties it in with other fields of life and learning. also compares general phenomenon in evolution as a system to other types of systems.. .. .Must read one of his books!
Rather, it is an opportunity to discuss some ideas that stuck with me while reading “Ever Since Darwin” by Stephan Jay Gould.”The Debate Should Be OverDuring the 2012 Republican Party Primary run, a debate was held where the nominees were asked to raise their hands if they believed in the theory of evolution.
This keeps it from being widely accepted.Legacy of Debate One of my favorite quotes from this book is the following:"As the new Darwinian orthodoxy swept through Europe, its most brilliant opponent, the aging embryologist Karl Ernst von Baer, remarked with bitter irony that every triumphant theory passes through three stages: first it is dismissed as untrue; then it is rejected as contrary to religion; finally, it is accepted as dogma and each scientist claims that he long appreciated its truth." -Stephen Jay GouldThe theory of evolution unleashed debate across the world.
In essay number 6, ‘ Bushes and Ladders in Human Evolution’, Gould rejects the “ladder” representation of the human evolution from 'Australopithecus africanus' to 'Homo sapiens' introducing the “bush metaphor” saying that species did not “morphed” into the next one but rather “overlapped in time”-“In this paradigm, speciation – the formation of new species – occurs by branching off from the ancestral stock, while the ancestors continue on.
Another possibility, Gould suggests, is that they were used against rivals in “ritual combat” rather than literal combat; … In either case, we cannot dismiss the possibility that the antlers drove the size of the deer, rather than vice versa”
Unlike some of the reviewers sharing the rating I have given this book, my problem is not Gould's alleged liberal humanistic standpoint.
However here Gould too often himself remains less critically analytical than he should, and still too easily retreats to commitment to the "just so story".
Sometimes he seems to be bringing on critical analysis as a pawn to allow him to retreat to his own commitment.
As is usually the case with evolutionary theory and Darwin especially, trying to build a science on the text of one man is always is danger of being snared by quasi-religious attitudes, and one sees it here even in Gould's tentative writing.
"But a man does not attain the status of Galileo merely because he is persecuted; he must also be right." Gould's excellent prose and combined essays warn of hubris. Research and conclusions can be tainted by ideology. He reminds us to be aware of our biases and assumptions when crafting studies and interpreting data. Also, a reminder that we are part of the animal kingdom. This collection of essays is well worth your time."The hallmark of humanity is not only our mental capacity but also our mental flexibility. We have made our world and we can change it."
science delivered by journalism; not shy about reflexive insights on the conduct and history of science and social commentary (there are attacks on racism, there was citations on engels re: questioning the naturalized supremacy of the mind); data presented not in the typecast dry way of science (cicadas reproduce every 13 and 17 years para di sumabay sa reproduction ng kanilang predators), for the majority of the existence of life, prokaryotic organisms lang ang meron).
What I found most valuable about this book was Gould's careful (and sometimes irritated) explanations of evolution, what it does and doesn't do. I realized that even people who deny evolution should read it so that they at least understand what the evolution is that they reject, because common assumptions people make about evolution are not right at all.
يتناول #كتاب #منذ_زمن_داروين أصل الكائنات الحية ونظريات التطور في التاريخ المعاصر منذ داروين حتى الآن، وتركز فصوله على مختلف التأويلات لتاريخ الأرض. ويتسم هذا الكتاب بالأسلوب السلس والعلمي في آن واحد، فالكاتب يسرد الموضوع بطريقة حكائية مما يجذب القارئ ويشوقه لقراءته.
‏يتناول ⁧‫#كتاب‬⁩ ⁧‫#منذ_زمن_داروين‬⁩ أصل الكائنات الحية ونظريات التطور في التاريخ المعاصر منذ داروين حتى الآن، وتركز فصوله على مختلف التأويلات لتاريخ الأرض. ويتسم هذا الكتاب بالأسلوب السلس والعلمي في آن واحد، فالكاتب يسرد الموضوع بطريقة حكائية مما يجذب القارئ ويشوقه لقراءته.
Raccolta di saggi molto interessante. Il filo conduttore è Darwin, ma si spazia su vari argomenti e sfaccettature della teoria della selezione naturale.Lo stile di Gould ti dà quasi l'impressione di essere presente davanti a lui per una chiacchierata.Molto consigliato.
There are always things that are nice but you don't really like them.
I found one of SJ Gould's collection of commentaries that I had not already read, great read even forty years after the fact
Some essays were more compelling than others, but overall a great - and important - read for anyone interested in evolution or - more generally - natural history.
Outstanding!!
This is the first volume of Gould's essays, reprinted from Natural History magazine in the days before the publication became little more than a shell of its former glory.
Gould was, to my mind, a polymath.
These essays may have slightly dated by now -- I read them nearly twenty-five years ago -- but this teacher's command of the language and skill in rational argument should make him required reading whether he's current or not.
Good writing -- great writing -- should never go out of fashion.
Just thinking about this book makes me feel as though I should read it again.
All in all there are 33 essays included on a diversity of sub-topics involving the theory of evolution, though certainly some points are repeated as one would expect when dealing with individual essays on a related subject.Stephen Jay Gould’s writing is easy to read, and these essays are targeted to people interested in science, but you don’t have to be a scientist to understand them by any means.
That being said, I think the essays in this book still offer a wonderful place for those who are interested in the subject to get a good understanding of the subject and the theory.
