https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30002.The_Dain_Curse
The Dain Curse by Dashiell Hammett, father of the modern crime novel, is not only an action-packed tale of misdeeds and murder, but a study of 1920s American culture and society.
Within the novel’s pages, here is a sampling of what a reader will encounter:First-Person Hard Boiled NarratorThe unnamed Continental Op detective tells the tale in crisp, exacting language as he describes the people and places and situations he encounters.
Here's a better look at the 1966 Penguin mass-market paperback I have. Sets a totally different tone compared to other editions I've seen.
I'll save mine till after you've spoken your piece, so yours won't be twisted to fit mine."In “The Dain Curse” by Dashiell Hammett"'Are you -- who make your living snooping -- sneering at my curiosity about people and my attempts to satisfy it?''We're different...I do mine with the object of putting people in jail, and I get paid for it, though not as much as I should.''That's not different...I do mine with the object of putting people in books, and I get paid for it, though not as much as I should.'"In “The Dain Curse” by Dashiell Hammett
In The Dain Curse, the Op's racism is just taken for granted, and the vulgarity and violence of its expression (as when he instructs another operative to rough up "the mulatto" in order to scare her) is just supposed to be part of what makes him hardboiled.Maybe reading old crime novels isn't the most responsible way to learn social history, but it is one of the most fun.
In addition to showing multi-ethnic 1920s California with all its unpleasantness and white supremacy, this book -- like all twentieth-century crime fiction -- is fascinating for the contrast it illustrates between privacy now and then.
The Op has to recover not only the diamonds but also the young woman's wits.Hammett's plain, terse style creates an air of verisimilitude in the first few chapters.
But Hemingway got away with this type of writing because he was interested in creating characters, and he understood understatement.
Hammett works with stick figures and tries to counterbalance his spare prose with bizarre and over-the-top twists and turns in the plot.
You'd think Hammett was about to move on to another genre and was cleaning out the ice box.So read The Dain Curse as pure pulp fiction, the kind that sticks in your teeth.
The fact that both the Op and Fitzstephan are obviously aspects of Hammett himself makes it even weirder.The only one of his novels that was not a smash hit with critics, it sadly led him to abandon the Op forever, Hammett no longer believing that a series character would be taken seriously as literature.
Prohibition might be the only thing that has really receded into the past, though I liked that he touched on the idea of moral degeneracy showing as a physical thing, identifiable by physical features – a concept that pops up in true crime cases around the turn of the century and also appears in quite a lot of late Victorian horror writing.
(Hammett references Arthur Machen in the text and I felt his influence could be seen both in this concept and in the piece of horror writing in the middle of the book.) Another touch I enjoyed is Hammett’s inclusion of a character who is a novelist, which gives him the chance to include some humorously self-deprecating dialogue...
I won't go into plot (if that's what you want, then click here), but I will say that here's something very positive to be said about these old novels; this one was written in 1928 and still has a lot of power to entertain.
The Dain Curse is twisty, and lots of people die in this story before the killer is discovered, making the crime portion of this book good reading.
It isn't as hardboiled as I would have imagined, after reading some of his later novels, but this work was written still quite early in Hammett's career.
Thank you, Hammett!
There's now no longer any doubt in my mind that this man was a master of detective fiction.
Gabrielle Leggett is an endearing character who originally I thought was just another femme fatale who has a strong taste for morphine and cults...
but this is only on the surface.
After about 70 pages I thought I had everything figured out and that this long and tangled crime thriller was simple and direct.
The Continental Op is a tough detective and no 'sentimental sap' he is a character who functions purely on logic and facts.
The last three books I reviewed were a little heavy on the brain so I decided to read something purely for fun.
Our guy meets Gabrielle, a beautiful young woman with an addiction for the occult and morphine, and suddenly it’s like this straitlaced book decided to drop a couple hits of acid and fill body bags like Christmas stockings.The plot gets crazy.
Hammett pushes the story to the point of disintegration then pulls it off incredibly every time.
It’s sort of a hybrid between vintage crime and pulp.
Hammett is better known for his work, The Maltese Falcon.
When I tried to read this in my mid twenties, I decided I didn't like it, and stopped.
When I read it at, like, thirty-one, I thought I really loved it (I was going through a Continental Op hysteria - hey, he's short, fat, forty and nameless - dreamy - but, truly, the pulp hero's humble unattractiveness charms me).
This time, I didn't love it so much.
The Dain Curse was serialized in Black Mask in 1928-29, and I guess it's obvious.
Part three is almost great, I guess.
This book suffers by comparison to Hammett's other novels.
The plot goes on and on like a shaggy dog joke.
First it's a ghost story, then a detective mystery, then it's a running gag.
This is a short novel, but it took me longer to read than anything Hammett has written, just because I kept losing interest because the detective kept losing interest as well.
It's a Hammett novel, so the writing is good, but the plot is almost episodic.
This would work better as a miniseries than as a novel.There is so much better Hammett out there.
This is not the most convincing Hammett story, the plot structure is not what you expect of him but The Continental Op's thoughts, mindset, the way he works more like a police detective chasing information, doing mostly legwork is Hammett at his most natural style of writing PI stories. The character is a gem more fascinating than masterwork novels.I enjoyed this very much, its real flaw is that it's not The Red Harvest, not that great, brilliance of prose style, story but most crime novels are weak in comparison to The Red Harvest too.
I didn't understand this book. It was bizarre enough to keep me reading but it never seemed like a sequential story. It seemed more like a series of scenarios with plausible or outlandish conclusions that just kept switching like a series of slides on a slide projector. The author may be "the best of the tough school of crime writing" but I am not interested in reading him again.
Both are working to find a pattern of unity and order amidst a series of seemingly chaotic events, and both are seeking to find a narrative that has a resolution of some sort, not necessarily tidy but complete.In the crime story, the murderer too is a kind of author who plans a story and carries it to fruition.
The death of so many of the family and protectors of Gabrielle may indeed seem like the result of a curse, but as the Operative points out, he himself survives the supposed curse, and, as it turns out, the murders have all been engineered by someone else.The other supernatural section of the book involves Gabrielle’s stay at The Temple, run by a seemingly respectable religious cult.
"It's the first one I ever ran across that did."Despite The Op's (and Hammett's) level-headed dismissal of such stuff, The Dain Curse still manages to pile on a cult, phantoms, possession, men incapable of being stopped by bullets, and crazed backstories before finally settling in to an extended third act that's almost like Red Harvest in miniature, where The Op has to quickly suss out the shifting allegiances and true motives of the members of a small town, any of whom could be the murderer of Gabrielle's husband.
This is a great hard-boiled story.
I really enjoyed the read - the Continental Op deals with a true femme fatale here, and it is classic hard-boiled.
Purists will no doubt continue to assert that Hammett is the master of the sub-genre, but I will continue to disagree.
I find Chandler and Macdonald more pithy and succinct.
By comparison, sections of this novel were a little wordy.
Nonetheless, a great read, and it is always fascinating to go back to the originator of the hard-boiled sub-genre.
Reading this one, you can really appreciate where Chandler and Macdonald got their influences from.
The Dain Curse is my second excursion with the Continental Op. I read Red Harvest about a year ago and really enjoyed it.
While there were similar gangster-like elements, the overall plot structure was fairly different.The Dain Curse plot is, at its heart, what you might expect from a robbery/murder mystery story.
As a result, the wrap up took a long time to get out and part of me wanted to skip past it, while the other part wanted to make sure I understood everything.While not as action packed as the gangster hunting events of Red Harvest, the mystery and intrigue level of The Dain Curse were taken up a notch.
The theft turns out to be an inside job, and the Op uncovers a sordid family history, a past of murder and betrayal that devolves upon the hapless daughter.
She is abducted by a murderous cult who use gas and illusions to bend people to their will, but no sooner is she rescued by the Op than her husband is killed on their honeymoon.It’s hard-boiled noir, with a total of twelve corpses unless I’m forgetting someone, six of whom are attributable to the mastermind behind the apparently inexplicable and unrelated series of horrible events that plague the poor girl.
Una posible maldición es el hilo conductor de una novela que es ciertamente curiosa en su concepción (tres partes diferenciadas en tres escenarios distintos y delirantes de gran encanto pulp) que demuestran, una vez más, la capacidad del genio para crear tramas enrevesadas y dar posibles soluciones distintas en cada uno de las partes. Lees a Hammett, lees a algunos autores contemporáneos y se te cae el alma a los pies…
Continental Op has been an operative who have excelled in operating in the grayer areas of human psyche. But, even after taking his "experiences" in such areas & aspects into account, this was one of the most convoluted mysteries that I had ever read. Later, such apparently disconnected & disparate mysteries would gel together into forming one jaw-dropping mystery in the hands of another master, Ross MacDonald. But this novel IS difficult, but classic read. Recommended.
This book is a mess. Just when I thought I had reached the end of the mystery Dashiell Hammett kicked off another crazy story arc with a flashback to psychological child abuse and a daring prison escape or a flash forward to a profit-based San Francisco religious cult or an eloping morphine addict. Too much. He sure broke a lot of new ground, though.
Forgot to mark this as finished! I love everything the Continental Op does, but I must admit this one had me guessing. Every time I thought he had it wrapped up it turned out there was another...twist? Chapter? I don't even know what to call it. Strange book, but much love as always for his writing.
But Mr. Hammet manages to start each part off afresh and take the story deeper into the depths of a seriously sick mind.There were so many twists and turns to this novel, that I was taken in and was as surprised at the ending.
There is an element of psychology weaving through the whole thing, along with drug abuse and pure and simple human lust.This is my second Dashiell Hammett story, having read The Red Harvest last year and I am looking forward to his most famous novel waiting in the wings, The Maltese Falcon.
I found the plot a bit far fetched and intricate to the point where it was hard to follow. Admittedly, this is my first foray into the genre so perhaps I am not the best judge of this work, and suspect I would have rated it higher with a deeper appreciation of detective thrillers. Given that, devotees of detective yarns might find this book right up their alley. The writing is smooth and the main character development excellent, a clear indicator of Mr. Hammett’s talents.
This is where it all starts, the hard boiled, nameless op. I found it interesting that he was emotionally stoic and fascinating that the times were as racist as Hammett portrayed.
Complex, of the period somewhat, and Hammett.
Těžko to považovat za hendikep, jelikož právě geniální kynickou recyklací literární strusky přivedl Hammett na svět nový a svébytný žánr hardboiled school.
Zatím jakoby jen z barvitých kulis nebo zpoza nakloněných střech vykoukl nový typ detektiva s ostrým a osobitým pohledem, jeho pohled však ještě není náš, nelze mu propadnout, protože je příliš veden dramatickou stavbou namísto toho, aby ji sám budoval.
Čtenář detektivek by po něm měl sáhnout jako po originálním, nezaměnitelném, kvalitním autorovi, ne jen proto aby si doplnil oblíbený šuplík v kartotéce či jej mohl porovnávat s jeho následovníky.
Ωστόσο, είναι, ίσως, το πιο πρωτότυπο και λιγότερο hard-boiled βιβλίο του Χάμετ, όπου ο συγγραφέας πειραματίζεται με το είδος του αστυνομικού μυθιστορήματος μυστηρίου (1928-1929).Επηρρεασμένος από το έντονο ενδιαφέρον του κόσμου, εκείνη την εποχή, για την παραψυχολογία, τη μεταφυσική, τον υπνωτισμό και τις παραθρησκευτικές οργανώσεις, επιχειρεί να τα ξεσκεπάσει και να τα αποδομήσει σε αυτό το άνισο μυθιστόρημα, εκβιάζοντας τα γεγονότα και δημιουργώντας ένα πλασματικό 'πέπλο' μυστηρίου το οποίο, δύσκολα, μπορεί να περιέχει αληθοφάνεια.Το μυθιστόρημα χωρίζεται σε 3 μέρη: 1) 'Oι Ντέην' (είναι και το καλύτερο και πιο αληθοφανές), 2) 'Ο Ναός' (είναι το πιο χαοτικό), και 3) 'Κουεσάντα' (το πρώτο μέρος είναι αρκετα ατμοσφαιρικό, το δεύτερο είναι αρκετά υπερβολικό και παραφορτωμένο).
The twists in this novel are very well thought out, and I had no suspicion until the end of who the actual mastermind of the crimes was- although he was in front of me the entire time.The characters were interesting and unpredictable, with many supposed good characters turning out to be villainous and the other way around.
The hardboiled detective is, of course, by now nothing original, but Hammett's novels were some of the first appearances of this by now widely known style of character, although probably less relatable than other incarnations of the cynical detective- although I will have to wait until I read some more hardboiled novels to find out.
