https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852606.Jacob_s_Hands
As for a moral or message of the story, the prevalent ones were ambition corrupts/is evil, naiveté and ignorance/innocence are desirable traits despite the vulnerability that they create and that a physical body cannot heal if the soul that it contains is corrupt.
Overall, the story is dated and predictable, with flat characters with traits that I found tiresome (even in a fable, which are always essentially about good vs evil people), flouting a predictable moral/message about how innocence is a virtue and ambition and knowledge is terribly corrupting.
Bei "Jakob der Heiler" erwecken Aldous Huxley und Christopher Isherwood diese Erwartungen.Die Hauptfigur des Buches ist jener titelgebende Jakob, der die Gabe des Heilens besitzt.
Gerade als Sharon und Jakob beschlossen haben, Los Angeles zu verlassen und gemeinsam aufs Land zu ziehen, bittet George, ein Freund Jakobs, für den Sohn seiner Arbeitgeberin um Hilfe.
Zwar werden Zacconi und Waldo von der Familie Medwin großzügig abgefunden, und ziehen sich daraufhin zurück, doch die Auswirkungen des medwinschen Reichtums lenken sowohl Jakobs als auch Sharons Leben in vollkommen neue Bahnen."Jakob der Heiler" wird im Untertitel als "Eine Originaldrehbuchvorlage" kategorisiert.
He was then living in Hollywood and “Jacob’s Hands” came about as he collaborated with Christopher Isherwood, who also wanted to make the book into a screen play.
The story is about Jacob Ericson, a humble, simple man who works for Professor Carter and his crippled daughter, as a ranch hand in the Mojave Desert.
Jacob is an honorable and good man and he is first noticed by his employer when he heals a dying calf with his hands.
He heals his employers young crippled daughter, Sharon, who he is infatuated with and he then follows her to Los Angeles where she pursues a career as an entertainer.
More therapeutic and 'natural' medicines that also consider the spiritual side of healing are still in practice and this makes me think of the lack of respect and acceptability of these methods (in 'western medicine') simply because 'western research' has yet to validate them.
And so, the stress on these components as integral to holistic healing practices is still timely.I could not find the time this was originally written, but assuming it was done so sometime in the mid to late 1930s/40s?, this book is fitting to the socio-economic context that it was written in.
This isn't exactly a polished, finished novel; more a screenplay waiting to be formed into something more concrete, so it would be silly to expect anything more.
This gives it a laid back, conversational feel, and it's charming in itself.The characters aren't exactly original, but more stereotypes of the simple-but-noble healer, the honest black man, the avaricious or controlling parent (in both Sharon's family and Earl's mother), and, in Sharon and Earl, the child who has been damaged by their parent and grows up incapable of interacting healthily with the world.
This is supposedly a collaboration between Huxley and Isherwood, though I suspect that Huxley's widow did a good deal of cleaning up and filling in blanks.
I will say that the prologue and epilogue for once are integral to the novel in both meaning and plot.
I did find, however, the plot to be a tad predictable.
This, as I just wrote, is somewhat alleviated by the novel's form.
I bought this novel because I'd recently seen a wondrous rendition of Cabaret in Tuscaloosa.
Isherwood's Berlin Stories served as the germ for that musical.


The fortune of healing doesn't always return the intentions of the giver. In the book at hand, we find the main character struggle through life deeply caring, loving, and giving. To his dismay, his gift of healing doesn't give him the results he integrally wanted. the fillip for these actions is out of compassion, reciprocity for his grace is unreturned at best. Although it's a short book, you may be tempted quit it. Finish to the end, you'll find the closure comforting...and convicting.
I went into this expected much more than I got out of it. started off well but then it took turn into the over used love story of where you know from the get go can never truly work out. I picked up this book to read more about the healing powers of Jacobs hands and the effect it had on those healed but was disappointed in the limited focus on that aspect vs the love angle.
Eine sehr schöne Geschichte, welche den Menschen über sein eigenen Verhalten zum Nachdenken bringt.
aldous huxley tells a decent story here.
there's always something to think about and to wait for in his writing, and this book is no exception.
easy reading for a lazy summer afternoon, the book includes a reluctant yet insightful healer, clandestine lovers, and a mother who loves by controlling her son.
giving (of talents, of skills, of good health) not expecting payment and more importantly knowing the danger in which money imprisons gifts and the people who yearn for fame and wealth.
thank goodness for reminders.
an odd word to choose, i know ...
but it did seem more alive than when i had previously read the story
Not I at least.In addition to that initial weirdness, the story goes that this fable was found in a trunk by Sharon Stone in the late nineties.
Yes, that Sharon Stone.
Weird.Jacob works on a ranch in the desert for a snippy professor and the professor's physically impaired daughter, coincidentally named Sharon.
Jacob discovers he has this gift with his hands (no, not that gift) in which he is able to heal sick or injured animals.
Word gets out and soon Jacob is having to heal everyone and he totally gets down by all the exploitation.I guess the moral of the story is keep your damn hands to yourself.
An esoteric story about the mind-body connection and where healing truly takes place.
What would be the moral responsibility of someone who had the gift of healing?
Or what happens if after healing the person life takes a turn for the worst and would have been better off having not been healed.
Or as the protagonist says at the end of the book "what good is healing the body when you can't heal the soul?" Apparently Huxley wrote this at a time when he was fascinated with the whole concept and art of healing and some of the ideas around it troubled him.
Brilliant script about Jacob, the healer, who is reluctant to use his capacity on human beings and chooses to heal animals instead.
In the past he helped a young woman so that she could walk and dance, and in the course he healed a wealthy but mortally ill young man, the woman chose as her husband.
They became famous and were corrupted by their money till in the end they thought they could even buy Jacob's service.
He felt sorry for the couple, but when he tried to use his powers under their corruptive influence, he failed.
Bitterness followed and Jakob chose to withdraw from the world of man.
Ugh. I'm coming to the conclusion that maybe I just don't like late-career Huxley (although I don't actually know if this qualifies as "late-career" for him).
I can sympathize with the idea behind this book, but the execution...I don't know.
I guess I prefer my Big Ideas either stated straight out in essay form, or woven into a more complex story with more moral ambiguity.
Maybe I'm just not crazy about the fable form.Maybe I should be more generous with this one--it's really more of a short story than a novel.
Ahhh! This book is amazing to me. It pulled me in. I was bummed at the end, but I think that it was still appropriate. I loved Jacob's character and how he stuck to his beliefs and dreams. He was the OG. Also, I loved how he loved truly and was considerate. Of course the allusion to Christianity and Jesus is prominent. It worked for me. This fable also reminds me a lot of The Green Mile by Stephen King. This book is another wonderful book co-written by Huxley that you should pick up.
A good story overall. The characters were well developed and the book generated some good internal questions...such as if you heal the body, but don't heal the soul, what is the result? And is it better not to heal the body if the soul is imperfect and the body won't be used for good but will be squandered for selfish purposes? What is the best decision for mankind?
Audiobook..........This is a lovely story about the torment of having the gift of healing, yet struggling with people's seemingly never ending desire to take advantage of it. It also addresses the distinction and connection of mind and body healing. Jacob is a truly memorable character with very Christ-like attributes. Simple and profound.....great combination!
IncipitUn’auto viaggia lungo una delle strade che attraversano il deserto del Mojave, costeggiando le pendici dei monti San Gabriel......Le mani di Jacob incipitmania.com
He tells Earl how he also used to get tense and worried when he first came home from the war. What cured him was being with animals and seeing how they acted. They accept what comes. They don't argue and philosophize about the future. For them, there is nothing but the present moment.
After reading all of the semi-bad reviews, I was sure I wasn't going to like this book. But it was a delightful short story. I think it would be an adorable play. It was a mix of one of my favorites, Ethan Frome and maybe Secret Garden? Huxley hasn't failed me yet.
Not my favorite book ever. It was written in the weirdest person - third person plural? Is there such a thing?Anyway, an interesting exploration of the concept of healing as well as the ego, individualism and materialism.
Really enjoyed this, great read. Different to a lot of writers, Huxley is the deep thinker. Reminiscent of some of my old favorite writers like Kafka, Dick and Heinlein although at the same time totally different. Perhaps it is also the era.
When they say "a fable," they mean it. If you think you're not "getting" this short book, don't worry, you are--it IS that obvious. The strangeness of the writing comes from the fact that this short story was meant to be a screenplay.
Language is outdated but a good story.
The book itself was enjoyable, being a short read. But the story behind the story was just as interesting.
Good story, interesting the outcome of such a "gift."
an interesting short read-
Recommended in the book, Tolstoy and the Purple Chair: My Year of Magical Reading.
