https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24472.Peony_in_Love
Also, if you're on the fence about whether or not to continue reading this book, don't read this review unless you're set on quitting.
Onwards to the actual review!*************I just couldn't finish it.
Even after studying Chinese history extensively in college, I'm usually not very picky about the books that I read.
But maybe it's the cheesy title.
Or maybe it's just too girly.
I have enough idiots in my life to deal with.
Please don't make me deal with more in my head.
If I rolled my eyes any harder while reading this book, I would have fallen out of my chair.
3 out of 5 stars to Lisa See's Peony in Love, a historical fiction book released in 2007 by Random House set in 17th century China.  Why This Book  I found it sitting on a bookshelf in my condo's laundry room. I read the jacket description, which sounded like a beautiful tale of love, emotions and a little bit of history. I brought it home with me that afternoon, knowing it would come in handy. And when I finished up a few ARCs, I needed a different kind of book; I saw this on my own shelf, whic
Unfortunately, she's already paired off in an arranged marriage with a boy from another family, as well as the fact that as a girl, she's not even allowed to be seen with any males other than those in her own family.The book follows the story line of the play, which seems to be spilling over into Peony's life.
This is the first book about Chinese customs and history that I've read.
It's one of those books where I didn't like it a lot, but I know it's a good book.I wish I had more knowledge of Chinese history and customs.
“"When people are alive they love, when they die, they keep loving. If love ends when a person dies, that is not real love"  I have a confession to make. I bought this book not by choice but by mere economic benefit. The paperback (the brand new one still wrapped in cellophane) was on sale and I bought it for a very fairly cheap price. Guess how much. (view spoiler)[ One U.S. dollar, can you believe that!!?? (hide spoiler)]I was elated to discover that this is a historical novel as I made a re
If love ends when a person dies, that is not real love"  I have a confession to make.
I bought this book not by choice but by mere economic benefit.
(hide spoiler)]I was elated to discover that this is a historical novel as I made a recent promise to myself to increase my historical fiction reads.
Had it ended in that tragic death, I would say it would be just an overused lovesick tragic tale.
Even though, I wasn’t a huge fan of the story, I highly commend Lisa See for the brilliant artist that she is by writing this priceless artifact of a novel.
I'm sure I wrote a review for this book too, at one point.... I have no idea where it's hanging out! I liked this --- and I still remember it but I'm generally not a huge fan of books dealing with the afterlife.... but this was done really well. It's not a STRONG 5 star read - but it's close IMO .... you certainly learn about another aspect of this culture.4.5 rating - round up to 5 stars
The novel’s plot mirrors that of the opera, and eternal themes abound: an intelligent girl chafing against the restrictions of expected behavior; fiction’s educative powers; the rocky path of love between lovers and in families.
Peony’s vibrant voice, perfectly pitched between the novel’s historical and passionate depths, carries her story beautifully—in life and afterlife.) I must say that I loved the first Lisa See novel that I read (Snow Flower and the Secret Fan) and had high hopes for this one, and was severely disappointed.
This book is amazing!!!
It is beautifully written (lovely descriptions and intricate details), well researched, and unbelievably touching.
There were moments where I feel I can't read anymore because I am so overwhelmed with emotion, but I can never put the book down for any real length of time.
It describes the book as a love story.
Peony in Love is a romantic and tragic story.
Love plays a big part, but not necessarily in the way I expected it to.
Please read it for yourself.
One way or another you will be touched.
It is a truly amazing read!
(أربع للكاتبة والقصة والفكرة ككل و أوبرا حديقة الفاوانيا - ونجمة للترجمة الجميلة جداً و المثالية والخالية من الأخطاء )تدور هذه الرواية في الصين وفي زمن لم يسمح فيه للنساء بالخروج من المنازل حيث هنَّ حبيسات الغرف الداخلية ، ولا يشاركن بأي شكل في الحياة العامة ،ولا يجب أن يتحدث أحد عن إنجازات إمراة أو يحتفل بها .إنها عن مجتمع إمتلأ بالخوف من الفن فقط لأن ( الحياة تقلد الفن ).إنه مجتمع امتلأ بالظلم تجاه المراة في كل شيء ، حيث تنشيء العائلات الفتيات للزواج فقط ، والفتيات من الطبقة الغنية والراقية فقط هن من يحصلن على فرص أفضل في الزواج وذلك لأن عائلاتهن غنية ولأنهن ( مربوطات القدمين - ربط القدمين هو أكثر الأدلة على أن هذه الفتاة من عائلة غنية ومن الطبقة الراقية )مجتمع لا يعترف بالمرأة ولا بحقوقها وأن لها رأياً وكيانا مستقلا .
زهرة الفاوانيا العاشقةرواية تتحدث عن شابة صينية في القرن السابع عشر وقصة عشقها البريئة وأحداث حياتها
This book sucked....it was trying too hard to be existential and had wierd poetry and the story went nowhere, but pretended that it would.
Occasionally, rarely, I read a book after which I need to take a few days to come up for air, so to speak.
A book that moves me so deeply and which leaves me thinking ...and thinking.
Peony in Love is just such a book.
A true work of art.
Amazing, beginning to end.
As I told a friend, I CARED so much about what was happening with the characters, I was literally losing sleep.
I wish I could add an extra star to my rating - this is a six-star novel.
Kudos to Lisa See for knocking another one out of the park (and then some).
Peony is a 15-year-old girl in Manchu China who falls in love with the opera The Peony Pavilion, a love story in which the ghost of a girl is brought back to life by the man she loves.
It's really a fascinating read, both to get an idea of the "lovesick girls" (who actually did exist--girls who wasted away, pining for love after reading The Peony Pavilion) and to get a better understanding of old Chinese ghosts and death rituals.
It gives a good understanding of other aspects of Chinese culture, in a time where women were trying to have their creative voices heard rather than continuing their quiet existence in their family's inner chambers.
I just didn't like this book (though I did like Snow Flower and the Secret Fan).
To be fair, I didn't expect to like Peony, but one of the reviews said it "belonged in my beach bag,' which sounded like what I was after at the time.
I just couldn't get into it.
I think because there's SO much exposition of this Chinese opera in the background, and too little (for me anyway) about the main characters.
it's also one of these books where everything is set in motion by a COMPLETELY AVOIDABLE misunderstanding and I have absolutely no patience for those scenarios.
التقاليد سمة مميزة لكل شعب الا ان البعض منها يزيد عن حده ويلغي بشرية الانسان ومشاعره..
أن نأخذ العلاقات وتقريبا كل شيء من باب الالتزام والمسؤولية فقط لا غير وعلى رأس ذلك العلاقات الأسرية بين الكبار والصغار..
والوضع الاجتماعي المربك للمرأة اما أن تكون زوجة فاضلة يتعامل معها الرجل من منطلق المسؤولية والواجب واما أن تكون محظية محبوبة وملعونة في نفس الوقت..
وبفضل التقاليد طبعا يتم عقاب الناس على أشياء لا ذنب لهم بها كما لو كانت الفضيلة هي القوة والرذيلة هي الضعف فيصبح المجتمع طبقي ويتميز بالقسوة وعدم الرحمة وتفرقة بالتعامل الى أبعد حد ممكن..
أبرزت ليزا سي كل ذلك من خلال شخصياتها النسائية بأسلوب في غاية الخيال والرقة..
The historical fact behind the story itself is interesting, namely that the cultural renaissance that took place in late Ming dynasty Hangzhou gave aristocratic Chinese women unprecedented access to education, and even enabled them to actively participate in the literary scene.
The emphasis on exoticism, some of which seem to be contrived for the benefit of Western audiences, reduces the complexity and richness of Chinese culture into a set of cruel customs and absurd superstitions.SPOILERSPeony is an insipid 16-year old girl who wilfully starves herself to death after she was betrothed to a stranger, who later turns out to be her paramour, Wu Ren. For some undecipherable reason (morbidity?, stupidity?), she never bothers to inquire about the identity of her fiancee until it is too late.
Peony is destined to pine away for her young poet and die of love-sickness before she can be married as have so many young girls before her~victims just like the heroine the idolize in the The Peony Pavilion.It is only after death that Peony can begin to see the world and her family for what they really are, even though these perceptions go through a couple of changes even then.
فجعني الموت ولم أعرف أنه البداية لعالم غريب من الأسلاف والأشباح الجائعة.
المرأة التي تموت عند الولادة يحكم على روحها أن تذهب إلى بحيرة تجميع الدم عقابا لها على تركها لطفلها وزوجها وكأنها اختارت الموت بنفسها؟!
والمرأة التي ينسى اهلها -أو يتعمدون- عدم وضع نقطة حمراء لها في لوح الأسلاف عند موتها تهيم روحها كشبح جائع لا يتذكره أحد، وكذلك المرأة التي لا تقدم لها القرابين.
المضحك في الأمر أن الأسلاف الذين يتحكمون في المصائر من الممكن رشوتهم.تكمن قيمة هذه الرواية في العوالم التي تفتحها لنا لفهم أعمق لثقافة من الصعب الوصول إلى عمق تراثها
Lisa See's writing is beautiful, and I understand this book is supposed to be about the women of China who wanted their voices to be heard.
But what I found really fascinating about it was the descriptions of Chinese rituals and superstitions, and learning what the Chinese thought about death.
The descriptions were so vivid to me that I felt like I could really see the pavilions, the plum tree, the Viewing Terrace.
There were so many sentences that made me reflect about life in general.
"My heart is empty and my life has no value anymore.

This opera happens to be hosted by her father and is about a ghost of a girl who is brought back to life by the man she loves.
Peony believes it is for her rather than the elite group of men visiting her father.During the opera, Peony meets a young man and falls in love with him, but eventually they have to come to the realization that they must move on and to the marriages that have been arranged for them and never see each other ever again.
I am not a big fan of afterlife/ghosts type novels, but I found this novel a fascinating listen.
I really enjoyed reading Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. Peony in Love has a few of the same elements but is, nicely, a different novel.
Mix-ups happen and Peony's spirit isn't able to move on since her tablet hasn't been dotted yet.
As her tablet hasn't been dotted, Peony becomes a 'Hungry ghost." Fascinating.Another cultural thing I found of interest was the lovesick maidens.
See mentions that in Chinese history, there were a number of girls who, like in the opera and Peony, become lovesick and starve themselves.
An interesting story, with a clever structure, weaving parallels between the legend of the Peony Pavilion with the "real" story of a girl called Peony, though that does make the first third very predictable.I found the faux naive voice of Peony a little irritating at times; it is too didactic in the way it fills readers in on the historical detail of customs and beliefs, being more like a factual book than a novel.
A friend recommended I read this book, possibly because she knows I am interested in Chinese history.
Syrupy romances and ghost stories are way out of my reading range.
But the depictions of the lives and values of wealthy Chinese families, especially this female view, are fascinating if horrifying.
Almost every day I am consciously aware of how fortunate I am to be a woman in a society like Australia, where women are still not equal to men but where we are free to make choices about our own lives and where mutilation, beatings and enslavement are outside the law, not accepted ways of treating women.
"إن الظلال والأحلام والانعكاسات في المرايا والبرك وحتى الذكريات واهية ومتلاشية...ولكن أتقل حقيقة عن 
Un auténtico despropósito, y me duele decir esto de Lisa See, que ha sido mi gran descubrimiento de este año, pero es que no hay por dónde coger a este libro.
Peonía tiene dieciséis años, vale, pero es que es cansina, obsesiva y repetitiva hasta el hartazgo, además de que me parece increíble que se promulgue por sus acciones una misoginia tal que tenía que volver a la portada mil veces para convencerme de que Lisa See había escrito este libro.
Si empezáis por esta autora, no toquéis este libro porque sin duda, no se ha lucido para nada escribiéndolo, quedaos con el maravilloso El abanico de seda, que merece realmente mucho la pena.
But most of the book is about a ghost, so historical fiction doesn’t quite fit.Then this could be classified as feminist fiction, but not quite.
(Any book that shows arranged marriages as inhuman social constructions gets an extra star.) But then again, there are very unfeminist elements in the book such as Peony desiring both her husband’s and her parents’ families to have sons to carry on the lineage.
Peony and her sister-wife-ghost also fight over Ren as if they were stupid teenagers.
And then begins the REAL weird part as Peony becomes a ghost and starts haunting her to-be husband, who marries another woman.
It's quite unfortunate that the book had very few redeeming qualities.The character of Peony, I felt, was one that was very difficult to sympathise with.
Whilst there were certain narratives within the overarching story that I enjoyed; such as the excursions of Peony's mother and grandmother (overridden by the Manchus invasion - I felt it eventually told a story about a woman's place being at home and punished the two characters for their attempt to traverse outside of their gender roles) and the Banana Garden Five, the overall story, although boasted of female empowerment and feminist ideologies, entirely failed in its promises.
and describes the life of a 15 year old girl named Peony, in a affluent family, educated, cloistered and in love with the opera, The Peony Pavilion which I hope I can also get a copy of to read.
I loved this book, it moved at a slow pace but spanned many years and at least half of the book is told by a ghost but revealing so many cultural beliefs of the Chinese at that time.
The novel enlightens one about seventeenth century family relationships and ancestor veneration in China, beliefs about the afterlife, the history of a famous opera, "The Peony Pavilion" and the effects that it had on young women, the renaissance of women poets and writers during that era, foot-binding, marriage customs, the political scene at the time the Ming Dynasty fell and the Qing Dynasty took over, especially the effects of war on the population, and the life of the upper classes vs.
Thank you again, Lisa See, for transporting me to another time and place and entertaining me with an engrossing history lesson.
Being a lovesick maiden is well and good, but hanging around to experience the love of parenting, of mature love with a partner, of a mature relationship with your own parent, definitely has its own rewards, probably way greater than which we see between Romeo and Juliet, to mix my historical locations and stories.The hidden reward for me was to discover that Imperial China had its published female writers and women of accomplishment.
It was a short time in China's history, but how awesome to discover that even in repressive China, women had found a way to be heard and to show what their lives were like.
Comiesięczne krwawienie nie czyni z dziewczyny kobiety, nie przeistaczają jej także zaręczyny albo zdobycie nowych umiejętności... To miłość sprawiła, że dojrzałam i stałam się kobietą. Prawda jest taka, że podczas czytania tej książki, historia strasznie mi się dłużyła. Nie potrafiłam zżyć się z główną bohaterką a jej choroba miłosna przyprawiała mnie o szybsze bicie serca. Po skończeniu Miłości Peoni zaczęłam ją jednak doceniać i nieco bardziej rozumieć. Doszłam nawet do wniosku, że jest to n
To miłość sprawiła, że dojrzałam i stałam się kobietą.
Prawda jest taka, że podczas czytania tej książki, historia strasznie mi się dłużyła.
Nie potrafiłam zżyć się z główną bohaterką a jej choroba miłosna przyprawiała mnie o szybsze bicie serca.
Doszłam nawet do wniosku, że jest to naprawdę dobra historia i że nigdy wcześniej niczego podobnego nie miałam okazji przeczytać.
PLUSY:+ bardzo oryginalnie przedstawiona miłość i związane z nią uczucia bohaterów (nie tylko głównych, ale i drugoplanowych)+ wątki związane z kulturą, religią i tradycją obowiązującą w XVII-wiecznych Chinach+ motyw krępowania stóp, który sprawił że obejrzałam zdjęcia w Internecie.
Nie polecam.
