https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/345299.Midnight_Tides
Knowing that this is the fifth book in the series, it surprised me at first that instead of continuing the story from everything that has been built in the previous four books, the narrative started its story back to the time before the events in Gardens of the Moon; in a completely new continent with a new conflict and shockingly—with the exception of one character from House of Chains—a completely new set of characters.
It took me a bit of time to get used to the new characters, settings, and story, but once the book hit chapter nine, I was hooked and addicted to reading this book.
Two races that have not been interpreted to any great degree prior to this book yet I imagine what has happened here is pivotal to the overall consequences of the series.
The world, races and epic-ness depicted here is astronomical and I truly believe I will not be able to enjoy fantasy books to this degree after this series as I know its quality cannot (or would be highly unlikely that it will) be replicated.I loved Tehol & Bugg's relationship.
If you have got this far in the series, you know it is amazing and reviews are pointless.
Oh shit I only have half the main series left!It never ceases to amaze me how when I reflect upon an amazing section of the book how Erikson makes rocks, sand, dead bones, smashed pottery, detritus.......
In this book the first 8.5 chapters show how much Erikson has grown as a writer.
I kept theorizing though out the book and thought I had things figured out and the last two chapters had me figuring little out and being so pleasantly surprised.
Erikson more than any other book to date in the series take on the modern state of the world attacking greed, war, government and the general lack of compassion.
It turns out that Midnight Tides is dedicated to relate the story of how Trull ended up being in his position in the Prologue to the House of Chain and is a follow through from its Epilogue as his new friend proclaimed an interest in its retelling.This is the story of a kingdom which was prophesized to be reborn as an empire at the end of what is known as the Seventh Closure.
Notwithstanding, this is still a very solid entry into the Malazan Book of the Fallen and only continues to demonstrate the brilliance of Erikson in creating such an immersive world and telling such compelling stories of possibility the largest cast of characters I've encountered in a series thus far.
(view spoiler)[It was also nice to get a better look at the Crippled God as I liked how he schemed and played nasty tricks earlier.
Of course, that was mindblowing when the (view spoiler)[true identity of Bugg was revealed, I loved when he explained why he chose to be Tehol's servant!
And how he revived him, that was touching :) I had the suspicion about Bugg’s true identity, but nonetheless was surprised when it was revealed :) (hide spoiler)]Another outstanding character, Rhulad and his powers....At first I disliked him a lot as he acted like a spoiled child and I was annoyed with him.
Here, then, is the tale. Between the swish of the tides, when giants knelt down and became mountains. When they fell scattered on the land like the ballast stones of the sky, yet could not hold fast against the rising dawn. Between the swish of the tides, we will speak of one such giant. Because the tale hides with his own.And because it amuses. The fifth part of the Malazan Book of the Fallen is rather different from the previous four. Set on a faraway continent years before the stories of the
The combination of crude, militaristic, Glen Cook-style writing with more fascinatingly flowery elements is both unique and deeply enjoyable, and I found myself saving and highlighting quote after quote, often several on the same page.The most intriguing aspect of Midnight Tides is definitely its explanation and expansion of the Malazan lore.
It does not contain any truly iconic heroes like the ones from the other books, but it is in my personal opinion vastly superior in both writing and worldbuilding.
Malazan Book of the Fallen reviews:
#1 Gardens of the Moon#2 Deadhouse Gates#3 Memories of Ice#4 House of Chains#5 Midnight Tides#6 The Bonehunters
*** 4.65 ***A Buddy Read with my Fantasy Fanatics @ BB&B! Because we love ALL FANTASY!!!I need to start with one of the best quotes from the book, which I find eternally true and very current!!!  "... “Do not seek to find hope among your leaders. They are the repositories of poison. Their interest in you extends only so far as their ability to control you. From you, they seek duty and obedience, and they will ply you with the language of stirring faith. They seek followers, and woe to those
In the end of the previous book, the Tiste Edur Trull Sengar decided to tell his story to his undead companion.
For from inequity derives the concept of value, whether measured by money or the countless other means of gauging human worth.
The ruling class and the army leaders are so sure in their military prowess, that they start wars in order to gain more slaves and ultimately gold, with not a care for the people they conqueror.
However, the distinct and warring Tiste Edur tribes have now united under the Warlock King and are preparing to claim their destiny at the head of the Letherii Empire.
Epilogue: I was swept by the tide.*Chpater 25: There is only one piece of advice I can give those reading Malazan: "Make no assumptions.
Chpater 21: Not that I am ungrateful but this chat about warrens comes four books too late Mr Erikson.
Chpater 14: Somebody should develop the Tehol&Bugg Invigorating Diet (TaBID™️) and earn a lot of money on it.Chapter 13: Gold encased slavery with disgusting lust in the background.
All I can give you is a chapter breakdown of my own drifting with the tide.The Malazan Book of the Fallen:1.
“He saw the tides in their immutable susurration, the vast swish like blood from the cold heart moon, a beat of time measured and therefore measurable. Tides one could not hope to hold back.” In Midnight Tides, Erikson has again introduced us to a new continent and cultures that continue to grow the ever expanding universe of the Malazan Book of the Fallen. There is an entire new dramatis personae save the exception of one character from House of Chains. Also, the setting of this book is before
“He saw the tides in their immutable susurration, the vast swish like blood from the cold heart moon, a beat of time measured and therefore measurable.
In Midnight Tides, Erikson has again introduced us to a new continent and cultures that continue to grow the ever expanding universe of the Malazan Book of the Fallen.
In Midnight Tides there were several story arcs that I enjoyed, but none of them can top Tehol and Bugg.
Midnight Tides was a nice change of pace from previous books.
I love them all, and I am used to Erikson flipping the switch with each book, but this installment had a different feel to it.
For all that I missed the character and settings I’ve come to love in this series their replacements in this book were great and while I found the start to be a bit slow (although not as much as many of my friends seem to have) the story as a whole was really enjoyable, capped with possibly the strongest finale in the series to date.
There were a number of annoying features (Rhulad's rise to power, Erikson's constant capitalism is evil schtick) but there were also a number of awesome features (great characters in the Letherii plot, some really cool cultures, the Crimson Guard and an epic ending).
I definitely won't put any big spoilers in it.Don't let the amount of time it took me to finish this book fool you: this is yet another amazing installment in the Malazan series.
And this book adds a completely new cast of characters, Trull Sengar is the only familiar face we see.
I can't think of any author who writes more brutal battle scenes without it feeling like he's going over the top.
Besides that, I think Bugg is one of the most intriguing characters yet.
Without giving anything away, I think we're going to see some amazing scenes come from future Bugg.
Death is every mortal's shadow, his true shadow, and time is its servant, spinning that shadow slowly round, until what stretched behind one now stretches before him. To say I was sceptical to read this book is an understatement, I was so scared, I thought I might not like this cause I know that this will be filled with completely new characters, location, world, it was like starting a whole new series. But I was so wrong, I loved it, I must admit it was hard to get into, not as hard as GoTM bu
He is not exactly a good guy but he doesn’t deserve what is happening to him, no one does, hope his brothers will find a solution.Udinaas is a slave at the Sengar household, I really felt for him, everyone was just using him, not only mortals but other worldly creatures, I hope things gets better for him, he deserves more.The LetheriiWhich include the Beddict brothers, Seren Pedac, Shurq Elalle, Kettle,Bugg, Ublala Pung, Shand, Rissari, Hesun and others.Tehol Beddict is the second and middle son among the Beddict brothers.
I think the must be the third or fourth time i've read this book, but the first time i've ever taken the time to really read it.
Why is it set before the first 4 books?
Where are my favourite characters?
A whole novel about Trull Sengar-are you serious?
I READ the book.
This instalment is Erikson doing political intrigue up close and personal.
And this is where the new favourite characters come in: Tehol and Bugg.
Love them or hate them, they lift intrigue to a different (rooftop) level.
I didn't even remember they were in this book.
Erikson's stories can sometimes get a bit to grim and bleak for my liking, but I thought this one found the perfect balance.
The brothers aside we met a bunch of fun new characters like Iron Bars and Corlo from the famed Crimson Guard( I want more of them soon ), the hilarious and likeable undead trio of Shurq Elalle, Kettle, and Harlast( I hope we definitely see the female pair again ), The half Tarthanal Ublala Pung( So unlike Karsa!), Seren Pedac( I did not love her, but I suspect her future will make for interesting reading), and the Letharii slave Udinaas( a hard character to figure out but I found myself mostly sympathizing with the guy).
The usual structure of the book is the following: 5 pager worth of philosophical inner thoughts of a character following by 1 page of some action; I do not mean kick-the-crap-out-of-everybody action, just the acts of doing something, like mending a net.
New races, new places, even the magic system is different; so what exactly makes this book a part of Malazan series?Speaking of being able to connect to characters, I found I could only relate to one of them, and he does not get a lot of screen time (Iron Bars).
“We have the army and we have the mages, and we will teach the Edur the meaning of ‘Shock and Awe” when we rain down the magic of the Empty Hold down upon their villages and enslave their children and their children’s children to the tenth generation, for the glory of Lether.”********************************************************************Finance News – Shares in Bugg Constructions up 4000 percent – Technical analysts say company is oversoldThings are on the up and up for recently floated construction company “Bugg Constructions.” Bugg Constructions share price rocketed in the Tolls after the fledgling company acquired the contract for shoring up the “Eternal Domicile.” Excavations and restoration of the ancient palace had been having trouble with flooding with no solution in sight, threatening to delay the advent of the prophesied “Seventh Closure” when our glorious King Ezgara Diskanar will ascend to take his rightful place on the Empty Throne of the Empty Hold to become the promised god Emperor.Bugg’s Construction demonstrated a secret method of being able to solve the flooding crisis and monies to be received from the works and an ongoing maintenance contract have sent the revenue projections through the roof.
"There is a tide in the affairs of men and we, at the height, are ready to decline."  While I'm of an opinion that  Memories of Ice  is his best  Malazan  novel,  Midnight Tides,  with its criticism on materialism and slavery - which in mirroring history (and to a major degree present time) of our own society leaves a sour taste - is probably my favorite book of the series.Before I could continue with book four,  House of Chains,  I had to read Midnight Tides, which is fifth installment in  Ma
Its possession defines their entire world.Power, status, self-worth and respect – all were the commodities that could be purchased by coin.Debt bounds the entire Kingdom, defining every relationship and every motivation, every act and decision - hides behind this.So, for such nation of belief of grandeur, of predetermination, is completely acceptable that they can intrude foreign territory, to hunt and hoard riches of someone else’s hard labor.And because of their self-righteousness it’s only logical for them - when tribes from whom they have stolen from retaliates and destroys ships, kills the crew and gets back those riches stolen from them - to demand compensation.
brothers of Tiste Edur, their relationship within each set and differences in their comparison.It's fascinating to me how dichotomy in which this book started - when we see three Letherii brothers who don't even hide how estranged they are from each other: ‣ where eldest of them 
Rating? Of course, 5 stars ^^ “This tide is rising, and there are scant few who would stand before it."  “From the twisting, smoke-filled clouds, blood rained down. The last of the sky keeps, flame-wreathed and pouring black smoke, had surrendered the sky. Their ragged descent had torn furrows through the ground as they struck and broke apart with thunderous reverberations, scattering red-stained rocks among the heaps of corpses that covered the land from horizon to horizon. The great hive citie
The great hive cities had been reduced to ash-layered rubble, and the vast towering clouds above each of them that had shot skyward with their destruction – clouds filed with debris and shredded flesh and blood – now swirled in storms of dissipating heat, spreading to fill the sky."
I approached Midnight Tides with more than a little trepidation (I delayed reading it for two months) because I wasn't sure I was ready for a 900+ pages flashback book (we see the events preceding Trull's shorning from the Tiste Edur, so the events in this one fall before beginning of the fourth book) with no known characters besides Trull Segnar (and the Cripple God).
This is super-cool writing.I've got a sneaking suspicion that some of the characters could provide more insight than my gushing fanboying, so let's ask them.Fear Sengar: "I signed up for a role titled, 'Brave Sengar,' so what's up with that?"Trull Sengar: "Playing the role of the honest, non-conformist in a society governed by strict adherence to a set of false beliefs, has been quite the challenge.
I got a bit of ice, and a rub, and came back good as new for the third quarter.
Yeah, 'Cute.'"Shurq Elalle: "(ticks off fingers) Stealing scenes, check.
Got an awesome makeover, check.
We are where civilization begins and when it ends, we are there to begin it again.That was amazing.I think Midnight Tides has become my favorite book thus far in the series.It is centered around Trull Sengar, whom we met in House of Chains.
He and his people the Tiste Edur have been united under the Warlock Kin. However, their time of peace is coming to an end as war with Lether, a kingdom who has already conquered several other peoples, looms.As always there are some pretty fascinating characters, such as Trull and his brother Fear, and their family servant Udinaas on the side of the Tiste Edur.
However, it makes it so worth it because each book in this series keeps getting better and better.
Hundreds of millenia, crawling to this shore. The passage of ages is measured by chance. The deep roll of tides, the succession of wayward storms. This is how the world moves - . If someone told me that the fifth book in a series would have an entirely new cast of characters, veering completely away from the ones with whom readers had become accustomed over the previous four books, I’d say that it was an example of some questionable authorial judgment. Maybe that’s why I’d make a terrible autho
If someone told me that the fifth book in a series would have an entirely new cast of characters, veering completely away from the ones with whom readers had become accustomed over the previous four books, I’d say that it was an example of some questionable authorial judgment.
Like hatchlings born on the tide, the peoples of two kingdoms were rushing headlong into deep, deadly waters.
So, dear reader, it’s all connected, one thing to the other.Character-wise, Erickson again delivers a plethora of colorful and memorable men and women, drawn from a wide range of races.
Morire mille volte per non morire mai "Veniamo aggrappati al tempo della nostra giovinezza, trascina
I honestly panicked when i started reading Book 5. In my mind, i was like, will this be THE Malazan book i officialy have no love for...?Will i ever understand what in the world is going on here? The answer is yes...now i understand why book 5 was more or less a standout book for fans of this novel, you're either going to love it or hate it. I've decided there's no middle ground for Malazan books lol.   Betrayals, more betrayals than any mortal could bear -Feather Witch  So book 5 basically int
In my mind, i was like, will this be THE Malazan book i officialy have no love for...?Will i ever understand what in the world is going on here?
So book 5 basically introduces us to new characters, new everything with only one familiar face.
It's like you're back in book 1.
Erikson continues to wow us with more characters to love..
Nope, Erikson continues to show that he just wants to give you more characters to love and who he can break your heart with.
I had bit rough start.This story takes place on distant continent in past so it felt bit detached fo
The last 200 hundred pages were more Shakespearean than anything Shakespeare ever wrote.
I'll admit this was the hardest one so far for me to get into.
All the new names and places and all that shit, it was hard.
But about one-third of the way through things started clicking, and I started to get it.
I started to see the links to other books and the sheer complexity of everything, while still being THOROUGHLY entertained.
I mean c'mon character-wise Rhulad is as cool as they come, Bugg was great, Brys...
some unforgettable shit went down.
Last book was a letdown, this was back to par.
Second time round the only thing that changed from my first read was that I enjoyed it even more! This is still my favourite of the series so far, yet I cannot wait for Bonehunters to start.Original review below.Story: 5/5 1: Being Vague, rambling plot with no little believable storyline5: Ripping yarn, clever, thought provoking I must admit to starting this book with some reservation. I had just finished House of Chains and rated it 5 stars. You can read my review on that here I was completely
You can read my review on that here I was completely ‘into’ the story and the characters of the Malazan world.
I thoroughly enjoyed the storyline, it was interesting, engaging and I really feel like I got to understand the relatively unknown race of the Tiste Edur.
Each family has some very interesting characters and drawing the book to a close Erikson completes a thoroughly enjoyable read.Characters: 5/5
I would recommend this to any Epic fantasy lover, I think that if you hadn’t read other Malazan books you could start with this and get a good understanding of Style of Erikson.
Erikson showed us again that he isn't afraid to take risks. He had this well established series and halfway through it, he decided to publish a book in which he only brought back one character from the hundreds we had already met. ONE character.Having this in mind, I was a bit afraid that I would loose my interest when I picked up Midnight Tides. My fear dissipated as soon as I read the best line opener I have ever read: "From the twisting, smoke-filled clouds, blood rained down." From that poin
Erikson showed us again that he isn't afraid to take risks.
He had this well established series and halfway through it, he decided to publish a book in which he only brought back one character from the hundreds we had already met.
ONE character.Having this in mind, I was a bit afraid that I would loose my interest when I picked up Midnight Tides.
My fear dissipated as soon as I read the best line opener I have ever read:
Who cares if I only knew one character?
With that opener, I knew great things were to come.
Spectacular world building, epic battles, memorable characters.
okay so i finished it.
it took me forever, and it was exhausting, but when i was able to get on a streak of reading, i enjoyed it.
its not poorly written, i just have so much difficulty with genre fiction where everything has an unfamiliar name and theres so much dense backstory which, reading midseries, i wasnt privvy to.
it felt good to have read it, but it feels good to be over, too.
i can read other books much faster...
They are fairly standard in that Politics and fighting is a key part of their storyline, but it's the people who Steven Erikson chooses to focus on within the Letherii who make their side of the story great.We don't really know which side we should be rooting for as we can see that each side is certainly flawed in a variety of ways and that there's problems with the ways of life for each, but still Erikson makes you care for people on both sides and therein lies the problem of waiting for the possible death of one of your favourite characters or sides and never knowing who it may be (he's a devil of an author for tricks!!).Some of the characters who I most enjoyed reading about included:Bugg and Tehol - the wonderful duo within this book who not only have a witty and humorous relationship but also act quite silly at times (in a good way).
My buddy read of the most complicated series I've ever attempted continues.So just as I was getting into the story of the Malazan empire with the Bridgeburners, New Assendants and New Gods in play we stop and go back thousands of years to before any of the happenings in books 1-4 and start a whole new story with only one character that we have ever seen before.
Told mostly about the three Tiste Edur brothers Trull is the only character in this book that we have ever seen before.
