https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6081685-maid-sama-vol-01
Do you like shojo? Do you like shojo with a swoon-worthy mysterious and handsome male character? Do you like shojo with a kick-ass, hard worker, kind and totally likeable female lead character? Do you like shojo with haha-damn-this-is-so-funny-I-just-can't-stop-laughing moments?If yes, then this manga is perfect for you! ^_^
This is totally one of my favorite manga/anime of all times.
Takumi Usui takes an interest on her, becomes her stalker, after he founds out that she's a maid.
Usui then develops feelings for Misaki.
So does Misaki herself, but won't admit it.I absolutely love this manga!
Hehe.Usui and Misaki.
They're absolutely hilarious!
:)I love Usui!
Perverted Alien!(called by Misaki), haha I love that guy.
I love the romance and the story thats in this manga.
And I love Misaki's maid dress, it very much suits her.
If you like shoujo,romance,romantic comedy this manga is the one you have to read.
3.5 StarsThis was so cute ^^Girl Power!The plot was okay but Misaki is amazing.
This girl is kinda crazy, hard worker, dedicated and maybe too self-demanding.
Her father abandoned the family cowardly so she has to work in a Maid Cafe to pay the bills.
She thinks she will never trust the opposite sex again until she meets Usui *swoon* ...Usui is hot.
He likes to keep to himself until he discovers Misa's secret.
After that, he becomes this perverted alien, roof jumper, american captain and sweet guy who's willing to do anything to keep Mila's secret safe.
It has unadulterated entertainment quality, an attractive male specimen who can jump off buildings and survive (read: Usui Takumi, you heathens!), ridiculous humor, the best kind of insanity, beautiful scene transition, interesting life lessons and a short-tempered heroine who personifies badassery.
One other thing that I adored about the whole Maid Cafe set-up was that it wasn't overwhelmingly girly or insulting to the feminists of this world.Finally, I'd like to acknowledge my first anime crush: Usui Takumi, you sir, are the reason for my imploded ovaries.
(On a serious note, how is this not attractive?
(view spoiler)[ I told you so.
(hide spoiler)])5 stars!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
these two will forever have a piece of my heart <3
So now, I am reading a bunch of different books at once so that I can catch up with everything.
And I want to read but I never get time.
This is a manga series about a girl named Misaki Ayuzawa who is the school president.
Misaki wanted to help her mother so she decided to start working.
I want to say a huge thank you to my friend who recommended this manga reading app.
That is where I do all of my manga reading and it is so convenient!
Misaki and Usui's bond is so different, it's one of the highlights in this book.
I'm just glad the two don't become a couple in the first 4 chapters. That's such a breath of fresh air. But seriously though, I hope male love interests stop pulling the girl closer to them while muttering cheesy lines. That's so... cringe-inducing. Seriously.
Just have fun,anima also is so wonderful.
I liked characters a lot.
Misaki is hard working, clever, strong and independent girl and school council president in mostly boys' school.
She has one flaw though: she hates boys.Usui is careless, intelligent, calm and laid back popular boy at school.
He is also considerate that he didn't give out information about Misaki's working in a cafe.
2. I liked the chemistry.
It really shows how they like each other.3.
I liked the art.
Though I didn't like how the texts were small in some places to read.It is great to have a fun reading time and forget about responsibilities.
There is something about a hardworking, righteous, independent, selfless and kick-ass female lead that makes me love a manga.
Meet Misaki, the opposite of a typical Shoujo lead.Are you tired of reading about the cocky, brash, loud mouthed, bad boy male MC who turns good because of the female MC?
Meet Usui, the slight deviation of the cliched male Shoujo lead.
However, he has some stalking tendencies, which I don't like.I'd recommend this manga if you are looking for a light, funny read with a dash of adorable romance and a horde of crazy situations.
FAVORITE ANIME . FAVORITE CHILDHOOD MEMORY. AND MY FOREVER LOVE, USUI! I JUST FINISHED RE WATCHING THE ANIME..It's hard to believe that it was almost 7 years ago. I wish they will make a season 2
1. Girl breaks metal and tears piercings out of bare skin.
When will people accept that a dashing ravishing hot-n-cold charming jerk-with-heart-of-gold boy...3.
Is a dashing ravishing hot-n-cold charming jerk-with-heart-of-gold stalker/pervert.
(yes, pervwrt because no, I do not approve of random boys lifting my skirt.)4.
One volume of stalking and tom-foolery is enough and more.Okayokayokay, Usui is hot.
He looked kinda cute in them.
Okayokayokay he looked awfully cute in them.
And yes 'cute' is a substitute for another word.
Ahemahemahem.I know that he is a stalker.
But you know that I'm a girl.
USUIII!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Oh my god.....this is so damn funny!!
Misaki being the pres,and the three idiots, and the fighting, and last but not least.....USUI!!
Oh my god, he's so sexy nad gorgeous!
I love how's he's like this blunt, independent, careless, prefect guy!!!
<3 I love how Misaki is independent.
She acres for her sister and mother, works her ass off....oh my god, she's no joke.
Whaaat?!And more Usui...gahhh!
<3 I don't gush over blondes a lot..but he's an exception <3 Ok, so when he  found out about Misaki being a maid, and you had this coming!
he still has this "careless" expression!
Animeyi izlediğimde çok sevmiştim, sonu yoktu tam olarak çünkü ülkede yaşanan bir doğal afet sonrası animeyi bitirmişler, tam olarak bitmeden. O yüzden gıcık olup manganın sonunu okumuştum, ama geçenlerde birisi yine okuyunca duvara düştü ve baştan okumak istedim:))Sanırım ilk defa manga okuyorum, ne taraftan ne tarafa falan okunuyor anlamam, çözmem zamanımı aldı :D Ama çok tatlılar ya <3
Mega cool! Die Reihe werde ich auf jeden Fall weiterverfolgen. :)
Misaki dominates in strength and academics, but she has a secret: she works at a maid cafe (which is exactly what it sounds like unless you think that it’s a cover for prostitution, which I would imagine is sometimes the case but is not here).In the first volume, several people discover her secret, namely the guy who has just taken the top academic score from her and the three bad boys.
If you’re new to manga, I’m not sure if this is where I would recommend starting because it’s rather weird and probably has more cultural things to adjust to than some other options.
а она такая вся типа он ей не нравится, даже себе не признается.она работает в кафе, где все девушки одеваются горничными, это большой секрет.у них часто случаются разные передряги, то другая школа (Миябогоуку или как-то так) вмешивается, то ещё чего.это всё я посмотрела в аниме, которое было супер-смешным и очень мне понравилось,я много смеялась.Ребята наконец дошли до того, что Усуи рссказыает Мисаки о себе.
Усуи не хотел с ней встречаться, так как он типа наследник очень богатой английской семьи, они могли их отношения использовать против него.
вообще отношения у них такие забавные.Усуи переводится в другую школу.при это громко и часто всем говорит, как любит Мисаки .
Para leer la reseña al completo, haz click aquí.Es innegable que esta serie de 18 mangas me hace regresar a mi más temprana adolescencia y a esos momentos en los que luchaba por decidir qué anime podría decepcionarme o cuál no.
ya cuenta con más de una década desde su publicación en Japón (2006), y desde el momento en el que imaginé en 2015, cuando Ivrea anunció que traería uno de mis shojos favoritos al castellano, sentí que había cierta esperanza, pues supuse que jamás conocería el verdadero desenlace de la serie (ya que en el anime no te cuenta TODA la historia y omite el final).
So as you might be able to tell I'm on a shoujo manga high at the minute and can't seem to stop. Reread this entire series in a day and I am not ashamed to say I might've cried a little bit at the ending. Also I am now very certain that Usui Takumi is the reason behind my innately high expectations of men....
What will happen to Misaki, will Usui-san spill the beans?
This manga is none of those, it has just enough happening in every chapter to keep my interest while sticking to the main plot.
I like the fact that you actually get to follow Misaki Ayuzawa story and see why she acts the way she does, her background story, a growing romance, and also a change in character.
Most manga miss the fact that the first volume of a series is to introduce your main characters and not keep everyone in the dark.
Maid Sama!
Otherwise, I wouldn't have been able to read the whole thing.I got a copy of this from the library, since there's no chance of getting it from other sources...
Sadly, whoever had this book before me tore out all the pages relating to the Maid Cafe!
>:(And of course, they tore a page from the bonus story too so I couldn't read that either.
^_^#Maid-Sama!, or "Kaichou wa Maid-Sama?!" (full title translates to "The student council president is a maid?!") is the story of Misaki, a girl who hates men.
Misaki is pretty much your usual heroine but for the maid cafe thing, and Usui's your usual not-interested guy.
Manga is weird, folks.
So. Misaki is the school president and is super tough on the boys (can we take a minute to talk about how serious business being a Japanese school president is?
In order to make ends meet, Misaki works in a maid cafe.
What's a maid cafe, you ask?
Uisi, the "hottest boy in school" discovers Misaki's after school job.
SO WEIRD.
Anyway, I haven't figured out if this is a weird feminist reclamation (Misaki really does kick a lot of ass, you guys), or if it's horribly offensive.I'll get back to you on that one.
(As I always say, tropes are tropes for a reason: because they're popular.)I really loved that this manga wasn't overly girly or fanservice-ish.
You won't see any gratuitous panty shots here, instead the series focuses on the idea of popping its heroine into several different forms of maid costume.
This is a pretty wholesome series as far as maid manga goes, so you can pretty much feel free to read it without fear of suddenly seeing nothing but flesh.
(Not that there's anything wrong with fanservice, but sometimes you just want to read about maids that aren't getting their clothes ripped up.
Hiro Fujiwara's the BEST work is Kaichou wa Maid-Sama according to me.
Usually romantic comedy series have a mushy, unrealistic girl who is always in despair and is helped by the almighty guy.
Well this series is amazing.
The strong female character Misaki Ayuzawa is amazing.
She is by far my favorite female manga character.
The change in Igarashi's feelings for Misaki was unexpected and exciting too.
A good love story with a happy ending...comedy....fantasies...and above all passionate romance....Kaichou wa Maid Sama provides it all.

Easily the best shojo manga of all i have read till date :D The manga gave me a welcome respite from the usual shojo female protagonists. Our heroine Misaki is kick-ass and independent, brave and inspiring. As for the hero..Usui Takumi is a guy who redefines perfection ;) He is got the looks,intellect,attitude,talent, style, charisma..and moreover he is an awesome cook as well :P :D The romance between the two is refreshing and not clichéd.The side characters are pretty interesting as well and the plot is well executed..it retains your interest throughout..In short..go for it ppl :)
I loved the anime so I clearly have to read the manga too. XD Curse my varied interests.
Reading this manga reminds me of how much I love the anime.I watched the anime long time ago.And feels like rewatching it again.I missed Usui and Misa-chan.But I think I prefer the anime.In anime Usui is more handsome than in manga.I wonder why...
Would collectively write a review once I've read the entire series. ^_^ Although I must admit, Usui is so cute omg!
