https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13130.Judge_Jury
Sigh...I'm throwing the proverbial noose over my neck with even a three star rating of this book.
But dammit...the man makes you turn pages.
Sucks you in like CRACK though.I hate the man for doing it.
But then I respect and love how easily he can hook you with the most simple of plot basis and character development.
Makes me think I can make millions on writing...but then there are those of you out there reading this laughing your ass off.
Easy read...as in 300+ pages you blow thru and then realize its over...and your disappointed.
Damn you Patterson, but you are a guilty read.
How is this book a bestseller?
It's below average.
The plot was a good thriller plot.
We have a mobster, a hit man, a federal agent and a hot single mother.
Not the recipe for a timeless novel, but a good enough setting for a crime novel.
But oh my, the writing was so average, with random exclamations thrown in.
I guess it was an OKAY book.
But it's a far cry from being a bestseller!
It's just insulting for this book to be anywhere near the best seller stack.
Denis Lehane, now that man can write Thrillers.
The trial is for a mob boss who has killed numerous people and gotten away with it every time.
When the jury gets sequestered, it doesn't stop Covello from having his people get to them.
Will he get away with murder again or will he finally face his fate?I have enjoyed James Patterson books for a long time.
His books aren't always the best, but they are great for a quick read and lots of entertainment.
In this book, I like the way that Andie handles the situations that are put to her.
A quick book to enjoy on my way to and from work.
This was my first James Patterson book that I've read.
My mother-in-law is a HUGE fan of his work and I borrowed this copy from her while visiting over New Years when I had a sleepless night and couldn't find the book I brought on the trip.
As I was reading I could picture it all, like I was watching a film.
I like that the chapters are short in his books.
I could cover 50 pages in an hours and feel like I really dug deep into the story.
Next time I visit my MIL, I will borrow another of his books.
This book was soooo good...It was combination of action, suspense, it was sad and happy parts...It had to do with a man being tried to sentence him to time in prison...But this man was such a powerful man that he had pulls even from inside...He made things happen, scared people off the case and made people die...but none of it can be linked to him until one detective who was smart enough to think outside the box...A nailbiting experience and A must read!
4.5 oh this was fun, it's been ages since I read a page turning suspense novel, forty years ago i read them all, now I just get them for my husband.
We started this as an audio book in the car, it sounded like a play with real gunshots, sirens, music and other sound effects, which would have totally unnerved me if I was driving!
For me, is was a fast paced Saturday matinee kind of feeling, over 100 chapters, all cliff hangers of fun!
For its genre I totally enjoyed this mobster romp and stomp around the world.
My biggest complaint is that the second to last chapter of Judge & Jury had a weird, unnecessary “twist” to it where two characters behaved very out of character. It’s painfully obvious that Patterson and Gross were trying to tie up loose ends and disguise it with contrived badassery, hence the three-star rating.Other than that, Judge & Jury is an okay book. It’s the literature version of junk food - quick, easy, and relatively satisfying. It’s also nice that Judge & Jury is just a stand-alone novel.
I just finished reading his latest release, "The 6th Target and that was another real dud.
All I can say to Mr. Patterson: "I have enjoyed many of your earlier novels, would you get serious and start creating well-written stories that you certainly have the talent to conceive." In the story "Judge and Jury", I almost got excited and began to read pages non-stop, but then the story started to fall apart again.
At this point I was reading the scene where the mob leader is on trial for murder.
I know this is fiction but the scenes should have some resemblance to the real world.
I can't believe it took two authors to write this.!! I mean,any average or slightly below-average guy could've written this while half asleep.. And Patterson is someone so popular and widely-read.. It was a quick read because there wasn't much content and you could easily turn the pages without missing anything.. You didn't need such a lot of pages to write this short story.. The copy I have is a hard-bound one and it really made me feel like hitting my own head with it as a warning for me not to pick up Patterson any time soon..
This book was amazingly well written (as always). I love how the the suspense leaves you on the edge of your seat all the way to the end. JP is such a talented writer, all of his books just fascinate me and put me into his world. And I'm glad Andie and Nick got together...which I kind of assumed but hey, with James, there's never a dull moment ;)
I didn't think it started slow, and I listened to the entire thing in just over a day.
I guessed right from the start that Nick and Andy would form a bond, but was unable to guess where it would lead them, but was happy with where it did.
This story takes the reader on a wild world tour from New York, Israel to the end of the world at the tip of South America.
Being introduced as the ultimate legal thriller would lead one to believe that it could rival a John Grisham story but it doesn’t.
💛💛💛💛💛
I listened to the unabridged audio of this book.
I didn't think it started slow, and I listened to the entire thing in a couple days.
I guessed right from the start that Nick and Andy would form a bond, but was unable to guess where it would take them, but was happy with where it did.
The sound effects and music within the audio of this book was okay, though there were times when I could have done without so much of it.
However, the ending ruined it a little.
This tale starts as a legal thriller, but a major twist occurs a little over 100 pages into this book that takes the novel into a completely different direction.
After this twist, the book's pace really picks up, and I thought the climax of the novel was very exciting and well done.
I think most people who buy a Patterson book know what they're getting into.
I am amazed that authors get away with 127 chapters—each two and a half pages.If fun is what you're expecting, then I think Patterson really delivers the goods with this book, more so than some of his previous novels which I may or may not have read).
Dominic Cavello, a mafia don, is arrested by the narrator, Nick Pellisante of FBI.
All save one, Andie DeGrasse, die in the blast.
Andie, on that fateful day, had her 10 year old son on the bus too and he is charred beyond recognition.
Cavello is moved to a maximum security prison and another trail begins after 6 months amid unprecedented security.
Yet, Cavello escapes.
Nick works overtime and with the help of Andie is able to track down the man who was hired by the don to blast the bus.
In a gripping climax Nick and Andie kill him.
The story revolves around an FBI agent, a juror, a mafia don on trial and a whole lot of bad writing.
While the FBI agent is desperately trying to see a convicted don, he indirectly becomes the reason for the death of juror number 9's young son.
Time moves forward and as expected, the FBI agent falls in love with the juror, the mobster escapes bail and we are left with a grueling read (chapter 40 through 110) to find out where he's hiding and how the agent and the mother will get their vengeance.
Instead, read some of Grisham's books...ANY of Ghrisham's books.
Judge and Jury brings us into the courtroom as a well known mobster is put on trial.
No one wants to be on that jury.
He continues to draw us in by stating there's nothing he can do to anyone while in jail; but then things happen to the jury, to families of jurists, and to law enforcement.
This man might have been in jail, but it doesn't mean he wasn't in contact with his associates.
Makes you wonder if the $5 a day one receives for jury duty is enough to endure long days, being sequestored, being away from family, and facing a brutal killer.
Another great book by James Patterson and his minions. It is a wonder that they ever convict any of these mob bosses.
2 or 3 stars...couldn't decide. Parts were okay, but other parts were ridiculous. I ultimately gave this 2 stars, because 2 authors wrote this and thought it was good (it's really not). Maybe this will balance out the folks who somehow believe this is a 5 star piece of work. (Go read a John Sandford!)
Superb plot, packed with drama and usual page-turning action - loved it.
Very solid read i page turner
Nobody is above the law but there are those that simply disregard it.
This story takes the reader on a wild world tour from New York, Israel to the end of the world at the tip of South America.
Some people hold no value to the lives of others and kill for the pure self gratifying act of inflicting pain, sorrow and suffering; simply because they can.
Being introduced as the ultimate legal thriller would lead one to believe that it could rival a John Grisham story but it doesn’t.
It is an entirely new game altogether.
EXCELLENTHow can I say this is the best book of James Patterson's, when I've read so many...almost all of them?
I read his latest one two days ago and can't say it's any better than this one, and this one is 10 years old!
This confirms that James Patterson is on the top of best suspense writers into the world.This book takes you all over the world, beginning in New York with Nick, SAC in charge of the mob division.
Your heart will be racing, sitting on the edge of your seat, and cheering Nick on .
James Patterson books are so quick to read. I love that none of his chapters are longer than 3-4 pages. This one seems pretty standard fare for him. A single mother is called to serve on the jury during the trial of a mob boss. The mafia guy gets revenge against the jury and changes the mom's life forever. She ends up working with the FBI guy on the case to finally see the mafia don brought to some sort of justice - legal or not.
I usually love Patterson's books. I was kind of disappointed in this one. The trial part was kind of slow for me and the rest kind of felt like I had read it somewhere else before. Not sure why. I still liked it, but didn't find that I was as engrossed in the story until I was over a third of the way in. I am glad this wasn't one of the first books of his I had read because I might not have gone on.
Patterson's writing is so simple and basic...some chapters are literally 2 pages long...but somehow, with minimal effort, he hooked me with this story. The characters aren't even developed all that well, all that quickly, but I still find myself unable to stop turning pages. Someone referred to this book as a 'long short' read, which is so true. The over 400 hundred pages look so daunting, but you fly right through it. Very quick, easy read, and a good one.
one of the best patterson!!Andie DeGrasse, an aspiring actress and single mom, is not your typical juror. Hoping to get dismissed from the pool, she tells the judge that most of her legal knowledge comes from a bit part curling around the stripper's pole in The Sopranos. But she still ends up as juror number 11 in a landmark trial against a notorious mob boss.
Normal Patterson: Good plot, well-defined characters, good guys win, cussing, & graphic sex. I pass over last 2 to get back to what is (without them) my kinda mystery/thriller. Audiobook is well read by Joe Mantegna (also the usual for him).
I would've given 3.5 starsgreat plot, great characters, plenty of action and suspense, as expected from this author - good entertaining motion picture type of book
Sign.. This book was pretty boring :/. I've been trying to get back into James Patterson but this was just super cheesy.
