https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10445208-touch-of-power
Just go read this book.THIS is how a novel should be done. I'll be talking more about it in my January wrap up video because IT WAS JUST SO FANTASTIC!!!!
She brings the story to life - it's a different experience from reading the book as she's acting it out with the various voices and the sarcasm and I've actually laughed out loud - so strange and fun.
She reads Quain with a Scottish accent - not quite what I'd imagined...but I've grown used to it and now I can't hear him any other way :) Flea is perfect, and Kerrick's a bit...off, but I'm not sure how he's supposed to sound.
Mom is also perfect and Belen sounds just like Poppa Bear.I'm going to try and make sure Gabra reads all my books from now on!
Avry, a 20-year old magic healer in a world where healers are persecuted and blamed for spreading deadly plague, is a nice character.
Avry and her love interest are in their twenties; conflicts, violence and sex are of YA variety; and the writing style is so simple and void of nuance it would better fit a children's book.But what bothers me the most about this novel is the whole concept of healing.
My question is, if Avry can only take away treatable illnesses, why not allow the patients heal on their own?
It's Maria V. Snyder people. She can do no wrong.  “I can't decide what's worse. Losing family members or not having a family member to lose.”  Unfortunately, that is a question many people had to ask themselves in the Fifteen Realms. A plague killed millions of poor souls, and the healers were the ones to blame, despised and on the run, hunted down and executed. The survivors were in no better condition than the dead, kingdoms and governments collapsed and among the ruins rose those who craved
Avry of Kazan was the last healer alive who was rescued by a strange team with one goal; heal the prince you loathe or else the king who commands the armies of the walking dead will prevail.
I loved her secondary characters, Belen the protective Poppa Bear, Loren and Quain the funny and loyal "monkeys" and Flea the former street rat.
Avry is a very kind heroine, she knows some of her decisions are risky or foolish but she can't stop herself from helping people.
There was no insta-love with Avry, mostly sarcasm, fights and banters.
“We’re really surprised you weren’t caught by the locals sooner,” Quain said.“We had a list of healers,” Loren said. “But by the time we learned of their location, they’d been executed. We always heard the same gossip. That they had been caught by doing something stupid.”“Like healing a child,” I said. My obvious weakness. That awkward moment when you love a book despite hating almost everything in it...Book chemistry. It is very, very real, and this book is living proof that it exists. There a
There is a too-stupid-to-live main character, there is deus ex fucking machina up the yin-yang, there is a motherfucking asshat of a love interest, there is an attempt at a love triangle, there is almost no relationship building (if you thought Valek and Yelena in Poison Study was out of nowhere, wait til you read this book), there is a plot that literally takes you across the entire fucking world with me scratching my head wondering...what the actual fuck is going on.But I can't lie.
Until, thanks to a soft heart, she healed a sick child---and is caught.Avry is sentenced to death.
One way or another, Avry is sure to meet her death, because what Kerrick wants her to do will kill her.The Setting:1.
In fact, it was the perfect blend of walking, kick something’s ass, flirt and walk again to keep me glued to the page like some kind of junkee holding out for their next hit.We’re in this recently plague-ridden world that’s trying to pull itself back together and multiple kingdoms are struggling to reclaim power after many of the old ones have collapsed and fallen.
Let’s start with the fact that Avry kicks butt, I love her and I hope that one day I can find a girl just like her to marry and spend the rest of my life with.
They take a long, wild journey to find the prince.What I really enjoyed about this book was the adventure and characters.
Usually when I think about a character so selfless the term "doormat" comes to mind, but this is absolutely not the case with Avry.
Throughout the whole book we are constantly reminded that Avry is going die because the plague will kill her when she saves the prince.
I don't like that the story was built upon this solely because honestly we all knew this wasn't going to happen.
Despite my complaints, I feel the book was still quite good, and I'm glad I read it.
Rating Clarification: 3.5 - 4 StarsI know everyone loved The Study series, which I've yet to finish but honestly...
Kerrick expects Avry to heal a dying (plague) Prince Ryen for his trouble and he isn't nice about it.
Be that as it may the other characters like Belen and Flea were fantastic, I loved how they were with Avry, their camaraderie was cute, I loved how protective they were of her, especially from Kerrick.
I'll definitely be continuing this series, but like Poison Study I'm not itching to start the second book (Scent of Magic), so I'll be reading something else.
Avry is in prison awaiting execution after it is discovered that she is a healer… she's saved from death by Kerrick and his friends who want her to heal their friend who is dying of the plague.
Avry finds out that the friend who needs healing is Prince Ryne, someone who she refuses to heal as she believes that he is responsible for many deaths and is not worth saving.
Avry very reluctantly agrees to go with them to where Prince Ryne is hiding as the alternative would be death and Kerrick and his friends Belen, Flea, Loren try to convince Avry that he is worth saving.
WOW.Just wow.There's a famous quote by Toni Morrison: “If there's a book that you want to read, but it hasn't been written yet, then you must write it.”For the past few years I've taken this quote to heart and written the types of things I love to read.But now I may as well just give up.Touch of Power is the perfect novel for me.Sure the writing style is different to mine, and I'd do a completely different approach, and there's nothing in plot, characters or themes that are remotely similar to my own young adult high fantasy but still.WOW.I've wanted to read this type of book for years.
I FINISHED A BOOK FOR THE FIRST TIME IN OVER A WEEK!! Since I was sick I fell into the worst slump ever and had absolutely no motivation to read but thank god this book pulled me out of my slump! It really was just a classic Maria V Snyder book and it was exactly what I needed. I really needed a basic fantasy since I have so many intimidating complex fantasy books waiting to be read that would have put me more in a slump. Thank god for this book, it was great.
I couldn't help but root for her.The romance took a backseat here.
Her ability to tell a story is fantastic, she knows exactly that a great story shows.I am one of those people who get easily annoyed with lengthy explanations of character because where's the fun in that?
Either that or Quain is half eagle.”“A bald eagle?” I quipped.Kerrick smiled a genuine smile.
I offered to keep Jael company for that one.”The others suppressed their grins, but Kerrick failed to find it amusing.
~•~•~•~•~•~•~•~•~•~•~•~•I am very attached to these characters it's not funny.Definitely a must-read.

Seriously...the book started so good, I barely had time to even put an update.
I was like:
What saved this read was that I love Ms. Snyder style of writing and I knew if I soilder through I would definitely get to the pot of goal, at the end of the rainbow.
I just found the storyline too predictable and drawn out at times and I'm also kinda of fed-up with the protagonist being the "last" of a particular people and the only hope to save everybody.
I’ve also read every single book that she’s published, but nothing has ever reached the level of that first love for me.
Unfortunately, this is another case of “like but don’t love.” Except, I feel like this one is even more of a let-down, because it’s so similar to Poison Study.
Avry and Yelena also have a very similar voice, in my opinion.I do love the imaginative magic system; although, the healing is again similar to Poison Study.
But there’s not much else here.It’s like reading a version of Poison Study that’s been bleached of all nuance and drained of all emotion.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Not such a bad re-read*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱  Re-read: 05.06.2018 I decided to re-read this book simply because I can't find anything new to read. Nothing interesting me anymore, and the sad part is that most of my re-reads are a complete bust. Luckily, this one actually wasn't so bad. The story is really interesting and the characters are great. The timeline is over months and I liked that; you get to know the characters, you get to feel and get to know the world, and you get action the whole way. The
I recommend everyone who liked high fantasy to read this series.
Other characters:↦ (view spoiler)[Prince (hide spoiler)]Kerrick of Alga (26), leader of a band of rogues.
(hide spoiler)]↦ Prince Ryne of Ivdel Realmm, the one who’s sick and Kerrick wants Avry to heal.↦ King Tohon of Sogra (25-26?), a life magician and he wants to be king of all fifteen Realms.
She, Tohon and Ryne is battling for the rule?↦ Noelle of Kazan (14), Avry's sister, hateful little girl.↦ Jael of Alga, she and Kerrick were betrothed and almost to the altar when a stronger suitor stole her heart.
- Kerrick of Alga.Would I read more by this author/or of series?
Actual Rating: 2.5 starsThis book didn't make me feel, not really.
It was entertaining but that's all.
There are plenty of adventurous situations, but no real story for most of the book.
Many things happen but nothing traps you enough to want to keep reading.
I almost didn't finish it.
Not because I did't like it, but because I wan't interested enough and it seemed as if I wouldn't be missing much if I did.
I won't keep reading this series.
I am sure the next installments would be pack with action, I just don't trust they would be emotionally engaging enough.
It has it all, adventure, comradeship, romance, betrayal, friendship, loss, magic, sacrifice, evil, set in an amazing fantasy world.Avry is an amazing character, a heroine so strong, so compationate, so loyal, it was marvelous being in her head.
Snyder weaves an interesting, very complicated fantasy world, similar to the one in her "Study" series.
All the characters are very well developed, from the minor ones to the villains, to the ones that form her family in the end.
If you like your heroes brooding, grumpy, not giving the heroine the time of day, then you're in for a treat with Kerrick.
Then he insists she gives her life for his friend.
I'm definitely coming at this book from a different perspective than a lot of people I know, many of whom have read and loved at the very least Poison Study, and often more of Maria V.
I also enjoyed that the Fifteen Kingdoms seemed to have a lot of political variation in them, though as other reviewers have pointed out, some of the systems and terms felt anachronistic.I guess that's the primary problem I had with this book: strong concepts, but just not enough explanation to make them fit.
I remember the writing smooth and the world building vivid, so I expected the same thing from Touch of Power, but damn, I was so wrong.
In this book, I found Snyder's writing a little amateurish.
He's a prince and a forest mage, and starts out as a despotic leader of a group in a mission to find a healer but grows softer as the story progresses to the point he says things like "And you broke through the ice around my heart..." Yup. Then we have Tohon the all powerful life mage/necromancer, of course, he had to be handsome with a killer smile too, and a Daddy never loved me complex.
In the book he tells Avry why he hates Kerrick.
RTC!
I have absolutely no doubt that this book is going to be amazing!*After reading it*Yup, I was right. This book exceeded my expectations :)
My only problem was, that I had too much expectations after reading Poison Study series.The first half of this book was rather slow-paced, the characters were constantly walking somewhere through the woods and I was slightly bored at first.
Do you really think I’d put her in danger?''Not on purpose, but things happen that are out of your control.'Kerrick gave him a tight smile.
“People, on the other hand, are not worth caring for.”I kind of liked him and definitely need to know what problems will he cause in the next book - Scent of Magic!
*HUGE CHEER* I haven't enjoyed a book by Maria V Snyder so much in a long time (even though they are usually great); I stayed up reading til all hours and was even late to work because I couldn't put it down!
The gang (Kerrick, Belen, Vinn, Quain and Flea) do their best to convince Avry, through any method possible, that she should heal Ryne as they believe he is the only person who can bring all the shreds of their plague-ridden kingdom together and restore order.
I also love how rich her characters are; I really feel like I know Avry, Belen, Kerrick, and Flea.
3 stars rounded down to 3 starsThis book was great and when I read it I enjoyed it so much but I got bored when I began reading chapter 20 although there are something that I didn't like about this book.
But I still quite enjoyed it.What I didn't like :With a strangled cry, Kerrick lost his temper.
Belen lunged toward Kerick and I raised an arm to block Kerrick's strike, but we were to slow.
Kerrick backhanded me across my cheek.
I loved Snyder's first book, Poison Study, and since then I've been a faithful reader of everything she's written.
Snyder's never been one to info-dump in her stories, which I appreciate, but in this story I felt like the world-building information was doled out in small pieces in such a haphazard function that I spent much of the story feeling like I didn't truly understand the world she had created.The story is set up in a "quest" format, with the book centered around a journey from one place to another in order to achieve some aim.
Poison Study (by this author) is one of my ALL TIME FAVES so I can't help compare all her other heroines to that one, and no one ever lives up to her 100%.
I enjoyed the magic worldbuilding, for some reason I just felt one step ahead of the characters frequently.
I didn't 100% feel the attraction between the two main characters either, so maybe that made me a bit less invested.
I enjoyed the heroine's POV though, and am interested to see the second in the series.
Felt a bit young adult-ish in tone, so it would be good for teen readers.
AND I LOVED IT A LOT.The story follows Avry, a girl with the power of healing.
Snyder tells a story that is heavily on politics, with amazing characters and a subtle and slow hate-to-love romance that is amazing.** **There were one thing that I didn't like at all and it was that in the very beginning when Avry and Kerrick started their journey together they had a fight and he slaps her.
The relationship was amazing at the end, and Kerrick shows a great character development, but I still feel obligated to acknowledge that moment, because after all, he's the love interest of the story.
I fully got sucked into the story, if for no other reason than the characters.Avery - A very realistic, every day heroine, you know, outside of the whole magic healing thing.
I liked that she didn't start as a superwoman, but that she was taught self defense throughout the book, so that she didn't end up some helpless damsel in distress either.Kerrick - I have to admit, he was not an easy character to love.
Though there were a ton of twists and turns, I was able to guess at a lot of them too easily for my liking.
Snyder that introduces Avry of Kazan, a Healer who is able to take illnesses away from another and take them as her own.
When she’s abducted by a band of rogues and told that they require her help to heal a prince who is sickened with the plague she must decide who’s life is worth more because only one of them will be able to survive.ThoughtsThis is actually the first novel I’ve read by Maria V.
The world that Avry lived in had the potential to be a truly fascinating fantasy world but the author didn’t seem to find it fitting to expand upon that either.
I was really hoping for another Poison Study, or even another Storm Glass…well, I got neither.There's no depth to Touch of Power, the underdeveloped characters fall flat and the world-building is equally thin.
Kerrick, the 'love interest', is a ruthless prick who backhands, starves and exposes our heroine to the elements in the hope that a bit of hypothermia will crush her resolve.
Maybe with a bit of world-building, a lot of character development and a conveniently placed hole for Kerrick to fall into…Snyder might just have herself a sequel.
