https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/898885.Loving_Frank
In the past two years, Jason and I have toured two Frank Lloyd Wright homes and I took a modern architecture class in college that featured a ton of his work, so I thought I would enjoy a fictionalized glimpse of his personal life.
I did enjoy reading about Taliesin and the Midway Gardens and how FLW incorporated thoughts from disparate cultures (Japanese, Italian, German) into his own creations.What I didn't like was Mamah, who was unfortunately the main character of the book.
I love it in a way I haven't loved a book in a while (even all the ones I've said I loved).First off, for those unfamiliar with the plot, this is historical fiction at its finest — detailing the love affair between FLW and Mamah Cheney.
if you know nothing about the tryst, read about it in this book because it makes it that much more magical.Remarkably, this is Horan's first book and it is beautiful.
Horan has me wanting to read everything about FLW, Taliesin and Mamah Cheney that I can.
Two people, selfish and completely self absorbed who flaunt convention and common sense while living their own self styled code of ethics “I want for me” A code invoked throughout their lifetimes with little consideration for the destruction, exploitation and pain caused for the adults and children left in their wake.
8 children and a niece who had already lost her own mother experienced directly the effects of this cavalier attitude toward responsibility.
Nancy Horan’s effort is a commendable mix of fact and fiction and fills in the blanks of a story that is typically unknown.
The book jacket recommendations were phoney-sounding: Elizabeth Berg wrote, "this character will live on in my heart and soul for the rest of my life." (I don't know about THAT)Someone else, Scott Turrow perhaps (I highly doubt he read the whole book) called it a brave first novel.
Okay, I'm with him; although it woudl have been braver still to do some creative flash-backing at some point to keep the reader from yawning about pre-war feminism and know that the end of the love affair was goign to rattle her--the reader's--cage.If I were a blurbist, I'd write:Horan's readable historical novel delves into the concepts of freedom versus self-absorption, creativy against egomania, and the price one pays, in any era, for happiness.
Loving Frank is a fictional recreation of the true story of the adulterous affair with Wright that pulled Mamah Cheney away from her young children, her husband, and their prosperous, comfortable life in Oak Park, Illinois.
Mamah Borthwick was a scholar and feminist when she married Edwin Cheney, and one of the things Nancy Horan does best in this tumultuous novel is to show how the egotistical, charismatic Wright reawakens her desire to be more than simply a mother and wife-to dream dreams impossible for those whose existences are constrained by convention.
Loving Frank is all the more remarkable because it is Nancy Horan's first novel.
I recall becoming acquainted with Frank Lloyd Wright and Oak Park, a Chicago neighborhood, about that time.
I also knew nothing of Wright's family life.
It is odd how one as gifted as Wright was artistically and architecturally could screw up life with his family and his lover so much.
When Mamah has them alone on a train and one becomes ill, she's clueless what to do, wondering what her nanny would do with the child.
Her decision is, in her estimation, not "cruel self-indulgence" but "love for life." The children will be better off with happy parents, i.e. with a selfish mother.
I thought Mamah was incredible; her self-discovery so moving.But as the book progressed, I started to like her less and less.
I didn't think Mamah was either.
Her life was full once she left, but only full of her and I don't think the children benefited from it.
The romantic dialogue, however, was just painful, as were any of the "mushier" passages, whether it was Mamah reflecting on Frank or the last part where he reflected on her.
It took away from what was quite interesting otherwise.My MIL is one of the tour guides for the Frank Lloyd Wright House in Oak Park.
I read Nancy Horan's debut book, because in a few days I will be up in Wisconsin very near some of architect Frank Lloyd Wright's most famous works.
(I found myself looking up pictures online to understand what Horan meant by her poetic turns of structural phrase.) Also, Wright's full history and affect on American architecture are only scattered piecemeal throughout the book, requiring the reader to formulate a biographical timeline that doesn't exist in the book.Perhaps the best part of the book is that Loving Frank helps the reader ponder important questions of about feminism, marriage, and self-destiny.
And since most of the book is fabricated, I can't help but blame the author for turning a grown-up affair into some kind of adolescent "meeting of the minds", "my one true love and soulmate" experience.
I'm not sure, in the end, if the writer was trying to make this romance appear as ridiculous as it turned out, or if she thought this was a truly moving story.
What about focusing on the ending, which was a story in itself?I will say that I tend to dislike books with a lot of descriptive narrative.
I never was aware about the life of Frank Lloyd Wright and Mamah Borthwick..I only knew of his talents as an architect.It was a good read, but how could ANYONE leave their children and run off with another man...to me that was totally irresponsible and unthinkable.She may have re-thought her decision the last time she went to visit her children since they almost totally ignored her and were just being polite, but it was too late.And....the ending....oh my...what a tragedy...my question, though, is this: Did that really happen at Taliesin?
NO SPOILERS!!!If you do no know how the affair between Frank Lloyd Wright and Mamah Borthwick ends up - well then you absolutely must read this book.
When you finish the book you understand each person and what they have gone through.Through page 228:Loving Frank is an engaging book.
However, I just don't think this motto supports Frank and Mamah's relationship!
What did Mamah THINK was going to happen when she ran off with Frank?
If you have read just a teeny bit about this book you know that Frank Lloyd Wright had an affair with Mamah Cheney.
[By contrast, she mostly shies away from describing Mamah and Frank’s trip to Japan (Chapter 42 picks up just after they get home in 1913) – perhaps she felt she didn’t have the firsthand knowledge of Japan to make scenes believable.] But with a very few exceptions, this kept me gripped throughout.Now, if you think you are at all likely to read this book, whatever you do, DO NOT GOOGLE Mamah Borthwick Cheney, or Frank Lloyd Wright’s life in these years.
This is the perfect example of a well done historical novel...
based on facts, the story was very well researched, well-written, and well thought out.
Not to mention an experience thoroughly appreciate what made this ingenious man.
I have long been interested in Frank Lloyd Wright's architecture.
I discovered this book while perusing the library for other biographies of my favorite architect (the nonfiction sort).
Although I realize this is still considered fiction, cross-referencing indicates it was based on facts.
Great story with a shocking ending.
I highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in architecture and design.
Or merely a well-written great story.
No, I didn't love Frank. Wasn't seduced by his character. Maybe this is why I didn't love this novel.
Love, soul mates, sex and romance is always fun to read, and I found Mamah and Frank's time together to be particularly enthralling.
It also provides for thoughtful discussion.As a mother myself, I struggle with her choices concerning her children.
Then again, I don’t think Mamah ever truly wanted the children to be with her full time.
Had Mamah ever reached this same conclusion (at the birth of her second child, after meeting Frank, ….or at any point at all), I could have respected her as a mother and as a woman with more ease.
My lord, what a narcotic!"This fictional books takes its roots in the very real relationship between Architect Frank Lloyd Wright and his mistress, Mamah (may-muh) Borthwick Cheney, once a client of his whose family purchased one of Wright's Prairie-style homes in Oak Park, Illinois.Mamah was a very unusual woman, not just in that she was willing to leave her husband, children, and sister (who lived with the family) for Wright, but also because she was a woman of keen intelligence and spirit.
In realtà Mamah, la bella, adulata e leggendaria Mamah, vive come una reclusa, con tutti i giornalisti americani alle calcagna per via dello scandalo che ha suscitato la coppia libertaria, senza libertà, senza i suoi figli, e, a quanto pare, il peggio deve ancora arrivare.Ecco che mi sgomento; ero prontissima all’ammirazione e trovo amarezza, penso che il piatto Edwin, suo marito, avrebbe forse mostrato più rispetto.
Mi trovo a pensare che questi due amanti sinceri avrebbero vissuto più felicemente nell’adulterio, anzi non so quello che penso, se non che forse che non so cosa pensare...
Nancy Horan's fictionalized version of the true story of the affair between Frank Lloyd Wright and Mamah Borthwick Cheney fills in the raw facts with well-researched context and beautifully expressed emotion.
Anyone who has former knowledge of the outcome of Frank and Mamah's life together knows a terrible end is in store for them, but Horan somehow arranges for it to sneak up on the reader, just as it must have sneaked up on Mamah.
In this way, the author puts readers in Frank Lloyd Wright's place, as we discover the aftermath through his eyes.This book is very well written, and skillfully constructed.
4.5 stars.This work of fiction attempts to tell the story of Mamah Chaney and her love affair with Frank Lloyd Wright.
Frank’s business would not have suffered as it did (but then he would be “freer” to make his own mistakes with no one or nothing to blame).
Mamah would not have needed to hitch her wagon to Frank’s star in order to “find herself and her own fulfillment” in today’s society.
I did not know the story of Frank and Mamah so the ending was a surprise to me and one that left me reeling.
Living in Chicago, I have visited Wright's Home & Studio in Oak Park and Taliesin in Spring Green many times, so I already knew the stories of the great architect's personal tragedies and failings.
Wright's arrogance and disregard for the feelings of others are legendary, and knowing what I do about his later years and subsequent marriage, I couldn't quite persuade myself that Mamah really was the love of his life.
Wright was a professionally arrogant but personally insecure man who needed adoring disciples -- male and female -- around him at all times to reflect his greatness.
By the time I came to the end I knew why - the author does a terrific job of presenting this fictional history (based on fact) unbiased.
I love authors who trust their readers enough to let them make their own judgments and don't feel they need to "help" them.
Nice job of writing.Just curious, (this is totally off-topic), but does anyone else see the lower part of a woman's face reflected in the stained glass in the bottom left of the book cover?
It shows up better on the computer than the actual cover.
I had originally picked this book to use as my Illinois pick for the Around the USA reading challenge, and still will count it for that since Wright's main office was in Chicago during the timeframe of this book, but it also takes place in Italy and Wisconsin.I have seen several people, mostly mothers, rating this book low because they don't like that FLW's mistress, Mamah Cheney, left her children to be with Frank.
There is one character in this novel that I hated far more, and that would be Frank Lloyd Wright himself.
I had no idea what to expect when I started reading this book for my monthly book club. It was a book that has been sitting on my bookshelf for a couple of years and I never got around to reading. I was pleasantly surprised, although it repeated itself alot and I didn't care for Mamah Borthwick much at all I enjoyed reading and learning about Frank Lloyd Wright. The ending of the book was surprising and it made the book so much more enjoyable not knowing anything about his life or what really happened.
This book was brought to my attention several months ago but I didn't seriously consider reading it because I thought it was essentially a biography of Frank Lloyd Wright, the famous architect.
When I end up actually enjoying the mandated book, I appreciate the selection even more.Loving Frank is part factual biography, part fictional novel featuring the life of Mamah Borthwick Cheney's as she fell in love with Frank Lloyd Wright.
If you don't know it, I'm not telling.Although I'm somewhat familiar with his architecture, I knew little (and still know relatively little) of Frank Lloyd Wright's personal life.
Still, it just didn't work for me.Mamah left her husband and children to be with Frank.
This was supposedly all because of her great love for Frank, who designed her and her husband's house.
It was there on paper – she loved him enough to abandon her life, but the feelings just didn't come through.
There were a couple of discrepancies that took my mind from the story, such as her Swedish professor being male on one page, female two pages later.
The story, which follows Mamah's (pronounced "May-muh") perspective, took the author more than seven years to carefully research.
Horan's writing is crisp and beautiful--I felt as though everything I read was what really happened, even though I knew that the author took some liberties with the facts.
She certainly did justice to the memory of her "characters."For days I've been consumed by this delicate and heart wrenching tale.
There I was, almost finished and already planning to give it four stars.
The whole now-I'm-having-nightmares factor knocked my rating down to three stars.
And besides the ending, I loved this story.
All I can say is that the end of this book is disturbing and haunting.
The last 50 pages took me by surprise and kept me glued until the very end!
I didn't know anything about Mamah Borthwick and knew very little about Frank Lloyd Wright, so it was surprising to read what happens in the end.
This book is so much more than a story about an illicit love affair and the scandal it caused--and so much more than the story of Frank Lloyd Wright's years with Mamah.
Makes me want to learn more about Frank Lloyd Wright and whether or not Mamah's influence can still be seen in his later artwork/architecture.
Highly recommend.This is the kind of book that inspires me to write the author to just share how much I loved the book.It is a book of fiction, based on the actual lives of Frank Lloyd Wright and his "girlfriend/mistress".
But ultimately, what fascinated me the most was Mamah and her story and I believe that this novel is really the most accessible account of who she was and what she meant in Frank's life.Nancy Pearl calls these 'Reading Itineraries'---how one book leads you to another and then another.
As I continue to follow this subject, I will share where Loving Frank leads me both in fiction and non-fiction.
It's amazing that a first-time author could pull off a story this thoughtful and nuanced.
Love him, or hate him, he found his intellectual and spiritual equal in the form of Mamah Cheney, the wife of client, Edwin Cheney.
My two minds could never really come to any agreement, but that is the strentgh of the story and the author's depictions of these two forceful personalities.
There are no easy answers for Frank and Mamah, but it was riveting reading as the two of them blazed a path away from convention and toward personal freedom.
