https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38210.The_Art_of_Happiness
I would paraphrase the entire book like this:Cutler -- "So what can every person do to be happy?"Dalai Lama -- "Well this is a really complicated question and we need to look at specific cases in order to answer it fully.
Here are a few basic guidelines ..."Cutler -- "Yeah OK, so can you give me 3 steps that everyone can do to be happy?"Dalai Lama -- (I can hear him sighing through the pages) "Yes, well I've given you some basic guidelines, but it's not a simple 3-step process.
This book is actually written by a psychiatrist and includes extensive interviews with the Dalai Lama about how to be a generally happier person. Parts of the book are really great, and a couple of sections are a little bland, mostly depending on what questions the author is asking. The Dalai Lama's amazing traits come across throughout, however. His pragmatic, logical, and yet also spiritual approach to everything.
I first read this book as a freshman in high school but I've read it again at least twice.
While I recommend reading his biography first, this specific book is about the concept of happiness and how we attain it.
It's not a self-help book but rather a book about how the Dalai Lama believes that people inheritantly have the ability to find happiness but we obstruct it with our immaterial and superficial beliefs.
It made me realize how much society corrupts people's values.
This is one of those few books that I find myself re-opening from time to time.
Dalai Lama believes in fundamental goodness in all human beings, in the value of compassion and kindness, and a sense of commonality among all living creatures.Happiness is determined more by one's state of mind than by external events.Excessive desire leads to greed, which leads to frustration, disappointment, problems and unhappiness.True antidote of greee is contentment - to appreciate what we already have.Relationships are not about just knowing people and superficial exchange, but to really share deepest problems and concerns in forming intimate friendships.
Near at hand was "The Art of Happiness" by Dolly and some doctor guy.
I'm about half-way through (guess I'm 50% enlightened) and it's really quite good.
The problem is not so much what the Big D has to say, but the doctor guy's interpretation or amplification.
The proof is in the pudding and the world would be a pretty tasty place if everyone implemented the best parts of the ideas expressed in this book.
(How was that for a strained analogy?) You don't have to be a Buddhist to get some really good stuff out of this book.
(Which is good, because I HATE cows.)
I love the Dalai Lama and everything he says in this book.
At best, he makes small, often insignificant links between the Dalai Lama's point and western science.
At worst, he purposefully makes himself a sitting duck for "how not to be" and then contrasts his own folly with the wise teachings of the Dalai Lama.
Also, his questions often take the conversation with the Dalai Lama in a completely different, often more obvious and tiresome, direction than I was hoping.
Overall, would have loved this book more as solo meditations by the Dalai Lama, or maybe with an interviewer who had better questions and comments.
He has a particular skill to explain complex issues in simple terms, but then simplicity is one of the essential elements in his way of life.The other issue I had with the author's statement is that I find the approach of trying to create a dogma from a Buddhist point of view a rather ridiculous idea.
2. The author's approach in this book is to try and combine Western science with the Dalai Lama's interpretations/teachings.
Again, this is a flawed approach when early on in the book, the author includes the following quotation:"In trying to determine the source of one’s problems, it seems that the Western approach differs in some respects from the Buddhist approach.
This book always brings me a lot of peace when I read it. It calms me down and puts me at ease. I actually bought this book for josh but spent a lot of time reading it myself and its very enjoyable remind you about all the little good things in life and about what really matters.
This is a book that has to be read slowly and with determination, with many pauses for looking-off-into-the-distance-deep-in-thought. It is not BY the Dalai Lama so much as it is about the Dalai Lama, interviews with him, thoughts on his beliefs and practices. It took me a long time to get through, but I really enjoyed it. I think that if everyone tried to fit a little Buddhism into their lives (not a little Buddhist, but a little BuddhISM), we would all be much calmer and happier, more patient and more understanding.
The Author, being a psychologist, was able to take the Eastern ideas from the Dalai Lama and compare them to a more Western way of thinking.
Although I've seen many of the ideas and thoughts in other books, the Dalai Lama had a way with words that seemed to just -click- with me, and in the sections that I didn't really understand, Howard Cutler, the author, was able to clarify.
This book is good for anyone who may be stuck in the same way of thinking...its a good starter for those who are just getting into 'eastern views'.
“Happiness is determined more by one's state of mind than by external events… Although you may not always be able to avoid difficult situations, you can modify the extent to which you can suffer by how you choose to respond to the situation...”
We all know that some books that felt important and special during a first reading can sometimes make us wonder WHY the second time around.
But this time around I was too distracted by Cutler's questions, statements, and ramblings to be able to focus on the Dalai Lama's words.
All I could think at that point was 'here is this man with the incredible opportunity to talk face to face nearly every day with the Dalai Lama and he is not learning a single thing!'I'm putting this one aside for now.
My star rating is more for the old days than for these, by the way.
Exquisite. He masterfully balances religion and politics while protecting the many who follow him. I have so much admiration for him and respect for the difficulties he gracefully handles.
Dalai Lama’s wisdom comes very handy for everybody interested how to deal with and eventually overcome those barriers and live a happier life.The book starts by exploring the meaning of life, where the stage is set for the following discussions on how to develop capabilities of human compassion, how to treat others, how to deal with suffering, and very importantly, how to overcome all those bad feelings and manners, like anger and hatred – the huge obstacles of happiness.
It’s in our mind, and the book has many keys to it.I like particularly the way that that Dalai Lama doesn’t push hard on the religion aspect in the pursuit of happiness, but stresses on the need for a spiritual dimension in everybody’s life.
It makes me happy to know that my sometimes negative mindset can be trained out of pessimism, and to be aware that there are those out there who have already accomplished this through the help of Buddhist teaching.I think what surprised me the most when reading The Art of Happiness is just how human the Dalai Lama really is, and how for someone who is seen as a spiritual deity of sorts by millions around the world, he is every bit as equal as the "common man", and sincerely goes out of his way to make this idea clear to his audiences.While I may not be converting to Buddhism any time soon, I'd still recommend this book to those suffering from anxiety, filled with a feeling of loneliness, or dealing with any other difficult time in their life.
I'm grateful for the perspective I've been given after completing The Art of Happiness, and I definitely feel this book can help those who need a little boost in their lives.
I really felt at peace while reading this book. I have read many religious texts from varying schools of thought and sometimes (often in fact) they get quite philosphical and over the head of the average person. This however really hit the right note with me. By expounding upon some of the basic tenements of Buddhism, the authors show how practicing kindness, peace of mind and simplicity lead to happiness.
The author is a headshrinker hoping to, well, shrink his discussions with the Lama into a practical program (think dollars and sense) for achieving the nebulous state of “happiness.” “The concept of achieving true happiness has, in the West, always seemed ill-defined, elusive, ungraspable.
I don’t know what public and private circles our author has been navigating but he has set sail without even the most fundamental anchors of life.
Lasting happiness cannot be achieved by mind control or following a 12-step prescribed and paid for program.
There is more to happiness than the mind just as there is more to the human being than the body.
This is one of the best books I've read on leading a spiritual life. The Dalai Lama's statements on habits that can make us deeply happy (and thus peaceful, compassionate and ultimately better human beings) are simple, clear and true, and nousrishing as a drink of pure, clean water in the desert. A book that can change our lives, if we allow its message into our hearts.
I loved the messages of Dalai Lama, but I found Cutler's words irritating!
I just thought, here is a man with a personal audience with the Dalai Lama - - - why is he not learning and putting into practice the things he is hearing?I began to skim Cutler's sections and read the Dalai Lama's sections more slowly.I found the Dalai Lama's messages inspiring.
A great way to look at things.Many other great messages opened my eyes and also reaffirmed personal beliefs regarding charity, tolerance, forgiveness, and other important ideas.A great book regardless of your religious affinities.It is one I will read again.
Beautiful book that doesn't focus on the concept of happiness as such but rather the measures to get there. Happiness is not a place you arrive to, and it stays for life. It's something we must actively seek all the time as we go through changes. This book is very philosophical so don't buy it if you think it gives you a formula for happiness.
It was a book of pleasures. It helped a lot with my process of mind and satisfied my extremely powerful sense of skepticism. Dalai Lama XIV earned my respect, even though I hardly gave it to anyone to this day. It is highly compatible with modern findings of psychology, specially in the realm of CBT. I highly recommend it to anyone... ever!
عالی بود ، کافی بود چند صفحه ازش رو فقط بخونم که پر از حس خوب بشم و بهم یکم نگاه جدید بده. به نظرم کتابیه که باید به آرومی و منظم خونده بشه. خیلی به ذهنم تونست کمک کنه
For example, when we feel anger or hatred, we may think, “Yes, now anger is bringing me more energy, more decisiveness, swifter reactions.” However, when you look closely, you can see the energy brought about by negative emotions is essentially blind.
I doubt whether the energy brought about by negative emotions is really useful.
However, if in our judgment, reached with clarity and awareness, we are led to the conclusion that acceptance would bring greater negative consequences, the we must take the appropriate countermeasures.
This conclusion should be reached on the basis of clear awareness of the situation and not as a result of anger.
The book is comprised of excerpts from the Dalai Lama's public teaching and private conversations (in the interview form) with Howard Cutler.
Here is an excerpt from the introduction: "When I initially conceived if this book, I envisioned a conventional self-help format in which the Dalai Lama would present clear and simple solutions to all of life's problems.
I found that his approach encompassed a much broader and more complex paradigm, incorporating all the nuance, richness, and complexity that life has to offer." This does not mean it is a scholarly text, it's an easy read.
Tikrai taip, šios knygos mane labai įkvepia ir moko.
Nors ant viršelio matome Dalai Lamą ir jis prirašytas kaip knygos autorius - tai nėra visiška tiesa.
Argi nebūtų pasaulis tobulas jei kiekvienas į savo gyvenimą įsileistume šiek tiek budizmo?
Dalai Lama teigia, jog laimė yra įgimta kiekvienam žmogui, jog kiekvienas iš mūsų nusipelnė jos.
Tačiau diskusijoje jaučiama tikra pagarba vienas kitam, ko taip pat dažnam iš mūsų vertėtų pasimokyti.Knygą skaičiau ir nuolat vis rašiau kilusias mintis, patikusias citatas į savo užrašų knygą.
Mano galva, "Menas būti laimingam" yra knyga, kurią skaityti verta bent kelis kartus per gyvenimą.
The main thing I learned from this book is that happiness can and should be a goal in your life.
You can pursue happiness by training your mind over a period of many years.
Gaining a deeper understanding into suffering helps build your compassion, which is a key driver in the art of happiness.
3. Meditate to understand the true nature of your mind.
The biggest key however is the idea that you need to actively practice patience and tolerance.
Standing in long lines, sitting in traffic, being put on hold all present opportunities to train your mind in building the antidotes to overcome negative states of mind.
The only reason that I gave it four, rather than five, stars is that the psychiatrist "co-author" injected way too much of his own personality and experiences into the book.
It was certainly helpful to have a Western personality and native English speaker to edit the conversations so they were easy to follow in book form, but I really think that Dr. Cutler should have restricted his role to that.
But all in all, it was a well-written, well-edited and well-organized introduction to the Dalai Lama's philosophy on daily living, happiness and spirituality, which is what I wanted.
So I'm happy with the book!
For me it is a reference book on living a more peaceful life.
This book changed my life in so many ways.
Not in a physical way, but in a spiritually and emotionally.
We are taught to "fight" for everything and to always do what we can to get ahead.
In the religion I was exposed to we are taught our beliefs are "the only truth".
This book challenged some of my deepest thoughts about living, spirituality, and life.
We really can benefit from learning about other religions.I highly recommend this book.
Would it be an exaggeration to say this book saved my life?
When I was at my lowest, it was this book that I kept by my side, in my bag, and next to my bed, near me at all times.
In this treasure, we learn how to reshape our mental outlook so that we can live easier in this world.
We learn how to find meaning in our suffering, so that things don't seem so dark.
We also learn about the difference between pain and suffering and how the brain interprets each, yet it is all the while readable.
Though I don't expect everyone to overhaul their entire life after reading The Art of Happiness, I think that just about anybody – content with their current life or in dire need of some positive change – can take lessons from this book and make even a small adjustment to their behavior or outlook on the world for the betterment of themselves and the world as a united entity.
I think those with a cynical outlook on life may find it laughable that the Dalai Lama fights so fervently for peace and happiness, for such optimistic concepts seem quite impossible to attain considering today's multitude of social, military, economic, political, societal, and religious quandaries.
