https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241074.The_Tiny_Seed
When powerful grown-ups act like there is no tomorrow, educating the next generation about the fragility of our nature and environment becomes a crucial mission.Once upon a time, when I spent my days in a library full of books and children, and planned my lessons to open their hearts and minds to the natural miracles of our planet, I usually picked this classic by Eric Carle to read to first grade at some point.
It turns into a new plant, and the circle of life can begin again, with seeds flying, and getting lost, until ...Students used to love the fact that the book can be started again from the beginning when the last page is reached, mirroring the eternal circle of vegetation.
How depressing can you get? This book was horribly sad at even the best of times, but in its defense, it's an impressive portrayal of life, death and renewal, and the illustrations are beautiful.
The life cycle of a seed and a flower is the subject for this flower. It is also a study in hope and to keep going even and not be discouraged by the things that don't go the way they think they should.I love the colors Eric Carle uses. This is a fun book.My nephew read this with me. He seemed engaged.
My granddaughter was rooting for the tiny seed. Good book for helping illustrate the life cycle of a plant.
Children can visually see the growth of a seed, through the brilliantly, colourful illustrations which they can enjoy and appreciate, as it balances out the informative text.The children can follow the steps of the cycle throughout the book as Carle creatively includes the four seasons; Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter.
Excellent repetition is included to create meaning for the children’s learning, and it also allows children to join in the reading as they can anticipate what comes next.The teacher can elicit what is happening due to the fantastic graphics thus it is not only a case of the teacher speaking.
It's a cute book about the cycle of a flower, but more importantly about how a child might be small and behind in the beginning, can truly thrive if he keeps on going and trying.
No ... despite all the good ratings I don't like this book at all. A seed on fire because it got burnt by the sun's rays? What?
This "children's" book is about a flower seed.
Soon all the flowers are murdered and the Tiny Seed is the last one.
Not to give away any spoilers or anything, but the Tiny Seed becomes the greatest biggest flower ever.
Anyway, this book deals with the harsh life cycle of the Tiny Seed and his friends.
Rated it 5 stars and would not recommend for children under 13, as it deals with the gruesome life of garden flowers and there is a lot of death and destruction.
The Tiny Seed by Eric CarleA simple story by the author Eric Carle about the life cycle of a tiny seed.
He starts the story in autumn with the journey of the seeds which have just been dispersed into the wind .
The story continues on each page with what happens throughout the year as each seeds looks for the perfect place to land before spring.
The cycle moves to winter where the seeds journey slows down and by spring they are ready to become plants.
The cyclical cycle continues and just as the beginning of the story was the plant dispersing seed the same occurs again.
The illustrations in the book are perfect and leading. They add to the text and create a place for better understanding. I also really enjoyed the story which went along with it. A story about seasons and seeds and their growth. Seeds movement throughout the earth and around the world. It is a very good cool read.
Its the story about the tiny seed journey.In Autum the tiny seed flies across the icy mountain, ocean, desert an finaly down on the ground.
The seeds becomes plant except the tiny seed.In summer the plants from tiny seed grow bigger and bigger..Until autum he wind blow the flower makes the flower's seed pod opens..
Seeds are spreading in many ways, as mention in the book, wind as an example.
Then we can play with children to guess what kind of the plant which the seed can be spread by wind.In this book, we also can teach the children to appreciate the plant, dont take it for granted.
This is a good tool to use to introduce young children to the life cycle of a flower without being overwhelming in detail.This book fosters the development of processes including predicting, classifying, and making inferences.
Also, the book doesn't explicitly say that it's about the life cycle of a flower, children must continue to read in order to discover the meaning behind the tiny seed's journey and a plant's needs.
But because the tiny seed stayed motivated and tried its hardest to achieve its goal, in the end the tiny seed grew into the most beautiful flower.I would give this book at four star rating.
All of the sudden everyone in my class stopped growing and before I knew it, I grew to be the same size as everyone else my age, just like how the tiny seed grew into a beautiful flower.I would recommend this book to readers because many children in elementary school begin to compare themselves to others and if they have qualities that are different or abnormal, the children feel insecure.
Synthesis:The Tiny Seed by Eric Carle is a children's picture book that takes the reader through the life cycle of a plant.
Through fun and colorful illustrations and personifying the seed to make its actions come to life, this book is very informative and entertaining for young readers.Teaching Connections: This book is great for a science lesson on the life-cycle of a seed.
All of the information itself is correct, but the flower that the seed has become is said to be, "taller than the people, taller than the trees, taller than the houses." Since this is such an extreme exaggeration, I feel that it would not confuse students' understanding of flower growthThe book could also be used for an activity on sequencing.
‘The Tiny Seed’, is a beautifully descriptive book describing the journey of a tiny seed and the dangers it faces after being swept up by the wind along with many ‘bigger’ seeds.
Until finally, there is a huge gust of wind and hundreds of tiny seeds are taken into the wind to start their own journey of becoming flowers.This book would be great for KS1 and SEND because it would be a great story to help children understand how a seed becomes a plant, growth and seasons.
What season will come next?* Make a Story Cycle (Language Arts and Science)Draw a large circle on chart paper.
ASk students to retell the story, using the seasons, as a guide to sequence the events.
Share another story with a similar cyclical story structure and encourage children to create their own story circle.* A Tiny Word Wall (Language Arts)Discuss the definition of the word "tiny".
This word wall can be expanded with other frequently used words that children can substitute in their writing.*Garden Patterns ( Math)Duplicate or create small pictures of flowers.
Finally have children create their own pattern and give to a peer to duplicate and expand.
SUMMARY: A tiny seed, smaller than the others, makes a very long journey until it can grow into something amazing.ILLUSTRATIONS: Eric Carle's style is simple, yet rich with color and story.REVIEW: It is important to note that I am reviewing the Level 2 Reader which is NOT the classic original of The Tiny Seed.
One of the things I love about the words in this book is that is does not feel as if they were "dumbed" down to make reading overly simple.
It feels more like the reader has to reach up and grow, just like the seed in the story.
The tiny seed does not go as fast as the other.
The tiny seed is so small that the bird does not see it.
The seed is still small and has not grown into a plant yet.
The tiny seed finally grows but its neighbor grows faster.
However, the neighbor flower is picked and now the plant that was tiny is now taller than the housed and everyone comes to look at it.
I would definitely use this book in a science lesson.
teaching point: I would use this book to teach about the life cycle of a plant.
The Tiny Seed is a simple story about the life cycle of a seed. The story begins in autumn and focuses on the journey of the seeds which have been dispersed in the wind. The tiny seed survives by moving slower than the others, until eventually it is the only seed remaining in the garden and has flourished into a tall plant.  This story would ideally be suited to class aged 5-7. I feel it would capture the class’s imagination from the outset and all should be able to relate to the story. There is
The Tiny Seed is a simple story about the life cycle of a seed.
The story begins in autumn and focuses on the journey of the seeds which have been dispersed in the wind.
The tiny seed survives by moving slower than the others, until eventually it is the only seed remaining in the garden and has flourished into a tall plant.
The students should recognise that the smallest seed eventually became a giant flower.
From a cross curricular perspective this book may be linked to the teaching of the seasons and the growth of plants.
Students may be questioned on what season it currently is?
I used it during the week we decided to grow a seed as a starting point.
It starts off with a seed travelling through various hazardous conditions which have led to some seeds not going through the cycle but one manages to land on an ideal place and is also favoured by good conditions which led to it growing into a big beautiful flower.
Eric Carle has a unique way of bringing life into his books and imparting with information in an appealing way.
Children usually love to point to the seed as it goes through its journey and really get engrossed in the book.
The story begins with a tiny seed, as it is blown by the wind into different weather conditions, as it eventually takes settles into the ground ready to become a flower.
Eventually the flower that has grown begins to die, allowing new seeds to be released into the wind; hence the cycle of a plant begins again.
I would recommend this book for key stage one children – even though the story is quite long, the story will keep children engaged especially by the creative pictures and the intriguing journey of the seed.
This book is great for teaching parts of a plant. Students start to learn about parts of a plant in first grade. This book has great illustration and parts are clear for children to see. They also get to learn about the seasons when plant grows and dies. Teachers could have students plant their seeds and observe it grow into plants. Students can write and draw their observations. This would be a fun and educational hands-on experiment.
My boys were fascinated by this book- a perfect read for springtime! What a celebration of the beauty of plants!
45 months - answers the question why do plants have so many seeds and how come they don't all end up becoming new plants?
The life and journey of a group of seeds as they venture across the globe. Each seed faces it's own challenges and above all odds, the tiniest seed survives to become... (view spoiler)[ A GIANT FLOWER! (hide spoiler)] ...And then the lifecycle begins again.This is Classic Carle. Delightful and colorful pictures and a story that makes learning fun.
The illustrations are the strongest part of this storybook. The plot is far-fetched. Why do the seeds keeping blowing around so long? Why does the tiny seed grow into such an enormous plant? Is this a parable and I'm too shallow to understand it?! Probably. My 8 year old daughter adores this book. Like most Eric Carle creations, it definitely has charm. I just personally wouldn't choose to read this one repeatedly.
Great to use for science- used when learning about plant life cycles and how to care for plants.
While the illustrations are lovely, the writing style is not impressive.
To begin the seeds are flying by the strong wind in the fall season and some get lost in different places like the ocean, dessert and icy mountain.
Everyone admires the seed's flower even the birds and butterflies, but once winter comes the flower begins to lose its leaves and not the seeds exit and process repeats.I will definitely have this book in my classroom as it it not your typical nonfiction book.
It allows for students to hear the story of how flowers bloom from seeds and how the seasons affect growth of plants through a detailed story and not a nonfiction text filled with facts and real life pictures.
The Tiny Seed is a science fiction book.
Then comes spring, and some seeds start to sprout up into plants.
There is a giant flower growing all alone.
Everyone loves the giant flower.
All of the seeds begin to blow and the process will start over again.
I like this book because the illustrations are so colorful and unique.
It also teaches children about the process of plant growth throughout the different seasons.
You could use this book in the classroom while the students plant their own seeds and watch plants start to sprout up as the weeks go by.
