https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191131.The_Pursuit_of_the_Millennium
ISIS AND THE TALIBAN – JUST A LITTLE BIT OF HISTORICAL CONTEXTWhat has been will be again, what has been done will be done again; there is nothing new under the sun.Ecclesiastes 1:9This book is a brilliant account of the really crazy cults which sprang up all over Europe during the Middle Ages.
gosh, I can be so naive) - anyway, from what this book says, for about 600 years that's what all of Europe was like - like a Ken Russell film - and just so Americans don't feel smug, America would have been like it too if Europeans would have gone there sooner.I know that my bookshelf is called History Will Teach Us Nothing, which is a nice Sting song (sorry, what was that?
Cohn qualifies the successes, however fleeting of Millennial cults by stressing how such always appeared in the wake of larger rebellions or movements.
I find it fascinating that so many individuals appeared to be the reincarnations of lost leaders.
I suppose I can understand someone hearing voices and believing they are a prophet or even the divine, but when a number of people claim to be Barbarossa so that a prophecy can be fulfilled, well, that sort of baffles me.
Cohn provides a fascinating account of the history of these movements in Northern Europe.
This came recommended by Ian McEwan in his Five Books selections.
Here's the first paragraph of what he says: "This celebrated book has been in print for over half a century.
It’s a historical account of the fanatical millenarian sects that swept across Europe from the 11th to 15th centuries: sects that were driven by certainty of the world coming to an end.
And when the world ended there would be deliverance for the elect.
They surged across Northern Germany, killing Jews, priests, the bourgeois."You have to page through the article to get to the discussion of this book, but to find the rest of Ian McEwan's commentary on it go to:http://fivebooks.com/interview/ian-mc...
'Tis better to give than to receive, no?While Cohn starts out in a strictly Marxist vein, he branches out to other methods of historical analysis in the later two-thirds of the book.
This section is really compelling history!One of my biggest complaints about Cohn is his assumption that Luke's account in Acts Chapter 4 is an "Imaginary version of the primitive church".
Perhaps Cohn was fearful of being outed as a communist for his analysis of these movements, which often pitted the poor against the rich, so he made certain that it was known that he did not believe that early Christianity actually practiced the commmunal order that they claim to have practiced.
The content is a bit tedious for me, but the arguments and conclusions are enlightening. The history lessons on this book based were taken from Middle Ages period, but their principles are still valid for 21st century.
For the revolutionary millennarians the tale is a bit repetitive, and it usually went like this: a former priest or a hermit with a violent disposition concludes, after meditating for a long time, that he is living at the end of times and that he is God/ he is a god/ he has been chosen by God or a god to lead the just and the good in a final, apocalyptic, war against Antichrist and his followers, to usher in the millennium of the saints announced by John the Divine, prior to the end of the world and the final reckoning.
This is a dense and complicated work that is perhaps best summed up using a portion of its subtitle: "mystical anarchism", for that is truly what is covered here.
What is mystical anarchism?
Stemming out of such diffuse sources as Jewish chiliasm/messianism and the crusader/holy poverty movements (which ironically resulted in free-wheeling anti-Jewish pogroms), mystical anarchism sought to appeal to the masses (read: poor folks) in varying ways (everyone should be poor, especially the high-rolling clergy!; the commons should be held in common per God!, etc)Of particular interest is the smattering of chapters on the "Free Spirit" movement and the Sufi-like mysticism of thinkers like Marguerite Porete.
One of the great books about the human condition.
Leaders of these groups offer simple and often fantasist solutions to all ills, and their followers are all too ready to follow them to their doom, realising only too late that the confines of reality actually do exist.Whilst Cohn never explicitly describes modern-day equivalents of Millenarian cults, it is clear that he refers to Marxists in particular - and to other movements of that ilk - and allows the reader to draw the obvious parallels.
In this book is revealed the underlying truth of mankind, rather than the gloss of this epoch's manner of expressing it.
Read this a few years back now, think it was one of those books going cheap in a cheap bookshop, sounded interesting so got myself a copy to read. Depressing stuff, on the whole I found it dull, most probably the writing and not the subject matter. I think I still own it so might have to re-read one day.
It's the story of disaffected, half-studied priests who set themselves up as gods, of look-alikes who pretended to be long dead kings and emperors returned to life, of the Children's Crusade, the flagellant movement and the Anabaptists who set up a theocractic terror regime in Münster and dubbed it the New Jerusalem.It's an academic work, but the colourful material means it's never a boring read.
Highly recommended for anyone looking to get into the truly alien aspects of medieval European spirituality.
This book has sat on my shelf since I first read it some time in the early 1980s - and I recall being gobsmacked by Cohn's breadth of understanding and subtle grasp of the era and experiences of Europe's medieval Millenarian religious and political movements.
I now often find myself in the parts of central Europe that was the home to many of these movements and the wars fought by them and the established church to bring them into line: as the geography of the past comes to life, I keep returning to this book: it is a foundational text in the way I understand an era and a place.Cohn died in 2007, and became the subject of a fine Guardian obit - http://www.guardian.co.uk/news/2007/a...
One of the first and most readable major books written on the subject of medieval Millenarianism, Cohn manages to make what might seem to the modern reader obscure and baffling heresies into highly engaging historical reading.Having read this, Vaneigem's "The Movement of the Free Spirit" and Ehrenreich's "Dancing in the Streets: A History of Collective Joy" I would say all three are valuable if read in a particular order. Start with Ehrenreich, finish with Cohn and supplement with Vaneigem.
I loved this book! As an analysis of the ideas that permeated the psyche of the Middle Ages, and provided the driving force behind the many movements that give the period its particular character, this book has no equal! The chapter on the Anabaptists alone merits putting everything down just to read it! If you're interested in ideas and history you have to read this!
A rigorous and informative history of millenarian ecstatic movements from the 800s through the 1500s including my favorite, the Anabaptist takeover of Muenster town.
Mostly told in an episodic fashion, every 5th chapter or so steps back and provides a reset in socio-economic stimuli behind these movements.
Told from a perspective on history that is obviously reacting to Marxist events in the authors own time, it concludes by tying medieval eschatological utopian movements with the Marxist drive for utopian end of history, which was a little too tidy for my tastes.
Proto-marxists and anarchocommunists from the Age of Darkness and Plague. Fundamentalists flagellants and pseudokings. Cromwell's era neo-gnostics; & the whole madness before the Renaissance and it's Age of Doubt.
We are experiencing similar madness in the 21st century, including yesterday (11/13/2015)'s attacks in France by the new millenarians: ISIS.
If there was an Islamic Caliphate today, I have no doubt they would exercise their authority to condemn ISIS and their anti-Islamic, murdering, millenarian heresy.
If the Islamic World condemned Christian extremists, it would only have encouraged more conflict.
And here we are today thinking erroneously that Christians can tell Muslims how to behave.The Islamic world, like the far-east, was far advanced compared to Europe in the middle ages.
It is a HUGE FAILURE of historical analysis to omit this fact from our teachings, and exclude half the world from our understanding of human progress.
It deals with the apocalyptic cult movements of Europe in the Middle Ages, with an underlying theme being how the lower classes tended to turn to such radical beliefs when they felt particularly put upon by the secular and religious authorities.
The book of Revelation tells of a struggle between Christians and the Roman Empire, but when the Empire adopted Christianity as its official faith, the idea of the coming millennium of peace and love had to be altered to reflect this development.
None of them lasted, but the same basic idea has arisen throughout history in different forms, usually in times when people feel particularly exploited.
Cohn opens up a whole cosmos of diversity at the heart of supposedly monolithic medieval Europe and infuses conventionally sepia views of ordinary life in the middle ages with a whole raft of colour.There are personal stories, judicious judgements, even-handed treatment of (what is, to moderns) the strangeness of the age, clear exposition of ideas, movements, reactions, and a compelling meta-narrative.
He writes nicely, too.About half-way through reading it the other week I was struck by how little is new under the sun (a comment I believe was anticipated several thousand years ago by a wise man in Ecclesiastes) and how some of the eponymous anarchists resemble the counter-culture movement of the sixties.
Exhaustive-but-readable survey of medieval heretical religious sects back in Western Europe's days as a non-nationalistic, Catholic bloc state.
Fairly astounding how chromatic Cohn's wacked out, zealot Europe looks, especially to those raised to believe American Protestant things, like how happy-go-lucky groups of Puritans left the Old Country to found a gay, breezy land full of pre-destination and free from thick, gloomy papal oppression.
Read it in the terrifying context of 2003's ascendancy of the religious right, the book giving a marauding cast to their faces on CNN, fostering implicit comparisons between spittle-spewing, apocalypse-hungry Rhinelanders and hopelessly wandering ascetics.
[edit; gushing about the amount of information aside, the at times annoying anti-Marxist bias (annoying mainly because he kept making comparisons and disparaging comments about Marxist historians where this was not necessary at all) made me look for reviews by people more accustomed to writing about that sort of thing.
Nevertheless, I still pretty much recommend this book to everyone for the sheer amount of information it contains.
Or anyone planning to write a pseudo-historical fantasy book for that matter.
The amount of information is huge and made me interested in reading more about the heresy of the Free Spirit.
A classic- I was referred to the book via Cantor's the "invention of the middle ages", and once again, I was not dissapointed.
I would imagine this is the standard work on the topic, judging from its continued popularity after being in print for half a century.
The histoiographical method- his use of various sources and willingness to give voice to many which "traditional" history ignored, is most impressive.
Considering that this book was first published in 1957,Cohn was ahead of his time in his presentation of a social history of the "Pursuit of the Millennium".
You could almost call this a history of the "pre reformation".
Classic text.
Es difícil de leer, sobre todo por cómo está dividido el libro que no sigue un orden cronológico sino que persigue distintas temáticas.
Una organización que creo que está organizada para entender el movimiento "igualitario" al que le dedica los últimos cuatro capítulos de un total de 13.
No es extraño este planteamiento para quien se haya leído el prefacio porque avisa que el estudio se centra en el milenarismo de las clases más pobres.
A este respecto, la base bibliográfica sobre la sociedad medieval que maneja en su estudio es posiblemente un poco pobre para mi gusto.
Brilliant overview of revolutionary millenarianism, mystical anarchism and religious dissent in Central Europe between the Eleventh and Sixteenth Centuries. Cohn's work on this subject was the first look at the subject and still the most important. It stands as not only a brilliant view of collectivist Utopianism of the Middle Ages in its historical setting but shows the sociological, economic and psychological roots of that Utopian impulse as it has continued forward to the present day, from both the Left and the Right of the political spectrum. Highly recommended.
I'm glad that I read this ahead of Y2K and the idiocies that surrounded the millennium. Cohn does a masterful job of defusing millennialism and apocalyptic thinking, tracing it through a thousand years of history, and showing it as the root cause for so many of the iconic tragedies of the violent 20th Century. This is a masterwork of psychological history and the dissecting of religious mania. I highly recommend it.
A synthesis of millenarian thought and literature from the Jewish and Christian traditions. An apocalyptic social history of the burgeoning underclass of the High Middle Ages through to Early Modernity. A deep history of the subcultures produced by mystical and eschatological readings of history. A crazy good read if you like reading about people who believe weird things.
A detailed and excellent introduction to religious enthusiasm from 1000 CE - 1530 CE. While Cohn's argument is saturated with the issues of mid twentieth century liberal democracies, it is still an enlightening commentary on the ways premodern issues still frame issues with respect to religion, nationalism, and scapegoating.
Still a seminal book which shaped the view of the Middle Ages and is still both essential reading and good history. I first read this at University as the basis for understanding the Europe of the Middle Ages and the avoidance of the simplistic assumptions of school level history.
So Many Dead
Memorial stars ... so long has it been.
I think I was first made aware of the book as a source for Dan Carlin's HARDCORE HISTORY episode about Münster, "Prophets of Doom." PURSUIT is a relentless look at how and why medieval Europe kept spitting out prophets of the End Times with such whacky, but consistent, views about how the righteous poor will slaughter the aristocrats, the clerics, the Muslims, and the Jews, before inaugurating the Millennium of equality under Heaven.Medieval times were *crazy*.Whether or not we can see similar tendencies in modern society is left as an exercise for the reader.
