https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/224538.Moominpappa_s_Memoirs
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Jansson's decision to switch to a first-person perspective enlivens this darling account of young Moominpappa navigating one quirky adventure after another.
Det kan ju vem som helst, sa jag.Hm, sade Fredrikson.Hur som helst, Joxarens inställning förefaller mig på något sätt slarvigt, jag menar det där att bara leva.
Som jag ser saken är man hela tiden omgiven av massor med viktiga och betydelsefulla saker som borde upplevas och tänkas ut och erövras, det finns så fullt av möjligheter att nackhåret reser sig på ända när jag tänker på dem - och i mitten sitter jag själv och är naturligtvis det allra viktigast.(My translation)When Fredrikson relieved me at the tiller towards dawn, I mentioned in passing Joxaren's inexplicable and total lack of interest in what went on around him.Hm, said Fredrikson.
Anyone can do that.Hm, said Fredrikson.At any rate, Joxaren's attitude seems somehow irresponsible to me, I mean this business of just existing.
It seems Jansson went back and rewrote and added bits to the original not long after its first English translation was published.
Moomintroll, who, along with Sniff and Snuffkin is hearing the memoirs read aloud, sums it up pretty well:"Pappa," said Moomintroll, "did one really talk in that unnatural way in those days?"I quickly decided that I would enjoy this book much more reading it to myself, and for a few nights "forgot" to continue where we'd left off (harsh, I know).On picking it up for myself, I found that ironically, after that highly ponderous first chapter, the fast-paced story I remembered got started.
Mieheni luki tätä minulle yhden luvun illassa ja minä värittelin tai piirtelin samalla. :) Olemme täysin samaa mieltä siitä, että Muumit ovat ihan parhaita ääneenlukukirjoja! Seuraavaksi on tietysti vuorossa Muumilaakson marraskuu. Otimme myös tavoitteeksi käydä ensi keväänä Tampereen Muumimuseossa. :)
Mazāk ēverģēlību - vairāk pārdomu - tās ir labākās Muminu grāmatas, un šī bija lieliska! Varoņu raksturi ir tik dzīvi, tik pazīstami.
Near the end of the book, as his fellow adventurers begin to settle down into careers and get married (or otherwise paired off) Moominpappa despairs that his life of adventure is probably over.
In fact, I think Jansson captures the introvert personality quite well in all her books.
(Snufkin's need to frequently withdraw from people is one clear example.) Moominpappa is me.
Through her whimsical cast of non-human characters, Jansson has captured the human experience, in stories that have you nodding along and saying "Yes, life is just like that." If this hadn't been a library book, I would have been highlighting passages on nearly every page.
As far as Tove Jansson's work goes, Moominpappa's Memoirs may be better suited for the more mature and philosophical children (or nostalgic adults like myself).
And while Moominpappa is always one to linger on internal monologue, these introspective moments come off as silly rather than cumbersome.For those who haven't yet had the pleasure of entering Tove Jansson's fantastical world, my advice is pick up another of the books first — I highly recommend starting with Finn Family Moomintroll — and then return to Moominpappa's Memoirs down the road.
Reading through the Moomin books, which I somehow missed when a child, is my summer reading for this year. There is more in these than your average summer read and a delightful way to pass hot or stormy days.
Muminki to Muminki ♥
Muminpapa ist eine der wenigen Figuren, die ich weniger leiden kann - ich glaube, weil er sich selbst einfach immer viel zu wichtig nimmt, ist er mir schon früher etwas unsympathisch gewesen.
Trotzdem gefielen mir die fantasievollen Episoden aus seiner Jugend sehr gut, auch die Freunde, mit denen er damals unterwegs war und die Kreaturen, denen er damals begegnete.
Wie es aber Muminpapas Art ist, übertreibt er an vielen Stellen sehr, was einerseits witzig ist, mir andererseits aber auch das ein oder andere Augenrollen entlockte.
Wunderbar war es dennoch und irgendwie auch ganz anders, als die anderen Muminbücher, die ich bisher gelesen habe.
Cute cute cute. I listened to this on Spotify, Tove Jansson was narrating it and that was really good. It brightened up my time on the buss.
Yksi parhaita muumikirjoja!
Er i denne boka vi møter de mer obskure karakterene Sausedyret og Fjomsedyret (Sniffs foreldre)."De ble begeistret for hverandre ved første øyekast og har byttet knapper (red.
anm: de er begge utrolig begeistret for knapper) og løpt rundt og vært fjollete i et kjør".
Her har fjomsedyret gått rundt i hele boka og tenkt på knapper hele jævla tida, ingen bryr seg og alle bare "knapper okei wth", så kommer sausedyret og bare er også dritinteressert i knapper?
Dette er en objektivt feil mening, ettersom den fjerde boka i serien både er svært hyggelig lesning og inneholder mye av den absurde og mangefasetterte Tove Jansson-humoren.
Tämä jäi lukukokemuksena minulle hieman valjuksi. Olen joitakin muumikirjoja lukenut aikaisemmin (Muumipaapa ja meri, Pyrstötähti jne), mutta tästä puuttui joku "taika". Ja silti paikoin erittäin hauska ja oivaltava. Lempihahmokseni nousi kummitus/aave, joka oli niin sisällä omassa todellisuudessaan ja maailmankuvassaan, että hänen kaikki kommenttinsa dialogeissa oli paikoin hassusti absurdia.
My goodness, parents show up! :-D
Not surprisingly, Jansson’s gentle sense of humor transforms everything, and Moominpappa becomes adorable in the end:“Let me stop here, at this remarkable turning point of my stormy youth, let me close my Memoirs at the moment when the most wonderful of Moomins comes into my life!
Since then my follies have been supervised by her gentle and understanding eyes, and thereby transformed into sense and wisdom while, however, losing none of the enchantment and love of freedom that have led me to write them down.”Awwww!
We’re smitten by the relationship between the Moomin parents.Hats off to Jansson for her illustration of underwater action on page 134.
This is one of my all time favourite books.
This is the edition I read as a child whilst swinging in a hammock on summer holidays at our farm.
It was the first Moomin book I had read, although it is not the first in the sequence.
I'm so grateful to have been introduced to the work of the stellar Tove Jansson as a child, because her work for children and adults has given me immense pleasure over the years.
The underlying message in all of the work I have read by Jansson is to live life to the full and love it, despite its complexity, irrationality, troublesomeness and scary bits!
The Moomin books are all quite odd, but this was the oddest so far.
Perhaps it was just because the narrative style is different than the others, but there's other things: for example, one chapter ends like this: "'Nibling,' I said to end this surprising conversation, 'what'll your mother say when she finds that you've run away?''She'll cry, I believe,' said the Nibling." And that's it.
That's the end of the chapter.
It's so surreal, sometimes I felt like I was reading it in a dream.
That being said, I really enjoyed this book and the ghost is now one of my top favourite characters in literature.
I loved getting to read Moominpappa's memoirs -- such escapades, such oddness, such fun!
:) Moominpappa has quite a "feel" to his storytelling.
Also the Joxter was fun -- nice to know where Snufkin's slightly lawless ways originated.
;) So much fun!
And I especially loved how the memoirs would pause occasionally as Moominpappa is interrupted in his reading by Moomintroll, Sniff, and Snufkin, as they ask questions about the story and their various daddies' adventures.
Loved that!
And the way that it all came together at the end was marvelous.
:D The Moomin books are just loads of bizarre whimsical fun.
Todella riemastuttava pieni kirja Muumipapan nuoruusvuosista! Piirretyn tv-sarjan katsomisesta on kulunut jo sen verran aikaa, että osa näistä tapahtumista ja hahmoista on päässyt unohtumaan, mutta tässä kirjassa ne kertautuivat hyvin. Kirja oli täynnä mitä hassuimpia otuksia ja voi vain ihmetellä, miten loistava mielikuvitus Tove Janssonilla on ollut. Ja ei, hänen kirjoitustyylissäänkään ei ole mitään moitittavaa, päinvastoin. Suosittelen ihan jokaiselle ikään ja sukupuoleen katsomatta!
Tenhle díl Muminka mě bavil zatím snad nejmíň, a mojí čtyřletou dceru též - vyprávění o tatínkově mladí, často psané nadnesenými a dětem vzdálenými slovy, nebylo tak zábavné a poutavé jako předchozí díly, ale byla tam samozřejmě i řada světlých bodů - lepitlapkové, Mimla a její děti, strašidlo, Eduard a v neposlední řadě Bedřišek a jeho vynálezy - díky nim si příběh asi nejvíc užil můj šestiletý syn :)
Moominpapa's Memoirs = The Exploits of Moominpapa. I love the Moomins! Re-read because I needed a joy break. Forgot how stunning her artwork is--amazing! This book has such a lovely ending too. So satisfying,
I like how Moominpappa is so shy about his high opinion of himself sometimes and then at other times he just says things like "I was born under special stars... I was found in a small sea shell padded with velvet.":-) and "Does he resemble me?" but at least he whispered that.
Voi miten ihana, viehättävä ja mahtava Muumi-kirja tämä oli! Papan mahtaileva tyyli, kaikki isät ja lopulta äiditkin toivat muumitarinaan aivan oman syvyytensä, ja tämä oli jollain tapaa jo noita muutamaa aiempaakin filosofisempi ja pohdituttavampi. Tykkäsin, rakastin, ehkä muumeista ihanin.
love it
The most funny of all the Moomin books I read so far. I love the melancholic darkness which permeates the series, but this one is just hilarious fun. Loved it.
This was absolutely delightful and probably my favorite Moomin book so far.
Kaipasin ikävään viikkoon jotakin tuttua ja turvallista, joten luonnollisesti hyllystä tarttui luettavaksi Muumikirja! Hämmästyksekseni huomasin, että muistikuviini oli piirtynyt niin voimakkaasti muistot tv-sarjan versio Muumipapan urotöistä, että kirjan tarina tuntui paikoin lähes vieraalta.En edes muista kuinka monesti olen kaikki Muumit lukenut läpi, joten tämä 'vieruus' oli viehättävä huomio. Ainakaan Muumipapan tarinaan en siis pääse kyllästymään!
So cute!
The Memoirs of Moominpappa is again wonderfully illustrated and a lovely book to add to my hardback collection!This book focuses on Moominpappa himself and his life and while this is still an enjoyable read, I found I missed the involvement of the other characters like Moominmamma, Moomintroll, Snork and the Snork-Maiden.
The book centres around Moominpappas journey at sea, and I found this section to be a lot longer than necessary!
Whilst still a good Moomin read, I felt the middle section could have been more exciting and the writing style was different from the last two!
