https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141860.The_Science_Fiction_Hall_of_Fame
After an hour or so of clicking, here's a preliminary top list:George Orwell, 1984: 3925Aldous Huxley, Brave New World: 3472Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, 1349Kurt Vonnegut, Slaughterhouse Five: 853Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged: 787H.G. Wells, The Time Machine: 776Isaac Asimov, I, Robot: 657Ursula K.
LeGuin, The Left Hand of Darkness: 502H.G. Wells, The War of the Worlds: 479Ursula K.
Heinlein, Stranger in a Strange Land: 362H.G. Wells, The Island of Doctor Moreau: 316Isaac Asimov, Foundation Trilogy: 298Kurt Vonnegut, Cat's Cradle: 292C.S. Lewis, That Hideous Strength: 264Frank Herbert, Dune: 243Jules Verne, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea: 213Ursula K.
Of all the many science fiction books I swiped from my dad when I was a teen, this anthology was one of the best: 26 classic SF short stories, first published between 1929 and 1964, and written by many of the great SF authors of that age: Asimov, Heinlein, Clarke, Sturgeon, Zelazny, and so on.
The Roads Must Roll (Robert Heinlein)(tie) Mimsy Were the Borogoves (Lewis Padgett)(tie) Coming Attraction (Fritz Leiber)(tie) The Cold Equations (Tom Godwin)Well.
It's still one of my favorite SF short story collections of all time, and one of the main reasons I've been a lifelong fan of science fiction.Thanks, Dad.
All of the stories were selected by the Science Fiction Writers of America (SFWA) and contains an almost unimprovable collection of SF tales from the pre-1965 era.....with two minor gripes.
However, if I HAD to choose a top 5 it would probably  be as follows: (1) The Country of the Kind, (2)Flowers for Algernon and (3)That Only a Mother, each for the deeply emotional impact these stories had on me (runner ups in the emotional torrent category would go to The Cold Equations and Huddling Place); AND(4) A Martian Odyssey and (5) Scanners Live in Vain, these two for their ability to immerse the reader so completely in a brilliant conceived and very alien environment.
hmmm, isn't it odd that the ones I'm reading now are all the really frankly ridiculous ones and all the stories I read way back when were the great mindblowing ones.This made me think that old sf maybe doesn't travel through time well, and like old music, it now has surface noise and poor attitudes.
Take "The Weapon Shop" by A E Van Vogt.
The good guys in this story have a slogan:THE RIGHT TO BUY WEAPONS IS THE RIGHT TO BE FREEActually that does make A E Van Vogt look like a master prognosticator.
Told in the form of correspondence between a husband and wife during World War III about the birth of their first child, the story is an interesting one with one of those endings that stays with you long after you've moved on to the next story in the collection.Scanners Live in Vain, by Cordwainer SmithI've not read a lot of Smith's output, but I'm told he's great.
I'd read it before as part of that collection and while it's good, it's not one of my favorite stories from that set.The Little Black Bag, by C.
These include stellar masterpieces like Boucher's "The Quest for Saint Aquin," Van Vogt's "The Weapons Shop," Weinbaum's "A Martian Odyssey," and Keyes' "Flowers for Algernon;" solid works such as Asimov's "Nightfall," Bradbury's "Mars Is Heaven!" and Zelazny's "A Rose for Ecclesiastes;" and (speaking of clunkers), Heinlein's "The Roads Must Roll." The latter case is a good example of an instance where a writer is recognized here for a story vastly inferior to another, or others, that he wrote (the male pronoun reflects the fact that only one woman, Judith Merril, was represented here; the genre in the pre-1965 era was male-dominated, but one can't help but think that C.
Yes, this is an old book, and some of these short stories show their age, mostly because of what their authors assume culturally.
In the earliest stories, men are the explorers, the warriors, the scientists, hell, even the crazies, by and large.
Still, that was the society of the day, and most art is part and parcel of the era it's created in.
So does "Flowers for Algernon" and "The Nine Billion Names of God." I recognized other stories as source material for the original Star Trek and The Twilight Zone.
Most of these short stories are not high art, but they are fun to read, and that's what counts.
Heinlein, Isaac Asimov, Alfred Bester, James Blish oder Cordwainer Smith beeinflusst wurden, Autoren dieser Goldenen Ära der SF...Die erste Geschichte von Cordwainer Smith "Scanner leben vergebens" ("Scanner live in Vain") wird in der Leserunde des SFFS im September 2018 besprochen und wird deshalb hier von mir näher beleuchtet.Die Story gilt als eine der ersten Geschichten aus Smith Future History, der "Instrumentalität der Menschheit".Die "Instrumentalität der Menschheit" deckt mehrere Jahrtausende des Fortschritts der Menschheit in einer Far-Future Zukunfsgeschichte ab.
Schiffe, die durch photonische Winde segeln, die aber nur durch Scanner navigiert werden können, ansonsten droht der Tod. Scanner sind Menschen, die durch eine spezielle Technologie in Stücke geschnitten wurden und danach wieder zusammengesetzt werden.
I have an old hardback from the library from back when I was a teen & I've read through all of these stories numerous times over the years both here & in other anthologies.
Almost all of the stories are incredibly good.
"It’s a Good Life" by Jerome Bixby is probably the scariest & would fit well in as horror story.
"Flowers for Algernon" by Daniel Keyes is super, but sad, & the movie "Charley" was a fantastic rendition for the silver screen."The Little Black Bag" by C.
I wouldn't be surprised to find out that the stories here are some of the most published.


1) They were like listening to old time radio shows from the past only better since the narrative was spoken, 2) Each story gave an incredible peek into the time period they were written in.
More fun than old time radio, stories with meaning that transcend the ordinary, and a historical window that was more edifying than time travel and a perfect bed time companion, one cannot ask for more than that with ones entertainment!
Heinlein's Story "Die Straßen müssen rollen" z.B. hat mich mein ganzes Leben begleitet, weil sie einen atemberaubenden Technologischen Level aufzeigt, aber auch weil sie die Grenzen des Wachstums anritzt und die Energiekrise thematisiert, alle Stories zeigen spekulative Weltentwürfe, oder sind einfach skurril und zeigen den "Sense of Wonder", der in diesen frühen SF-Stories aus jeder Zeile atmet...Obwohl diese Geschichten alle in unzähligen Anthologien oder Collections der Autoren veröffentlicht wurden, ist es Golkonda gelungen, sie wieder ins Licht der Öffentlichkeit zu bringen in einem wunderschönen Band....
Old school science fiction! ♥️

Meager gedankenexperiment."Helen O'Loy" Lester del Rey: Cutesy tale appropriately turned into a sentimental Twilight Zone episode."Microcosmic God" Theodore Sturgeon: Had me all atwitter with the excitement of scientific endeavor--as a teen--and i wanted to become a scientist/astronaut.
Every time i've read this story, i've expected a different ending, the only different ending that seems worthwhile, and it never changes, and still i want it to be different, every time.
Keyes consistently represents the narrator's voice as it changes from "dumb" to "smart." At the least, i recommend reading the short story."A Rose for Ecclesiastes" Roger Zelazny: I shied away from this one for a long time because childhood friends loved it so much.
Wie bei Golkonda üblich bekommt man ein sehr schönes Buch mit Klappenbroschur.Hinter »Scanner leben vergebens« verbirgt sich die erste Geschichte von Cordwainer Smith und sie spielt in seinem Universum der »Instrumentalität der Menschheit«, das ich leider praktisch nicht kenne.
Dies ist eine Zukunft, in der der Großteil der Menschen verdummt ist, weshalb auch Utensilien wie eine Arzttasche so gemacht werden müssen, dass jeder sie bedienen kann.Richard Mathesons »Menschenkind« ist eine der Geschichten aus den 50er Jahren, in denen es um Mutanten geht – ausgelöst durch die Angst vor dem Atomkrieg.
This compilation of the best stories of science fiction writers between the years 1929-1964 by the members of the Science Fiction Writers of America published in 1970.
And holy shark repellent, Batman, it feels very, very oriented around straight, white male perspectives.
Cordwainer Smith's Scanners Live In Vain spoke to me about instances where collective decision making for the benefit of one's group isn't necessarily the moral choice in face of change.
The underdevelopment of the "Neoterics" in Theodore Sturgeon's Microcosmic God interested me in that as a reader, I was expecting something more post-colonial (but it was published in 1941, so I shouldn't be so surprised).
Campbell - Twilight: On the other hand, this story, though written in 1934, still holds up as a creepy and very effective account of the end of mankind, not as a burnout but as a fade away.Lester del Rey - Helen O'Loy: Ridiculously sexist, in a way that's kind of quaint (given that it was written in 1938), but it's telling that voting in the late 1960's, the SFWA decided that this was one of the best sci-fi stories of all time.
It's comprised of the 26 stories voted into the "Science Fiction Hall of Fame" as the best in the genre under 15,000 words by the Science Fiction Writers of America.
If I was forced to name a top five...1) "Nightfall" by Isaac Asimov - One of those stories that made me fall in love with science fiction--this story I had read long before--and absolutely deserves listing as among the best.
Truly, if you like or are curious about science fiction at all, I'd call this one not just a must-read but a must-buy.
The Science Fiction Hall of Fame – Volume One is a collection of mainstream American science fiction short stories, chosen because they might have won a Nebula Award if there had been one when they were first published.
As short stories, the collection is superb, but the fiction is more impressive than the science.
The subtitle of the book is The Greatest Science Fiction Stories of All Time Chosen by the Members of the Science Fiction Writers of America.
Only one story was wrongly labelled as example of science fiction.
This in itself is something of a weakness, as arguably some of these writers wrote more than one story that is superior to at least some of the other selections in this book, so genuinely representing the greatest is sacrificed somewhat to breadth of representation.
That said, it does gather together a great many excellent stories by a great many writers (quibbles about some of the specific story selections aside--and there are other instances than those above where I'd have selected a different tale than the one included), so it still can serve as a very good introduction to classic SF, if not as what it claims itself to be.
As always, you may also find this review on Books, Vertigo and Tea.Clocking in at over 28 hours, The Science Fiction Hall of Fame was an incredibly easy listen that seem to fly by over the course of a few days.
Offering a wider range of stories accompanied by varying narrators, I quite enjoyed my time with this collection.While it is always difficult to review anthologies (particularly of this size) I did want to share a few thoughts on this one, as many have been such a miss for me lately.
Each story feels unique and challenges the reader (listener) on some varying emotional level.
Tweel. I want a friend like Tweel. That’s all I’m going to say about the content of this AMAZING collection of stories because if you like sci-fi even just a little, you should read this book! I usually give books away after I’ve read them, but I will keep this one. I know I’ll read it again and share it sparingly. I adored this book.
Other highlights: Blish's "Surface Tension" with the ethereal, impressionistic quality of its setting has held up well; Heinlein pokes holes in a popular image of the future with "The Roads Must Roll"; two straight horror stories, Matheson's "Born of Man and Woman" and Jerome Bixby's "It's A Good Life" (though I prefer the Twilight Zone adaptation), and a melding of sci-fi and horror in Asimov's clever "Nightfall" and Bradbury's "Mars is Heaven"; Sturgeon's "Microcosmic God"; C.M. Kornbluth's "The Little Black Bag"; Lewis Padgett's "Mimsy Were the Borogoves", though it's a bit silly.
Overall quality of the stories takes a big jump after the war.
Stories attempting emotionality, like Tom Godwin's "The Cold Equations" and Zelazny's "A Rose for Ecclesiastes" often come off schmaltzy or contrived.
And of course I had to wonder where the heck "What's It Like Out There?" by Edmond Hamilton had disappeared off to (another one of my alltime faves).
Taken as a great big scifi anthology though--filled with a bunch of great stories--you're hardly ever likely to improve on this one.This was one of the first SF books I ever got--all part of the 3-for-a-dime introductory offer from the SF Book Club way back when (and I remember you actually had to tuck a dime into this little flap thingie on the return postcard).
My dad--hardly a scifi fan--even read the whole thing cover to cover himself.I lost my original copy, but then--fortunately enough--I came across another at a library book sale, with that same memorably cheesy dust jacket and all!
Starting in 1966, the Science Fiction Writers of America began presenting annual Nebula Awards for the best novels and short stories.
A few years later, they decided to go back and do a retrospective on the best stories published before '66.
This is that collection, and it is damn good.
Zelazny), along with stories and authors that have been mostly forgotten.
The quality is universally high, and while some of the stories are dated--particularly the gender politics--you can watch the evolution of the genre in terms of theme, literary merit, and intellectual complexity from year to year.
I discovered this book one day on my father's bookshelf.
I don't even think it belonged to him because he's never had any interest in SciFI.
For me in 1980 though, it had a significant impact.
It is filled with some of the most amazing stories I've read in short form.
It was like having a season of the twilight zone in book form.
Del Rey, Heinlein, Sturgeon, Asimov, Bradbury, Clarke, Zelazny and other gradmasters of the genre are represented here with award winning stories like Flowers for Algernon and A Rose for Ecclesiastes Worth reading if you can find it.
This is arguably the best anthology of early science fiction short fiction ever published. In the early years short fiction dominated the field rather than novels. Every story here is a classic, and I've read most of them many times. Some, like Asimov's "Nightfall," Brown's "Arena," and "Flowers For Algernon" by Keyes, are still well-known and easily available, but there are many other stories and authors here that should be remembered, too. My personal favorites are the Zelazny, Leinster, and van Vogt.
Not as good as I'd anticipated. It contains some real clunkers from my perspective. Amongst the stories new to me, my favorite is "The Weapons Shop" by A.E. van Vogt. I had already read Fredric Brown's "Arena" and Daniel Keyes' "Flowers for Algernon" -- both wonderful classics. Asimov's "Nightfall" is maybe just a notch below these two.
