https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120158.Memento_Mori
I almost ordered Memento Mori by my favourite sparkling lady, until I heard a voice inside me calling gently:"Remember WHAT you have read!"As if a stranger had taken it upon himself to call me in the middle of my everyday business to tell my aging, unreliable brain what I shouldn't have forgotten, I repeatedly saw a scene from this novel popping up from nowhere in my mind.
I do hope I remember to do that tonight.In an attempt to organise my thoughts on this novel, which I have read and forgotten and re-remembered and which I am now reviewing for further proof of its existence in my mind, alphabetical or otherwise, I stumble upon the LAST page as well.
There is her husband, Godfrey Colston, the brewery magnate, now retired, whose adulteries never seem to go farther than a fugitive glimpse of ladies' stockings and garter clips, and even this may overstimulate him.
There is Percy Mannering, the slobbering old poet and grandfather of 23 year old Olive Mannering, one of Godfrey's "whores." There is Eric Colston, the son, a loser, who may be based on Spark's own son, Robin, who fought with his mother tooth and nail, publically excoriating her for being a bad mother.
There is the avaricious old servant Mrs. Pettigrew who is blackmailing Godfrey with his old adulteries.
But I loved the less charming cast members almost as much: dreadful Dame Lettie Colston and her tightly-wound brother Godrey; predatory Mrs. Pettigrew; perverse, quietly decent Guy Leet and his cantankerous poet frenemy Percy Mannering; Granny Barnacle and Granny Valvona; and especially Alec Warner, retired sociologist, calm and careful, obsessed and quietly tragic, unconsciously creating mayhem with his not-so-innocent questions and notifications.Spark has such a pleasant style when dealing with such potentially heavy themes, much like Alec Warner himself: calm and careful, obsessed with memory, quietly tragic beneath the very dry humor, subtly mining the unconscious of her creations and the mayhem they continue to create around them and within themselves.Synopsis: a wide range of seniors begin receiving mysterious calls from a wide range of callers unknown, all who repeat the same admonition: "Remember you must die." Indeed!
The protagonists are in their 70s and 80s and Spark takes us round genteel nursing homes, long stay hospital wards, upper class dining rooms and into the realm of sometimes tyrannical servants.
“Then linked to that her husband talks to the group of friends receiving the calls:“If I had my life over again, I should form a habit of nightly composing myself to thoughts of death.
It's nothing to get in a knot about, of course, but I want the conscientious reader to be wary: I am a heathen.Muriel Spark's Memento Mori was a 'So What?' book for me.
I should add here—in this review that's already chockfull of caveats, disclaimers, and asides—that I am not a fan of seeking a 'point' in art, be it painting or music or film or books or whatever.
I'm using the word 'point' here as a unfortunately misleading abbreviation for what I actually mean: After I was finished reading Memento Mori, I was left wondering why Muriel Spark had bothered to the tell this story to us (i.e., me).
I suppose I’m in no position to judge how accurately the characters are drawn, given I’m a mere slip of a 47-year-old thing.
All our friends are going or gone and we survive amongst the dead and the dying as on a battlefield.” And as I said, all the main characters are at least that old.On the other hand, the prose is thickly laced with equally brilliant and far funnier passages, such as: Mrs. Anthony knew instinctively that Mrs. Pettigrew was a kindly woman.
Her instinct was wrong.And this: Lisa Brooke died in her seventy-third year after her second stroke.
It was probably more that they thought it looked awesome, which it does.Anyway, memento mori is Latin and it translates as "Remember you must die," which is what a voice on the phone keeps saying to all these dotty old people in Muriel Spark's weird book.
I tried so hard with this, my second voyage into the strange world of Muriel Spark. Try as I might, I cannot get on with her, or her style of writing. There were a small handful of amusing moments, but for the majority of the book I was left wishing it was all over. I won't be reading her again.
I thoroughly enjoyed my second foray into the startling world of Muriel Spark, having previously read, and liked, 'The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie' a few years back.
The reactions to these calls are varied and interesting, and reveal a range of different character types.
There’s plenty of sly humour, and Muriel Spark is wonderfully unsympathetic towards her motley crew of characters.
I am resolved to read more books by Muriel Spark in the near future.And, whatever you do remember....
Without an ever-present sense of death life is insipid."4/5

Many people and organizations have marked the occasion from Ali of HeavenAli's year-long read-a-long #ReadingMuriel100 to Virago Press publishing a beautiful new edition of “Memento Mori” (that also celebrates this essential publisher's 40th anniversary) to Adam's video commemorating Spark's birthday (his booktube channel is even named after this Spark novel.) My own interest in Spark's fiction unfortunately stopped early on as I've only previously read “The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie”, "The Driver's Seat" and “The Finishing School” in 2004, the year it was published.
The theme of the book is the message stated in the title.
Character portrayal is not the focus of the book.
Most often as one nears the end of a book a few central characters stand out.
You understand the message long before, and since what happens to each character doesn't matter, because you are not emotionally tied to them, the reader gets bored by the detailed documentation of each character’s fate, i.e. death, with which the book concludes.
I appreciate that each one of her books have a different theme, even if most of them do seem to hold a mystery, contain a murder or two and are written with humor.
I love the slightly eccentric response of Charmian who simply says ' Thank you Darling' to the caller whom she describes as a 'nice young man'.
The whole gamut of human types are here; the foolish, the jealous, the bitter, the unfaithful; the generous, the patient, the noble, the gentle and so many more.
The amazing thing is Muriel Spark wrote this novel about octagenarians and beyond when she was a young woman.
I often wonder how she would have written it if this was one of her last novels written when she was a Grande Dame of letters herself.
The blurb on the back of my paperback copy by Stephen Schiff of the New Yorker calls Memento Mori "A complex, beautiful, and terrifyingly insightful novel about old age." This is spot on!
I was surprised to see that Muriel Spark was only 41 when she penned this because it seems to really get at the heart of being in your seventies and eighties.
The complicated web of relationships between the characters and how each responds to the caller are what make up the heart of the novel.This was my first Muriel Spark novel but it won't be my last.
My first Muriel Spark book and an absolute delight from start to finish.
What to say of the novel?It is primarily about old people and their obsession with the Death.
"If I had my life over again I should form the habit of nightly composing myself to thoughts of death.
It should be part of the full expectancy of life.
Without an ever-present sense of death life is insipid."These ideas are narrated in a wonderful story where almost all the characters are above seventy.
The story itself is narrated in an excellent manner.
It almost runs like a spooky crime thriller.
Crime thriller also has many funny and witty moments.
Πρώτη απόπειρα να διαβάσω Muriel Spark και δυστυχώς ήταν αποτυχημένη. Προσπάθησα να πιεστώ λίγο, να συγκεντρωθώ περισσότερο, να μην προσπερνάω προτάσεις και παραγράφους, αλλά τελικά δεν κατάφερα να μπω ποτέ στο κλίμα του βιβλίου. Πολλά ονόματα, με πολλές ιστορίες ο καθένας και στην τελική δε μου έμεινε και κάτι ουσιαστικό από όλο αυτό που διάβασα, ούτε πέρασα καλά. Κρίμα, γιατί σαν υπόθεση μου είχε κινήσει το ενδιαφέρον! Παρόλα αυτά, ίσως στο μέλλον δώσω μια δεύτερη ευκαιρία στη Spark με κάποιο άλλο βιβλίο!
The first geriatric comedy in a genre of two, the other being B.S. Johnson’s House Mother Normal, Spark’s attempt has more actual text on its pages than B.S.’s, the bulk of that text being amusing and cunning stuff.
As I was reading the book, I wasn’t sure I liked it that much but, having now finished and reflected on it, I feel rather differently and have come to admire it.Spark is good at identifying the way in which the elderly are regarded and the indignities that often come with old age.
Or Charmian’s husband, Godfrey, with his odd peccadilloes and obsession with people’s loss (or otherwise) of their faculties.Each of the characters who receive the cryptic message from the anonymous caller reacts differently – with outrage, with determination to find out the caller’s identity, with fear, with an academic interest about their own reaction to it, and in some cases, with acceptance.
My complaints: the plot is supremely byzantine; Mrs. Pettigrew is just too sinister; so much of the book's action is in the past that the second half turns over to exposition and loses much of the tightness that carried me through the first 100 pages; Eric comes in way too late and is way too nasty; the question of the phone-calls isn't quite handled in the way I would prefer and is made clear too early.
Sorry, I had to stop. I completely lost my interest and reading it became a chore. Maybe I'll give it a chance again in the future.
It follows a high-society geriatric set and their servants and lovers past and present.
I am also quite fond of Alec, a social scientist whose main research is to shock the members of his cohort and then chart their respective heart rates.As the tale progresses, more and more characters receive unsettling telephone calls.
With its aged cast, it could have been a strange and captivating mystery (think of the twists and problems posed by senility, infirmity, crotchety attitudes, abrupt natural deaths, etc!).
One character, for instance, believes he can't say if he's the culprit behind the calls; he just might be senile with a Mr. Hyde side.
Muriel Spark plays with this idea by making Death a kind of prank caller: beginning with Dame Lettie Colston, a group of interconnected elderly characters keep getting the message ‘remember you must die’.
Being a Muriel Spark novel, it’s darkly humorous and, for lack of a better word, kind of batty.
One of the characters tries to ‘control for’ death by obsessively cataloguing the behaviour and physical decline of everyone he knows.
Muriel Spark was only 41 when she wrote this novel.
I find that interesting, partly because so many middle-aged people I know live in such denial of old age and death.
Well this was an interesting and unusual novel...I wanted to read something by Muriel Spark, considered by many literary critics/experts as one of the finest writers of her generation - mid-20th century for the most part - and author of 'The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.' So I read 'Memento Mori,' which translates into: Remember you must die.And this is what several of the characters hear an anonymous caller tell them, on the phone.
Some of the characters suffer from dementia; others are just cranky, but the range of personalities is amazing; it's as if Spark might have known many elderly people herself, or visited nursing homes and taken copious, detailed notes.
A group of septuagenarians in late-1950s Britain are receiving upsetting phone calls: a man keeps harassing them, simply stating, "Remember, you must die." In Spark's hands, what would be a vehicle or device for a crime/thriller in the hands of someone like Agatha Christie instead becomes a tour de force of social commentary.Like Christie, Spark uses social banter to explore and criticize social issues; in Memento Mori, Spark brings postbellum anxieties about class, gender, and death to bear on relationships between individuals.
Unlike Christie, Spark is not concerned with placing the mystery at the center of her novel.
I liked this book for its tone and what one reviewer labeled the "economy" of Spark's writing.
I didn't especially care about any of the characters; I found them mostly unlikeable, and not compelling enough to counterbalance their individual and collective self-centeredness.
There were so many old, failing, privileged characters who harbored gripes and held grudges against so many others that I, with my own fuzzy brain, found it hard to keep them all straight.A good friend of mine really liked this book, so I wanted to like it, too.
But the book failed to deliver an emotional punch (unlike several other reviewers, I did not find it especially humorous, either), nor did it make me think or grow in any way.
I didn't really enjoy reading it.
There were times that I enjoyed the humour, and moments which gave me a lot to think about, but I think some thematic aspects are now dated.
In particular, as Tony discusses in his review, the scandalous interpersonal revelations that drive a lot of the novel are pretty standard fare nowadays, and thus the sight of all the wickedness behind respectable old age loses both its power and its humour.
I'm pretty glad I read it, but I don't see any need to keep it for rereading.
A congregation of unpleasant upper middle classes and Muriel lets rip. She's such a bitch! Great fun."Mabel Pettigrew thought: I can read him like a book. She had not read a book for over forty years,""Alec spoke to Mrs Bean and received a civil and coherent answer which came, as it seemed, from a primitive reed instrument in her breast-bone,""- there is always something new. I sometimes fear, at the present rate of discovery, I shall never die."
The large cast of the English geriatrics in this book can at times by witty and humorous, but their petty affairs and blackmailing become quickly tiresome, and the book comes off as pointless in the end. If the book wanted to treat the inevitability of old age and death in a humorous way, it was off the track.
This novel is about a group of upper class people in their 70's up to 100 years old. A number of them are getting crank phone calls telling them they're going to die. It is about frivolous, self-centered individuals some of who carry on affairs for decades and others who continuously change their wills. At the end, I wondered "what was the point".
