https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425164.Cop_Hater
The 87th Precinct novels not only filled that void, they broke new ground, creating the first and finest of all police procedurals.It seems old-hat today, tagging along with Carella, Kling, Meyer Meyer, Hawes and the rest of the 87th Precinct cops as they try to solve multiple crimes so they can make it home to their sweethearts or go find one, but when Cop Hater was written, it stood alone as something unique.
Reading Cop Hater now, one needs to judge it from the perspective of how groundbreaking it was at the time, and how it influenced everything to come in the much lauded series.
In fact, as a mystery fan I was ashamed to realize that the only Hunter/McBain I could recall checking out was the Hard Case Crime reprint of The Gutter & the Grave.Plus, I just so happened to have picked a copy of this up at a used book store a few years back, and it’s pretty short so I figured I should give it a shot.
I had figured out who was responsible for the murders very early on, and even the supposedly jaded cops seem kind of naïve to a reader in 2015.So it was worth checking out for the respected place McBain holds in crime fiction, but I don’t think I’ll be rushing out to read the rest of the 50-some books.
Originally published in 1956, this is the first novel in Ed McBain's long-running 87th Precinct series.
It introduces Steve Carella, who would be the most prominent of the detectives that McBain created to populate his mythical precinct; it also introduces the large mythical city where the books are set and which is based loosely on New York City.
As the book opens, a plain clothes police detective is shot and killed as he is walking to work.
The obvious conclusion is that someone hates cops and has decided to start killing them off.
This book was originally published way back in 1956 and is the first in the 87th precinct series, one of the longest running crime series in history, with a whopping fifty-five installments.
I’m not one hundred percent positive, but as far as I can tell, the entire series of books is available in the Amazon Kindle store, the digital format published by Thomas & Mercer, I believe.
But now that the books have been reissued in digital format, I am entertaining the idea of reading through the entire series, in order, if possible.
But can they stop the killer before he kills again?I was looking for another crime series to begin reading when the 87th Precinct series by Ed McBain caught my eye.
Steve Carella, the lead character, is engaged to a beautiful deaf mute named Teddy, is something I didn't expect but McBain manages to make their relationship believable.Cop Hater takes place during a heat wave and all of the characters have frayed nerves from the beginning.
One thing I liked is that while Carella is the lead, he's no super cop and no angel.
And he was one hell of a nice man." --Stephen King"Way back in the mid-1970s, when I was a new writer and police series were very big, my editor asked me to do a series called Joe Ryker, NYPD.
I had no idea how to write a police detective novel, but the editor handed me a stack of books and said, "These are the 87th Precinct novels by Ed McBain.
Years later, when I actually got to meet Ed McBain/Evan Hunter, I told him this story, and he said, "I would have liked it better if my books inspired you to become a detective instead of becoming my competition." Evan and I became friends, and I was privileged to know him and honored to be in his company.
I usually start with a corpse. I then ask myself how the corpse got to be that way and I try to find out - just as the cops would. I plot, loosely, usually a chapter or two ahead, going back to make sure that everything fits - all the clues are in the right places, all the bodies are accounted for...(I) believe strongly in the long arm of coincidence because I know cops well, I know how much it contributes to the solving of real police cases. --Ed McBain, on writing an 87th Precinct novel.For t
In paying homage to the master I have set myself a challenge to read and review the entire 87th precinct series in the next few months.COP HATER [1956] - Book OneCop Hater is the first of the 87th Precinct novels, originally published early in 1956 and made into a movie in 1958.On a hot night in the middle of an oppressive New York summer, Detective Mike Reardon is on his way to work when he is shot down execution style.
My dad was a huge Ed McBain fan, so of course, I spent some of my teenage years with the guys in the 87th Precinct, but I never read the entire series, in order, starting at the beginning.
book number one.It's been almost 30 years since I visited the gang, but there's an old, comfortable feeling right from the first pages.
He makes it easy to experience the sights, the smells, and in this book, the heat.
Thanks to these books, I spent a few of my teenage years planning to be a NYC cop.
The first entry in the 87th Precinct series. The series starts with a bang. The weather and the city are "characters" in this tale along with the cops of the 87th. The city of Isola isn't as fleshed out in this first book as it is in later books.
(I hasten to add I'm no expert and not particularly widely-read, especially in American crime fiction, so this is just my own impression – perhaps other writers had been making the transition before McBain got there.) When he writes about the city – the soaring skylines, the dazzling lights, the display of wealth and glamour barely hiding the crime, corruption and violence down on the streets – it reads like pure noir; and in this one there's a femme fatale who equals any of the greats, oozing sexuality and confidence in her power over men.But when he writes about Carella and the squad his tone is warmer, less hard-edged.
I read somewhere that this was the basis for Hill Street Blues (which I haven't seen) but it has definitely leant itself to inspiring countless cop shows most notably in my mind is the show based on the David Simon book mentioned above, Homicide Life On The Street.I should note that it's actually quite funny in parts, like true human interraction tough times and the everyday life of work are made better with humour and the observation of the behaviour of cops gathered together is another high point for Ed McBain.
Not abridged, read by Paul Shay who added absolutely NOTHING to the book.
It wasn't a bad novel, although dated.
I got a little tired of McBain explaining things that we've come to take for granted like fingerprints, but I guess some of the stuff wasn't common knowledge back when he wrote it.
It really added to the atmosphere & tone, though.The tone of the book is dogged.
The cops are snatching at rags & being complete jerks about every thread they can find, but they keep trudging along.
Unfortunately, when read in Shay's monotone, I wanted to scream after a while.
If that isn’t enough to scare you straight, then three dead bodies will certainly do the trick, all in less than 225 pages.Needless to say, I was picking grit and grime out of my teeth with a toothpick; I felt a sudden need to wear a shirt and tie; and despite living in New Mexico where humidity often becomes a distant mirage, I could cut through the air with my hand.Steve Carella packed more than enough punch for me, and he was probably my favorite male.
I loathe the heat, I totally hate the months May through August, and here I haven’t even had to capture a nefarious murderer/fear for my very law-enforcement life during them!
I liked this book well enough, especially since it was a 50 degree day when I read it, and if further books continue to use the 87th precinct & the characters that made it out of this one alive as a jumping-off point into slightly old-fashioned crime dramas, then I’m game.
However, if the killer reveals continue to be this silly, I don’t know how serious I can get about liking Ed McBain.
Review from Badelynge.This is the first book in Ed McBain's long running police procedural series 87th Precinct.
Carella and Teddy are unmarried still and between the exhaustive investigation the pair try to snatch enough time together to decide on a date for the wedding.As with quite a few of his books McBain makes good use of the weather conditions.
What really makes 87th Precinct books work though is the to and fro between the cops, the banter, some of it digging into the investigations or just the mix of everyday talk of a bunch of guys doing a day to day job.
Yes, the story is dated, but in this case I admired McBain's use of dialogue and character development.
When it comes to dialogue, McBain can be just as good as Elmore Leonard.
On the other hand, his characters, often tormented or troubled, had a depth you don't normally find in crime book series.
If Dostoevsky had been writing crime novels in the late 50s, Alice would have been the kind of monster he could have come up with in a fever moment.
Ed McBain's first novel in the 87th Precinct series is now a 60 year old book.
McBain's prose that provides commentary on the setting and story is sub-Chandleresque, but his dialog is pitch-perfect when moving from the precinct house to neighborhood bars to the daily line-up of perps.
And his plotting never flags.McBain, who was really bestselling author Even Hunter (who was really Salvatore Albert Lombino), decided to make his crime series based around the precinct and his fictionalized New York City rather than a particular character.
Ed McBain's first (of many!) 87th Precinct novels is a staightforward police procedural story. For a novel written in 1956 there are some moments of surprising violence, but the atmosphere the author creates is always one of believability.
Robust first title (1956) starts the long-running 87th Precinct cop series. "Cop hater" takes out cops. Uses lots of 1950s CSI forensics. Heat wave hitting Isola (sort of made-up city) jacks up the misery. Terse dialogue.
During my late teens when I first discovered serious reading for myself I found the 87th Precinct novels by Ed McBain.
This opening book quickly establishes the scene and grabs your attention.
Nothing motivates a group of detectives more than another officer down and when that person is from their own Precinct it is more than personal.This novel then shares the fears and frustrations as the detectives try to hunt down the killer; when he strikes again they recognise they may quickly be out of time.Loved it and found the inclusion of documents facinating.
Entertaining and diversionaryI was looking for a book that would be entertaining and keep my mind off of my new cold that I just picked up somewhere.
A Goodreads friend suggested an Ed McBain book.
I had neither heard of Ed nor read any of his books.
The edition of the book that I got had a preamble by the author talking about writing the series 87th precinct.
Some great paragraphs at the beginning of the book describing the Big Apple.
It took my mind off my cold without taxing my brain or my emotions.
my first 87th precinct novel and I enjoyed it.
I'll go back to the series now and then (as I'm doing with Perry Mason, Parker, Nathan Heller, etc) and, as Margie suggests, keep it in order.
It's simply good, fast reading cop/bad guy stuff.
To those who haven't read it - a spoiler is coming up.
To those who HAVE read it I'd love your opinion of what I say next....I have one gripe with the book.
I think McBain "jumped the shark" when Carella opens up and blabs to the journalist Savage.
Carella even names his girlfriend and the area she lives in.
I really can't see a cop doing this.
I really, really, really enjoyed this book up until the ending. The crime didn't make much sense at the end, was rushed, made this only a four star book. I'll keep reading the series, but the whole reason for the crime and who orchestated it blows my mind as, "Oh well I need to blame someone for this crime so here's who did it."
In this first of the series, the characterization is light compared to later books in the series (I've read others).PLACE=3: Because the aforesaid "fast story" is front and center, and because McBain was also a screenwriter, the author goes light on descriptions of exteriors and interiors (in the movie world, writers write, set decorators decorate, costume designers dress the stars, etc).
Summary: A nice start for the series, and a refreshing change of pace for crime novels, for a 3.2 rating.Cut Me In (1954): 3.6Cop Hater (1956): 3.2Ed McBain author rating: 3.4
Solid. Almost great.A cop novel where all the detectives in the precinct are the protagonists and they keep dying one after the other, shot by someone who seemingly didn't like cops. It seems formulaic when said like that, but it is surprisingly experimental and even a little dismissive of its own mystery (which is something I didn't like. It wrapped up too fast). Intriguing, perhaps revolutionary even. Definitely not your run-of-the-mill detective mystery.
Brilliant. First of over 50 installments about the 87th Precinct. Someone is murdering the detective team with ruthless executions and they must rush to find the killer. Written in the Fifties the book is way ahead of its time. Full of procedure, good characters and dialogue and a decent twist - yep - this was really good.
Rather than focusing on a single detective for his crime series, McBain featured the precinct itself as the main “character.” Through the continuity of the precinct, characters become familiar to the reader, then pass out of sight, or are glimpsed on their way in and out of the station, working on mundane daily cases.
A break will come from information on the streets, not forensics, and the hit or miss nature of the leads make the detectives particularly suspicious of even the most remote suspect: A vociferous loud-mouth venting against cops, or a resentful collar Reardon might have nailed.Threaded into the crime narrative are glimpses of the personal lives of the detectives.
They want to ruin your fun, or they want you to come home early, or they want you to shoot people they don't like, or they just plain old don't want to sleep with you.Cop Hater is a pretty decent book, and I'm sure it's true to the spirit of a certain kind of city and a certain kind of profession, and I bet if you are a particular type of person it inspired you to do all sorts of things.
It started things that other people built on in a big way; but by itself it's a bit, well, thin.I mean it's fine.I mean it's two stars, and that means it was okay.But girls, right?
I've read many, perhaps most, of the 87th Precinct novels, but I thought I hadn't read the first.
. .One strange thing about reading a novel so early in the series after so many years was that some of the boys of the 87th were strangers to me while others had yet to arrive at the precinct; Bert Kling is a new arrival during this novel, but plays only a trivial part since he's a (minor) casualty in an unrelated shooting.
Joyously, Teddy, the future Mrs Carella and one of my all-time favorite characters in the series, is already on the scene.There's a sense here that McBain was learning on the job to some extent.
Having about nine or so 87th Precinct books on my shelf, thought it important that I begin the series, so fortunately, spent no money but got this one from the library.
Ho, hum, from the beginning through to the end with an important subject left unanswered; the troublemaking, unethical newspaper reporter who never got his comeuppance.
This fact though, isn't a spoiler.We, those of us who read mysteries, like all important characters to get their due in the end, and he was left with his job intact, I guess, to wreak havoc for the rest of his career or move to a career which doesn’t call for high ethical standards.
