https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6746018-the-distant-hours
Did you ever go to a Tupperware party where the hostess spent forever demonstrating all the gadgets in a dramatically effervescent voice? And at the end nobody bought anything? And there weren't even any refreshments being served to make it worth having shown up? And you didn't like any of the other people who came to the party? This book is that party---all elaborate demonstration, no sale, no refreshment, and no one I care about.
4 out of 5 stars to Kate Morton's The Distant Hours, a beautifully written and compelling story of sisters, mothers and daughters across two different time periods set in London and rural England.   Why This Book?  I'd read one of her other books, The Forgotten Garden, and fell in love with Kate Morton's style, effortless reads and vivid settings and characters. I had to continue absorbing as much of her books as I could, but given they are usually 500+ pages, and quite intense, I have to layer
4 out of 5 stars to Kate Morton's The Distant Hours, a beautifully written and compelling story of sisters, mothers and daughters across two different time periods set in London and rural England.
I'd read one of her other books, The Forgotten Garden, and fell in love with Kate Morton's style, effortless reads and vivid settings and characters.
Edie's mother, Meredith, tells her very little, only that it came from one of the Blythe sisters who live at Milderhurst Castle where Meredith stayed as an evacuee during WWII's German Blitz.
This book shows us how to question why a sister can control another, how a mother can choose not to truly love her child...
I adored Kate Morton’s The House At Riverton and The Forgotten Garden, giving them both 5 stars, but delayed reading The Distant Hours after hearing so many bad reviews about it from people who, like me, loved those earlier books.
I finally decided to take the plunge, hoping to disagree with the bad reviews.
Had this been my first Morton book, it would have also been my last.
I stuck with it through 'loyalty' to Morton, and skim-read it in the hope that the 'real' author would eventually appear, and give me her usual tantalising, goose-bump inducing reveal.
I loved Morton's earlier novel, The Forgotten Garden, and had high expectations for this one as well.
Morton is a gifted writer, but this book suffered from too much literary cleverness at the expense of what should have been a gripping and taunt gothic mystery.
It's not enough that she can write strings of beautiful sentences; there needs to be a satisfying conclusion to such a whopping tome that I've invested loads of not-so-distant hours toward finishing.This time, the Morton magic didn't happen for me.
Actual rating: 3.5 🌟My edition of this book has over 700 pages, but it really didn't feel like a long book.
Like with her other books, the setting and overall "feel" of the book were just perfect.
The ending, like in Morton's other books, takes a dark turn, and once again, I was not let down.
Like I've said in my other reviews of her books: I'm glad she doesn't shy away from going down this route!Despite my detachment from the characters, I had a great reading experience and would definitely recommend it to others.
I welled up when this book ended & not just because I hated to see it end. One could weep over the sad lives of the 3 Blythe sisters, now elderly, & living with secrets that are beautifully & gradually revealed. The story jumps from the 1990's in London to the Milderhurst Castle during W.W.II and the present. When Edie Burchill encounters the 3 elderly sisters she is drawn into a family of secrets, whose "distant hours" are simply a wonder to read. It may be the best I've read since "The Help".
I don’t know quite what to make of Kate Morton, whose writing (at least for me) gets increasingly annoying with every book she publishes.
Morton is plainly far more interested in the details of setting and landscape than in narrative and character, and consequently she spends far more time on description and explanation than on dialogue or action, with the result that I started to feel as if I were having a guided tour of a novel instead of reading one.
Flying back and forth in time between the evacuation of children from London prior to the blitz of 1941 and the modern day (1992), Book editor Edie Burchill uncovers the truth behind the creation of "The True History of the Mud Man," a spectacularly successful children's story written by the patriarch of Milderhurst Castle in Kent, now in the possession of the "Sisters Blythe," three characters truly wrecked by their father and their connection to the baleful book he wrote.
Central to the complex and thoroughly gripping plot is Edie's mother, who was thirteen when she was evacuated in the war to Milderhurst and became entwined in the drama.
I have recently finished reading this book and I just loved it!
There are a lot of secrets in this book.I was worried it wasn't going to stack up to her two previous books due to some 'not so good' reviews I've read and heard.
Remember though, it is a dark book and she does take her time building the characters but it was one hell of a read.
It all starts with a lost letter delivered to Edith’s Mum, Meredith.
The letter has been lost for 50 years.
When Morton sets the stage and begins to play out the lives of the Blythe sisters, children of a famous and ultimately bizarre writer, during the time of WWII, she has me hooked.
At the same time, she introduces the modern-day story of Edie Burchill, the daughter of a WWII child evacuee who was sent to the castle to wait out the war.
It is her mother's story that Edie is determined to unearth, but in the process she finds herself enmeshed in the story of the Blythe sisters as well.
I raved over her two previous books: The House at Riverton and The Forgotten Garden, so when I heard about The Distant Hours a year ago, I could not wait for it.
The Distant Hours was such a lush, dark, beautiful, sad, novel.
I was so caught up.The story starts when a lost 50 year old letter arrives in the post.
No matter how you looked at it, the ending was sad.The Distant Hours was more character driven than plot driven, so therefore it's not for readers who like fast moving plots.
Like her previous novels, Morton has written another story that has permanently attached itself to my imagination.
Everything I loved in The House at Riverton and The Forgotten Garden, and have come to expect from Kate Morton, is in The Distant Hours.First, there's always a mystery that unfolds in lush, gothic detail, usually in a bygone era.
Like a siren call from the past, Edie is compelled to find Milderhurst Castle and discover the fate of the Sisters Blythe, Juniper, Persephone, and Seraphina.
Love affairs cut tragically short; age-old secrets waiting to be discovered; suspenseful, atmospheric setting; and writing that left me breathless - The Distant Hours enthralled me to the very end.
But beautifully lyrical prose and an almost unnerving talent for atmosphere makes this, on the surface a beautiful read.
What's not so obvious is that Morton's talent for crafting intricately layered, interesting characters is superb.
A love affair whose reverberations continue fifty years into the future and affect quite a few people.
But it's also a reminder to live your life for yourself, to let go of fear and the machinations of others, to love those around you, but not to allow that love to suffocate you.
It's a reminder that love isn't always a grand thing, but sometimes it's all we've got.
Porque La verdadera historia del hombre de barro, obra ficticia de la novela cuyo prólogo se nos aparece nada más abrir Las horas distantes, se convierte en un protagonista más; ya quisiera que fuera real para poder leerlo.Es primera vez que leo algo de esta autora y me ha sorprendido mucho, sobre todo en la habilidad de hacer encajar todas las piezas de una forma muy fluida, cada una en su justa medida y sin dejar cabos sueltos.
Realmente fue un gran descubrimiento y estoy ansiosa de poder leer sus otras novelas que, por la opinión de otros lectores, superan a Las horas distantes.
Update // I'm pretty sure I need to reread this book for a fair review as I was sick and cranky while reading it and I think it affected my judgment.
One day I will reassess //This pains me to say - I did not love this book.
While I adore Kate Morton and her novels read like one epic poem, this one was just much too slow for me.
The writing is brilliant, she can create an atmosphere with prose like no one else, and while even the plot was very intriguing, I felt as if that couldn't even save me from the pace.
3.5 sad stars, rounded up because it's beautiful no matter how slow.
My friend passed this across the table and promised a trio of spinsters, a creaky castle and long hidden family secrets. I probably should not have taken the book, seeing as it’s roughly a million pages long and I read at a slugs pace, but I was sold anyway because I’m nosey and books with dark secrets cannot be turned away.This book kept luring me in with a whole lot of this. But then it delivered nothing but a whole lot of empty promises until about page 4 million and 80. Then the twists and t
I probably should not have taken the book, seeing as it’s roughly a million pages long and I read at a slugs pace, but I was sold anyway because I’m nosey and books with dark secrets cannot be turned away.This book kept luring me in with a whole lot of this.
But then it delivered nothing but a whole lot of empty promises until about page 4 million and 80.
For those with more patience for slow moving books than I, this story is very atmospheric and I have to admit that there was something about it that kept me reading.
I opet odlična Kate Morton!
U njezino sam se pisanje zaljubila uz knjigu "Zaboravljeni vrt", ali mogu reći da su mi i "Davni trenuci" na istoj razini kvalitete.Volim tu njezinu mistiku, tajne koje se otkrivaju, ozračje veličanstvenih, starih zdanja zidova punih knjiga i slika, a svako od kojih krije neispričane i brižno skrivane sudbine svojih žitelja.Ovaj puta pratim priču triju sestara, sada već starijih dama, koje su svoje živote provele na obiteljskom imanju, u dvorcu Mildehurst čije zidine skrivaju šokantna zbivanja iz prošlosti.Sve počinje jednim pismom, koje je tek nakon punih 50 god.
uspješnica mislim da Kate Morton malo kojeg pravog ljubitelja pisane riječi može ostaviti ravnodušnim.
I enjoyed her two previous books, without thinking they were masterpieces -- just long, lazy holiday reads.
I did enjoy the 1941 parts at first; Middleton is still superb at evoking an atmosphere in the past with lots of period detail (certainly a million times better than Mary Ann Shaffer).
But even these parts started to seem too slight, long-winded, and repetitive.
A good editor with a big red pen would have helped a lot, but I still don't think it would have matched up to her other books, which had enough subtlety to retain interest.
Ancient walls that sing the Distant Hours.The story meanders a bit, taking its time letting you into the world of the Sisters Blythe and their father Raymond, Edie and her mum.
We find out who and what later on, but this piece of mail starts Edie down the trail of her mom from long ago, during World War Two. By chance (or is it?) she stumbles upon Middlehurst castle after getting lost and impulsively decides to stay the night.Middlehurst...
but nothing as simple either.One of the many things I loved about this book both times I read it is the lack of predictability.
All this is woven into Edith’s story, a young woman in 1993 who becomes enthralled in a mysterious connection between her mother, a mysterious castle, and its even more mysterious occupants, three aging sisters.The narrative moves back and forth between the 1940’s and 1993 both effortlessly and effectively; it’s a marvel of editing that the author uses these time switches to move the story forward so well.
The distant hours refer to the time passed and lives witnessed by the castle; of how its stone walls remember, and whisper.This is a mystery that kept me changing my mind about what happened right up to the end.
Each part is broken into chapters of two types: there are Edie’s chapters, which bear names instead of numbers, and there are flashback chapters, numbered and dated.
I thought at first that the flashback chapters were Edie’s reconstruction of the story, but I soon realized that wasn’t the case.
I was never confused about who was who, and by the novel’s end I had a good sense of where each character fit into the story.I thoroughly enjoyed reading The Distant Hours.
While no book is without its flaws, there is no one thing about The Distant Hours that stuck out to me as being off.
This was the first Kate Morton book I had ever read and I heard rave reviews over the Forgotten Garden.
Kate Morton is clearly a talented author but I think she failed with this book.
Switching from a first person narrative to a third person narrative, using different view points was distracting.
If she had made it all third person and still maintained the different view points, I would have been fine with that.
If she had sliced out whole chunks in the middle and ensured that she showed a scene once and well, the book would be excellent.
With the exception of one or two chapters about the relationship between Thomas Cavill and Juniper Blythe it felt like a narration you would find in the newspaper.I had the ending figured out three hundred pages into the book and read the remaining 260 pages just to see if I was correct.
I much prefer the latter.And whoever compared the story to 'Shadow in the Wind' must not have read one or the other book.
One is full of suspense with unexpected turns - the other like a drive to the local market.Not a book I would recommend to anyone.
I am going with 2.5 to 3 stars. That took me a really long time to finish. It took a long time to fully engage me, over the half way point. I didn't mind the story, just too long. A bit chick-lit as well, which is fine. I do hve a couple more books by this author on my shelves so will be reading more at some point. Here's hoping they move a bit faster :))
She has a gift for weaving multiple storylines together; add in mystery and some great character arcs and you have the premise for this novel.
Edie's mother was evacuated to Milderhurst around WWII and has kept this a secret from her daughter.
Twins Percy and Saffy, disciplinarian and nurturer, add in Juniper Blythe, who is eccentric and suffering from her past lover who failed to show up on the night they were announcing their engagement.Even with the numerous storylines all weaving together, the clear mystery keeps the reader wanting more, and easily turning the pages to race to find out what happened...
This was my first read by Kate Morton...and wow...absolutely stunning. I was completely lost in this novel and spent a good solid two days doing nothing but reading. I was constantly guessing at the many secrets and proved pleasantly right sometimes and shocked at others. The mixture of past and present, unfolding of long kept secrets, and deep insights from many points of view made this book perfection to me.
If not for the slow start I would have given this 5 stars.
An old castle, reclusive writer, three elderly sister and many many secrets ...what's not to like
While the blurb calls this "gothic literature", it's more goth lit lite - the scary isn't there to the degree that I'd expect from that genre.
The Sisters Blythe (honestly, the characters are really well named here!) aren't quite as Miss Havisham as they originally are made out to be, but the Castle certainly is trapped in time.
That Edith is ultimately able to unravel the past, not to mention bury it (in a manner of speaking) is not what you'd expect from the start because there are all sorts of Portents and Clues that lead the reader to think that Something with Happen to Edith.
E não é só a escrita, é o enredo, a forma de contar uma história mas nunca contando tudo de uma vez, a capacidade que tem de nos prender até à última página.
Tal como no O Segredo da Casa de Riverton, também neste livro temos uma família (curiosamente, também com irmãs) cheia de segredos ocultos, macabros, que perduram no tempo até um dia em que alguém decida desvendá-los.
Uma coisa que achei engraçado neste livro é que a verdade mesmo, os factos que aconteceram é-nos contado a nós, leitores, mas à narradora não!
Nós ficamos a saber, mas a personagem nunca vai ter conhecimento.
