https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27190613-and-i-darken
“So the question becomes, Daughter of the Dragon, what will you sacrifice? What will you let be taken away so that you, too, can have power?” 4 1/2 stars. This book is totally fucked up. In the best possible way.Well, holy shit. Even with the positive reviews rolling in, that was completely unexpected. How do I begin to explain this vicious little nightmare of a book? All I know is: it's different to anything else I've read.And I Darken is dark, gritty and compelling. It pulled me into its dark
But don't worry, this is paired with the revelation that there are many kinds of power and women have their own ways of wielding it, biding their time and eventually getting what they want.However, though she is fascinating, the book isn't just about Lada.
They have a complex sibling relationship, once again quite unlike anything we usually see in YA, and it is filled with frustration, jealousy and misunderstanding.A few other things: 1) I absolutely loved this unconventional setting in Eastern Europe.
I thought you might want to know because there are some LT signs early on.I loved this book.
‘‘The price of living seems to always be death.’’ ‘‘And that is why you become a dealer of death. You feed death as many people as you can to keep it full and content so its eye stays off you.’’ And I Darken is no bedtime story. Its complexity makes it hard to get into but also hard to get out of.I don’t know exactly when it happened, but sometime as I was reading it, I suddenly stopped thinking of it as just another historical fiction/fantasy story and started seeing it in a new light.Seeing i
Its complexity makes it hard to get into but also hard to get out of.I don’t know exactly when it happened, but sometime as I was reading it, I suddenly stopped thinking of it as just another historical fiction/fantasy story and started seeing it in a new light.Seeing it as a story of survival.Lada and Radu were supposed to die.
Many revelations take time to appear, and perhaps that is why it is only after they started sprouting out that I became fully invested in it.Though I couldn’t help but want to know more and be interested in Lada and Radu’s fates from the first page.
4.5 stars I didn't believe all the high ratings, and now here I am with them.A good example of why it's good to try authors again, btw. I'd read a couple of the author's earlier books and found them likable if a bit unmemorable, but there was absolutely no indication that one day she'd write a brutal book--or an uncompromising heroine--like this. Vlad the Impaler re-imagined as an aggressive girl! Fantastic.
Erasing all those hardships and tortures other peoples have suffered under the Ottoman Empire doesn't bring this book any "good representation" points.Because Kiersten White took my history and twisted it so that she can have the great gay romance (I see you, people who love this book bc you're fetishizing the same sex relationship) and a great wild female character.
This book just made it clear that Kiersten White couldn't care less about my country.
This was truly an epic book. There is a twist in this book, and trust me when I say that you will not see it coming.It has a heroine who flaunts herself as the "anti-princess" and in that sense, the book does not disappoint. Lada - our "female Vlad the Impaler" hooked (impaled?) me from the start. Even as a child in the nursery, she was fierce. Like her brother, Lada had big eyes, but hers were close-set, with arched bows that made her look perpetually cross. Her hair was a tangled mass, so dark
But surprisingly, as Lada grew, Vlad discovered in his daughter the strength and fierceness he himself admired, the qualities in a leader that was completely missing in his son Radu.
It's the story of a girl constrained by her gender, in a time where daughters are little more than chattel, and a young man trying to come out from his sister's shadow.I like Lada.
I really loved the brother-sister relationship between Radu and Lada.
Their relationship is very complex, with Radu constantly seeking her approval, feeling (and often being told) that he is inferior to his fierce, strong older sister.
Oh, little did he know that he would have one of the most brutal, bad@ssed girl known to man!
Radu could not see her face through her tangled drape of hair until Aron twisted to the side, revealing Lada's teeth sunk into his shoulder
I was thinking this was going to be a cool book about the awesome Vlad and his kids but Vlad is like a little sissy compared to his daughter Lada.
Radu knew Lada would not care either way.
I love Lada and I look forward to the rest of the books!
Rivetingly dark and heartbreakingly human.    the nurse offered her own prayer.Let her be strong.Let her be sly.And let her be ugly.  Much like the nurse's prayer, Lada Dragwlya grew up single-minded, cruel and absolutely ruthless. Completely in contrast to her beautiful younger brother, Radu. “So the question becomes, Daughter of the Dragon, what will you sacrifice? What will you let be taken away so that you, too, can have power?” Lada, and Radu, started life almost entirely isolated. They wer
Much like the nurse's prayer, Lada Dragwlya grew up single-minded, cruel and absolutely ruthless.
But until that day comes, Lada and Radu must navigate the intricacies of the Ottoman Empire - one wrong move could very well mean the end of both their lives.
I love a good, dark antihero book and Lada absolutely delivered.The way she coldly and efficiently denied the common expectations of the times just blew me away - take her response to a marriage proposal (well, more like she was commanded to marry).
<3 It is the finest of historical fiction and the characters have caught my heart.This news just in: Radu is the most kind and precious and beautiful cinnamon roll of ever and also totally a cunning Slytherin.
So basically I am like so:Me: This was deadly boring.Brain: But the characters were precious violent cinnamon rolls.Me: But I napped.Brain: But gender-swapped Vlad the Impaler.Me: ...Brain: RIGHT???Me: OK SO TRUE.
Today I'm going to give you a list of Things This Book Is About: So you know what to expect when you read it!
Ever since I read this particular quote taken from And I Darken, I've been enchanted:“On our wedding night," she said, "I will cut out your tongue and swallow it. Then both tongues that spoke our marriage vows will belong to me, and I will be wed only to myself. You will most likely choke to death on your own blood, which will be unfortunate, but I will be both husband and wife and therefore not a widow to be pitied.”And also that beautiful cover didn't hurt. This review contains *spoilers*.And
And it was damn hard to read.They have saved each other so many times when no one else would, and it was heartbreaking to see them fall apart from one another.And then also Lada and Mehmed's honeymoon stage turns a little sour.“You are staying here!”Lada peeled off his hand and took a step back.
Everything that happened with Lada, Mehmed, and Radu left me feeling both conflicted and proud.
From here on forward..the book is set in the dual perspectives of Lada and Radu.
I mean..this is a story telling an alternate history to a man who lived this sort of life..he and his brother were used as political bargaining chips and held in “captivity.” The traumatic experiences built up eventually leading to his ruling of Wallachia as a sadistic leader.
I am oh so excited to see how Lada continues to become a Vlad the Impaler that we recognize.The story is completely original and unlike anything I’ve ever read.
Though I realize this allowed time for character and story development.I am very excited to see how things play out for Lada, Radu, Mehmed, and Wallachia in the sequel.
its been about three months since I've read this this and despite hating it, I'm still going to read the next book because I want the pain everyone feels reading this series!!! I still hope the next book will be better!!!! the only problem is that I literally remember nothing from this book. it's so forgetful, oops. 🤷🏻♀----I want pain ;) and death ;) and feels ;) and all the good things everyone promises ;) otherwise you might find me attending my own funeral ;) because i'll be dead from the dis

here's a message to this book: ——1st Read:IT WAS SO GOOD I LOVED IT SO MUCH I HAVE NOTHING BUT AMAZING WORDS FOR THIS BOOK. I LOVED LADA, I LOVED SHE WAS UNPREDICTABLE AND I LOVE HOW SHE DEFIED EVERYTHING!!! IT WAS THE BEST HOLY
First book of 2017 complete. Really unique story and i did really enjoy it. Some parts were confusing but the majority was brilliant! I thought there would be magic involved but it was not, still really good!
I am both intrigued, enamored, and at times appalled, by these characters and the turbulent world that they occupy.Lada Dragwlya is an unlikely heroine.
Immediately, Radu claimed a piece of my heart.When their father trades Lada and Radu to the Sultan of Ottoman as pawns to guarantee his loyalty, they are left to fend for themselves in a hostile new world.
She refuses to show any weakness that might be used against her and Radu.Unlike his sister, Radu soon takes to the ways of this new world.
The line between friend and enemy blurs and loyalties are called into question.From start to finish, I was completely captivated by this story.
and i think its due to the fact this book is labelled as fantasy, which is misleading because there was no fantasy element to this story at all.
this was about two siblings who befriend mehmed (the conquerer) and experience his early years as the sultan of the ottoman empire.
where the story really shined for me was the dynamic between the main characters.
im pretty sure i will continue this series for the characters alone.
if i wanted to know more about the expansion of the ottoman empire, i would pick up a text book.
but these characters made the story completely worth while.
“So the question becomes, Daughter of the Dragon, what will you sacrifice? What will you let be taken away so that you, too, can have power?”  A gem of a book.It was savage and brilliant, a bloody tale of politics laced with tainted relationships, betrayals and desire. For freedom, for power, for human touch. For greatness.In And I Darken, Kiersten White travels through time to medieval Wallachia, a vassal state of the blooming Ottoman Empire. To the court of Vlad Dracul, the cruel father that
For greatness.In And I Darken, Kiersten White travels through time to medieval Wallachia, a vassal state of the blooming Ottoman Empire.
She was an experienced guide to the barracks of the Janisaries, the harems and the mosques, the schemes, the rise and fall of empires, and to the paths Lada, Radu and Mehmed followed.
A living and breathing menace, torn between her burning desire to return to her Mother, to liberate her Mother, and her complicated feelings for Radu and Mehmed.
While Lada was sharp as steel, Radu was soft and pleasant.
"It is the way of the world. You can be the aggressor, you can fight against crusaders on their own land, or you can stay at home and wait for them to come to you. And they would come. They would come with fire, with disease, with swords and blood and death. Weakness is an irresistible lure." 4.5 stars.Lada made an awesome first impression, not everyone can claim to be a badass right from birth. She wasn't exactly relatable - most of the time I couldn't figure out what her motivations were - bu
You can be the aggressor, you can fight against crusaders on their own land, or you can stay at home and wait for them to come to you.
I feel like Radu and Lada switched places in terms of gender and sexuality.
Lada never wanted to be female and Radu never acted like a traditional male.
(view spoiler)[It's great that Lada is taking charge of her life without relying on any man, and I agree that she and Mehmed wouldn't have worked out even if they did get married.
But the thought of Radu and Lada so many miles apart, and Radu still pining over Mehmed who will never love him back...
•full review posted now•   “On our wedding night," she said, "I will cut out your tongue and swallow it. Then both tongues that spoke our marriage vows will belong to me, and I will be wed only to myself. You will most likely choke to death on your own blood, which will be unfortunate, but I will be both husband and wife and therefore not a widow to be pitied.”  I'm in the process of giving my grades up for adoption because I'm unfit to raise them myself. Is there any possibility that I can tr
this is all lies; they'd probably end up raising me I know it’s been like 65 years since I’ve finished this book.
PLOT ✔️From beginning to end, you're thrown into a world filled with violence, abuse, dark, finding oneself and somewhat loving??✔️ If you read the synopsis, you won't be let down.
********************pre-review {calls help line} me: i tried to resist it but it gave me that, "i know you want me" look.person: ???me: and i can't me: and i triedme: and i failedme: this title just fucking suits my moodthis makes no sense, just like my entire life but the point is  i want to read it and understand the hype.
I’ve had bad luck with it this year and I really needed someone to show me that the genre wasn’t the problem, and I wasn’t the problem, but instead I was just reading the wrong books.Thank you for making me feel so much.
I went into the book expecting to like Lada (and she did turn out to be my favourite) but I also loved the other characters.
Sweet Radu with his good but emotionally scarred soul, Mehmed who does so much wrong and I sometimes wanted to slap but I warmed to anyways, Nikolai who is just the best, and all the female characters of the court who taught Lada what it means to be a woman in their world and how to be powerful and that the two aren’t irreconcilable.
When I saw the premise for this story..A female anti-hero retelling of Vlad the Impaler..in a sort of Game of Thorns vibe..I was all set to start handing out some stars. The book starts with Lada (Ladislav-but she will punch you in the face for calling her that) and her brother Radu growing up in Wallachia. Lada wants to impress her father Vlad so that she can prove that even though born female she is a force to be reckoned with. And she is.. Occasionally she informed her tutors when a torture m
The book starts with Lada (Ladislav-but she will punch you in the face for calling her that) and her brother Radu growing up in Wallachia.
You will most likely choke to death on your own blood, which will be unfortunate, but I will be both husband and wife and therefore not a widow to be pitied."That really works out well...then the Sultan's son Mehmed meets Lada and Radu and wants to be their friends.Lada huffed, exasperated.
See what an awesome character that Lada is?The first part of this book had me all fangirly and then around 50% I started to lose interest.
To résumé my experience with this book in seven words: it put me in a reading slump. I really wanted (and expected) to love it, but, oh well. Here’s a list of all the things I did not do: ・Care about the historical context of this book, which, apparently, is also immensely insulting to the people whose history is being “reimagined”—and while I’m not one of them, the reasoning behind their outrage resonates with me all too well.・Found the storyline intriguing. Excepting the first 30% of this book
・Care about the historical context of this book, which, apparently, is also immensely insulting to the people whose history is being “reimagined”—and while I’m not one of them, the reasoning behind their outrage resonates with me all too well.・Found the storyline intriguing.
Excepting the first 30% of this book, I couldn’t possibly have cared less about what was happening, and to whom, probably because I ceased to・Remain emotionally invested in the characters.
I loved Radu, and also appreciated Lada for who she was, right away, but somewhere along their coming of age they became two-dimensional characters at best, as they spent most of their time fawning over a love interest.
Obviously, I did not・ Care for the romantic aspect.
There is nothing light and fluffy about this book.♔ I liked that White managed to have a misogynistic, borderline-Islamophobic main character, yet not portray either of those messages as positive.
But I did really like that there were so many sympathetic Ottoman characters; Nazira especially is one of my favorite side characters of all time (especially in book two).
His main job in this book is to be in love with Mehmed.
An open letter to Radu: I am so sorry that I didn't love you in this book.
You're an incredible character and one of my all-time favorites.
Radu's cheerful disposition helped balance Lada's feisty one, and vice versa.I enjoyed the first section of the book when they were children, but when they became young adults was when the story really enveloped me.
While reading this book, I found myself rooting for Lada, no matter what sort of horrible thing she may have done.
Lada wasn't one to settle for what little she's given - she will fight to get what she deserves, no matter the cost.My favourite character had to be Radu, though.
FIVE THOUSAND STARS out of fiveHighly-recommended. My new favorite.A read for The Quarterly Book Club’s Fourth Quarter: Historical Fiction   “So the question becomes, Daughter of the Dragon, what will you sacrifice? What will you let be taken away so that you, too, can have power?”  This was my first time to read a book by this author and I will definitely check out her other works. Her writing is exceptionally exquisite. She was able to rebuild a long-gone world in my head and piqued my curiosi
It answers the question: “What are you willing to sacrifice to gain what you want the most?”At a young age, Vlad III and his younger brother Radu were brought into the Ottoman courts.
There they lived for years and have been educated just so their father could keep the throne of Wallachia, a vassal state of the Ottoman Empire, for himself.Here’s how the story went in Kiersten White’s masterpiece: Instead of Vlad III, we get Ladislav “Lada” Dragwyla in his place.
If the author wanted to stick to historical records to make her series more accurate, I think it would be best that Mehmed would end up with Radu.
Why the blazing fads can they not get into their obviously thicker than average heads that a boy would be called Vladislav, Alexander, Valentin, Svyatoslav, Miloslav, Radmil (if you want to get really fancy with names) ..., while a girl would be called Vladislava, Alexandra, Valentina, Svyatoslava, Miloslava, Radmila ...
A girl could have been called Ladislava or Lada had she been named to the honor of an ancient pre-Christian Slavic pagan goddess of female beauty and love, Lada!
For one thing, it's cool to see a girl character strong enough to chew steel (not literally but then...
#1 And I Darken ★★★★★#2 Now I Rise ★★★★★#3 Bright We Burn ★★★☆☆Update 12.28.17 → Don't mind me, just rewrote my entire review because rereading and dwelling on this book has changed my original opinion so drastically that it deserved better. 😍 "A dragon did not crawl on its belly in front of its enemies, begging for their help. A dragon did not vow to rid the world of infidels, and then invite them into its home. A dragon did not flee its land in the middle of the night like a criminal. A dragon
A dragon burned everything around herself until it was purified in ash."
Lada has the literal best character introduction you could hope for, in her wet nurse's prayer for her at her birth:
The nurse's prayers do not fall on deaf ears; Lada grows into an unruly, angry, and unattractive child who gets what she wants by force.
The siblings couldn't be any more different if they tried, so the alternating third-person perspectives make for an incredibly fascinating read.The writing is beautiful, though there is a lot of slow development following the characters through their childhoods, and nothing of any real note occurs until they enter their teen years.
"She would never toss aside her country the way her father had. She would protect it. A small sob threatened to break free. What could she do? She had no power. Yet, she vowed. She had no power yet." Can I get a high five for reached expectations? Bring it in, come on.And I Darken is YA at its finest. There were times when I questioned if it should be classified as NA/Adult because the themes it deals with and the characters' thought processes get pretty dark. And then there's the history/world
It in no way prepared for this gem of a character named Radu, also known as Lada's younger brother.
He schmoozes up to the nobility, gains their trust, learns their secrets and just like that, he becomes one of the most powerful men in the nation.That's what I love about And I Darken.
The main reason I'm not 100% in love with Lada is she acts rather condescending towards women who embrace traditional female roles.
But there are many ways to be powerful.
Then both tongues that spoke our marriage vows will belong to me, and I will be wed only to myself.
The author has actually strayed further from history for no reason other than to shoehorn in a straight romance where historically there was a queer one.To put this in perspective, let's consider actual history: the real Mehmed was so thirsty for Radu that he put the moves on Radu at a social event, asking him if he wanted to go back to his bedchambers for Netflix and chill, and Radu responded by stabbing him in the leg and climbing a tree to get away from this bitch.
it’s officially been 3 months since I finished this and I’m still wondering what there is to love about this book// buddy read with raiasaons (please don’t blame me for the horrid spelling of raisins I’m actually very smart)
I have never, never been so disappointed in my life, not even when I have found out that my gym crush is already married. I was so close to DNF it but I kept reading because I wanted to at least like it but it didn't happen. Now just let me find a dark corner where I can cry over my disappointment.
