https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/578950.Sweet_Water
I think maybe it's meant to be yes, because of the little aside from Clyde about how he was her favorite, but (a) ew, (b) it was very smarmy of him in the first place to hit on her when he knew they were "related" but she didn't, (c) if she gets together with him, it means moving to Atlanta and wasn't the whole point of moving to Sweetwater supposed to be that she wanted to put down roots somewhere and didn't like the big city life anymore?
(hide spoiler)]I don't know, maybe this is a parody of those books where someone moves to their little hometown and finds happiness?
Even in Clyde's second flashback of Bryce's death, I was sure we were about to get a fabulous piece of the puzzle but no.
And adopted cousin sex?
Also, if Troy is adopted, why is it mentioned several times that he and Cassie look so much alike?
I hate a useless character and it seemed he was only created to highlight how red-neck the bartender was (another completely useless character).4) So many suspenseful moments that simply fell flat.
It opened with it so surely we could have learned more about that night through some avenue other than Cassie's imagination.
For such page-turning writing, the details of this story were completely flat.
I would have given this a solid three stars if the author would have actually ended the book. Seriously. I kept thinking there was an issue with my Kindle copy and something didn't download.
New York had been her home for her whole life – living with her father after her mother had died when she was three years old was all she remembered; she didn’t know her mothers’ family at all…When she discovered her grandfather – a man she had never known – had left her the family farmhouse and acreage back in Sweetwater, Tennessee, she was initially going to sell it.
As the suspense and tension tightened around Cassie, she was determined to discover the long held secrets; she wanted to find out all she could about a mother she could barely remember.
This was a fascinating family mystery (with a somewhat slow start).
At its core are the two narrators, the grandmother and a granddaughter, both grieving for the woman between them who had died 20 years before.
Family and small town secrets nearly destroy all the characters, past and present, before mysteries are faced and revealed.P.S. I don't recommend the audible/CD version.
The MC narrator has a very flat somewhat irritating voice and the grandmother, although having an interesting voice, is recorded at a quieter volume.
Many typos and unintended bolding of random words were a bit distracting.I felt the writing style was inconsistent, and it seemed the author wasn't sure what kind of book she wanted this to be.
I liked the main character, Cassie, who leaves NYC to go live in a house she inherited in Tennessee among her mother's folk, hoping to get to know the family and the story behind the night her mom died in a car accident.
She tells her side of the story in alternating chapters with her grandmother, a very unhappy, disturbed old woman.A solid 3 stars.
Wow, I've lucked out recently with good books. I hope that doesn't mean I'm due for some boring ones soon. This was excellent - so interesting and the suspense part of it had me totally absorbed. I love this writer (thanks for telling me about her Katie!) and I'll definitely read her other books. I think she's only written three books since 1994 and one is due out next month. The writing is superb and Kline has that great storyteller quality that makes for my favorite kinds of books.
I really enjoyed this book.
27-year old Cassie Simon inherits land and a house in Sweetwater, Tennessee from her grandfather.
She is currently living in New York and her life is at a cross roads so she decides to move to Sweetwater and get to know her mother’s family who she hasn’t had much to do with since her mother died 24 years ago.
The story is told by Cassie and by her grandmother, Clyde, so we learn about the past and present.
I really enjoyed the entries from Clyde as they kept hinting at a mystery hidden in Cassie’s inheritance and this kept me riveted.
I read this book for I absolutely loved Orphan Train - which I highly recommend you reading! It was WONDERFUL... this book- not so much -
I had trouble deciding on a rating for this book.The premise and the writing kept me captivated throughout.
They seemed to lack the strong connection that seems to be so prevalent in southern families.Another detail that did not seem right was that the daughter, Ellen was buried in the cemetery by date of death.
In TN with that much land, they should have a private family cemetery and if they did not they should have a plot in the cemetery so their daughter would not have been buried by date.The other major problem was the steamy sex scenes.
Cassie Simon returns to her mother's hometown in Sweet Water, Tennessee when she inherits a home and land from her grandfather. There, Cassie reconnects with her estranged family and tries to find out what happened the day her mother died in a car accident when Cassie was only three years old. The past is revealed in alternating chapters richly told by Cassie's grandmother and present chapters with Cassie doing her own investigating. I'd been stuck in a rut of starting books that lacked movement; but this one had it. Good story and writing that had both simplicity and beauty.
I liked pieces of it but other things - little side stuff that didn't affect the story line but did affect my feelings about this book popped up every once in a while and soured the book for me. (view spoiler)[ The flash back to her college friend and the cousin thing weird-ed me out. The college thing was just weird and totally did not advance the story at all - why have it all I ask (hide spoiler)]
From New York City to Tennessee?Was Cassie making the right move? She thought so, but meeting family members she hadn't seen since she was three was frightening as well as disillusioning. She had to find out her roots, to find out what happened to her mother, and to find out why her mother really didn't want to live in Sweetwater, Tennessee, and why her grandfather left her the family home and 60 acres. What could the reason possibly be when she never knew him?Cassie is an interesting character
SWEET WATER smoothly flows from Grandmother Clyde's narrations to Cassie's retelling, reliving, and revealing of the secrets the Clyde family held.Ms. Kline has this time written a marvelous book about families, roots, and life-changing secrets.
Every family member was good at keeping secrets especially the one that Grandmother Clyde kept for 20 years and the secret that ate at her for her entire life.
Haunted by the death of her mother 24 years, she is running from the unspoken grief that she and her father shares and toward answers to the questions she desperately needs.
Clyde understands why Cassie is coming back after all of these years, but she can’t allow her to find out her secret – she is responsible for her daughter’s death.
Amory knew Cassie would come to claim the family’s old homestead and the land.
And Cassie wonders could one grandparent be responsible for his daughter’s death, while the other murdered her best friend?
I found it a compelling read but SPOILER ALERT, it contained a very creepy side plot with Cassie falling for her cousin.
Yes, I get he's adopted so they technically aren't related and they'd never met so it wasn't like they grew up together, but seriously.
It wasn't like they were long, lost 5th cousins or anything that never knew the other existed.
And the ultimate redemption in forgiveness and letting go kept me going until the end, which felt more like it just stopped vs.
But I still had a hard time getting into Cassie and Troy's "love" story.And two stars because, well, I'm a sucker for stories with dogs.
Liked the way the story is told by both grandmother and granddaughter with each chapter featuring one or the other. After being disillusioned with her life in New York, a young woman moves to Tennessee after the maternal grandfather she never met leaves a home and land to her. Since her mother died when she was 3, she is eager to meet the extended family for the first time in hopes of learning details about her mother's terrible accident, which leads to some very dark discoveries & well-kept secrets.
Okay...so I was really into the book through I'd say, Part IV....but when I got to the end, I thought, WHAT?!
So many loose ends.
Second, as soon as they mention the whirlpool in the pond I knew where this was going.
(Which, adopted or not, I still found it pretty odd that it was her cousin)...You learn nothing about the gay cousin which could have been a great sub-story about his relationship with his mom and Bible-bellowing dad.
Is she going to keep the house or move to the city with Troy?
But this...this was just such a dead ending.
Great writing and a wonderful story of a young woman (Cassie) who returns to her Tennessee roots to re-connect with family after inheriting her grandparent's home.
Her Mother's family had not kept in touch and so finding out that she had been given the family homestead was a big surprise.Lots of family secrets and some beautiful descriptions of the Tennessee countryside and what life in a small, rural town is like.This novel is well-put together.
The story, the characters and the plot - it reads smoothly - not too long, not too short, good ending.
All in all good storytelling.
All the build up to this big mystery only to be let down in the end. I like the way the story was told but I just expected too much for the ending I guess.
I like how the story is told with the main character and then through journal entries of the deceased mother and living grandmother.
I like that the main character is searching for answers.
After doing this, she is able to begin opening up to her granddaughter and you finish the book hoping that the granddaughter will get the answers she needs to connect her families past and feel whole inside.
This References her need to get to the root of her origin, find out why the women in her family act the way they do and ultimately why she does herself.
Well this was definitely one of the most depressing - and dysfunctional - books I have ever read.
And what's with women always being so willing to throw each other under the bus - even when they are best friends - all for some man that truly has no redeeming qualities?
No loyalty to the sister-hood whatsoever!
And don't even get me started on the ending!
I gave 5 stars to one of this author's other books (Orphan Train) - so I was really disappointed I didn't like this one even just a little.
I enjoyed A Piece of the World, the author's most recent work, so when I was looking for something new to listen to, I thought I'd give this a try. Let's just say she's gotten a lot better since 1993.
I enjoyed this book for the most part. It did get confusing towards the end though & I didn't like how she ended it. Good read.......up until the last 50 pages 🙄
I'm not sure if I didn't like the book or if I'm just not used to listening to one. This was my first audiobook and I think I was too distracted by the voice changes. However, I did not care for the long, drawn out reveals that were meant to keep the reader engaged with the plot.
It is no secret that I, like so many others, loved Christina Baker Kline's Orphan Train, which was her most recent novel.
Sweet Water was her first novel, and it shows how much she's grown as a writer.That's a polite way of saying this book is downright painful.First off, a warning...I will probably tiptoe into spoiler territory.
So, if you still want to read this book at this point, you may want to tune out now.I will say that Kline's writing talent is evident here.
However, I'm not going to let this book turn me off Kline's writing.
One of the reasons I love to read is thinking about people and why they do what they do, why they are who they are.My main takeaway from this book is the importance of CHOICE.
We choose who we are going to be, how we are going to deal with situations, and in a sense, I think we teach others how to treat us--we have some say in how others treat us because we choose whether we'll put up with it or not.There are many discussion point in this one too:--fidelity is a CHOICE--friendship--betrayal--how much of who we are is determined by our family of origin?--denying who we are to conform to who someone else wants us to be--controlling people, being true to self or living life for 80 years never living your own life (!!!!)--small town life vs.
What you are left with is acknowledgement that Cassandra has made a decision on the new found love in her life and Grandma says she has lots of story to tell but the following page is a bio on the author.
I gave this 3 stars because it did hold my interest until the end (or lack of one) and I did like the author's ability to tell the story from both Cassandra and her grandmother's voice and make it a smooth transition.
I'm not sure if this story is as interesting as the reviews it has created. Others reactions aside, Kline touches family life as it oftentimes happens - lots of assumptions built on a little bit of knowledge running through personal filters of love and hate.
I got it for free or maybe 99 cents on my kindle, so glad I didn't spend much on it.The story of this family and their past secrets reads a bit like a mystery, but also bit of family drama.
Troy's character and his relationship with Cassie was very odd to me in general, kind of just thrown in there for fodder I felt like, and an odd choice for romance at that.
Towards the end I felt like overall it was nothing special, nothing I'd have missed if I HADN'T read it.
The mystery of the family secrets is what propelled the book forward for me, and that is what I most enjoyed.
Difficult rating because this writer has an incredible talent and skill with wording.
Unlike many books, I was drawn into this novel and wanted to get to the next page.
However, the actual storylines and unresolved questions make it impossible to rate this author on her talented use of words alone.
There are characters that lead nowhere.
In the end, I believe I can connect and understand why she wrote in some pieces, but more time and development of skills will allow this author to grow and soar into greater cohesive novels.
I would love to know in her mind where certain characters fit.
