https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115625.The_Psychology_of_Selling

This is a really good sales book whether you are new to sales or a veteran, it's stuffed full of wisdom and nuggets of gold.
The explanations come from experience, as the author says, but it's not hard to imagine that these explanations are only given to get readers and potential sales people excited and nothing more.
explained in the book is the fact that I found many of the so importantly quoted "experiments" or '"test" to be false.
These experiments and studies did not take place and are purely invented of myths altogether.
This leads me to think, if these examples are not true, then what else is not?
This is a myth, there has been no study whatsoever proving this to be right.
در کل برای یه دید کلی و شروع بد نیست ولی خیلی جاها توصیه های گاها اشتباهی رو به خواننده القا میکنهمثلا بسیار تاکید بر عمده فروشی به جای خرده فروشی داره که در دنیا امروز اکثرا به این نتیجه رسیدن که پوشش بیشتر و داشتن مشتری بیشتر بهتر از چندتا مشتری گنده هستش.
این حرف میتونه درست یا غلط باشه و نمیشه به صورت یک قانون کلی اون رو نگاه کرد.کتاب خیلی سیاه یا سفید قضیه رو نگاه میکنه که توی دنیای واقعی به هیچ وجه به این شکل نیست.این کتاب بیشتر برای تحریک افراد فروشنده هستش که فروش بهتری داشته باشند و خیلی جاها این انگیزش رو ایجاد میکنه.به عنوان یه کتاب انگیزشی بد نیست ولی اصلا به عنوان یه منبع علمی مقداری باید با شک و تردید آن را خواند.
Amazing book! Tracy helped me embrace the fact that I am a salesman, and to not be ashamed of it. He gives great pointers on how we can be in the top 1%, which I have implemented and found great success in doing so. I think that every salesman should read this book!
7 enseñanzas esenciales para vender más: -Escucha atentamente. Los prospectos no quieren oírte, quieren hablar. -Emociona. Crea imágenes en la mente del cliente para que se visualice disfrutando los beneficios de tu producto/servicio. -Recuerda que la gente no compra características, sino soluciones. -Haz demostraciones. -Quien pregunta tiene el control. El ser humano está programado para contestar siempre. -Háblale al prospecto como si ya hubiese comprado. -"No puedes volar con las águilas si sigues jugando con los pavos". Ponte metas altas. Vístete, habla y actúa como si ya fueses uno de los mejores vendedores del mundo. Trata de cerrar peces gordos.
Mundane stuff. Top producers earn way more than the rest. 80/20. Winning edge. Need the foundation.blah blah blah. saying some points but seldom teaching how. For Eg, you need enthusiasm, you need to be different from others but how? any tips?A couple of outdated or wrong info: You don't close a insurance deal on the first session because you need to go back, gather info and come back again. outdated.Brian Tracy's books are mostly informational but have little stories or examples.
Wow. Do you have an insurance or financial person in your life that you really like?
It will help you gain a new perspective on the selling profession and the appropriate ways to go about applying the skill of selling to your daily life.
You will immediately see a difference in the way things are working for you, once you try some of these methods.
Selling happens quite often in our day-to-day lives, in ways we may not often think of as selling.
It happens at work and in parenting when you're trying to convince someone to your way of thinking and getting them to adopt your idea.
Self development... Which means for me pure bullshit
Informative. But very basic & I don't work in sales. Totally not my kind of thing.
Here are my favourite quotes & lessons from the book:- "You have a healthy personality to the degree to which you can get along with the greatest number of types of different people."- Don't ask what do you think at the end of any sales conversation..no one ever does actually go away and think about it.
Instead you need to focus on utility and how it will help them (especially tapping into the emotional drivers mentioned above)- Brian Tracy mentions he used to let prospects at the end of a sales process "think about it".
As legend Z.Ziglar said, 'if you're in the business of dealing with people, then you my friend are in Sales.' However, despite being one of the most exciting professions in the world, the problem many of us face, is simple...we wing it.
A Doctor went to Medical School, an Advertiser learned Marketing, a Lawyer studied the Law. However ask anyone what they study, read or listen to, to excel in Sales and more often than not, you will get a blank stare.
If you've not devoured any self-enrichment material before, or more commonly in today's world, not read a book since high-school, make time for Brian Tracy.
Since sales is a very emotional process, the salesperson needs to have their attitude, strategy, and perspective at peak levels to achieve high performance.Mr. Tracey gives the reader a ton of very good strategies that most people who read self-improvement are familiar with, setting goals, positive affirmations, studying and following the lead of successful people, and he presents all this material in the lens of the sale process.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who needs to sell in their professional life, this is my second time reading it, and I can easily see myself coming back to it again and again as I get older.
I could have sworn this was written by Don Draper himself!
To be fair, there are some very time-tested techniques in this book, but on balance, it's so outdated (as if it where written for traveling salesman in the 60's) and you can get more current tips from any number of books or Ted talks or Youtube videos...
It also doesn't provide any guidance for the modern world in which the salesperson is no longer the 'expert' with the advent of the internet and free flow and dissemination of information.
unless you are completely a novice or lost or need rigid and simple guidance skip this book.
To me one of the best books that you will ever find about selling, but not just for selling goods or services, but yourself in any field that you develop. Like it or not we are always selling and being sold, so what are we waiting to start learning about this process and take the whole rides of our lifes. Brian Tracy in a gently manners teach us that the best sellers arent born, actually they are made, they prepare themselves and they have a lot of balls and hustle, that we can develop too. Let'
To me one of the best books that you will ever find about selling, but not just for selling goods or services, but yourself in any field that you develop.
Like it or not we are always selling and being sold, so what are we waiting to start learning about this process and take the whole rides of our lifes.
Brian Tracy in a gently manners teach us that the best sellers aren´t born, actually they are made, they prepare themselves and they have a lot of balls and hustle, that we can develop too.
Let's start selling ourselves, with a writing plan and accomplish all of our dreams.
Brian Tracy is very motivational and based on good ethical principles. I found the "Psychology of Success" better than this one. This book seems to be an application of the same principles but with a focus on selling. I recommend Psychology of Success over this one focused more on Selling. Still this was a good read/listen.I'm a professional Salesperson with around 15 years in Business to Business sales in the technology sector. The principles are good solid fundamentals and it was a good refresher for me to think about.
This book teaches a lot about selling. But there aren't enough real life experiences to visualise or to completely understand the facts and lessons given in this book. As a beginner in sales industry, I haven't got enough experience to visualise myself dealing with top level professionals so it becomes really difficult to create a picture in my mind.Overall a very nice read and surely going to help me grow in sales industry!
There is some helpful informatio9n in here but nothing I have not heard before in the thousands of repetition in sales books that corporations use for their sales staff. What dissaponted me the most is that this book focused on tactics the most and enthusiasm and sincerity the least. Even the cover is as cold and calculated as a corrupt governer running for office (the gesture with his right hand - closing the hand but not making a full while pointing but not pointing to directly).
An amazing book for anyone looking to increase their everyday lives through proven sales principles. While it may be best suited to those in sales positions or sales training, the easily transferable real life examples and lessons this book provides allows you to not only redefine your sales process regardless of your industry but re-think the way you approach success, life and of course, selling. Will recommend. 5/5.
Brian Tracy always delivers good value.Lots of good insights in this one packed into a really short read. The main point of this is that sales is a head game and "attitude determines altitude." LOL. Good energy, recommend audio as Brian Tracy narrates it himself and there is good energy.Noteable Quote"I like myself! I like myself!"
When I first began this book I thought it was merely "The Secret" but with the word selling added to this. I am glad I saw this through and finished it. I am not in sales and the information on goal setting alone was worth the read. It also served as a reminder to me about the power of excellence in one's field. I would definitely recommend this book, to those in sales and those who are not.
This is a great read, and even more so if you treat it like a study guide rather than just a self-improvement book. I've highlighted and tagged lots of gems throughout and will be re-reading various chapters to focus on developing particular skills. So it's back on the handy bookshelf-by-the-couch for this one. Highly recommended.
This books gives a lot of ideas and strategies to sell products / services wisely. No one wants to be sold. But, everyone wants to buy. The book gives psychological ways of selling to people by genuinely caring for customers, being their friends, and trying to help them instead of deceptively using tactics to sell products or services to them. Nice book.
I have been waiting this kind of book so far , especially core perspective of sale through fullfiling need and demand in pleasant way I liked the most !!! I recommend all rest out there who are seeking to read this.
Among a lot of books associated with selling and psychology, as befits Brian, he shows the genius in the most simple way. The samples are readable, useful and practical. Just the language is available for everyone, independently from education and future expectations. Absolutely I can recommend it.
I believe that lot of things in the book are false and myth. Still I find few inspirations. Like any other book about selling, you have to choose what you can use in your business
Excelente libro con muchos tips prácticos para utilizarlos en distintos campos.
Step by step a great book.Brain Tracy is a methodical genius.If you want to win sales you must speak less, listen more abs ask questions to entice answers. Then use those answers to your advantage.
Letto in italiano
Good.
