https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153626.Kiss_Me_Deadly
Mickey Spillane is one of the best-selling mystery writers of the twentieth century and rightfully so.
He is most famous for his character Mike Hammer, the toughest private eye that ever walked these streets.
One of the best things about this book is the quick action and violence Hammer takes against all that oppose him.
Although Spillane's work was not loved by literary critics, it is a truly great read for those who have a fondness for crime fiction.
Unlike many other private eyes in the fifties, Hammer did not try to get cute with clever traps or clever anecdotes.
One night, a blonde bounced out before PI Mike Hammer's auto.
At a police barricade, he finds she's on the keep running from a sanatorium, however he passes her off as his significant other.
Other individuals other than the police are after the blonde, and these individuals play unpleasant.
The blonde ends up being the star witness against some big deal mobsters.
He finds that something speaking to a lot of cash, and a great deal of energy, has disappeared, and that a few people will go to any lengths to get it back .
Credit for being an early Mafia story is due, but the style of the denouement is a bit reductive from a few of the earlier novels.
Narrowly avoiding a collision which surely would've left the escapee a blood red smear on the road, Hammer gathers his bearings only to be confronted with the beautiful and curvaceous blond Viking of a woman begging for his help.Hammer, not one to shy away from a dame in distress, invites her into his car and they set off, only to run into some hardened thugs with a hard-on for murder.
I believe this is my first Mike Hammer book.
While driving down a mountain road, Mike Hammer almost runs over a beautiful blond standing in the road.
After she is killed, Mike sets out to solver her murder.
There were many twists and turns as Mike Hammer pursues the killers.
Here are some great quotes from the book that I particularly loved:p113 “I sat down, started to light a cigarette and stopped in the middle of it when the nurse walked in.
It just was, like a steak being grilled over an open fire when you’re starved.”Gotta love it!
The more I read Mike Hammer the more of a parody of itself it seems to be.
Except I don’t know if Spillane is really in on the joke.This time it’s Mike against the Mafia, an organisation with tentacles everywhere but which can still be broken by one man.
He makes his traditional threat, kills a great many scumbags and every dame he meets is more luscious than the last (the NYC of Mike Hammer appears to have supermodels on every block).
It would not win any prizes for literature – and I’m sure Raymond Chandler never lost a wink of sleep – but it does all the things a Mike Hammer novel is supposed to.
The pathetic "noirs" of Stieg Larsson make me recallMickey Spillane. As Capote once said, "There are writers and there are typists." Larsson is strictly a typist. Hismishmasshery of s & m make Spillane read like Proust. For off-the-wall thrills, you can't beat the filmversion of this novel (Robt Aldrich, 1955), which has beencalled "the most perfectly realized film noir ever made."LA is a city in which every road leads to No Exit. What'scoming? A nuclear apocalypse. Sophistication and worldinessenlarge the cold and callous manners.
No wonder many of today's mystery writers refer to him and Mickey Spillane's books.
Hammer has his license and with that, his gun pulled early on so he does all his work by hand, fighting his way through a maze of corruption, the Mafia.
With that said, if it was established when Spillane wrote this book, was wondering if he felt threatened in any way?
Around 1953 when this was published, it was the beginning of the end of noir but this definately has all the elementsof noir.
Heh, it's Mike Hammer.
Hammer is great so no wonder a TV series was made from these books.
This book is acid. It will strip the skin off of your hide, melt it down, and send it to Peoria in a pickle barrel. Mike Hammer at his worst is Spillane at his best. While it moves, it corrodes. Hammer takes a beating like you cannot believe, but still wins out. Fights against gunmen like you cannot believe, but he still wins out. It's completely unbelievable, to be honest. But Spillane won out. I love this book. It's amazing. No one writes like Spillane. Buy a ticket and go for a ride.
Mike Hammer, at it again in his own inimitable style. Classic noir/pulp fiction by one of the best at it.
One of the few instances where the film version is actually better than the book - the film is 5 stars all the way...the book, a solid 4. Track 'em both down...
Our hero seems tired and admits to being old, this will be one of the last Mike Hammers Spillane will write.
The reprint of the original cover had me at first sight- Classic old time pulp fiction.
Fast cars, bluff your way past the police road block , fall into the arms of the bad guys , coat lady gets killed and the poorly faked evidence points to Hammer as the killer.And that takes us to about page 20.
Most of the villains are bad by reputation rather than by anything on the page and all attractive females fall in love with Mike.
I had just finished seeing Robert Aldrich's 1955 film version of Kiss Me, Deadly (without the comma in its title) when I decided I would give Mickey Spillane another chance.
Years ago, I had read I, the Jury and liked it moderately.
Now that I've read Kiss Me, Deadly, I could say that I still like him -- moderately.
I saw a filmed interview with him and saw the reason why: Spillane professed never to rewrite.
He just sat down and hacked it all out.
I could never quite understand what women found to like in him.
Okay sure, there's quite a bit of cornball stuff about Spillane's style.
Oh yeah, and he along with all of his bimbos and thugs go through about 10 packs (or "decks") of ciggies a day in the midst of all of this.The funny thing is though, the guy actually does have a very nice and powerful style whenever he knocks off all those hijinx and manages to cut through the crap.
Paragraphs about the city and rain and so forth that are as good as anything Chandler ever knocked off (and arguably without trying quite so much).If only he could've resisted the urge to act all the time like some hard-boiled bobblehead, he could've had something truly great on his hands.
And if you think THE EXECUTIONER came out of thin air, wait until you read Mickey Spillane's KISS ME, DEADLY that has Mike Hammer take on the entire Mafia in his own inimitable way.Chockfull of the usual twisted violence and kinky foreplay (Hammer seems to hardly ever manage to consume a relationship), this book also features a female character called.....
Usually having a female with a male name would spell utter disaster for that lady in a Spillane book but in this case this seems to have been part of a joke that somehow failed to kick off.Either way, if you like Spillane, you'll love this novel.
nowhere near as good as robert aldrich's movie version of it. the cold war paranoia and the white hot tension are lost.
Το δεύτερο βιβλίο του Μίκι Σπιλέιν που διαβάζω, πάντα με ήρωα τον Μάικ Χάμερ, το πρώτο ήταν το "Εγώ, οι ένορκοι", το οποίο μου φάνηκε λίγο καλύτερο.
Ο Μάικ Χάμερ αυτή τη φορά μπλέκει σε μια περίεργη και περίπλοκη ιστορία, που οδηγεί στη Μαφία και κάτι ναρκωτικά τεράστιας αξίας.
Γραφή κλασική για hard boiled αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα, αλλά και λίγο παλπ.
Πάντως, είναι ό,τι πρέπει για να περάσει ευχάριστα και γρήγορα η ώρα, χωρίς όμως να νιώθεις χαμένος(αν φυσικά σου αρέσουν τα αστυνομικά αυτού του είδους, αν κάποιος ψάχνει κάτι παραπάνω ας ψάξει αλλού)."Αγάπη μου θα σε σκοτώσω", εκδόσεις Πάνθηρ.
This is part of the Mike Hammer series.
It has the gritty, gruff way of portraying aspects.
Since this book has been written we have had so many amazing Mafia stories and movies that this one felt flat.
This one was probably better for when it was written.In my opinion, this book wasn't a highlight of this series.
I loved this part of the book.
This was also its problem as this one did feel dated.
I have liked other books in this series more than this one and I am hoping to like future ones better too.
I suppose those are pretty high expectations, but with all the hype Mickey Spillane's novels got, I would have expected them to be at least worth the effort of finishing them.
Also, knowing before I started the book that Spillane called himself one of Jehovah's Witnesses, I didn't expect his novel to be so...
I know firsthand the way Jehovah's Witnesses conduct themselves, being one myself, and I would have to say that I was shocked by the content and subject of his writing.
I didn't finish it, and I'm pretty sure I wouldn't share it with any of my friends.
I read this in German, in which it was called Rhapsodie in Blei, which is a pun in German, as "Blei" means "lead".
Having seen the movie, I was a bit confused--the novel never mentions anything about nuclear material in the box, and the ending has no glowing house on the beach.
I was rather tired at the end, though, having suffered through a lot of violence.
Some of it required a big suspension of disbelief: tied down to a bed and under watch by several armed goons, it was surely curtains for Mike Hammer.
The descriptions of all the beautiful dames was entertaining, but similar material is done much better by Chandler.

Kiss Me Deadly finds Mike Hammer confronting the Mafia over stolen narcotics.
But this isn't the Mafia of the Godfather or the Sopranos.
Spillane pictures them as a secret shadowy organization like the Illuminati or the Elders of Zion.Compared to other Mike Hammer novels I have read (which all seemed like a rehash of I, The Jury), this one started better, however the ending is completely incoherent.
The fate of one character that had gone missing is never dealt with.
One main characters' identity is proven to be false but it's never explained who she is.
My answer is unequivocally yes, despite the charges of gratuitous violence and sexual titillation.
Those are aspects of Mike Hammer's character -- faults perhaps, but isn't that what noir is all about, the heroic transcending moral weakness in the protagonist?
The plot of Kiss Me, Deadly superbly orchestrates this transcendence, as Hammer stays one step ahead of the Mafia in solving the central mystery.
And yes, this is a mystery, with a fair amount of ratiocination.
Not Hercule Poirot, certainly -- but if Poirot had to put up with what Mike Hammer does .
Mike Hammer is the main character.I've re-read most of Spillane's novels. They're hoaky, dated & fun. I don't care for the Tiger Mann books much. He gets really hoaky with them - tough guy who screws around on his virginal fiancee but loves her so much he aches. The later Mike Hammer books go that way too. Mike Hammer ranks a little higher with me, but not a lot.I enjoy Spillane's stand alone stories more. Those characters tend not to be as hoaky, just as tough & the plots are fair with lots of action. They're a good, quick read.
#6 in the Mike Hammer series.Mike Hammer series - No dame is pretty with a gun in her hand.
But at least this one was alive.
The last time Mike Hammer met up with a blonde she ended up dead, and Hammer inherited a war with the Mob. As he digs deeper, he discovers that about fifteen years ago the Mafia had been double crossed.
Now, people are dying because of it and the girl with the gun is a crucial witness in the case.
While Hammer's enemies are searching the city for him, he is ready to go after them.
Il detective duro per eccellenza, buono quanto basta ma soprattutto giusto oltre ogni limite. Ce ne vorrebbero... Tacciato di torpiloquismo negli anni '50, oggi quel linguaggio conserva la sua brutalità quasi senza offendere, tanto si è abbassato il livello di decenza soprattutto di molte trasmissioni televisive. Se la contendono lui e Callaghan, e temo che il buon vecchio Clint debba cedere ai ragazzi grandi...
The rockin' wrecking ball of Mike Hammer must be called back via movies like Kill Bill, Reservoir Dogs and Pulp fiction... I want to see this movie done in the Kill Bill style by Tarantino. Totally misogynist and sickly violent, but such an interesting look back on the 1950s postwar USA. It's a roller coaster of broken teeth, bleeding bellies and limbs ripped away from the evil powers that be... Intense.
Having been a long time fan of the film and never having read any Spillane before, I was curious... and although I enjoyed the book and will probably read some more of his work at some time, quite frankly I got a little bored with the plot. The more surreal quality of the film was more appealing to me. It's obviously a piece of its time which is interesting in itself - quite sexy in a charming restrained way, even though it deals with brutal people.
I liked the 1955 movie better. Cloris Leachman's first big break. Too bad she dies so soon. The movie became a cult classic and film noir. Ralph Meeker as Mike Hammer. A.I. Bezzerides, in writing the screenplay, took liberties with the plot which made it better in my opinion.Stacy Keach is my favorite Hammer.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0048261/http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0086760/
This book was my doorway into the private investigator world of books. I loved it and thought Mike Hammer was a tough SOB. I remember reading this when I was around 10 or so. Mike was a non nonsense type of guy. It was an eye opener and Mickey Spillane was probably the biggest influence in my writing today.
