https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1983769.The_Tortoise_and_the_Hare
My girl Hilary Mantel was the means of my discovery of Elizabeth Jenkins.
Genius!) was a copy of The Tortoise and the Hare by Elizabeth Jenkins.
She also talented and smart enough to never let you feel comfortable in your choice of which character is the tortoise and which is the hare.
Could Imogen possibly lose her husband to Margaret Rutherford’s twin?Jenkins rounds out this unusual love triangle with a clear eyed look at neighbors, friends and the upper middle class country life of the period.
I adored The Tortoise and the Hare and I cannot wait to read more Elizabeth Jenkins!
The Tortoise and the Hare was Elizabeth Jenkin’s sixth novel, one which was described to me recently as a forgotten masterpiece. I have had a copy for a while so I absolutely had to read it right away. My only other experience of Elizabeth Jenkins was in the novel Harriet – published by Persephone books. Of her writing Hilary Mantel – in her introduction to this edition says: “…she is like Jane Austen: formal, nuanced, acid. She surveys a room as if she were perched on the mantelpiece: an unruffled owl of Minerva, a recording angel”My full review here: http://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/1...
UGH.Another abandoned book.Read 70 pages from the start, found myself rolling my eyes so I skipped to the last 30 pages to see if it really is as predictable as I’m guessing and nope…this is not for me. The writing is stunning but the story and the characters are so cringe-worthy and stereotypical I wanted to gouge my eyes.
This book lived up to the title....the writing gripped me from the beginning, then slowly drip fed me more and more until the very end.
I had never heard of this book.
There is not much of a plot, nor did I especially feel much affinity for any of the characters, but I cannot stop thinking about the story several days later and I think it's one that will stay with me for a while.
The blurb gives just enough detail of what happens, but cannot convey how simply wonderful the story evolves.
Repressed and wounded vanities render Imogen, a beautiful trophy wife, inadequate...
(So frustrating.) You can only give enough benefit of the doubt to someone who for 241 pages out of 275 is continuously being psychologically beaten, showing weakness, and debilitating reticence over her marriage until you have to decide that this person is pretty much not at all a heroine and maybe she likes wallowing in her own misery.
I was so frustrated with Imogen.
It's anathema to my reading ethos.
But I kept reading.
This is a really deep-cutting look at being a woman in an unhappy marriage and one I'll keep thinking about for a very long time.

Husband Evelyn is a barrister, distinguished in both career and looks.
He’s much more interested in their new neighbour Blanche Silcox, a huntin’, shootin’ and fishin’ type who drives a Roller and ferries Evelyn up and down to his chambers and incrementally worms her way into his life and his affections.
The Greshams’ only child – the horrid son Gavin - favours his father and, as time goes on, it is only Gavin’s young friend Tim who really seems to like Imogen.
I cannot imagine any other piece of work striking such icy dread into my married veins.
“Do you know what men fall in love with?” Paul asks, while she remains sweetly and knowingly ignorant of his undeclared affections.Even Imogen and Evelyn’s final showdown (brilliantly rehearsed in my mind, at least) is ultimately a let down.
It does not matter, for in the end, Imogen and Blanche are both prey.
The tortoise - the clumsy defender, retreating beneath the fortress of a shell; the hare - elegant and swift, but vulnerable to traps.
Before she knows it, Imogen is hearing Blanche's name is just about every conversation she has with Evelyn, watching (or hearing) him make runs to Blanche's comfortable home, and putting up with Blanche's playing an increasing role not only in the life she has with her husband (Blanche drives Evelyn to and from London on a weekly basis, orders firewood for both their houses, telephones him regularly) but also her son Gavin too.
Imogen's friends are loyal and caring, but they watch her suffering without much means to comfort her.
This was a really good book, and much more complex than it would seem at first. The writing was good, but what was especially strong was the plot, and the juxtaposition of the two women, Imogen and Blanche. It is also really interesting to see this book to address what was expected of men and women at the time the book was published, and pretty much turn these expectations inside out. I think this book has quite a bit to say about men and women and marriage, and is overall a very worthwhile read.
The tortoise and the hare tells the story of a seemingly happy couple, Evelyn and Imogen Gresham.
Blanche Silcox is not really beautiful and she's, I think, older than Evelyn.
There is some degree of truth here; Blanche, despite everything, comes off as rather unsympathetic, a woman who knows precisely what she is doing, and what she wants.
Perhaps it is because of this that I am a little annoyed that Blanche, such an independent and strong woman, is so prone to lay down her life for Evelyn whereas Imogen, far weaker and less independent, is more prone to question the way she was brought up.
Gem of a book. Fascinating and well-written portrayal of a marriage in 1950's England. Have become an admirer of Elizabeth Jenkins....
What a strange book.
I am tempted to exchange the word strange for dull, but there was something about it that kept me reading about Imogen and her pretty rotten life, wife to the obnoxious lawyer Evelyn and coping with her objectionable son Gavin.
Add the quietly intrusive neighbour Miss Silcox into the mix and what was a standard 1950s marriage soon begins to feel like a bit of a nightmare.
But having said that it still wouldn't figure high on my 'to read again' pile.
This one is a great read but it isn't the comfiest of books - stressful and frustrating!https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/1...
"The Tortoise and the Hare" is a story about the impact that "the other woman" has on the lives of a married couple, and in particular on how the wronged woman (in this instance, Imogen) reacts to the scheming machinations of the interloper (in this instance, Blanche).
But who, of the two of them, is the tortoise and who is the hare?The brilliance of this novel lies in the skilful and believable way in which it portrays the pain, the anxiety and the helplessness that Imogen experiences as she tries to come to terms with her husband's unfaithfulness.
'The Tortoise and the Hare' was thrown at me as an out-of-the-blue recommendation on Twitter, the trigger being my enthusiastic post about Dorothy Whipple's 'Someone At A Distance'.
Like Whipple, Elizabeth Jenkins sets her story in the still stifling social world of post-war England, delivering acute observations on the undercurrents of human relationships - the frantic paddling below the mill pond - at times funny, but more often piercingly true to the point of pain.
Even the plot of 'The Tortoise and the Hare' is similar to Whipple's 'From A Distance', taking the reader through the torturous journey of a 'good' woman gradually losing her husband to another 'predatory' female.
There is a recent documentary film called ‘The Queen of Versailles’ about a time share tycoon and his much younger trophy wife building the largest private home in America; their ridiculous wealth is flaunted in the beginning, but it all goes pear-shaped in the 2008 financial crisis.
The elderly husband weighed down by financial responsibility and the fate of his employees, turns on his trophy wife in an interview, dismissing her as ‘just another child.’ Here Imogen, a child wife, married for her beauty and submissiveness is usurped by a middle-aged mothering interloper who is capable of performing her husband’s every whim.
It describes husband and wife relationships that were typical prior to the mid 20th century, but have certainly not disappeared since then either.
"Wife" is not a good goal even though women have been so typically trained in that concept.
I will stop there with the examples.We've seen this story before on the fiction page and in reality, and Jenkins adds further depth by looking at less stereotypical parts of a husband and wife biography.
I think that it was the obituary for Elizabeth Jenkins in The Guardian that led me to this book.
Not only that, but the obit included enough about her novel, The Tortoise and the Hare, that I decided I had to read it.I was not disappointed by the book.
I don't want to give away the story, but let's just say if this was a contemporary novel, I would expect Imogen to be doing something, anything on her own behalf.
For Jenkins to overcome my usual reactions is proof (to me) that she is a skilled writer.I don't think this book could be written now.
Blanche Silcox, on the other hand, is an independent woman, a magnetic force, a solid mother figure, that lures Evelyn in with her ease and wit.
The graceful Imogen must witness her faithless husband turn to an unattractive older woman - and she learns that good looks doesn't guarantee any safety at all.
A woman who she has never even considered as a treat turns her safe marriage routine upside-down.Does that make Imogen the hare, then?
(view spoiler)[Blanche might gain a husband - but an unfaithful one, and Imogen might be alone, but she will learn to be independent.
My hand initially passed over it on the library shelf and then returned to read the book jacket.
What good luck because published in 1954, this is a beautifully written novel that captures the conflicts of life in England at that time and yet, remains current today.The challenges within relationships on many levels are the center questions of this novel as are the assumptions we tend to make about what attracts people to each other, what sustains relationships, the “treaties” that are made.
There are also a host of kind, generous, intelligent characters who offer hope and a new vision to each other.
Elizabeth Jenkins writes beautifully, especially her descriptions of nature - and I can see the influence of Jane Austen, mentioned by Mantel.
I did not feel any sympathy for her husband, Evelyn.I can't do any better than quote from Carmen Callil's afterword:-'Elizabeth Jenkins has a wry and precise way of assessing and describing women, and the intelligence which illuminates this eloquent cry against betrayal is icy, dazzling.
This is a novel about women and beauty, about husbands as protectors and demi-gods, about women and work, about different kinds of loving, about an England well gone,and about the centuries of instruction to women to be beautiful and submissive, reminding us, in the most enchanting way, what a waste of life and time such instructions always were.'
(view spoiler)[Imogen is a beautiful woman who believes that what men want from women is their beauty; she expects to be worshipped, and to worship in turn, and her interest in people seems limited to how much they appreciate her.
Even in crisis, realising her marriage may be over, Imogen cannot think about the marriage as a relationship between herself and Evelyn; she sees it all as a competition between women about who he will want and she is devastated because (as she says later to her best friend), she now has to "realize what I've lost to" (189).
Some of the facts parallelled what could be my own story, coming of age in the 50s and I found it annoying that I could identify with Imogen.
I kept saying to myself, God, woman, stand up!(As neither here nor there,I had forgotten that at that time, 50 was considered old which today is amusing.) The visit to the antique shop which sets the relationship of Evelyn and Imogen is brilliant.
The things that struck me were what makes love, repressed feelings, the duty to please, the power of men in the 50s and the uneveness of power in relationships.
The fact that Imogen could not connect with her own son was very sad.
Divorce, Separation and illicit affairs were dealt with very differently in the 40s/50s when this novel was written , but still the same heart breaking consequences as in modern day.
It's not a happy read but a very well written classic and highly recommended.
One final point the son Gavin - what a total spoilt horrible little git.
I'm glad to say no boys in my family / children of friends , behave like that with that Attitude and behaviour towards their mums.
So I'd say modern little boys are far far nicer !
Perhaps it's because I read late at night, but I struggled to work out why Evelyn wanted to leave Imogen for Blanche. Perhaps the book made it clear and I missed it or perhaps we are meant to make up our own minds. Was it that their age difference made them incompatible? Did Evelyn want companionship that Imogen couldn't provide? Was he after Blanches money? Is it suggesting that attraction based on looks doesn't withstand time ? What happened with Imogen and Hunter ? I'm confused! Perhaps a daytime re-read is needed !
A beautifully written novel about a marriage in crisis. Imogen is sensitive, submissive and married to the older, arrogant Evelyn. Blanche is an unlikely threat but manipulates her way into Evelyn's affections. A keen eye for the subtle detail of her characters which are brilliantly portrayed in a struggle which is very moving. I loved her thoughtful, emotive writing.
My copy has a quote from Hilary Mantel on the cover: "as smooth and seductive as cream". I can't possibly better that description of Jenkins' wily art, but must warn other frustration-/rage-criers, being smothered in cream isn't nearly as delicious as it sounds.
It grew on me a bit as I got further into it but I did find it very slow and quite predictable. The writing was good but a bit over flowery for my personal tastes. Lots of description and not much happening. I can understand why some people would love this book, but it just wasn't really for me.
Such a beautiful, well written book. You can watch my review here - http://youtu.be/4KvVG7yODh4
