https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73927.Sherlock_Holmes
This collection brings together many of the most famous short stories about the great fictional detective Sherlock Holmes by the great writer Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.BooksThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes (1892)by Sir Arthur Conan DoyleThe Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes (1894)by Sir Arthur Conan DoyleThe Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes is a collection of Sherlock Holmes stories originally published in 1894.The Return of Sherlock Holmes (1905)by Sir Arthur Conan DoyleHis Last Bow: A Reminiscence of Sherlock Holmes (1917)by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
When i read, sherlock will have a lot of experience and fame, but I will lose my mind....When I bought the Book ,I Watch Seriais at the same time .I Think ,I lost my mind a lot
"Haven't you read this book like, 20 times?" "....Yep."After reading it so many times... There are new realisations of the flaws in the deductions and conclusions. But I still rate this collection highly because the stories are not merely whodunnits, which lose its value after the first read. There is something delightful about his writing, where one feels transported back to the Victorian times.
Look Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson are my dads and I love them idk what you want me to tell you. Anyway here's the top ten faves:- Speckled Band- Red Headed League- Solitary Cyclist- Resident Patient - Copper Beeches- Dancing Men - Second Stain - Man with the twisted lip- Charles Augustus Milverton- Devil's FootHonorable mention: the Blue Carbuncle because you have to have the Christmas special.
There are a lot of great mysteries here, and a few not so great (*cough*the Veiled Lodger *cough*), but great as they are, it's Sherlock Holmes's personality and the dynamic between him and good friend Watson that lift the stories to the next level - the level of eternal devotion of a huge fan base.
They really know their Sherlock and it was a lot of fun discovering the show's references to the short stories - tobacco hidden in slippers, "Come at once if convenient.
This means that while we miss classics like A Study In Scarlet (the first Holmes story) and The Hound of the Baskervilles, both of which are novel-length, we get a real treat.
This collection has some of my all-time favourite stories: The Speckled Band, The Dancing Men, The Red-Headed League etc.
The reason for this is simple: these are the original Sherlock Holmes stories.
There is, of course, the period after the climactic second series where Sherlock Holmes 'died' at Reichenbach Falls and these are generally considered to be poorer than the earlier stories.
What can you say? Sherlock is still the number one detective and this is the edition my mother has on her shelves and what I kept dipping into when I was a kid. There's everything, the mysteries, Sherlock and Watson and the villains. They are intriguing, gripping and you never, never get tired of them. Essential.
15- The stage lost a fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.43- My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplace of existence.
44-My dear fellow, life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent.
It is only goodness which gives extras, and so I say again that we have much to hope from the flowers.448- There are some trees Watson, which grow to a certain height and then suddenly develop some unsightly eccentricity.
Wow. Let us just ignore the date I stared reading this.
It's the problem with short stories: they are easy to put down at the end of the story, and hard to pick up again when in the middle of a novel.This was a fabulous read.
I had read most of these a couple (or more) decades ago, so my memory of them was mostly non-existent.
I really felt like pointing out that child birth should prove that ALL women are not weak little delicate beings.
I'm just glad that has changed.I would really recommend this edition to fans of Sherlock too.
I like mystery. I like British mystery. I like classics. How have I never read Sherlock Holmes? I'm so glad that I took a deep plunge in, reading every Sherlock Holmes short story ever written, and have now experienced this fantastic series. Now for the novels, I suppose. I didn't like every story, but I enjoyed the experience overall.
Really enjoyed these stories and I seldom guessed the outcome (which is not always the case).Quite un-PC (the era, I guess) which made me cringe on occasions.
"Once you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains, no matter how improbable, must be the truth." From the beginning introduction of Holmes and Watson to Holmes' gentle retirement to beekeepping on the southern coast of England, this book contains all the essential stories (none of the apocryphal, anecdotal, or tribute-written pieces are contained here).
This handsome collection contains all 56 short stories written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle about the world´s most famous detective Sherlock Holmes.
Then you just have to look for the missing elements that can fill the holes in your various hypotheses.Book Details: Title The Complete Illustrated Short Stories of Sherlock HolmesAuthor Sir Arthur Conan DoyleReviewed By Purplycookie
Sherlock Holmes ( /ˈʃɜrlɒk ˈhoʊmz/) is a fictional detective created by Scottish author and physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. A London-based "consulting detective" whose abilities border on the fantastic, Holmes is famous for his astute logical reasoning, his ability to adopt almost any disguise, and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.I borrowed this book from our school library when I was still in High-school. I thought I lost this book forever. I paid the library and
A London-based "consulting detective" whose abilities border on the fantastic, Holmes is famous for his astute logical reasoning, his ability to adopt almost any disguise, and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.I borrowed this book from our school library when I was still in High-school.
I paid the library and I didn't bother to look for it but after long 4 years, My book finally showed up begging me to read him.
So I read Sherlock Holmes and fell in love with him.
It's fun to solve crimes with sherlock holmes.
For those of who don’t know (highly unlikely) , Sherlock Holmes is a private investigator who operates out of his rooms at 221B Baker Street in London, England.
He is a well-to-do bachelor, takes only the cases that interest him.
It takes a great amount of time and efforts for his associate/ faithful sidekick, Dr. Watson, to wean him away from his addiction, whether he’ll be completely successful in his attempts, is something for the readers to find out.
Holmes is a wit and takes delight at the opportunity to outwit the clever villains and foils his schemes.
He needs to get some papers from his wife so he can divorce her.
while she is distracted he slips out the papers and takes off.I would reccomend this book to my friends who like detective books.
Sherlock is so clever and attentive to detail it's scary.
I would compare sherelock to Jason Bourne they both are really smart at solving things and are attentive to detail.
In the Bourne Ultimatum Bourn is faced with needing to get out of house and get away in three minutes.
The cops detain the back-up team and Bourne slips away.
I cannot help but marvel at Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's genius at creating his Sherlock Holmes adventures.
Every story is so indulging and so packed with rounds of horror and brilliance that once you start, you can't possibly want to stop.
A character as complex and as brilliant as Sherlock Holmes and his science of deduction is truly one-of-a-kind, and something which probably no one could match in centuries to come.
And I do wish to commend on the brilliance of creating such Dr. Watson and at having the stories be presented in his view.
How intimate Holmes and Watson's relationship is.
Though there was a certain boredom with the repetitive style of Doyle's writing, I did enjoy Watson's accounts of the "singular" adventures that Holmes and he had experienced.
I do appreciate the fact that, although presenting Holmes as the all-seen-eye of justice most of the time, Doyle also shows that even the great detective can be at his wit's end more than once, thus revealing a more humane side to his character.
As Watson puts it, "It was worth a wound it was worth many wounds to know the depth of loyalty and love which lay behind that cold mask."All in all, a great bedtime stories book.
Sherlock Holmes by Conan Doyle.986 pg.
mysteryLondon, 1881.
Sherlock Holmes is on the case.
In each one of these short stories, Sherlock Holmes solves an impossible mystery while his trusty assistant Watson records them dutifully.
Holmes is a very careful observer, and few are better than him.
He uses logical reasoning to derive complex observations out of minute ordinary details.I really enjoyed this novel since Holmes explains his logic and I apply some of it to my daily life.
Sherlocks Holmes' most famous statement is "You walked on the stairs plenty of times, yet you don't know that there are 17.
This is a lovely volume of Sherlock Holmes stories, all with the original illustrations.
I'm not sure that there's a huge amount to say about the stories themselves, beyond the obvious.
Watson is a likeable everyman narrator who puts up with Holmes smugness better than most people would, and some of the deductions seem a little tenuous to me, but that detracts nothing from them.
To me, Conan Doyle's detective is as readable as he ever was and the companion volume containing the four Holmes novels is on my shelf, to be tackled soon (although after fifty-six stories, I may need a break first).
I bought this book when i was 13 and left it sitting on my TBR shelf for some years. my excuse was that the print was too small and the book very bulky. I picked it up after I gained some appreciation for adventure stories and small print or not I read through it. reading these stories gave me an appetite for thriller stories which haven't abated yet. these stories are a wonder to both adults and children alike and I highly recommend(as if they need recommendation)them.
Only got as far as The Hounds of Baskerville, which is 50% according to the Kindle, before I got bored. Interesting to read since I've watched a lot of the adaptations (liking the BBC version best). But very wordy and showy. Fascinating Watson's feelings for Holes, though. There has to be some crazy slash fiction out there...
Truly amazing. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was a literary genius. I have to say, my favourites of this would have to be either 'A Scandal in Bohemia' or 'The Adventure of the Dying Detective'. One of the best books I have ever read
holmes & watson! was hooked to the series from a very early stage in my life!i would rate the stories as the best ever written in the detective genre...the stories can be read a hundred times without getting bored!
a universe in itself......really won't get bored of this.....keep on examining all the finer details....one of the most masterly descriptions of the late victorian era...the inconsistencies in chronology are easily forgiven..
Love these. Had these books 30 years and I still like to dip in for a read.
This is something very entertaining with a good sense of literature. Sherlock holmes is a legendary character.
The greatest!
Always interesting and fun to read.
After reading these stories, other detectives just don't cut it anymore. This is the true origin of Hercule Poirot.
GREAT read, as always--I love revisiting the ol' mysteries. Especially love "The Return of Sherlock Holmes," which I read in anticipation of the Masterpiece Theatre new season (I hope?)
