https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39801.The_White_Lioness
Kenneth Branagh is Wallander/When a real estate agent turns up missing, Kurt Wallander of the Ystad Swedish police catches the case along with most of the department.
Wallander makes a breakthrough in the case, and this is one of those moments when time is of the essence, and he takes the day off to be with his daughter.
They find the severed finger of a black man at the scene where they believe the real estate agent went missing.
I found it interesting that Mankill takes us from the mind of Wallander to the political musings of several politicians in South Africa.
I'm only reviewing this one book, but I've read the entire detective series by Henning Mankell, and I am a huge fan.
I first became aware of him after returning from a trip to Sweden in 2004, and then discovered he has a cult following in Europe and is beginning to have one in the U.S. He has written all kinds of novels, but I've focused on his mystery series featuring Swedish police officer Kurt Wallander.
It's that human-ness, and what I think of as a Swedish pessimism, that makes this series so intoxicating.
The story starts simply enough with the murder of a real estate agent who finds herself in the wrong place at the wrong time, but it quickly spins into a major international conspiracy involving a plot by die-hard South African whites to assassinate Nelson Mandela, shortly after he was released from prison.The plotters have recruited a black assassin to murder Mandela, hoping to spark a race war that will enable the whites to continue to control the country.
But it drags on a bit too long, and it's hard for Mankell to maintain the suspense throughout the book.I'm rating this three stars rather than four because over the course of the story, Kurt Wallander occasionally takes actions that make no sense.
Kurt Wallander and South Africa.One of Sweden’s most recognized fiction crime fighters gets caught up in international espionage in this 1993 post cold war thriller that has half of it’s action involving the end of Apartheid in South Africa as the reigning Boers free Nelson Mandela and all hell breaks lose.What keeps this moving and what holds it together is author Henning Mankell’s excellent writing (and to be fair Laurie Thompson’s translation) and his ability to convey a subtle but unsettling sense of disquietude in the Swedish coast town of Ystad.
Henning, dude, if you want to write a book about how it sucks to live in racist South Africa, I'm all for it. But I picked up this book because it was a KURT WALLANDER mystery. Wallander--the SWEDISH policeman, for christsakes...is he really going to foil a plot to assassinate Nelson Mandela? I want to read about SWEDISH police doing SWEDISH things like solving murders in SKANE, drinking coffee and eating sandwiches. If I wanted to read the Ladies Detective series, I would have joined a book club...
It was hard to avoid the feeling that Mankell really was much more interested in writing about southern Africa, where he spent part of the year living for a fair chunk of his life, rather than his shabby Detective living in gloomy Scandinavia.I was thoroughly involved right up until the second murder, at which point I lost all emotional investment in the story, but if you are a murder mystery fan, you'll probably enjoy this better than I did.
Reading teaches me that I'm not suited to the murder mystery genre I suppose.
We write what we know and so it is to be expected that some of Mankell's fondness for Africa would show up in a Wallander book (he has written stand alones that focus on Africa, novels such as A Treacherous Paradise, The Eye of the Leopard, or his Chronicler of the Winds), but the case can be made that as an author just because you know Africa or love its people, it doesn't mean that one should attempt to incorporate it in a Wallander series that takes place far removed from such passions.
is this really what I want to read in a proper noir/crime novel?
The first two books had many flaws but they were also interesting in a certain way because they mainly focused on the characters and the crime.
I obviously get the point, Mankell had good intentions but when I pick up a crime novel I enjoy reading about the most simple characters in their daily surroundings, it is absolutely enough for an exciting story.
If you want to write a proper book about politics or about Mandela then that's fine.
I approached The White Lioness tentatively, afraid that I wouldn't like it and that it could very well mark the end of my appreciation for the written Wallander.Faceless Killers was a somewhat uninspired though compelling murder mystery.
It was a political thriller in the guise of a cop mystery, and Kurt Wallander's foray into Latvia felt too forced and uncharacteristic (despite the book's early place in the Wallander chronology) to rise above Mankell's personal, political agenda.
He tells two parallel stories: one is a tense murder mystery starring Kurt Wallander at his unpredictable best; the other is a suspenseful political thriller set in de Klerk’s Africa at the tail end of apartheid.
****.I wish I had had the foresight to read Mankell’s books in order, although, ultimately it didn’t make any difference.
Several says after her disappearance, her husband shows up at the local police station and reports her ‘missing’ to Wallander.
A man in the process of stealing well pumps for ultimate re-sale as antiques discovers a woman’s body at the bottom of one the wells he was raiding, and reports it to the police.
I usually try to keep track of the characters in a book by writing down their names as I go along, in addition to a brief description of them.
This is the third book of the Wallander series.The plot is around an execution-style murder of a Swedish housewife.
This apparent simple investigation unmasks a murder plot against President De Klerk and the future South-african president Nelson Mandela.
As usual, Inspector Wallander gives his own personal way in this crime investigation.The book's tittle refers to an albino lioness and its real meaning is given below:Page 383:He was thinking about the white lioness.
The beast of prey one cannot afford to wound, but which has to be killed if it starts to attack.A movie was made based on this book: The White Lioness (1996).And Keneth Branagah played the role of Kurt Wallander in BBC Series - The White Lioness (2015).
So far it's been my experience that the Kurt Wallander series seems to improve with each successive novel. This one was rich in setting, characters, and interwoven incidents that held my attention throughout. A very good read to me.
Mankell undertook a difficult premise ... major related crimes on two continents, without much coordination between the police. I am intrigued by Wallender with all of his flaws and uncertainties. The African side was relatively weaker, with no well-developed characters to care about. The ending was staged and anti-climatic. So I gave it 3*** on a stretch. Other books in this series are better.
Published in 1993, this is the third book in the Kurt Wallander series, and the best in my opinion, preceded by-Faceless Killers and The Dogs of Riga.
When Wallander has a case to solve, he is like a dog with a bone.
More than half of this book takes place in South Africa, with the political turmoil of Nelson Mandela's rise to power, as the country is on the verge of its first free elections in April of 1994.
Markell places Wallander, via the case he is working, in the middle of a complicated plot to assassinate Mandela as he speaks to a huge crowd.
Mankell deftly – normally I dislike books with multiple points of view, but they are nicely integrated here – alternates between the committee and its representatives who are planning to assassinate Nelson Mandela in hopes of instigating a violent chaotic response from the black community that would force de Klerk to rigidly suppress it , and de Klerk’s intelligence man who has to work in secret himself to find the truth.
The albino lioness, visited by one of de Klerk’s agents on safari, becomes a metaphor not just for the South African white community, dangerous and unpredictable, but also the blindness and density of fog.
Written just before South Africa would throw away the worst of its horrific identity, Mankell once again writes a book that is so very rooted in the time of its writing - here the early 90s leading up to the eventual free elections in 1994.
We turn a page and leave Wallander behind.
The narrative here is still excellently written and Mankell gives us a very creditable, though Swedish filtered attempt at showing Afrikaner society through the eyes of de Klerk, the secret service and a shadowy organisation dedicated to preserving apartheid by assassinating Mandela.
Any half decent assassin would probably conduct his preparations in a neighbouring country.Eventually the action returns back to Sweden and the book starts to burn again.
The White Lioness, by Henning Mankell B-minus.Narrated by Dick Hill, produced by Blackstone audio, downloaded from audible.comThis is the first Mankell book that I’ve been disappointed with.
In this book, Wallander and the national police force of Sweden inadvertently become involved in an assassination plot in South Africa.
They soon come to believe she was only killed because she was at the wrong place at the wrong time, but what was really going on?This book was disappointing to me because it was not well organized.
I think it is disappointing that Blackstone has chosen to have Dick Hill narrate the Mankell books.
Homicídios, investigação policial, conspiração política e bastante suspense fazem deste livro um policial entusiasmante em que as páginas voam. Gosto do comissário Wallander e gosto das intrigas engendradas por Henning Mankell. Uma saga para continuar.
A very good story and a very good narrator. 5 stars!
A police procedural, historical fiction and thriller wrapped into one in this the third of Henning Mankell's Kurt Wallander series.
Por tercera ocasión ha sido un placer que el inspector Wallander me pueda permitir ver un poco mas de su vida y el como resuelve los casos tan crudos que le tocan en su trabajo.Este libro lo veo como 2 historias diferentes, la de Wallander está excelente pero la de Sudafrica se siente completamente como relleno de la historia, aunque las implicaciones históricas que maneja son fuertes.
And the stitching of the two narratives, although mirroring Mankell’s dual life lived in Africa and Sweden, does not make them hang well together either.I’m told that The White Lioness has been televised in Season 4 of the series, which I haven’t watched yet, and with Kenneth Branagh once again playing our drowsy cop.
Apparently, “don’t show when you can spend pages telling” is Mankell’s style (or else he has a truly bad translator.) Secondly, this is the second book in a row in which Wallander is involved in massive international intrigue and I just don’t find this particularly believable.
(The first novel of the series had an “ordinary” murder, but four of the five I’ve read – out of order – involve either James Bond-ish stuff or serial killers.
I don’t need several hundred pages to tell me this!Now, I am a completist, so I’ll keep reading the remaining handful of novels in the series, but I’m definitely not impressed!
The White Lioness is book number three in Mankell's series of crime novels Ystad detective featuring Kurt Wallander.
Called in to investigate her disappearance (and ultimately her death), Wallander and his team had no idea that their search for a killer would take them across the world to South Africa (the year is 1992), where a small cabal was planning a major assassination which its members hoped would set events in motion to stop the plans for disassembling the policy of apartheid in that country.
I'd definitely recommend this one to fans of Mankell, to those who like Scandinavian mysteries (which, in my mind, are simply excellent), and to those readers who want a mystery novel that is engrossing.
A murder happens quickly in the story and the hunt for the killer by Detective Kurt Wallander becomes intense and actually obsessive by the policeman.
The plot is about another murder plan in motion, one that will affect an entire nation and bring chaos to its citizens.
Even after the story was done I find myself thinking of some of the characters.
Confused as I became with the many characters and other plots, were satisfied and understood and therefore I will read and/or listen to another Mankell detective novel and I think for those who enjoy a "who done it" will want to engage themselves in this story.
One of those books for which I stayed up late three nights in a row to read. Mankell's famous chief inspector Wallander is an interesting mess of a man: fundamentally pragmatic, noble, and kind-hearted but with patches of the naive and the childishly impulsive. This book in particular focuses on how he, a small-town Swedish policeman, is faced with the fact that globalization and more porous borders is affecting his everyday practice...and possibly his ethics. Is his Sweden changing for the better or for the worse?
Este livro é deveras interessante. Não se limita a ser um policial. O crime que o inspector começa por investigar é apenas um acessório para falar de terrorismo, poder e luta pela liberdade.Apesar de não gostar de livros baseados em histórias verídicas, adoro ler um livro, tal como este, em que o autor cria personagens e as coloca a interagir com pessoas reais.Aos poucos vou conhecendo Kurt Wallender, que se vai revelando uma personagem muito cativante pela sua humanidade. E gostamos da mesma canção...
Je dois malheureusement donner une seule étoile pour ce livre parce que j'ai eu de la difficulté à le poursuivre du début à la fin.
La narration est lourde parce qu'elle suit au moins 10 personnages différents et il est difficile de tous les situer et de se souvenir de leur position dans cette histoire.
Puisqu'il y a genre 10 personnes qui sont suivi par la narration je vous laisse imaginer combien de personnages sont mentionnés au total....genre une trentaine c'est difficile à suivre solide.
J'ai vraiment eu de la difficulté à garder mon intérêt pour ce livre et je ne pense pas que l'on puisse considérer ceci comme un "thriller"...quand même déçue :(
La mitad de la novela transcurre en Sudáfrica y es más un thriller político que un policial. A esto le sumo que el supuesto protagonista, Wallander, aparece bastante poco y casi como un personaje secundario.Resultado: un bodoque de casi 600 páginas que me aburrió bastante y estuve tentada de abandonar. Parecen 2 novelas separadas a las que se les hicieron un par de arreglos torpes y a último momento para conectarlas.Así que, muy a mi pesar ya que en general me gustan mucho los libros de Mankell, para mí es el más flojo y pesado de la serie.
The Wallender series takes a big step forward here, with an incredibly ambitious effort involving Sweden, South Africa and the KGB in a story involving an assassination attempt on Nelson Mandela. I very much enjoyed the juxtaposition of cultures and characters in this novel. My only complaint was that it might have actually been TOO ambitious, which necessitated some plot twists that were rather unbelievable. That's a fairly small quibble given my enjoyment of the book.
