https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24782.Taran_Wanderer
Taran WandererAs Taran goes enquiring for his parentage,To find the deepest secrets of his heritage,He finds more than he bargains for by far,As he’s forced to meet his inner self and sparWith the riddle of what heritage actually means;Unexpected is the answer that he gleans.

2.5 starsIt's nice fairytale-like story that reminds me of stories I read as kid early in early grades.I think it's ok middle grade read but not much more. Young me would like this book but adult me found it uninteresting. That maybe reasonable but there are some books like Coraline, Graveyard book, Un Lun Dun that both my middle grade self and my adult self would adore.
Taran has already had many adventures, fought many foes, won several battles, and fallen in love with Princess Eilonwy.
I just love this series.In his travels, Taran is offered King Smoit’s kingdom and refuses it.
Before his quest ends (I won’t tell you if he’s nobly born or not), he realizes the folly of looking to blood to prove one’s worth: “When I was a child I dreamed of adventure, glory of honor in feats of arms.
I believe in the next book, The High King, that Taran will face Arawn in a final battle and emerge as the leader of all Prydain.
Of the five books, this affected me most. I felt so much for Taran, his loss, his loneliness, his sufferings. I love the fullness of his characterization.
U odnosu na prethodne knige ova je dosta ... mirnija, daje vremena da se diše a i sam fokus nije ni na čemu epskom već pokušaju spoznaje samog sebe. E sada ima malo previše kuknjave za moj ukus ali opet sve je nekako ozbiljnije, manje humora i ima dosta finih rečenica i stvari koje mogu da poteraju na razmišljanje tako da može preporuka.One more to go :)
(hide spoiler)]The traditional triple goddesses who in these books literally weave the fates of mice and men, creating an inconveniently long comic strip version of what we read remind me of  Where ever you go, there you are because unlike the rest of us who cannot ever take a break from being ourselves and forever carry the consequences of our actions in ourselves for good and ill they swap bodies and personalities amongst each other, unfortunately since one of the three is distinctly sour tempered and perpetually irritable this has to be strictly regulated and the poor goddess has to be obliged to be herself whether she likes it or not, which naturally results in her being more than normally sour and irritable like a person eating fresh sloes(view spoiler)[ if you haven't tried it, don't.
Following the same pattern, the journey is essentially a way of shaping the character, acquiring the necessary skills and in our case a passage from childhood to adulthood.
Shortly before the end, I feel that I have read another important book that matters even more when I think of how positive effect it can have in shaping the character of children.
Φυσικά σε αυτό το ταξίδι συναντά και ανθρώπους που του δίνουν πολύτιμες συμβουλές και τον βοηθάνε στη διαδρομή του.
Ακολουθώντας το ίδιο μοτίβο το ταξίδι γίνεται ουσιαστικά μία διαδρομή διαμόρφωσης του χαρακτήρα, απόκτησης των απαραίτητων εφοδίων και στην περίπτωσή μας του περάσματος από την παιδική ηλικία στην ενηλικίωση.
He's offered some easy answers, but continues to look & in the process meets some interesting people & learns several crafts.
Best of all, he learns that a simple bit of iron, cloth, or clay pot isn't simple at all.
It's a great lesson & one that I've learned myself.
(I was spinning some alpaca fleece into thread as I listened to this.
The book was a fast, intriguing read, so I'm off to listen to The High King to finish these up.
It's important to the series because it shows Taran really understanding that his identity is based on his ability and accomplishments rather than on position; however, I missed Eilonwy who is barely in it and I found myself not becoming attached to the new characters as much.
The story reads more like a folktale with clear morals or lessons Taran learns from his mentors.
He is no longer ashamed and gains wisdom to be content with his station in life.While learning skilled crafts, Taran learns what it means to fail and not be good at something because he doesn't have a passion for it.
I love these as audiobooks. Even though it took me several days to finish it, I loved the themes in this book the most. This series is so unique and much different than other fantasy novels I've encountered. Definitely recommend.
Taran simply wants to know where he came from, and so he sets off from Caer Dallben with only Gurgi and his faithful steed Melynlass to accompany him and no idea of where to start looking for the secrets to his heritage.
He knows deep down that he very well might find he is a person of no consequence, but a very large part of him does in fact expect to find out he's some secret prince, or the long lost son of lord.As Taran doesn't know where to start looking, he goes to the only people in Prydain who might be able to point him in the right direction: the enchantresses Orddu, Orwen, and Orgach.
Alexander introduces us to some of his most nuanced, interesting characters yet, such as Craddoc; and Taran himself grows a great deal.
The book does not get bogged down anywhere, and Alexander puts Taran through quite a few trials, to help in grow and keep us, as readers, entertained.
Bumbling won't do when it comes down to it, so Taran had to grow up and become effective, as did many characters; he had to start forming relationships from which he might command loyalty; we have to get a sense of the full landscape of Prydain, so as to understand how the various factions and geography will affect the war.
That is some deep stuff. In the fourth book of Prydain Chronicles Taran realizes that he loves Princess Eilowny (who is again missing from the narrative) and goes on a journey of self-discovery. He hopes to be of noble birth, so he can propose marriage to the princess, thinking that an assistant pig-keeper would not be worthy of her hand. What he gets though is a lesson in self-worth, societal prejudices, and misconceptions about human nature. Can facilitate some great philosophical discussions with your kid.
Taran and his friends barely escaped unscathed.After a break from his quest during which he learned about the value of family, Taran finally makes it to the Free Commots, where he picks up various skills, faces who he is, and accepts his identity.My thoughts: (spoilers)This one was okay.
I often view them as Alexander placing himself in the story to help Taran along but in this installment, Taran has only the wisdom he has gained to guide him along.For the majority of the quest, Taran is accompanied by only Gurgi.
This series of five books follows a young man called Taran who really wants to be a hero.
He learns it the hard way through his adventures in the fantasy land of kings, queens, princes, and princesses called Prydain where he encounters things both wondrous and terrible.
Like in his previous adventures, Taran would learn a lot of lessons.
I think many people are like Taran, dreaming of heroism and glory, but easily forget that there is much greatness and wisdom in the people they see everyday.
They will have a lot of fun reading them but they will, like Taran, also learn a lot as well.
And so, Taran and Gurgi wander through the land, meeting people and having adventures.Truth be told, I thought that this was the weakest book in the Chronicles of Prydain series so far.
Taran starts to learn about the true value of things and he starts to see that his original goal of hoping for noble blood isn’t what he thought he was.
And as he wanders through the land and tries his hand at different skills, he also learns more about who he isn’t - an important lesson for everyone as they try to figure out who they are.For me, the character that really shone in this book (even more than Taran) was Gurgi.
I loved these when I was a kid and it turns out I kinda love them now too. I’m maybe going to write a review for someone, if not I’ll post something longer here.
“True allegiance is only given willingly.” Having discovered his feelings for the Princess Eilonwy, Taran, now more than ever, longs to know his parentage. Travelling through all corners of Prydain, his quest leads him to farmers and kings - yet from none can he learn who he truly is. Unlike the previous instalments, Taran Wanderer does not focus on any particular evil that must be met. In a way, Taran is his own enemy as he, almost aimlessly, travels from place to place. It gives the book a mo
Travelling through all corners of Prydain, his quest leads him to farmers and kings - yet from none can he learn who he truly is.
It gives the book a more quiet nature and has an almost melancholic feeling to it.Although a more calm book, when it comes down to it, Taran faces some fierce battles that are shown in more detail than in any of the previous books.
For the most of it, only Gurgi accompanies Taran throughout the quest.
This book, more than any of the others, showed how loyal he truly is - Taran's journey would have been a lonely one without him.
While half of the story is adventure in the face of grave danger like in the other books, the other half of the story is more human and real.Taran is now old enough to realize that it's OK to admit that he likes a girl.
Much of this book's story, then, is Taran's quest to discover who his parents were, and to find out who he is now.Unlike other fantasy stories, however, the search isn't straightforward and there's no cryptic prophecy to guide the characters.
I only wish that in fourth grade I had realized that Taran's lessons would have been just as valuable for me--this would be a good book for adults to read along with children and discuss afterward.
Their discussion is mildly interesting but Taran leaves without further complication, which is entirely unlike the three O's.
Later he encounters an enchanter who is powerful enough for his defeat to be the entire focus of the book, but again his subplot is resolved in one scene.
I must admit, though, I liked Taran producing an ugly sword whose mettle was actually stronger than his previous weapon.Taran's experience at the Mirror of Llunet is similarly over too quickly without the essential fulfillment of the book's promise, leaving the reader unfulfilled.
This book was written quickly to bridge the time between the third and fifth books, and I think it shows.
This is the moment where Taran, and this series, grows up.
Taran Wanderer is a wondrous book, and I enjoyed it immensely.
As the title suggests, Taran (and subsequently the reader) are wandering for the majority of the story.
This is also by far the darkest book yet in the series.After the events in The Castle of Llyr, Taran now knows two things: 1) He is in love with Princess Eilonwy, and 2) He can only marry her if he is nobly born.
Taran has many adventures throughout this book, but the most captivating aspect of it for me was how deftly Lloyd Alexander handles Taran's pursuit to discover himself.
Taran meets greedy cantrev lords, aids a generous king, is taken captive by a mad wizard, and apprentices himself to a smith, a weaver, and a potter.In some ways, this is the weakest of the books, being a series of only occasionally suspenseful events, with little in the way on conflict or climax, and that being of the very simplistic kind.
But while Alexander is cramming the Archetypical Quest to Become a Man into a slim children’s volume, his always very fine writing carries the book along, and the inner growth of Taran is a fine lesson for children and young adults, who are on the same quest.
A lot of series have a book like this, where the main character is literally just wondering around the whole time.
And next I go to this place, where this happens." (Kind of like "Voyage of the Dawn Treader" - my least favorite "Narnia" book...) It really isn't relevant to the plot of the series, but I guess is treated as sort of a coming-of-age time in Taran's life, his struggle to find out who he is.
Maybe I should be a potter..." Really the only purpose it serves is to introduce a few new characters, so they can reference them in the next book.
I really liked this book.
It, along with The Black Cauldron, is probably my favorite in the series so far.Taran Wanderer focuses entirely on Taran as he struggles to find out where he comes from and who his parents are.
It is uniquely written, as each chapter covers (more or less) one leg of his journey, as he confronts some problem, learns from it, and continues his journey.
This is one of those books written for children but resonating for adults: the little book of Prydaini parables, full of teachings on finding yourself and growing up well. As a child, I found it frustrating. As an adult, I marvel at it (altho the gloss here is very thin; I’d rather it felt less like a collection of retold myths). It’s an odd lull in the usually rambunctious adventures of an assistant pig keeper, but one that leaves a tear in my eye.
This was far better than the last few Prydain books, even though towards the end the chapters at times felt like self-contained short stories. It won't be long before I read the concluding book again...
Excellent book. Taran decides he must learn who he is and where he comes from. It's like Buddy the Elf meets community college general education. Except even more awesome, more serious, and less sugary.
A quick, mostly exciting read. It's not my favorite in the series mostly due to the lack of all my favorite characters, but Alexander's writing is still good and the story is enjoyable.
Another wonderful Prydain tale, learning life's lessons and choices. Another six years have passed, this time I listened to the Audible version. Utterly enjoyable Taran reaches manhood.
