https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1152397.Cecily_Parsley_s_Nursery_Rhymes
Especially as it's not one that was ever included racks of personalised pens, t-shirts or mugs.
As for this, with cynical adult eyes, although I love the illustrations, the words of the title rhyme are open to many interpretations, not all of them delightful:Cecily Parsley lived in a pen,And brewed good ale for gentlemen;Gentlemen came every day,Till Cecily Parsley ran away.The other rhymes include Potter originals as well as traditional ones, like Three Blind Mice, and Goosey Goosey Gander.
There's also this clever but poignant riddle:Ninny nanny netticoat,In a white petticoat,With a red nose,The longer she stands,The shorter she grows.If you can't figure it out, see the illustration HERE.
full of whimsy and nonsense but the good kind
We have a little garden,A garden of our own,And every day we water thereThe seeds that we have sown.When the hummers start humming and the jays start squawking, and the woodies start pecking and the raptors start hawking, I take out my little book of Beatrix Potter verses because spring is in full blossom.
The 1983 Ariel publication is my favorite because Allen Atkinson did the illustrations with such love, you believe the little baby bunnies on the cover really put on their jammies for bedtime storytelling.
Atkinson left us too soon, and I rejoice when I find one of his books.We love our little garden,And tend it with such care,You will not find a faded leafOr blighted blossom there.Book Season = Spring (de-weed)
Very colorful and cute illustrations
This is another story on several nursery rhymes as the title implies. Beautiful art work with simple little rhymes. Both kids enjoyed this quick story.
This gets an automatic five stars for the inclusion of guinea pigs!
Didn't seem as original as the first round of rhymes, all derivative. Also, uneven drawing style, some amazing, some too muddy. Also, why can't a Nursery Rhyme book have an overall arc? Just wondering...
With this one, now I've read everything written by Beatrix Potter, I think. I've been meaning to read her stories since I was a kid, and I'm glad I could do it, even if it was years later. ^^
Cecily the rabbit lived in a pen where she brewed good ale for the gentlemen, until she ran away. The three blind mice got their tails cut off by the farmers wife. I thought this book was good because there were rhymes I've never even read myself! It is neat to go read older books for children. There were a lot of rhymes for kids in this book.
Such a classic and just brings childhood memories back again.
Another one which doesnt make any sense at all,never read it to your children
Some sweet old traditional nursery rhymes in the book. A few had been used in previous Beatrix Potter stories.
This is a very short book of verse. The rhymes were quite sweet. The illustrations were lovely!
A collection of traditional nursery rhymes are collected and accompanied with the author's iconic drawings. Readers seeking a new presentation of traditional nursery rhymes should be amused.
A wonderful book.
Nice oneWorth reading to little one. Nicely written.my little one enjoyed it. Will read it again. Good for making baby engaged.
"We have a little garden, a garden of our own, and every day we water there the seeds that we have sown."
*horrified*kalo dipikir-pikir ini nursery rhymes serem-serem amat ya.
*merinding* semacam lagunya si kancil yang kalo dicerna juga sama menyeramkannya.
gimana nggak nyeremin coba,Si kancil anak nakalSuka mencuri ketimunAyo lekas ditangkapJangan diberi ampunEmang sih, kadang orang tuh butuh efek jera, tapi kalo sampe jangan diberi ampun apa nggak berlebihan?
lagian kan ada yang namanya kesempatan kedua.
kasihlah orang itu kesempatan untuk membuktikan kalau dia udah jera dan nggak akan berbuat begitu lagi.
Today I reached the end of the journey that was The Tales of Beatrix Potter.
From the first image of two grown rabbit friends, sitting in companionable silence in their local hostelry, each with a pint of beer to paw, one smoking a pipe, the other reading the daily paper (harking back to such ancient times), I knew I would go out on a high.
Beatrix knew how to keep it real, and because of this her stories have reached through time to help us confront the tough times and celebrate the joyful ones.
Sometimes you read not to enjoy the story but the moment.
these nursery rhymes would take hardly ten minutes still you feel joy.
It is a fact that if a children book doesn't make an adult happy then an author needs to revised his work necessarily.
Illustrated books are my weakness, so I enjoyed this kiddo's book with the heart of a kid.
a bit childish but that's the way you learn how to read.
We love our little garden,And tend it with such care,You will not find a faded leafOr blighted blossom there.I Read it into La..La..La..
tone.
I liked this better than Appley Dappley because I recognized several of the rhymes in this book. I wonder, was it Beatrix Potter who wrote "Three Blind Mice" and "This Little Piggy"? That is very awesome if that is the case. I liked the riddle about the candle at the end as well. The illustrations weren't as cute as the other collection of nursery rhymes, though.
This is another of the original books from England that does not have a copyright date in it. It's also another Beatrix Potter book with very short nursery rhymes, the first being about a rabbit. There's one about geese, one about a pig, and one about a cat. The three blind mice tale is in the book, and couple more stories.
A collection of 8 classic nursery rhymes. You'll remember such classics as Goosey, Goosey, Gander; This pig went to market; and Three blind mice.As with most written-down nursery rhymes often don't match exactly with the ones you learnt, after all this book was penned 60 years and 17,000km away from where I learnt them.All this hosted by Cecily Parsley - the microbrewer!
These short nursery rhymes reminded me of the ones that I heard when I was a small child. I didn't know all of them, but the ones that I do know brought back very good memories. I also liked the illustrations, even though they were a bit hard to see on the Kindle.
I really enjoy Beatrix Potter and her books. I think they're so lovely and just beautiful. I would love to have the entire collection so i could read them whenever i just want to have a break from adult books.
Beatrix Potter was a magnificent children's story teller and the books passed down through generations are still loved today
Read as part of The Beatrix Potter Collection: Volume TwoCute, but ultimately disjointed.
The rhymes are a bit ho-hum, but the illustrations are lovely as always. My favourites were the beautifully detailed pictures of guinea pigs tending their garden.
looking for a special treat for your little one's 25th birthday? this is guaranteed to provide them with hours of fun and delight :)
A fun and delightful book from the creative mind of Beatrix Potter.
