https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1200451.West_Side_Story
فباحاول (على قد ما اقدر) اني اتفرج على المسرحيات اللي اقراها لدرجة انى بقيت ابحث اولا عن ما اذا كان فيه لينك لمشاهدتها على المسرح او ، لا ، عشان اقرر اذا ماكنت هاقرأها ام ، لا احيانا !
.. خصوصا لو المسرحية او الفيلم او الأوبرا او العمل الفني عموما صيته كان أعلى من صيت نصها الأدبي المكتوب بل رحت لأبعد من دا و بقيت ابحث عن المسرحيات المعروضة و اللي فيه لينكات لمشاهدتها و المسرحية اللي تعجبني و اقرر مشاهدتها ابدأ في البحث عن نصها الأصلي و قراءته ***** وWest Side Story فيلم كان او نص او مسرحية ...
Easily one of the best musicals of all time!
I was a little surprised at this when I got around to reading it and listening to the music. The book is great, and I had few problems with the pacing, dialogue, or stage directions. However, the music was a little disappointing. There were a few songs that didn't seem to add anything...meaning if you cut them out the story would still be completely understandable. Oftentimes, they weren't great lyrically/musically either. There were a few gems from Sondheim's lyrics but overall I thought this was far from Sondheim's best.
Confession: This play is one of many cultural touchstones I've somehow passed over. I had to read a play for a class and my first choice fell through so I read this one. And it was SO GOOD. I can't even imagine how incredible it would be to see it performed.
Okay. I don't want to talk about the book/musical or whatever you want to call it. It was good. Really. I enjoyed it.But... the movie. I love it :)I remember snapping my fingers through the hallways of my JHS with friends for weeks after watching it. Haha!
I'm still pouting that I wasn't cast as a Jet. To my amusement, a recent NC Shakespeare Festival performance of Romeo & Juliet featured a short-haired young woman playing Mercutio.
The book itself was pretty good.As for the ending and the two main characters,I thought the ending was just bad,and I did not like the two main characters.( On my summer reading list)
Loved this story. Very much like Romeo and Juliet, but with different groups in conflict. Read it in high school because I thought it would be interesting.
West side story is a play that was on broadway and also made into a book and a movie.
This play is about to rivial gangs fighting over a street.
The leader of the Jets (Whites) riff does'nt the leader of the Sharks (Purto ricans) Benardo.
Benardo sister ends up falling in love with Riff's bestfriend Tony which is also a Jet and this causes more problems in the gang.
Benardo ends up killing Riff and Tony kills Benardo for revenge and Chino a Skark kills Tony for revenge and at the end both gangs come together because they dont want to see no more killing.
Great companion piece to Romeo and Juliet. Love it. Love the music from the musical as well.
