https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120231.Barefoot_Contessa_Family_Style
- Never read Barefoot Contessa cookbooks on an empty stomach.- I want to be Ina Garten when I grow up.- If I can't be Ina, then I want her to be my next-door neighbor.
Visually stimulating and mouth watering!
Ina Garten makes everything seem accessible through her clear instructions.
We have all read those recipes that can inspire fear just through their length.
Sharing food is an act of love and it makes cooking so much more enjoyable when you remind yourself that you are doing it for someone you love, whether or not it is yourself or someone else.
Since Ina firmly believes that hosts/hostesses should not spend their parties chained to the stove, the majority of these dishes can be made in advance so you can spend more time with your friends.
I like Ina's recipes/books a lot, but this book was a bit of a let down if you consider yourself any kind of a cook. Do I really need a recipe for roasted potatoes? Ingredients - Potatoes, salt, pepper and olive oil. Pretty much a no-brainer.But the book does have some great recipes - specifically the Sagaponack Corn Pudding and the Tequila Lime Chicken. both were big winners when I made them.
That is not to say that all their recipes are laden with fat, but that they appreciate sometimes there is just no substitute for flavour.Ina Garten left an unfulfilling government position in the 70’s to purchase a speciality food shop in New York called The Barefoot Contessa.
With successful TV shows, countless recipe books and a massive following, Ina Garten is one of the most popular TV chefs around today.This is her ninth recipe book, and as the subtitle Family Style suggests, the focus here is on cooking for your loved ones.
prep time and maybe 30 min.
cooking time, and, that's for stuff you can make for folks who are coming over to your home.
When I was MUCH younger I got a used copy of the Martha Stewart Entertaining book which had lovely pictures, but NONE of the recipes worked - to an almost comical extent (don't get me started on the honey and currey dip or the shrimp stuck into a cabbage - ah, mispent youth!).
Martha's book was a true nightmare - lot's of work and no results.
I can't wait to cook more stuff!
Wasn't familiar with Garten until I attended a bridal shower where the food was prepared from her cookbooks - it was so delicious!!
I went out and bought this cookbook!!
Everything I have made has been wonderful; my husband has loved it and I have also taken dishes to functions and people have asked for recipes (so I tell them the same story about going to the bridal shower/etc.)....
Yes, the recipes are pretty basic, but they are very delicious and you can also be creative with them and tweak them in small ways to mix it up!
The recipes in this book are simple, looking over the table of contents did make me roll my eyes. Do I need a recipe for roasted asparagus? Green salad? But they still have the Ina Garten touches and simple doesn't mean not tasty. The green salad recipe, for example, is all about the vinaigrette. The roasted asparagus tastes amazing. It's a good book to give to new cooks, but I also like it for when I want dinner fast.
Her cookbooks are a big must-have in our family. We do, however, call it 'Would you like some fatty-fat with your fatty-fat?' cookbook. Cream, half-and-half, cheese, butter all make repeat performances in many of the dishes. But in the end, does anything with those ingredients ever suck?Favorites: The Turkey Lasagna, Sagaponack Corn Pudding and the Parmesan Chicken.
It reminds me that eating together with the people you love is something to be done often!
Love a cookbook with tons of photos. Although Ina's presentation is undoubtedly better than mine, the hubby thinks I am a master chef while cooking her recipes. Love love the parmesean chicken.
Good, basic recipes for beginners, plus a bit of advice for hostesses.We don't agree theologically or philosophically, but the lady knows a thing or two about good food*.*Except for putting tomatoes on top of mac & cheese. That's weird.
I love this cookbook! The recipes are classics. I think this is a great cookbook for someone just starting out that doesn't quite have a handle on cooking for the whole family or a dinner party.
Just love her cooking I learn a lot from her recipes
This was my first Ina cookbook and it is fabulous! I've made practically everything in this book and it's great!!!
Kin
Lots of yummy recipes in this book. Tried the sour cream banana pancakes and they were good!
Read this book if you want be master chef.
this book is goos for the recipes.

I've tried a number of recipes from this cookbook and all of them have turned out well. Ina Garten does a really good job of giving easy to follow, complete instructions for her recipes. She does however have an over developed fondness for onions and fennel, and she doesn't always consider the price of her ingredients (large amounts of saffron-the most expensive spice there is, a ridiculous number of oranges used in the pound cake), but overall a very good cookbook. The chicken stew with biscuits is by far my favorite.
I adore all her cookbooks, but this one is my least favourite, I suppose I was spoiled with the first 2 I had and was lloking for a bit more original ideas. Although once again all her recipes are easy and delicious. Her books are so appealing she has found the wonderful balance of clarity and clearness in her recipes and photos.When you begin reading this book you allost feel like jumping up to organise a family luncheon!The only frustrating thing is the measurements in US no metric!
My mother-in-law and sister-in-law love these cookbooks. I had looked through them years ago, but recently read this one to find out what was in it that I remembered. I love her way of writing about food, and the recipes are fairly simple and ones everyone would like. There were only a few things that I thought I would never make. But, after I had looked at every single recipe, I was really happy with this cookbook.
I laugh at Ina and make fun of her Madagascar vanilla beans, but it comes from a place of affection, truly. I love her recipes and her style - elegant without being fussy. This cookbook is one of the only ones we've ever used consistently at our house. The chive biscuits are my personal favorite, and the family favorite is probably the Flag Cake, which we've made for every 4th of July I can remember. I just wish I could have even a little of her unruffled calmness in the kitchen.
Love her! This was the first 'ina' book I came upon, and her style was exactly what I had been looking for----exceptional food, prepared lovingly and with great karma. She is a kindrea spirit----my family lovingly refers to her as the contessa!try the banana sour cream pancakes and the lasagna with turkey sausage. yum!
I love her recipe books for the simple fruit and veggie recipes and the delicious desserts. I feel like her main dish recipes are not always my taste. I am really picky with what I think a cookbook should look like. I think she got it right. Each recipe has a picture, big fonts, simple and not too much on the page to distract my eyes. She gives great tips and explanations.
I cannot live without this book. I love its simplicity yet you can blow people's tastebuds away when you show up for a potluck, the dinnertable, or even the high-end catering jobs (if you're so inclined.) But her recipes are scrumptous and classy. I love how she gives you options to foods and gives you menu ideas.
I am a big Ina Garten fan - love her books and her show. The recipes in this book are good, basic recipes that do not fail but she is rather liberal with the high-fat ingredients. I am all for enjoying food but I often slim her recipes down (example: I use evaporated milk instead of half & half) to be able to enjoy them a little more often.
I haven't watched any of her shows or read any of her other cookbooks, and I can't say I'm thrilled with this one. I've made a dozen or so recipes in the past year, and the only one I've made more than once is the buffalo chicken wings. The recipes are a little too bland for me and don't seem particularly unique.
parmesan chicken was great, avoid the chicken stew with biscuits (was disappointing and tasted very off), lasagna with turkey sausage is one of my favorite recipes that i make time and time again, roasted winter veggies, string beans and shallots, zucchini with parmesan, & rum raisin rice pudding (makes a ton but its delicious, as it should be with 5 cups of cream and boose)
I'm really glad that I rec'd this as a CHristmas present (thanks Sarah). I haven't tried too many recipes yet, but everytime I look at this book I 'hear' her voice, which is so soothing - it says 'comfort food' everytime.
