https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359.The_Salmon_of_Doubt
And as I turned the last page and stared helplessly at the blank sheet before me, and realized that I had just read the last "book" Adams would ever "publish," I was overcome with a sadness so deep and painful that I've never yet been able to even pull Salmon...
Even now, five years after the only time I managed to read Salmon..., and six years after Adams' death, I'm too close.Why, then, do I give this book five stars?How could I not?
and this is all DESPITE the fact that Mr. DNA may or may not have had a functional nose with which to sneeze out those humorous one-liners.So am I rating this entirely based on a man's ability to be clear, funny, horribly learned, and dead?Yes, but it's gotta be more than that, and indeed it is.
I waited sixteen-and-a-half years to read this and I just about managed to get through it without bawling my eyes out.
Sure, Roald Dahl had given me a few chuckles, but it wasn't until I read Hitchhikers for the first time that I realised a book could make me laugh so much I nearly wet myself.As such, this was a bittersweet experience.
Reading Adams' unpublished work, including several chapters of a new but never to be finished Dirk Gently novel, gave a new definition to laughing through one's tears.
I'm glad I read it but it's going to take a while to recover.
The first two parts are filled with snippets, random thoughts DA wrote down about tea and cookies and computers and other stuff, interviews for various magazines and newspapers he did, as well as speeches he gave for all sorts of occasions.For example, did you know how much Douglas Adams got involved with environmentalism?
Well, we exchanged meaningful looks, then he walked away, and I breathed a sigh of relief and sat back.A moment or two later the train was coming in, so I tossed back the rest of my coffee, stood up, picked up the newspaper, and underneath the newspaper were my cookies.
I told him that I personally believe in a personal God, but for purposes of discussion, we should consider whether there really was no rational need for the existence of God. I asserted that, contrary to Adams’ hero Richard Dawkins for whom I expressed admiration for his science and reservation for his assertions which went beyond the acceptable evidence, the idea of God was more helpful than harmful.Adams was skeptical (duh!) and attempted two analogies which I found interesting.
What a delight to revisit the mind of Douglas Adams.
I like that this is a collection of emails, speeches, one-liners, and rants.
The result is so much better than it sounds like it's going to be: Douglas Adams died, but his buddy knew his password and emptied his Mac onto a CD, the various unfinished writings were lightly edited and printed as this.
But gosh, am I ever glad that they did, because there's some exceptional writing in here, hilARious, as he always was, and glitteringly insightful.
A collection of essays, speeches, ramblings unearthed on his hard drive(s), one short story culled from a BBC annual, and the titular unfinished Dirk Gently novel.
The essays are breezy and witty, often lacking focus when discussing science and technology, but comprise (realistically) the most readable of his non-fiction output.
There are some readers, yours included, who feel Adams spent himself on the Hitchhiker’s books: although the Dirk Gentlys were absurdist romps sutured with awesome logic, they didn’t hang together as novels.
But all in all, nobody who loves Adams could resist reading this book, despite snoozing through the travel/nature pieces to get to the stuff they want.
A kind of poor book which just happens to be filled with awesome.
I'd really like a well-organized and indexed collection of all of Douglas Adams' short writings.
Salmon isn't that collection; the writings are just tossed into poorly-defined buckets with no real TOC to speak of (and let us not speak of indexes), and there's no real way to tell what's missing or what's even important.
There's some occasional interesting serendipity to be had, but eh.On the other hand, it's Douglas Adams, bringer of joy and wry, good-natured English despair, and even inferior collections of his work are crucial.
It's got some great incite into the man who could make a pot of petunias think to itself, 'Not again.' A large part of my enjoyment was finding out about Adams as a person, and in turn finding out that I've got some stuff in common with him.
I didn't), and, well I can't think of another one right now, but we're like peas in a pod.
Damn it, I miss him.
As much as you can miss someone you never met anyway, which believe me is a LOT.
I went into this thinking I was getting a 300 pg Dirk Gently story... guess I should have read some reviews of it first... cuz that is noty what this book was mostly. It was interesting but just not what I was hoping for.
This partially posthumous volume consists of a collection of magazine articles, newspaper columns, interviews and such like, along with one short story (about a young Zaphod)originally published in the Utterly Utterly Merry Comic Relief Christmas Book...a copy of which I own...and the (very) incomplete conflated text of three versions of the third Dirk Gently's novel.
Personally, I think a 3rd Gently's would have been much more fun than a 6th 'Hikers'.
The Long Dark Tea-time of the Soul is my favourite Adams novel and The Salmon of Doubt looked to be very much in a similar vein, structurally and stylistically.
This is a delightful and maddening book.
This collection of essays, columns, speech transcripts and random musings was culled from Adams' computers after his tragic death at the age of 49.
Though Adams was an avowed atheist, the frustration I felt at having this tale end so abruptly was enough to make me wish he's wrong about the afterlife and hope some trance channel will track him down in the ethers so we can all find out just who was sending Mr. Gently those wire transfers and what, exactly, the rhinoceros was doing on the highway to Santa Fe.
I don’t want to finish this book.I really don’t.If I finish this book that means I’ll have finished the last work of Douglas Adams.
Now, back to the book.Adams’ friend and fan, Stephen Fry, introduces The Salmon of Doubt.
Since I can’t actually for you to slowly wander to this section in the book, please continue to read it here!You will need to know the difference between Friday and a fried egg.
Unquestionably, The Salmon of Doubt is for the fans of Douglas Adams.
If you want a few more Adamisms before you have to acknowledge (again!) that the man is gone, you can even divide this book up into each section and chapter.
So far I've only read The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy but I do intend to read the other four books of the trilogy.
Then, when I was scanning through articles and stories by and about DNA (= Douglas Noel Adams), I came across this collection of essays, interviews, speeches and the partly written "The Salmon of Doubt".
I think it's a great idea that those remaining snippets on DNA's computer have been put together as a sort of memoire.I have laughed so hard my stomach still hurts and it was a real joy!
So get your towels ready ...
Very very fascinating but also very very sad. I think some of Adams' best writing is found within this work. Sadly, the publication of this book meant that there would be no more new Douglas Adams books.
I resisted reading this for a long time because I was under the misapprehension that it was merely a presentation of the sections of the Dirk Gently novel Adams was working on until his untimely death in 2001.
Adams didn't yet know where he was going with it, and in fact, he was apparently thinking of changing it from a Dirk Gently novel to one set in the Hitchhiker's universe.
It's really an eye-opening look at the wide-ranging intellect and knowledge that underlies the seeming frivolity and true hilarity of his books.
Potrei scrivere un fiume di parole su quanto apprezzi l'Adams scrittore e l'uomo, quanto condivida le sue idee (a parte sulla Apple, ma se vedesse cosa è diventata credo si schiferebbe anche lui)e su quanto la sua scomparsa mi rattristi molto più di quanto sarebbe lecito aspettarsi.
Ma non è il caso.Questo libro raccoglie tante interviste, aneddoti ed idee che raccontano molto su chi era Adams; quindi se avete apprezzato i suoi libri e desiderate scoprire qualcosa su di lui è la lettura giusta.Inoltre contiene la prima bozza incompiuta del nuovo romanzo di Dirk Gently..
"Where do you get the ideas for your books?- I tell myself I cannot have another cup of coffee till I've thought of an idea."This book is such a beautiful tribute to the late Douglas Adams. The pieces in it are laugh out loud funny, deeply meaningful, and often poignant. Surely I am not the only person that cried reading "Sunset at Blandings"; the feelings that Douglas felt at losing one of his favourite authors are so reminiscent of what his fans must feel. This book is absolutely wonderful. Douglas Adams really brings meaning to Life, The Universe and Everything.
While reading this, I've had one thought running in my head the whole way through: I wish I could've met Douglas Adams.Whether he's telling about the time he walked around Africa in a rhino suit for charity, teaching Americans how to make a proper cup of tea or giving a speech about the possibility of an artificial God, Adams was able to make almost anything a pleasure to read.
I'm only taking off points here because the unfinished version of the third Dirk Gently novel given here didn't quite work, but then again Adams knew that too.
Was the estate of Douglas Adams attempting to cash in on whatever they found on his hard drive?
However, considering the fact that he sold over 15 million books while he was alive, his heirs probably aren't short of a quid.
Apart from his unfinished Dirk Gently novel there are short pieces, many non-fiction, along with speeches, interviews, & other items.
All contain Adams' superlative wit & amount to a fitting tribute to a gifted humourist & environmentalist who left us way too soon (at 49).
And they reminded me that it is way too long since I last re-read the Hitch-hikers series.
Vale, Douglas.
It was inevitably at least a little disappointing, but then, this is the price of entry paid at the start, and we understand it explicitly: we will never know the end of this last tale.
Further, we'll never know whether Adams would have kept it in Gently form, or figured out how to transform it into another (final?) Hitchhiker.
The journey through was sometimes a little dull, which for me was a disappointing realization as a fan of DNA's many styles and interests.
Knowing and willingly paying the price might have made it easier when I came to the end.
This is most definitely not "Dirk Gently #3".This is a motley collection of odds and ends found on Douglas Adams' many hard disks after his sudden death.
This whole mess runs to 79 pages.
The spirit of Douglas Adams, clever and funny, shines through.
Still glad I got this in the library and didn't shell out any real money for it though.And by the way, don't believe the subtitle "Hitchhiking the Galaxy One Last Time" either, you get thirteen pages of Zaphod, that's it.
Mais ou menos como se pegassem seu computador e publicassem seus arquivos doc e bloco de notas depois que você morresse, já que foi tão repentino que ninguém soube lidar muito bem com aquilo. Contudo, nesse caso, você é uma das pessoas mais genuinamente engraçadas e queridinhas do mundo. O que é ótimo. Mas ainda assim não sei lidar com um trecho inicial de livro expondo um mistério do qual o final nunca saberemos. Volta, Douglas Adams!
2.5 starsSince you come into this book expecting Douglas Adams, and what you get is only somewhat Douglas Adams, it was a huge let down. The man's writing is very distinct, and while the little bits that are his are good, the other bits aren't.
Despite the undeniable brilliance of his other books, Salmon of Doubt very quietly takes you into the mind of the introspective and thoughtful Adams that must have spent time staring deeply into the unknowable.
And his humor from his blog writings are so casual and flippant that there's no way to not feel awful about how unfunny and unwitty you are.I appreciated this book for the glimpse it gave into Adams' mind, which turned out to be a minutely aware and self-searching one about technology, about himself, about life, the universe, and everything.
Even though this is a bit of a mishmash of collected notes, interviews, and rough drafts pulled from Adams’s beloved Mac computers, it was sooo good to hear his voice again.
Adams’s writing is so uniquely him - it doesn’t matter if he’s writing something as mundane as a shopping list, he imbues life and humor into it and it becomes suddenly clearly and beautifully connected to the world.
There’s a reason that he’s known for writing about life, the universe, and everything.
It was an incredibly sad day when we lost him at the young age of 49 - he’s one of my all-time favorite authors and could have created so much more.
The Salmon of Doubt is a hard book to categorize.
It contains various items from Douglas Adam's hard drive downloaded after his death, along with some items from other sources, and his half finished novel The Salmon of Doubt.
It was compiled and published after his death.
The book as a whole is an interesting look into the mind of a man who, although remembered for The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, is so much more.
If you want to truly know all the facets of his mind, this is the book to read.
Highly recommended for any Douglas Adams fan!
First read shortly after publication, I vaguely remember being disappointed that there was so little Dirk Gently there. Upon rereading, I have the same disappointment.Contains some nice bits and bobs published elsewhere, from reviews to anecdotes, and 10 chapters of what would likely have coalesced into a third Dirk Gently novel. Like earlier installments, it starts as individual unrelated fragments, unlike those, we never get to see the whole.
Did not realize that this was the incomplete book Adams was working on at his sudden death. An interesting read - the majority of the book is interviews with Adams, thoughts by his friends and bits and pieces of his writing. The actual Salmon of Doubt part is only about 100 pages. I was glad to have once last glance of Dirk but as is usually the case with unfinished works - wished it was longer...
"La scienza ha perso un amico, la letteratura ha perso grande autore, i gorilla di montagna e i rinoceronti neri hanno perso un coraggioso difensore, Apple ha perso il suo più eloquente apologeta. E io ho perso un insostituibile compagno intellettuale e un degli uomini più buoni e spiritosi che abbia conosciuto in vita mia." Richard DawkinsD.N.A manchi e mancherai sempre ❤❤
"La scienza ha perso un amico, la letteratura ha perso grande autore, i gorilla di montagna e i rinoceronti neri hanno perso un coraggioso difensore, Apple ha perso il suo più eloquente apologeta. E io ho perso un insostituibile compagno intellettuale e un degli uomini più buoni e spiritosi che abbia conosciuto in vita mia." Richard DawkinsD.N.A manchi e mancherai sempre ❤️❤️
