https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125441.An_Autobiography
Angela Davis experienced more in the first 26 or so years of her life than most people do, and in this autobiography Davis talks about her upbringing in the racist South, her membership in the Communist Party and racism in the prison and court systems.
I always think I’ve read enough books on these topics to be immune from shock but I’m always proven wrong.Davis’ writing was very clear and poetic at times.
When we have people saying that diversity= white genocide, it’s obvious there’s work still to be done.“Nothing in the world made me angrier than inaction, than silence.
Icon! self-liberation,courageous,intellectual,Champion of the BPP movement...'Either you respect the life,struggles and contributions of Freedom Fighter of Angela Davis or you don't'...a must read (paperback!)
En realidad esto es un 4,5 porque pocas veces una biografía me ha parecido tan extraordinaria y me ha tenido enganchada de esta manera.
Icon! self-liberation,courageous,intellectual,Champion of BPP movement..'Either you respect the life,struggles and contributions of Freedom Fighter of Angela D or you don't'....this is a must read (paperback!)
I went with a boyfriend to visit his sister in Boulder to go skiing...
I read it in one day.
I had never heard of Angela, nor much on the Black Panthers aside from what they touch upon in history classes.
The book is well-written and reads like fiction.
I have since studied her in depth for a Women in American History class, and am anxiously awaiting this upcoming February when she will be giving a talk at my university.
This is a must-read for anyone interested in social justice, for all races, for women, for all classes.
"SISTER, YOU ARE WELCOME HERE."
People of color are getting murdered by police, prisoners are still tortured in jail, and the prison population is WAY more low-income African Americans than other demographics.Four stars because it does present a simplified perspective.
Important as that perspective is, it's not the only one.
She goes through great pains to repeat the mantra that she couldn't get too upset about her position, even when she was up to her books got drowned by shit overflowing from a prison toilet, because other brothers and sisters have it worse.
That's an extraordinarily strong position to take!
Angela Davis was a committed revolutionary without apology.
She is forever associated with the Black Panthers and the effort to vindicate the Soledad Brothers.
She was eventually acquitted by an all-white jury and went on to be a major figure in the American Communist party including being a candidate for VP on their ballot.
For those that wish to understand the confusing world of the Black Power movement as well as the Communist Party in America, this is a well-written and fascinating auto portrait of one of that period's more enigmatic and powerful figures.
I can't begin to express how much this book moved me.
All I really knew about Ms Davis was her Afro and that she fought for political and economic fairness for black people.
This book has enlightened me to a very inspiring woman.
I am somewhat ashamed that it took me until the age of 44 to read this book but I am so glad I finally did.
Never knew she was a communist until this book.
Never knew she fought for mor than just black people until I read this book.
She is definitely an inspiration.

My admiration for this woman is infinite.. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2BIZ...There is in Davis' autobiography an abundance of brilliant, poignant, provocative and witty expressions, analogies and metaphors in every page. Here is one funny sociological observation of so many others: "Some years back, Black visitors to Birmingham had all of three post cards from which to choose if they wanted a souvenir of the Black section of the city. Sixteenth Street Baptist Church. Parker High School. A.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2BIZ...There is in Davis' autobiography an abundance of brilliant, poignant, provocative and witty expressions, analogies and metaphors in every page.
Perhaps the white people who made the photographs and retouched them in bright reds and yellows had decided that our lives could be summarized by church, school and funerals.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss65g...
Good enough that I--though I know the results very, very well--was still tense during courtroom scenes and on the edge of my seat when the verdict was rendered. Most people know Angela Davis's story, but not nearly enough people read what she has written over the years.
Powerful beyond words. This autobiography is a call to action.
Racism, in the first place, is a weapon used by the wealthy to increase the profits they bring in -- by paying Black workers less for their work… [R]acism confuses white workers, who often forget that they are being exploited by a boss and instead vent their frustrations on people of color" (61-2).
When white people are indiscriminately viewed as the enemy, it is virtually impossible to develop a political solution" (150).
Una ragazza eccezionale 💘
Lots of notes to share once I work through them.February 2015, when I initially added the book to my TBR: I was nearing the end of Brown Girl Dreaming as I got to work this morning, with Jacqueline Woodson talking about Angela Davis and me thinking how I'd like to learn more about her—then I got to my desk, pulled up Goodreads, and saw her autobiography recommended for me because I am also reading In the Frame, by Helen Mirren.
A really inspiring account of Angela Davis' philosophical and political evolution into a revolutionary, militant Black Panther.
Davis is one of the few activists that has successfully managed to balance her commitment to the overlapping causes of anti-racism, feminism, and communism and hearing the full story of how she blossomed into an American hero can be very thrilling.
I remember have a strong urge to give my life to the cause immediately after reading it.
Her life encourages me to believe that the distance between the academy and real-world political action might not be as wide as it often seems.
When I started reading this autobiography I had to stop a moment and think about the ages Davis was 

What an amazing read. Davis touches on all of the "shelves" I've mentioned. It is an incredible look at her development as a young person into a militant philosopher and Black liberationist. Sickening, insightful, raging, transformative--her autobio captures so much. I highly recommend reading this.
Despite our radical differences in race, age,and sexual preference, Davis' account of her ongoing struggle to juggle theoretical convictions and academic passions with activist ones gave me great insight into my own. A must-read for anyone who loves to read and study but also conceives of activism as something that doesn't begin and end with an online petition.
Angela's analysis of the simplest things (especially aspects of the American legal and prison systems) is incisive and enlightening .
This is a small detail as it relates to the book, but a huge and disorienting blind spot in the thinking of such an intelligent and observant person.Nevertheless, Davis is brilliant at parsing the racism and authoritarianism that many white Americans are oblivious to, especially as they pertain to issues of law and order, the control of Black bodies and minds, and the semiotics of jails and prisons.
I dare to hope that she wouldn't mind that we named our most intelligent hen Angela Y.
This book fundamentally changed me as a communist, as a Brazilian mixed race black person, and as a human being.
Her commitment to political organization and revolution is entirely selfless, always looking to connect even the most tragic of personal events to the larger problem of violent state repression of African American, Latino, Asian, and poor white people who struggle simply to exist.
This is one of my all time personal favorite books for its beautiful prose, Davis' dedication and courage, and the fundamentally vital contributions to the history of Black activism and communism in the United States.
The Autobiography of Angela Davis is an absolute MUST READ for every single human being on earth.
This book blew me away and opened my eyes- peeling away more layers of my ignorance and exposing my privilege.
It's not just a book.
It left me with a renewed conviction to join the fight for absolute freedom of people who are oppressed, with no better example to go by.
It is terribly sad to read of the accounts of police killing black people in 1970, especially in that it sounds hauntingly familiar about what is happening now in 2016.
Her unflagging spirit and selfless conviction to fight for freedom for all oppressed people is astonishing.
WM1: La citazione è d'obbligo: «Guardo le mie povere cose: / una foto di Angela Davis / muore lentamente sul muro / e a me di lei / non me n'è fregato niente mai».
Francesco De Gregori, Informazioni di Vincent, 1974.
Stesso anno in cui, negli USA, la Bantam Books pubblica Angela Davis: An Autobiography.
Se si parla di accoglienza, De Gregori non stende certo il tappeto rosso all'edizione italiana (Garzanti, 1975).
In realtà il cantautore non ce l'ha con Davis, ma ricorre alla sua icona - sovraesposta, inflazionata - per render conto di una distanza, un periodo di smarrimento e alienazione.
An important historical record of life and times 1940-1974 Black American History.
It was an intense but very gratifying book to read.
I recommend this very inspiring and courageous account of this period in her life where the gauntlet was thrown down; and how she won an amazing victory for Women, as well as for recognition of Black repression and the interconnections of a legacy we still see in Black American society today.
It is a must read to complete the picture of the times.

I highly recommend reading this book. The backdrop of this book is the idea of revolution, the holding fast to your convictions and the struggle to live and thrive within systems designed to work against your survival...all relevant themes for meditation and reflection today. I appreciate the way she does not "perform" herself as the mythical "strong black woman" character, instead she delivers an honest, authentic snapshot of how her convictions drive her to show up and work for progress, however and wherever that is. You should read this book.
Angela Davis writes a very honest and interesting autobiography of the now first half of her life. The book is beyond autobiography of an individual and provides accounts of social movements of Davis' time. Davis provides powerful critiques on the racist, classist, sexist capitalist state and prison system. I enjoyed most the descriptions of internal dynamics in the movements of which Davis was a part and of other less prominent people - cell block mates, those doing necessary "grunt" work, etc. - involved in political struggles.
Starts off with Davis eluding the law when on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted List and moves along swiftly. The middle section goes back to her childhood and is more of a memoir. I found this interesting except when she got into a lot of detail about in-fighting amongst two Black Panther organizations and other progressive groups. As a Southerner, I was surprised to see how much police brutality was perpetrated against Blacks in California. The books ends up with her trial and I liked reading about the testimony and how the prosecution really had no evidence.
Fantastic - having grown up in LA during the Civil Rights movement, I really appreciated this insider's view of what was going on in Watts (and America in general) during this turbulent time. In those days, the things you heard on the news on mainstream television reflected a strong bias against any kind of revolutionary activity. Angela is one of my all-time heroes - and I don't really have heroes...
