https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251956.The_Raider
But re-reading any book from that magnificent backlist always feels like stepping back into the warm embrace of a cherished aunt.
What matters is the book is a damn good time and an enjoyable way to pass four or five hours.Characters are an aspect of craft where Jude has always excelled.
I’ve never read another romance with this sort of setting but, in a genre saturated to the dripping point with Regency and Victorian novels, I found it kind of refreshing to read one taking place during a point in American History.Deveraux is famous for her almost obsessive research.
The worst Heroine I have yet had the misfortune to meet...Usually, Im on the 'meh ,nothing to do so I'll just read this, with Jude Dev:..But this was just...Ughh!!There is strong, and then there is mean and bitchy, and not to forget, just shallow and unkind.
(view spoiler)[ Jessica's problems with the Alex weren't personality clashes because for the most part he was being sensible while she was acting like a shrew and basically like a nincompoop..
No, her problems with Alex were all about his clothes and the fact that he is fat!!.
Jude Deveraux was the only historical romance author I'd ever read until this year, when I was recommended Lisa Kleypas and Judith McNaught.All I know is that I get wrapped up in the ridiculous situations that occur in these books.
I've read so many historical romances where the women are like "no!" or "I can't do this" or "I don't want to do this", etc.
If someone wanted to read Jude Deveraux, I think I'd recommend "Remembrance" because I loved that book so much when I was a teenager.

Gosh.
The first half of the book was good.
I laughed and the adventure in it was fun.
But then, for the next 40% of the book, I wanted to chunk it across the room into the wall!
It dragged in parts.
It was horrifically stupid in parts.
I wanted to slap both Jessica and Alex/the Raider.
When a resolution was finally in sight, it improved again and became fun and funny once more.
I won't be running out to read anything else in this series, but I won't discount ever reading another book by Jude Deveraux....not anytime soon though.
Review to come tomorrow? I'm too tired to write one right now.
Much better than the first few. Lots of secrets and lies but quite entertaining.
It’s pretty horrible with bad characterizations, bad pacing, and a feeling of the book not being completely resolved—because I would’ve liked a little more fall out after the reveal—when it ended.
Of course because of this hijenks occur, especially since he’s attracted tot the hot shrew in town.Yeah, it’s about as cringe worthy as it sounds especially since I didn’t understand how the idiotic heroine would think that the hero was the complete moron he portrayed when she touched him and could obviously feel padding not fat—but, but, yes the it’s fiction excuse comes in here.Honestly, it was a neat set up and I do enjoy these tropes but the execution was quite hideous.
He bemoans the way everyone sees him when he's in his Alexander disguise, but tells Jessica that some other woman would make toads look pretty!
He wants someone to see him for something other than the way he looks, but won't even give this woman a chance because she's not a classic beauty.
The book had potential and I probably would have loved it if the main characters hadn't been such thick-headed, judgmental asshats.
Would have much rather read a book about them!).
Sad to see so much potential in a story destroyed by really awful characters.
Eager to do something, Alexander dresses himself as "The Raider" at night, but then, so he won't get caught and hanged, disguises himself as a far peacock during the day.
Jessica Taggert, who knew Alexander from their youths, makes a fool of him when he arrives, ridiculing the man who had hoped his family and neighbors would see through his ridiculous disguise.
Despite this, she gradually becomes friends with Alexande, but it is The Raider she truly desires.
This book was a fun read, bringing in nice historical details that brought the story to life.
I am going to write the same thing for the Taggart and Montgomery series of Jude Deveraux.
And second, and more importantly, I devoured them all!
By the time we got home, I had already called the library and asked them to reserve all of the Taggart and Montgomery series books they had!
I devoured them all and loved them?
Here's the funny thing - I have never read any more Deveraux since that time (not even the last Taggart book or the last two Montgomery books).
I can still vividly remember scenes from the books I read so many years ago!
Found this at the annual library booksale. Can we TALK about what is happening on this cover? Why are they making out next to a poor disembodied horse's head? What's happening with her hair? Are they underwater? In the middle of a typhoon? Is her hair stylist an anime character? I want to read this solely based on the cover!!!Oh! And while trying to find that image, I also found this. I see I am not alone in my delighted confusion. http://smartbitchestrashybooks.com/20...
The story itself was okey, and most of the characters are favorable.
BUT meet Jessica, one of the shallow, pathetic and headstrong(due to dumbness beyond saving) heroine I've ever read about so far.
After finishing Jude Deveraux's Highland velvet I was so annoyed at the stubborn dim-witted heroine I decided to take a break from the 'velvet series' and read something with a more likable main character only to find myself disappointed again!
Jessica was ungrateful, unreasonable and lack half amount of the intelligence her sister harbored and I truly felt sorry Alex decided to marry her and deal with a hotheaded binbo for a wife.
"Old skool" doesn't even begin to describe this book. The rapey sex scenes, the characters that make no sense, the idiotic "plot", the dialogue....... The reason I have it three stars as that it is reasonably well-written despite the above flaws, that as an example of eighties romance it is not particularly offensive or egregious, and that it has a certain nostalgia for me. I'm not sure it would be three stars without it.
The Raider was one of the first romance novels I read and I long considered it a favorite. I read it again and downgraded it from five stars to 3.5. I adore the supporting characters, from Sophy, Nick, Abby and her mother and young Nate. I love the pre-Revolutionary war setting.I did not like the threat of rape, and Alex and Jessica annoyed me.
This has probably been one of the most ridiculous romance novels I have ever read. It even felt like reading some kind of parody... BUT I could not put it down. It did a hell of a job entertaining me.
Final feeling: a shallow woman who belittles and insults her husband and a hero who threatens to rape the woman he loves? No thank you. This could have been a great story. I'm disappointed and disgusted at characters created by Ms. Deveraux.
I just relived my love for this author. My friends, is there a book especially for Eleonor and Nick? Help please!! I cant seem to find it :/
This was a second (third?) read for me of this book.
Alexander Taggert comes home to find his father is an invalid, his sister married to an English customs agent who is abusing his powers and Jessica Taggert, a young woman who has been a thorn in his side since their early years.
Alexander disguises himself as "The Raider", a Zorro/Robin Hood type do gooder who captures the hearts of all the women and immediately becomes a royal pain to the English.
Fast read.
Fun book.
I don't like this story at all. It made no sense to me why Alex hates the raider when in fact he is the Raider and Jessica makes decisions without really thinking about the consequences of her actions leaving them all in trouble. If I were to choose, I'd probably pick Alexander than the Raider because I think he's better when it comes to Jessica's welfare.Sorry but I'd probably not reread this book. This doesn't appeal to me in any way and the story seems abrupt and no matter what I did, I hated them.
Love this book!I love this book so much I re-read it when I'm feeling bad. Jude Deveraux's sense of humor really shines in the dialogue and situations in which the characters find themselves.
oh this one was FUN. Jessica and Alexander. It was hard to believe Jessica would not know Alex as the Raider and Alexander. And I love Eleanor & Nicholas
GoodAnother well written story about how the characters are nicely written about how the characters lived in this time period
Really enjoyed this edition of Montgomery Saga novel. As usual, there is a proud woman and the man she meets and grows to love. Nice read.
Great read with a good mix of romance and humor. Jude Deveraux never lets me down.
it was worth the read....i loved the climax...The arrogant Russian..
Me fascino. Aunque la historia no es original (muy parecida al Zorro) esta muy bien lograda. Te ries muchisimo. Me hubiera gustado que presentaran mas de la historia de Eleanor y Nick.
I want to read again...yhup! Its that fantastic!
they leave, and he is very ill, infection of the gunshot, as they make it back to Warbrooke...Off the boat, with soldiers looking for the Raider, Nick pads, wigs, & dresses Alex in the flashy clothes, and still feverish, Alex zigzags down the dock...
and Jessica and the townspeople, who were hoping this montgomery would save them, starts laughing at him...And Alex decides to keep up the disguise as a way of figuring out what is happening with his brother-in-law & the british...
This book is messed up, but I did laugh my way through it (I don't think the humor was necessarily intentional on the author's part), so 3 stars it is.
He kept referring to The Raider as a separate person, even when talking to his friend that knows about him being the Raider.
And I'm not saying Alex is a great guy, but he was definitely helping her throughout the book, and yet she continually made fun of him, laughed at him, and treated him as sub-human.
Basically, I liked Jessica's younger brother (Nate, I think his name was), her older sister Eleanor, Alex, and Alex's friend Nicholas.
