https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18956.Homicide
Vocabulary words from “The Wire” that you always wondered about like a “yo” and a “redball” are finally clearly defined.In short, Homicide makes me better understand why we loved “The Wire” so much: it is truthful and (as much as a television drama can be) it is real.
No wonder it was heartbreaking to know that Bubbles makes it but Dookie doesn’t.There weren’t any fireworks at the end of Homicide - some of the biggest murder cases of the year are never solved and none of the hardworking detectives are recognized or even given enough overtime.
The reason, I think, is that the main story – the events taking place during that particular year – often aren’t interesting enough to support a narrative; thus, you get a lot of filler (historical context, biographies, etc.)Unfortunately for the dead souls in Homicide, David Simon never came across that problem.
Homicide subtly gains power as it moves forward, so that by the time the final page comes, and you have to leave these detectives behind, you’re grateful that your edition of the book comes with Simon’s 2006 afterword, so you can find out what has happened to these men in the decades following publication.
The police and courts as a system was also one of the themes of The Wire and what Simon shows us in this book is a snapshot of a system formed and functional in some earlier time but which can't realistically cope with the number and type of murders that were occurring in Baltimore during the 1980s.
The job consumes them and as Simon writes, you’re not considered part of the team unless you’ve had at least two divorces or a broken family at home.The madness the Homicide unit is forced to put up with is downright unbelievable.
Or how about a Black Widow case (a woman who marries multiple men, takes out life insurance policies and then murders them to collect on the double indemnity settlement) where the woman in question forces her nephew to marry her after placing a voodoo curse on him?
I'll never be able to remember precisely which interview it was (I've read/watched many) of David Simon's where he criticized his immature (he probably used a different word being a better writer than I) life views at the time of writing 'Homicide'.
He said he came to see people like Bubbles from The Wire in the visceral share/live with them after getting to know Gary from the year of living/writing The Corner.
Maybe Simon knows better what he felt than I could, but no way do I agree that 'Homicide' is a lesser work than The Wire or The Corner because of its perspective.
I'll stop there.So this guy has written the best true crime book and created the best and the third best tv shows of all time (Sopranos being No 2).
Both in their own way make you laugh and cry and howl and bark and make hissing sounds and imitate the well known painting The Scream.SOME QUOTESDetective John Munch : Our day begins when yours ends.*Detective Steve Crosetti: Either it's murder, or this library has a very strict overdue policy.*Det. Tim Bayliss: Fourteen years old...
Det. Frank Pembleton: So if he's what, fifteen, sixteen years old, it makes any more sense?
The chapter in which it is explained how police departments jiggle figures to make themselves look better, to boost their "solved" cases or even to use technical loopholes to decide whether or not a killing is a murder, is your first entry into the cynical world of policing, Baltimore style.1.
Race figures largely in trials, and in policing, it's an always-present factor.The year that Simon details in this book was 1988; in the decades since then, the crime rate (and particularly the homicide rate) in Baltimore has fallen quite a lot.
One most distinct positive is the setting and the city itself - the city and institutions of the Grey Lady Baltimore as a character itself, living as the po-pos and the junkies and the pressmen.How did this all start?David Simon, our author, worked as an intern-chronicler with the BPD for some time.
We see essays like an aside from a documentary - on the Art of Interrogation, on the Autopsy, on Cases, on the Squad, on Death.
Baltimore is out of the Top 5 for Murder Rate as of 2012, with less than two for every three days.
One of my most prized possessions is my first edition hardcover of this book which is signed by many of the detectives mentioned in it.
When the show drifted further away from the realities shown in The Book, it wasn't nearly as good.David Simon spent a year with a shift of Homicide detectives in Baltimore and wrote about it.
As with the TV show, there's dark depressing stuff and then there's the hilarious stuff, usually smack up against each other.
If you enjoy dark humor, enjoyed the TV show, enjoyed The Wire, or like true crime you'll probably like this.
It’s a large tome that enthralled me so much I raced through it in half a week.Like most people these days I’ve come to this after watching ‘The Wire’, (which, of course, is an excellent series).
As in the TV show, Simon manages to fully evoke the world of the Homicide team, with its jokes and tensions and bigger than life characters.
And just like ‘The Wire’ it has an ending which suggests that crime and murder in Baltimore is a beast unstoppable and will just keep destroying all in its path.
This brilliant book is one of the best I've ever read in the true crime genre. Inspiring a hit television program, Homicide introduces readers into the lives of a group of detectives and the things they encounter every day.
I’ll never be able to read another crime drama without benchmarking it to this one. It was real, after all. Simon was a young crime reporter with the Baltimore Sun when he was given permission to tag along with a squad of homicide detectives for a year. With this book he proved himself to be an avid observer, a great storyteller, and an appreciative audience for the science, language and grit of police work. You can see this as a nonfiction prequel to The Wire.
Frigging awesome book about a year following homicide detectives in Baltimore one of America toughest cities. Simon later became more famous for creating the tv shows the Wire and Treme and Homicide: life on the streets. Want to know how life is for a homicide detective? Read this book
Three cheers...I finished David Simon's HOMICIDE last night.
Elated I did, too.
It's a honker (600+ pages).
The storyline tracks a Homicide squad in the Baltimore PD over a year (234 murders in '88).
Two main things held my interest.
First, I liked the parts on the individual homicide detectives.
Their personalities are memorable.
Second, I enjoyed the police procedural (CSI) stuff.
HOMICIDE is well-written and fast-paced.
As expected, lots of male banter (colorful usage of the F-word).
It's usually a thankless job, but they excel at it, day in and day out.
Winner of Edgar and Anthony Awards.
Simon gives us an in-depth look at big city homicide detectives and the way they work.
Then there are the “whodunits” where the real detective work comes in.
If it catches the public eye, it becomes a “red ball” and every angle is worked as pressure mounts from the higher ups.
If there is a “true victim”, an innocent, the detectives take it personally, work hard and stick with it.
If they see the victim as a “yo”, druggy or criminal the detectives still work it to clear it if only to improve their record but if it becomes difficult they let it go in favor of other cases.
Wow. Homicide was written thirty years ago and is perhaps the best non-fiction crime genre book that I have read.
The book spans the entire year in which over 200 homicides were investigated.
However it is three different child homicide cases and the case of the Voodoo woman, a serial killer dubbed the Black Widow, that are covered in vivid detail.The writing is tight, fast paced and seldom wanders off on tangents.
The homicide case closure rate was 75% in Baltimore with about 50% of the murderers either convicted or sent to mental institutions.
In a book about how homicides are investigated, Simon looks at race, class, politics, police, residents, drugs, sexism, racism, and any another ism.
There is plently in this book to chew over.Older ReviewI finally read this.
I loved the NBC series based on this book.
Honestly, if you are debating reading this book, read it.
Simon is fair, and his writing is compelling.
If you watched the series, you will be amazed about how much was used from the book in developing plot lines.
It is a book that I will think about using in class.
644 pages later, I didn't want this to end. Fiction writers, unencumbered by journalistic ethics, can only dream about creating something this compelling and moving. In case there are a few other fans out there who didn't know that Homicide: Life on the Street was based on a nonfiction book, I am noting it here so that you can discover the original Frank Pembleton, John Munch and Al Giardello yourselves. The research was done in 1988, but the action doesn't seem dated. DNA analysis and cell phones came later, but I'm betting good detective work has never been better.
I've just finished this incredible piece of journalism from David Simon. The voice that comes through in his writing feels wonderfully authentic, the people and places and situations so vivid in my mind that I almost came to think of these homicide detectives as friends or people I know.I was thoroughly entertained throughout, only I was also grateful that I had finally finished it. It's heavy work at times but it rewards you for your perseverance. I look forward to reading The Corner in the future. But in the distant future. Perhaps something a little lighter after this.
This is one of my ultimate favorite true crime novels out there.
This book was the basis for the show Homicide that came out in the 90's.
This book goes in places that not many dare to travel in.
It's an eye opening take on what actually happens in a big city police department and the struggles on both sides of the badge.
It also gives insight on what officers have to deal with on the daily, trying to help the neighborhood but overwhelmed and understaffed.
If you're a true crime lover, I recommend you find this book and read it.
Simon obviously cared deeply about these guys doing jobs that were basically guaranteed to destroy their marriages and leave them feeling like the cog in a vast and impersonal machine.But the stories of the detectives are the melody, and the cases they chase are the true rhythm.
I can't help but remember scenes from The Wire like Clay Davis' acquittal and wonder if at least some of the motivation behind his creative work is an effort to present a more realistic depiction of life to TV viewers as a sort of antidote.I can't help but feel like The Corner, his second book, hit me slightly harder, that's surely no slight to the man.
So back in the 1980s reporter David Simon joined the Homicide division of the Baltimore PD as a special Intern, armed with pencil and multiple ring pads, chronicling a year amongst the squads of detectives working there.
The detectives sort each one into two types: dunkers and whodunits.
Dialogue straight off the sheets of all those ring pads, filled with the humour, heart, loyalties, obsessions, individualism, flaws etc of normal professional men doing an absurdly traumatic job as a matter of routine.The version I read was the 2006 edition with the two extra afterwords.
David Simon was on the scene 10 minutes after the call, when Detective Tom Pellegrini, a rookie, took on the vicious rape and murder of 11 year old Latonya Wallace.
David also followed Detective Donald Worden, who was a veteran investigator, Detective Harry Edgerton, a black detective in a mostly white unit, Detective Sergeant Terry McLarney, Squad Supervisor, Detective Donald Waltemeyer, and many others throughout this incredibly detailed account of a year in the worst streets possible.
David Simon writes an incredibly detailed account of everything, from the expressions on the faces of the deceased victims, to the bawdy jokes told amongst the squad.
This book is simply incredible.
Simon as journalist-fly-on-the-wall account of a year inside a Baltimore homicide unit let's readers into a world that ordinarily is off limits to civilians.
I learned more about police and police work in the pages of this book than I could begin to list.
It also corrected many of the misapprehensions that I'd build up from years of watching police procedurals - CSI or Law and Order this is not.
Simon tackles his subject with the same fair minded yet unsparing empathy that made The Wire so special.
It doesn't tackle the big, blockbuster murder case.
Brilliant book.
In those cases where a suspect has already confessed and been identified by at least two eyewitnesses, the lab will give you print hits, fiber evidence, blood typings and a ballistic match.Rule Nine: To a jury, any doubt is reasonable; the better the case, the worse the jury; a good man is hard to find, but 12 of them, gathered together in one place, is a miracle.Rule Ten: There is too such a thing as a perfect murder.
It’s a work of journalistic non-fiction presented in a novelistic style, and was the product of a year in which the author embedded himself in the Baltimore police department’s Homicide squad; with official blessing, he sat in on all kinds of work, and the result is an astonishingly frank portrayal of the way that one of the most challenging jobs in America gets done.
But that's not to say that the hard work doesn't matter.The book also lifts the lid on the aspects of police work that many readers are less likely to be familiar with.
Once upon a time before The Wire was on HBO, there was an NBC show called "Homicide: Life on the Street." It was a fictionalized account of this book, which is a nonfiction portrayal of the BPD's homicide unit.I read this when it first came out.
They were not sympathetic as they rolled up to ask what we were doing sitting on our own front stoops or demand proof of purchase from the corner store.
Much like the denizens of the corner are glorified in that book, the BPD is glorified here.
It's been decades though, so I can't say much more than that was my thought at the time.
It's an uncompromising, funny, heart-breaking, cynical, hopeful, and compelling work that makes the reader feel as if they're truly inside the maelstrom of tragedy and chaos that comprises the life of a homicide detective.
Simon will occasionally take a step back and provide a bird's eye view of, say, the court system or interrogation process, but only as a precursor to diving into real moments involving real people that can fascinate and disgust in equal measure.This strange mix of reactions is both messy and true, as are the cases described within: easy "dunkers", pro-longed investigations solved by intuition or brilliant technique, and consuming mysteries that are never solved despite the best efforts of all involved.
"Homicide" is a strange, real, and powerful book.

An amazing non-fiction book that reads like fiction and educates you about life and justice on the streets of Baltimore. I can't give it any higher praise than suggesting you read it if you haven't.
