https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/268423.Complete_Poems_Of_Robert_Frost_1949
I found this stunning, despite almost five decades of familiarity, many of them teaching certain poems like "Home Burial" and "A Servant to Servants," and of course property feeling in "Stopping by Woods", as well as the role of Edward Thomas and England in the universally misunderstood and admired "Road not Taken," with the most famous aposiopesis in English and American lit, "and I--/ …I took…." My perusal this morning suggested I had neglected a dozen bird poems I should have noted in my "Birdtalk", like "Never again would Birds' Sounds be the Same," "Directive" about the Phoebes weeping to those not versed in country things, "Minor Bird" possibly about Titmouses or Phoebes, and others.
This book was bought in error and is not the complete works of Robert Frost, just a selection.
The night light She always had to burn a light Beside her attic bed at night It gave bad dreams and broken sleep, But helped the Lord her soul to keep Good gloom on her was thrown away. It is on me by night or day,Who have, as I suppose, ahead The darkest of it still to dread.
It speaks of the joy which he derives from this simple act, this boy "too far from town to learn baseball, whose only play was what he found himself." The poet admits that he, too, was once a "swinger of birches." And the poem ends:I'd like to get away from earth awhileAnd then come back to it and begin over.May no fate willfully misunderstand meAnd half grant what I wish and snatch me awayNot to return.
Going through this omnibus cover to cover also had no small impact on my own poetry writing, and I'm glad to have gotten away from the rut my own work was in by looking at the world around me through the borrowed lens of Frost's love of nature.
A better student of poetry would probably have all sorts of things to say about how his style grew and evolved over his life, but I found myself enjoying his early work as much as his late, and experienced no great change in the beautiful quality of his insights and language.
I am rating this although I didn't read the entire book before it had to go back to the library. (I estimate that I read 75%)My previous experience with Robert Frost's poetry has been mostly of his early poems, so I was delighted to find some new favorites in the later ones. Late or early, my preference is still for the shorter poems, although my admiration for his longer poems is growing with exposure. I think that if I enjoyed those longer poems more I would have given this book 5 stars!
Love Robert Frost. Some of my happiest memories include sitting around a few desks with English faculty friends, when I taught at a private school, and delving into the intricacies of a few Frost poems. I also remember sitting in a sauna-like classroom at college during the summer-no air conditioning on a stifling day-and listening to my old, bow-tied professor wax eloquent about Frost and Melville. Days to cherish.
Some of his story poems are really enjoyable. It's like dropping into the middle of a conversation and having to pick up the pieces to figure out what is happening. Others of them are tedious. I found some new ones from him that I enjoyed; but mostly reading him requires a lot of quiet which is not one of my luxuries.
My daughter came to visit yesterday bringing this back. She loaned it to one of her friends who returned it to her only two weeks ago. I think it's got more dog-ears now and I'm pretty sure it has acquired a coffee stain since the last time I opened it.
If not the greatest of modern poets, I don't think many would argue regarding his accessibility. Frost is certainly the poet that resonates most with me.
One of the best poets living or dead.
I pick up and read a one or two a night. Into my Own is one of my favorites.
Read Frost, over and over. He captures the moments in life. The beauty, the horror, the indecision of a moment. Don't look into his biography; it'll ruin it.
Great book for the bath with a glass of wine
It's becoming more and more a futile task.In this case, one of my friends is a huge Robert Frost fan—to the point that his ex-girlfriend once thought he'd given her a Frost poem as a gift when it was really one that he wrote for her—and I value his book recommendations highly.
I told him I wanted to find some poetry that I really connected with, and he, predictably, suggested Frost; so I searched for and discovered this collection of Complete Poems of Robert Frost.
I'd like to find a poet whose work I do really enjoy and connect with, but, regrettably, Robert Frost does not appear to be that poet.
"STORM FEARWhen the wind works against us in the dark,And pelts with snowThe lower chamber windows on the east,And whispers with a sort of stifled bark,The beast,'Come out! Come out!' -It costs no inward struggle not to go,Ah, no!I count our strength,Two and a child,Those of us not asleep subdued to markHow drifts are piled,Dooryard and road ungraded,Till even the comforting barn grows far away,And my heart owns a doubtWhether 'tis in us to arise with dayAnd save ourselves unaided."
I love Robert Frost poems.
Nothing to say to all those marriages!She had made three herself to three of his.The score was even for them, three to three.But come to die she found she cared so much:She thought of children in a burial row;Three children in a burial row were sad.One man's three women in a burial rowSomehow made her impatient with the man.And so she said to Laban, "You have doneA good deal right; don't do the last thing wrong.Don't make me lie with those two other women."Laban said, No, he would not make her lieWith anyone but that she had a mind to,If that was how she felt, of course, he said.She went her way.
In elementary school, my teacher hung up a beautiful poster printed with "Acquainted with the Night." The background picture was a dark dreamy urban silhouette, lit by a single street lamp. Sadly, we never covered Robert Frost in class but I read the poem to myself every morning and looked for Mr. Frost's poetry in our school library. I'm nearly thirty now, and as cliche as it is, I still unashamedly love curling up with this book on cold nights. I read "My November Guest" every autumn!
In the UK, English teachers don't tend to teach a lot of American poetry - it's usually reserved for university education.
I'll tell you, though, they could go further and do worse than to introduce some Robert Frost poetry into the curriculum.
Disclaimer: I'm no poetry buff.
I do, however, like a bit of poetry every now and then and I find Robert Frost's poems very accessible and utterly beautiful in their imagery.
Some of his poems are pretty long but many are very short and he manages to pack so much narration and world-building into just a few lines.
The Complete Poems of Robert Frost by Robert Frost (Holt, Rinehart & Winston 1964) (811+/-). This is the complete collection of his work. “Mending Wall,” “The Road Not Taken,” and “Stopping By the Woods on a Snowy Evening” are the most immediately recognizable. My rating: 7/10, finished 10/25/14.
I do find it harder to read poems than prose. Although some of them are really short they are made to think. This sounds daft, but I do read to escape I find at least at this moment. I want to get lost in a story. I will try again in another phase of my life :-)
Given four stars on the merit of mainly his prose poems, which I couldn't love more. The rest of Frost, for me, is generally take it or leave it.
His poetry has so many levels! Love his writting!
We had to read Robert Frost in 3rd and 4th grades. I still remember some of the poems that we had to memorize. lovers of poetry don't miss this book
Of course, not all the poems in a complete collection are going to be amazing. But enough of these are to merit 5 stars. It should be on the shelf of every poetry lover.
I have promises to keep,and miles to go before I sleep,and miles to go before I sleep.
i like the poem MY NOVEMBER GUEST the best.
Book
Great American poetry.
