https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/808879.The_Shivering_Sands
Old-fashioned, Gothic style mystery/suspense novel by the prolific Victoria Holt, written in 1969, and set in what appears to be the late Victorian era in England (there are trains but no automobiles; girls put their hair up at age 17).
Caroline Verlaine, a young widow and very talented pianist who had let her own career lapse in favor of supporting her husband's, takes a job at the mysterious Stacy mansion on the Kent coast in order to quietly investigate the disappearance of her older sister.
Don't read this one for the romantic feelz, is what I'm saying.I had fun trying to suss out who was the murderer (with some success) and why (with somewhat less success).
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest🦇 Read for the Unapologetic Romance Readers  Halloween 2018 Reading Challenge  for the category of: A romance written by an author who is dead 🦇As if I needed an excuse to read more gothic romances... well, I do, which is why I'm taking part in a Halloween Reading Challenge designed to celebrate all things paranormal, dark, and spooky in my favorite genre - romance.Victoria Holt, who died in 1993, was one of the obvious go-to choices for th
well, I do, which is why I'm taking part in a Halloween Reading Challenge designed to celebrate all things paranormal, dark, and spooky in my favorite genre - romance.Victoria Holt, who died in 1993, was one of the obvious go-to choices for the "author who is dead" category.
He doesn't have any of the rugged gothic charm that some of Holt's other heroes have, and the excessive name-drops of Edward Rochester from Jane Eyre didn't win this book any favors, because all it did was remind me of other, better gothic romances that I could be reading instead.I'm even more annoyed because usually I only spend $1.99 on an ebook, but since this is an author I usually like, I bit the bullet and spend $2.50 or whatever it was this ebook cost when it was on sale.
It was as though she had just walked out into nowhere."The quick run down on the plot: heroine Caroline comes to the Dover Coast in search of her sister who vanished without a trace (sister was an archaeologist working on local digs).
In true Victoria Holt fashion, it doesn't take long for things to go bump in the night (is there a ghost?), a brooding hero (did he do the dirty deed?) and there's mystery and suspense a-plenty for our plucky heroine to deal with.And then there's those shivering sands:“But…it was low water and I saw the sands…lovely looking clean golden sand, all rippled.
***2017 Summer Lovin’ Reading List *** In many ways, this is a very dated Gothic romance—after all, it was first published in 1969. I’m pretty sure that I read it as a teenager, but it must not have been part of my personal collection, because this reading felt like I was enjoying it for the first time. There are enough differences from Holt’s usual romance formula to make it feel a bit fresher plot-wise too.A young widow, Caroline Verlaine, takes a position as music teacher at an estate close
There are enough differences from Holt’s usual romance formula to make it feel a bit fresher plot-wise too.A young widow, Caroline Verlaine, takes a position as music teacher at an estate close to excavated Roman ruins where her sister had been working as an archaeologist, only to disappear under mysterious circumstances.
Concealing her relationship to the missing woman, Caroline tries to trace her missing sister.
Of course, further disappearances occur and there are mysterious goings-on that lure Caroline into dangerous situations.
I felt the heroine’s choice should have been just a bit more difficult, requiring a just bit more agonizing than occurred.
And what fun for the reader to untangle slowly along with Caroline.
Just a little bit of innocent romance is the icing on the cake.
Not to mention, castles, seaside, Roman ruins...We never really know when this takes place exactly but I would put it in the mid to late 1800s.
A couple little things I would change.
Why does the protagonist always venture out alone in the night repeatedly when she knows there is danger afoot?
Why does Caroline not show more emotion with respect to the disappearance of her sister?
I usually stray away from the romance genre, but I love these old Gothic mysteries and this one is no exception. The Shivering Sands is eerie, suspenseful and subtly haunting in its plot and assortment of original characters.
Victoria Holt really was the queen of the Gothic romance. Spent many enjoyable hours reading her novels over the years. They are a little dated now but you can never detract from a story well told. Many reviews already on offer but if Gothic romance with a well plotted mystery component is what you are looking for then this novel does deliver. Love the air of sinister foreboding and isolation. Also enjoyed that the "culprit" wasn't readily apparent. Enjoyed all the characters on offer here.
What can one say when a book is so good?Caroline Brandon was the black sheep of her family.
Now that Pietro was gone Roma was her only comfort.
Roma, whose worth Caroline never fully realized till now.
Caroline must and will find out the truth of her disappearance, she won't believe the stories she has been told, they just can't be right!
So she goes to Kent, the very place her sister disappeared, but someone there doesn't want her to know, and they will do anything, anything at all to stop her.
I didn't always like Caroline, she was an idiot.
Plenty of Gothic fun and suspense.
I have too literal a mind for some kinds of books and I tend to take a very dim view of abusive men with dark pasts.
My inner Mr. Spock kept getting in the way, too, noting that there were rather too many crazy people wandering around Lovat Mill, that everyone seemed to be hiding an improbable number of secrets, and that quicksand does not work quite the way the book suggests.
No sex or bloody scenes, but a nasty murderer, suggested paranormal happenings and plenty of nut-cases and out-of wedlock babies.
An entertaining gothic just as I remembered.I have been revisiting the gothics of my mother and my teen years. I am certain I would have rated this very highly when I was younger. I've picked this up at this time as part of a buddy read. Atmospheric and intriguing it was more predictable than my younger self would have thought. But still a good experience and I do recommend it. I've got a few more Holts around I look forward to sinking into.
We follow the character of Caroline Verlaine as she goes about investigating (poorly) at Lovat Stacy to find out more about her older sister's Roma's disappearance.
Recovering from Pietro's death then has Caroline going off to see her sister who is near Lovat Stacy looking into some Roman ruins that are nearby.
The action does not get going until after we have Caroline finding out about her sister's disappearance.
Even though Caroline is told countless stories about Napier and how he caused his older brother's Beau's death, she feels angry anytime tells her about what a bad guy he is.
This was a chance read - a copy was lying about my ancestral house (the place which collects books, as I remarked once) and being stuck without anything to read, I sank my teeth into this one. And it was a very satisfying experience. I remember very less of it: only the first person narrator (a young widow caught between conflicting feelings for two men) and the method of murder, which was blood-curdlingly satisfying.
I read this book in high school/college and loved it. I vividly remember the day I finished reading it because I was alone in the house and ran out in the summer sunshine to be with my mother and sister because the ending was so creepy to me. I have NEVER forgotten it or the way it made me feel.
This was my first victoria holt novel and i was 15 years then. The cover of the book had a haunting looking girl with waves of water around her.It was this cover that made me read i was still young and new to the world of books and this was a author and Genre unknown to me.I was in for a treat. It was the most suspenseful book ever and many years later after having read countless holt books i can safely say that this is her best work.
4 and 1/2 Stars - A love story wrapped in a mystery!Set in the late Victorian era, this is the story of Caroline Verlaine, a young widow, who has lost her archeologist parents and her brilliant pianist husband to untimely deaths, and now her sister Roma has disappeared.
Determined to find Roma, who went missing while on a dig in Dover, England, Caroline, who is a pianist herself, takes a job in the area—as a resident piano teacher to Sir William Stacy’s three young charges.
Carolina, determined to learn what happened to her Roma, accepts the position without revealing her relationship to Roma.The story, in the 1880s, is set in near Deal on the eastern shores of the United Kingdom.
SHIVERING SANDS is well written in the first person, giving Carolina the only point of view, which keeps the reader engaged in trying to solve the mysteries of Lovat Stacy along with her.After reading three best selling contemporary romance thrillers, which I rated three stars, I found THE SHIVERING SANDS without a dust jacket amongst our books of unknown origin.
I haven't read a lot of Victoria Holt, but so far, I have to say that her heroines--such as Caroline Verlaine, in this novel--are level-headed, sensible and accomplished.
The other genre foibles hold true, however, and the romance itself was barely tepid.As for the story, Caroline takes on the position of music teacher at an estate in the English countryside, both because she needs to earn a living and because she hopes to discover what happened to her sister, who disappeared while excavating some Roman ruins on the property.
It scores big points for gothic atmosphere, the heroine, and handling of the mystery, although the love story was a little too standard for my taste.
It alone made me love the book.
:-)(EDITED SO AS NOT TO CONTAIN TOO MUCH SPOILING)My head told me, "Go right away from here and forget your nightmares.
Live graciously, comfortable and easy.""But," said my heart, "this is where you belong.
Nightmares, perhaps.
The past to mock you for having once more followed the call of the heart."And when he came to me, he said, "You're going to be a fool.
The Shivering Sands is a great introduction to her work, and had me figuratively on the edge of my seat at various points.Written in 1969, and set in the latter part of the 19th Century, the novel tells the story of Caro, the younger daughter of two archaeologists, who has grown up in the shadow of their discoveries and of her sister, who is two years older and following in their parents’ footsteps.
They work together to uncover the secrets behind the disappearances and other mysterious happenings, but it slowly becomes obvious that the investigation is putting Caro’s life in danger.Red herrings abound in this story, and the romance is nicely underplayed much of the time.
It didn't help that I thought the heroine was rather dim for not figuring out what her pupils were up to (it seemed pretty obvious), and I found the hero too one-dimensional to be interesting, or maybe he just wasn't around enough to become a compelling character.
The narrative felt like one dead-end scene after another of characters endlessly talking--about the past, about the present, about each other--but not doing a whole lot, and the heroine seemed to reach the same conclusions and resolutions over and over, which really made the story drag.
Either my tastes have changed or this was not one of Ms. Holt's best.
Someone once told me that Victoria Holt was the queen of Gothic romances, and so it seemed like a good choice--especially because I've already read the most iconic of Gothic romances, Daphne DeMaurier's Rebecca, Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights, and Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre.In the wake of the disappearance of her archaeologist sister Roma, Caroline takes on the position of music teacher for the manor in the town in which Roma disappeared.
The title refers to the quicksands that lurk off the coast of Lovat Stacy, which have devoured ships whole, leaving only their masts to haunt the inhabits of the manor and town on the shore.This was definitely a Gothic.
Published originally in 1969, it follows Holt's tried-and-true formula and has some interesting moments even though it's not her best work.The heroine here is a recently-widowed Caroline Verlaine, whose late husband was a virtuoso pianist.
She's determined to find out what happened to Roma but is somewhat sidetracked by life in the difficult Stacy household, which contains interesting characters such as the ailing head of family Sir William; his dark and brooding son Napier with a tragic secret in his past; creepily strange Sybil, sister of Sir William; the enigmatic housekeeper; and three young girls with somewhat intriguing parentage and suspicious behavior.
The characters are developed well and the story moves along nicely for the first half of the book.
3,5. The ending was unexpected.
I read several Victoria holt books as a kid. This was my favorite.
Perhaps my first foray into gothic-romance-mystery, it was helpful to consult google images, dictionary, and articles to visualize the landscape, architecture, and other elements the author used to depict place, period, and cultural references.
The time period is 1880.I made a goal this year to read one book a month which I own, selecting a shelf at random and picking the book furthest to the left.
I must have picked this one up at a library book sale as it was very aged and battered.
A little research (google) about the author informed me that she was quite prolific and versatile.
I read this in a fit of nostalgia since I used to read Holt when I was a wee tot. Okay, maybe junior high. It wasn't bad. I was surprised. The title led me to think "cheesy" but then it was explained in a way I could accept. So if you're looking for an easy read that isn't too badly written, I'd say go for it.
When the opportunity opens up for Caroline to teach piano to four girls connected with the estate, she grabs it--both for the needed income and for the chance to investigate her sister's disappearance.
She doesn't know who to trust--the girls she has been teaching all seem to be keeping secrets and, though Caroline finds herself intrigued by and attracted to Napier, he is after all the black sheep of the family.
Caroline isn't quite the investigator that she imagines herself--stumbling on things rather more than deducing (and playing the Gothic suspense heroine who keeps going about alone and getting herself into trouble way more than necessary).
It might have been read on the sly, but I hardly think it likely that a housekeeper acting as a temporary teacher/governess would have made it assigned reading.* Admittedly, Allegra is supposed to be a handful, but a young lady of the time wouldn't have been allowed to discuss things like illegitimacy so openly.* Ah, another unlikely "career"-- "Alice says she wants to write stories like Wilkie Collins.
I think it was very rare that employers would want to hire a pregnant young woman to work in their home-- particularly as a governess!
I wonder how so many readers have given this book high ratings saying it was spooky, eerie and one of Holt’s best. I totally disagree with them. In fact, I purchased the book because of these good ratings.‘The India Fan’ was way better and much more engrossing than this book.Some observations:a) The mystery takes a backseat when Caroline goes to stay at Lovat Stacy, just because she does not want people to know her relation with Roma. She hardly does any investigation. b) Were the police not inv
In fact, I purchased the book because of these good ratings.‘The India Fan’ was way better and much more engrossing than this book.Some observations:a)	The mystery takes a backseat when Caroline goes to stay at Lovat Stacy, just because she does not want people to know her relation with Roma.
Caroline makes no effort to find this.c)	Caroline keeps regretting that she had to give up her music career, numerous times.
And were they so serious about pursuing a career?d)	There are repetitive dialogues between Napier and Caroline.
(There was one in ‘The India Fan’ too.)
The beginning of the book was more interesting than the last half because of the little bit of character development in the first half and also the setting was described well.
And the conversations between the two were just...weird.The supporting characters were interesting but I kept getting all the girls mixed up - Sylvia, Allegra, Alice, and then Sybil (who was really strange although they did allow that she was just a little bit 'off' in the head).I knew right away what had happened to Roma but couldn't figure out how.
The Edith thing was a little strange.
