https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1990191.The_Giant_Horse_of_Oz
It also largely sticks to the plot a little better than most of Thompson's work, tying a lot of the story to the attempts to save the Ozure Isles from the monster Quiberon and restore their lost queen.
It's an enjoyable read if you like Thompson's breezy, whimsical style, although parts of it seem rushed.
That said, it also starts with a lyrical description of the Ozure Isles instead of immediately getting into dialogue, often frantic or angry dialogue, as is more common for her.
More of the usual.
New kingdoms and characters introduced.
Lots of traveling and magic.
The most unique thing about this story is that it brings back the Witch of the North, whom we have not seen since the very first book.
She was the first witch Dorothy met (not Glinda, like in the movie), and for some reason we never saw her again.
Her back story is explained.
I like the Thompson Oz stories best when they pay attention to the original Oz characters and give them their own adventure and/or a back story.
One of Thompson's best Oz books, her approach to Oz is very different to Baum's but if you can accept that then several of her books have much to commend them and this is one such. A fairly good plot with the characters having more motivation for their actions than usual. High boy, the giant horse of the title, who moves up and down on telescopic legs (!) is an excellent addition to the Oz canon. Of John R. Neill's artwork, although variable some of the pictures especially several of the chapter headings are amongst his best work.
I had forgotten that we had bought this book in Dryden, NY and had Marianna Holzer restore it for us. This was not one of the original Oz books written by L. Frank Baum, but fits in with the original ones quite well. Mrs Thompson has quite a vivid imagination and fits in new original characters with the old well known ones. Oniberon is a dreadful sea serpent who terrorizes the Ozure Isles. The Queen has been missing for years, and her son, Prince Philador sets out to find her.
Gnome King is still my favorite of Ruth's, but this one has plenty of imagination, too.
My kids really enjoyed this 'continuation' of The Wizard of Oz.
Nowhere close to the charm, magic, and inventiveness of the originals. These books should not be considered Oz canon.
Seriously this is book 22!? I always just assumed it was 15 since it was the only non-Baum one we owned.
