https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424518.The_Brass_Cupcake
I've read a sprinkling of JDM's 'other' books but this was his first published novel.
Reading the series from beginning to end for the third time but need to take more time to read other MacDonald's standalones.
This insurance investigator (ex-cop) in my mind laid the groundwork for Travis' first book, "....Blue." I've grown weary of saying "look at the period when the book was written" because reviewers tend to criticize a book due to cultural changes.
Damn...how did I go from a review on "The Brass Cupcake" about Cliff Bartells (a protype Travis McGee) to sex, drugs and rock 'n roll?
I love JDM's style.
He cuffed her upright and yanked her into my office......The silence lasted.
Then the office door opened and they came out.
Her dark eyes were aglow."So, basically, hire John D.
MacDonald to write, just don't hire him to help you with your woman, marriage, or daughter.
I know, I know, I should probably separate the character(s) from the author, but I get the vibe that the John D's apple might not fall all that far from the 1950s, Schopenhaueresque (man dominant/woman subservient) tree.Other than that one, BIG critique, I loved this book.
John D. MacDonald's debut novel. A twisted version of Double Indemnity in which a former police lieutenant turned insurance investigator travels back to the Florida town where he worked as a cop to buy back some stolen jewels and find out who murdered the owner. The Brass Cupcake is a great read and the main character is an interesting precursor to John D. MacDonald's Travis McGee.
I haven't read JDM in over 30 years..long enough to forget what I've read, given the genre. I enjoyed this, thought it was definitely a 50s period piece. It was set in southern Florida, a territory Carl Hiaasen would further explore. Ostensibly a mystery, it was more following the protagonists thoughts (It was told in the first person), the guilty party being more or less apparent. I understand this was JDM's first, so I'm going to put him in rotation.
The Brass Cupcake is a strong example of John MacDonald’s entertaining approach to the detective and noir milieu.Only a few years after World War II, former cop Cliff Bartells is working as an insurance investigator in the thoroughly corrupt Florence City, Florida.
The Brass Cupcake was a highly entertaining crime caper, packed with unusual characters, overheated scenarios and lots of sardonic humor.
With a perfectly balanced blend of character, plot and tone, MacDonald crafted an entirely absorbing bit of comedic noir that still packed a dangerous punch.The Brass Cupcake demonstrates why MacDonald’s work should be on the reading list of any serious genre enthusiast.
Head to Florida's gulf coast and follow ex-cop Cliff Bartells, as he heads into trouble trying to solve the mystery and murder. The author knows how to write a crime thriller and has several books to choose from.
Beach readThis book is perfect for crime buffs. Excellent plot, interesting characters and the kind of book that will appeal to most. Being a bit dated doesn't hurt it at all, in fact it adds to the pleasure.
Very slow oft-putting start.Pace - 2: The plot kicks in by the second chapter or so and things move nicely.Plot -2: An older lady is killed, apparently, during a robbery of her safe containing jewels worth about $750,000.
Lazy writing: a very early (first?) effort by MacDonald.SUMMARY: My rating is 1.8, and this is only worth reading if you're already a fan of the Travis McGhee series."Pale Gray for Guilt" - 1968 - 2.4"Girl in the Plan Brown wrapper" - 1968 - 3.8"Big Blue Goodbye" - 1964 - 3.2"The Homesick Buick" - 1950 - 3.2"The Brass Cupcake" - 1950 - 1.8John D.
John MacDonald's first novel! Love his writing and he was a winner from the start!
Classic 50s noir. Hard to put downSuspenseful tale of a good man bringing down thieves, murderers, and dirty cops, then ending up with the rich blonde. The 50s Florida milieu seems like another, far off place.
This book, first published in 1950, is an above-average potboiler with a lot of great description of what Florida's gulf coast was like not long after World War II ended.
But the book suffers greatly -- at least in the eyes of this modern reader -- from both an antique sense of what makes male-female relationships work and an almost laughable effort to employ unusual euphemisms to describe the sex scenes.
The relationship stuff is the most jarring, as MacDonald seems to not only condone but actually encourage domestic violence as a solution to communication problems in a relationship (i.e., slap some sense into the woman and she'll appreciate your manliness).
MacDonald’s Cliff Barttels reminds me of characters by Raymond Chandler (Phillip Marlowe) and Dashell Hammett (San Spade).
I’ve read several John D.
This plot centers around a heist of jewelry and the murder of Aunt Elizabeth.
One is her marriage to a smooth operator/cad named Furny (who’s real interest is getting his hand on Aunt Elizabeth’s money one way or the other).
Cliff is responsible for recovering the jewelry and/or payingthe premium.
The crooked cops, all police officers Cliff previously work with.
Will Cliff have the support he needs or will he have to get another source involved to help him fine the thief and murder.
First chapter is a super efficient setup: the crime, the task, the stakes, the carrot, and the character all connected and careening into the hot Florida sun, so setting, too.
Reads a quite a bit like a mashup of Hammett and Chandler, with less of the easily recognizable MacDonald style (although it is apparent in the way he introduces and develops the characters), which is not so surprising for a first out of the gate hard-boiled novel after apprenticing with stories in the same detective magazines that Hammett and Chandler did.So we have Cliff Bartells as our ex-cop turned insurance investigator and hard-boiled protagonist.
"The Brass Cupcake" is MacDonald's first novel and it did not disappoint.While the book's lead protagonist is not Travis himself, I found aspects of Travis McGee sprinkled throughout this story.
But best of all, the book did keep me guessing -- while at a certain point I was able to figure out the outcome of some aspects of the story, I certainly didn't figure out all of it and that's always nice and fun.I'm perhaps a little too new to MacDonald's work as a whole to be able to say this, but "The Brass Cupcake" might be a good starting point on which to embark on his works.
Now I find myself wondering if I should continue with his next published book ("Wine of the Dreamers" from 1951), or just continue on with his Travis McGee series?
this is the first non-mcgee macdonald book i've read....it bodes well for the rest.an insurance investigator drummed out of the police department for being too honest (this was the 50s) is on the trail of a jewel heist. along the way he will run into a murderer and a rich heiress...good times ensue.
Originally came out in 1950. A year before I was born. It really takes me back to how much simpler things were back then. Really have to think they were better times, except for things like beating the confession out of whoever gets pulled in for a crime.
Macdonald's first novel, from 1950. Has many of the aspects that make the McGee books so great, yet was not such an amazing read to me. I'll ascribe this to it to being his first.
This is a stand alone novel, not part of his McGee series, but like many of M'Donald's other books, this one takes place in Florida.Cliff Bartells has a "brass cupcake," a sardonic description of his former badge.
Bartells came home from the war and returned to Florence City, Florida, to work as a cop.
"Just another cupcake." He was forced to resign as the one honest cop in the town and found his way to work for an insurance company and charged with buying back stolen goods from fences.
MacDonald has Cliff Bartells, a former lieutenant on the city police force of Florence, Florida, now an insurance adjuster, becoming more and more of a suspect in the murder and robbery of a local woman as the story moves forward.
MacDonald has a way of writing that you can see and feel what’s happening.
Purists might say it’s overdone, but it’s not, it’s just enough to make you feel the story while putting enough in the way so that you can’t predict the next scene or the eventual outcome.
Cleverly plotted with a surprise climaxThe device used to catch the bad guys was right out of the early and mid fifties. I still recall having access to one when I was ten or eleven. My grandchildren would need to have it explained. Don't want to say more for fear of leaving a spoiler. Some reviewers object to MacDonald characterization of women. I believe his characterization reflects the behavior and activity of that time. We can condemn those social mores, but need to recognize that time laid the foundation for the world we have now: freedoms and warts both.
My second JMD book. Still haven’t made it through End of the Night. I think it’s the way it’s written; like sifting through court records. Anyway, I really dig this one. Liked the main character, the prose, the references to other authors, the plot, and the ending. looking forward to many more. Recommended.
---Insurance investigator & ex cop Cliff Bartells thinks that there is something fishy about the way the official investigation into the murder of a prominent woman and the theft of her valuable jewelry which he is attempting to recover. He is rousted by the police and beaten badly, then accused of murder but is able to set a trap to prove his theories about the whole thing.---
His first book, I think. Not bad, kind of like Ross Macdonald. But not good good. Awful treatment of women, ten steps worse than Travis Magee, who makes me sick. Plot has fingerprints all over it.
unrealistic and violent. Really not my type of book.
in one of the other stories i've read from macdonald, his hero protagonist narrator laments the way things are done...and in this one that same lamentation is present.
i think i said in another review that events like this remind me of old black and white movies, sunday morning or afternoon, years ago...the interaction between the leading men and the leading ladies...fluttering eyelids...greedy paws...and there exists in this story like in at least one other i've read, that sort of interaction.it'd be interesting to chronicle those scenes, book-mark them maybe...i've highlighted them on the kindle stories i've read...but other than mentioning them, offering them as a curiosity of the times...i'm not much more interested in them.
An incorruptible ex-cop in Florida working as an insurance fixer gets involved in a murder investigation that reveals how clearly corrupt the police force of the town is.
Sort of like paying ransom to terrorist kidnappers, it seems top me; a policy that guarantees more guys will try to steal insured jewels.I doubt I will remember much of the details, except for the atmosphere of corruption at the core of the Florida community, inhabited by decadent gay body-builders who work as muscle for the local mobsters, and barely closeted gay guys who prey upon lonely rich widows and spinsters.
I enjoyed this as much as the Travis McGee series for the plot and the writing. However I kept losing my historical perspective on the very evident male chauvinism in John D.'s depiction of each and every female character. As in "Oh, isn't it interesting that that's how women were viewed in the fifties." I kind of wanted to hit him over the head. But if MacDonald was anything like his main character, Bartells, that probably wouldn't even faze him.
I was freaking out because I’m almost out of Travis McGee books to read – then I reminded myself that there is a boatload of other MacDonald novels out there – so I managed to find the very first one. This book is obviously dated (first published in 1950), but all the elements are there – great plot, great cast of characters, lots of subterfuge, wild antics and inadvertently funny time-in-space issues. MacDonald is just a great story teller. That is all.
John D. MacDonald's debut at novel length fiction. The prose is a little stiff, but the promise is there - and was certainly fulfilled.Cliff Bartells is an insurance investigator in Flower City, on Florida's gulf coast. When Elizabeth Stegman is murdered and her jewels stolen, he must try to recover the jewels and prevent a $750,000 insurance payout. He must sidestep the mob and the crooked cops, while determining if Stegman's sole heir, Melody Chance, is involved in the heist.
MacDonald's first book, and it felt that way. Early signs of the themes that he would return to repeatedly - greed, public corruption, Florida - but the style and language feel more like an attempt to imitate Chandler or Hammet (or possibly Cain, whom I've not yet read but who received several nods in this book ).
