https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44652.Fablehaven
3.5
I didn't hate this book but I'm glad I didn't spend money on it.Seth and Kendra's parents are going on a cruise and they need to dump their kids off at their grandparents' house.
Once there though, they realize that their grandparents' home and the land it sits on is not at all ordinary and proceed to get themselves in all kinds of trouble with fairies, witches, and even a few satyrs.My single biggest problem with this story is every main character is either unlikable, irresponsible, or both.
I don't know if my younger brother and I just got along better than most siblings, but a lot of the things that Kendra and Seth say and do to each other are downright mean.
The premise is simple enough: two siblings, thirteen-year-old Kendra and her eleven-year-old brother, Seth, are relegated to spending time with their paternal grandparents, Grandma and Grandpa Sorenson, while their parents enjoy a seventeen-day Scandinavian cruise.
When their rash actions, and disobedience to some important rules, leads to retribution from the magical world of Fablehaven, Kendra, Seth, Grandpa Sorenson, and even Grandma, who seems to be missing, are in for a ride.
Kudos to Mr. Mull for such a great debut fantasy novel, and for giving me something absolutely wonderful to read during my Harry Potter-deprived winter.
The book series, which includes Fablehaven, Fablehaven: Rise of the Evening Star, Fablehaven: Grip of the Shadow Plague, Fablehaven: Secrets of the Dragon Sanctuary, and Fablehaven: Keys to the Demon Prison, is published by Shadow Mountain in hardcover and Simon & Schuster in paperback.
Fablehaven is a secret nature preserve protecting beings of myth and legend from the outside world.
The current caretaker, Stan Sorenson, describes it as "a refuge for mystical creatures".
Those who live in this large sanctuary, mortal and magical, must abide by a treaty of rules.
There also exist magical borders that keep most mystical creatures within the preserve, but out of certain domains.
Without giving away too much of the plot, I must say that this book is NOT really about caring for magical creatures on some sort of enchanted preserve.
It is rather about all the stupid things the kids staying there do that messes things up, gets other people in trouble, unleashes terrible creatures, and makes things pretty crummy.
It just seemed a bit icky to me.******All in all, it was a decent enough story for me to finish but I really wished the writing and character development had been good enough to really deliver what promised to be such a neat story.
why can't i stop re-reading this series?no matter how many times i re-read this i still love itand i have got the boxset, a b-day present from my mom. i love the whole series so much, i must buy myself the boxset.
[4.5 Stars]
At first I was thinking, "Oh great, not another story about fairies." But after a while I realized that Mull puts some very interesting twists in his version of fantastical creatures. His adds some great morals and gives the reader a chance to see how great kids can be, as if we somehow lose sight of their potential when we become adults. A great read!
I don't know why I don't have an official review for this book, but suffice to say I've lost count of the number of times I've read it, and it will always have a special place in my heart and on my shelf. :)
This is one of the best kept secrets out there.
This series is amazing and it's my favorite series after Harry Potter.
It's surprising and twisting and you are just cheering by the end.
Check it outThis is about a magical creatures reserve run by an elder couple.
Their grandkids have to come live with them in the summer and the fun is the kids discovering the magic surrounding them.
Each step is wonderful and each book gets better and better.
There are fairies all over the yard and the world and so this book is so dear to me.
So much fun!
reminds me of the spiderwick chronicles just better.i have just noticed how much of a drama queen kendra is.
My daughter, Sarah, (8 years old, but a great reader) and I have loved this book, as well as its sequel, Rise of the Evening Star.
(One time, during the first book, Sarah came to me and asked me to finish reading the chapter with her because, "it's freaking me out!" We finished it together, and all was well.) The vocabulary is challenging, the plot is complex enough to demand careful attention from readers, and there is a thoughtful reading guide in the back to aid in discussions.
A great foray into thoughtful readings of difficult books.
I hate these children; I kept thinking either what horrid whiny little brats they are, or else what spoiled selfish raging aholes they are. Seth cannot learn an effing lesson because his stupid grampa won’t punish him for his horrid behavior, and he thinks it’s fine to just go around capturing sentient beings - any consequences that befall him lead to him being like “well we’re even now, so whatevs” after someone else rescues his sorry ass. And Kendra says stuff like “I thought you were just the half-Chinese housekeeper.” You can go now, Kendra.
.I adored this book! Absolutely gripping and wonderful. Wonderful fantasy and strong characters without being too goody goody. Recommended to everyone!
It is about Kendra and Seth's adventures in Fablehaven, that is a sanctuary of mystical creatures.
Seth, as the younger one, always breaks the rules, generating the main conflicts of the story.Grandpa & Grandma.
The grandparents hold back a lot of information in order  to motivate Kendra and Seth to figure things out themselves, to see if they are capable of taking over the caretaker position of the haven later.
Well, it is really weird of grandparents to test their grandchildren like this, to put their life at risk.A threatening conspiracy comes to light, and the Society of the Evening Star behind it is mysterious enough to carry many possibilities for the future books.
It's different from many other popular fantasy books, because there is a complete family structure included.
In fact, I've loved fantasy / sci-fi ever since.
Of course, authors have always had a great deal of license when it comes to mythical creatures and they definitely vary a great deal from one book to another, but I like Brandon Mull’s perspective and enjoyed his description of fairies, especially when they are called upon by the Fairy Queen to assist Kendra in defeating a demon named Bahumat.
In this day and age, we are talking WOW!!!NOTE: I would DEFINITELY drink the milk!!
[3.5 Stars] This was pretty good, but I was a little conflicted about my rating. If I hadn't already read the Spiderwick Chronicles this would have gotten a higher rating, but alas I have. They had elements that were fairly similar and as a result I didn't enjoy this as much as I should have. I also think I'm just spoiled by Chris Riddell and Paul Stewart when it comes to middle grade. Regardless this was a fun read, and I'll definitely continue on!
I have no idea this book could be so awesome! I have to admit.... the cover scared me away (not a huge "fantasy" fan, generally....) but this was honestly one of the best books I've ever read. Fantastic writing for older elementary - but held me glued to it as an adult. Off to the library to get the rest in the series....
I suppose I'll start with the fact that I'd expected the book to focus more on the actual "Fantastical Preserve" - ie, what a caretaker actually does day-in and day-out to care for magical creatures.
Additionally, the ramifications for not telling the children all they needed to know was pretty sever, and again, I'm not sure how well the characters "learned their lessons." But, again, it is a series...
So, oddly enough, I find myself curious to read the next book, but unfortunately I was not nearly as impressed as I was with other fantasy stories.
"None of these creatures are good.
Not the way we think of good.
None are safe.
Much of morality is peculiar to mortality.
The best creatures here are merely not evil."This was such a wonderful mythical magical read.
This is my first Brandon Mull book and I can boldly say, I was left feeling more than satisfied with frequent nostalgic feelings of my younger days lol.
Even though this is a children's book the story was gripping and the world that the author created most fascinating.I will definitely be continuing this series.
เรารูสึกวาผูแตงมาถูกทางละนะ เนือเรืองกสนุกพอตัวเลยแหละ มีเอกลักษณอยูบาง แตเราวามันยังไมสุด เหมือนกับขาดอะไรบางอยางไป ทีแรกวาจะใหแค 2 ดาว แตพออานตอนจบแลวเราวามันโอเคขึนมาหนอย และบวกอีก 1 ดาวเพิมไปละกัน ตอนแรกเรารำคาญตัวละครทังสองตัวมาก โดยเฉพาะ...เซธ เขาเปนเดกผูชายทีตอนแรกเรามองวาซุกซน แตพออานไปเรือยๆเรารูสึกวามันมีเสนบางๆกันระหวางคำวา...ซุกซน กับ นิสัยเสียอยู ซึงเรากหาขอสรุปไดวาเซธนาจะเปนอยางหลังมากกวา เราวาซุกซนนาจะใชอธิบายเดกๆทีซน แตยังพอหาความนารักได พอโดนผูใหญตักเตือน เขาจะรูสึกผิดบางไมมากกน
เรารู้สึกว่าผู้แต่งมาถูกทางละนะ เนื้อเรื่องก็สนุกพอตัวเลยแหละ มีเอกลักษณ์อยู่บ้าง แต่เราว่ามันยังไม่
2.5 Stars Hugo slackened his pace, and they came to a stop in front of the shadowy doorway. The church was completely still. There was no sign anybody had been there in a hundred years."I'd rather have the sun, but at least we still have some light," Grandma said, using a tool to set the silver-headed arrow to the string of her undersized crossbow and pull it into position. "Let's get this over with as soon as we can. Evil likes darkness.""Why is that?" Seth asked.Grandma thought about the quest
While I liked the idea of it, I found the plot a bit repetitive and I felt that the characters didn't have much depth and were, frankly, kind of annoying.
As I said at the beginning, I don't read a lot of middle grade fiction so I felt a little out of my element with this book.
It got kind of formulaic after a while and it seemed to keep repeating something along these lines:Grandpa: Seth and Kendra, there's this thing I don't want you to do.
Because the more I read MG novels, especially the fantasy ones, the more I feel the urge to kick myself in the shin for not reading them sooner.
I love the characters, I love the writing, I love the world that they live in, and I especially love the last line.
Whatever the case, I had plenty of fun.Of course, this is a series, so I'm sure that that simplicity won't last and that this world is just going to get more complex as we go along, but I'm still up for the ride!
I can't wait to get my hands on all five books of this series.
I wanted desperately to like it, but it was a struggle to keep reading past the first few chapters.
I had major issues with Mull's writing style, and his characters were little better than basic stock characters.
There was no surprise in the plot, and I wanted to reach into the book and grab the grandparents to shake them into speaking like real people do.
The only parts in the book where I got even a little bit excited or scared or interested were the Midsummer's Eve section and the end battle chapters.
Their grandparents live on the magical preserve, Fablehaven, a refuge for fairies, trolls, satyrs, and many of the things that go BUMP!
in the night.Overwhelmed and excited by all that the house and its vast yard have to offer, Kendra and Seth both exhibit very different approaches to interacting with Fablehaven's magical creatures.
Seth, on the other hand, bold and mischievous, turns all of Fablehaven upside down with his recklessness and bravado.
Because of Seth's exploits, Kendra and Seth must work together to save their family and this magical place.
I picked up this book after attending a "Meet the Author" event at our local library. I had to fight my 9-year old daughter for it..."Mom, are you reading my book AGAIN?" We loved it. Fablehaven is a fascinating place, brought to life vividly by Brandon Mull. But it was more than just magic, it had a moral and some very good discussion points that my daughter and I talked about after we finished. This book and its sequel were ones that you WANT to read with your kids. And both of us are waiting for the Book 3!
And as they venture Fablehaven, they discover creatures and beautiful places but unfortunately set free a force of evil.It’s been actually three years since I set the space in my bookshelf for this book.
A hint after hint is a good way of a better acceptance for a reader to immediately sink in the concept.Since I can’t say other words toward how I’m amazed with this book.
Mull quite did an impressive way of showing his fairies without further modification of the creature and even brushing a slight touch of love story.
I would highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys fantasy books with mythological creatures, especially dark creatures. There was one scene that gave me goosebumps, and books don't scare me easily. I can't wait to read more!
I love Fablehaven.
