https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1332179.Miss_Silver_Deals_With_Death
This series with super-sleuth Miss Silvers has always interested me – and it is only getting better with each book.Again, there is a large cast of characters as the bulk of the story takes place in a large 4-storey mansion that has been converted into 8 flats.
Within this mansion, there will be blackmail, there will be death and there will be a houseful of potential perpetrators of those crimes.Although the police are definitely competent and excellent with interviews, it is Miss Silver who always looks below the surface and talks to people on a different level.
Patricia Wentworth began her writing career in the category-romance field, as we'd say today, so that attitude pervades her later, and far better, series-mystery output.Still...Meade Underwood, the female romanticist, and her Giles are awkwardly dropped when Miss Silver begins her delvings into the lives of the twenty or so inhabitants of Vandeleur House.
It's a formula, an evergreen one, but really now Author Wentworth you are far too skilled a writer to resort to suchlike tomfoolery!But this read is a decent one, the usual apposite descriptions and pithy aperçus abounding, and characters made so real you can see their shadows by your reading-light.
(I'm morally certain of this but cannot prove it.)A pleasure read.
Pleasurable reading.
Pleasurable reading.
The beginning of Maudie and Frank, still....
Bring a note card.I adore Miss Silver : a Victorian styled governess, now retired into the comfortable life of a private inquires agent, in the middle of WWII.
This is her first encounter with the dear Frank Abbot.
BRING A NOTE CARD!
There are so many people living in the building that is is a little hard to keep track of who is who and doing what.
It has more twists and turns than the building's staircase.
When all is said and done Miss Silver has knitted out a solution and won the hearts of those involved.
Another wonderful Miss Silver mystery. Patricia Wentworth has become one of my favorite mystery writers. Miss Silver is a fabulous private investigator. She figures in each book, but the other characters are so well developed that one almost forgets her until she makes her most propitious entrance and solves the mystery.
Miss Silver Deals With Death (Miss Silver #6), Patricia Wentworth
This was the best of the Miss Silver mysteries so far. I've enjoyed them all, but this one was particularly good, with its plethora of characters and suspects. All the characters were well drawn, the protagonist (Meade Underwood) wasn't too much of a ditz (as a couple of protagonists in the previous books in the series were). There were lovely red herrings galore, amusing references to those wretched murder mysteries that make the cops look bad, and Miss Silver herself, winning admiration and producing astonishment everywhere she goes.
Another competent cozy set during WWII, with not one but two ingenues, blackmail, many double identities, amnesia, and of course the bullish Chief Inspector Lamb, his urbane u Serling Abbot, and the mild-mannered spinster detective Miss Silver. The war only intrudes as ration coupons, military ranks, and blackout curtains, but English society from top to bottom all get a cameo.
One evening Meade is on her way home after running errands for her aunt when she runs into Giles.
Their courtship had been a short one, so all memory of Meade and their engagement are gone.As Meade and Giles start to get to know one another again, the secrets in Vandeleur house start trickling out.
Hot on the trail of the blackmailer, Miss Silver manages to uncover all of the secrets lurking behind the closed doors of Vandeleur house....including the identity of the murderer!Miss Silver is good comfort, cozy reading.
I enjoyed the way Wentworth handled her characters and let us in on the secrets behind the flat doors.
Maybe that's why there's so little in the way of actual violence--the reading public didn't need more.I did agree with the police inspector in charge, that there are too many threads in this particular web, too many people who coulda dunnit.
Instead of a house-party, we have a houseful--a block of flats where many people just sort of wander in an out, listening at each other's doors, and everyone has access to everyone else's doorkey.
The wrap is a bit convenient, but aren't they always?(I see the original title was "Miss Silver Intervenes" which is if anything less engaging than the title I read it under.)
It is interesting to see the early stages of relationships between Miss Silver and the police inspectors who apparently (from reading about the series that I have done) populate at least most of her books.
Wentworth provides a sense of Britain at the time her books are set (1930's and 40's.) Other Goodreads people compare Wentworth to Christie, whom I have not read in years but have unfortunately had my interest in her a bit jaded by the Miss Marples on BBC series.
It's 1941, the one of the residents of Vandeleur House is being blackmailed, and cannot quite make up their mind to employ Miss Silver, but when a murder occurs Miss Silver moves in to determine from the many suspects who the murderer is.An enjoyable read and a decent mystery.
Another 5 Stars!I have been truly enjoying “The Miss Silver Mysteries. So far I’ve read six of her books. The pacing is so fast and the book is so good, that the mystery is solved before you exhale.
My first Miss Silver; such twinkly gentle fun. I'm gonna be hunting down more of these.
Meade Underwood is in mourning due to the death of her fiancé that is until she runs into him in London and he has no memory of her.Every woman over the age of 30 in the book had the same response I would have had (that he was faking) but this is Patricia Wentworth and, of course, Garth sincerely can't remember her but is in true romantic hero style deeply attracted.
I first read this book as a teenager and identified with the Meade-Garth romance.
This one was more interesting than #4. This is book #6. An apartment consisting of 8 flats where different kinds of people live....some single old people, some married couples, some mothers and daughter, some well off people, and some struggling to get by. Someone living in these flats is a blackmailer and some living in these flats are paying the blackmailer. Then a young, beautiful tenant is found murdered...is she the blackmailer or was she being blackmailed? Not a page-turner but still an interesting mystery.
"...This talk of supermen and superwomen always seems to me to be rather impious. We are endowed with certain faculties by our Creator, and it is our duty to make good use of them. I have a retentive memory, I am naturally observant, and I was trained in habits of industry."Another twisty tail of the inimitable Miss Silver and I loved every word of it! Since this is my current addiction, I'm on to the next in the series RIGHT NOW!
Another early book with the moral-and-dull heroine who spends lots of time being pale and anxious and evoking feelings of protection in various male characters due to her pale paleness. At least Meade has an excuse, since she is both suffering from trauma and grieving the death of someone she loved. The rest of the mystery is so-so, really not one of my favourites, but I think it perhaps looks worse by comparison with the later ones where the characters are more interesting and varied.
In general I tend not to like the more "espionage"/secret society mysteries of either Agatha Christie or Patricia Wentworth. I think Wentworth is much better at delineating character and setting than in plots involving spies etc so ...On the other hand, I love that her mysteries have such a strong sense of time and place and in this one I really liked the secondary romance of Agnes Lemming :)
Not my cup of tea. Intricate plot, but no interest in individual characters for my part. If I am in a mystery where there is a lot of information that I the reader do not know, I need to feel engaged in individual characters, in order to care about the outcome.
Several residents of a mansion turned into apartments are being blackmailed. Then one ends up dead. Then another does, too. Miss Silver eliminates the innocents and discovers the guilty party. A good read.
Miss Silver wins again!This is an early Miss Silver mystery. She and Frank are still getting acquainted. Excellent story with one exception; Giles' amnesia doesn't ring true. With that said, I found this story as enjoyable as all the Miss Silver stories.
The solution to the mystery hinges on some "outside knowledge" that is only partially explained to the reader, but the intersection of overlapping plots is so intriguing that the whole hangs together quite nicely.
Very good old fashion mysteryThis was my first Miss Silver mystery and I enjoyed it. I can see why some people compare her to Miss Marple. She is similar in many ways. This mystery started a little slow but turned out to be a interesting tale of blackmail and murder.
I love the romance in this. A reunion with amnesia.
If you like Miss Marple, you'll love Miss Silver.
One of the best in this series!
Outstanding mystery. Great character development. Great atmosphere.
Love Miss Silver books!Miss Silver books are always satisfying. Great storytelling, wonderful characters, great sense of place and time. I always look forward to the next one.
3.5
I love the Miss Silver books, and found this one to be very good and enjoyable.
