https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2033352.Frelseren
Χωρίς στοιχεία,χωρίς κίνητρα,χωρίς αποδείξεις οδηγείται μαθηματικά σε αδιέξοδο.Το κυρίαρχο σκοτάδι στην ιστορια πέφτει απο τη στιγμή που ο δολοφόνος κυκλοφορεί με πλαστά στοιχεία!Σιγά σιγά αλλα καθόλου κουραστικά το κουβάρι αρχίζει να ξετυλίγεται με απρόσμενες εξελίξεις!Οι αναφορές του συγγραφέα στις βαλκανικές πολεμικές αναταραχές και στις συνέπειες αυτών με έμφαση στους πρόσφυγες,τα ναρκωτικά που εξαθλιώνουν,τη φτώχεια και την παρακμή κάποιων ανθρώπων μας εμπλέκουν συναισθηματικά σε ενα παιχνίδι συνείδησης και αξιών.Ο δολοφόνος ειναι ένας παράξενα θαυμαστός χαρακτήρας πιστός και αφιερωμένος σε αξίες και ιδεώδη που εχει και ειναι ορκισμένος ψυχικά με φόρο τιμής να πληρώσει ,να ξεπληρώσει,να ΛΥΤΡΩΣΕΙ στο παρόν του ότι δεν κατάφερε στο παρελθόν του!Απο την αλλη πλευρά βρίσκονται τα θύματα - θύτες υπεράνω υποψίας αλλα και υπεράνω οποιασδήποτε αξιας και τιμής αφού γίνονται έρμαια των παθών τους υλικών και μη!Στο τελος η ΛΥΤΡΩΣΗ έρχεται τόσο ανατρεπτικά και απρόσμενα αλλα και τόσο τέλεια μελετημένα με οδηγό και πρωτοπόρο τον λατρεμένο και αντισυμβατικό Χάρι Χολε!
The English-speaking publication industry has destroyed Jo Nesbo's fantastic Harry Hole (pronounced "Hula" like Hula Hoop) series, not only by omitting the first two books in this series by starting it on the third book (The Redbreast), but also by switching the order of a few books in the series.
Not only is this book the only one missing from this series at my local library, but it is also missing from the libraries in nearby counties as well as in e-book downloads.
I'm too excited and can't wait to start on the next one.
‘Which leads us back to the reason for my being here, I’m afraid.’”An attractive woman in a snappy, Salvation Army uniform who references the main character of the cult classic Perfume would turn the head of any man of discerning taste, but for a lonely man like Harry Hole, it is like seeing an unexpected blue haze of water in the middle of the Sahara desert.
Harry’s mind just continues to refine what he knows, sets aside what is confusing, until finally the facts become incontestable.And the new partner assigned to Harry learns very quickly to just let him work and not to try to keep up with the jumps in logic.
At the beginning of the book, he starts off with a scene I understand and then follows it up by jumping around to a bunch of seemingly unrelated scenes.
I am hoping some of you out there understand what I am saying about good confusion vs.
So, it is worth all of the confusion to get there.Side note: I got a chance to read this whole book in under 24 hours on a business road trip for work.
The confusing jumping around was causing me to lose interest and I kept checking how much time was left.
In this case, our hero Harry Hole has to deal with whether he is willing to assume the role of “redeemer”, which by one definition is “a person who brings goodness, honor, etc., to something again.”The book starts with the rape of a 14-year old girl at a Salvation Army summer camp.
Harry Hole is working on the death of a heroin addict when the case comes up, which involves him already familiarizing himself with the wonderful work of the Salvation Army in serving these folks.
In the sixth novel from the Harry Hole series, Nesbø adds a slight religious flavour to the story, with strong symbolism throughout.
Harry Hole leads the investigation, though there is little on which to act, except a description that includes a red neckerchief.
Heading to Croatia to tie up some loose ends in the form of clues, Hole realises that Stankic is being handled by his mother.
Nesbø fascinates his readers yet again with this explosive tale.The Hole series finds new and impressive ways to get better with each story.
Ο άνθρωπος που πέφτει νεκρός δεν ειναι ο στόχος και οταν το αντιλαμβάνεται ο δολοφόνος αρχίζει όλη η πλοκή να γινεται ανεξάντλητα ενδιαφέρουσα.Ο Χολε ξεκινάει την έρευνα απο το μηδέν.
In the capable hands of a talented writer like Nesbo, though, the dichotomy is explored and mined for all its worth, and we see roles reversed and twists and turns revealed in an exciting and fast moving thriller.Hole and his dysfunctional Oslo detectives are on the trail of an execution in broad daylight of a Salvation Army soldier when the trail gets deep into international crime and hidden secrets.
As the story opens, it's 1991 and the 14-year-old daughter of a high official in the Norwegian Salvation Army is raped by someone she knows.
Fast forward a dozen years and the "Little Redeemer" - now a hitman for hire - goes to Norway and kills Robert Karlsen, a respected young member of the Norwegian Salvation Army.
A great deal of the book involves the hitman chasing Jon Karlsen and Hole's team chasing the killer.
Hole develops a relationship with the pretty Salvation Army worker, Martine, who was raped at the beginning of the book.
Δυνατός, ανατρεπτικός και καυστικός Jo Nesbo, μου άρεσε πολύ και πάω με βήμα ταχύ για τον "Χιονάνθρωπο".
Τα λόγια είναι ενός ζητιάνου που απαντά στον Χόλε όταν τον ρωτά ποιες είναι οι σπουδαίες πράξεις στη ζωή.«Η ελεημοσύνη.
Η Βίβλος δεν μιλά για τίποτα άλλο.
Όμως, βέβαια, τους Φαρισαίους συμφέρει να αναλύουν δημοσίως τις υποσημειώσεις, αντί να διδάσκουν, αλλά και να κάνουν πράξη την αρχή για την οποία η Βίβλος δεν μας αφήνει καμία αμφιβολία: Πρέπει να δίνεις τα μισά απ´όσα έχεις σε κάποιον που δεν έχει τίποτα.
Άνθρωποι πεθαίνουν κατά χιλιάδες καθημερινά χωρίς να ακούσουν τον λόγο του Θεού, επειδή οι χριστιανοί δεν θέλουν να απαρνηθούν τα επίγεια αγαθά τους.» http://anotherlookforyou.blogspot.com...
Number six in the Harry Hole series and another fantastic book from Jo Nesbø.
However it soon became clear that there was a good reason for this and it certainly helped to prolong the sense of mystery.
Harry is his usual self, smarter than the average cop, always refusing to bow down to authority and in a constant battle with alcoholism.
The story is gripping and it is almost impossible to guess what will happen next.I found it to be a really great read and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good, gritty police thriller.
Here's the thing about the recent popularity of Scandinavian writers and if you're a Nordic Thriller aficionado you couldn't care less about the distinction: the novels are depressed, somber, filled with ennui, a lack of humor, with flawed characters if not suffused with a strong tendency towards determinism; in short, whether you're reading Stieg Larsson, Henning Mankell, or Jo Nesbo you are likely reading Literary Naturalism.
as Hoo-leh) near as much as "our Harry." But then, I'm not sure anyone loves and enjoys Nesbo's writing and his character Harry Hole, as much as "our Harry." (Harry Roolaart is from the Netherlands and he IS cosmopolitan.
Other than that, please take a look at Harry's review...it's thoughtful and articulate and you can read the admiration Harry has for Jo Nesbo and his character, Harry Hole.
But from the names in Nesbo's books, I can't tell if the person introduced is a man or woman.
حسناً..الآن استطيع القول إنني تعرفت على طريقة " جو نيسبو" في كتابة رواياته البوليسية حيث يبتدأها بمش
Ρυθμοί ταχύτατοι, ανατροπές καταιγιστικές, συναισθήματα ανατρεπομενα, η τελευταία σκηνή αποκαλυψη-σοκ-θυμός-απογοήτευση....Το καλύτερο βιβλίο του Νεσμπο που'χω διαβάσει....τολμώ να πω απ τα καλύτερα αστυνομικά!χαίρομαι πολύ που δεν τον παράτησα μετά την προηγούμενη απογοήτευση.. υ.γ. Χόλε είσαι ο αντιηρωας της καρδιάς μας❤
Mystery stories are always grounded in some level of manipulation by the author.
A virtual army of murder suspects mysteriously comes into focus in the background, one at a time.
All this is the stuff of the traditional parlor mystery and locked-room puzzles parodied in the board game Clue (Colonel Mustard was found with Mr. Boddy in the Library, but Professor Plum did it with the Candlestick in the Dining Room).In a well-crafted mystery, outright manipulation of this sort is kept to a discreet minimum, so that the reader doesn’t feel badly used.
The story becomes virtually unwieldy, with seemingly unrelated murder mysteries intersecting in suspect ways and too many characters turning out to be dramatically different from the ways they were first portrayed.
αλήθεια πολύ καλό παιδιά. Δεν έχω διαβάσει και πολύ Nesbo και αυτό μου το πρότειναν ως το καλύτερο του. Απαξιώ ως προς την επαλήθευση.πραγματικά έντονο, διεξοδικό, περιγραφικό, ανατρεπτικό και πολλά άλλα. Να το διαβάσετε όσοι αγαπάτε τα βιβλία. δεν συρρικνωνεται σε κατηγοριοποίηση. είναι απλά πολυυυ καλό.
المنقذ - جو نيسبو هذه الرواية عن قاتل مأجور، واتحاد الرعاية الإجتماعيّة في النرويج، ومعتل إجتماعي وحرب البلقان، والعنف والفساد وطبعًا هاري هول ....حبكة متماسكة وممتازة وأحداث غير متوقعة، وشخصيات معقّدة وبعض المفاجآت .كانت هذه أفضل رواية أقرؤها لـ جو نيسبو ..
Add to it the Christmas spirit and religious symbolism - forgiveness, redemption and suffering and Nesbo delivers a cracker of mystery that is both fast paced and intelligent.It all starts with a rape.
Fast forward to the present where a Salvation Army member is murdered in public and Harry with his team leads the investigation.
The non-core part of the new boss and exchanges and attempts to tame Harry was fun.
We see a more mature Harry who is not just a lone wolf, who also decides to groom youngsters in his team.
Convoluted. Pacy. Wonderful The plot twists are mesmerising - I was wrong footed on so many occasions. I know that this is stagecraft and in part contrived but it was enjoyable all the same.Well worth a read
1.99 Kindle Special. 12/18/16Good series. May be his best.
Harry has matured, changed, but he still pulls the rabbit out. The plots are more complex, but they are trackable. Unnecessary suspense is avoided, but pages of useless stuff still get in the way. The philosophy is deep, and the insights ring true. I can’t wait to start the next book.
Harry Hole, Oslo police inspector, has a new tricky, multi-faceted deadly mystery in the sixth novel in the Harry Hole detective series, ‘The Redeemer’.
(hide spoiler)]We all know the most vicious killers all over the world tend to be religious fundamentalists who have been raised with a lot of ‘corrective’ beatings based on religious teachings, most often involving matters of sexuality, which often leads to damaged self-hating adults.
Extremist and evangelical Christians - and Muslims - appear to prefer creating punitive murderous psychotics in their family rather than recognize various aspects of human sexuality exist.
(view spoiler)[ Can anyone explain why the war killer liked to wear urinal cakes?
Harry Hole gets involved with this case when a murder occurs at a Salvation Army Christmas concert. This was a complicated story that began years before during a time of war in Croatia. I had the wrong guy picked for the perpetrator until very near the end so I was surprised to find my theory was dead wrong. Harry is still battling alcohol, as always, and there is a change in command at the Oslo police department, so Harry has a new boss. Not my favorite book in the Harry Hole series, but it was still really good.
Great twist and revelation at the end.
Just like in The Snowman, there are instances where the case is thought to be solved but then there are more revelations and twists.
I wonder whether this is Nesbo's formula.
The salvation army setting was interesting.
I liked the way the book began with the account of life in a salvation army camp from the point of view of a girl who is waking up to her sexuality.
The life of the assassin on the run was also quite entertaining.
Nobody does that like Thomas Harris.
I'm done with Nesbo for now.
The Redeemer is book six in the Harry Hole series by Jo Nesbo.
Detective Harry Hole caught the case.
The readers of The Redeemer will go on a rollercoaster ride with Detective Harry Hole to find the killer.
Sometimes I find books that are translator lose the original plot of the story.
The way Jo Nesbo puts the twists and turns in the plot throughout The Redeemer ensures you are glued to your chair.The readers of The Redeemer will learn about the Salvation Army in Norway.
Also, the readers of The Redeemer will learn about law enforcement procedures in Norway.
Bravo Nesbo! Bravo!Best installment in the series, and I have a feeling it will get better and better as we read on.This book was full of twists, suspense and emotions.In true Nesbo form, you keep changing your mind about who is the guilty party, who is the victim, the motives... and on the way, you get a spoonful of dilemmas and heartache.Can’t wait for the next book in the series!Thank you my darling Lena and Sofia for another great BR xox
The Author Jo Nesbo does a wonderful job in this book with his incredible observation, not only of people with their thoughts and feelings making all characters seem so very real, but also about every day life and little things in general.
Other nice touches to Harry's character, he is, his own man, clearly likes women, well read and he has his love of music and films.
For all books that I've read so far in this series, the stories are fascinating to read, constantly moving forward and the plots interwoven with smaller stories throughout bringing in the old and new characters along the way keeping everything fresh with the right pace, suspense, tension and interest.
This kept me guessing the whole time and was an exciting read. There are FREQUENT perspective shifts that I didn't always catch, but that was my only issue.
