https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70241.Crash
*****WARNING THIS IS A GRAPHIC ADULT REVIEW NO KIDDIES PLEASE.*****”I knew that Vaughan could never really die in a car-crash, but would in some way be re-born through those twisted radiator grilles and cascading windshield glass.
A head on crash that kills the driver of the other car putting both Ballard and the wife of the dead man in the hospital for a lengthy recovery.
Ballard has always had symphorophilia or car-crashsexual fetishism, but after his crash and meeting Vaughan it becomes more than just an obsession, but a full time addiction.
Two cars with Kansas tags slowed down to look at me, but didn’t stop.
It describes the tendency of the story's main car-cash fetishist weirdo, Vaughan, to repeat, obsess and raise the (roll)bar of kink on his over-the-top fantasies: "Always he deliberately sidestepped into self-parody."This is the kind of book that spawns tiresome academic dissertations on alienation, sexuality and technology in the modern/postmodern world and the evolutionary merger of the biological and the inorganic and such, and no doubt causes the Ballard cultists to circle the wagons; so me pointing out its ludicrousness probably steps on some sacred cows and brands me a Philistine.
Not a novel really—see it as an extended erotic poem instead.
It’s a cool experience, & fantastically odd; it’s a journey of infatuation into the erotic element inherent in all car crashes.
Like a dada experiment with clashing ideas and absurd pop symbols, everything is sensuous, even human defects are seen through a wholly unique filter, in sharp contrast with the immaculate beauty of the automobile.
Sex, like driving, has plenty of potential energy that's stored up—the want for a release is, then, the only viable option.
Death is seen as the ultimate goal, as the final & most amazing of all orgasms.
It's the ultimate fetishist novel.
The edition I read came with an introduction by the author in which he wrote:...we live in a world ruled by fictions of every kind - mass-merchandizing, advertising, politics conducted as a branch of advertising, the pre-empting of any original response to experience by the television screen.
Our daily reality is deeply weird, and weirdest of all we never notice it unless jolted by a sudden crash, forcing us to see life from a different perspective.In Ballard's case this came from his wartime experience in Shanghai described in Empire of the Sun when a middle class, colonial childhood was turned upside down by a war which revealed the artificiality of daily life.
Not that I’m a bad driver, actually I’m an excellent driver which really means I drive like a sloth.
And as opposed to Ballard’s autoperverts the closest I’ve actually come to getting a boner in the car is when I strap on my seatbelt.
From the rear end of luxury cars to the rack of the wilder trucks, it seems like an autopervert’s wetdream, might as well call it Fifty Shades of Gear.
If you’re looking for cars, better to google “cars”.
If you’re looking for a combination of the two, better to buy a car-shaped vibrator.
Before going any further, I need to note that I love the way Ballard writes; while the end of the book somewhat tails off in my opinion, the sh!t this guy comes up with and the way he works each word to his own unfathomable ends is a delight to read.
Considering that a great deal of this book centers almost exclusively on esoteric automobile components and body parts you’ve never heard your mother mention, Ballard finds a way to pick it up and put it to bed without the least difficulty, somehow leaving the reader anxious to discover how the characters are going to copulate with/in a vehicle and indelibly mark it with their own vile secretions during their next perverse endeavor.
I know this avant-garde novel is supposed have opened up brave new vistas in dystopian fiction, by "boldly going where no man has gone before".
The courage of J.
G. Ballard has to be admired the way he links violent death with sex: his narrative structuring is exemplary.
I did not finish it.So I will have to give this a miserable one-star rating.
The only thing is, the reactions these type of novels create are highly subjective: so should it prove to be your cup of tea, it may even come up with five stars.
Reading this book wore me out.
I like Ballard, I think he's a writer who really gets technology, modernity, isolation, etc., and I'm pretty non-judgmental about even sort of far-out fetishes, but what kept flashing through my brain was GRATUITOUS GRATUITOUS WHEN WILL THIS BOOK END ARRGH.
In much the same way that there are only so many words for various parts of the human anatomy (and, dear lord, if I see the words "groin" or "pubis" again in my lifetime it will be too soon), maybe there are only a fixed number of ways of looking at a car crash.
Clinical hands on the flesh equipment and contrasting assured movements on the machines that could be made to do the ass on the photocopy machine effect of I know exactly what I want it to expose and let's reenact this until it's all the way up in there.The problem with reenacting and trying to get some desired effect is it can be too actor moving stage right to stage left.
But I am Mariel and I haven't thought about Vaughn or Ballard (the Crash Ballard character) or Caroline or the others since reading until now when I'm writing my book review and if I don't think about them then they aren't ghosts.
Uh, I’m pretty sure it’s a metaphor.Just kidding.I never read reviews of a book I’m about to gobble or have just finished, lest they unduly influence my perception.
Crash is brilliant—a hammering, cold meditation on death strung around the leitmotif of auto-erotica (literally; cars and sex).
If I’m onto anything, it’s that Crash uses the symbol of the car less as commentary on technology (as every book blurb ever will insist) than as a ‘vehicle’ to analyze the human peculiarity of the death-fixation.
The characters in the book are all deeply-damaged people, nominally due to car crashes.
“Two months before my accident, during a journey to Paris, I had become so excited by the conjunction of an air hostess's fawn gaberdine skirt on the escalator in front of me and the distant fuselages of the aircraft, each inclined like a silver penis towards her natal cleft, that I had involuntarily touched her left buttock.” Say whaaat??!! Honestly, what the hell is this book I just read? What was the author smoking when he was writing it? (And where can I get some?). I have to say this is on
Honestly, what the hell is this book I just read?
If that makes no sense then I have just summed up the book from my perspective.According to Wikipedia Crash is about “symphorophilia”, basically getting turned on by watching disasters like fire and traffic accidents.
More specifically the characters in this book find car accidents "hot".
That is all very well but it makes it very hard to be invested in the narrative and reading the book is something of a slog in spite of the interesting ideas.
The gaping wounds would be their new orifices, their indulgence into a sexual act that required neither love nor intimacy, but a mingling of chrome, blood, pale bodily secretions and a shared acknowledgment of the simultaneous collision of cars and bodies, uniting them in a ritual of carnality in the act of death.Thus begins the weirdest novel I have ever read, and a highly controversial one, especially following Ballard’s real-life car-crash post-publication, a morbid symphorophilian tale of the fusion of ‘meat’ and metal, unlike anything Gibson could have ever imagined.
Credit to J.G. though for having the balls, guts and all the rest of it to write something of this nature where many would look at this as a piece of attention seeking soft porn, I am not one of them, as believe it or not look beyond the car parts, body parts, twisted minds, and there is a deep underlying message concerning the human psyche, our need for experimentation and those who choose to engage in experiencing alternative ways to find the ultimate high.
Liked or loathed it's not easy to forget.
Less of a conventional narrative arc-based novel and more of an exercise in rhythm and repetition of key phrases and imagery, Crash is not pleasurable reading.
It is extremely challenging, primarily owing to the graphic sex and violence, but also due to the clinical language Ballard employs to disengage the reader from the characters and their actions.
The sex is robotic.
Although its litanic abjection at times reminded me of Bataille's L'Histoire De l'Oeil, Crash reads less like a work of fiction and more like a commission report.
Turns out reading this important, "auto-erotic" novel in a moving car does not actually heighten the experience. In a twist of irony, the car makes me infinitely more sick than this sly book ever could alone. Reading while driving does make the "crash" part a lot easier, however.
I'll just say that all the motifs of Ballard are here, and they are presented with crystal clear precision, with touches of what I'd call industrial surrealism.Some people find the book a little cold and detached -- but that's the whole point -- Ballard is not a Garcia Marquez, he's not painting a romantic picture full of pastels(I'm not knocking magical surrealism, nor pastels).
Let me put it this way: if van Gogh & Garcia Marquez have similar styles - bright colors, rustic locales, than Ballard & Dali have similar styles - mechanical eroticisms, strange juxtapositions.To understand Ballard you can't approach him thinking you're going to read something in the traditional "belles-lettres" sense...
This pornographic novel is sickening and pointless even if it delves on a medical condition called symphorophilia or being sexually aroused by being part or witnessing car-crash incidents.
All the characters in this novel are either crippled or with scars because of having participated in intentional or simulated car crashes.I've heard it many times that men with small penis tend to own big and expensive cars.
However, in this novel (first published in 1973), crashed cars and sex are both required to make its characters happy.
Vaughan leads the characters who has this obsession for the actress Elizabeth Taylor.
But in a time when we've seen technology and sex combine in myriad ways, and books like 50 Shades of Grey are being read by middle-aged women on the beach (not that I find that shocking, either, but I'm sure they would've in the '70s), it doesn't feel stunning, or for that matter, correct.Ballard was right about the isolating effect technology has had on sex, and computers, like the cars in Crash, do serve as a vessel.
Vaughan è continuamente sintonizzato sulle frequenze della polizia e delle ambulanze, quasi ubiquo, appena si verifica un incidente riesce a materializzarsi su rampe d’accesso, raccordi autostradali, rondò o intersezioni di vie e come un invasato invadente e irrispettoso del dolore altrui comincia forsennato a scattare, fotografare, zoomare i resti di grovigli di lamiere di auto che hanno impattato.Vuole cogliere l’istante che precede la morte del conducente o del suo passeggero, fissare su lastra quella smorfia di terrore e ingrandirlo cinque metri per due sulla parete di casa, mostrare quell’arto strappato ed espulso a metri dall’abitacolo, la fragilità di quel lembo di pelle sanguinolenta che penzola ancora attaccata per un filo allo zigomo, lo sfondamento violento del torace contro il parabrezza.Scene che lo fanno tremare di eccitazione (ma!) Nella sua mente, vedeva così il mondo intero morire in un disastro automobilistico simultaneo: milioni di veicoli lanciati l'uno contro l'altro La morte per incidente automobilistico diventa atto che nobilita e riscatta l’individuo da una esistenza mediocre e gli concede una fine quasi eroica.Modo per esorcizzare la morte?
Burroughs and Chuck Palahniuk, as well as perhaps Bret Easton Ellis, but while Naked Lunch could likely have been influential, and both Fight Club and American Psycho might have been influenced by Crash in one way or another, none really hit the same chord.
With this book you get a sense of unraveling and a journey towards chaos, but at the same time it is an unavoidable destiny, not the helter-skelter hellish meandering of the aforementioned Naked Lunch.
Ballard is showing a disconnection and callousness between people with the intertwining of our lives with technology, in this way perhaps his book, being published in 1973, was prophetic.
Bizarnost ovog romana je fascinantna, kao i količina morbidnosti na nekih dvesta i kusur stranica.
Doživljaj prilikom čitanja može se opisati kao izuzetno neprijatno, uznemirujuće iskustvo.
Osnova radnje je fetiš, opsesija dovedena do tačke apsurda u kojoj postaje tragična zbog svoje ispraznosti.
Pisac kaže da je Sudar opominjuća metafora odnosa čoveka prema tehnologiji.
Efekat šoka je nameran i sračunat da upornim čitaocima sa dobrim nervima i stomakom (:-)) priča ostane u dugom i nezaboravnom sećanju.
I sve to sa slojevima, koji se izbistre pošto se mulj čitanja istaloži.
Da, idemo ka transhumanizmu.
I još veća jer se tu ništa ne može promeniti.
The word "semen" appears in this novel 61 times."Blood" appears 78 times."Vomit", 11 times."Mucus", 8 times."Excrement", thrice.and "Smegma", twice.That's really all you need to know about this novel. Oh, and it's about a bunch of people who get off during car crashes. In case you couldn't guess from all the semen.
Instead, go into this preparing to be hammered with imagery of sex, death, and automobiles, all in vicious technicolour detail.The narrator (unusually and somewhat trippily named Ballard) finds himself in a horrifying car crash one day.
From here on out, Ballard and Helen find themselves sucked into the nightmareish world of Vaughan, a deluded and obsessive afficionado of car crashes, and meet through him a strange cast of characters who find the idea of the car crash (and the mutilated bodies of passengers left behind) incredibly stimulating, even arousing.This book is meant to shock, and I imagine that it does shock a lot of people.
It's a book about car crashes and sexual climax, but its strangely devoid of movement.
Instead we get the book's climax in chapter one, and then Ballard smokes cigarettes while showing off pictures of alternating gore and porn for another hundred and fifty pages until we end up where we started.I use the word "phantasmagoria" to describe Crash, and for good reason.
The pictures will affect you, and Ballard is a skillful writer such that he can subvert the defenses of a mind conditioned to gruesome things.
Is a whole book full of car-sex by nature more powerful that a single scene steadily worked towards?
This book is not for those boring morons who live their comfortable lives oblivious of the sheer delight of Taking it to Limit.
Which is what Ballard does.
He walks on the edge of what literature is.
Let me declare this - you can't understand how fantastic life is until you walk toward the edge of that cliff.
Until you push yourself so far that you feel like Death.
Ballard is an original and will never be imitated or bettered.
In those days they weren't afraid of a book that pushed the boundaries.
So much of today's culture feels like pulp compared to CRASH.
“The long triangular grooves on the car had been formed within the death of an unknown creature, its vanished identity abstracted in terms of the geometry of this vehicle.
And J.G. Ballard is Marquis de Sade of the motorized century.The novel seemed to me a bit too pathological.“Their bare thighs modulated the panels of pastel vinyl; the deep-cone speakers recapitulated the contours of their sharp breasts.
This anthology of wrists and elbow, thigh and pubis formed ever-changing marriages with the contours of the automobile.”Starting with an apple of paradise with the progress of civilization forbidden fruits are turning yet stranger with every new century.
Hey, everybody, look! Sex! And violence! And more sex! And more violence! And loving detail to all of this! And cars! Sex and violence and cars! Look, semen and blood! Hey, everybody, look at me! Machines are bad, guys, they really are!How boring. I really should stop.
I wanted something wild and unpredictable and I was served.While I still believe HIGH-RISE is J.G Ballard's immortal novel, mixing sex and car crashes wasn't a bad idea at all.
It's extremely pornographic for 2018's literary standards, so I can only imagine catholic priests running after Ballard with blow torches when it came out, so they could let the devil out of him.
Yes, it was prescient of modernity and the commodification of relationships, but...
you know...
That and a lot of dirty, dirty sex.Great.
Doesn't overstay its welcome at 205 pages, but requires a strong stomach.
Стартира обещаващо и пропусна да се развие и превърне в нещо запомнящо се.
This and The Atrocity Exhibition are two of my favourite books, precisely because of their weirdness, because they showed the teenage me that something surprising and original could be done with the novel form beyond the staid and traditional forms foisted upon us as A level English students.
In addition, the clinical descriptions and the absence of affect in the narrator (partly, I think, the fortuitous result of Ballard's medical training) lend the books an eerie detachment, a reductio ad absurdum of the blasé attitude identified by Georg Simmel as a psychological by-product/coping mechanism of modernity.
Ballard demonstrates beautifully how this blasé attitude, when taken to its logical conclusion - as required by postmodernity (or hypermodernity) - ultimately results in nihilism.
