https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24359968-the-accursed-kings-series-books-1-3
I am so positively surprised by this book! I don't know exactly what I've expected, but I got so much more! First of all, I thought this is a fantasy novel - it is not - this is pure historical fiction based on real history of France. And you know what? This is so true that sometimes life is much more fascinating than fiction - games, schemes, secret plans and above all: LOVE, because it is a truth universally acknowledged that most conspiracies begin in bed ;)Oh! And everything starts with a Templar's curse!
I confess that I bought this book because of George RR Martin's saying that this series were the original 'Game of Thrones'.
(Still, I am anxiously waiting for the release of the final GOT books :) )I have bought the first book (The Iron King) in the original French and comparing some sections I have noticed that the English translation sometimes is not the best, awkward sentences and some strange renderings.
Just one little example, on the French version we read about the Templar attire, a white mantle with a the red cross and in the English it says it is a black cross: "..endosser le long manteau blanc à croix rouge ..." -> "..wearing the long white mantle with the black cross...".
History is a novel that has been lived.-- E & J de GoncourtThe France of 1314 is not a very safe place to live, for Kings, Queens, Courtiers, or Peasants.
The author, Maurice Druon, took an obscure, but important, time in Frence history and made a wonderful set of books based on it.
The "Iron King", King Philip IV, sends the Knights Templars to the stake.
The head Templar curses him "to the thirteenth generation of your line".
Well, he was right, the Kings sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren are all a problem - as these books show.
I had my Wikipedia open the whole time I was reading these books.
I read this interesting and beautifully written trilogy about the early ( 14th.
Century) kings of France in stages, one book at a time over a few months finishing it today.
All three books in the trilogy, three of a longer series, are worth reading for those readers who really enjoy historical fiction of a serious, as opposed to romantic, type.
These kings of France, and those who populate the Royal Court are not particularly likeable.
All were good.Recommended for lovers of history written in a way that illuminates a distant period, with interesting detail.
Outstanding trilogyThis is by far the best trilogy of history, that I have ever read in my life.
Being American born and raised, I do believe that if these accounts are found to be true and accurate, this should be mandatory reading for World History and English Literature classes in high school.
The characters are great, while you have all various types of personalities all politicking for their own personal agendas, you get to see the character flaws in each.
I find this a great teaching tool for all.
" What are you going to do with the power that you have?" , is the question that I asked my children as we read this trilogy.
This book based on the real historical facts and one day has inspired George Martin for his Games of Thrones.
As he said "those are real game of thrones!".And, IMHO, it is far better - more dramatical and unpredictable than any fictioan.
On my next visit to Paris after this book, I found that French history started to play with all its colours to me: now all those intrigues and palace secrets make much more sense to me ;)Was funny to discuss some historical anecdotes with our french guide, he was quite impressed and asked for the book title, where I have read all that ;)
I enjoyed The Iron King, but I didn't care for the way Druon just told me what his characters' motivations were instead of showing me.
But the way he writes Marguerite and Blanche, Marie de Cressay, and Clemence of Hungary is a bit dull.
Of course, one can argue that young woman of the time had few options, and marriage was generally it, so much of their attention would be focused on that aspect of their life, while older women--who presumably have married and had children--would begin to expand their interests and pay attention to other matters.
There's some justice in that, but the idea that none of the young women in the book see beyond the marital/romantic is disappointing.
I absolutely LOVE this series!!!!! Can't wait til book 5 comes out at the end of the month! I can see where Game of Thrones got their inspiration!
scandalous insight into the depths that people will go to gain or hold onto power, wealth and position. I guess nothing much has changed in that regard since the 14th century.
Like other reviewers, I was interested in this series because of George R.
I also enjoy medieval European history and, while I am more familiar with the English monarchy during this period, I knew nothing about Philip the Fair.
There are at least 3 different storylines - The Templars, the adulterous wives, and the Lombards - all key events in Philip the Fair's reign, but poorly connected in this novel.
I didn't understand how they were connected, or why the Templars or Lombards mattered to the central storyline at all.
Philip's throne was otherwise secure, so no political drama here.
In total there are 7 books in this series (although this image only shows books 1-3. George R R Martin says that these books were the inspiration for his Song of Ice and Fire. The books are based upon French history prior to the 100 years war, and it's easy to see the relationship between these books and 'Game of Thrones'. Not always easy going and I do wonder how much might have been lost in translation (the originals are in French). Definitely worth a try if you like history.
The French side of history is often avoided in the English speaking world. This historical series is a good beginning for Anglophiles in need of broadening their horizons to another point of view. French history also has its own series of tragedies, only occasionally offset by human kindness. While writing fiction, the author keeps narrowly to what we know of these 14th century events from direct sources (and copious footnotes).
Book 3 of the Accursed Kings Series was probably the most exciting. "The Poisoned Crown" is good and I can see where and how it would lead to Games of Thrones in idea. At this time I will not continue on with series I have some book club reads to catch up on. But the series is slow at the beginning gets very good, and if you thought English monarchy history was good the French is even more so.
I read the first book in the series, The Iron King, for my historical fiction book group. Philip the Fair was someone I had never heard of before. The Knights Templar feature prominently in this book as does Isabelle, Philip's daughter who is married to Edward II of England. At some point I plan to read the next book, The Strangled Queen.Recommended!
This series is amazing. Its puts a fictional frame around real events that runs up to the Hundred Years' War between France and England. It truly brings history alive and illustrates the inherent flaw in all hereditary monarchies.
Historical fiction has never been better. 14th century French politicking almost makes you wish you were born in a different era.
I finished the first book, "The Iron King", and really enjoyed it. I will be back to read the other two books this Autumn. Anyone who enjoys history & great storytelling, will love this series.
I love historical books... murders, intriques, betrayals... in this book you can find everything.
Learn all about 14th century French kings!
One of the best historical novels ever written. Only a few books make you really said when you realize you finished and you cannot follow your favorite characters' lives any longer
Decent story with simplistic writing.
The original GOT!
Znowuż nie potrafię być obiektywna.
Tym razem nie potrafię nie porównać tego do "Pieśni lodu i ognia".
To wszystko wina Martina i jego "to jest prawdziwa gra o tron", ja rozumiem że jego inspiracją była historia Kapetyngów i Plantagenetów i super, że mówi o tym otwarcie ale...
jak dla mnie Martin zwycięża.Nie powinnam porównywać tych dzieł, bo to wbrew wszystkiemu ale no..Po pierwsze (przynajmniej w pierwszym tomie) nie ma w ogóle fantastyki.
Odnosiłam wrażenie, że wszystko było opisane "po łebkach", akcja pędziła ale w negatywny sposób.
The Poisoned Crown follows the plot that results in Philip IV’s second son, Philippe, coming to the throne.
The entire series is overshadowed by the curse of the Knights Templar, who had lost their riches, status, and many of their lives under the rule of The Iron King, the curse of the Templar Grand Master as he died on the flaming pyre, watched by all of the city of Paris, the curse extending to King Philip IV and his successors for thirteen generations, even including the Pope who had approved the persecution of the Templars.
En gros, Une première trilogie qui, même si les trois premiers chapitres paraissent longs, nous happe dès que l'intrigue est lancée.
De là, tout s'enchaîne, se complique, et l'on retient son souffle à chaque page tant l'intrigue est géniale.
De plus, on ne peut qu'apprécier chaque ligne, chaque mot de cet auteur à la plume magique, qui nous transporte comme s'il avait inventé la langue française.
Sans compter que ce roman historique a une partie de réalisme qui nous apprend énormément de choses sur l'histoire de la royauté française dans les années 1300.
Ce livre est un sans-faute et je défie quiconque de lui trouver un défaut autre que...
"Królowie przeklęci. Tom I" to fantastycznie napisana historia. Pełna spisków, zdrad, namiętności, wojen i morderstw. Oszustwa, kłamstwa i usilne dążenie do władzy – to wszystko można w niej znaleźć. Wielowątkowość i mnogość postaci oraz piękny język powieści sprawiają, że trudno oderwać się od lektury. Książka została wydana starannie i pięknie, aż ręce same wyciągają się w jej stronę. Polecam gorąco wszystkim, nie tylko miłośnikom historii.Całość na: http://wiedzma-czyta.blogspot.com/201...
(4.5)Królowie przeklęci to nadzwyczajne, wspaniale napisane dzieło, które spodoba się każdemu miłośnikowi powieści historycznych - ręczę za to. Całkowicie odrywa od rzeczywistości i przenosi czytelnika do innej epoki. Jego niepowtarzalny klimat wywarł na mnie ogromne wrażenie, a świadomość, że wszystkie te intrygi miały miejsce naprawdę, była niesamowita. Polecam wszystkim zaznajomionych z gatunkiem, jak i tym chcącym dopiero poznać jego genialność.
Read the first 3 books in this historical fiction, wow, talk about confusing...the period is the 14th century, which covers the Kings and kingdoms of Mainly France and Italy and Great British, so many characters and families all trying to outdo each other. I hung in there and hooked just enough that I just ordered Book 4.
Seriously? I just quite reading it with 100 pages to go. The fact that George Martin endorsed these books as like Game of Thrones is laughable. Not even close, George. So much history I felt like I went to school every night. Just ridiculously dry. I liked, not loved, Book one of series but book two, wow- BAD. Miss it
Fenomenalna literatura! Autor barwnie opowiedział fascynującą historię Francji okraszając ją ogromną dbałością o szczegóły oraz bohaterami z krwi i kości, z którymi można się utożsamiać i - w zależności od ich charakteru - pogardzać nimi, podziwiać lub im współczuć. Nie mogę się doczekać, aż zabiorę się za lekturę kolejnych tomów!
