https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121331.The_Mysterious_Rider
I usually love Zane Grey, but not this one.
Let me summarize: columbine: I have to marry Jack!
I must for my fatherWils: But I love youColumbine: I can never marry Jack!
It would be wrong!
I love you!twenty pages later:Columbine: I have to marry Jack!
I must for my father!Wils: But why Columbine?
I love you!Columbine: I'll never marry Jack!
I love you!twenty pages later:you get the idea.Also twenty pages of Bent hunting and description of everything he sees in between every "I must marry Jack".I spent the whole book hoping Bill and Jack died an ugly death.
Still a western romance, the plot centers around a young woman, an orphan named Columbine, who is entrapped by her allegiances into considering marriage to the drunkard son of her adopted father."Hell Bent Wade" is the mysterious rider, a man with a veiled past who has spent his life helping others--usually with the business end of his pistol, to the detriment of the evil-doers.The novel is more complex in its conflicts, though, than many of Grey's romances.
Columbine is a good young woman who is conflicted between her needs and the needs of her adoptive father.
As with Grey's other books, his description of magnificent outdoor splendor develops the atmosphere of this novel about conflict and romance on a Colorado cattle ranch.
Strangely enough the Mysterious Rider does not initially appear until the stage is set and other characters are introduced.
Consequently, the late arrival helps the reader know the importance of the Rider's role in this novel and how he ultimately relates to each character and influences their destiny in his brief time with them.
This book is, therefore, a subtle reiteration of Donne's statement that "no man is an island," and whether for good or bad, all human beings have a significant affect on each person to whom they associate.
Very good... His usual descriptive style was enjoyed, and the development of the characters. His way of depicting Wade I thought was especially interesting, and how he shows how Wade's dark premonitions build up to the climax of the story. "Thus she understood him. Love was the food of life, and hope was its spirituality, and beauty was its reward to the seeing eye. Wade had lived these great virtues, even while he had earned a tragic name."
This is a wonderfully written book. The descriptions are lovely, and the characters fully fleshed out. You feel a real sympathy for the hero, yet he is not a perfect man. The book is easy to get caught up in.
good wealthy rancher with bad son and good adopted daughter . good story
(I did call her many names as she pondered this decision.) That stage is set before we meet "The Mysterious Stranger," known as "Hell-Bent" Wade, who has a habit of being compelled to turn up in places where he is able to help people with wise counsel, the story of his own life, and sometimes a little application of his awesome gunslinging talent.
First published in 1921, I listened to this novel as a free download from Librivox.org, read by a very talented reader.
(Several reviewers complained about the "cowboy talk" and "bad grammar;" all of that disappears when you listen to it read aloud.)
This book definitely kept me interested! Every time I thought I knew how something was going to play out, it went the complete opposite direction. Every chapter was unexpected. I also enjoyed how much detail the author put into the surroundings. Almost as if you could actually visualize and feel each moment.4 stars only because there would be many moments of frustration during the read with how much Collie went back and forth on what she said she needed to do.
A great romantic western tale set on a Colorado cattle ranch. Read when I was a kid, junior high age, more or less. I remember it as awesome. An orphan girl named Columbine has been raised by the rancher who expects her to marry his no-good son. But she loves Wils Moore, a cattle hand. Into this situation comes the Mysterious Rider, "Hell-Bent" Wade.
Book review of The Mysterious RiderThis was a great book. I enjoyed the story. I need eleven more words. I guess my sentenence did not work.
Good readZane great at telling how nature is, from the life in people to the out look of wild life and the life around.
Enjoyable yarnI really liked this one. Zane Grey is not as good as Louis L'Amour with gunfights, but the plots are less formulaic. I couldn't put this one down till I finished it
This was my first cowboy story.
It was written in 1921, and doesn't have the structure or character development we've come to expect in modern stories.
It's also told just the way I'd expected cowboy stories to be told.
The bad guys gamble and drink and steal cattle.
So, realizing this, I read the story for the experience.
Modern characters need to be flawed to be likeable.
I'll read another Zane Grey, if only to be able to share the experience with my grandpa, who grew up in that world and wanted to stay in it.
Another excellent book from Zane Grey.
I have read this book several times before and I still enjoy it, each time I read it.
The story is about Columbine Bellounds, the man she loves, Wils Moore; her adoptive father, Bill Bellounds, and his son, Jack Bellounds, whom he expects Columbine to marry.
Of course Jack Bellounds is no good, morally weak and lacking virtue.
Into this impossible situation rides Hell-Bent-Wade, a man who has a greater interest in Columbine's well being than is readily apparent to the other members of the drama.
Grey weaves a tragic story that hooks you quickly and keeps you holding on the the very end.
Enjoyable Zane Grey move.
When I was in my teens, I was a great fan of Zane Grey novels.
The life in the American West appealed to a young teen mind.
Zane Grey is still a pretty good read.
But, is not an example of great literature.The story is of a good adopted daughter and an evil son of a rich rancher.
She commits to marrying the bad son to 'save him'.
Her persistence in marrying such a bad seed.
Anyway, the book moves along with a good guy and a savior.The depictions of the Colorado wilderness are excellent.
This is my second favorite Zane Grey book.
What I like about Zane Grey's writing is on the first page he introduces a place or person that makes you want to read on and find out more.
In the first page of this book, we meet a girl who was discovered as a baby by miners.
In later chapters we meet a rider with a secret past and a reputation as a gunfighter.
The rest of the book tells the stories of these two people and how their lives have intersected.
The story is well-told and the characters are interesting.
I read this book in 2015.
I needed a western to fill a square on the summer reading bingo card.
I thought the movie 3:10 to Yuma was pretty good, so I wondered if it was based on a book.
I found out that it was based on a short story by Zane Grey.
I found a collection of his short stories at the library, but I didn't want to read a collection of short stories.
So, I picked up this book instead.
The basic story was okay, but I only gave it one star...for two reasons.
Two, I didn't like the young woman in this story.
This was my first-ever western! I chose it by title alone in a hotel library in Wyoming. It wasn't as full of twists, character development, and intensity as most of the contemporary books I read (I think this was written in the 1920s or 1910s?) and I guessed all the plot developments far in advance, but it was written in a very straightforward manner and was easy to get through. I likely won't read anything else in the genre, but this was a cool window into a world I wasn't familiar with.
I know his writing is often trite and the critics abhor him, but I love a Zane Grey western. His predictable stories, with tough leading men and independent young heroines, make me feel good in an unsettled world. I love his descriptions of the landscape flora and fauna.This story is a formulaic romance in which the good cowboy wins the heart of the rancher's daughter by defeating the evil ranch foreman. It's good stuff for whatever ails!
RPL AudioMy first Zane Gray and my second western. Was not quite what I expected. Less gun play and more romance. Almost thought I was reading a "woman's" book at times since a portion of the work was from the only female in the book.I am split over giving a three or four star rating so I am going with three because it has not hooked me to go out and read more. If I come across one I might pick it up or maybe not.
This book tells the story of an aging rancher, his no-good son and spirited adopted daughter. The descriptive detail is moving. The evil son gets his comeuppance, the good cowboy gets the girl, and the mysterious rider brings it all together. A good gunfight and the love story make it a fun read. Zane Grey is not famous for nothing.
This was a little campy but I enjoyed the characters. The good guys were a little to good, Bent Wade was a little too superhuman, and Jack was the quintessential bad guy. The character I really like was the father. Conflicted and relatively good, but never quite sold to either side. The point in reading is to see whose side he ends up falling on.
Rereading, this time I liked that Wade respected Columbine's choice to Sacrifice herself on the Altar of Duty. (It's melodramatic enough for the capitalization, though it's not done in the story.) The first few times I read it, though, I was completely ready to shake her, and confused as to why Wade just let her mull over her decision.
The adventures of a gunfighter, a settle, and a killer revolving around a beautiful woman. Grey paints a romantic view of the West written before writers started using graphic violence and sex in their work.
Great read!This book is a typical Zane Grey western. It has everything you'd expect in one of his novels. I especially liked all the twists in the plot. It was not a predictable ending.
An enjoyable story for a cold Sunday afternoon by the fire. Not the deepest book you'll read, but the characters have a little more depth than the typical Zane Grey and the descriptions of Colorado wilderness are perfect.
Not your basic "Oater". The characters seemed to me like archetypes working through their destinies of parent and child. Good read.
get. to. the. point. O... My... Word...
Zane Grey at his bestA story of unconditional love, told as only an Author like Grey can write. If you are a fan of Zane Grey, this novel is a must read.
Librivox edition audio book.
