https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9462812-die-for-me
It was surprisingly easy to do...I also needed a legitimate reason to look sad all the time so that when he first saw me, I could look a little like this: Took me FOREVER to figure out how to make myself and my surroundings sepia with a softglow - but I didn't want to ruin the first moment my prospective hot, immortal teen boyfriend looked at me.In this instance I decided to go to Paris because they have the best coffee shops to sit and look pensive in.
I liked the solution that Vincent offers to Kate so that she can be with him, and it's probably the moment with the most genuine emotion in the book.What I wish were different:* The writing seems strangely formal or mannered.
Kate and Vincent have a very awkward first meeting and most of their conversations are very stilted, though they're supposed to be cute or romantic.* The relationship is set up to be almost the be-all and end-all for Kate.
She reads two books in a cafe, but as soon as she meets Vincent on page 25, there's no other clue as to what this girl is interested in or cares about.
I'm not saying I want these girls to be vain, and I know that every girl has insecurities, but I don't think it would take too much away from making these teens relatable by also giving them a healthy dose of confidence.Her love interest, Vincent, is of course a gorgeous immortal boy with gorgeous immortal friends, whom Kate doesn't even believe she has the right to talk to.
I think Plum does have potential here with these immortal creatures and the lore that goes with them, so hopefully by the next book Kate will feel more self-worth and stop trying to convince me that she's not special.
It’s started out SO good!!The book and I had SUCH an amazing connection, you know?And I was REALLY loving it; and I was getting ready to introduce it to the family; and then…*BOOM!*I got stood up at around the 40% percent line.-:- Seriously! I might as well have been wearing a prom dress.  -:- ____________________________________________After the 40% mark: this book’s storyline deteriorated like… well, like deterioration. :)  You know how… with some books, you reach the halfway mark, and you’re
It’s started out SO good!!The book and I had SUCH an amazing connection, you know?And I was REALLY loving it; and I was getting ready to introduce it to the family; and then…*BOOM!*I got stood up at around the 40% percent line.-:- Seriously!
____________________________________________After the 40% mark: this book’s storyline deteriorated like… well, like deterioration.
You know how… with some books, you reach the halfway mark, and you’re kind of wishing a HUGE, massive natural disaster would just come in and completely wipe out all of the main characters?
IT’S NOT GOOD.And that’s how this book was.And now I’m sad.
The pace was perfect allowing the beauty of this story to soak in, like the descriptions of the Paris setting ~sighs~.
There was talk of art, museums and sitting at Cafe' on the streets of Paris reading a book that all will make you want to trade places with Kate (that and the kissing scenes with Vincent).
If you are like me and are a complete romantic fool you are going to love Kate's and Vincent's relationship.
I wish that every series could end like this one.Overall, Die For Me is an stunning debut that I want to read all over again.
Of course, where there’s good guys, there ought to be bad guys, and the villains in this story are the numa, the ‘bad’ revenants who never die, but instead spend their lives murdering people and driving them towards suicide.
It uses a lot of the regular YA tropes, but it’s a sweet, entertaining story that’s definitely worth a read, and ought to especially please the YA audience.I liked both Kate and Vincent.
Vincent, of course, knows that Jules will be reanimated in three days, but Kate, being unaware, is so shocked by his seeming callousness towards his friend’s death that she walks out on him and refuses to see him again.
Does Vincent have godlike good looks?
In a wild fit of originality, the author does give Kate another hobby: sitting around in museums staring at paintings until she goes into an art trance.
Kate doesn't understand what Vincent sees in her.
She's obsessed with how good-looking he is.
Vincent thinks he should leave her alone for her own good, but is an empty shell without her.
That Vincent sure is one good-looking dude.
Sound familiar?Vincent is perfect.
Obsessive love.Sound familiar?
Obsessive love.Sound familiar?
Is your creativity so MIA that you can't create a fresh love story, believably flawed characters, and a plot we haven't seen five thousand times before?
I blame Twilight for this book.Let’s see, in Die for Me, there’s:- An insecure teenager, who doesn’t feel she is worthy enough of her love interest, Mr. Perfect.
That was probably one of the biggest problems I had with the book: the relationship between Kate and Vincent.
He’s also extremely creepy, has been spying on Kate before she even knew he existed, he watches her while he sleeps, and he had a picture of her on his bedside table within a week or two of him knowing her.
“I'm a revenant, not a vampire, chérie."  This was a YA paranormal romance set in Paris.I liked the characters in this although Kate was maybe a little too reserved at times! The way she argued that it was better to protect her heart rather than to fall in love and then lose that love was a little sad.The storyline in this was about Kate moving to Paris to live with her grandparents after her parent’s deaths, and meeting Vincent, who wasn’t quite human, but was instead a paranormal creature ca
This was a YA paranormal romance set in Paris.I liked the characters in this although Kate was maybe a little too reserved at times!
The romance in this between Kate and Vincent was pretty good, although it did remind me of twilight a bit at times!The ending to this was also good, and it will be interesting to see what happens in the rest of the series.8 out of 10
It had love, and not the kind that makes me want to strangle the characters like many other YA novels (gasp!), action, and left me breathless at points to where I have gone back and re read my favorite parts  which was almost the whole book  quite a few times, which I never do.
It's like Plum knew this whole controversy was going to come up and had Vincent say,"I'm a revenant, not a vampire, chérie."So take that you Twilight loving people!
Second time around, I loved this. It was exactly the light, airy pick-me-up that I needed. How things change. Review to come.
For a moment it seems like Kate knew him, but she also sense something different and mysterious about him, something even...dangerous.Wow!
I loved how she totally owned this book, taking something that had been done before and turning it into something new and exciting.I really enjoyed all the characters.
Kate is very practical person, maybe even a little pushy, but I like that determination in a character.
Together they have a very natural chemistry, nothing overly rushed, just the way I like my love story, with lots of sweet moments to completely melt me.
That gets old so fast, and the world is a huge place: not everyone comes from Small-Town USA.However, my biggest pet peeve ever is that it is excruciatingly obvious that Plum has never spent any significant time in Paris.
Paris is about 3 hours away by train, and it is a city I know well and have been to countless times.The epitome of this lack of knowledge of Paris comes in a scene where Vincent takes Kate for a romantic evening for two.
The paranormal aspect was a fresh one and – FOR ONCE – the guy wasn’t this really bad but actually nice and therefore tormented creature.A lot of the secondary characters were promising, but unfortunately not as much in the focus of the story as I would have liked them to be.
I mean, sorry, but do you tell your granddaughter that it is completely fine to sleep at her boyfriend’s house if you actually don’t really know him or any members of his family?
Why can’t he for once just be a totally normal guy?But mostly, I just missed the right connection with the two main characters.
This was by far my favorite part of the book.The characters includes Kate and her sister, then the family of Revenants.
But really, all of them are as important to the story as the main leads, which adds up to giving us a well-rounded, purposeful cast.Zombies!
But we're intended to feel great ecstasy towards them being together, when it simply falls under cute.All in all, with a lovely setting and wonderful characters, Die For Me gives us a delightfully fun story that will easily attract fans of YA paranormal romance.--For more of my reviews, visit my blog at 
Paris comes vibrantly alive in Die For Me, a book that had me picturing Vincent Valentine (Final Fantasy) as Vincent, the object of Kate's affections. What? A girl can dream, right? Really enjoyed their romance, loved Kate's relationship with her sister, and looooved the details about Paris. An engrossing romance!
This book was about a girl who fell in love with a Revenant.
Not everyone who does that could become like them though.How are the Revenants involved in this story?Kate and her sister Georgia lost their parents because of an accident.
I have to say that the cover was one of the things that pushed me to read the book.* Kate was a nice girl who loves books and art.
* I liked the part that Vincent was able to use Kate as a vessel.
I like Kate a whole lot better than Bella.
She was close to Kate like Alice was close to Bella.
I was ecstatic to read Die For Me. Sure there was a lot of hype surrounding it, but most importantly I had read many gushing reviews which lead me to believe it would be satisfying at least.I suppose I can start of with admitting that it is a "little" different regarding the setting of the book which instantly creates a very enticing and vivid picture of a place that I have been eagerly wanting to go for a long time.Sisters Kate and Georgia have recently lost their parents and have moved to Paris to live with their grandparents.
The one romance book I love.
I felt both Kate and Vincent had qualities similar to characters in other books.
What I really liked the most was that Kate didn't immediately jump into a romantic relationship with Vincent.
As for the normal humans, Georgia was an interesting character because, although she was more outgoing than her sister and they sometimes had disagreements, she and Kate seemed to get along pretty well.
Hope to see more of her in the next book too.With an amazing setting, likeable characters, and an original take on a paranormal being, Die for Me is a refreshing read in the young-adult paranormal genre.
What I enjoyed most about this book was not knowing what to expect or being able to predict what would happen next.
I have seen Paris in movies however I have not traveled there.
I felt like Amy Plum nailed it.
I truly felt like I was there at every cafe and musuem.
I felt like they were all very well written despite me wanting to know more.
Although I was a bit confused at first, in the end I completely understood.
Vincent and Kate sizzled..
He may not be able to offer "normal" however he certainly delivered "extraordinary".I absolutely am in love with this book.
A little between 2.5 to 3 stars.I liked the supernatural aspect, since it was pretty original.
But the problem is, that's really all I liked about it.Because to me, besides the supernatural aspect and setting, this is such a typical YA book that doesn't really stand out from others.
Kate was a very Mary Sue heroine, and Vincent was a typical, godly-looking hero, although I give Amy Plum bonus points for not making him a jackass.
But that doesn't mean I liked the romance, that only means I tolerated it.I don't really have much else to say about this book.
Yep. Just as good as I remembered. Love love love Kate and Vincent and everyone else.
Zombie romance? The very idea of this book intrigued me. Amy was one of the authors joining me on the YA Scavenger Hunt and I hurried out to pick up her book shortly after that. I loved getting a tour of Paris and sitting at a cafe reading with the main character. The idea of the revenants and their enemies the numa was great! Love the cover too.
EDIT: Apparently, this isn't about zombies. It's actually supposed to be a good book. Once again, this review is based on the blurb. I'd appreciate it if book blurb writers stopped catering to the Twilight Crowd. Thanks.Just when I thought it couldn't happen -- IT DID. Zombies. Good Zombies that look like chiseled Greek gods that can make out with girls. Why Harper Teen? WHY?
Here are some examples from my randomly flipping through the pages as I write this review: I succeeded in wobbling my way down the back hallway into Vincent's room, where I threw myself face-down on his bed and let myself sob.I felt tears well up in my eyes and pinched myself hard.I couldn't stop the tears this time.
It's like Kate's never seen an attractive person her whole life, the way she keeps imagining Vincent everywhere she goes.
2. Girl meets guy's sort-of sister, who likes her immediately.
I was swept away by the story and read into the night because like Kate, I just HAD to know what Vincent is.Die for Me's revenant is my new favorite paranormal.
Plus that gorgeous setting lends itself to some breathtaking double cheek kisses, sublime hot chocolate, and swoony French lines.Although there is immediate attraction between Kate and the enigmatic Vincent, Plum lets the romance simmer for a few chapters, which I love.
Why don't more books end this way?Die for Me has an original paranormal concept that I love and a vivid setting that I can't wait to visit again in Book 2.
Although after I read the book and did a little research, I like Plum's take on the folklore much more!The thing that really stood out to me was the story itself...
despite that paranormal boy meets girl story-line, it was different.
Then again, maybe it was the characters.
I'm such a sucker for a good love story.
(And steamy at times!)If you're looking for a paranormal, that's a little bit different than everything else out there, with well depicted, realistic characters, awesome writing and a captivating story, look no further than Die for Me!
The first thing I wanted to address was the comparison between this book and Twilight. I don't see it. I think we need to stop comparing all PNR books against Twilight. It's lazy reviewing if I'm being honest. I thought this book was very unique. Amy Plum took the idea of zombies and created her own twist on the mythology. I adored the revenants concept, and to me, this book was a much needed breath of fresh air. YA Paranormal had gotten a little stale for me lately. You can read the rest of my review here:http://www.fantasybookaddict.com/2012...
https://rowansravingreviews.wordpress...
