https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54844.Dragon_s_Teeth_I
I was less interested in Dragon's Teeth as a novel - although it is a very well and powerfully told story - than I was in the observations the novel's characters make about Hitler and the Nazis.
Hitler wanted two things … to get complete mastery of Germany … to be let alone by the outside world while he was doing it ...
(LMW: The Catholic Church, in passing the Enabling Act and signing the Concordat) were of inestimable help to Hitler in achieving both objectives)For more information on my own novel-in-progress, set in Germany and Poland during the Nazi period, and my previous novels, see http://lewweinsteinauthorblog.com/
Nothing on earth or in heaven was sacred except their cause; nothing was wrong that helped their cause and nothing was right that delayed it for a single hour." Today it's the question of picture IDs and voter fraud.
Desperate to assure their candidate's position, these people will fight the requirement of voter IDs. So much of the politics and policies put in place between WWI and WWII sounds like what we are experiencing today.

those who don't learn from the past are bound to repeat it, that's for sure. Reading this against the rise of the Trump administration is depressing indeed.
Timely, ironical then and now, chilling yet tongue in cheek...
Dragon 19s Teeth: World 19s End series volume 3..........................................................This part covers the time period when evil began to proliferate in Europe with establishment of fascist regimes.
His circle grows to include various high officials of the new regime in Germany even as his stepsister from New England is married to the Jewish genius violinist friend whose family lives in Germany, and the couple go around US and Europe including Russia giving concerts.
Lanny would like to be agreeable, but can hardly sever his ties with the leftists what with a communist uncle Jesse and a communist half sister too, the daughter of Budds who is married to a Jewish violinist.
Well, this is just half of the novel.
Not sure why the reprint publisher divided the novel into two separate books, but so it is.
I'll save my review until I finish book 2, but suffice it to say that it takes a while to get into the story, but it really picks up towards the end of Book 1 and really gets good throughout Book 2.
Check out my review of Book 2 (when I finish it) for a complete review of the whole novel.
UPDATE: Just finished Book 2 and my review of the whole novel is published there.

It is fascinating to see how much application this book, written more than 70 years ago, has in current politics! I was surprised (and disappointed) by the impact of seances and mediums on the overall story. But in all, I was riveted by the characters and the story, even though i didn't get all the cultural references and the foreign language quotes.
Very good!
I haven't finished it, the pagination is funky in this edition. It's OK. It's terrifying. Note to everybody in Germany in the late 30's: get the hell out.
I have lost my copies of the set. But this was first one I read and it was incredible. He was such a wonderful writer.
The third book in the Lanny Budd series. I've read the series 2 or 3 times and am reading through it again.
I tried to finish reading this book. I really did. Too much political stuff. Not enough about the medium.
