https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18789.Sanctuary
The celebrated painter goes to a zoo to view some animals and paint some pictures.
The artist replies, "That is a young female, confused and alone while among others of her species, and in that particular painting she is being raped with a corncob by that unusual-looking beast.
The beauty of the images enhances the experience - particularly for those viewers who appreciate mastery of technique and persistence of vision - and the bleakness of the settings allow the viewers to feel as if they are understanding something basic and primal about these animals.
I Am What I Am and That's All That I Am"Good God, I can't publish this. We'd both be in jail." So said Faulkner's publisher prior to the 1931 publication of this sensational novel of rape and murder, focusing on Temple Drake, an Ole Miss debutante, and a violent bootlegging criminal named  Popeye . Faulkner's second favorite female character, Temple Drake (behind Caddy Compson) is an Ole Miss co-ed cutie thrown into the devil's pit by circumstances (caused proximately by the same brown devilwate
We'd both be in jail." So said Faulkner's publisher prior to the 1931 publication of this sensational novel of rape and murder, focusing on Temple Drake, an Ole Miss debutante, and a violent bootlegging criminal named 
It's the only Faulkner novel, I think, that describes masturbation in Faulknerese (btw, a fun hobby for literary comics), and that centers on a brutal rape (though Mr. Bill never directly addresses the carnal human nature).
This was Faulkner's commercial and critical literary breakthrough.
(Or, in the case of this particular reader, who deals with the horrors of reality in questionable ways, to close his eyes for a moment and give a sputter-laugh at the are-you-serious?-ness of it all) The novel's narrative focuses on a hussy of an eighteen-year old socialite, Temple Drake (who for the first half of the book may strike us modern readers, with our wonderful gift of female badasses like Lisabeth Salander, Clarice Starling, and Miriam Black, as resembling a little too much a helpless canary panicking in its cage), who gets kidnapped by a grotesquely-noirsh, redneck thug named Popeye.
While nowhere near as challenging or experimental as Faulkner's modern classics (insert list here), this novel is written in an often breathless, ramshackle pacing that will keep the scandalized reader turning pages.
I thought this was going to be about rape, brutality of human nature, and other awesome things; But instead, it was about....fuck, i dont even know what it was about (I read the first chapter and came to the conclusion that getting poked in the eye for 20 minutes would have been better...).He also loves to use Southern slang, which is the most annoying thing to hear in your head after 15 pages; "Ya'll" and shit like this!
So there, I said it.Now that I've ranted, maybe I can stop critiquing the works of famous writers and do something more constructive like get a job or a steady girlfriend.
My tour through the works of Faulkner continues, this time courtesy of the monthly read with OTSLT group.
I didn't know of the history of this book before I began reading and read it as I always do Faulkner, with an eye out for the impenetrable prose and the other simply waiting for remarkable prose.
I was also struck by the almost stage-manager sense of some of the descriptions provided in the set up of scenes and actions.
I know that at least a part of Faulkner wrote this in an attempt to have a break-through novel.
Ο Φώκνερ δεν επιδέχεται αξιολόγηση, τουλάχιστον όχι την τρέχουσα, του συρμού.
Η "Ars longa" του δεν εμπίπτει στην κατηγορία των πεπερασμένων κειμένων και γραφιάδων που καταναλώνονται σωρηδόν και στη συνέχεια παραδίδονται ανερυθρίαστα στη λήθη του χρόνου (στο θλιβερό ημίφως ενός σκονισμένου ραφιού).
Η "πλαγιομετωπική σύγκρουση" του φίλεργου αναγνώστη με την απαράμιλλη γραφή του Αμερικανού συγγραφέα είναι αδύνατον να μη λειτουργήσει αφενός απελευθερωτικά, αφετέρου ως θρυαλλίδα συναισθημάτων και σκέψεων.
Αυτή τουλάχιστον την επίδραση έχει σε εμένα.
Συγγνωστό το… αδίκημα, καθότι όλα τα επιμέρους υφολογικά στοιχεία που ο Φωκνερικός αναγνώστης έχει συνηθίσει να αναζητά στα έργα του συγγραφέα είναι παρόντα.
I want to begin by saying that reading through the reviews for this book is a very frustrating experience.
Every second review quotes that Faulkner only wrote this book to make money and that this is why they do not like the book.
Here is a quote from Faulkner at the back of my copy of Sanctuary: "Then I saw that [Sanctuary] was so terrible that there were but two things to do: tear it up or rewrite it.
People seem to think that because something they've read makes them uncomfortable or disgusted, it is immediately a terrible piece of literature.
I’m trying to imagine a darker world than the one William Faulkner portrays in Sanctuary, and I can’t come up with one.
I found myself holding on to my own breath and gasping, with a tightness in my chest that surprised me.No one could ever accuse Faulkner of being easy reading.
Sanctuary is not my favorite Faulkner, but Temple Drake is, I believe, one of his stronger characters.
I’m looking forward to reading Requiem for a Nun and seeing where her future takes her.
I do love Faulkner's writing although my first read of The Sound and the Fury nearly drove me mad.
A second reading and analysis at college helped me understand and love it better.
The only other novel I'd read by Faulkner was Light in August, which I also enjoyed.
The readability of it is reassuring, especially for those who haven't read any Faulkner.
What I love about Faulkner is the way he created Yoknapatawpha County, Mississippi, a fictional town, and made it feel like it could have been a very real place.
Sanctuary is interesting on all levels - plot development, character analysis, themes, etc.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IMnzF...Description: Psychologically astute and wonderfully poetic, Sanctuary is a powerful novel examining the nature of true evil, through the prisms of mythology, local lore, and hard-boiled detective fiction. This is the dark, at times brutal, story of the kidnapping of Mississippi debutante Temple Drake, who introduces her own form of venality into the Memphis underworld where she is being held.
3 stars because it's Faulkner, and there may be a chance that I'm not intellectual enough to get what he's trying to say. I have even read Cleanth Brooks analysis of this novel in "Yoknapotawpha County", and while it helped a little, I'm still confused. I know this review is unhelpful and I wish I could be clearer, but since I have no idea how to make it better, this will have to do. And the baby in the box was just weird.
Uno stile sicuramente moderno e all’avanguardia, considerato l’anno in cui è stato scritto."Odora di nero', pensò Benbow; 'odora come quella roba nera che sgorgò dalla bocca di Madame Bovary e le colò sul velo da sposa appena le alzarono la testa."La seconda cosa è la gestione del tempo, che nel romanzo si restringe e si dilata in continuazione, con improvvise accelerazioni seguite da frenate contemplative di una situazione, dell’attimo."Il tempo non è poi questo gran male, dopotutto.
Il tempio (Temple), la sigaretta pendente, la pannocchia, la bocca, ogni cosa ha un significato multiplo.Ma ciò che mi ha colpito di più è la capacità di esprimere emozioni anche senza descrivere espressamente e direttamente gli accadimenti, che sono quasi sempre sottintesi.
This is the book that put Faulkner on the map back in 1931, 27 years before Lolita was published in the US and put Nabokov in the same public spotlight.
In both cases, these writers had produced several great novels prior, but it was their shocking portrayal of a young girl's rape that drew the public's attention.Set in Faulkner's fictional Yoknapatawpha County, Sanctuary follows the story of Horace Benbow after he leaves his wife and step-daughter.
There is basically no relief in this "potboiler", as Faulkner called it.
3.5 review to follow.
Faulkner è un maestro nel descrivere le scene che precedono la violenza: lo scricchiolio del materasso su cui si rifugia Temple, che ricorda il frastuono dei cartocci delle pannocchie (quale simbolo migliore per rappresentare una società razziale, fatta di neri coltivatori di mais e bianchi avvocati in giacca e cravatta?), l’impermeabile utilizzato dalla ragazza come unico schermo nei confronti di una violenza sempre più palpabile…si riesce quasi a sentire l’odore dei fiumi dell’alcol, o della sigaretta di Popeye sulla soglia della camera, mentre leggiamo queste pagine.
(In fact, I'd like to digress a bit and say I strongly believe Tobe Hooper was influenced by this book into making the settings of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.) So although for me the style was not as "revealing" (so to speak) as those of As I Lay Dying or The Sound and The Fury, and even though this was a book he only wrote out of profit (he said so himself), the substance makes it one of the best of its kind with that particular way of Faulkner to mess with the reader's sense of time and place, still demanding him (just a little bit in this case) to expand their attention span to figure what's going on, having their faces twisted when they start piecing things together.
Ne derseniz deyin siz, kötü denen şey bulaşıveriyor insana, ona değmeden uzaktan baksan bile..." (sayfa 80)Yazar bu kendi kitabı için şöyle demiş"düşleyebileceğim en korkunç öykü!" Evet gerçekten de öyle!
Korkunç bir öykü!Zaten bu kitabı yazar ilk yazdığı hali ile yayıncısına götürdüğünde, yayıncısı, "bu kitabı bu hali ile basarsak ikimizi de hapise atarlar" demiş!
Şunu söylemem gerekir ki anlatım dili çok karmaşık ve hatta biraz da zor!Ama Nobel Ödüllü bu yazar kesinlikle çok farklı ve sağlam tasvir yüklü bir anlatım tarzına sahip bence.Ben kitapta çoğu yeri tekrar okudum , çünkü o malum korkunç olayla ilgili ayrıntılar, süslü edebi tasvirlerin içine saklamıştı sanki.Gerçekten bu kitap ve bu yazar bana ilginç bir okuma deneyimi kazandırdı.
This is considered one of Faulkner's more accessible books.
He said he wrote it "just for the money".
My problem with Faulkner is, he makes me feel dumb.
I have trouble following his narratives, always have.
Sometimes he can go for several pages of dialog between two characters and never refer to the identity of the person speaking.
Anyway, I only had trouble with one part of this book.
There is a character named Red who shows up and gets killed, but is never explained or introduced.
Anyway, I guess I should read it again or I'm just too dumb to read Faulkner.
I couldn't really tell you who was who and what was what, but I really liked the baby kept in a box. Lurid stuff, but I've had worse nightmares.
Ogni volta che chiudo un libro di Faulkner, sento immancabilmente il bisogno di ricominciarne la lettura dall'inizio, per timore di essermi lasciata sfuggire qualche sfumatura del significato che lo scrittore ha inteso affidare al testo; tanto più che l'audacia stilistica e strutturale che caratterizza questo autore di norma lo rende tanto complesso quanto magnifico e unico.
Una storia che non apre neppure il minimo spiraglio alla tenerezza, alla speranza, alla compassione o alla giustizia, perché tutto è vizio, malvagità, indifferenza, spregio della dignità umana e della vita stessa.
I can see why Faulkner referred to it as a pot-boiler but, as with some other wonderful writers (Graham Greene for example), it is so well-written that it is something more than just a crime story.
And what a crime story!
I would put it in the category of "Brighton Rock" or perhaps classic film noir -- there is no real hero (even Horace Benbow (view spoiler)[has his flaws, the most objectionable being his lusting after his step-daughter (hide spoiler)]).
Yet out of all the criminals (moonshiners, prostitutes, etc.), corrupt officials and mean-spirited townspeople in the book, I think Horace's sister Narcissa may have been the character I disliked the most.
به عمری فکر می کنم که سر یاد نگرفتن ها صرف کرده ام./قضیه این است که مردها نمی توانند ما زن ها را آنطور که هستیم ببینند و درک کنند. ما را هر طور که دوست دارند می سازند و آنوقت انتظار دارند که جور دیگری هم باشیم.
Review to follow
Tutto questo è Santuario, questo e molto altro che di sicuro mi sono persa nella prima lettura, arrancando dietro le immagini scomposte dei personaggi, cercando motivazioni alla loro ambiguità, subendo il ritmo incalzante dei flussi di coscienza, non capendo passaggi, tornando indietro, rigodendomi la bellezza della scrittura.
Per fortuna doveva essere la sua "cheap opera", la sua opera "da poco", concepita unicamente allo scopo di far soldi, e che questa affermazione sia una presa in giro (come sostiene Materassi) da parte di Faulkner verso il pubblico e la critica che tanto non avrebbero capito nulla, e si sarebbero goduti della lettura solo gli aspetti pruriginosi, tutto questo ha ben poca importanza, quali siano stati i veri propositi di F, intendo dire.
Ne derseniz deyin siz, kötü denen şey bulaşıveriyor insana, ona değmeden uzaktan baksan bile..." (sayfa 80)Kitap bitti!Yazar bu kendi kitabı için şöyle demiş"düşleyebileceğim en korkunç öykü!" Evet gerçekten de öyle!
Korkunç bir öykü!Zaten bu kitabı yazar ilk yazdığı hali ile yayıncısına götürdüğünde, yayıncısı, "bu kitabı bu hali ile basarsak ikimizi de hapise atarlar" demiş!
Ben kitapta çoğu yeri tekrar okudum , çünkü o malum korkunç olayla ilgili ayrıntılar, süslü edebi tasvirlerin içine saklamıştı sanki...Gerçekten bu kitap ve bu yazar bana ilginç bir okuma deneyimi kazandırdı...Elimde yazara ait Ses ve Öfke kitabı var.
"Ogni tanto si lasciava prendere da un'ondata di dolore, come se a un tratto il sangue gli scottasse nelle vene; ma poi la fiammata si spegneva in quella tiepida sensazione di infelicità che gli dava la musica del violino".Commentare Faulkner non è mai semplice così come non è mai semplice descrivere lo stile o la trama delle sue opere.
La morbosità, la violenza delle immagini è sicuramente uno dei punti focali della storia e rischia di disturbare il lettore.I personaggi delle opere di Faulkner e di questa in particolare, sono torbidi, insoddisfatti della loro vita, sono personaggi che conducono una vita al limite.
Lo facevano avvolgere in carta pesante così da non far intravedere la copertina di un romanzo sconvolgente, una lettura scabrosa.Era il 1931.In un'introduzione apparsa alla riedizione Faulkner scrisse:” Questo libro è stato scritto tre anni fa.
Per me adesso rappresenta un'idea meschina perchè fu concepito deliberatamente per far quattrini “ La trama sconvolgente, pertanto, aveva l'obiettivo del guadagno (pare che Faulkner con i proventi abbia ristrutturato casa...) ma non per questo il romanzo ne risulta sminuito, anzi…Faulkner impreziosisce una storia truce con una scrittura unica.
(hide spoiler)]Orazio/Horace (Orazione) avvocato che cercherà in tutti i modi di scagionare un innocente rappresenta la speranza o almeno l'atto concreto di un tentativo.Il titolo stesso “Santuario”  è interpretabile simbolicamente.
Faulkner set out to write the most scandalous, shocking, filthy book he could, for $ purposes.
It's bizarre and unsettling and at minimum achieves the aforementioned purpose of unsettlement, but something more too...thoughts?(3/4/16)NOTES FROM FIRST READING:-The writing isn't up to Faulkner's wickedly high standards, but it's still better than most anything else.
Had F taken the time to revise it before cashing in it would be seen as equal to his prior two by lit types.-Many point out the book's bleakness but like the high tragedies F drew from it is not without comic relief.
I however do not believe this and find that it is another cause of a brilliant author playing down a novel that may not be as poetic and elegant as their other novels, but better in ways that may seem "commercial" or "popular".
I think that literature, good authors especially, can depict violence and sin in a more deeper reality than other mediums.
Instead, Sanctuary by William Faulkner does not celebrate violence but shows it as a reality that is inherent in mankind and is apart of us, whether we like it or not.
Посегнах към това, което беше най-близо до креслото, а това за съжаление се оказа криминален роман.
Щом кралят-Конан Дойл със своя Холмс не можаха да ме задържат повече от 2 разказа, то какво да говорим за автор, на който жанрът му е чужд.
За моя изненада, това се оказа съвсем порядъчна книга с доста банална история, разбира се, но това можем да го пренебрегнем, защото стилът на разказване на Фокнър е просто гениален.
Това беше наистина единственото нещо, което ме караше да продължавам и да продължавам, докато съвсем очаквано книгата свърши.
Не беше грандиозният типичен финал, което също ми се хареса.
