https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161768.King_Kong
Yet I believe that one of those two features dominates as to why it is remembered as a classic work of fiction.In the case of King Kong, the legend of the beastly Kong survives mainly due to the second reason, with the nature of its ideas being greater than the book itself.
I would also be reluctant to see Kong as a symbol of masculine strength and domination over women (therefore creating a chauvinistic narrative from this text), though an argument could perhaps be made for this.However, I would consider the tale of Kong as one which considers the idea of western civilisation versus the forces of nature.
The most awesome cover of the many editions of King Kong. I picked up this paperback earlier in the year and probably have the finest quality edition in the world.And I paid less than $4 for it!Art by the great Frank Frazetta and a nice version of the story of Kong.Here's a cool variation of the cover. And another! And a wonderful tribute by Frank Cho! And one more by Frank Cho! And one last one by an unknown artist for the Bonga comic book! I guess Frank Frazetta must have been in love with An
The most awesome cover of the many editions of King Kong. I picked up this paperback earlier in the year and probably have the finest quality edition in the world.And I paid less than $4 for it!Art by the great Frank Frazetta and a nice version of the story of Kong.Here's a cool variation of the cover.
  And another!
  And a wonderful tribute by Frank Cho!
  And one more by Frank Cho!
  And one last one by an unknown artist for the Bonga comic book!
  I guess Frank Frazetta must have been in love with Ann Darrow!
Аз, уви, трябваше да се запозная с нея - все пак съм болен букинист, събиращ деветдесетарски неща, ама...Още в началото на четивото (което има само едно положително качество - краткостта си), излязло през мътната 1991 се уточнява, че е "второ издание", а преводът звучи доста архаично и подозирам, че първото може да е било преди девети, но не откривам инфо по въпроса.
Вероятно това е романизирана версия на сценария на филма (от 1933), което пък повдига още въпроси, щото...
Едгар Уолъс, нает от идейния двигател на концепцията за гигантската маймуна - некой си Мериан Купър (военен пилот) да напише сценария на филма, умира преди да да успее да приключи текста, а това свършва Рут Роуз, съпруга на некой си Ернст Шодсак, военен оператор и съратник на Купър...
The only excuse to read the novel first is for the people back in 1932.So. Kong.
Big ape on an island fights dinosaurs, 8th Wonder of the World, the Airplanes got 'em, Beauty killed the Beast, roll credits.
The book really wants you to know that Kong is black.
King Kong is renowned as one of the most sympathetic movie monsters in cinema.
If you love siding with the ape, you may be disappointed, but it's a great action read as long as you can ignore the barely-subtext from the time it was penned.
Perhaps among the imaginary giant characters I am more familiar with, King Kong stands out among them.
For sure, he will be borne upon in the mind of the next generation since it is said to have another movie remake.
Comparatively, having watched its movie adaptation gave me the ideas of the plots and settings.
Imagining King Kong gave me the creeps.
He must have intended to leave us readers hanging, turning over the questions such as: How long does it take the main characters to get to Kong Island?
King Kong represents The Beast who will fall for Anne Darrow as the Beauty.
Es una lectura bastante ágil, sin vueltas ni detalles pesados.
De hecho peca un poco en este sentido, ya que me hubiese gustado que profundice un poco más en algunas cosas y que se tome ciertas libertades para hacer la historia un poco mas "completa".
Le bajo dos estrellas, la primera es porque si bien, es de fácil lectura, no termina de gustarme del todo la "mano" del autor, el periodista Delos Lovelace, y porque me hubiese gustado que profundice mas en otros aspectos, como la construcción de los personajes y ciertos apartados descriptivos de la historia.
If read alongside Arthur Conan Doyle’s The Lost World and Edgar Rice Burroughs’s The Land That Time Forgot, King Kong shoulders up with those classics.
In terms of the cohesive, crisp storyline, and vivid descriptions, King Kong is better than The Land Time Forgot.
In terms of sharply drawn characters like Denham and Kong himself, King Kong competes with The Lost World's marvelous Professor Challenger.
Where King Kong surpasses them both is imbuing the monster with a mysterious mix of menace and majesty as opposed to Doyle and Burroughs’s (and later Crichton’s) parade of nameless, faceless dinosaurs.Delos Lovelace has a charming way with words.
And of course, Kong is subsequently subdued and brought to New York as the "Eighth Wonder of the World" where in the end "Beauty killed the Beast."This edition was published by Modern Library and included a preface by Mark Cotta Vaz and an introduction by Greg Bear, the science fiction author.
The book was actually issued a few months before the release of the movie and some of it was based on earlier scripts that were changed during the filming.
"King Kong," the novel developed concurrently with the classic 1930s film, is public domain, even though the film is not; this has led to a weird licensing hinterland for the great ape-god himself, half free to use and half copyrighted.
Reading the novel that began it all is a mixed bag: there's certainly some depth here that the iconic movie couldn't capture, additional action scenes on Skull Island, and some great pulp vibe; on the other hand, the prose is weirdly stilted in a way pulp rarely is (odd, almost Yoda-like subject/object inversions abound).
I don't need to write a review because everyone knows that this was the greatest story of its time.
It features a number of new black and white illustrations (the artist's name is not given), which have a hand-drawn, pen-and-paper feel though they're rather primitively printed.
Frankly they're a bit rubbish but they add some interest at least.I also have an abysmally awful 2014 ebook version from 'Perfect Commando Productions' which at time of writing is the only one available through the Kobo store.
For another, the iconic final scene plays out slightly differently and the dialogue isn't quite identical.In all, it's an adequate book that conveys something of what makes Kong an enduring intellectual property, though not nearly so much as it might have.
At least here, Lovelace is mentioned, discussed and credited.It's ironic that Bear mentions in his preface that movie novelizations are often ghostwritten and published under the director or screenwriter's name because "naive audiences need to believe that a film and everything connected to it come from a single creative mind," when the Modern Library only helps perpetuate this belief by crediting Cooper (who only commissioned the book) and Wallace (who had nothing to do with it) ahead of the actual author.
Ik zal eerlijk zijn en zeggen dat ik de herfilming van King Kong veel leuker vond dan dit boek.
Het verhaal in de herfilming vond ik veel passender dan dit.
Zo krijgen we toch nog dat filmgevoel bij het lezen van het verhaal.
Zoals ik hierboven al vermeldde, vond ik het verhaal uit de film leuker, dit vooral bij de relatie tussen het personage Ann Darrow en Kong zelf.
In het boek wilt Ann niets anders dan terugkeren naar de mensen en geeft er niets om als Kong gewond raakt, wat zeker het geval niet is in de film.
Regardless, as this book was written off advance scripts of the movie, it does differ in some areas, notably the horrid spiders at the bottom of the ravine and a shortened Manhatten ending.
In the movie's ending, he takes a lot of bullets from the fighter planes, gives Ann a sad look, and falls off to his death.
In the book, he realizes the menace of the planes, and decides to go out fighting by leaping after one of them - which was a nice touch.
One of my favorite movies retold and remade over and over.
"Deep horror" (term coined by Brian Kaufman) wherein the thing one holds most dear, most cherished, is the very thing which destroys one (emotionally, spiritually, physically or any combination there of).This novelization of the original movie is ham-fisted at best.
There are some poetic moments and the characterizations are done well enough, but the story was rushed and forced and reads like they just wanted to capitalize on the movie's popularity and didn't care about the craft but were focused only on a finished product.
It was well written. I got a little bored toward the end, but only because I knew exactly what was going to happen from the movie. the ending seemed a touch rushed as well, but overall it was a decent read.
possibly read in winter 1968
Delos Wallace wrote this early novelization based on the script & film by Edgar Wallace and Merian C.
If you know the classic RKO film, you know this story.
There are only a few, minor embellishments to the movie story but these emphasize plot elements - particularly the attraction between Ann Darrow & First mate Driscoll.
My copy is an old Ace edition from 1976 (released to tie in with the De Laurentis film).
(Wish my cat hadn't coughed up a hairball on this copy.
He did the same to my 1st printing of "Star Wars".)For a quick, fantasy adventure story, this is worth reading.
It was a fun, easy read. I didn't really expect much, being as how the book was written based-off of the movie. It seemed to follow pretty closely to the original movie, as far as I can remember the movie being. It wasn't a very deep or complex story. There wasn't much depth to any of the characters or even really to the plot. I wouldn't necessarily recommend it, but if your looking for a short easy read with a little bit of excitement/adventure you might enjoy this.
A decent enough film-to-book novelization, this novel loses much of the visual spectacle that made the original Kong such a treat but gains deeper characterization. It's unfortunate that the period's racism and sexism are still present, but at least Lovelace attempts to contextualize this as a product of the times rather than an absolute truth.
Slightly different than the film with more comic emphasis on a minor character named Lumpy (the old sailor), which I don't ever remember from the film. I still say to go with the 1933 film or reminisce about the old Universal Studios ride.
This novelization is far better than any of the films I've seen. It is compact with plenty of action and suspense. There is an interesting preface on the story's creators that makes you long for film makers who actually had adventures, not just imagine them.
A quick peek back at the 1950s. I read it to put the current movie in context. I appreciate how Kong: Skull Island was able to include major elements of this storyline but make it modern. The new movie feels true to the Kong story without feeling like a copy.
Short and to the point, Lovelace's novelization (one of the premier movie novelizations to exist) does not add much to the story in the original film, but is still a swift, solid read with some literary quality.
It's a typical novelization: shallow, hack writing that follows the film beat-for-beat. Not a waste of time, but nothing the movie doesn't cover.
I can't believe I've never read this before! It was like it was written for me! You should read it too!
pretty good
I love a good cryptid, but this story really shows its age and wasn't for me.
I know it's a product of when it was written, but I couldn't get past the racism and sexism oozing from every page.
The pathetic damsel in distress, primitive "natives", "lingo" and so on.
I was hoping the interviews with science fiction writers at the end would discuss how this novelization holds up in a more modern context, but basically all they did was talk about how great the movie is.Of course, I would listen to Stefan Rudnicki read me a Chinese food menu, so the narration is about the only thing I enjoyed!
I think this is an easy book to read, not to big and wihout difficult language. I think some facts should be more explored like the romance between Ann and Jack, the true intentions of Kong about Ann or some more facts about the tribe of the island. Despite this, I think it's a good book, with nice action scenes and definitly a good classic you should to read.
The book seemed to have fallen apart at the end - the last 15-20 pages dealt with the capture of Kong, glossed over the shipping him to America, his rampage on stage under the bright lights & wanting to save the girl, climb the Empire State Building, get shot up, fall and die.
