https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633468.The_Ferguson_Rifle
This tale is not up to L'amours' usual good story. It is just too disjointed. It starts as a scholar flees west wanting to die after his family is killed in a fire. It winds up us a treasure hunt. In between is a lot of moralizing, which is L'amour at his worst. If I wanted to be preached to I would go to church (and I rarely, if ever, go to church). Only recommended to fanatical L'amour fans.
L'Amour is known for blending fiction with some fact and real people, places, and events in his novels.
This one was no exception, in that a real historical figure, Patrick Ferguson, made a brief appearance.
A year or so ago, I had the opportunity to visit South Carolina, where I was able to learn more about Ferguson's life.
That has happened often as I read L'Amour's novels...they have led me to read Plutarch (the Lives and the Moralia), numerous biographies, and to explore other historical and classical literature.
For that alone, his novels have been important in my life.
Good book, with the narrative being the best part in my opinion.
I like how the main character thinks back on his earlier days, thinks on the Indians around him, and even old philosophers that are long dead.Chantry is a smart man, and I did not read the first book with him in it.
It's set in the earlier-1800's and makes for a good story.
Usually those long paragraphs of narrative would pull me back.I'm not a big fan of the books written in first person, but this one was alright.
I look forward to reading more from the author.
L'Amour likes to write about odd guns -- his books often feature a colt revolving shotgun, which apparently had a very poor reputation in the West as a gun that frequently jammed.
L'amour is clear that the weapon did not have much place in the war, but all of the mountain men the hero meets are charmed by the rifle.
The story is a well-written western, set in the early west, and one I enjoyed this time around perhaps a bit less than thirty-five years ago or so when I first read it..
A good book, a bit above the average western, but far from L'amour's best.

My first Louis. Never looked back.
An excellent writing by 'LL about a Long Rifle carried by a mountain man. The Long Rifle had been obtained from a sniper during the war with the British at Kings Mountain, TN. If you ever pass that way the state park allows entry to the cemetery so visitors can see the names of our forefathers. This is an excellent read for the genre. ....DEHS
I don’t have copious amounts of driving built into my day (if this ever changes, I likely will start consuming larger quantities), I can’t listen at work, and frankly given the choice I would rather actually read the book myself.
My wife and I both loved it, so I am reasonably sure this book will please both Louis L’Amour fanatics and newcomers.It is no real secret that given how many novels L’Amour wrote that were set in the old west, sometimes they tend to run together in your memory.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as Where the Long Grass Blows which I read earlier this year. I found it very slow in places, parts of the plot were unbelievable and there was a lot of repetition and aimless wandering. The Ferguson Rifle lacked the excitement of other books by this author (except for the fist fight at the end) and Chantry, being a well-educated, city man, lacked the masculine toughness that is usually found in L'Amour's male protagonists.
Not one of L'Amour's best - wanders around pretty aimlessly until the final third of the novel, to the point that it feels like the author didn't exactly know what to do himself. While this may make the story more real, it makes the narrative pretty weak.
Ronan Chantry searches for Montezuma's gold along with an Irish girl's father was killed after telling her about some landmarks to the treasure. But others want the gold.
It would seem his writing process consists of taking equal parts horses, steel-spined riders, ladies in distress, a solid bad guy, and of course guns, and mixing them together in a randomizer to make a sure hit.
Tossing in the fact that Mr. steel-spined rider, Ronan, also happens to have a quick-loading Ferguson rifle, and is just looking for somebody to make trouble, you have the makings of a potentially perfect Western-ish book.I didn’t like Ronan as much as I liked other L’Amour characters (like the aforementioned superstar Honda), and that was probably because whenever Ronan was alone with his thoughts he was quite fond of telling himself how awesome he was.
Chantry runs into a group of men heading into the western mountains to do some trapping and he joins them on their quest.
It isn't long before they are entangled in a search for treasure taking a young woman with them to help he with the search and to protect her.There are fights with Indians, the group of evil men that are following the young lady and the elements of a fall in the Rocky Mountains.
There are description of beautiful mountain meadow and craggy mountains.
I love these books and I haven't read a poorly written one yet.
Now that his wife and son have died in a fire, and pursued by the reputation of killing a man in a duel, Chantry returns to the wilderness.
Chantry and his allies must evade the killers, find the treasure and get the woman to safety–perhaps an eccentric mountain man has the key to survival?This is the first novel written in the Chantry family saga by all-time great Western writer Louis L’Amour.
Chantry is not just smart and well-educated, but wilderness-savvy and skilled at all forms of combat he turns his hand to.
As is often the case with L'Amour, THE FERGUSON RIFLE starts out very strong but gets sillier and pulpier the more it unfolds.
But toward the end, L'Amour seems to have lost all ambition for the story: certain plot threads are abruptly dropped, far-fetched coincidences pile up like cordwood, and the whole thing ends in an epic fist-and-knife brawl that, while exciting, struck me as better suited for an EXPENDABLES movie.Too bad, because all the elements are here for something really special.
Had he not been so eager to move on to the next book, L'Amour could've made THE FERGUSON RIFLE a high point in his bibliography.
Stripped of everything educated Ronan Chantry went west.Chantry meets Tally, Ebitt, Sandy Kemble, Shanagan and a Native American called Otoe, who leaves the group.As always, L'Amour adventures gives a sense of being there. The group meets a girl. Lucinda Falvey is in search of a lost treasure.We're taken across land, into the woods, and deep inside caves. (I loved that part.)It takes me back to early America with the Louisana Purchase just happening and Mexcian authority not yet accepting it. Great Read!
This novel is set in the early days of our country. The title describes the prized possession of Ronan Chantry. The rifle is gifted to Ronan. The rifle is an advancement in technology; in the way it is loaded and fired. As I entered this review, I found a title about the Ferguson Rifle that I intend to add to my list. It confirms that there is always something to learn in Mr. L'Amour's books. His books are always well constructed, enjoyable reading.
Actual rating 4.25 What can I say? I am western trash. I will read anything with a cowboy on a horse set anytime before 1900 and I will give that ish at least 3 stars. I am a simple woman who likes westerns and this was no different. This isn't my favorite Louis L'Amore book but it was a super entertaining one and I flew through it.
Enjoyable book as always from Mr. L'Amour. I particularly enjoyed the descriptions of the changing country as the group moved from the plains into the mountains. Plenty of miraculous escapes and fortunate coincidences as any adventure story tends to have, plus the requisite beautiful young woman in need of assistance. This is definitely my favorite of L'Amour's Chantry novels.
Another great L’Amour novel what else can I say? With a little research I also found out that like always the main area this book takes place exists. Today it’s a national monument and park and holds the distinction of being the third longest cave system in the world with multiple different tours underground and many hiking trails above.
The most common of Louis L'Amour's story lines. Strong solitary man, woman in distress and disaster averted. Common, but as with all his stories, excellent.The extra str for the Ferguson rifle which did and does intrigue me.
I should be giving this a 3 stars but the ending caught my attention and just changed my mind to 4 stars. My first read of Louis L'Amour's books was a good start.
Oops I already read this.
Good story!!
I liked this Chantry entry, but I really wish that people would get the chronological order correct in the series.
Over on the Dry SideNot trusting that list, because they got the order for Borden Chantry wrong, I decided to follow http://www.orderofbooks.com/authors/l...1.
Over on the Dry SideAside from that, the book was stock L'Amour.
But the caves really stood out to me.Overall, I liked the story, but I was bothered that it was the 2nd book in the Chantry series that I read out of chronological order, and the caves and the hermit living in them made the last 1/3 of the book much more enjoyable.
On a recent excursion to Oregon, I happened to find The Ferguson Rifle in a thrift store for peanuts and knocked it out in a few hours of reading.Which is the first thing I like about L’Amour’s books.
I like the way L’Amour describes action scenes and how he communicates the thoughts and motivations of his characters.My lady said these are like romance novels for men and I think that’s about right.
If I find any more cheap L’Amour books, I’ll pick ‘em up and give ‘em a read.
Ronan Chantry gained the nickname Scholar as he moved west and, every time he was introduced to another character by that nickname, we readers got the story about why he's called Scholar.
How many times did I need to hear that story?
It felt like L'Amour, when writing the rough draft, couldn't remember if he'd already told us the information so he mentioned it every time he thought we needed it and then forgot to go back and weed out excessive/repetitive passages.
This one was a rough read for me, the repetition aggravated me more than normal.
Louis L’amour has always been one of my favorite authors.
This one is the story of a man haunted by his recent losses – his wife and son are killed in a fire in Boston.
Ronan Chantry heads west after his loss, heading into the wilderness “west of the Mississippi” in the early 1800’s.
He meets up with some men heading west as trappers, running into Indian raids, helping other Native Americans and eventually finding a young woman and her brother who are on a quest to find treasure that her father knew about and her untrustworthy uncle now attempts to steal from her.
I would rate that a good solid "Eh..." It started interesting, but as the story progessed (or didn't) it got dull and long.
The opening chapter sets Ronan Chantry up to be the tragic figure, but that doesn't really play into the story.
Basically Chantry sets off for the west, joins in with some fellas, meets a girl in need and together they help her search for a lost treasure.
This would have worked for a short story, but didn't really have the meat for a full novel.
I loved Borden Chantry and Silver Canyon, but this and Man Called Noon were dull and meandering.
This is an excellent book.
I don't really like the typical "western" theme (cowboys) so I've avoided Louis L'Amour's books.
This is my second one of his books, and haven't seen a cowboy yet.
This one isn't really a "western" as it takes place at the time of the Louis and Clark expedition.A delightful read, I read it again after finishing it the first time.
There is a little romantic angle, but it is so subdued as to be almost non-existent.A delightful book.
I'll try another L'Amour book to see if I can find a "western" among his works.
