https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53672.Crome_Yellow
Having only read Huxley's Brave New World, I was surprised at how different Crome Yellow was.
It is his first novel, published in 1921, a full decade before Brave New World.
Crome Yellow is a satire on English country manors, and a parody in particular of Garsington Manor, owned by Lady Ottoline Morrell.
Cromes fictional characters were much less distinguished, and Lady Morrell was deeply offended by the portrayal.
Even though Chrome Yellow is very different than Brave New World, one of the characters makes a fleeting reference to a future society much like Huxley would later write of in BNW.
Words - I wonder if you can realize how much I love them.
You are too much preoccupied with mere things and ideas and people to understand the full beauty of words.
Your mind is not a literary mind.Goodreads is but a sea of possibilities, rife with points of contact albeit drifting and bobbing.
Too often I don't hear the calls across the foamy expanses.
It is with relief and gratitude that I thank Jim Paris for suggesting this novel.
Crome Yellow is Huxley's first novel.
It has wit and snark.
It takes place in a place called Crome.
I had never read any of Huxley's novels other than Brave New World, and was surprised to find that his first novel, Crome Yellow, is quite far from a sci-fi novel, being instead of the species of British manor satires that seem to make up about half of the novels in the English language.
Not only this, but the back of the book says that even less happens than is normal in these novels.
Yes, it's about a few people in a manor talking about poetry to make their lives seem more important.
And totally worth reading no matter what the blurb on the back of the book leads you to think.
Im Laufe des Wochenendes, das Denis auf Crome verbringt, lernen wir die Besitzer und ihre Familiengeschichte kennen, drei junge Frauen, mit ihnen verwandt, und illustre Gäste, intellektuelle und Künstler.Es wird geistreich über Gott und die Welt geplaudert, in einer Leichtigkeit, wie man sie vorzugsweise in angelsächsischen Romanen findet.
Auch wenn die Probleme der fuchsjagenden Klasse die meisten Leser heute nicht mehr ansprechen: Ich habe diesen Roman mit Begeisterung gelesen und kann ihn uneingeschränkt allen empfehlen, die Spaß an britischer Art und Humor haben.
My friend Celia is a huge Huxley fan, so some time ago I bought a copy of Crome Yellow but never really had an awful lot of time to read it.
What was most exceptional about this novel, to me at least, was the time Huxley dedicates to presenting each character and the care with which he does it.
Henry Wimbush is perhaps my favourite of the lot, a man fascinated by tales of his ancestry, tales as often filled with disappointment and melancholy as with luck and prosperity, but above all, with a subtle humour that almost tickles.I recommend this novel without hesitation and look forward to reading more of Huxley's work.
I remember when I read this story in 1975 that I was abashed by my own failures in dating, and I downrated the book because I identified too much with the narrator.But there is much more to Aldous Huxley's novelette than Dennis.
There are two Sunday sermons; philosophical disquisitions by the irrepressible Mr. Scogan (along with Dennis, another stand-in for the author); an attack on contemporary life by Henry Winbush; and numerous other conversations that impinge on the young man's experience at Crome.I remember loving Huxley's work when I was younger.
The novel is a paragon of erudition and a trove of knowledge and concepts.“Consider, for example, the case of Luther and Erasmus.
There was Erasmus, a man of reason if ever there was one.
Erasmus was no longer listened to; he was reviled for his reasonableness.
Luther was serious, Luther was reality – like the Great War. Erasmus was only reason and decency; he lacked the power, being a sage, to move men to action.
Europe followed Luther and embarked on a century and a half of war and bloody persecution.
Crome Yellow (1921) was Huxley’s first novel, written when he was around twenty-seven, four years older than the protagonist, the young poet (or would-be poet), Denis Stone.
Malcolm Bradbury, in his introduction to the edition I read, terms it a ‘comic novel of ideas’, which seems about right.For Huxley’s contemporaries, Crome Yellow would have had an extra interest and satirical bite through its à clef element.
The touchy, self-conscious Denis makes a good semi-comic protagonist, as he haplessly pursues his puppyish love for his hosts’ sylph-like niece, while polishing lines of verse in his mind about the resemblance of his soul to a “pale, tenuous membrane.”Some of the inserted narratives and monologues are a lot of fun, as well.
Sadly, this book has not withstood the test of time.
This is Huxley's first published work, written in his mid-twenties, just after the First World War. He had spent some time living at Garsington Manor (the model for Crome), home of Lady Ottoline Morrell.
In addition, it has some depth, with commentary on social mores in general, the awakening sexual revolution, the role (and styles) of literature and art, Christian Fundamentalism, Social Darwinism (including a farmyard analogy) and Sanity (Scrogan: "Everything that gets done in this world is done by madmen"), amongst others.
In this, Crome presages Huxley's extraordinary masterwork Brave New World, written some 10 years later, and is well worth a read, if only to get a better feeling for the latter.
A country house weekend, but like Island, the plot, such as it is, just seems an excuse to contrive situations for various cardboard characters to pontificate about life, philosophy, culture etc, rather than the driving force.
Having only read "Brave New World" (50 years back), I didn't know what to expect with this wisp of a novel. Turns out this is just a bit of fun, but so clever and observant that it deserves to be in the minor canon. Crome Yellow is sort of an updated Midsummer Night's Dream, a comedy masquerading as tragedy. To use Hollywood speak - think Monty Python meets Evelyn Waugh.
I decided on reading "Crome Yellow" and "Mortal Coils" now because I had bought this Kindle edition years ago and thought it was time to see more of Huxley's writing.
The family system will disappear; society, sapped at its very base, will have to find new foundations; and Eros, beautifully and irresponsibly free, will flit like a gay butterfly from flower to flower through a sunlit world.""Crome Yellow" was written in 1921 but this passage, I found very interesting post The Great War (WW1) and years before the rise of Hitler."The spirit of Infidelity is the very spirit of German criticism.
But the souls of the faithful at Crome were made of india-rubber, solid rubber; the flail rebounded." A predecessor of Amos in Stella Gibbons' Cold Comfort Farm!There were indications of Huxley's masterpiece to come, Brave New World.
The family system will disappear; society, sapped at its very base, will have to find new foundations; and Eros, beautifully and irresponsibly free, will flit like a gay butterfly from flower to flower through a sunlit world."Finally, a quote I love from this (also by Mr. Scogan):
Drawing from his experiences at Garsington Manor and his time with the Bloomsbury set, Huxley satirizes and caricatures the British world fresh from The Great War and heady with a world of possibilities, including another potential global conflagration that could destroy humanity.Huxley's range of male characters read like spokes on a wheel of his own personality.
Scogan also hints about the possibility of a future of birthing humans in test-tubes - an early foreshadowing to "Brave New World" which would be published 12 years after CY.There are several well written scenes, including a touching oral history of a dwarf forefather given by one of CY's many characters - and the County Fair scene with Scogan as a fortune teller is a favorite.
To me, the name Aldous Huxley has always been synonymous with "one-hit wonder".
I had been required to read his famous Brave New World in high school and subsequently had never heard of him again, so when I encountered another book by him -- and one with such an intriguing title (why not Chrome Yellow?, I wondered) -- curiosity got the best of me.
This odd sort of book never fails to send me immediately to Wikipedia to see what I can glean about the author's intention in writing it.
I was surprised to discover that Aldous Huxley was far from a one-hit wonder.
The setting is in a country-house called Crome and there's very little that goes on here by way of plot, just a series of mini escapades and mildly thought-provoking and sometimes witty dialogues among its guests, one of whom intones:"That's the test for the literary mind, the feeling of magic, the sense that words have power.
With fitted, harmonious words the magicians summoned rabbits out of empty hats and spirits from the elements.
Their descendants, the literary men, still go on with the process, morticing their verbal formulas together and, before the power of the finished spell, trembling with delight and awe.
Crome Yellow is a wonderful collection of characters (or maybe caricatures)from the Bloomsbury group era. Huxley's first novel, while a bit chunky here and there, is a fun read for anyone who loves the wit and eccentricity of the times.
The novel primarily follows the emotional turmoil of Denis Stone, a mediocre poet, who falls for Anne Wimbush, the niece of Crome's Owner Henry Wimbush.
Even to this present day, where the country-house parties seem to be all but gone, the focus of the novel is cutting in that Crome Yellow is all about meaning.
Finally with the risk of looking a little superficial I must end with Fitzgerald's last words where he states to:  Drop everything and read Crome Yellow.
Jei nežinočiau, kad tų etapų buvo daugiau, tai taip su juo ir atsisveikinčiau.
Šią knygą įvertinau taip ne dėl to, kad pats kūrinys neturėtų nieko svarbaus ir įdomaus pasakyti, jis kaip tik pilnas medžiagos analizei ir literatūros kritikai tikrai tuo pasinaudojo.
Patiko man tokie skirtingi personažai, ryškios jų būdo savybės, o, ypač, kaip tai pakišdavo jiems koją kartais, buvo smagu.
Dar labai labai gerai, kad Sofoklio leidykla gale įdėjo vertėjos Irenos Balčiūnienės recenziją, kuri mane išgelbėjo, šiek tiek geriau supratau kūrinį, patį autorių, žodžiu, tam tikras gaires davė, kurios, beje, būtų ir pradžioje pravertusios.
Audiobook #172
Several of my friends read Crome Yellow when I was in high school.
Maybe I simply hadn't been ready for Huxley in high school (though Albert Camus and Franz Kafka seemed accessible enough).
290)Sadly, though I believe Huxley was parodying the positions espoused by Mr. Scogan, his approach to social change seems quite likely to be the only one that will work in the modern age.
To be sure, the book was entertaining, but I had kept this expectation since high school that there must be something special about the book.
Unlike the work of Fitzgerald and our friendly muckraker, Sinclair Lewis, I'm not sure Huxley bears reading and rereading.
He passes through the usual public school and the usual university and comes to London, where he lives among the artists.
He is bowed down with melancholy thought; he carries the whole weight of the universe upon his shoulders.
Mr. Scogan had described the plan of his novel with an accuracy that was appalling.And then Huxley proceeds to write a parody of just such a novel.
Meanwhile a pretty ___tease and her earnest sister play cat and mouse with a Byronic artist and a shallow professional charmer; Denis the callow writer looks on in anguish, as he’s infatuated with the tease.It’s amusing in places, but reads a lot like a stitched together collection of comic sketches that Huxley pulled out of a drawer.
A million stories within one story, nothing happens and everything happens, unrequited love, what we think others think of us vs. what everyone else actually thinks. Isn't this just exactly what life is like?
Dialoguri efervescente, putina actiune.
Camlet was where he always got out, leaving the train to creep indolently onward, goodness only knew whither, into the green heart of England.
The opening lines, with the indolent creeping of the train, the lengthy list of stops to be endured and the absence of expresses sets the stage for Denis’ visit to Crome.
Crome is a place that has not yet had the modern world catch up to it, and Denis, coming from London, feels the imposition as a physical and mental discomfort simply by being on the train itself.And yet, for all of that, Crome Yellow itself still manages to feel like a modern novel.


Huxley's first novel written in 1921 tells the story of a 'house party', so to say, at the house of Henry Wimbush called 'Crome'. With a brilliant array of characters, Huxley gives an in-depth history into certain aspects of the story, his characters include apart from the protagonist Denis, the owner who also calls himself a historian, Mr. Barbacue-Smith, Mr. Scogen, the owner's niece Anne, and others.
Utter tosh.
