https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31091.Murder_Most_Royal
I realize that Plaidy takes creative license with most of her books, but this one was really not correct historically. I rated it to low because I’ve read so much about the great Queen Anne that I just shook my head too much.The other beheaded queen, and Anne’s cousin is discussed in this book too, and I’m not sure that age wise that’s even possible. I’m questioning the timeline. I don’t think the ages are right.
This is a far superior work to The Other Boleyn Girl in which Gregory demonizes Anne Boleyn and The Confession of Katherine Howard in which Dunn does a horrible hatchet job on Katherine Howard.Plaidy presents Anne Boleyn as an intelligent, passionate women, capable of great love and loyalty (she is heartbroken when her one true love Henry Percy, 6th Earl of NorthumberlandShe can be ruthless and acts against Katherine of Aragon , and against Princess Mary but we see Mary has #is so filled with hate to Queen Anne (a particularly gruesome passage where Princss Mary describes how she would like to torture Anne to a slow death-a foretaste of her career as Bloody Mary when she took the throne).Henry VIII is exposed as the cruel egotistical monster he clearly was, though we begin by observing his passionate ardour for the dark haired beauty whose vivacity and polished manners have been aquired during a spell with the French royal family.
One being that they are cousins, the other that they are beheaded...murdered, as the title suggests by the man they both called husband.Anne goes from precocious seven-year-old, leaving England for France in the train of Mary Tudor, Henry VIII's younger sister, to the bitter woman some of know her to be, because of a chance love affair with Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland, gone wrong.
Not only was it in the POV of Anne and Catherine, but also of Henry VIII, Katharine of Aragon, Princess Mary, Wolsey, Cranmer, Cromwell, Jane Rochford, Jane Seymour, etc.
It does add a good story-telling element, two future doomed Queens innocently meeting when they are very young.-Even more doubtful is that Katherine Howard and Thomas Culpepper were childhood friends...even though they were cousins (too many family relationships going on here!).-In the book, Jane Boleyn (Anne’s sister-in-law) is arrested and taken to the Tower of London shortly after Anne’s marriage to Henry for speaking treason against her.
She may have been banished from court, as she was later on for trying to get rid of one of Henry’s mistresses, but she was never arrested on that charge.-This can’t really be called an historical error, but Jean Plaidy does take on the rumor that Anne Boleyn had a sixth finger and odd moles on her body.

As usual with such historical novels, though it says it is a part of a series, you can most certainly read them in any order you like.Murder Most Royal takes place during the reign of Henry VIII and it focuses on two of his wives: Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard, who were cousins of one another.
She is proud that her cousin Anne is the soon-to-be queen and never would have dreamed that one day, she will be filling in Anne’s shoes.I think this is probably the most historically accurate Tudor novel I’ve read yet.
We’ve heard the story of Anne Boleyn in several of Plaidy’s novels already, details remain fairly stable and this shows Plaidy’s firm grasp on the historical events of that time period.I was really looking forward to this novel and found myself greatly disappointed.
The story lingered in some places and rushed in others, and the change in pace was distracting.
The story never took on a life of its own.I may be partially at fault – perhaps one can only read the story of Anne Boleyn so many times in a single year.
But these characters were never infused with life, never drew me in.
¿No es acaso increíble que Anne Boleyn y Catherine Howard, siendo primas, hayan sido esposas del mismo hombre, y tenido el mismo fin?Fue muy interesante el hecho de poder conocer a Anne Boleyn a través de su propia voz y ser testigos, paso a paso, de la pérdida de su inocencia, la cual empezó a una edad muy temprana de la vida: a los siete años, enviada a la corte francesa como parte de la comitiva nupcial de Mary Tudor, hermana del hombre a quien ella todavía no hubiera podido considerar como su futuro marido, ni tenía la más leve idea de lo cerca que un día estaría a él.
Having read about poor Katharine of Aragon's treatment by Henry, and indirectly by Anne Boleyn, I started off reading this book not being a huge "Anne fan".
The book describes Catherine's rise to Court, as one of Anne of Cleves' maids to being the new bride of the King, and her downfall shortly afterwards, eerily echoing that of her cousin Anne Boleyn."He looked at her with smouldering eyes; there were occasions when he could forget he was a king and put his hands about that little neck, and press and press until there was no breath left in her.
This is the second book by Jean Plaidy I read, and I enjoyed it just as much as I did with the first, The Lady in the Tower.The main characters are Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard, who were possibly the most tragic of Henry VIII's wives.
I would have liked to read more about Catherine as a queen, but after all she was so for a very little time.While in The Lady in the Tower the story was told with Anne as a narrator, and so the other characters were not always well developed, in this case we have multiple point of views, a choice I appreciated greatly.
Review - I didn't like this one as much as The King's Great Matter because I felt that the story was far too abbreviated and there wasn't enough detail in either story.
It would have been better to look at Anne Boleyn's story in one book and Katherine Howard's in another, so that their stories could be fully explored and explained.
I felt this was a major flaw, but that what was written was well written and interesting, if abbreviated.
Katherine came across as a petulant and selfish child while Anne was an ambitious and power-hungry woman, but I think there was more to them than this.Genre?
Although we can't know for certain how the characters really thought and felt, Jean Plaidy does a fantastic job of making Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard believable.
Okay, so Tudor times were radically different to ours, and the pressures of being a king were very real, but Jean Plaidy perfectly reflects the opinion I've formed of this notorious monarch, based on extensive reading.She shows us a man who was constantly banging on about his 'conscience' while effectively not possessing one at all.
I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.I felt that it was well researched and seemed more accurate according to what researchers seem to have to say about this particular period in history.I found that hearing the voice of Anne Boelynne helped me to connect with her, as a person, as I never have before.
I still cannot say that I really liked her but I had to admire her courage and the way she faced her death.I did not come away feeling that I really knew Cathrine, she just seemed like a victim more so than a person in her own right with a fully formed charachter and ideas of her own.
I don't know if it's because I've almost practically exhausted the Tudor historical fiction genre, or if this book just was not written as well as it could have been, but it seemed very bland to me.There was a LOT more intrigue and scandal in that time period, I'm sure, but she tends to skip over a lot.
The majority of the book is spent on Anne Boleyn, which I understand since she was around longer.
However, it takes a lot away from the character of Catherine Howard, leaving her a little empty.
This book not my favorite Tudor book, but still worth reading. I found it interesting that the author chose to tell the stories of Anne Boleyn and Katherine Howard together. I learned a lot about their family connections. Overall, I think it was a good read.
I love a good elizabethan novel!
Had to force myself to put down to do other things
I found that there were really good parts of the book followed by big chunks where I was thinking "God this is slow, do I really need to know this!" I read The Kings Secret Matter which just focused on the divorce from Katherine of Aragon and the beginnings of Anne Boleyn's story and I felt like that was a good book.
I had already read other accounts of Ann Boleyn and her life with King Henry VIII but in this novel the author takes time to delve into the character of the King.
It was well know that King Henry VIII had beheaded more than one wife and that knowledge would undoubtedly cause one to wonder why and/or how a man, even a king, could do such a thing.
This novel gives insight into the man’s mental instability and that man being a king who believes that his position is ordained by God. Fascinating!
Although slow, this is a great read.
I've read a lot of Tudor fiction; this is one of the more unique ones I've read.
And by unique, I mean the author doesn't follow the undiputed facts we know; she practically makes up her own story by only following the basics.
Then again, I may be being too harsh, as this was written in 1949 so I'm not sure how much information was available back then, compared to today, I don't know how far we have come with new discoveries over the last 60 years about the Tudor times.
I usually love historical fiction stories about monarchs and their wives, especially ones surrounding King Henry VIII, but this was such a heavy book. It was slow and overly wordy and just a slog to get through. There were a few entertaining moments, but it was overall just very plodding and heavy. There are such many better stories about Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard that I won't really recommend this book to anyone.
This novel spanned Henry VIII's marriages with Jane Seymour, Anne of Cleves and Catherine Howard and his relationship with each. His marriage to Anne of Cleves was very short (as was his marriage) and it was a very good read. I only rated it 4 stars rather than my usual 5 stars because I prefer books with lots of dialogue which Jean Plaidy's novels usually provide but this was not so much. This is #5 in the Tudor Saga Series.
Well written, but the subject matter is depressing covering as it does the death of four queens. Plaidy takes an interesting approach looking at the mid to late years of Henry VIII's reign via the lives of two Howard cousins who became Henry's two beheaded queens. On the way Katherine of Aragon dies in misery and Jane Seymour probably of a post-partum infection. I don't think I'd re-read it.
I didn't enjoy this one quite as much as Royal Road to Fotheringhay. This one felt a bit too long as it goes from Anne Boleyn's childhood until the death of Catherine Howard. It's mostly focused around Anne with Catherine being slotted in now and then. There's multiple povs in this, some were more interesting than others. It was interesting to watch catherine and Anne's lives run side by side.
This book focused on the lives of Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard, the two wives of Henry VIII that he beheaded. I had wondered how the focus could be on these two wives since there were two other wives between them but it was very well done-the brief mention of Jane and Anne of Cleves didn't seem superfluous or rushed at all. Catherine's character seemed perfectly portrayed to me-a flighty airhead who just wants to please herself. This is one of the better Plaidy novels.
It is well written, but I'm not a huge fan of her take on history
this book had good historical fiction but she used the word trembling multiple times.
Pop Sugar Reading Challenge prompt: author with a pseudonym
Great book had me gripped from start to finish and had a real insight on events I didn't even know occurred 5 stars ✨
Es exactamente la misma manera en la que siempre lo he visto, un ser despreciable que era capaz de torcer todas las voluntades y al mundo mismo por hacer su voluntad, alguien que solo buscaba la satisfacción personal y demostrar su superioridad; un personaje fascinante con muchos defectos que tristemente consumieron a personas a su alrededor, aunque también conocido por darlo todo y ser absolutamente vengativo si negabas a dar lo mismo.
Podemos ver cómo va cambiando lentamente a lo largo de la historia.He de admitir que disfrute leyendo la manera en la que Plaidy retrato a María Bolena, hermana mayor de Anna y durante varios años, amante del rey y es que simplemente, no puedo estar en desacuerdo por la manera en la que hablaba de ella.
