https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1132529.Gilgi_eine_von_uns
In Germany, Gilgi became an overnight sensation, and Keun was driven to sue the Gestapo several years afterwards for blocking her royalties.The protagonist of Gilgi is Gisela Kron, a 'disciplined and ambitious secretary' in a hosiery business.
She is made aware of her own strengths and weaknesses, and the place which she occupies in both public and private spheres in her home city of Cologne.Keun's choice of opening is fascinating, and very much sets the tone for the whole: 'She's holding it firmly in her hands, her little life, the girl Gilgi.
Che il romanzo di Irmgard Keun fosse stato censurato, bandito e bruciato, non ci meraviglia. Parlare così apertamente della vita di una giovane donna emancipata destò nel 1931 grande ammirazione e scalpore, rendendo il libro un caso editoriale. Oggi, poter rileggere pagine di tale modernità e franchezza è un piacere. La scrittura decisa a tratti però simile più ad un flusso di coscienza, ci trascina nella vorticosa realtà della protagonista. E noi ci lasciamo trascinare, perché in fondo siamo tutte un po' Gilgi.
dieses buch und das kunstseidene mädchen sind die besten von irmgard keun. gilgi, eine geschichte um eine junge frau, die zu den "typischen" jungen frauen der 20er gehört, hat keun berühmt gemacht und das völlig berechtigt. nicht nur literarisch ein wertvolles buch, sondern auch geschichtlich (zum thema lebensgefühl der "neuen frauen" in den 20ern). sprachlich hervoragend!!!
Romanzo 1931Il romanzo ebbe grande successo, fu apprezzata da grandi scrittori dell’epoca, meno dal governo nazista che ritirò i suoi libri e le impedì di pubblicare, una storia d’amore con Roth negli anni della fine, una notizia falsa sulla sua morte le permise di trascorrere in Germania, nascosta, gli anni della fine della guerra, per morire sola, alcolizzata e ospite di cliniche psichiatriche.Una meteora in quattro righe.E leggendo questo romanzo si capisce perché non piacesse alla bruna poltiglia della censura tedesca.
All these revelations shake up Gilgi, making her vulnerable enough to fall in love with an older man, Martin, an esthete who's never done an honest stroke of work in his life, apart from writing a couple of books.
In a desperate attempt to save hans and Hertha, Gilgi finally gets to meet her biological mother.
Although her friends commit suicide before she brings them the money they need, Gilgi has learnt her lesson, and finds the strength to leave Martin and flee to Berlin, where she is determined to give birth to the child she carries, and bring up the baby by herself, with the help of her friend Olga.
Gilgi (and another book of her The Artificial Silk Girl) was banned in 1933 by the Nazi regime because the women portrayed in her books went against the Nazi's view of what a proper Aryan women should be.Gilgi didn't want to stop working when she married and be a stay at home mom.
So yes, a woman with modern ideas like Gilgi was the opposite of the chaste married stay-at-home mom the Nazi's had in mind.It was interesting to read about a modern women in 1931, especially in the upcoming nazi regime.What I didn't like so much was the writing style...
I very much enjoyed this book.
Published in Germany in 1931.
Revolutionary at the time for its treatment of sexual harassment, abortion, single motherhood, and the “New Woman." This is a story of a young woman's path to maturity in 1930s Germany.
It was banned by the Gestapo and Keun then sued the Gestapo for blocking her royalties.
The writing (translation) is amazing and provides intensity and clarity to the story.
I am shocked that this novel isn't a feminist must read.
5 stars.
5 stars.
5 stars.Thanks to Melville House Publishing for printing this translation and bringing such an amazing book into my life!
Another amazing Keun novel filled with incredible social commentary while not losing the flavor of her young character, striving to make a life for herself in a place and time not easy for women--or anyone. Highly recommended! My teenage daughters loved it too!
Midway through the story, an old boyfriend of Gilgi happens to knock on the door (Martin is temporarily away from the premises): Hans, currently a traveling salesman, is hawking floor wax as his life circumstances are growing increasingly desperate.
The ensuing plot leads to moral complexities and life-changing circumstances.For its time Gilgi, One of Us must have been a decidedly progressive piece of work, with themes supporting women's equality, premarital sex, and abortion choice, so it's not exactly clear in what sense the protagonist was supposed to be "one of us" back in 1931.
Nel 1933 Gilgi, una di noi venne condannato e bruciato dai nazisti insieme ad altri libri mentre nel 1934 conobbe una prima edizione italiana che venne però sottoposta a censura. Se gli italiani a differenza dei tedeschi non vietarono il libro, la riedizione che ne fecero trasformò un libro potente in un testo a dir poco banale, omettendo quelle parti che potevano essere considerate scabrose per l'epoca.https://gliamabililibri.com/2017/09/1...
Martin er en idiot
La mia review qui: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sWYRO...
This part made me laugh so much, as it hits directly on the susceptibility of male's sexual fantasies.Another example of similar humor: "'Gilgi, my little Maori girl...' A thousand words of love, a thousand silly words, you're submerged in them, you're lying under a mantle of words, probably you're making a final feeble effort to find them ridiculous, formulating a cheeky, trivial little remark which promptly loses its way between the brain and the lips" (113).
To go back to the issue of "one of us," the style really convinced me that the novel is not about Gilgi as a special character but just one face of the many other people in the novel.The way Keun builds tension is also fascinating.
Gilgi è una donna incredibile. Piena di coraggio, forza,umiltà e allegria. È sensazionale e sbalorditivo aver letto qualcosa di così tanto attuale ma che è stato pubblicato (e censurato) negli anni '30!! Una lettura magnifica e senza dubbio da consigliare!!
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2017/02/15...
Undeniably the city infects the work, which in turn—like so much other modern art and literature, music and film—pressed back onto the streets and boulevards of the city.One of those works, a slender 1931 German novel called Gilgi, One of Us, Irmgard Keun’s first, has just been translated into English for the first time, by Geoff Wilkes of the University of Queensland in Australia, and will be published November 12 by Melville House Publishing.
[I do not long for that comfort; the same sort of bliss I identified in Boxer in Orwell's Animal Farm when I read it at the tender age of 13.]94 [Sitting in their library, Martin tries to share his "logic."]: "There are some things which can't be recognized as beautiful straight-away, you have to train a little bit first.
I would say that the useful is beautiful.]97 Gilgi's two halves: "You want to keep your whole life from before, with its joy in getting ahead, its well-oiled approach to work, with its strict allocation of time, its brilliantly functioning system.
And you want another life on top of that, a life with Martin, a soft, contour less, heedless life."110-111 G's love of Germany.
Gigli has a rigid plan for her life, she works hard, saves her money and dreams of travel, she has no time for anything else and certainly not for politics.
Her lover, Martin, is a rootless, spendthrift writer and as their affair progresses Gigli begins to confront the economic and social realities of life in Weimar Germany.
There are times when I felt the style faltered, particularly as Gigli’s circumstances intensify her internal conflict, but it’s still an impressive first novel.
Keun has been compared to Jean Rhys but I thought her style was more direct and her heroine more resilient than any of Rhys’s desperate women.
Questa non è la classica storia d’amore dove l’“io” si lascia schiacciare dal melenso e infido “noi”.
La protagonista indiscussa è una giovane donna che sa vivere così a fondo da annaspare (affogare quasi) in un sentimento annichilente per poi riemergere in superficie, pure sotto il peso delle sue debolezze.Sullo sfondo appena tratteggiato di una Germania che sta per piombare nel suo periodo più buio, emerge in primo piano il percorso di crescita di una ragazza che solo al più distratto dei lettori apparirà come un cambiamento.

Bruciato dai nazisti nei roghi del 1933, in Italia ha conosciuto un periodo di diffusione che ne ha tuttavia deformato il messaggio, attraverso un intervento di censura fortemente invasivo.
La protagonista indiscussa rimane una giovane donna, che sa vivere così a fondo da annaspare (affogare quasi) nel sentimento annichilente dell'amore per poi riemergere in superficie grazie alla forza stessa delle sue debolezze.
Lo stile colloquiale e frammentario, mutuato dalla lingua parlata, ci permette di entrare nella testa della protagonista, sperimentando il progressivo movimento dalla disciplina al caos.
Gilgi è l'incarnazione della nuova figura femminile del tempo, pensata e costruita per vestirne i panni non per missione, ma quasi per natura.
Un libro sorprendente, inizia come una commediola con protagonista una ragazzetta bizzarra ma simpatica, nella Colonia del 1930 (gli stessi anni in cui è stato scritto il libro, pubblicato - e ben presto censurato - nel 1931). Sembra una cosetta da leggere senza impegno, poco più di un romanzetto rosa - e poi invece ti ritrovi, un po' come Gilgi con la sua storia d'amore - in un romanzo vero e complesso, interessante e drammatico, ben scritto e ben narrato. Davvero una splendida sorpresa.
I read the English translation. I cannot understand why Keun is not better known and why this novel doesn't feature on feminist book lists. It is a wonderful, clear-sighted depiction of a young woman maturing and trying to be true to herself in 1930s Germany. The writing style is experimental and I liked it all the more for that.
Cannot believe that this book was written when it was. Throughout, the book felt so current, and I really liked the style, I notice a few people said it was too fragmented but I think it showed Gilgi's confusion and exhaustion towards the end very well.
Pubblicato per la prima volta nel 1931 e ancora molto attuale.
I read the english translated version published by Melville House (not yet in good reads) and loved it!
A solid three and a half stars. It picked up a lot towards the last chapter. I couldn't put it down.
Der Schreibstil passt sich ungemein der Neuen Sachlichkeit an und ist zudem ein Beispiel für das neue Leben einer arbeitenden Frau in den 20er Jahren.Gilgi ist als Hauptcharaktere sehr sympathisch, vor allem wenn es sich bei den Lesenden um Frauen handelt.
Trotz Schwierigkeiten beschreitet sie ihr Leben und es ist spannend als Leser auch bei schwerwiegerenden Problemen dabei zu sein.Gilgi wirkt für eine Frau aus den 20er Jahren lebendig und vor allem realistisch.
Noch mehr Nähe zur Realität bewirkt die Autorin gekonnt dadurch, dass Gilgi weiblich bleibt und sich letztendlich doch schwer verliebt, wobei sie dies eigentlich vermeiden wollte.Zudem ist die Geschichte von Irmgard Keun sehr informativ, wenn man sich für das Leben von Frauen um 1930 interessiert.
Nella Germania difficile di quel tempo, dove già soffia il vento del nazismo, Gilgi è propositiva, prolifica, va avanti come un treno tra progetti di lavoro e di vita.
La piccola Gilgi non sa come gestirli, viene fagocitata dall'amore per Martin, e dalla visione che, globalmente e massicciamente, tutti hanno della donna di quegli anni: si lavora fin quando non ci si sposa, poi ci si rintana nel proprio cantuccio domestico, a badare a marito, figli e casa.
Per giunta, senza soldi: Martin è un bohemienne, un'idealista che è fuori luogo e fuori posto nella vita di Gilgi, per quanto lo ami.
First published in 1931, Gilgi is the story of a young woman coming of age in a Germany that, unbeknown to the characters and author, will soon to succumb to Nazism.
But Gilgi's story isn't a romance, not really: her life is a struggle to find and keep any kind of identity and independence in a society that offers her crushing poverty, ubiquitous misogyny and almost non-existent choices.
I suppose that it's impossible to truly judge the style of a novel written in translation, but I found the tendency towards stream-of-consciousness, long inner monologues, run-on sentences and most of all, the tendency to hop between characters' heads and distracting.
