https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23513349-milk-and-honey
Rather like a boy who loves the color green one day, only to discover on the morrow that he truly prefers blue.” write it by clicking enter after ever few word/words“People fall in and out of love with the rising and setting of the sun.
Rather like a boy who loves the color green one day, only to discover on the morrow that he truly prefers blue.” Get what I’m saying?
Some poems are just basic sentences with random skips that have no real point, they aren't too lyrical, and it's literally just like reading a normal sentence.
It wasn't interesting, and a lot of the poems just sounded so pretentious because it was just plain text with no punctuation and random skips in the lines being fed to the reader as art.
The art was nice and a few of the poems were well-written, but for the most part, it seems like very little effort was put into this, which makes me sad because that's such a mean criticism for an artist who puts so much emotion into her work.
I read this in a bookshop.
It's not poetry.
Random line breaks and sentence fragments are used because it is what is expected of a poem, but the author doesn't seem to understand that in poetry, these serve a purpose and must contribute to the poem's larger meaning.
"Milk and honey" is a phrase that has been used for hundreds if not thousands of years: there is nothing new or interesting or creative or poetic in this book.
It reads like a 13 year old's diary.
This book is for people who have never read poetry outside of school, and that's too bad.
lol started this forever ago & just now finished it! didn't love this one as much as i was hoping to, but i understand why so many connect to it. i respect the author for being so open and honest about things she's faced.
poetry or basic tumblr posts?
maybethese poems are justwordsrandomly separatedby hitting enteror maybeI just don't get poetrytrigger warnings: rape, abuse
While Rupi Kaur seems very passionate and while I agree with her politics, content, and message, that doesn't make this writing very good.
Some of the poems are excellent and will draw you in, but mainly, they are very overrated in terms of pure quality.
I see why her poems are popular, but not why she's considered a 'great' or 'brilliant' writer.
I'd say if you aren't a big fan of poetry, this book could get you interested in it, but if you're expecting just plain good old-fashioned literary talent, you won't find it here.
your poetryis almost as terribleas your love life
I read more poetry than I ever have before, I wrote more poetry than I knew I was capable of, and I even started performing poetry.
I like that she shares her poetry online, that a huge part of why they're successful is because of how sharable they are.
I see this book as a great inspiration, I see Rupi Kaur as a great inspiration, and I'm glad it was a big part of my thoughts in 2016.This was me after performing at an event in Brampton, Ontario on April 11th, 2016 with Rupi Kaur!

Well that was underwhelming. I don't really like poetry that much to begin with, but I was so curious about this book after seeing so many people loving it, so I decided to give it a go. I was expecting it to be really profound and ground-breaking and it just wasn't? There were maybe a dozen poems that were quite impactful, but the majority of them felt like filler to me.
Some people call this poetry.
The themes covered are incredibly relevant.
But in my opinion there is a difference in saying/telling what you feel and in writing/showing what you feel.
This was a bunch of very quotable quotes about subject matters that need to be explored, and put front and centre into the public mindset, but without the lyricism of poetry.
So I'm rating this not on the themes covered but on the prose.
I have plenty of GR friends whose opinions I value that absolutely adored this.
Guess I'm just old fashioned when it comes to poetry.
It slayed all my emotions, my feminist desires, and my love for vulnerable writing.
In spare yet thorough language, she addresses what it feels like to be broken, to be loved, and to be stronger on one's own.
This collection, while in many ways simple, addresses some of the darkest and most hopeful matters of the human heart.
If you enjoy marinating in your feelings or if you often ponder topics like female empowerment, getting over heartbreak, or what it means to love, I would recommend you check out milk and honey asap.
“i am a museum full of artbut you had your eyes shut”Wow. Rupi Kaur really touched me deeply with this incredibly work of art.
Her words of truth and honesty are so powerful and so full of emotion, I can't imagine anyone's eyes staying dry while reading it.A few times, though, I was a little confused, I couldn't comprehend the meaning of her words.
I'm not a huge poetry person, but I just had to buy this book after hearing so many people talking about it. It didn't disappoint in anyway. The poetry in this book is so raw and beautiful that I related to so many that I kept going back to reread my favorites and highlight and tab them.
‘how you love yourself is how you teach others to love you.’ this absolutely stunning collection of words made me look in the mirror, give myself a hug, and just really appreciate the person i was, who i am, and the woman i am becoming. self love is the best kind of love. ↠ 5 stars
These are just simplesentencesbroken upwith spaces.Seriously, some of them I was like, I love this! But I didn't view them as poems. They're more like simple quotes. But I get that this is a kind of poetry and people love it, but to me it's just not anything special.
Breathtaking - Brutal - BeautifulRupi Kaur's poetry is unlike traditional poetry.
For one thing - this small book feels like a graphic poetry novel.
Many of the pages had a familiar 'looking-style' which short poems have....but with the delicate, simple, drawings, I forgot I was reading poetry.
The drawings tell a story --we feel the emotions from the them before we even read the words.
In essence, capturing bruises women have experienced.
The book is divided into four sections: hurting, loving, breaking, healing.This book honors women.....addressing chaos with compassion....love, loss, trauma, abuse, healing, and femininity.It's real.
It's raw.
It's relatable.
4.5 stars.Wow.I really didn't know what to expect when I picked up Rupi Kaur's exquisite collection of poetry and prose. Poetry is often hit or miss with me—I totally appreciate it as an art form but sometimes I just don't get it. (I'm as creative as the next person, but sometimes my brain is tired and just wants to be told what something means rather than struggle to decode it. Sorry, I'm a Neanderthal.) Milk and Honey  is about happiness and despair, hurt and joy, love and sadness, and finding
Divided into four chapters—the hurting, the loving, the breaking, and the healing—each deals with a different step in relationships, both with someone else and with yourself.most importantly lovelike it's the only thing you know howat the end of the day all thismeans nothingthis pagewhere you're sittingyour degreeyour jobthe moneynothing even mattersexcept love and human connectionwho you lovedand how deeply you loved themhow you touched the people around youand how much you gave themSome of the poems are accompanied by small illustrations.
I'd imagine that the print version of this book would make a beautiful gift for someone; I'm not sure if I missed out on something reading it on my Kindle, because I'm not 100 percent sure if each separate page is a separate poem or if the book is just laid out strangely.
Some of the poetry in the book ripped a hole in my soul.
** Love knows life has been hard enough already **** You said, if it is meant to be, fate will bring us back together.
Maybe I am not the most apt person to give an opinion on this, but I will throw in my 2 cents anyway.First of all, I can't even remember the last time I read poetry.
But I picked this up after seeing it on my Instagram feed a couple hundred times.
Not that hard since the book is quite short and has lot of drawings, but still.
I was surprised!Milk and honey may be poetry (for the most part), but it tells a very cohesive story.
Actually, the book felt a lot like going through a writer's Instagram feed if that makes any sense.
Sigh... I am in the minority once again. Shoddy execution, bog-standard writing, and frequent enjambment fuse to create an anthology of maudlin proportions whilst exploring love, loss, pain, hope, feminism, and identity. Kaur's themes are of importance, however, this collection didn't live up to my poetical expectations. With all honesty, Kaur is far better than Lang Leav's mawkish and tormenting drivel. Here are a few of Kaur's poems that I found relatable: I. "i am a museum full of artbut you
Kaur's themes are of importance, however, this collection didn't live up to my poetical expectations.
With all honesty, Kaur is far better than Lang Leav's mawkish and tormenting drivel.
Here are a few of Kaur's poems that I found relatable:
I. "i am a museum full of artbut you had your eyes shut"II."people gobut howthey leftalways stays"III."perhaps the saddest of allare those who live waitingfor someone they’re notsure exists"- 7 billion people
I. "you look like you smell ofhoney and no painlet me have a taste of that"II."to besoftisto bepowerful"III."it must hurt to knowi am your mostbeautifulregret"
Here's my personal and poetical tribute for this book:
To be simply put, this isn't a book meant to be loved or raved about.
Why on earth would you seek something so much more from a book that was written so truthfully, with feelings so raw that the hurt and the bitterness and the sorrows behind the words will never dull?
She isn't asking for you to judge if it's "exciting" enough because it's not a fiction meant to be critiqued.
Life isn't always "okay and then what?" Sometimes you can get stuck before you even try to move on.if you were born withthe weakness to fallyou were born withthe strength to riseI am so moved by this.
love is not cruel we are cruellove is not a gamewe have made a gameout of love I can't believe it took me so long to finally read this poetry collection, after shivering over so much of Rupi's online poetry snippets over the years, but here we are, and it was... captivating? Painful? Beautiful? Perfect? what i miss most is how you loved me. but what i didn't know was how you loved me had so much to do with the person i was. it was a reflection of everything i gave to you.how cruel i was to myse
I feel that this is a poetry collection that will be different things for different people, but for me, it was a love story written for those of us who have survived abusive relationships, who have moved on and learned to love ourselves despite the lies we were fed.
How it felt like the first breath of air after far too long underwater?
That's what this collection felt like for me.
Finally, this poetry is an ode to people of color everywhere, and the ways their beauty, their experiences, and their livelihoods should not - and 
It is split into 4 parts (the hurting, the loving, the breaking & the healing)The hurting section was great.
I didn't really enjoy the loving section.
I don't get much out of poems about falling in love so this part was just meh.
The last section again was underwhelming.
Even the ones I saved were just okay and would not have made an impression on me had they been in a poetry book that I love.
It's a quick read but I think this collection is better for beginners to poetry who are looking for something more straightforward and easy to understand.
[4.5]“you // are your own // soul mate”This collection of poetry was gorgeous!
It speaks about family, absentee parents, cultural standards that are called out for its bullshit, but also leading you into a direction that makes you come to terms with why it exists.
It speaks of the healthy, passionate type of good love, and the one where you cannot distinguish what's healthy anymore, damaging your soul in the process, but then ultimately you rising to establish and recognising your self-worth.
This collection is strong.
My wellbeing, my worth and happiness above anyone else's.
I thought it an intense, dramatic representation of my feelings about love, beauty, and being defined by men (they were boys but I was too young to realize this then).
This book reminds me of that.
I admire her passion and I absolutely remember feeling this way: broken by boys, devastated by breakups, dreaming of real love, questioning what it all means.
I remember feeling everything intensely.
This book would've been my Bible had it been published in 1988.
Still, I enjoyed reading it and feel it is a beautiful and brave representation of the author's heart.
Milk and Honey is pretty much a dream come true for emo fourteen-year-old girls who spend their spare time browsing deep, meaningful quotes written in pretty fonts like this one:Also: I am going to argue that this is not poetry.
I've read some excellent books by Ellen Hopkins written in free verse, expressing the lives of troubled teens better than most authors could.
I shave because I like my legs to feel smooth.
This is a serious issue that could have inspired a beautiful poem with a powerful message, but instead, the author wrote two lines that once again made me feel like I was browsing a teen girl's tumblr page.
I absolutely loved this book. It brought me to tears more than once. As women we lose ourselves in other people. We forget that we are worth love and we are important too. I love how she talks about how women are taught to see themselves. This book is a raw look at life, love, abuse, and healing. Recommend to every woman everywhere.
