https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27082.Gipsy_Moth_Circles_the_World
My first attempt to read it ended in failure because the first chapter is all about building and testing Gipsy Moth IV, and it sort of lost me.Now, after reading all Patrick O'Brian's Aubry/Maturin series, Chichester's book was more accessible and understandable, though there was still plenty of sailing vocabulary I didn't get.Francis Chichester set off from London/Plymouth in September 1966 to sail singlehanded around the world in Gipsy Moth IV.
In May 1967 he finished the voyage in Plymouth, sailed on to London and was knighted by QEII with the sword QEI had given to Sir Francis Drake after he completed a circumnavigation.Gipsy Moth IV sits on Greenwich Pier in London today, right near the Cutty Sark.
Gritty, realistic telling of a remarkable feat. Chichester does absolutely nothing to glamorize his experiences under an amazingly grueling set of circumstances. A remarkable, curmudgeonly anti-hero who stunned the world IN HIS SIXTIES. A grumpy inspiration to all...
Chichester's story of his 1966 solo sailing voyage around the world, at age 65.
He did the circumnavigation west to east.
The trip took 226 days with a single stop in Sydney, making it the fastest circumnavigation in a small vessel.
In 1898, Slocum took 3 years with numerous stops, but did the more difficult east to west against the prevailing winds.The book largely covers Chichester's day to day activities.
It is interesting to see how busy he was with numerous sail changes, and numerous maintenance activities.The Gypsy Moth IV was custom built for Chichester but turned out to have a number of sailing faults, such as a tendency to broach.
To think he undertook voyage at age 65 boggles the mind. One of sailing's great men...
I did enjoy this story but maybe I am a little spoiled with some of the other similar tales I have read. It just seems the middle was a lot of sail changes. I realize that's what was actually going on at the time but still boring all the same. That being said it was made up for with some great stories of capsizing and huge storms. you do have to respect anyone who can pull something like this off. I am glad I read this story as it been on my list for quit some time.
An excellent read about and written by a 65 year old man who circumnavigates the world east to west throught the most dangerous and isolated seas including the conquest of the Horn. On top of that, he does it singlehanded in record breaking time.
An outstanding accounting of one man's journey around the world alone. Fascinating and exhilarating. Sir Francis is a wonderful storyteller. His several month trip was filled with tales of dolphins and storms, sail changes and determination. An adventure for a lifetime.
Surprisingly, I had never heard of Sir Francis Chichester or of his book Gypsy Moth Circles the World until I found and bought a copy at the Australian National Maritime Museum in Sydney several years ago.
He then began a career in long distance yacht racing.Gypsy Moth Circles the World is Chichester's account of his 1966-1967 solo circumnavigation of the globe by yacht, beginning and ending in Plymouth, UK, with only one stop in Sydney, Australia.
Again, this information is interesting if you are planning a voyage, but a casual reader might lose interest.Gypsy Moth Circles the World is a book by a sailor for sailors, and by "sailor," I mean one of the very best.
What a challenge an adventure as this would be, and to be able to accomplish a feat as this at an age of 65. Well written account of Chichester's amazing solo voyage. I learned a lot of terminology that I was unfamiliar with, in interest. That's what I enjoy about reading. He frequently uses sailing terms, so for those unfamiliar, you will learn much. Enjoyable read. Well worth addition to your reading library.
Chichester's book details his solo sail around the world, which was the fastest circumnavigation of the globe by a single-handed vessel and it was the longest voyage by a solo vessel without a port of call.
(He stopped only in Sydney, Australia during his voyage to and from Plymouth, England.)His story in interesting and compelling.
Chichester assumes you have sailing knowledge and his book is sprinkled with sailing terminology, which was not explained (at least in the 1968 edition.) I found other books about round the world voyages (including Joshua Slocum's "Sailing Alone Around the World" and Bernard Moitossier's "The Long Way") to be more accessible to a non-sailor.
March 28, 2013: I picked up another copy at the Friends of the Hilton Head Library and re-read this wonderful book as I am just starting boating.
It was as amazing to read as the first time.
I will never tire of this epic voyage.This was a book I picked up at the Austin Public Library Recycled Reads Store.
Though I remembered the story, it was a treat to re-read his first person account of this amazing trip on a 35 foot sail boat.
The story is riveting and so I picked it up and read it through.
Chichester's motivation for solo circumnavigation was utterly different from Slocum's (see: Sailing Alone around the World ).
Even in the late twentieth century it was a big deal, so much of the reporting about his trip was in the front section of newspapers around the world.
His completion of the voyage was front page news.
This voyage being contemporary [of me], I'm a mite less forgiving of the writing than I am of Slocum's much older book but I'd say it's actually quite good and well worth your time.
All the more if you're interested in sailing, adventure, resourcefulness or solitude.
Sir Francis Chichester tells a fascinating and detailed story of his historic solo circumnavigation via the Southern Oceans. From day to day, with changes in the weather and the boat's responses to it, there were plenty of surprises both good and bad. I enjoyed reading this book very much.
Amazing book.
This book, like Kon Tiki, exemplified real adventure for me and my siblings when we were growing up. Loved it and want to reread!
Still like this story. Starts off a bit slow but overall manages to communicate the scale of his journal better than most other circumnavigation stories I've read.
bel libro sull'argomento, a volte molto tecnico come è inevitabile che sia.
great. loves voyage. hates vessel.
An incredible journey and an incredible man. Sir Francis tells the story of overcoming danger and challenges in such a matter of fact way. It is a very old book but somehow does not seem dated.
I could not finish this book as it had way too many nautical terms that I didnt understand.
Visited his yacht as a boy and thought it small. This really brings home the magnitude of his endeavour and evokes a spirit of unassuming adventure that is real hero stuff.
A tale of courage, daring, adventure by Sir Francis...
Obviously an exciting story, but the writing style has aged considerably (Chichester was well into his sixties when he wrote the book). It seemed a bit dry and flat at times.
Really enjoyed this book!
