https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243398.The_Singing_Sands
She tells him she is not in the least surprised and that it is probably his psyche letting him know that he has taken on too much stress at work and too demanding of a caseload.On the train to Scotland, a young man dies in a first-class sleeping compartment and Alan Grant helps the night porter settle the man so he doesn’t fall off the couch before the police can get there.
However, he later discovers that while helping the porter he inadvertently picked up the young man’s newspaper and tucked it in with his own.
It's like knitting, a pleasant past time with many a reader and in fact Tey often referred to her novels as being tantamount to "Yearly Knitting." One might compare this to a comparable story in today's music industry where Taylor Swift who though not exactly shunning the media, steadfastly refuses to discuss her personal life and points her critics and admireres to her singer/songwriter work for the answer to their questions.
It is also one of my favorite book covers because it perfectly illustrates the essence of this mystery novel.And who is Inspector Grant?
Excellent mystery and atmospheric settings in Scotland, I will be reading more of the intrepid Inspector Alan Grant.
(I hate that.) With The Singing Sands, the victim is dead from the beginning, but I still got to know and like him through the course of the book, even as Alan Grant did.
There is a joy to this novel, an air of finality and farewell as Alan puts himself back together again and returns to his life, that makes it fitting for this to be the end of the series, the last of the Alan Grants (though I do have one more Tey book left, when I find it).
Old school mystery with a satisfying wrap-everything-up-in-a-tight-package-at-the-end ending. If you like to know exactly how whodunit done it, this is your book. Feels like I have read it before, but not sure. Not my first by Tey nor my favorite but still very entertaining.
Perhaps my least favourite Tey and that's primarily because much of the first half is concerned with Grant's fishing holiday in Scotland.
The characterisation is strong, as ever, and Tey is probably the best prose stylist of the GA - all the same, we get introduced to a dead man in the opening chapter but the real investigation doesn't gather speed till about midway through.
Once Grant is back in London my interest perked up.
All the same, this is eminently transparent in terms of mystery.
Great atmosphere, though, developed characters, and a sharp style make this still worth a read: 3.5 stars.
I'd rate it perhaps sixth out of the eight, but it's still a great read, and stands out as a character study of her detective, Inspector Alan Grant of Scotland Yard.When he first appeared in The Man in the Queue he struck me as rather bland especially compared to such sleuths as Sherlock Holmes, Hercule Poirot and Lord Peter Wimsey.
In his introduction he accuses Tey of "anti-Semitism, contempt for the working class, a deep uneasiness about any enthusiasm (for example Scottish Nationalism) that, to her, smacks of crankiness."Having recently reread all the books, there are definitely ethnic stereotypes expressed by characters, especially Grant.
Read it years ago. I am a HUGE Josephine Tey fan. I've read all her books, wish she had written more. I need to re-read and write some proper reviews, but I know this one is a five. I actually bought most of her books, now to go find them!
Poorly structured and tiresomely misogynist murder mystery of the 'author fell in love with own main character and just wants to write about him wandering around but the publisher insisted on a plot' type. Not worth the reprint.
In my opinion, this is the best mystery written by Josephine Tey. It is sad for me to think of it being published posthumously.
Rather wonderful that fresh copies were published, and now I know which version to order so I can read many times over in future.
Also rather wonderful that some goodreads subscribers brought my attention back to Tey. Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant is the main character in this book.
Hell was a great cold echoing cave where there was neither past nor future; a black, echoing desolation.
The beasts that talk,The streams that stand,The stones that walk,The singing sands,That guard the way to ParadiseThis cryptic verse sends him on a hunt for the murderer of a fellow passenger on a train he is taking to Scotland. He is travelling there to recover from a nervous breakdown, where he will stay with friends. This verse takes him to the Hebrides, to France, and to London. A classic of the genre. I've read only one other of Tey's mysteries, but consider this the better of the two--unexpected twists and turns galore.Most highly recommended.
I'm sad that I'm almost finished with her books, because they are RICH in imagery and language.
One feels merged with Alan Grant as a character, able to explore all the nooks and crannies of his mind.In this installment, Inspector Alan Grant is ordered by his physician to take some time away.
He goes to his friends in rural Scotland (yay!
It's something he turns over and over in his mind while fishing on the river and spending time with his friends during his rest-cure.
But the real meat of the book is in Alan's thoughts and the slow process of recovering his nerves and sanity.
A light easy read & ideal to complete a year of reading.
There are a few slow portions, but they are in the 1st half.
Get through them, and it picks up to a fun end.The book is very atmospheric and is mostly set in Tey's home world - the northern portion of Scotland and the Hebrides.
The 1st half is more about the recovery of our hero & this is the part that I found slow at time.
She might have tightened it some before publication, but it is most certainly isn't a book to dim her powers as a writer.Ideal lazy day reading.
A scribble in the blank Stop Press section intrigues him: a line of verse that mentions singing sands and talking beasts.It appears the deceased met his end due to a fall while drunk.
But Grant is not quite satisfied.On impulse he goes to Cladda, a (fictional) island in the Hebrides to try to discover the reason for the deceased's seeming obsession with the place.
He also puts an ad in several London papers in an attempt to discover the source of the verse.Gradually he sorts through the misdirections of an arrogant, entitled narcissist who believes he has committed the perfect murder.
A beautifully written and well balanced little mystery following Inspector Grant in his holidays to Scotland, recouperating from illness/injury and investigating a mystery which falls into his lap when doing so.
There is in this a very similar set-up to 'The Daughter of Time' by the same author, though in this case the crime was more current and (1950s, when it was written) contemporary.
As pleasant a read, I'd say that the quality wring was scattered throughout, but that the central narrative felt a little quiet and contrived.
Inspector Alan Grant, on holiday in Scotland, determines to find out in an investigation that takes him out west, to an island based on Barra, where the plane flies in and lands on the sand.
Grant, and through him, Tey, despises Scotland and the Scots.
I'm fairly sure the only reason Grant himself is a Scot is to show the rest of us the errors of our ways.
In this book you can either be an Anglified Grant (BritNat Good!) or a Scottified Wee Archie (ScotNat Bad!) By this point, who cares who the dead man is?
'The Singing Sands' is most assuredly a classic page turning puzzler chock full of twists and turns, adventure, cryptic messages, nefarious characters, mistaken identities, and exotic intrigue. This novel is a classic 'whodunnit' from a true 'mistress of the golden age', Josephine Tey. It is a page turner so well described and so well plotted, that the reader almost forgets he/ she is reading, and not watching the flicker of celluloid on the big screen! Excellent!! Go see it ( I mean 'read it')!!
We must remember that the version of The Singing Sands we have is almost certainly not a final draft, it being a manuscript discovered among Tey's papers after her death.
The solution to the mystery is all a bit hurried and perhaps a tad contrived (the murderer sends Grant a detailed confession, saving him perhaps fifty pages of further detective work), but that didn't bother me.I first read The Singing Sands about 35 years ago, as far as I can reckon.
It's a bitter little book, threaded through with the most appalling prejudice against Scots and all things Scottish.
This is all the more unpleasant when Josephine Tey was herself Scottish.
So was her fictional detective.Over the last few days since I finished The Singing Sands I've really swithered about writing this review.
It seems like professional discourtesy.My other reservation is that The Daughter of Time by Josephine Tey, featuring the same Inspector Alan Grant as The Singing Sands, is one of my favourite books.
There are side-swipes at Scotland and Scots threaded throughout the book.
Inspector Alan Grant’s nerves are frayed and he needs to get away from Scotland Yard for some rest and recreation.
He leaves by train to visit his cousin and her husband on their farm in Scotland, planning on fishing the local waters and relaxing.
His future activities are altered when he discovers the dead body of a young man on the train.
Grant’s investigative instincts kick in and he uses the lines from a poem the young man had written about THE SINGING SANDS to find out who the deceased was and what had happened to him.This was Tey’s final mystery and she produced an enchanting tale.
I read mystery books not for blood and gore, but for atmosphere and suspense. The Singing Sands, like Tey's other books, is very well-written and provides a contemporary glimpse into another place and time: 1950-ish Scotland. As always, the characters are intriguing and the story is suspenseful. Note that this not a traditional mystery in the sense that the clues are all provided fairly early in the narrative. The reader's deductive powers are still put to good use.
Because it'd have been hard to pin it on him and you certainly couldn't have got the facts of how it happened from detective work (hide spoiler)] Even then it makes little sense (view spoiler)[the person who does find this mysterious place apparently found it with help from the dead guy but it's not made clear how on earth this is possible - there's mentions of a plane, which is presumably supposed to be him, but if he was in a plane there why did he need to go to someone to fund an expedition?
Without thinking he had picked it up while taking the dead man out of the clutches of the porter.What was supposed to be a vacation turns out to be a quest to solve a mystery.As usual, Tey's stories are interesting for their psychological portrait of the different characters and all of us Tey fans enjoy Inspector Grant.
None of Tey's stories follow a formula which keep the reader guessing as to the outcome.Unlike Agatha Christie, whose characters I find often flat and unsympathetic (sorry Christie fans), Tey draws characters that are overall nice, normal people.
I liked The Man in the Queue, so I checked out The Singing Sands next.
I didn't know it at the time, but it so happens that "Queue" was her first book and "Sands" was her last.
Given that time lapse, I was a bit disappointed that there wasn't more character development of Inspector Grant.
The mysteries are always brilliant, and the main characters also become much richer over time.
Daughter of Time was actually what I was looking for when I checked out this book, but it wasn't on the library shelf.
Anyway, The Singing Sands was still an okay mystery.
Many of her mysteries were not published until after the second world war but her style is so modern that at first I was not aware she was a contemporary of Christie’s.The main protagonist, Inspector Alan Grant, is off on the night train to Scotland to recover from a nervous breakdown, when his respite is rudely interrupted by what seems like a simple case of accidental death.
The character of Alan Grant is troubled and introverted at times, as are all great detectives.
Having heard all my life of Josephine Tey, it is only now that I've gotten around to reading one of her books, and it happens to be the one mystery novel of her six to have been published posthumously.Her prose is good quality stuff, nicely paced and evocative.
Her characters are amusing and her attitude is thoroughly English.
As an ingredient it was admirable; neat, it was as abominable as ammonia."I've read more gripping styles and more cleverly contrived crimes, but there is no denying the firm success of this story in its quiet way.
Inspector Alan Grant of Scotland Yard is travelling to the Highlands on leave, but a mystery awaits him on the sleeper.Free download at Project Gutenberg Australia
super slow first half but finished really well. 3.5 stars.
Enjoyed the beautiful descriptions in this vintage novel by a Scottish author.
For me this was the best of the Inspector Grant series. Absorbing, compelling, and written effortlessly by a master of her craft. Wonderful.
