https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140094.A_Fool_and_His_Honey
Then Harris adds these mysterious things in his past that do absolutely nothing for the story.
It drove me absolutely crazy.
In the first few books, Aurora wasn't the kind of woman to take that from anyone.
The fact that she does in this book is absurd.On the other hand, this book had one of the most exciting, action-filled, suspenseful plots, especially for a supposedly cozy series.
On the other hand, the ending was absolutely incredible.
I'm hoping the next one will be better, and the ending of this one (paired with the knowledge that her former acquaintance the mystery writer will be returning in the next installment) leads me to believe it will be.
I think I'm just reading these to say I finished the series at this point.
This book finds Roe's husband's niece showing up at her front door with a baby no one knew she had.
The niece disappears, leaving the baby and a dead body behind.
Roe and Martin then head back to his hometown to try to give the baby to some relatives.
Any relatives, I think.There were lots of deaths in this one, an implausible story and again with the final explanation right at the end.
Also, a lot more of Roe feeling sorry for herself and being mad at Martin.
Regina is missing, the baby's father Craig is lying dead on the stairs to the apartment after getting hit by an axe, and the baby, named Hayden, is all alone under a bed in the apartment.Roe, who has been wanting to have a child for years and is unable to, now finds herself responsible for taking care of little Hayden while also trying to figure out what really happened with Martin's family.
It turns out that he is a friend of Craig and Regina, and he clearly knows more than he is willing to say.The three of them end up heading north to Martin's family farm with the hopes of finding out some information that might have caused all of this trouble.
A whole array of core characters have emerged out of Roe's new married life, and most of them seem strange and artificial--not at all organic to Roe's life, despite her marriage to Martin.That problem is pretty much taken care of in the subsequent book, A Fool and His Honey, where the appearance of Martin's niece, Regina, with an unexpected baby in tow, and then the murder of Regina's husband and concurrent disappearance of Regina leads Roe and Martin on a road trip to locate Regina and deposit the baby in an appropriate home.
I don't think I liked this book.
The people are all unlikeable, most particularly the main character.
I appreciated one of the characters actually saying this to her face, but it doesn't seem to have helped as the author kept her very unpleasant.
Also, how incredibly stupid to not go to the police with everything.
You find someone you don't know in your house after someone is killed on your property?
Call the police!
Call the police!
Plus, nobody really knows anybody else in this book--how can they be that emotionally invested?
If that's not strange enough, the erratic behaviour of their dinner hosts adds to her list of worries.However, when they get home from the dinner to find a dead man near their house, Regina and her car gone, and the baby hidden under the bed, Roe's whole life gets turned upside down.All the while Roe's forced to care for baby Hayden as Martin and her travel to Ohio in hopes of unravelling some of the mystery about why Regina popped into their home in the first place, why/who killed her husband, and how the baby fits into everything.This happens to be one of the most confusing murder-mysteries that Roe has found herself in, and it's especially harder because it deals with Martin's family.
Another good mystery, better than the previous book. Surprisingly, after 4 books, she suddenly got over her sudden wrap up, which I found annoying. Instead, she's added a bit more complexity with a second mystery along the way & then stretched out the finale. Still tied up as neatly, but not all in a single page. I liked it much better.
Well, I am starting to recover from the shocking ending which I sure did not expect! She gives plenty of hints but I totally failed to pick up on them. It may take me awhile to get over this. I felt so sad for Aurora.
I really like Aurora.
Along with small town USA sensibilities of course.I just really like the character development and, although these books have aged a bit (Aurora only just got a cell phone which is kept in the car), I don't mind that part of it either.The ending of this one did surprise the business out of me, so I can only assume that Harris felt that particular part of the series plot needed to end (or maybe the readers did).
I'm looking forward to seeing that Aurora gets up to next.
Roe, of course, doesn't even notice that her beloved husband is an inconsiderate ballsack, not even when she asks him a serious question about his past and he distracts her with sex.But the thing I was hoping for ever since she married him actually happens, and (view spoiler)[Martin dies.
I regret nothing.The mystery is totally phoned in, like, everyone's all, "I wonder what's going on here?" But they do a crappy job of asking questions that might lead to some answers.
The book seemed a little disjointed, with the majority of it focused on the disappearance of Martin's niece Regina and Aurora and Martin trying to take care of Regina's baby.
Despite having friends who have plenty of kids, and despite having batted around the idea of having kids of her own, and apparently not absorbing anything from TV, books, or radio about babies, Aurora acts like she has zero knowledge of how to take care of the kid.The whole book was rather unsatisfying, and the ending felt like the book had reached a certain length and had to be ended, so it was finished off as quickly as possible.
A Fool and His Honey is the 6th book in the Aurora Teagarden series.
The Hallmark Mystery Channel is making TV movies based on this series of books.
It was good to be back again with Roe. I was surprised how much I remember from the previous books.The book features strange behavior from a local man who wigs out while delivering wood.
It features an unexpected house guest who also has a baby that was a complete surprise to Aurora and Martin.
It was good to be back again with Roe and it made me realize why I enjoy this series.
I began reading this series when it first came out because Aurora Teagarden was a librarian, as was I.
Also I like the southern charm of the series, as well as the mysteries.
When I started listening, I then noticed that after 10 years it was a new Aurora book, number 9.
So after almost getting to the end, I went to the library to get the the previous books, and managed to get 6, 7, and 8 and spent the next 5 hours reading them.
So this book she is married to Martin and his neice shows up with a baby.
on to number 7.
I've enjoyed the series up to this point, but this book is disjointed and incredibly slow-paced.
Characters aren't developed so much as they are tools to reach a plot point.
There is more casual racism and disdain for those to aren't as together as Aurora Teagarden sees herself.
The number of times the main character complains about the rigors of taking care of a baby is ridiculous, all the while feeling sorry for herself that she cannot have a child of her own.
The very coy way that any sexual encounter is mentioned is saccharine and grating.
This one made me laugh out loud and cry. Both while wedged between people on an airplane! Fave thing about this series is how the author allows major life changes from book to book. Following Aurora's life is a journey.
Charlaine Harris is a great author. I found this hard to put down. Aurora is a librarian and always finds herself in a murder mystery. Her niece leaves her baby with her and her husband Martin. She has to find out why and unravel the whole mystery. She finds herself in quite a predicament.
NOOOOOOOOO!!!! This was a great book, but it doesn't mean that I have to be happy about what happened...I think I actually threw this book at a wall I was so upset...
EEP! I'm horrible at spoiling things, so I won't say much more, but suffice it to say the ending really shocked me. This isn't your regular fluffy cozy mystery! But somehow it still feels like one. Aurora Teagarden has definitely taken its place as one of my fave cozy mystery series.
So I have been cranking through the Aurora Teagarden books.
But book 3 they added Martin.
I loved the chemistry and how much trouble she still seems to find herself in.
It starts off with a good (odd) laugh, which continues to go throughout the book as a women who has never been with a child is forced to watch over a 3 week old.
But nothing is that simple for Aurora.
I laughed, flinched and cried at this book.
CH has an amazing time making you absolutely fall in love or hate the characters she writes.
These are great to read when you have the flu. Even foggy brains can handle them but I have trouble with several things that any good detective (or writer or editor) should have fixed. Roe's BFF's daughter has measles?? There were no measles in Harris County (Houston) in 1999 when this book was written and even so, surly she's not an antivaxer. The baby Hayden is supposed to be 2-3 weeks old and has a social smile and Roe hands him some plastic keys? Ummm... His developmental milestones are way off. And yet, here I go downloading the next one...
WHAT. THE. HECK??!!?!?What was Harris thinking?? I am convinced she was taking some of those little white pills that Ellen What's-Her-Face was drugging people around town with. That's the ONLY way to explain the sheer absurdity of this book. Aurora is written so wildly out-of-character that she is frankly unrecognizable. And the ending is such a huge cop-out that it is as laughable as it is disappointing. I can't even bring myself to give this book one star.
Again, no full review because I read this awhile ago. However, I really loved this one. The end was heartbreaking but it was an A+ book.
This was the first time that I've felt that being bad and reading the backs of future books was actually a good idea.
I remember thinking (view spoiler)[when I saw that Robin and Aurora get married, "oh dear, I really hope Martin doesn't die!" and then going...
"I really hope Aurora doesn't split up with them" and then remembering...
Why????!" (hide spoiler)] In the end, while I didn't see the exact circumstances coming I'm glad I had the warning and was somewhat prepared.
This was the first book where I felt that Aurora was actually relatable and not just some fictional character to be read about.
After an odd incident with a handyman gone bonkers in her yard, Aurora (Roe) Teagarden has an unexpected guest- her husband Martin Bartell's niece, Regina shows up with her new baby that no one knew she was expecting.
When they return home to find a dead man's body, Regina missing and the baby hidden, they are flummoxed.
Desperate to find Regina, and suddenly caring for a baby with absolutely no prior experience, they return to where Regina was living to see if they can find her.This is an enjoyable read, and, one again, quite different than the movie based on it (A Bundle of Trouble), so if you have read all of the series be prepared.
This book seems to put Aurora in the company of several strange, sometimes unsavory people. Nothing much "cozy" in this cozy mystery. Maybe it would've helped if I were reading this series in order, but maybe not. This story line was just kinda unsettling to me, maybe in part because Martin dies in the end. I wasn't particularly fond of him as a character, but still. I'll probably go ahead and get current on this series. One of my wishes for this series is that Aurora's librarian job play more of a role in the series.
5 Stars. I'm literally lost for words that ending I didn't expect. So yeah I didn't particularly think it was a great idea having Roe marrying Martin I didn't like him but he just grew on me and now he died actually felt sad :(.
The sixth Aurora Tegarden mystery starts off kind of weird, gets rather dull, then ends with a bang.All in all, I rather enjoyed it. Not as good as some of the earlier ones, but still a light and enjoyable read.
I was quite impressed by this book. The writing was great. If you haven't started this series yet, please do so!
So far best book of the series. Didn't see it ending the way it did. Not at all. One of the few non HEA I've ever liked.
This Aurora Teagarden was very unexpected. A lot of emotions in this one.
