https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23056.Image_Music_Text
Thinks like an angel, writes like the Devil.
Brilliant stuff. I want to be a French philosopher when I grow up.
Barthes is frequently misinterpreted and the victim of prejudice, especially from the Anglo-American academy [to which I profess allegiance, btw], and like many other continental thinkers is often thought of as plenty more pretentious and, well, obnoxious, than he actually is.
The best thing about Barthes' writing is that it is loose and non-conformist to the usual 'rules' of academic writing; while this tendency can make him harder to follow than the clearer philosophers and critics in the Anglo-American tradition, Barthes is a cut above most of his contemporary continental thinkers and deserves the attention, but scarcely the vitriolic attacks, he receives.
This is a classic work of critical theory by the French writer Roland Barthes. It is by turn illuminating, bewildering, infuriating, contradictory, and revelatory. For graphic designes, the most relevant essays are "The Rhetoric of the Image," about the signification of commercial photography, and "The Death of the Author" and "From Work to Text," about new models of reading and writing. The last two piece in particular had a big impact on experimental design in the late 80s and early 90s. Those were some inventive times.
Inevitably profound, political, lucid and richly personal.I was particularly struck by his idea of 'the third meaning', the obtuse meaning and 'the filmic', something I have never seen or heard mentioned, but ALWAYS EXPERIENCED. It is as if the secret life of art were suddenly illuminated.
It's my firist time to read critical essays so it's alittle bit hard to juge .The firist two article
Roland Barthes on Sound and Vision (to quote the great David Bowie). I can't imagine if you love the cinema you haven't read this book. Do read it, I think it's essential work in film studies as well on aesthetics in general.
If this is only Barthes interpretation, why should we even listen to him?Likewise, he says a Japanese marionette has an aim but what if its aim is not true and the audience does not appreciate all of the values he's assigning to it?
Without interpreting the author, the highly formal Bunraku performances lose meaning.
Barthes has become caught up in interpreting the performer's actions too, even though he says the audience meant not to.
Barthes writes in an extremely prosaic style that is reminiscent more of a poet than a structural philosopher, at once utilising Lacan but also recognising that which goes beyond said structure.
Oftentimes it can therefore be quite difficult to rid of that stylistic flair (in an act of 'summarising', as Barthes would say) but nonetheless, getting through the heavy French-philosophical-writing, one can find highly useful concepts and strategies for cultural analysis and theory.
“the adventure of language, the unceasing celebration of its coming.” I found “Image, Music, Text” while researching my thesis. Through Bond scenes, grocery ads, and Beethoven symphonies, Roland Barthes teases out the weird magic of seeing, hearing, and interacting with culture. The writing is dense and knotty – Barthes trained as a linguist – but the ideas are insightful. His explorations of “the infinity of language” and how photographs are “floating chains of signifieds” are indeed adventurous, lingering with you like charge in the air.
I read a lot of Barthes all at once, and something that seems pretty clear is that this is, so far, the least clear thing I've read by him. I have no idea what the goal or organization of this work is. That said, the first chapter is an excellent structuring of how to begin thinking about image analysis even if I wasn't entirely sold on all the details. It very simply introduces problems that still exist in image analysis.
Maybe add a half star for linguistic balls.
Thought provoking
Memahami pemikiran kritis memang tidak pernah mudah, namun pewahyuan yang terbit setelahnya sangat sebanding.
If i recall correctly, i never saw a single definition of a term, even in "The 'Grain' of the Voice" he only defines 'grain' very late after using it, and only vaguely.Barthes simply likes to let his creative associative powers loose on adjectives, terms and relations, jumping from one to the next, without showing a logical connection between them.And even in The Death of the Author, which seems to have become famous, and whose idea he seems to be credited with, an idea i like a lot, he just mostly writes - sorry - meaningless bullshit.With special interest I mean two things: First of all most of these essays serve to support the theoretic system of semiology, with its own specific terms.
"The Death of the Author"(Some classics are classic for a reason.)
The only other Barthes i've read was MYTHOLOGIES, which I loved.
I loved how rooted that was in the real world, while this book felt completely insular and abstract.
There is one rather obnoxious essay about the difference between the active practice of music and the consumption of music as a passive listener, which seems to me like the work of someone with a very limited imagination of music's power.
I did, however, really like the first few essays about photography and reading images.
Şi Roland Barthes a abordat subiectul fotografiei, în „The Photographic Message” (Image.
Text, 1977), în care vorbeşte despre statutul special al fotografiei: un mesaj fără un cod, imaginea fiind nu o reflectare a realităţii, ci analogul ei, devenind un mesaj denotativ.
Acesta se transformă în contotativ atunci când o societate îi conferă un sens pe care îl crede valid la momentul respectiv.Semnificaţia, în opinia lui Barthes, nu este un dat, ci un construct adus la viaţă de societate şi istorie, depinzând în totalitate de cunoştinţele cititorului/privitorului.
Există însă situaţii în care imaginea rămâne la nivelul denotaţiei, anume fotografia care surprinde situaţii traumatizante.
Cu cât este mai puternică trauma, cu atât este mai greu de trecut la nivelul conotaţiei, arată Barthes.
This time I read "Introduction to the Structural Analysis of Narratives" (1966). Barthes uses linguistics as a model for the structural analysis of narrative and identifies three levels of description in narrative: functions, actions, and narration. Previously I’ve read—and found useful—"Death of the Author" and "From Work to Text." Both of those are short, to-the-point essays. "Structural Analysis," on the other hand, seems to consist of his whole unsorted thought process, rather than the synthesis of his thoughts. I found it an agonizingly slow read. However, I did enjoy that he kept using James Bond as an example.

contains the excellent Writers, Intellectuals, Teachers and the seminal Death of the Author and, as such, is worth reading for those reasons alone. Structural Analysis of Narratives was a bit technical for me not coming from an academic-linguistic background. Walked away from it with the same feeling I get from most of Barthes's writing: a compendium of great ideas, none developed to any satisfactory level of depth. I often get the sense Barthes intended these essays to be provocations and preliminary writing than self-contained or holistic theories.
Migraine-inducing-ly dense, working with concepts tenuously defined a few pages prior in order to tenuously define new concepts - which is partly understandable, when you're dealing with such matters, but not ideal in (post)structuralism. I found Derrida easier to read and more cohesive, which is very telling. That being said, the intelligible bits were thoroughly enjoyable, and I have a feeling other essays would've become as famous as The Death of the Author, had they been as clear and straightforward.
Its been awhile, I remember struggling with Barthes, but the main thing I took away, which drew me to Bordwell's even more opaque "Film Narrative", is the breakdown of narrative into Cardinal points and quotidian points (I dont remember it called that).There were two other dimension, but these were subset to the Cardinal and Quotidian. This part was in the Text part of the essays.Eco's Theory of Semiotics was superior, in fact, I think there is a analogue written with far less worry and algebra in Eco's most masterful tome.
In "getting through the day" we often neglect key distinctions in our lives. For example, we perceive speech as spoken text, and text as reported speech. Enter, Roland Barthes to point out differences between speech and text which are not just academic, but politically important with regard to social change as well (since time-limited speech fails to be dialectical and can only lead to change if supported by timeless text).There is much hair-splitting, but it's worthwhile.
di buku ini say amenemukan teks terkenal "death of an author". di pembukaannya ia mengambil contoh tulisan balzac yang dalam karyanya itu mengambil posisi 'aku', tapi perempuan.dalam pembukaanini ia mau bilang bahwa dalam kisah author sudah hilang, mati dan kisah itu sendiri berjalan mendapatkan penyelesaiannya sendiri.penjelasan mengenai otonomi kisah ini merupakan pernyataan yang penting buat saya.
Another great collection of essays that includes Barthes' famous proclamation of the "death of the author" along with memorable analyses such as "Rhetoric of the Image" and his structuralist investigation of narrative as form. This is a must for anyone interested in French Modernist/Postmodernist literary criticism.
This is another book suggestion from my dad. I remember it on his bookshelf as a kid, and I have his copy with some of his notes in it from 1986 or so. It's interesting how often he and an circle around to some of the same texts. He was also my first introduction to Sam Delaney. He had a copy of Stars In My Pocket Like Grains of Sand in our bathroom for as long as I can remember.
It's sometimes difficult to follow the prose-- I imagine in part due to the translation from French-- but overall worth it because of the depth of analysis and can no doubt be useful to students of discourse. I recommend the two selections: "Rhetoric of the Image" and "Introduction to the Structural Analysis of Narratives."
An expansive effort, addressing TV and film, pop culture, semiotics, literature, mythology, advertising, and more, Image-Music-Text is interesting from cover to cover. But I think "Change the Object Itself" has done more to influence my understanding of literature than almost any other single piece of writing I've encountered. Read this now!!!
I enjoyed a few of the essays in this collection ("Death of the Author", "The Grain of the Voice", and some others). I should probably find another book by him. I have "mythologies" and "camera lucida" but haven't read them yet. Any suggestions?
