https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1333202.The_Red_House_Mystery
Like E.B. White, he could write great stories for adults as well as children.I don't think the edition pictured includes this wonderful dedication page that appears in mine:"To John Vine Milne:My Dear Father,Like all really nice people, you have a weakness for detective stories, and feel that there are not enough of them.
So after all that you have done for me, the least that I can do for you is to write you one.
Here it is: with more gratitude and affection than I can well put down here.A.A.M."If you're a really nice person who has a weakness for detective stories, give The Red House Mystery a whirl.
έκπληξη.Στην αρχή του βιβλίου, όταν γίνεται το έγκλημα, κάποιοι αναγνώστες μπορεί να απορήσουν με τις πολύπλοκες περιγραφές των δωματίων του 'Κόκκινου Σπιτιού', ωστόσο αυτό γίνεται για λόγους 'συγγραφικής' οικονομίας ώστε να αποφευχθεί μια μελλοντική επανάληψη των σημαντικών λεπτομερειών.Ένα αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα που διαθέτει μέτρο, 'γερή' δομή στην πλοκή και την 'αύρα' του 'κλασικού' - μέσα στα 20 καλύτερα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα του πρώτου μισού του 20ού αιώνα (κατά τη γνώμη μου).Υ.Γ.: Δεν είναι τόσο απλή η πλοκή, όσο φαίνεται στην αρχή και στη μέση του βιβλίου.Υ.Γ2: Θα ήθελα ο Μίλν να είχε γράψει και άλλα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα.Βαθμολογία: 4,6/5 ή 9,2/10.
Even though I was on a very action packed holiday, I still think the length of time it took me to read this novel shows I wasn't totally engaged by it.I've read the comments on the Reading the Detectives Group https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/...
& I think their suggestion that this was written as a parody was a good one.
I was a bit obtuse on this, as I read it "straight." Reading it with my sense of humour switched off, I found it long winded, far too many characters early on & I guessed the murderer & (view spoiler)[the victim (hide spoiler)] very quickly.What I did like was the relationship between this book's Holmes & Watson.
A A Milne wrote a little remembered mystery book before he delved into the 100 Acre Wood and created one of the most beloved classic characters in fiction - Winnie the Pooh.
Asked to help, he decides to play Sherlock Holmes, with his friend acting as his Watson.
The whole book is a little tongue in cheek, almost as though Milne were merely trying out the genre as a writing exercise.
However, saying that, it is a very enjoyable read and comparable with other mystery books written at the time.
Had Milne decided to carry the books into a series, I think he could have been very successful.
AA Milne wrote this novel - his only foray into the murder mystery genre - in 1922, during the period he worked as a columnist for Punch magazine and before the Winnie-the-Pooh books were published.
It's a pleasant read, with an attractive amateur sleuth hero and an entertaining if slightly dim sidekick.
However, I have a (probably quite unreasonable) aversion to the lengthy-and-discursive-confession-by-the-culprit device.
I'm not sure that the adventures of Anthony (amateur sleuth) and Bill (sidekick) could have been spun into a series.
Still, I'm glad that Milne had a go at the genre and I'm glad I read his effort.
WHAT a delightful book!!
I really, really enjoyed this little mystery by A.A. Milne.
I had no idea he had written anything besides Winnie-the-Pooh and was excited when this was picked for our book club!
An interesting mystery, dead bodies, intrigue and quirky characters make for a lovely read and keeps you guessing over and over [though I had most of it figured out by the end - that is the problem when you read a ton of mysteries every year; it didn't take away from the pure joy of reading this] until the end.
So glad that I got to read this and I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good mystery!
I loved it then, and so was happy when The Red House Mystery was chosen as a book of the month for the Goodreads English Mysteries Club.
The writing was fun, with occasional Pooh-ish moments – "Perhaps it was true that inspectors liked dragging ponds, but the question was, Did Cayleys like having them dragged?"- But there were a great many moments that stopped me cold, thinking Sorry, what was that now?
In fact, it rather has to be read as undemanding, the sort of thing you just settle in with a cup of tea and enjoy without questioning.
So when I found this title as well as some plays at Gutenberg, I was eager to see what his other work was like.
I was not disappointed in this locked room mystery: it was fun to read: the amateur detective Antony Gillingham and his friend Bill Beverley were quite clever and the solution all made sense, even if I could not work it out myself.
I never seem to be able to in this type of mystery story, even when I am getting the exact same clues....that is why I would be Bill and not Antony, I suppose.
کی فکر میکرد نویسنده داستان وینی-پو (خرس زرده که عسل میخورد!) بتونه چنین کتابی بنویسه!؟داستان معماگونه خوبیه، تعلیق های زیادی داره و واقعا هیجان انگیزه. نثرش ساده س وداستان سریع جلو میره اما سریع به جواب نمیرسی و تعلیقش نگهت میداره. البته میشد جواب معماش رو حدس زد تقریبا از وسطای داستان اما همچنان خوندنش تا آخر هیجان انگیز بود.
It may be that this story was spoiled for me by Raymond Chandler who in his 1944 essay, The Simple Art of Murder, (my review here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) ripped The Red House Mystery to shreds.
Still, I found that all Chandler's barbs were on target: Milne had written a mystery in which the only interest was to solve the crime as a logic puzzle, after all, the characters were uninteresting and unsympathetic, the whodunnit puzzle element was all that was left.
But here, the problem was that logically speaking, the crime was nonsensical and would have been solved in an instant if the police had followed normal police procedures.
I've heard this is supposed to be a spoof but I didn't see it. However as a period mystery it was completely charming. It didn't take itself seriously and that made it completely delightful to read.
A.A. Milne is best remembered for his Winnie the Pooh, but he wrote a lot of other things, like this mystery.
It is a fun book.
It is never much of a mystery who comitted the murder, it’s just a question of why he did, and that is resolved satisfactorily at the end.
The tone of the book is light.
Milne was working for the humor magazine Punch at the time of writing this book, and it shows.
It is in many ways closer to Wodehouse, than Christie, even though it is a mystery.
I wouldn’t put this among the best of the genre, but I enjoyed it just the same.
Who knew that Mr. Pooh wrote murder mysteries? Not me. It was surprisingly good.
It doesn't take long for him to realize that instead of being a supporting player in the police investigation, he can, instead, try out a new profession -- that of detective.And so the game is afoot, as the sharp young man uses his powers of logic and deduction to try and reason out the murder (with the typically plodding help of his sidekick friend).
If you've read many of these kinds of stories, you'll probably be able to figure it out reasonably easily (although I didn't), but the real charm of the book is in the light, witty prose, which carries the reader along effortlessly.
Such a shame there aren't more of these fantastic mysteries.
Which sets the tone: a little bit of escapist fantasy, Winnie-the-Pooh's creator's try at a genre that took off like a rocket in the between-wars period, providing an intellectual puzzle to distract the reader from the fact that their world was up sh*t creek without a paddle.And a very self-conscious stab at the genre at that: Antony, the detective, makes it clear that we're moving around inside a novel with pronouncements such as "I oughtn't to explain till the last chapter." He sees himself as Holmes and his pal Bill as Watson; hilariously the two are always walking around arm-in-arm, which makes the modern reader put an unintended slant on their relationship.
An English-mystery-loving group on Goodreads picked this as their October book to read, so I was happy to give it a go.
I had great sentimental hopes for it, as it's written by the author of Winnie the Pooh.
Alas, it fell far short of my expectations.
The book is a locked-room type mystery, in which a body is discovered in the office of a wealthy country gentleman's house.
The characters were flat, the pacing was slow and way too much of the book consisted of lengthy conversations droning on about various theories of the crime propounded by the amateur detectives.
Milne would eventually find his measure in the hundred-acre wood.“It’s very hampering being a detective, when you don’t know anything about detecting, and when nobody knows that you’re doing detecting, and you can’t have people up to cross-examine them, and you have neither the energy nor the means to make proper inquiries; and, in short, when you’re doing the whole thing in a thoroughly amateur, haphazard way.”The story itself revolves around a young man deciding to solve a crime by consciously, and superficially, employing the technique of Sherlock Holmes.
(Milne played cricket with Doyle.) That he makes many wrong guesses increases the fun.
But he arrives just as a shot has been fired, to find one of the house’s resident, Cayley, banging frantically on the locked living-room door.
“Of course it’s very hampering being a detective, when you don’t know anything about detecting, and when nobody knows that you’re doing detection, and you can’t have people up to cross-examine them, and you have neither the energy nor the means to make proper enquiries; and, in short, when you’re doing the whole thing in a thoroughly amateur, haphazard way.”
Cayley, the man who was banging on the door as Antony arrived, is Mark Ablett’s young cousin, whose education Mark had paid for.
Predictable, but fun.
This is a good, old-fashioned English manorhouse mystery.
The Red House Mystery is not a bad read -- neither is it, as Milne says in his introduction, "very nearly the ideal detective story." It's a country-house, locked-room sort of story, with lots of red herrings, two amateurs playing at Holmes and Watson and an ending that I sort of guessed but not really.
Bill, it seems, is a guest at a house party at Mark Ablett's Red House, and Antony decides to go and see him.
Има такива книги - хем ти харесват толкова много, че искаш да ги прочетеш възможно най-бързо, хем точно по същата причина се бавиш нарочно, защото не искаш да свършват."Тайната на "Ред Хауз"от А.
Книга, която макар и тънка /само 251 страници/ те кара да я четеш бавно, за да се наслаждаваш по-дълго.Признавам, че когато разбрах за тази книга и реших да я прочета, приемах това като един вид предизвикателство.
Беше ми любопитно, а и смятах, също като един човек, чието мнение уважавам, че "бащата на Мечо пух не може да пише зле".И се радвам, че го направих, защото книгата е чудесна.
Може би на това се дължи хубавото усещане, което оставя тази книга.
A fun, classic mystery read which makes me want to pull out more of those older British mysteries which take place in fine homes in small or large villages where people come for long weekends of golf and croquet. And wonderful meals of course (though some of those breakfast foods do sound a bit off-putting to my ears). And then, naturally there is a murder which must be solved by an amateur sleuth. This one definitely had me...I didn't guess it, didn't even really want to. Just wanted to enjoy the ride.
Истината е, че колкото и да обичам приключенията на Мечо Пух и компания, убийте ме, но не мога да се сетя за никакви други произведения от неговия създател А.
И като казах „убийте ме”, говорех образно, но ето че в крайна сметка убийството има.
„Написана през 1922 година, „Тайната нa „Ред Хауз“ е първата и единствена детективска история от автора на „Мечо Пух“ А.
А. Милн.
Тя блести с остроумен диалог, умело заплетена мистерия и интригуващи герои и е считана за класика в жанра на „убийство в заключена стая“.
Готово, издателство „Милениум”, грабнахте ми вниманието!
Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
So, when he decided to try his hand at crime fiction, it was perfectly natural that his mystery would be solved by someone with no detecting background.The Red House Mystery is, naturally, a country house mystery--with the added bonus of being a locked room mystery as well.
Several circumstances do not match this solution, most of all how did Mark get out of the locked room?Milne does his best to stick to the Golden Age rule of presenting his readers with all the clues necessary to solve the mystery.
You know the feeling when you're bored at work and decide that some reading would be nice, but none of the ebooks you've brought with you work on the work computer, so you turn to Gutenberg instead?
Still, finds like The Red House Mystery.I'm one of the probably very few people who chose to read the book without expecting much, Winnie-the-Pooh-wise.
However, what I particularly enjoyed were the few moments of witty teasing between Sherlock and Watson.And last, a quote that captures the essence of The Red House Mystery in just a few short words:"By Jove, what a rum show it is.
Mark informs the other guests of this and sends them off to play golf while he prepares to meet his brother.Robert arrives in the afternoon and is received by Audrey, the parlour maid and taken to the office room on the ground floor.
He decides to assume the role of “Sherlock Holmes” and solve the mystery of the murder of Robert and the disappearance of Mark Ablett.
Also mysterious is the disappearance of Mark, the solution to which comes as a surprise.Unfortunately, this is the only detective novel written by A.
Another two years have gone by; the public appetite has changed once morel and it is obvious now that a new detective story, written in the face of this steady terrestrial demand for children's books, would be in the worst of taste."Aside from this hilarious introduction, the book itself is quite amazing.
The real mystery has more to do with *how* the murder was accomplished, and it is all done very well.
This is part of Goodreads Dead Writers Society genre fiction challenge for May. I realized that I was being way too nice in giving this book 3 stars and rounded it down to 2.
So this is a classic locked room mystery novel that has been better done by Agatha Christie.
Taking place in England, one of the characters in this book, Mark Ablett is having a house party with lots of people whose names I refuse to look up right now.
You have to applaud A.A. Milne though, he pretty much shows you how hard it is to write a locked room mystery novel.
