https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112760.The_Everlasting_Man
Men and women have become Christians solely from reading this one book. If you are not a Christian, beware this book. It will possibly convert you. If it does not, then it will probably irreparably harden your heart. A book to save you eternally or to damn you to hell forever. Amazing.
By 1925, both men were famous authors and their theological skirmishes in the pages of their respective books had sharpened into the form of their two respective masterpieces, Wells' Outline, and Chesterton's "The Everlasating Man."If you've ever had a panic attack combined with headache and chills while listening to a skeptic who says that all religions are equivalent forms of the same old junk competing for the attention of the brainless sheep, or if you've ever been suddenly nauseated by your complete inability to respond when someone suggests that all world religions have a sliver of the truth in them, then you might consider reading this.
I say this because G.K. Chesterton is not aiming to write a pure 'defence of the faith' as it were, but to write a work that better explores the relationship of Christianity to history.
It has become something of a fashionable statement to ignore the relevance of Christianity as it pertains to history and so Chesterton sets out to first explore the concept of God and his role as more than merely just another aspect of mythology and then to explore the relationship between God and man as seen in Christ.Chesterton makes strong arguments and bold arguments.
Despair does not lie in being weary of suffering, but in being weary of joy.""Now each of these explanations in itself seems to be singularly inadequate; but taken together they do suggest something of the very mystery which they miss.
And it does seem to suggest that there might be more than they fancy in these other mysterious attributes of casting out devils or prophesying doom.""There are two ways of getting home; and one of them is to stay there."
He is Our LORD and Savior, Jesus Christ of course and this book about Him is supposedly the best writing by G.K. Chesterton.
Art is a refinement unique to Man and thanks to the explanation here, I will not be able to listen to, read or accept, wild caveman theories again.The Everlasting Man is an amazing book.
I always ask—say—that when I read or listen to something by Chesterton: why don’t I read him more often?
Read this.
January 2, 2018: Actually listened to the first CD before Christmas but wanted/needed to restart due to time lapse.
A brilliant study of comparative religion from earliest known human history to recent times. Chesterton looks at the essence of each religion and what makes them different to Christianity, so that you gradually realise that there is very little in which they can be compared, much less considered similar. There is no political correctness is what he says, if there were, the differences would have been neutralised until everything tasted more or less the same.However, Chesterton may be best read
A brilliant study of comparative religion from earliest known human history to recent times.
Chesterton looks at the essence of each religion and what makes them different to Christianity, so that you gradually realise that there is very little in which they can be compared, much less considered similar.
There is no political correctness is what he says, if there were, the differences would have been neutralised until everything tasted more or less the same.However, Chesterton may be best read in print and not listened to on audio - Audible's only version was appalling: it was read too fast and with a monotonous intonation that did little for the meaning of the words.
The Spiritual History of Humanity9 June 2016 It was quite ironic that as I was reading this book I noticed that a friend of mine was regularly updating his Facebook status with quotes from G.K. Chesterton. Mind you, they weren't any old quotes, they were no doubt quotes that particularly struck him. It is a real shame that he isn't on Goodreads (or has made any mention on Facebook what book he is reading) because no doubt he is reading some Chesterton at this time, I just am not really sure whic
I have read many Christain books in my life, and there are very few that I would recommend, let along give away as presents and not feel that I am ramming Christianity down people's throats, yet both Lewis and Chesterton do not make me feel that way.
I feel that many of the Christian authors out there could learn a thing or two from Chesterton, and in fact they probably should consider having some form of writing classes in today's Bible Colleges.
This suggests that cavemen were little more than animals, and Chesterton doesn't believe that they were – the cave paintings go a long way to prove that.
How to explain what it is like reading G.
K. Chesterton?
It is having your mind blown and your imagination blessed at the same time.
It is sentences that need to be re-read because they are both profound and painful.
It is feeling like you are being put through a ringer but you'll be better for it at the end.
Clever, challenging, encouraging, even inspiring.
That is what it is to read Chesterton.
It took me a summer to get through this one but I highly value the chance I got to really dig deep.
I'll be coming back, that is for sure!
Chesterton is a genius.
Period.
This book, more than most others that are on the subject of Christian apologetics, blew me away.
I can't really put into words anything more than that.
Maybe until I read it again.
My mind was just stretched to its limits in the scope and density of his arguments.
Chesterton covers every argument for Christ & Christianity and its need and place in history.
I recommend this book to any Christian and most especially to any Catholic to read in their lifetime.
At some point, take the challenge.
This is an incredibly rich book which made me wonder if it was, in a way, Chesterton's version of City of God by St. Augustine.
This was made by Chesterton's point about what scientists of the day said was typical caveman behavior (beating women, dragging them by hair, etc.) versus the actual evidence of paintings done in caves.
As one of the main points of Jurassic Park is that scientists make a lot of decisions based on their preconceptions versus actual reality, the caveman argument really hit home.
The Everlasting Man is a strange kind of Christian apologetics, which relates the story of man from the beginning of time.
Chesterton gives a delightful thrashing to the anthropologists who draw amazing conclusions from minimal evidence; emphasizes that whether or not evolution is true, it offers absolutely no reasonable explanation for the vast divide between man and the animals; pokes some fun at the silliness of comparative religion; and teases the historical critics who draw insupportable claims about the origins of orthodox Christianity.
I was actually more engaged at the beginning of the book than I was as it wore on; he seems to apply most of his wit and humor towards the beginning.
There are some writers you must read them to learn what it means to think,what it means to argue,how
Re-read 2018-08-05The first thing I ever read of Chesterton's was a chapter from this book titled "God in a Cave", so I have a great fondness for this books and my introduction to Chesterton.As this is another re-read of this, my love of this goes much farther than fondness. His "outline of history" in response to his friend H.G. Well's book still pertains as much today as ever. This sweeping birds eye view of history presents a rather odd apologetic and a way of seeing things so simple that you pass over them. Masterful and just plain fun.
When I finished I only wished there was more. And I wondered, “Why haven’t I read this before?”. This is a work of history similar in some ways to Atheistic Delusions by David Bentley Hart, though still much different.
It has some of the drawbacks other reviewers have noted--racial epithets that don't go down well in the twenty-first century, Eurocentrism (more below), a style that sometimes obscures the main point.However, these are superficial criticisms.
In fact, Chesterton's point is that it's impossible to avoid the conclusion that history is providential.
Like all cultural epithets, the term "eurocentrism" reduces a complex culture to an insultingly simple stereotype.Chesterton's point is that Christianity is a faith for the whole world, not just for Europe; but it had to begin somewhere, and it found its first flourishing in Europe.
S. Lewis who said: "for me a book is of no use if I don't read it at least two or three times".Well, I only can agree to the uttermost with Lewis.Particularly "the everlasting man" by G.
K. Chesterton is a classic candidate for rereading it several times....The book himself enjoys a classic status.
A masterpiece among many fine works of Chesterton, “The Everlasting Man” brings an everlasting change to the whole notion of “comparative religions”; and reading this great and challenging book will give you a new perspective on the history of the world.
That is the paradox; everything that is merely approaching to that point is merely receding from it.” Any lover of history will gain fresh insight from this book; an agnostic or atheist will find much to ponder; Christians will treasure it as a great apologetic and faith builder; followers of other religions may discover that all paths don’t necessarily lead where they might expect.Enjoy exploring the mind of a master wordsmith, and a writer who crafted incomparable sentences and sublime thoughts!
Chesterton argues that society is degenerating as we move farther away from God, and that history demonstrates this.
Consider as well that Chesterton wrote this in 1925, before Hitler, Stalin, the Cultural Revolution and the Khmer Rouge, brutal exterminations in the name of advancing society.He also argues that pagan religion and mythology as well, are not primitive religions evolving toward a higher religion, but rather stories that replaced the true story as man fled his original knowledge of the one true God.This is one of those books that is humbling in its scope.
This is a masterpiece.
It is a focused walk through the story of mankind.
I think that I will use this with my beginning scholars as an orientation to world history.
I will forever understand that man always begins in a cave.
Chesterton has given me a powerful understanding of why Christ was born in a stable (rather than A field, the woods, a home or a palace).
A few months ago I read an anthropology book in which the author took the position that because there are particulars (particular religions, particular moral codes), we are justified in believing this means we have imagined all universals (God, good and evil).
I think most reasonable people would concede that flint knives and arrowheads by the dump truck load and acreage after acreage of excavation sites might tell us all kinds of things about our ancestors – even what some of their spiritual beliefs might have been - but there is one question they will never be able to answer: whether God exists or not.
His goal along the way is to demonstrate the singular uniqueness of man among the animals coupled with his simultaneously insufficiency in the accomplishment of his own salvation.The points that he demonstrates along the way include the great difference even the most primitive of man shows when compared with any of even the highest members of the animal world; the preparation for the Gospel that took place in the religious thought of the Jews, the philosophy of the Greeks, and the military and political domination of the Romans over the Mediterranean world; and the essential difference between Christ and all other teachers and religious figures the world has ever seen.
I've read this twice now, and I continue to think this is a vastly overrated book.
He is entirely blind to the crimes of Western Culture, and he seems to have sincerely believed that yes, perhaps the Conquistadors weren't so great, but the Aztecs practiced human sacrifice, so it's wonderful that all the indigenous people were wiped out to make way for the West.
Unfortunately, I think it's a big mistake to tout this book as a brilliant apologetic.
I seem to have the strange idea that an apologetic shouldn't mean excusing (and glorifying) the last 500 years of Western exploitation of the people and lands of the planet, and that discussing Christianity shouldn't be an excuse for defending the Old Boys Club.
Especially such a book as this, where he lays into everything modern with all his formidable eloquence.
I always find this aspect of Chesterton somewhat frustrating, and it makes me wonder what so many reasonable people see in him, but I think this is because I'm reading him wrong - he is not trying to tell the whole truth and nothing but the truth all the time, but to use paradoxes to make the reader think through their assumptions.The second part - 'On the Man Called Christ' - suffers from some of the same problems, but is generally much better.
The way he tells the gospel narrative is beautiful and compelling.
Magnificent.
G. Wels’s endorsement of a purely natural view of the evolution of Homo sapiens and of human culture.
I am not a fan of polemics; it only affords access to one side of an argument without the rebuttal of the opposing view.
Although I am a member of Chesterton’s praised group, I frequently wondered about the claims he made about other religious groups and other cultures.
Chesterton’s argument is so multi-faceted that questioning one claim might feel like nitpicking.
But there were so many questionable assertions that it began to feel like literary Jenga, the entire structure seemed endanger of toppling.
Knjiga koja me navela da puno toga promišljam, da stvari pogledam i iz nekih drugih kutova i promislim o njima.
Vjerujem da osobi koja mrzi religiju ovo može doći ili kao veliko otrježnjenje ili je navesti na još veće otvrdnuću srca.Nije dobilo najvišu ocjenu jer se nekim stvarima nije bavio koliko bih ja željela, a što i sam priznaje.
Meni je baš nedostajalo više ulaska u samu vjeru, ali smatram da je to ovoj knjizi baš svojstvenu i da je zato vrijedna, jer gotovo da piše povijest svijeta i kulture na novi način.
Što je i bila Chestertonova namjera na neki način.
Lettura complessa, per la quale è necessario possedere, in egual misura, una profonda onestà intellettuale, una sana libertà di pensiero, un'inclinazione al ragionamento filosofico realmente libera da pregiudizio e la capacità rara di accettare interesse e meraviglia.
La capacità logica dell'uomo, stupefacente, sottende una linearità di ragionamento affilata, velocissima, cui si unisce una gaiezza di fondo non comune.
Non restarne affascinati è quasi impossibile.****A complex reading, for which a profound intellectual honesty is necessary, together with a healthy freedom of thought, an inclination to philosophical speculation, free from prejudice, and the rare ability to accept interest and wonder.
I've read over a dozen books by Chesterton, but The Everlasting Man was one of the toughest to get through.
Written as a rebuttal to H.G. Wells An Outline of History, Chesterton wrote the book to refute the idea that man is merely a part of the animal kingdom and that Jesus Christ was just an influential teacher.Unfortunately the first half on the development of man and religion is quite a slog.
If you can hang on until the chapter on the incarnation, "God in the Cave," you will be richly rewarded with G.K.'s insights into the first Christmas and into the incarnation.
Some of it is simply astonishing.
Essentially, Chesterton sets out to prove that "man is not an evolution, but a revolution." And that any effort to dismiss Christianity as just one among many belief systems falls short of truly seeing Christianity as the oddity that it was and is still.
Chesterton has a way of seeing the world that draws my attention to details I'd overlooked or dismissed, raises questions I've never thought to ask, and helps me find the humor in things I might have been tempted to take far too seriously.
As with all Chesterton, about 1/3 of the book alludes to names, places, or events that are unfamiliar to me.
Chesterton's answer to "An outline of history" by H.G.Wells.
The fact that almost nobody is reading now Wells's Outline (while his SF novels are very well known), but "The everlasting man" is a classic, indicates that Chesterton was successful.
One of them seems to me slightly incorrect: in Part 1 Ch.4, he writes that the Jews "returned to their mountain city by the Zionist policy of the Persian conquerors." I don't think Cyrus's policy can be called Zionism.
On the one hand, Zionism is a twentieth century label; on the other, Cyrus gave permission to different exiled people in Babylonia to get back to their original territory and rebuild their temples, not just the Jews.
