https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475245.Man_Eaters_of_Kumaon
I cant see hunting as a sport.I read a little about Corbett on the internet and came to know that though he was a regular hunter, he turned into a conservationalist and a naturalist.
While reading the book, I came across quite interesting passages like Corbett describing tigers as a beautiful and a proud animal.
It certainly helped me to paint a clearer picture of the forest in my mind.I loved the beginning when Corbett explained as to why a tiger turns into a man eater.
This is the first book I have read about hunting and have thoroughly enjoyed it.
As Corbett patiently explains, humans are not tigers' natural nor preferred prey, and tigers resort to man only if the animal suffers a physical ailment that causes it to seek out an easy target.
Sometimes these ailments are from animal injury or human intervention, regardless of the cause the animals soon begins to prowl for human flesh.Living in a 21st century modern state where the largest predator i know lives 2 hours away, i found the premise difficult to comprehend: how could people even encounter a tiger if they are working in their fields near their homes??
Because normally I wouldn't be all that interested in an old book about big game hunting, presuming it would just be some oblivious early-20th-century white guy plowing through jungles with an elephant gun killing tigers so he could have something to brag about over brandy and cigars.
It seemed like a short, easy read to tackle while traveling, and I thought maybe I'd learn something about wild animals in case of bear incidents.
The book mostly chronicles his work hunting man-eating tigers, a rarity that only comes about when a tiger becomes injured and can't capture its normal prey.

But he finds himself in a very uncomfortable situation, when he has to decide whether he should save the lives of the helpless villagers who are frightened to death by the 'Man-Eating' tigers and are living their lives, afraid of every sound or movement outside their house, or whether he should leave them at the mercy of the Tigers, that develops a taste for human flesh because of certain factors and conditions ( Corbett explains several of the reasons for tigers or leopards becoming Man-Eaters.
So decides to hunt down and kill these man-eating tigers to save the villagers.
And then I returned home to my sister at my spring estate on top of a mountain in the Himalayas overlooking a jungle filled with leopards and tigers and bears and yeti and then I rolled myself a cigarette which I enjoyed with hot tea and goat's milk because I'm a complete fucking bad ass."That's a summary of pretty much EVERY SINGLE ONE of Jim Corbett's ridiculously awesome and damn near unbelievable stories about years of his life spent tracking down and killing man-eating tigers that were terrorizing villagers in the Himalayan foothills of India.Corbett wasn't some pansy trophy hunter who paid a small fortune to fly into a foreign country and have locals lead him right to the most exotic animals so he could shoot them from a safe distance.
Corbett developed a real sympathy for what he calls the ‘jungle folk,’ but never forgot what they were, ‘red of tooth and claw.’He also had a greater knowledge, understanding, and love of India and its people than most of those today who would write him off a ‘colonialist.’ He was nothing of the sort: born and raised in India, he never saw it as anything but India.
He shoots rogue man-eaters because his greater sympathy is with the Indian people they kill, but he is at pains to point out that such behaviour is unusual in tigers and he respects those he shoots.
Yes, some of these were man eaters that posed a problem to innocent people.
But the thing I noticed was most of these became "man eaters" because someone like Corbett tried to shoot them for no reason....
So basically he was killing tigers for eating people that were only eating people because they were shot by other people for no reason.
Not to mention this is a man that sat over kills and shot animals when they came back to eat....
not only "man eaters"....
many innocent cats.
And shot cats in their sleep.
The book is pretty good....
"The Man Eating Leopard of Rudraprayag" was a better book by Corbett.
A comprehensive narration of the experiences of Jim Corbett in the forests of North India.Thrills us to the core.
Walking alone in search of man eaters, spending days and nights waiting over a kill, and surviving all seasons and dangers created by these sometimes clever animals - and the vivid expression of those experiences makes him unique.Its hard to see another person of his stature and gut anymore in India.
Also für ein Buch über menschenfressende Tiger ist es ganz schön unspannend geschrieben.
Corbett bindet ein Ochsen oder eine Ziege als Köder an die Stelle, wo als letztes ein Mensch gefressen wurde und klettert auf einen Baum, um dem Tiger aufzulauern.
Er hatte die Geschichtensammlung ursprünglich 1935 für Freunde geschrieben und sie dann später doch noch als Buch veröffentlicht.
Man kann schon ahnen wie adrenenalinreich und extrem anstrengend die Tigerjagd gewesen sein muss.
Jim Corbett war zunächst Jäger und tauschte später sein Gewehr gegen eine Kamera und setze sich zunehmend für Naturschutz ein.
Sein Leben muss unglaublich abenteuerreich gewesen sein und hätte definitiv ein besseres Buch verdient.
The book is engaging though you sometimes get a feeling that you are reading the same story all over again with minor changes.
The background of each tiger is given, what were its infamous exploits, what has made him/her walk down this shameful path of infamy, what were the author's encounters with the man eater and so on.
You get a feeling that you are reading a thriller and not a book on hunting man eaters.
So many times the author is being hunted by the same man eater whom he is intending to hunt down.
Jim Corbett details his adventures hunting man-eating tigers around India in the 1920's.
He relates his stories in a humble way, but surely he must have been lauded as the greatest hunter of his day.
Still, he adheres to the highest standards at all times and is a hunter and outdoorsman of the highest order.These stories are told humbly, but are real-life chess matches resulting in life and death.
Corbett stares into the face of a more than one tiger and felt he had no business being alive to tell the story, but for skill and a huge dollop of luck.Simply told yet with enough detail to easily imagine what it was like, the I was completely riveted by these stories.
I first read this book many many years ago and it stayed in my mind.
Recently one or two things raised it in my memory and I decided it would be good to read it again while waiting for another book to arrive.
Given that this was written in the middle of the last century about events in the first half of that century it is remarkably readable and timeless.Jim Corbett was a sportsman (hunter) who took to hunting man eating tigers (and other wildlife) in the foothills of the Himalaya.
I plan to look for one or two other books written by him too.
A comprehensive narration of the experiences of Jim Corbett in the forests of North India.Thrills us to the core.
Walking alone in search of man eaters, spending days and nights waiting over a kill, and surviving all seasons and dangers created by these sometimes clever animals – and the vivid expression of those experiences makes him unique.Its hard to see another person of his stature and gut anymore in India.
Absolutely fascinating account of one man's experiences stalking some of the most dangerous animals in India-man eating tigers!
I loved Jim Corbett's neat and concise way of writing.
His descriptions were minute and not one bit boring.
I couldn't imagine facing the danger he did, months at a stretch, wondering if the next step would be his last.
He has such a deep love for nature too, and a keen enjoyment of the little things like a birds nest, or trout stream that make one feel he is talking to a friend.
A place of honor on the shelf for this one!
हर अंत के बाद एक शानदार शुरुआत होती है।हर रात के बाद के सुनदर सा सूरज निकलता है।हर जंग के बाद विजय क
हर अंत के बाद एक शानदार शुरुआत होती है।हर रात के बाद के सुन्दर सा सूरज निकलता है।हर जंग के बाद विजय 
Corbett's vivid descriptions of the hills, valley, ravines, flora and fauna are greatly helpful in bringing the scenery to life in the reader's mind.
It is evident from the many brushes that he has had with these man eaters that he has been able to escape relatively unscathed only due to his extremely cautious nature and the respect he has for what he calls the "jungle folk".
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a thrilling read about how man eaters used to terrorize villages almost a century ago.
The fact that struck me when I was a few pages into this book was how well Jim Corbett understood the jungle.
He understood nature more that most of us ever will.
And he hunted man-eating tigers.
If that isn't heroic, then nothing else is!Man-Eaters of Kumaon is a collection of incidents documented by Corbett himself during the twenties and thirties in the Himalayan foothills.
Tigers are not natural predators of man.
They turn man eaters because of injuries, loss of habitat, hunger and a variety of other reasons.
The man is an institution in himself.
As I said before in the review you didn't get to read and that's now spread among the random electrons of the internet, this book is far too good to have been read as I did, just to get it done and back to the library.
I have a situation here where I'm involved in a couple of group reads and also a dozen (or more) library books showed up at once.
Thus...I rushed it.Still this is (if you're at all into outdoor reads) an intensely interesting book.
The stories in this both of the hunts and the stories exchanged in the book are great.
A good read, but written in a time when hunting big cats for sport was thought to be perfectly fine.While I could stomach the stories about man eaters he tracked down and killed, I was repelled by the ones where he would shoot tigers just for sport and collect 'trophies' of their skin.
Hunting by these 'sahibs' and unchecked poaching is what has made the tiger a near extinct species today.
These stories serve as a reminder of the glorious time when India's jungles were teeming with these wonderful creatures, and also gives us one of the reasons why that isn't the case any more.
The narrative is gripping, and learning about hunting styles of yore was fun. Unlike game-hunting killing man-eaters is the task for a highly patient and sensible person. I read a few of these stories in the dread of the night while being alone in a homestay inside a forest, so I could understand Corbett's own anxieties as he stalked the man-eaters. But despite knowing that the tigers killed in the book were addicted man-eaters, each kill of Corbett's broke something in my heart. Tigers are among my favourite animals - the grace, the pride, the regalty of their carriage...!
Jim Corbett is widely considered to be the greatest hunter-conversationalist in nineteenth century. This book is a collection of stories of man eater from the Kumaon region of modern day Uttarakhand where Jim spent about two decades shooting tigers that had terrorized the locals.What I particularly loved about this one is Corbett's superb description of the topography as he went about shooting the tigers. The details are top notch; it literally tele-ports the reader right in the middle of the action.Highly recommended for nature lovers!
Read it again after over 15 years...as good as I remembered it to be... particularly enjoyed the arduous stalks in the case of Chowgarh and Thak...JC is a great storyteller...will try the next book in the hope that it does not become repetitive
The book overall is very good. Some very good suspense moments but for me it was tough to imagine the landscape that was described by Jim Corbett.
I despise hunting as a sport and a Tiger is a magnificent animal.
But I don't intend to bore anyone reading this review with my opinion on the book's subject.This was quite an awesome read.
Though Mr. Corbbet, as a hunter, often misleads his prey, he follows a no-nonsense approach as an author.
There is nothing in this book about the author's past or his personal life or even his opinions for that matter.
It's all about the hunt and he puts us right in between the gun and the beast.
But such faults are small compared to the thrill that this book gave.
Everybody has heard about Jim Corbett (we have a national park named after him after all), but the book gives so much insight into Jim Corbett and his love for the jungle.
But what stands out is his love for it, every hunt every story is described with much detail and panache and you can't help but be drawn in - in the dense jungles of North/North Eastern India, it's flora and the fearsome man-eaters within.
All in all a good read though, for Jim Corbett's love for the jungle if not anything else!
A great look at a true story about a time and place that are both far away - the adventures of a hunter who was called upon to track and kill man-eating tigers in the jungles of of India.
There is now a Corbett Tiger Reserve in India named in his honor.The chapter on Robin, Corbet's hunting dog, is by itself worth the price of the book.
He is rising thirteen years now, and all the gold in India would not buy him."The only problem with the book is that the Kindle version is very poorly formatted, so get the print version if you can.
One of the best books I've ever read.
Jim Corbett should be the inspiration of all youth; his courage and love for nature and fellow man are unwavering, which pressed him to face grave dangers all by himself.
The brutality was described in a matter of fact way, not over the top for the sake of sensationalism, and not once did Corbett praised himself, nor did he pride himself in killing these animals.
Overall I cannot say much about this book except that it was utterly amazing, and a must read for everyone who liked adventure stories.
What makes Jim Corbett's "Man-Eaters of Kuamon" so wonderful is his eye for detail. Corbett traveled on foot across India hunting man-eating tigers from in the 1920's and 1930's. His book, not only reports his adventures stalking tigers, but gives a great sense of the jungle and a small taste of the people living in the region. His tales are so descriptive, you can really imagine yourself next to him hearing a tiger's roar disconcertingly close by as you're crouched in the bush or up a tree. Very entertaining reading.
A classic account of Jim Corbett's expeditions to hunt down man-eater tigers of Kumaon. While reading the book, it seemed I have been transported to 1930s, where everyday chores like collecting firewood in a man-eater infested area is a dare, where the whole villages were evacuated and economic activities came to a standstill owing to menace of man-eaters.
