https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183742.The_Animals_of_Farthing_Wood
Although this book is one of quite a few in the series written by this author for youngsters, I do have a weakness for animal stories written for all ages.
The recurring themes I like in many of these books are similar in that they are all quests of some sort or other where the goal is to reach a better place or to conquer some sort of evil and triumph.
What is not to like about these books.
The Animals of Farthing Wood was easy to read for the second time and a superb story for youngsters "from nine to ninety"
I first read the books when I was about eight or nine when the second series came out on TV.Lately I bought myself the DVD of The Animals of Farthing Wood – only available in Germany weirdly enough but you can watch the English version rather then having to learn German.
In the cartoon series, many of the book’s characters have had a sex change.The Animals of Farthing Wood is quite similar to Watership Down albeit aimed at younger children.
This showed his maturity and his spiritual eye was open; noticing how, 'All works for good...'The courtship that took place between Fox and Vixen was admirable.
I loved how Fox admired and respected Vixen's inner and outer beauty, and the way she was not quick to give her heart away, but asked him to prove himself to her before cleaving to him.
It was all so virtuous and delightful; such a good example give to young minds.I also enjoyed the message that went with every animals uniqueness: we all have a place and a part to play in life; no matter how small or large; weak or strong.
Voi sitä nostalgian määrää, jonka kirjasta voi saada: löysin teoksen vasta aikuisiällä, mutta katsoin siihen perustuvaa animaatiosarjaa lapsena. Samanaikaisesti kauhea ja ihana teos, joka piti otteessaan alusta loppuun, vaikka onkin kohdistettu lapsille.
Kid me reading this: oooh, Fox is the cleverest and the handsomest and the bestest hero ever! *hearteyes*Adult me rereading this: What an insufferable, condescending twat. I am exclusively here for Adder making sarcastic comments and saving lives on the sly, then being really mean to them when they try to thank him because emotions are gross. #SlytherinsRule
A gripping, exciting and emotional story where the Animals of Farthing Wood must leave their home because of humans destroying the land to build houses.
The lives of animals are lost, and they meet new friends along the way that join them on their journey, but will they make it to the safety and sanctuary of White Deer Park?A truly great story that keeps you hooked from start to finish, I recommend it highly.
The message was well intended, but too much made about human fellows and less about the animals.The charm of even Beak of the Moon [it did resort to some heavy handedness about sheep] was the lives of these animals were their own.You got to know about each animal in Farthing Wood because their name was their species and for all females, mate.
I love a story that is full of drama, action and adventure and this tale has it in abundance which was also similar to other stories that i loved as a child/ teenager such as 'The Wind in the Willows'and '101 Dalmations' and even 'Watership Down' which are all similarly beautiful adventure stories that contain animals rather than people as the central focus points.
It is a book that i have cherished and loved since a young child when i first beheld it (at aged 10 or 11) and one that i still truly love just as much even now, as it is just so emotive, heartwarming and beautiful that i cannot help but keep re-reading it time and time again.
I first learned of this series when i watched it on video a while later i got the book and read.
I've found the book better then the video's in many ways.
Especially how in everything the Animals did there was a risk of death.
Poison, choking and getting ran over or almost ran over, is only a few ways that Dann shows the dangerous side to the story.
Although it can be see as sexiest when regarding the females of the story...
the animation did change that though.
This is a beautiful book aimed at children, detailing the destruction of Farthing wood and the migration of the animals living there to a new safe place to live. Teamwork, co-operation and a respect for life is taught in a magnificent story.
It was wonderful to jump back in the world of these animals. I watched the cartoon tv-show 'Beestenbos is boos' religiously as a child. The book brought back memories!
Süß, aber tragisch, aber auch unerträglich heterosexuell für n Haufen selbstorganisierter Tiere, v.a. im Epilog, nahezu heranreichend an den berühmten Hetenepilog von Harry Potter 7. Die Kreuzotter ist die Beste.
The Animals of Farthing Wood would soon have no home since humans were consuming it. Frog comes back with the tale of White Deer Park a natural reserve where it safe. And so the journey begins for the Animals of Farthing Woods. The book has a realistic view on how the animals struggle to survive with us around. Like the Fox hunting which the animals find cruel and a struggle for their survival.
I loved it, watched it many times, even in my adulthood; my mother did too.Skip forward a decade or two and I find out it was based on a book all along.
It was good, I was pleased to see that the TV adaptation stuck fairly closely to the book in terms of the plot, so I recognised all the scenes and characters.
The TV adaptation converted a number of major characters to seemingly female roles, at least that's how I remember them (Owl, Adder and Weasel - all males in the book).
I loved the TV-series as a child, and I loved the book even more.
I never gave much thought to Kestrel as a child (having a huge soft spot for the foxes at that time) but he as well is truly wonderful in the book.
And Whistler!
Ahh, the ever joyful Whistler.
I'm trying to get my hands on the sequels (I thought they were on their way to me along with this first book, but it turned out they couldn't be ordered - I HATE it when that happens) so with some luck, I can enjoy the rest of these amazing animals' adventures soon.
As their home of Farthing Wood is being torn down by humans, the inhabitants of the forest must put aside their differences and embark on a journey to find refuge in a natural reserve several weeks of travel away.
This is the basic gist of this book which, at a first glimpse, might look like a rehash of Watership Down, except with all kinds of animals instead of just rabbits.
The story is actually quite nice for a children's book, though for me it sometimes jumps too easily between the whimsy and the gruesome (be prepared to explain the concepts of death and the food chain, if you're reading this to a small kid) and is sometimes explicitly preachy.
So my deep love for all the characters in the Animals of Farthing wood, started as far back as I can remember.
In fact I can't remember a time I didn't love this story/characters within it (I even love the characters I dislike).
I was originally exposed to it as the animated cartoon series.
I loved it just as much as I love the animated series.
It's a great book for any person who loves 1.
A great story and 2.
Loves animals.
It's a great book to read to young children.
So far this book has been good, but the names of the animals are too generic.
There are other Field mice with him and his name is too generic for older readers who have read books like Warriors or Ratha's Creature.
But for younger readers the names are just fine.Also I think for a while I was a little bored with it but it gives an animal's eye view about human impact and so forth.
No animal really died in the story except for maybe the Lizards and the Pheasants but besides that there were no major deaths which is good for young readers.So overall I think this book would be good for all ages including young readers (3rd grade and up)
Animals dying every other episode, poisoning, animals being cooked by humans, animals eating each other, a blood feud, a snake being torn in half, another snake being choked to death by a rat and so on.
You know, for kids!This book is about a group of animals who decide to go on an epic journey once their home is destroyed by humans.
They decide not to eat each other and instead band together to find a new home.
Along the way they encounter many perils and ultimately learn about friendship and courage.It's a great conversation starter for kids and an interesting look into animals and how encroachment of humans can affect them.
This story is written in a perspective from animals.
The most curious thing in this story is that the carnivore such as fox and badger are acting as a group with herbivore such as rabbits and field mice.
I like this story because this story tells the expression or thoughts of animals which we usually cannot understand.
Moreover, they try to help each other even though there is a boundary between carnivore and herbivore animals.
I strongly recommend this book to people who likes animals and adventure because the whole story is about animals' adventure and the story have many suspense parts.
Seriously, why does this book have so little reviews?
This was one of my absolute favorites growing up, both in book form and the awesome TV show.
I just wish there was a more readily available DVD version, so I could watch it completely again!Basically this book shares many characteristics with other childhood favorites of mine; animals that speak and don't act like animals, animals escaping danger at the hands of humans, and epic storytelling.
A fantastic book, and actually the start of a really great series.
I have long tried to hunt down the rest of the books, but I only own three.
This book is about a group of different animals that live in the forest called Farthingwood. Humans are trying to cut their forest down, and they must escape, leaving their comfort zone and home. They wondered out to find a new home and through their journey they encounter lots of danger. The animals show courage and friendship, by always helping each other and finding a way out of their troubles. A great book to show the importance of friendship and good relations, also a great look into how animals may feel when forests and habitats are being destroyed…
A lovely nostalgic re-read from my childhood. It's quite a dry and formal tone so I can't believe that I read and loved this as a kid. And I remember the tv show too which was like the Game of Thrones for kids in the 90s- main characters getting suddenly killed off!
God I want to watch the show again.
Whilst a enjoyable read, I felt it went on far too long in the end and just kept thinking throughout can they just hurry up and get there now. Lovely story idea just needs to be a shortened
Review originally published on Flayrah.Though first published in 1979,  The Animals of Farthing Wood  played a fairly substantial part in my childhood. I didn't read the book, but I eagerly awaited the animated series to follow the animals' journey, supplemented by the episodic magazine released in tandem. In my early teens, I picked up an abridged version of some of the sequels, but it was only recently that I managed to obtain the original novel by Colin Dann.The book chronicles the journey of
In my early teens, I picked up an abridged version of some of the sequels, but it was only recently that I managed to obtain the original novel by Colin Dann.The book chronicles the journey of the animals of Farthing Wood – driven from their home by its destruction to make space for human development – to the fabled White Deer Park, a nature reserve across the country.
The party is led by Toad, who was captured by humans, escaped and made his way through White Deer Park back to Farthing Wood.While the book is easy to read and clearly aimed at children, it does not hold back and try to coddle them from reality.
Tajusin vasta pari vuotta sitten (kun luin lukupiiriteoksena olleen Richard Adamsin Ruohometsän kansan), että sarja pohjaa Colin Dannin teoksiin, joista vain ensimmäinen osa on suomennettu.
Kun kaikki eläimet ovat yhtä mieltä pakomatkasta, ne vannovat valan olla syömättä toisiaan ja auttaa pienimpiä.
Kaikki eläimet eivät nimittäin selviä pitkästä vaellukksesta kohti Valkopeuran puistoa, mutta matkalla tavataan myös uusia eläimiä, jotka liittyvät joukon jatkoksi - yksi näistä on Viheltäjäksi kutsuttu haikara, jota on ammuttu siipeen.
Suosikkini animaatiosta oli nokkela kettu, joka myös kirjassa on paljon esillä.
220)Teos edustaa hyvin 1970-luvun lastenkirjallisuutta, joissa luonnonsuojeluteemat ovat vahvasti esillä.
Kaukametsän pakolaiset on kestänyt yllättävän hyvin aikaa, vain parissa kohtaa jäin ihmettelemään, mitä jokin sana tarkoitti (mm.
This book to me meant a lot as I live in the country side, it brought a lot to light like the fact that anytime we destroy land we also destroy homes of innocent animals.
It was a very exciting but also sad in some parts.
I would love to find something like it as it is one of the only books I have really loved and could go on about for a long time about.
It made me think about all the times that humans have made roads or built houses or even just cut down a few trees how damaging it can be to wild animals.
Absolute rubbish! I loved the cartoon when i was small, but this just missed what the animals are. Let's just stick with the steryotypes: wise owl, sly snake, clever fox. Then let's ignore that they mostly make a meal of each other, I'm sure an oath would solve that problem. The only way I could get through this book was by adding an imaginary prequel where a bunch of Englishmen and their families were unexpectedly turned into animals and dumped in farthing wood. Rather!
I enjoyed the plot of the book. However, I think the pace and build up was quite slow for the simple plot. I enjoyed how there were many simple obstacles relatable to animals such as; hunters, motorways, deep rivers and fires. I would've liked the plot to be a bit pacier as it took 31 chapters for the characters to travel from Farthing Wood to the Deer Park. Despite my personal criticisms, I would still recommend this book to children.
