https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785760.Celtic_Mythology
They way it was written gave the impression the reader already had some knology of Celtic mythology, referring to thing that weren't explained or talked about previously. As this was basically the first thing about Celtic mythology I've read it wasn't the best place to start.
I think this would be a good book for people with a solid grounding in Celtic mythology. As I don't know very much about it yet, I found this book completely confusing.
You better brush up on your Celtic legends before reading this. It's more of an analytical study on how these stories could have developed and how they relate to one another. Very grounded in history and sociology. A bit of a dense read, but it made for good research for my upcoming book!
it has lots of interesting pictures and is copiously referenced.
the prose is dense and the stories are told in bits and pieces, so that you don't a picture of the myths as works of literature.
one of my greatest pet peeves in this book is that as the author presents the myths and legends, if he's discussed one under a previous topic, he will simply refer back to that topic without a cross-reference, so you'd have to search the text to develop any kind of continuity in the stories.
the author has a definite bias against the spiritual relevance of his material.
This was a very interesting book!
Such interesting stories.
I have written a short story about a "magical basket" that fills up with food again after it's empty and I was surprised to learn that there is a similar story of a "magical basket" that refills with food in Celtic legends.
Also, I am a HUGE fan of the Arthurian legends, so I really enjoyed the chapter on King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table.
I was surprised by the author's statement that Arthur had "little to do" with the Holy Grail.
Overall, a fascinating book that I could not put down.
It was a bit confusing. Still it is a good reference if you are into this kind of thing
For a more in depth review check out my website: Celtic Mythology
The most boring, confusing book I've every attempted to read. For scholars of Celtic mythology only.
