https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17673307-neanderthal-seeks-human
I don't review books I don't like.
I know when other authors rate my books poorly and write a critical review it always ticks me off and, frankly, feels a little suspect.
I read some reviews of this one before posting my own and I was stunned at some of of the criticisms.
Which brings me to another criticism of the book.
I know every book isn't for everyone, but this book was incredibly well-written, intelligent, funny, and just GOOD.
And I like good books to get good reviews.
5 ‘by the mighty power of Thor’ stars!!! Neanderthal Seeks Human really is a smart romance. Smart, funny, sexy and all around wonderful! I listened to this on audio and towards the end found myself doing extra housework and keeping busy just so I could finish it! It was one of those addictive reads I didn’t want to put down! Janie Morris is one of those heroines you want to be BFF’s with. She’s quirky, intelligent, hilarious and just so fantastically random. Janie has been having a rough time. A
The only upside of all this is that Quinn ‘Sir McHotpants’ Sullivan, security guard, gets to watch it all.
Quinn is that guy Janie ogles at work.
Janie is still awkward as all get out, but Quinn finds it endearing.
When Janie starts working at a new job, with guess who- Quinn, things get a little tricky.
I especially loved how relatable Janie was.
I can’t wait to continue on with this series, and I’m especially glad there is another Janie and Quinn book!
“God, Quinn, you have no idea how permanent I’d like this to be.
I was smiling like a loon while I listened to this story during my daily commute.
Right from the start, I felt like I had been pulled into Janie's orbit.
In fact, she's kind of weird...but in a totally endearing way.
So, the story starts with her "worst day ever".
As Janie and Quinn's relationship starts to get serious, some truths come to light that threaten to ruin everything.
Meanwhile, Janie's crazy sister is wreaking havoc and her cheating ex-boyfriend is determined to work his way back into her life.
This story was a good time and a great way to pass some time.
The thing I HATE about romance books on Goodreads is they always receive this insanely high star rating that is not at all accurate (50 Shades)! It makes me soooo mad!  No, wait, let me calm down and go over the things I liked:1. It wasn't too bad insta-love which was unusual for how cheesy this whole novel actually was.2. The protagonist could have been interesting. In a way she was very unique and different.3. Okay...well I guess that was all I got.Things I hated:1. The writing was awful. Gram
(view spoiler)[Janie literally ended up with a man just like her ex-boyfriend.
The combined pressure of performing at the client meeting and proving I deserved to work at Cypher Systems along with the thought of seeing Quinn for the first time in a week, now as ‘the Boss’, caused my stomach to became like the hair trapped in bubblegum- heinous, untenable knots.GROSS.Abruptly, he wrapped the long fingers of one hand around my neck and, before I could think or react, he dragged his mouth over mine then ransacked.His tenderness- of his voice, touch- filled me with the acute need to invade the silence.
A lot of guys, and, I mean, a lot of guys, like the big boobs, small waist, big butt, long legs, amazon woman thing you have going on." ► She RAMBLES - think verbal diarrhea and maybe Quinn thinks it's cute, I mean, GOOD FOR YOU MAN, but personally I found it obnoxious and I just wanted for her to shut the hell up.
They're by no means "Descartes-based musings".
I'm sorry, Quinn isn't a bad guy and is yummy, I guess, but he IS controlling on many occasions.
This book is described as a "smart romance," when in reality it is simply the typical trope of the billionaire/millionaire player guy with baggage who doesn't want to settle down for anyone but makes an exception for his special snowflake, who happens to be a naive, virgin-esk young girl.
I listened as an audiobook, which was nicely narrated, and I felt like nothing happened!
It is a loooong audiobook, over 14 hours, and I literally couldn't take it anymore at about 10 hours.
Sure, I enjoyed when Jane spouted some obscure facts and was entertained by her oddities, but that can only take a book so far.
After an embarrassing escort out of her office building by the super sexy "Sir McHotpants" (Quinn) security guard and random limo ride home, it's official.
Janie has quite the group of crazy friends.
They like to get together in their knitting group...although Janie doesn't knit, and really, this is the only time knitting is involved in any way shape or form.
And this is Janie and Quinn's journey...it's crazy and nerdy, full of inane facts that you will likely never use in real life, but seriously...this was so much fun.
3 long winded stars  Mild Spoilers aheadI really thought I would like Neanderthal Seeks Human more than I did. All my friends loved it and here I am again the minority, because I really didn't get into this read. I read some reviews that said this book was so funny, but I didn't laugh, not once. I kept wondering if I was reading the same books as everyone else. It's not that I hated the book, because I didn't. I sat after reading this book for 12 hours to try to figure out why I just didn't conn
I sat after reading this book for 12 hours to try to figure out why I just didn't connect to this book and I only thing I can think of is it's too long winded.
See when I started the book I really liked Janie.
On top of that I never got a good feel for Quinn as he was hard to read.
We never got his pov, and had to learn about him through Janie who was socially awkward.
Still it wasn't a bad read and I think if the book was shorter or it had dual pov, maybe a few less Janie mind rants and I would have enjoyed it much more.
4 **Hotty McHotpants** STARS  “Men should come with manuals, subtitles, and reset buttons.”  I'm still smiling. So adorable and cute and funny and weird. A really fantastic read or listen if you will. I did a little mix of ebook and audiobook here and it was delightful. The narrator had an amazing voice and I really enjoyed listening to her. I actually lost quite a few hours over the last two days being sucked into Janie's world and I don't regret one second of it.Neanderthal Seeks Human was my
I actually lost quite a few hours over the last two days being sucked into Janie's world and I don't regret one second of it.Neanderthal Seeks Human was my very first full Penny Reid book.
She just got fired from her job and then on top of that Mr. Hotty McHotpants decides it's the right day to talk to her for the first time.
Janie catches his eye as he works in her office building as an afternoon security guard and on that faithful day she gets laid off Mr. McHotpants escorts her out of the building.
3.5 stars Sir Handsome McHotpants This was a fun read. Some LOL moments. A quirky, nerdy, shy girl and a sexy, hot alpha male.  You are beautiful even if you don’t believe it Some misunderstandings along the way.THERE IS SOMETHING SPECIAL ABOUT CHICAGO ... (THIS ONE'S FOR YOU, MIRJANA)A great bunch of friends  It means my brain finds you more interesting than all the really interesting trivial facts I could be contemplating or researching at present
When I told Penny that I was reading her book, *chuckles* she flipped out!
This was not a 4.5 star read for me...It was a straight out 5!I'll tell you exactly what I liked about this book.Firstly, Janie.
She's just FULL of random facts and knowledge, which not only was intriguing but she decided to pull the randomness out at the most awkward times which led to me having to set my kindle down to LAUGH MY ASS OFF!!!Secondly, Quinn.
I found myself re-reading sentences just to take them in further because this book is just SPECIAL.
It's seriously on my all-time faves list now.
You know sometimes authors fill a book with sex and write their story around that.
3.75 really cute stars!!!   “She said I owned the clothes of a radiologist and the shoes of an OBGYN; which is like the medical doctor equivalent of saying that I dressed like a librarian with a propensity of fuckmeboots.”   This is my second Penny Reid book and it was a lot of fun! I had originally only read The Hooker and the Hermit, and now it's very clear to me who wrote what in that book now that I've read books by both authors. Neanderthal Seeks Human  is about Janie who just broke up wit
Janie is a bit socially awkward, she has a tendency to spew out random facts at the drop of a hat.
A series of chance meetings with McHotPants aka Quinn, lands Janie a new job.
It also took him forever to show Janie he liked her, but to be fair, she was oblivious to many things throughout the book.
And I liked that about Janie, because quite honestly, it made her relatable (to me, because I am super oblivious quite a bit of the time as well).
It's a great read for when you don't know what to read next :)
5 Fluffy and Warm Stars! Describe what I felt about this book in one sentence it’s pretty easy: Okay. So, Janie had a pretty bad day. She lost her job, her home and found out her long-time boyfriend is a cheater. So yeah, not a sunny day for her. Enters Quinn. He got her an interview and she has now a new job, a new house… a new friendship with Quinn. But somehow along the way that friendship starts to grow into something more and is time to bring back the secrets, fears and ghosts from the past
So, Janie had a pretty bad day.
He got her an interview and she has now a new job, a new house… a new friendship with Quinn.
This is an amazing reading that will leave with warm feelings in your stomach (in a good way!).
It needed a longer epilogue!Character Development:  I loved Janie.
Quinn is a perfect alpha-male and I love him.
No, seriously, LOVE HIM!
I loved the supportive characters, I can’t wait to read Elizabeth’s story.
And that’s the only bad thing about this book.
It lacked steam, all the steamy parts were shortened.
:(HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Yes.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Penny is an amazing author and while NSH isn't her best work, it's still fun and easy to read. Deducted a star bc I really dislike fade-to-black sex scenes and this book had FOUR!
When I saw Amy Harmon sharing her love for this book I knew I had to read it.
Janie's closest friend and her knitting group are there to console her through this terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day.Our heroine is nerdy and awkward at best.
Here's what that combo looks like->Janie has decided for any future guys she wants them to be  'smart, funny sweet, nice to his family, good looking in an adorkable kind of way.' Meet Sir Handsome McHotpants aka Quinn.
Our quirky heroine and our handsome hero add for a fun enjoyable summer read!
➦Super late to the party here but, ever since reading the 6th book in this series and loving it, I've decided to finally get through all of the installments.
This heroine here is like a walking talking encyclopedia and doesn't fail to recite interesting, albeit totally useless to the subject at hand facts whenever she is put in a socially uncomfortable situations.➦I loved the beginning of the book but the further I kept reading the more I realized that this book is too chick lit for me.
I just wanted to read about Sir McHotpants' big dick.
For those who don't know what the heckerino I'm talking about, Radish is an app available for mobile users to read serialized stories.I'm going to be putting my entire back list up on there and eventually have some exclusive content :-OThey currently have a summer reading challenge going on that includes Neanderthal Seeks Human!
Read a total of 150 episodes of any of the stories in the Summer Reading List collection and win 50 coins!
You can use these coins to unlock other stories on the app.
Click here to learn more about the Summer Reading List Challenge!
5 "You've made me fearless." "And you've make me a good guy." STARSYes, I do declare that I love Penny Reid.
Even the sad, dangerous or angry moments!Janie Morris is quirky, dorky, awkward and simply adorable!"Everything about her was unexpected and unique.
Quinn Sullivan is sexy, controlled, careful and hot!"My problem is that I miss the obvious; your problem is that you pay too much attention to it."
I found myself riddled with uncontrollable chuckling as I read the ramblings of Janie!
For instance, her thoughts on how she feels about Mr. Quinn McHotPants Sullivan:
Loved the Epilogue in Quinn's POV.
I honestly don't think I've read a book before where a Hero was as silent as Quinn, but it worked for his character.
Without a lot of words and fanfare Quinn let Janie know how much he wanted her ans how much he cared for her.
She also had the tendency to never stop talking but I loved seeing her with Quinn and how he wasn't turned off by her word-vomit.
Janie and Quinn were overall a very cute couple and I have a feeling they may remain my favorite couple from this series even after I read the other books.
She doesnt listen, goes to the room and gets drugged, wakes up in Quinn's house and believes in whatever the hell he says and she never even asks herself why.WTF?SEE THE PATERN?THIS GIRL IS FUCKING RETARDED.She is completely blind to the obvious.
Not until her friends tells her and even then she still doesnt get it.5)This Quinn guy;-Uses his position to get her a job-Uses his position to buy her a cellphone-Uses his position to spend time with her-Uses uses uses..I know Janie is so fucking clueless but it takes like 5 seconds to say ‘NO’ or ask ‘WHY?’.
Neanderthal Seeks Human is a witty romance story about Janie Morris and Quinn McHotpants Sullivan.We first meet Janie on the worst day of her life, it began with her finding out her fiancé cheated on her, breaking her heel on the way to work, getting fired from her job and worst of all: running out of toilet paper in her former companies restroom.
See Janie isn’t like most people you meet, she is crazy smart and is full of facts.
I loved how despite Janie being different then most girls, Quinn was completely enthralled with her.
But, this time I will attempt to talk about the intense feelings and realizations I had while reading this book.I will set the stage by mentioning this was not my first experience with Penny Reid and The Knitting in the City series.
If you are curious, this was my review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Penny Reid takes people we know we have met, observed and wondered about...
Neanderthal Seeks Human (Knitting in the City, #1) https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Happily Ever Ninja (Knitting in the City, #5) https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Dating-ish (Knitting in the City, #6) https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Marriage of Inconvenience (Knitting in the City #7) https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...For more Reviews, Free E-books and Giveaways
4.5 LOVE Quinn Sir Handsome McHotpants STARS!!!! I love my ROMCOM stories and "Neanderthal Seeks Human" had me laughing and swooning in equal measure.Janie Morris is having a day from hell.She just broke up with her boyfriend, after having found out he cheated on her.The heel of her show broke off on a sewer grate.Spilled coffee on her favorite blouse and she's just lost her job due to downsizing.To top the day she is having, she's being escorted out of the office by the HOT security guard she h
4.5 LOVE Quinn Sir Handsome McHotpants STARS!!!!
I love my ROMCOM stories and "Neanderthal Seeks Human" had me laughing and swooning in equal measure.Janie Morris is having a day from hell.She just broke up with her boyfriend, after having found out he cheated on her.The heel of her show broke off on a sewer grate.Spilled coffee on her favorite blouse and she's just lost her job due to downsizing.To top the day she is having, she's being escorted out of the office by the HOT security guard she had been ogling for the past month, Sir Handsome McHotpants!!Seems like a bad day right?Actually, her luck really starts to change from here in the BEST of ways.
3.5 "What Did I Just Read?!" StarsThis book was hilarious... and odd... and funny... and weird... and nutty... and, well I am still wrapping my brain around it. Let's start with the players Janine...a.k.a. Neanderthal,...a.k.a. Cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs:Janine is a socially inept, oblivious, gullible, overly analytic moron-slash-genius. Her IQ is off the charts, but her sexual experience level is minimal and she is often clueless to what is really happening around her. She secretly is burning for t
He is clueless about the dating ritual, but finds himself very intrigued with the idea once he sets eyes on the hot quirky red-head accountant Janine.
Quinn comes to her rescue (as he is prone to do over and over!) and helps her find a new job working for his company.
(Yes, her naivety was so cute, but it was also a bit annoying!) Quinn soon believes Janine is in danger of bad guys, and proceeds to try and rescue her a few more times while never letting Janine be the wiser.
Written April 10, 20153.8 Stars - Hilarious funny and sweet "romcom" with a wacky heroine I never will forgetThis was a Kindle freebie some time ago and it was possible to add a low-priced "whispersynk for voice" audiobook (just $2.30). After reading a lot of happy reviews was the 14:20 hrs audiobook narrated by Jennifer Grace mine too.  ‘I decided, as I succumbed to sleep, that men should come with manuals, subtitles, and reset buttons.’A quick satisfied tap-dance...Besides the large number of
Written April 10, 20153.8 Stars - Hilarious funny and sweet "romcom" with a wacky heroine I never will forgetThis was a Kindle freebie some time ago and it was possible to add a low-priced "whispersynk for voice" audiobook (just $2.30).
***********************************************Neanderthal Seeks Human is a hilarious funny romantic novel (more Chick-Lit than steamy Romance tough) about the super "geeky nerd" girl Janie Morris and Quinn Sullivan (aka Sir McHotpants).
This heroine Janie is among the funniest, most clever, brightest and craziest I've met in a long time.
(hide spoiler)]***********************************************The audiobook edition?This new narrator for me, Jennifer Grace was very pleasant to listening to.
I know I'm super late to the party on this one but it's great and I'm glad I finally made the time!
Reread and it was so much fun as I know how the relationship of Quinn and Janie evolves in next six books. They are weird and misfit but they gel perfectly together.
Overall I'm rating this book 3.75 stars.
This was my first book by the author and I ended up enjoying this.
Janie was hard for me, as the book went on I liked her less and less.
I liked his character and he made this read 100s of times better.
It would have been better to see the characters connect and not Janies problems.
I'll definitely continue this book series.
Side note: The title of this book has nothing to do with the storyline.
I award this book with Bad Title Syndrome.
3.5 Stars... This was definitely a little more on the "chick-lit" side of the romance spectrum than I typically prefer; but I knew that going in, so I really can't complain.Full review later...Already stalking the next book in the series, because I'm on a Reid roll...
She is unique, fascinating, hilarious, endearing, and sometimes awkward and embarrassing.)A hero who likes her "just as she is"charmwit (probably the wittiest I've read all year)laugh out loud humor“You’re very big,” he said.I gave him a cursory smile, “Yes. I ate all my vegetables as a child.” This was my standard response when someone remarked on my size.
It seems like more and more books pack an emotional wallop that make you cry, ache, tense up, sweat, swear, and finally breathe a sigh of relief when you get your happily ever after.
“And you make me a good guy.”What I loved about this book was that it didn't just center around Janie and Quinn's relationship drama.
