https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107318.The_Far_Country
Sweeping vistas of eucalyptus forests (called gum tress in the novel), clear rivers filled with trout, uninhabited miles after miles of pastureland, brilliant birds and novel beasts like koala bears and wallabies, stress free and hospitable locals - these are the ingredients that greet Jennifer on her arrival to the continent.Although we start the journey learning about sheep farming , soon enough the focus moves to the lumbering camps in the neighboring mountains, where New Australians, as the displaced persons who lost their homes and even countries in the war are called, work their two year indenture as payment for being allowed into the country from the crowded camps in Europe.
He is an excellent story teller that manages to tell a wonderfully engaging tale without any vile language and sex.
This story revolves around a young British girl in the early days after World War II when times are hard and changing in Britain.
This is full of excellent discussions, from a completely British perspective, on the social and political changes after the country was left devastated by 2 world wars.
The protagonist's father was a doctor and the perspective of this generation watching what happened to both doctors and patients as the country moved to socialized medicine is very enlightening.
And when I finally picked it up from the library, I foolishly almost judged it by its cover - well, that and its font style and size, which looked a little old-fashioned, boring and uninspiring.
It started slowly, but it picked up through the second chapter and after that it was very easy to read.The author’s descriptions of the Australian countryside are beautiful and paint a picture.
The plot was interesting and plausible, the characters likeable.This is my second Nevil Shute and I look forward to reading more of his work.
The price of wool is up for graziers, the wealth far beyond that of its bleak parent England.The two nations are placed into contrast with one another, and the themes of loyalty to one's nation and family versus seeking new opportunity elsewhere is played with expertly.My only complaint of the novel, however, is the avoidance of (or perhaps a too subtle treatment of) Carl Zlinter's back story, specifically, his involvement in the German Army, his reason for coming to Australia, and whether or not (at age 36) he had interactions with the Nazi party.
A bit frustrating, at times.Overall, though, a wonderful, charming read (charming, being the key word here) that I'd recommend to anyone who adores love stories, who is interested in Korean-War England and Australia, and who longs to know more about the Australian countryside.
In its way, it's a relatively simple story, but I love Shute's style.
At its core it's a love story, but it represents its time as well.
Helen visits with an Aunt and her family, meets Carl, a Czech doctor, who works in the forest as a lumberman (as a Displaced Person from the war) he must work where the Australians let him for 2 years as a sort of payment for being allowed to live in Australia.
Shute doesn't get involved in the politics of the time, other than in the background as it affects peoples' lives, but he does present an excellent picture of the time, contrasting life in England and Australia very nicely and very simply.
One of Nevil Shute's better books.
If you've read any of his better books before, you'll want to read this one.
I've read most of his books, and so far every one has been a good read.
Several have been made into movies, some of which were good, and some weren't.
Shute himself left England for Australia around this time, so he must have known what he was talking about, although surely his observations were colored by his politics.
Anyway, the book is an interesting look back at the England and Australia of sixty years ago.
It's very practical, and without my realizing it, he has given me a beautiful and (I imagine) accurate picture of the people and places of that little corner of Australia.
I'd like to visit there one day, for sure.
I'm sure it's very different now than what it was (just like the USA is different now than in 1950), but all the same, I'd like to visit there.His characters are very plain and that makes them very endearing.
Shute is very biased towards Australia :).A nice story and an enjoyable read, for sure.
It makes me want to curl up, relax, and enjoy another.
But even there the government is sticking its nose in, making foreign people do 3 years of college in order have their medical qualifications recognised when anyone can see that they’re good hard working people!But Australia is there to contrast with the grey, wet, cold, crowded, miserable England that Jennifer leaves.
I suppose I shouldn’t be too hard on Shute, it was the times he lived and wrote in, but for a modern reader I think there are a lot of issues with the book.
I know I read all of Nevil Shute's books, but I don't remember this one at all.
I was very glad to read it again and remembered one part when I came upon it this time: the part where Jennifer starts managing her father's doctor practice within the National Health Service.
I think I was confusing this book with In the Wet. The ending seemed like Shute may have been planning a sequel, but I am not sure and don't remember ever seeing one.This is a book about normal people going about their normal lives and I like those kind of books.
This one isn't as compelling at A Town like Alice but this is still worth a read.
It is such a sweet love story !
I loved the descriptions of Australia so much it made want to go there!
It was romantic love story with a little mystery thrown in.
Also, some history of post war England thrown n.
Australia was painted as place very beautiful rife with beautiful country sides, colorful birds with no natural preys.
Briefly, it is story of an English girl who goes to Australia and meets a Czech doctor who is lumberman.
Australia for 3 years but does not have enough money for his training.
He was a doctor in Czechklosovakia during the war.
An alternate title could be, "England is a miserable place; Move to Australia," co-sponsored by the Australia Immigration Bureau and Winston Churchill/Tory reelection campaign.The story of the characters was really nice, and the book is interesting when read as a reflection of how the British middle class viewed post-war socialism, but I found the politics extremely biased and quite distracting.
As an aside, and I realize it is a reflection of the times, but I did chuckle that the author included discussion on the political situation--by only by the men Jenny worked with in their only appearance--which she decided to listen in on, not participate in.
An interesting story contrasting the promise of post-WWII Australia and the poverty of Great Britain during the same period. It's by no means a page turner but it's well-written and the people are worth caring about.
Superbly written, gentle story of Australia in the '50s, contrasting with the ravages that Europe was still suffering after the end of WWII. Shute paints a landscape with words, but does not become overly sentimental.
Even better the second time! My second favorite after “A Town Like Alice”.
A medical doctor qualified to practise in Czechoslovakia, he is not qualified to practise in Australia and only looks after First Aid at the lumber camp.
Zlinter is initially in potentially serious trouble over the unlicensed operations and death, but he is cleared of responsibility.Jennifer helps Zlinter to trace the history of a man of the same name who lived and died in the district many years before, during a gold rush, and they find the site of his house.Back in England, Jennifer's mother dies and she is forced to return, but she is now restless and unsatisfied.
England about 1951, suffering from fog, pollution, rationing and other after-effects following World War 2.
In total contrast Australia, where with wool exports hitting record highs making sheep farmers very wealthy, plus there is sunshine, individualism, freedom and a positive outlook.
In this story Nevil Shute weaves together the two contrasting scenarios through family connections on both sides of the world.
I found it interesting to reflect upon what the life in England was at that time as he describes it and certainly it came a far second compared with that in Australia.The story is okay, but it was rather predictable and seemed to be one that could have been serialised in a magazine rather than a novel of greatness.
I was willing to move along slowly with this story and its disparate characters, all well-realized and believable, but I had the impression that the author himself was not focused on pulling his plot together. It is interesting to realize that ranking this, I had a hard time giving it a low score because of the friendly understandable world he let me share, yet so many elements were dropped, events critical to the characters happened off-stage, and the ending did not feel like one.
Although this is only the third Nevil Shute book I've read he is quickly rising to the top of my favorite author list. The is a certain brevity and purity in his writing that I have seldom seen elsewhere. He will quickly have you vested in his characters and unable to put down the book. Even though the time period he is writing about is sixty years ago the themes and problems transend both time and setting.
Es un libro bien escrito, muy entretenido, cada personaje es memorable.
The Far Country is the third Nevil Shute's book I've read and from the very beginnning of it I clearly understood why I love them so much and why from time to time I have this feeling of wanting to read some of his works.
Actually this book shows us how much Nevil Shute himself loved Australia, and also it tells what he felt when he moved there, tells the reasons why he did it, because it's definitely based on his own experience.
This is a love story of 2 people moving to Australia from very different backgrounds, told in a very unemotional way.
As always, it is beautifully told and contains believable characters.Shute consciously wrote 2 types of book -- those that he hoped would have mass appeal, for income, and those that he thought were more serious and might not make him much money.
"The Far Country" is in the first category, like "A Town like "Alice".This was Shute's first book after moving to Australia.
He was an Englishman and his books all reflect an idyllic Englishness.
This was an enjoyable book.
Very different ...as it was published in 1952.
I love almost any book about Australia!
This was fun to read about the romance between the characters.
They were so "proper" in their relationship.
It was really rather refreshing and you know, the romance didn't lose anything in their chaste behavior!
I also found it very interesting to read about the very difficult and Socialistic times in England during this time.
I did not realize England had taken such a Socialistic role after the two World Wars.
There are some interesting conversations among the English in the book.
I read this for the first time in 2017.
I had read A Town Like Alice back in the 1980s when the miniseries showed on Masterpiece Theatre (argh, I wish they'd release it on DVD or BluRay).
I read a few others by Shute in later years but nothing recently although I collected copies as I found them.
Jenny, a doctor's daughter in England, comes into a legacy from a relative, and uses it to travel to Australia for six months.
Barely a month in, she's found a love interest and unfortunately has to return to England.
First published in 1952; a young English woman unexpectedly travels to Australia and begins her visit at a station in the outback. The lack of medical personnel brings her in contact with a gentleman who was a doctor in Europe during the war, but Australia does not allow him to practice unless he goes back to school for 3 years. Consequently, he is working as an indentured lumberman for 2 years, and thinks he will no longer be a doctor. Lumber accidents require SOMEbody to help medically, so ....
Two and a half starsThis book is primarily interesting because of its snapshots of postwar England and an Australian sheep station in 1950. It's not an historical novel because the author is portraying the times he lived in. The story is rather humdrum. We get glimpses of what could be intriguing situations that are never spoken of again. It's just people's routines. And it's A love story that cannot be because the lovers are tugged in different directions, and then they suddenly work it out.
Enjoyed the British/Australian setting in the 1950 and learned more about both countries during that period. I did bot know the contrast in lifestyle between the two countries, Great Britain still reccovering after two world wars and Australian having an abundance of food and other goods and plenty if opportunity.The characters were interesting but the the author’s love of his adopted country and nature shone through.
Really a 3.5 as the second half of the novel had minimal plot. Overall impressions: This is a loveletter from Nevil Shute to the country of Australia. Many pages are dedicated to comparing and contrasting dreary, rationed, bombed out England to the Land of Opportunity (Australia), a land of plentiful food, surrounded by stunningly beautiful landscapes.
A hidden gem This is a lovely story, full of life and characters you will be drawn to almost immediately. The plot is drawn finely, but it is the setting that makes it all wonderful. Frontier Australia, and the men and women who settled it...
A good storyNevil Shuts is a forgotten author today, and that's sad. This is a well-written, well-plotted story with good characters. It's message of hope and love is not usual in this day and it's wonderfully refreshing.
Never disappoints Nevil Shute never disappoints me. This one kept me awake at night and made me long to visit Australia. What a marvelous storyteller. Plus his books are a fascinating and unselfconscious glimpse into 1950s morality, politics, racism, sexism.
