https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11938807-american-gun-mystery
Four:Ellery’s relationship with the police force not only gives him unrealistic access to information and scenes that should have remained confidential it also opens the door for behaviour on the part of the police that must, even in the legal regime of the time, put into jeopardy their ability to actually convict the individuals that Ellery fingers as the perpetrators of the crimes.
His superiors, the editors of the New York newspapers, his subordinates and the population at large seem not to find this open nepotism worth discussing.Ellery has in earlier books removed pieces of evidence from the crime scene.
BOOK 120 - Mid-20th Century American Crime Readathon - Round 4Hook - 3 stars: "To me, " said Ellery Queen, " a wheel is not a wheel unless it turns." And off to the rodeo we go, an original setting for the crime genre.Pace - 2: I lost count of how many times Inspector Queen said something like "I know who did it but I'm going out for a drink."Plot - 1: A rider just entering the stadium leading 39 (or 40) other riders on horses is shot dead.
I just didn't believe the plot.CHARACTERS= 5: GREAT cast!
Unforgivable. What an utter waste of time. My time. The authors - they must be doing reverse spinning in their graves - should be ashamed for having laid such a work. They comically painted themselves into a corner. They forgot the most important thing in writing a mystery. The humblest of books takes care of that thing first of all. The plot here was a convoluted mess. Like I said, the authors painted themselves into a corner, Macguyvered their brush into a gun, and shot themselves in the foot. No motive. No m-o-t-i-v-e.
Ellery Queen and his father take Djuna to see the first show starting Buck Horne.
Like with The Greek Coffin Mystery, the authors purposely interrupt the narrative to give the reader time to think before they reveal the truth.
I really feel for his father, for having to put up with a know-it-all son who doesn’t reveal anything until the end (Although it is explained that this is because of the events in The Greek Coffin Mystery)And since Ellery is the protagonist of the series, I’m left undecided if I want to continue reading.
We last meet them in the scene where someone is arrested, and then the story skips to a later time when Ellery Queen wraps up the case for a friend and none of the other characters are mentioned again.Nor was it really the case in this volume that the reader had "all the pertinent clues to solve the case himself", which is always a fun challenge in the Ellery Queen books.It certainly wasn't boring nor did I hate reading it, but it's not the strongest in the series.
The earlier books are convoluted mysteries but from the late 1930s the characters in the books became more and more bizarre.
I enjoyed reading the series which feature the amateur detective Ellery Queen but it must be over twenty years since I have read any.
This copy was published in 1956 but the book was originally published in 1933 so it's one of the earlier ones.Ellery Queen is an implausible character and the plot is implausible too.
The authors' writing style is a bit ornate but despite all this I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Definitely not one of the best of the series .... Story about a cowboy film star that tries to make a comeback in a rodeo but is shot in front of 20,000 people on opening night in New York. Despite the police sealing the building before anyone can leave, the gun is mysteriously unable to be found. One month later at the re-opening of the show another performer is killed again ... by the same missing gun. Interesting premise but the story just really did not hold my attention well. Have liked the first three in the series much better.
I started reading "The American Gun Mystery" due to my heart aching desire to justify ripping out its pages to create origami flowers for my best friend's wedding.
So far (I'm on page 17), I actually enjoy how embelished it is and Queen pushes a literary feel in a Western mystery.
It's pure fun.However, after finishing the novel..
It was just confusing.
There wasn't a chance for us to get to know any of the suspects without having to decipher what felt like forced banter from the author.
I felt like the motive is weak and was left wanting.
Certainly not as good as the others in this series, but did have the usual Ellery touches. Really now, you've gotta have a motive -- and reveal what the motive is.
The American Gun Mystery is the sixth book in the Ellery Queen Detective series by various authors.
Also, at the end, after Ellery reveals who the murderer is (the mystery was good, by the way.
I was completely surprised when he told who had done it), there is a LONG epilogue sort of thing about how Ellery solved the mystery -- but the thing is, I really.
I would probably read another book in the series if I could get ahold of it, because I still enjoyed it moderately.
Krimka nagu krimka ikka, aga ei suutnud mind absoluutselt paeluda.
Tegelased ei olnud usutavad; kedagi, kellele kaasa elada, polnud.
Ja eks kohati oli ebaloogilisusigi - mis kriminaalromaanide juures on suureks patuks.
"Peaks kuskil olema jah," kobab ta seepeale oma taskuid - ja leiabki kirja.
Mis siis, et kirja saamisest oli möödas kuu aega.
Mis siis, et tegu oli inimesega, kes saab elus rohkem kui ühe kirja.
Ja olgugi, et tegu oli kauboiga - riideid võiks ikka pesta/vahetada tihemini, kui kord kuus.
Lahendus just etteaimatav ei olnud, aga ka üllatav ka mitte.
Kohati jättis isegi otsitud ja pooliku mulje.
An older novel, an interesting twist in the end where the author asks if you the reader has figured it out or not ... then tells you the answers. Pretty good, I got some of it and missed other clues. It all takes place in a Wild West Show like Wild Bill's. Characters are awesome and you can feel the friction. Quick and good mystery read.
Enjoyed the slow unpeeling of the mystery- which on the surface seemed so tight, but turned out to be quite simple when explained. As a good mystery should be.
The story revolves around a faded matinee idol from old cowboy movies, Buck Horne, who is taking a turn at Wild Bill Grant's wild west show in a huge arena in New York City.
Buck appears to have been shot dead during one rip-roaring run around the arena.
After a few weeks of investigation, the show starts up again, this time featuring another idol of the old oaters, one-armed Woody.
So we have lots of red herrings and overdoses of smug pomposity by Ellery Queen, the main character.
I won't likely revisit Ellery Queen any time soon.
Enjoyable mystery. I certainly didn't see the solution coming though I did manage to eliminate some of the suspects. Why 3 stars? I liked it. Also, I'd recommend it for anyone looking for an early 20th century mystery, though I don't think I'll read it again and I'm not sure I want to read another Ellery Queen story. If I stumbled upon another EQ book (say at a garage/yard sale for instance) I might pick it up to read but I'm definitely not searching the books out.
Good things: Ellery and his father seem more human, more real than in the first several books. The writing style is progressing, getting further away from mimicing S. S. Van Dine (who over-wrote horribly). Bad things: Loads of plot holes, and a logical, but slightly unbelievable, solution to the crime.
This is the classic American Mystery story made in the first half of the 20th century. It is written pretty dry. I wish there were more character development in the story, but otherwise, I was not able to guess the solution to the mystery.
An early Queen mystery
Well loved it, as ever with Ellery Queen.... But have to say I never worked out WHY the murder took place! Wish someone could explain to me!
an intriquitly plotted mystery
read some time in 1989
Not exactly fair play, but a good story with lots of Queen's touches.
