https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371062.Rats_Lice_and_History
Rats, Lice and History is written in an entertaining conversational style with with enough scholarly flourishes that you'll want your computer by your side to look up words and translate all the French, German and Spanish quotes.
(Generally the Greek and Latin are translated or explained.)The author manages to weave in a wide range of historical musings along with up to date science (for the publication date of 1934).
I found my copy of the book at the University of Oregon Science library.
I really enjoyed the physical book.
I love medical histories, so when I saw this at a used bookstore I picked it up.This book is about everything BUT typhus.
The topic of typhus isn't truly brought up until page 212, and doesn't really start being addressed until page 229.This, to me, is hilarious.
I started this book in a serious mood, expecting to be informed about the progression and history of a serious disease.
It's a star number I picked randomly, and that should fit considering the random nature of this book.
Even though this book was written at the turn of the previous century, it hasn't become any less interesting or funny.
Hans Zinsser has created an eccentric view of history, rambling about rats, typhus, the Roman Empire, lice, and everything.
You can't read it in one sitting, because you'll have to keep taking breaks to calm down from the experience.
My favorite foonote was associated with a word I'd never heard -- it said, "If the reader does not know the meaning of this word, that is unfortunate." That gives you an inkling of what is in store for you if you choose to read this book.
Very interesting content, but because of the writing style it was somewhat tough going. Nevertheless, this book represents a curious look at the history of infectious disease and public health. Some parts were unintentionally funny - the Philistines beating the Jewish in an ancient war by getting their Gods to strike the Jews down with a plague. But not a plague of pestilance or dysentry, oh no. Historians believe it was a epidemic of haemorrhoids.
Contains the best footnote ever: "If the reader does not understand the meaning of this word, that is too bad"
Concerning the sex-life of the louse, Dr. Zinsser writes,"Nature has provided that the nymph- that is, what may be called the high-school or flapper age of the louse- is not yet possessed of sexual organs.
The loss of copy this would entail for Theodore Dreiser, William Faulkner, Ernest Hemingway, and others would be amply compensated for by gains in other directions." (134)Again, writing about rats:"Neither rat nor man has achieved social, commercial, or economic stability.
They are utterly destructive of other forms of life.
Insects, in their well-organized societies, are destructive of one form of living creature, but helpful to another.
Man and the rat are utterly destructive.
If you are interested in these topics (as I am) this is interesting and amusing (in part because of Zinsser's very obvious attempt to demonstrate his own breadth of interest and knowledge), if not what you'd expect in a book like this.More surprisingly still, perhaps, it's not until chapter 13 that we really meet the disease typhus.
Thanks to Happyreader, I realized my review of this book is associated with a totally obscure and out-of-print edition.
So that no one will ever actually see my review, and I can't easily compare mine with others'.
Since I really, really love this book, I'm moving my review._____________________________A must read for anyone interested in biology, or science, or language, or good writing, or life in general, this is one of my all-time favorites.
Don't give up!This book made me want to become an epidemiologist.
Best biology book I ever read. Beautiful, ornate style that reminds me of Swift and Defoe. Fascinating details. Nero Wolf was caught reading it once when he was away from the Orchid rooms, which is a recommendation in itself. The idea of a disease as being like a single organism that spans space and time in a single body and has always been with us is irresistible. I keep up with developments in microbiology as a hobby, although I don't normally do hobbies which are usually associated with pastimes such as chess, knitting and cookery...
What an excellent book. Didn't expect to enjoy it so much. It's fascinating how human history including the destruction and creation of great civilizations was influenced by epidemics of infectious diseases. Its also fascinating how far back in history those diseases persisted in influencing the events in human history. Entertaining and fascinating read.
got this on my table at the studio for when i need a break; picked it up at the hart library for a buck!
I read this when I was in high school, and it influenced my thinking and choices later.
An excellent Essay. The author's style of writing and comments on current events are intriguing. (circa 1930)
Rats, Lice, and History, by Hans Zinsser, is a hoot!Hans Zinsser - physician, scientist, war hero, and author - wrote a book in 1934, which he titled, with mock yet informative pretension:Rats, Lice, and History: Being a Study in Biography, which, after Twelve Preliminary Chapters Indispensable for the Preparation of the Lay Reader, Deals with the Life History of Typhus Fever, Also known, at various stages of its Adventurous Career, as Morbus pulicaris (Cardanus, 1545); Tabardiglio y puntos (De Toro, 1574); Pintas; Febris purpurea epidemica (Coyttarus, 1578); Febris quam lenticulas vel punticulas vocant (Fracastorious, 1546); Morbus hungaricus; La Poupre: Piperconr: Febris petechialis vera; Febris maligna pestilens; Febris putrida et maligna; Typhus carcerorum; Jayl Fever; Fievre des hospitaux; Pestis bellica; Morbus castrensis; Famine Fever; Irish Ague; Typhus exanthematicus; Faulfieber; Hauptkrankheit; Pestartige Braune; Exanthematishces Nervenfieber, and so forth, and so forth.Any popular book on natural history that starts by skewering the news media, the literary establish, and social convention is going to be great fun to read.
More entertainingly, the book starts with a discussion of biographies themselves in a whimsical yet incisive overview worth reading by literary critics considering modern biographies.
The Crusades, affected by pestilence in general if not typhus, get an overview along with plagues of the Old Testament era.
I especially liked the considering of Justinian's plague and the arrival of syphilis from the New World in the Columbian Exchange.I think Zinsser was ahead of his time and if published anew now this would play well in the microhistory realm Mark Kurlansky, etc.
Hans Zinsser's use of prose and snark throughout this book makes this biographical history of typhus a page turner.
Zinsser weaves history, social commentary, and epidemiology in an intriguing tale that makes the subject of typhus understandable to almost any reading ability.
One of my favorite footnotes tells the reader he isn't going to define it.
He approaches this book, I think, with the idea that gaps and knowledge can be further researched on the reader's own time.
I found it fascinating when he hypothesized that lice have only rather recently become infected with the rickettsia that is the parasite that makes them so virulent.
Truly a fascinating book.
I'm told that the science in this book is outdated, but that hardly matters. While this is purportedly a "biography" of the deadly typhus fever, Zinsser doesn't get around to discussing the fever itself until the book is nearly over. In the meantime we are treated to a series of very funny essays on topics ranging from literary theory, the argument for science as an art form, the insipidity of the first world war, and the important role of disease in the development of empires. Highly recommended.

As much as I dislike to give this book such a low rating, I feel that I must. While the book is actually very well written it meanders through multiple other topics before arriving at the self professed subject shortly after the 200th page. For a book the author calls a biography of Typhus it discusses everything from the difference between science and art to multiple other plagues and their effects on history before briefly introducing the reader to the subject for a short period that still wildly tangents. Thus the low rating.
This book started my nonfiction craze. I first read it 28 years ago, and re-read often. Informative, funny--Zinnser is very familiar and chatty; laughs at himself while you learn about a whole lot of stuff, including nasty typhus. This was written early 1930's, but its sooo good. There's new stuff out on disease/history, yeah, and I've read most, but this is the FUNNEST.
Though this may have been relatively groundbreaking when it was written, the subject matter is now well covered. However, it's not as a historian that Zinnser endures for me so much as as a writer; wry, pithy, and occasionally cantankerous. He's an entertaining character, quite amusing, and always fun to rread.
This book has the greatest footnote I've ever come across - "If the reader does not understand this word, that is just too bad." This book is both historically interesting, engaging and just a tad sarcastic which keeps it fresh. You feel the author's wit and enthusiasm. I thoroughly enjoyed learning about history from this book!
Probably more interesting as a historical document about how scholars looked at disease and the world in the 1930s than as actual history, but the book remains influential in the field, as far as I can tell.
Taking disease as his spectacles for an analysis of the history of civilization, Zinsser's lively odyssey throws light on events and cultural tropes in a highly entertaining way. Deservedly a classic
"Rats, Lice, and History: Being a Study in Biography, Which, After Twelve Preliminary Chapters Indispensable for the Preparation of the Lay Reader, Deals With the Life History of Typhus Fever"http://resolutereader.blogspot.com/20...
Source: Coles
This biography of typhus is fascinating. It has had a huge impact on the development of our society.
Absolutely fascinating history of typhus and plague.
I read this in high school because it was on the Indiana University list of 100 books students should read and loved it. It is the beginning of my love affair with nonfiction.
Fascinating book that opened the eyes of a young architecture student to the forces that really affect history.
