https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/423303.Topper
Topper and his ghost companions enjoy several good meals, but otherwise they spend the summer mostly sleeping rough, swimming in rivers and the Atlantic, canoeing, reading Ulysses aloud, and just digging the beauty of nature.
After all, if Topper gets up to 25 MPH in his car it feels fast and dangerous, and it no doubt was since roads were iffy and there were still a lot of farmers with horses about.I was worried about Topper's wife.
Smith is a writer who can produce the banter of Coward, and also spend a lot of time telling us how Topper feels about his cat.
Cosmo Topper a staid and dull banker with an nagging wife ,who has perpetual indigestion.
(She needs Pepto - Bismol)A drastic change happens in his boring life, after buying an old sports car.The auto was previously owned by an irresponsible rich young couple ,who died in it .
While driving in the country , he starts seeing things and maybe going a little insane!Yes George and Marion Kerby the young dead pair, have come back as ghosts to haunt Topper and the fun begins.Marion wants to drive and bystanders give a strange look at the apparently driverless vehicle traveling down the road.
Hmm. Better than "Night Life of the Gods" but it leaves me feeling a bit uncomfortable.
I think it's because I feel a slight edge of desperation in all the consumption of alcohol (the book is set during Prohibition).
But the sort of drinking that happens in Thorne Smith's books would probably kill me, and I suspect it killed him.Having said that, the premise is funny and there are some amusing passages in the book.
But I doubt I shall read any more Thorne Smith for entertainment from that era.
I have long loved the Cary Grant film version of this book but this is my first time reading it. While the characters and basic premise is the same, the novel is much more about the title character of Topper. Topper, a stodgy New York banker, is suffering through a mid-life crisis aggravated by the intrusion of some ghosts (including one of a dog who only partially materializes). While less farcical than the film, it is a better story.
Clearly he's interested in life on the other side - as long as it brings a chuckle or more frequently a loud guffaw as I found myself doing while reading this.I'm guessing this book was on the risqué side when it first came out in the 20's but it's pretty tame by today's standards - mostly innuendo.
I'm guessing by context that they are women's underwear as they are made of silk and cause poor old Topper much grief with his wife when she discovers a pair in his pocket!
Thorne Smith's pixilated novels go down like a glass of bubbly champagne.
Take that sort of witty, cocktail-fueled repartee, add even more improbable plot elements (usually involving some sort of supernatural happening), and you have a Thorne Smith book.
In this case a car is haunted two irrepressible, high-living (er, dying?) ghosts who met their untimely end by drunkenly crashing it into a tree.
Cosmo Topper, the poor fellow who buys the car secondhand, is a rather dull and conventional soul, but his life is about to change drastically when the two ghosts make it their madcap mission to 'reform' him.
There's a lightness and zaniness to Smith's dialogue that seems both dated and fresh.
Mr. Smith pens a funny story of a middle-aged, mid-level bank manager's encounter with the husband and wife ghosts whose car he bought. Although dead, the two still manage to get howlingly drunk every night and befriend Topper and try to put a little laughter in his life. It was made into a wonderful movie with Cary Grant as the dead husband.
Smith's ghosts are quite untraditional: he used the idea of ghostliness to supply him with a set of cheerfully immoral characters, who, being dead, have the convenient ability to dematerialise at will.
The characters, living as Smith did in the Prohibition era, display an insatiable thirst for alcohol and a distinctly casual attitude towards theft and adultery.I sympathise with Topper; I think there's something of him in many of us.
Scott out in the town during thier worst drinking period - and somewhere in that taxt home is Thorne Smith.As F.
Scott is under a blanket of gloom, Thorne is very much happy with his life.
In fact he's carefree in a world that is totally insane.Most of his stories has to deal with the afterlife (ghosts) witches (Bewitched is based on one of his novels) and it's MADCAP with a revenage.
The fact that he's now out of print really sucks.Topper is about a conservative banker who is haunted by a couple who recently died in a car crash.
The male ghost is jealous because his wife has a thing for Topper.
If I had to pick one 20th century author who has been mostly forgotten and long overdue for a revival, it would be Thorne Smith.
He was a master at the satiric, both criticizing and adoring the staunch American upper class.
I would say he is the closest thing to an American Oscar Wilde.
In fact, when I first read this book years ago, I thought Mr. Smith was British!
Considered racy for its time, in fact Smith's characters do tend to drink and fool around a lot, Smith has a light touch that is a little Victorian is style yet totally American in tone.
What a joy to read. Cosmo Topper what a guy. The book has quite little to do with the movies, though both are enjoyable in their own ways. The American title of the book is "Topper: An Improbable Adventure" I am not sure why they re-titled the book for a UK release. Topper is overweight, approaching forty, with a solid job in banking and a stale, ten-years-old marriage to a selfish woman who cultivates indigestion as a cherished excuse for always having her own way.
My copy of Topper promised a "ribald adventure," but I think the standards of 1926 were a little different.
Essentially Topper is a boring, suburban guy approaching middle age and feeling dissatisfied with life.
The best parts of the book were actually some of the more serious reflections on what makes life worth living.
Here's a passage I particularly liked:He had held a sparrow in his hand once and felt its heart beat.
Somehow it had made him feel like crying.
The little thing had been so excited, so bent on living.
Life to the little sparrow had seemed so necessary and important.
Barrett Whitener did a good job narrating this 1920s satire.For my thoughts on the book itself, see my review of my Kindle edition.
Okay, I suppose the style might tend to come off a bit mealy-mouthed at times. But it was doubtless quite amusingly ribald for its era (with its lawless spirit presaging the 1960s), and the character of Marion Kirby is I think all the stronger now.
I love the movie (especially the first one) and the concept is a good one.
Far more alcohol is consumed in this book than anything in The Hangover or recent bro films.
The concept is a good one--middle-aged man in a crisis, buys an inappropriate car to his wife's dismay, and discovers that the car he bought, restored after a fatal DUI accident, comes with two inebriated, mischievous ghosts.
The ghosts are far more sympathetic in the film version and the wife not so much of a shrew (anyone else notice some weird things going on with race in this book too?).
A bestseller in the late '20s, and very much a book of its time, a time when Prohibition held a quite tenuous sway over the land.George and Marion Kerby, a bon vivant couple who recently died in a car wreck, come back to inject some rabblerousery and dissipation into the life of a stodgy, frustrated banker who rejoices in the name Cosmo Topper.The book is quite different in many ways from the Cary Grant movie.
For two, there is a lot more genteel hell raising than I remember in the movie.Topper is a light, amusing read, if you don't find Marion Kerby's antics too irritating.
I like the premise (man has mid-life crisis, buys an inappropriate car, communes with the ghosts of the couple who died in the car in an accident), which is undoubtedly why I was happy put this on my to-read list some 7 years ago.
I read about it here.
I was thoroughly enjoying several of Dennis Danvers's novels and thought I'd have a look at a book or two he noted as highly influential on American fantasy writers.Unfortunately, on finally getting to it I'm disappointed.
Still, it was interesting to have a look at an early ghost story.
which makes sense (even though it was written in the 20s) because Bewitched was apparently based on one of Smith's books.
I definitely need to see the Cary Grant movie.
I was thrown when I started reading because I knew Grant was in the movie, but I couldn't picture him as the title character.
Further research shows Grant plays George Kerby, which makes so much more sense.Anyway.
Scott Fitzgerald, and the book kind of reads like "Jay Gatsby and Daisy Buchanan die in a car accident and then haunt George Wilson, who has bought Gatsby's car from the estate.
If PG Wodehouse had written Beetlejuice,the result might be something like this novel.A buttoned down henpecked banker finds that his new car is haunted by the free spirited (pun intended) ghosts of it's previous owners. They proceed to have many adventures while overcoming the problems associated with finding alcohol during Prohibition.Witty with endearing characters If you enjoyed this you might enjoy the works of PG Wodehouse,James Thurber,and especially The Lunatic at large by Clouston, J. Storer.
What an odd, drunken tale... I enjoyed much of the language, but found some of the humor a tad old fashioned.
The movies are great. I'd love to read the book.
Wow I love your book
This is billed as a "hilarious, ribald comedy." The writing is polished, but certainly not hilarious.
But I do wonder if humor changes more than other aspects of culture, because "mildly amusing for a few pages" is as far as I'd go.I'm not surprised it was made into a popular movie, as most of the humor involves sight gags, since Smith apparently invented the humorous/mischevious ghost.
He goes home to his wife in the end, after a summer of antics with a married ghost couple, and we are told that "he himself was a different man." His wife seems different, in any case.
Perhaps he is too, but we certainly don't see it.
This novel is almost 100 years old, yet Thorne Smith has a wonderful way with words. It may seem a bit slow by modern standards, given our chase scene movies and thrillers, but it is well worth the read. It was the basis for the Topper movies and TV show.
Amusing, but not as funny as I had expected from the reviews I've read. Still, worth a look.
Amusing, but rather tedious and dated. Scollops the kitty is my favorite part of the book.
Thorne Smith is one of my all-time favourite authors. I enjoyed this ghost story comedy but didn't love it. He definitely got funnier later in his career.
Coming of age or mid life crisis story about a middle aged man "Topper". Through drink his soul was reclaimed. I first came across the story as a kid watching Leo G. Carroll as Cosmo Topper in the TV series, then when I was a little older the movie with Cary Grant quickly became a favorite. An early example of urban fantasy with a humorous twist.
Mostly, this book is merely entitled Topper, but some editions are called the The Jovial Ghosts: The Misadventures of Topper.
Shortly after passing his driving test, Topper goes for a jaunt, crosses the bridge, passes the tree, and next thing you know, he's hearing voices, finding the car difficult to control, and so forth.
It turns out, that George and Marion, living as ghosts on a low plane, have joined him in the car.
It's just the thing to read, if one needs a break from more meaty literature for a bit.
However, it's worth being patient (or doing some skimming) because it's a unique book and a wonderful mirror of American life in the 1920's.Cosmo Topper is what a "New Yorker" editor once called "a Thurber husband" - a mild, ineffectual man who is bullied by his wife and contemptuously overlooked by the rest of the world.
Poor Cosmo is caught in the middle.Thorne Smith seems to have been an unusual guy.
He came from a military family, had a huge hit with TOPPER in 1926, lived in a Utopian community in New Jersey, and died young, leaving no family.
