https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92578.Wittgenstein_s_Nephew
Whom Bernhard has met so far only as a radical exaggeration artist or misanthrope, he shows himself here a little differently :)) Quote from Marcel Reich-Ranicki "Thomas Bernhard has never philanthropic "never written more tenderly", for me personally is Thomas Bernhard's sentence constructions, narrative style and his language unique.
Is it any wonder, therefore that one eventually becomes obsessed with trivial details: “I also realized at the time that no one with intellectual pretensions could possibly exist in a place where the ...Neue Zürcher Zeitung is unobtainable.” Survival consists of maintaining routine after all.At bottom of course is not so much the certainty of impending death but the terrible, uncertain threat of living madness, largely self-induced: “I had behaved toward myself and everything else with the same unnatural ruthlessness that one day destroyed Paul and will one day destroy me.
The import is the same: one’s intellectual capacity simply and inevitably evaporates - a mental sterilisation far worse than the accompanying sexual decline.In Wittgenstein’s Nephew, Bernhard shows himself a master of self-mockery: an entertaining tale of the old at their best and their worst.
The novella is based in part on a true story: author Bernhard's friendship with philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein's grand nephew, Paul.
The narrator, based on Bernhard, and his familiar, Paul Wittgenstein, share a rare friendship.
Paul Wittgenstein's rage, by contrast, turned to madness.
Bernhard is in the lung ward, and Paul is in the mental health ward.
Bernhard describes Paul's treatments as a kind of breaking of his spirit.
Bernhard has written this tribute to his friend in which he excoriates himself for abandoning Paul during his final sad days.
So Wittgenstein's Nephew is Bernhard's apologia.
From Bernhard’s writing slowly unfolds story of their friendship, the first meeting, mutual interests in music and opera, similar sense of humour, the same aversion to the country and love to the city  when I am in the country, bereft of mental stimulus, my thinking atrophies, because my whole mind atrophies , but nothing so calamitous ever happens to me in the city , adhering to peculiar custom sitting in famous Viennese cafes and ridiculing behaviours and flaws of other clients since  most of the minds we associate with are housed in heads that have little more to offer than overgrown potatoes , sharing some restless soul that forced them to live constantly on the move, toing and froing, still escaping from one place to another.Of course Thomas Bernhard would not have been himself if in this slim novella, in own unique style, dripping with black humour, full of meandering and repetitive phrases, obsessive and spiteful comments, had not taken own compatriots ‘ ignorance and stupidity apart.
In a nutshell, the short novel, which is very autobiographical in nature - a writer, not unlike Bernhard himself, and the brilliant but troubled....no, not troubled, more like mad nephew of the philosopher Wittgenstein are confined to beds in the same hospital, the narrator in the pulmonary ward and Paul Wittgenstein in the asylum.
He had lived his life near death for a long time and compares death of the body to death of the spirit or mind.
(Me!)For someone cast off out of combined selfishness and death-fear, Paul Wittgenstein clearly branded Bernhard's hard heart:...before I met my friend there had been a period when I was prey to a morbid melancholy, if not depression, when I really believed I was lost, when for years I did no proper work but spent most of the day in a state of total apathy and often came close to putting an end to my life by my own hand.
Questa sprovvedutezza dei medici e della loro scienza ha dato di questa cosiddetta malattia mentale di Paul le più diverse e allarmanti definizioni, ma mai quella giusta, naturalmente, perché nella sua dissennatezza la scienza medica non è stata in grado di farlo, e tutte le definizioni che di continuo la scienza medica ha dato riguardo a questa malattia mentale del mio amico si sono rivelate sbagliate o addirittura assurde, e di continuo una definizione smentiva l’altra nella maniera più vergognosa e al tempo stesso più deprimente.
Eschewing his emblematic deranged, run-on style, Bernhard serves up Wittgenstein's Nephew as both a eulogy of his friend Paul Wittgenstein, the famed philosopher's mentally unbalanced nephew, and a bleak rumination on death -- or more pointedly, the slow, surreptitious death that constitutes life.
Even simultaneous, proximal deaths are not shared -- just juxtaposed.
Adjacent to the lung disease ward in a spatial relation that is not quite clear to me is the mental ward, where Paul Wittgenstein is temporarily residing.
Bernhard describes the medical complex (quite specifically) as only a mental ward and a lung disease ward.
But then it is so much more, there were discussions about Austrian society.
My favourite is the literary prize episode, I found it hilarious.But at the end, the author was discussing his friend, Paul, at the last stages of his life.
The author combined the absurdity of Austrian Theatre society with Paul's friendship beautifully at the end of book, then followed by the final downfall of Paul.
That end part of book deserves 5 star rating.I have problem with writing style, maybe I am not ready yet with this continuous writing with non-linear timeline.
Pročitam Bernharda jednom godišnje da se slučajno ne zeznem i ne pomislim da je svet lep
Come cerchi cosa cerchi“Noi evitiamo gli uomini segnati dalla morte e anche io ho ceduto a questa infamia”.Il romanzo narra la crescita di una malinconica e passionale amicizia tra due eccentrici e ossessivi personaggi che amano la musica, perseverano in una onestà brutale e sono tormentati da un nauseante disgusto per la borghesia viennese.
Il sano, se è una persona sincera, ammetterà che non vuole avere più niente a che fare con il malato, non vuole che nessuno gli rammenti la malattia e, attraverso la malattia, logicamente e forzatamente la morte”.
Neka ovo bude prvi utisak, bez ocene.Paul Vitgenštajn, kao i epizode iz Bernhardovog života su osnove na kojima stoji ovaj maestralni prikaz sasvim perverznog straha od opšteg bezumlja koje pametnog čoveka mora da razboli: od tuberkuloze ili šizofrenije, svejedno.Ovaj roman je, pre svega, esencija prestravljenosti i gneva koji vode u ludilo, vapaj davljenika koji se okreće u vrtlogu nesavladive zavisti – hroničnog bolesnika – prema svemu što nije bolesno.
Prevodilac Sanja Karanović je dobro uradila posao, ali verujem da je na nemačkom utisak daleko bolji, pa, ko može – neka ne propusti.Za formu, 5 ko vrata i dubok naklon.Ipak, ovo je mučna, grozomorna kavez - knjiga, i ali vrhunska književnost
There are just not that many good examples of Bernhard's vitriolic absurdity in Wittgenstein's Nephew.
Seriously, I was once friends with a boy my own age named Giles Hofacer who was a pretty good stickman himself and he played professionally in a rock band after high school.
Reading this book again made me realize in a more poignant manner that the narrator Thomas Bernhard wasn't a very good friend to others either.
As I watched him, I suppressed my conscience and refrained from approaching him, because I was suddenly afraid.
Perché Bernhard, raccontando la storia della sua amicizia con Paul Wittgenstein, di fatto infama se stesso per aver abbandonato l'amico quando era solo, malato, in pessime condizioni economiche ed in procinto di morire.È come se accusasse se stesso di non aver tenuto presente che pochissime sono le persone che, nel corso di una vita per noi sono importanti, e giusto per questo non possiamo, nel momento in cui si ammalano, disfarcene."oggi penso che le persone che hanno davvero avuto un qualche significato nella nostra vita si possono contare sulle dita di una sola mano e molto spesso è proprio questa mano che si ribella all’idea perversa che una mano intera sia necessaria per enumerare queste persone, quando, a essere sinceri, un solo dito basta e avanza."Ma, par dire Bernhard, l'uomo è un essere indegno, o forse solo un animale.
Bernhard likes very few things, especially people. To paraphrase his narrator, who at a certain instance in the novel ruthlessly points out, one doesn't even have to use all the five fingers of one hand to count the things, ideas or ideals of the society he is in good terms with. A sample of his raw judgement:  For let us not deceive ourselves: most of the minds we associate with are housed in heads that have little more to offer than overgrown potatoes, stuck on top of whining and tastelessly c
To paraphrase his narrator, who at a certain instance in the novel ruthlessly points out, one doesn't even have to use all the five fingers of one hand to count the things, ideas or ideals of the society he is in good terms with.
If you read this book, you will know why.Even though the narrator is full of distaste and scorn, I would like to believe that I am a little like him, who wants to rot in his own solitude even if this society has to offer all its glittery nonsense and false glee.
I cannot help but wonder if this sort of sick society is the reason why people like Ludwig and Bernhard are deemed mad, and why people like Paul turn mad.
Bernhard finds a connection between the way Vienna treats its own "philosophizing" (something of a four letter word) children and the way the Wittgensteins as a family treat their "philosophizing" children (Paul and Ludvig.
My friend Paul suffered from the same disease: for many years he was always traveling, simply in order to get away from one place and go to another, but he never succeeded in finding happiness on arrival..."I think this is one I will be coming back to.
Thomas Bernhard bu eserinde, ünlü filozof Ludwig Wittgenstein'ın yeğeni Paul ile 12 yıla varan ve adıgeçenin ölümüne kadar süren dostluğunu anlatıyor.
Hastanede başlayan dostlukları (Paul ruh hastaları, Bernhard ise veremliler koğuşunda), müzik ve felsefeye ortak ilgileri, dünya görüşleri, genel kabul gören değerlere cesaretle karşı çıkabilmeleriyle pekişiyor.
Bernhard yine Avusturya toplumuna, özellikle de entellektüel çevrelere öfkesini kusuyor.
Bu tabii Bernhard'ın alameti farikası, bir nevi köyün delisi konumunda bu açıdan.
Ama bu kitap Bernhard'ın şimdiye kadar okuduğum kitaplarının en inceliklilerindeniydi.
Anlatılan acı bir hikaye aslında; Paul bir tutunamayan.
Kitabın sonuna eklenen Orhan Pamuk'un Bernhard hakkındaki yazısı da çok iyi.
"The only difference between us is that Paul allowed himself to be utterly dominated by his madness, whereas I have never let myself be dominated by my equally serious madness; one might say that he was taken over by his madness, whereas I have always exploited mine." (21)Wittgenstein's Nephew begins in a Viennese hospital, where Thomas Bernhard and Paul Wittgenstein, nephew of the great philosopher Ludwig, are forced—for different but related reasons—to lie in separate wings.
The story begins with and centers on illness, madness, and death, which are channeled by the setting of hospital.
He writes here about his friend Paul Wittgenstein, a nephew of the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein whose philosophy of language I studied in college but never understood.
To Thomas Bernhard both Ludwig and Paul were mad philosophers, the only difference between them being that Ludwig was published and became famous while Paul never wrote anything and therefore died in obscurity.
Paul, however, was Thomas Bernhard's friend.
This begins in a Viennese hospital where, in separate pavilions, Paul and Thomas Bernhard are confined, both dying.
Paul, of madness; Thomas, of a lung ailment.
Bernhard records his friendship with Paul Wittgenstein, their mutual sicknesses, then moves on to more usual Bernhard territory (I HATE VIENNESE COFFEE HOUSES BUT ALSO I LOVE THEM!), which is very amusing.
And I had used Paul's dying for my own advantage, exploiting it for all I was worth." (98-9)The narrators of Bernhard's fiction never admit to their own guilt, in large part because they can't find anything worth being guilty before.
In this book, Bernhard does find such a thing, Paul Wittgenstein, a fascinating, loving, difficult friend, to whom he did not and cannot do justice, whom he cannot repay.
Wittgenstein's Nephew is about friendship but in some strange way it reminded me of The Castle by Franz Kafka…Between a man and freedom there is always a wall of bureaucracy…“Paul’s mind quite simply exploded because he could not discard his intellectual fortune fast enough.
In the same way Nietzsche’s mind exploded, just as all the other mad philosophical minds exploded, because they could no longer sustain the pace.
Their intellectual fortune builds up at a faster and fiercer rate than the can discard it, then one day the mind explodes and they are dead.”“For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.”Ecclesiastes 1:18.
De um fôlego. De tirar o fôlego: até à última palavra. Um amigo não é o que aplaude, não é o que diz que tudo está bem quando sabes que não está. Um amigo é outra coisa. Sem tempo, sem lugar ou medida, e nunca morre.
I think Berhard's runon paragraphs are great, the monologue approach he takes to his deeply bent and strangely ethereal characters is right up my alley, in terms of my taste as a reader.
It is naturally a pity that Paul left us no written, printed, or published evidence of his philosophy, such as we have from his uncle Ludwig, both in our hands and in our heads.
I have never talked to Paul about Ludwig, let alone about his philosophy.
Only occasionally, and somewhat to my surprise, Paul would say  of course you know my uncle Ludwig.
Paul, già pilota d’automobili, ballerino, esperto di musica, ma soprattutto intellettuale e filosofo lui pure - a suo modo, in una dimensione privata -, “pecora nera della famiglia” (ma anche il grande Ludwig non era stato acclamato più di tanto dai ricchi affaristi Wittgenstein, “produttori di armi e macchinari”), viene osannato da chi scrive come un “salvatore”: era entrato nella vita di Thomas in una fase molto difficile, di malattia organica e di disagio psichico, e l’aveva aiutato a riprendersi; poi l’amicizia si era consolidata, per sintonia nel dialogo e analogie nelle nevrosi… Paul scivola quindi gradualmente nella pazzia, con l’amicizia che rimane, ma soffre le difficoltà delle manifestazioni concrete.
Amaro, ironico, spietato.Bello!
this is the first Bernhard book I've read.
I was made aware of him by listening to an interview of W.G. Sebald.
in it he mentioned that Bernhard was his mentor.
if he helped Sebald find his voice, he must be special or maybe not.
I was not disappointed .
this is a raw-honest telling of his relationship with Paul Wittgenstein, nephew of Ludwig.
it is about facing death, the cruel reality of aging, and the frailty of our minds and bodies.
sounds like a real bummer of a book, eh.
it is a quick read, being but one paragraph long - one hundred vivid pages long.
Sulla strada tra il Padiglione Ernst e il Padiglione HermannConclusa lo scorso anno la lettura dei cinque (eccellenti) libri dell’autobiografia di Thomas Bernhard, credevo di trovarmi ora al cospetto di un’opera di fiction e invece… “Il nipote di Wittgenstein” è quasi un ulteriore capitolo autobiografico, con molte analogie col terzo libro (Il Respiro), quello che si svolge quasi interamente in ambienti nosocomiali e sanatori.In teoria il soggetto di questo romanzo sarebbe il personaggio cui il titolo è riferito, quel Paul Wittgenstein, nipote del filosofo Ludwig W., che l’autore dichiara essere stato il suo migliore o addirittura unico amico; ma come sempre Bernhardt finisce per parlare soprattutto di sé stesso e sinceramente lo ammette dichiarando che “…queste annotazioni…nel momento stesso in cui mettono in chiaro la situazione del mio amico, dovranno riportare alla mia memoria anche la situazione in cui io mi trovavo allora”.La strada tra il Padiglione Ernst e il Padiglione Hermann rappresenta la breve ma psicologicamente quasi incolmabile distanza che separa i due amici/degenti rispettivamente ricoverati nello stesso periodo, l’uno (Bernhard) nel padiglione di tisiologia, l’altro (Wittgestein) nel padiglione dello stesso ospedale nei pressi di Vienna, riservato ai malati mentali.
But it is all leavened by the nature of the story, which is about Bernhard's brilliant and doomed friend who is Wittgenstein's nephew and equally as brilliant as Ludwig Wittgenstein, even if he never put his brilliant thoughts down on paper.
So this book, which is a rebuke of Bernhard's awful treatment of his friend, is also an eulogy.
It sings the praises of Bernhard's dead friend, Wittgenstein's Nephew, who was also as brilliant, even if he never put his brilliant thoughts down on paper.

Vienna, come sempre, è la cornice detestata e deprecata, con la sua "perfidia genuinamente austriaca", da cui scappare e in cui, malgrado tutto, ritornare."Sempre [...] lui veniva a trovarmi, [...] quando riprendeva il coraggio di andare tra la gente, quando non aveva più da temere gli sguardi sfrontati di chi va a caccia di sensazioni, quando gli ritornava la voglia di parlare con qualcuno o addirittura di filosofare.
Allora compariva a Nathal e [...] prima di tutto ascoltava un disco.
[...] Un Mozart, per piacere.
Uno Strauss, per piacere.
Un Beethoven, per piacere, diceva.
a 100 page book consisting of 1 paragraph should not be this enjoyable to read (I read it in a day), especially without any kind of intriguing plot, flashy language or the like.
But Bernhard's subtle writing style draws you in, always interesting and often hilarious, without appearing like he is trying all that hard to be.
Most of all, it's the line of thought in this book that is the most impressive to me, the way it moves from thought to thought like a very good poem.
I will definitely read more by Bernhard soon.
Another lucky combination for me: I love both morose Ludwig and bitter Thomas. I was in heaven with this book.Ellie NYC
the key to all of Bernhard is on the last page.
Basically I am one of those people who cannot bear to be anywhere and are happy only between places.”I was reading this part last night, and was very affected by it.
Point being that sickness of any kind makes you want to yearn for a change, only to realise that you're still sick, even after the change.
There's no home, nor is there a place like it.
For Paul Wittgenstein, Ludwig Wittgenstein's nephew and the author - this home was the Wilhelminenberg.
For another slice of time, this home was the cafe they frequented.
This thing of darkness, fascinating & booklined darkness, was wrought -- so claims its narrator, one Thomas Bernhard -- from his late-1960s stay in a Vienna pulmonary ward, when he shared a room with the nephew of the title.
The narrative proceeds via this desperate & diseased unburdening, undoing all sorts of pieties & vanities, & the impulse to strip away the glitter soon infects the narrator's spirit as well; his artistic calling, the impulse behind this very writing, comes to seem just another new suit of clothes for the Emperor.
The respect Thomas and Paul have for each other, the progress of their friendship, their own parallels, their respective places in society and in their families, that's the main stuff of this book.For me, I am made nostalgic for Vienna's First District, by the geography of its streets and parks, buildings, restaurants, cafes.And today it seems to me that we can count on the fingers of one hand all the people who have really meant anything to us in the course of our lives, and very often this one hand protests at our perversity in believing that we need a whole hand in order to count them, for to be honest we could probably make do without a single finger."Viennese coffeehouse disease"the Neue Zürcher Zeitung episodethe perfidy of the Austrians--the Grillparzer PrizePaul--inventive and sensitive; opera lover and Formula One loverThomas--hates nature bec.
Thomas conoció a Paul a través de Irina, una amiga mutua, y pronto se vio que compartían opinión sobre muchos temas, como por ejemplo su amor por la música, de la que Paul es gran experto, sobre todo en óperas.
Thomas estaba en el pabellón Hermann, dedicado a los enfermos de pulmón, ya que está afectado por un tumor en el tórax, y Paul estaba en el pabellón Ludwig, la zona del manicomio, en el que debía ingresar cada poco tiempo para volver a restablecerse.Bernhard, en una especie de relato autobiográfico, ahonda en lo que significó para él su amigo Paul, despreciado por su familia, al igual que su tío Ludwig, el gran filósofo.
This is a story of friendship between two sick people: Thomas Bernhard, who has a serious pulmonary disease and is probably mad, and Paul Wittgenstein, the nephew of the great philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, who is certifiably mad.
Another concerns the stupidity of literary prizes: " .
Still, beneath all of these bitter but fascinating diatribes is a warm, troubling story about a friendship and the way in which we inevitably and sadly withdraw when we begin to see death written on our friend's face.
It is a story as old as "The Epic of Gilgamesh" and finds another powerful expression in "Wittgenstein's Nephew."
it's only 100 pages long, but that's still a pretty long paragraph.it's kind of a prose poem, so it's sort of interesting that i actually enjoyed it in translation, since i often don't like translations at all.
He uses a lot of repetition, and some people might find the style annoying, but i liked it.basically, it's about his friendship with Paul Wittgenstein, who was the nephew of Ludwig Wittgenstein.
He talks a lot about paul's madness and his own lung disease and how they were related to how horrible life is and how awful almost all the people in the world are and especially austrians.

A whole book written in one paragraph. Incredible!
Tím je Paul Wittgenstein (synovec známého filozofa Ludwiga Wittgensteina), který byl pro nechvalně proslulé záchvaty "šílenství" zatracen svými příbuznými a celou vídeňskou smetánkou.
Tímto začíná Thomas Berhnhard vzpomínat na jejich přátelství, okolnosti seznámení a rozvíjí tak i v přítomnosti pokračující příběh.
Nutí nás klást si otázky a vzpomínat na naše přátele, přítomné či nepřítomné.
Celý příběh vnímám trochu jako zpověď a snahu o odpuštění, o zpřítomnění významného člověka, kterým Paul Wittgenstein pro Bernharda bezpochyby byl.
The poet, playwright and novelist Thomas Bernhard wrote a fictionalized memoir of his friendship with the Austrian bon vivant Paul Wittgenstein.
And it is a lament of our natural timidity in facing the death of a friend.Paul Wittgenstein is a creation of Bernhard's imagination.
Nephew of the great philosopher Ludwig and scion of the fabulously wealthy Wittgenstein family, Paul spent his early life as an international playboy driving race cars, sailing, attending the opera, seducing women and consuming champagne, or so Bernhard would have us believe.
Son demlerini yaşadıkları hayata öfke dolu iki dosttur, Paul (Wittgenstein'in Yeğeni ) ve Bernhard.
Roman, Bernhard'ın zihninden aktarılan öfke dolu bir monolog.
Kitabın duygusu: her öfke ve her monolg gibi acıtıcı, tekrarlanan ve aynı kalan bir şeyler...
Daha önce hiç Thomas Bernhard okumamıştım.
Kitabın sonunda Orhan Pamuk'un yorumları da çok aydınlatıcı oldu benim için.
Orhan Pamuk “güvenli dünyalarından çıkmayı göze alamayanlar okumasın” demiş, doğru söylemiş.
Goodreads deki yorumlardan "The novella is based in part on a true story: author Bernhard's friendship with philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein's grand nephew, Paul." ve wikipedia'ya göre eser otobiyografik bir roman.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wittgen...

