https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2857327-beyond-the-black-river
Conan battles the savage Picts in an attempt to protect Aquilonian settlers who have established homesteads on the border of their territory.This is one of Robert E Howard’s best stories, with powerful, evocative prose and a well-constructed frontier milieu.
Howard had a life-long interest in historical fiction and wrote some himself.
Here, we can see a setting that is clearly analogous to the Old West and the uneasy relationship that existed between settlers and American Indians.
Howard was a giant among the old pulp authors.
None were better than him at constructing a novella-length narrative with epic sweep.
Conan was and will be one of my favorite fantasy characters. I 've read many of his stories and even more are yet to be read. The ultimate adventurer. Almost inhuman. Castaway by modern norms and political correctness. Though in my opinion he is neither sexist nor racist. He is the epitome of what a man could be. And thus is envied and hated. But “Barbarianism is the natural state of mankind. Civilization is unnatural. It is the whim of circumstance. And barbarianism must ultimately triumph” Or not. It's fiction. Good read.
This collection of long stories contains 4 Conan stories, including the under-appreciated “Jewels of Gwahlur” aka “The Servants of Bit-Yakin”. Like anything by Howard, it's worth the trip. Included here also is the collaborative story “The Challenge from Beyond”, which Howard worked on with no less than C.L. Moore, A. Merritt, H.P. Lovecraft, and Frank Belknap Long. The differences in style are obvious and the transitions are marked in italics, so we can see the moment that Lovecraft's sequel t
This collection of long stories contains 4 Conan stories, including the under-appreciated “Jewels of Gwahlur” aka “The Servants of Bit-Yakin”.
Included here also is the collaborative story “The Challenge from Beyond”, which Howard worked on with no less than C.L. Moore, A.
The differences in style are obvious and the transitions are marked in italics, so we can see the moment that Lovecraft's sequel to “The Shadow Out of Time” becomes Howard's own weird brand of manly madness.
The Conan stories here are all classics, and I especially enjoy “Jewels of Gwahlur” for it's distinctive setting and abundant weirdness.
Opening: 1 Conan Loses His AxThe stillness of the forest trail was so primeval that the tread of a soft-booted foot was a startling disturbance.
He was a young man of medium height, with an open countenance and a mop of tousled tawny hair unconfined by cap or helmet.
His garb was common enough for that country—a coarse tunic, belted at the waist, short leather breeches beneath, and soft buckskin boots that came short of the knee.
The broad leather belt supported a short, heavy sword and a buckskin pouch.
One of Howard's better stories. Here, we follow Conan as he fights to defend a outpost from the local Picts who are none too pleased to have Aquilonians moving into their territory. The Pictish tribes have united, and with the help of a dark wizard, move to destroy the invading settlers. The story flows wonderfully, gaining steam as it moves along, and the action is vivid.
For me the is THE Conan story. I loved it the most and yet nothing really happened in it.
This volume contains one of the best of all Conan stories, "Beyond The Black River". These stories are presented unedited as they originally appeared in the magazine. Highly recommended
Other Conan stories are filled with intrigue, betrayal, sexual tension, conflict, and heroism. This one is flat-out brutal.It's an interesting one because Conan's basically multi-classed as a ranger, in this one. He even gets an animal companion. He also gets a male companion rather than his usual female.His enemies in this one are the fierce Picts, who are evil, savage, and genuinely frightening. Lots of gore in this one, so prepare yourself. Good stuff.
Beyond the Black River is my favorite Conan story. It is Conan at his most glorious, and at his most developed as a character. No damsel in distress in this one, just an admiring fellow warrior (Balthus) and an awesome avenging dog beast (Slasher), whose exploits will live long in Aquilonian history.
Kind of another one of his "let's add Conan into the stories. Good build up, but the sudden end surprised me as to it's abruptness. This book took a short turn in an awkward direction and then had to end too suddenly.
Immersive and well-paced, "Beyond the Black River" is a fun bit of adventurous nihilism that may be a dark salve for these times of capitalist decay (if you can get beyond the incredible racism).
Solid fantasy. Down to earth and grim as only Conan can be. Short and to the point like a broadsword.
A sword and sorcery genre classic.
An interesting book.
I struggled with the book of it because if one was to erase the name Conan and some of these stranger place names you could literally take this tale and put it into Old West or even the frontier prior to the Revolutionary War. I was a bit perplexed by Conan in this story.
At times he seemed like an educated gentleman and then other times he became a ferocious savage.
I know the writer was attempting to show us a character with death but sometimes the flip and switch between educated bourgeoisie and wild and ferocious savage was so stark that it jolted me out of the story.
As the Aquilonian's push the frontiers of their expanding empire westwards into the Pictish wilderness, they hand out their idea of justice to a powerful wizard named Zogar Sag, who in turn promises to have his revenge on those men that dared to cross him.When those men turn 'loon' and wander off into the forest to meet their fate, the captain of the camp fears for moral and calls on the woodcraft of Conan, 'barbarian of a thousand generations of barbarians' to lead a raiding party into uncivilized Gwawela.'Beyond the Black River' is arguably the quintessential Conan story.
I'm not an aficionado of Howard's work (this is the first I've read; I was drawn to it through my love of the soundtrack for the original film), and I'm not fully aware of the social and cultural context in which Howard was was writing, but there are some obviously racist elements in the story which a modern reader might find jarring.
It's possible to read these in the frontier spirit of the world in which it's set (think the barbarian frontier of the Roman Empire, a historiographical view of the late antique world prominent at Howard's time of writing), but the blunt delivery doesn't help.
A Witch Shall Be Born2 STARSThis is a really good story in many ways, but it feels like too much story crammed into such a small space.
Too much telling going on to get the point across.
This could have done better as a full length novel.The Grisly Horror3 STARS A well written short story.
Jewels Of Gwahlur3 STARSAnother good short.
Beyond The Black River2 STARSDespite some really good points, this story had too many scenes where explanation interfered with the action.
But in a good kind of way.
Shadows In Zamboula 3 STARSPretty good story.
"He was a man," said Conan. "I drink to his shade, and to the shade of the dog, who knew no fear." He quaffed part of the wine, then emptied the rest upon the floor, with a curious heathen gesture, and smashed the goblet. "The heads of ten Picts shall pay for his, and seven heads for the dog, who was a better warrior than many a man."[...]"Barbarism is the natural state of mankind," the borderer said, still staring somberly at the Cimmerian. "Civilization is unnatural. It is a whim of circumstance. And barbarism must always ultimately triumph."
If you've never read Robert E. Howard's Conan stories, this is as good a place as any to start. A fun read with muscular prose and a love of language that makes this era's love of limited vocabulary and clear prose seem bland. Fight scenes, action, exotic creatures, and a story that pits civilization against barbarism (Howard comes down on the side of barbarism). Sword and sorcery (a genre Howard invented) at its finest.
This is routinely called the best Conan short story, sorta like King Lear is considered Shakespeare's greatest tragedy (yes, I'm being facetious here). "Beyond the Black River" IS good. Both entertaining and rather scary at times too. I've enjoyed other Conan stories more, though, like "People of the Black Circle" and "Red Nails."
One of the best short stories about Conan by Robert E. Howard in terms of writing style, plot, and other measurments of writing. Also my personal favorite. I must have read this particular story a half dozen times although this was the first time I have listened to the audiobook. The audiobook is free through librivox.org which is a great site for getting to know the classics.
One of the best of the Conan stories.I believe it's the only one in full length novel form.The situation is a frontier outpost under attack from savage natives, and Conan gets embroiled in pure survival. He has to use as many of his skills and cunning at his disposal to survive, and hopefully live to tell the tale.
Ahhh, here were all the stereotypical things I was expecting in a Conan story. Muscle-y bodies lovingly described, violence rendered in detail, blah blah blah. I can see why young boys (and maybe girls) would like it. Alas, I am not that so label me pretty underwhelmed.
An original Conan the Barbarian story, this is unapologetically bloody. Conan is faced with preventing an invasion by clans of Picts, united under and evil sorcerer who can call animals from the jungle to do his bidding.Please read the complete review here.
Timeless ClassicAlways a thoroughly enjoyable read.Robert E. Howard's universe beckons.Will you heed the call of the frontier, and risk the monster's wrath?Hold close your sword and axe, may cold steel hold you to truth.
Not what I thought it would be.. But still pioneer for it's time...
Going to read every book about Conan and then not have to think about this any more!This story was great. Would love to have conan the barbarian HBO show.
False
More blood and guts from Howard, with many long Conan stories. The pace is swift, the action bloody and intense, but you'll have to slog through the prejudices of an earlier age in spots.
