https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1038586.Untouched_By_Human_Hands
First book I have ever read by Robert Sheckley. 13 short stories, most of which appeared in Galaxy magazine in 1952 and 1953. The collection was originally published in 1954. I enjoyed all but one of the stories. Most of the stories are humorous sf. Thankfully Open Road Media has republished most of Sheckley's order works.
Outrageously original, wickedly funny sci-fi.
I was lamenting the quality of recent sci-fi reads to a librarian (Jim, from the Fiction Department of LAPL Central) and he handed me this book.
After reading his Wikipedia Bio, I suspect the powerful (and often sinister or stupid) female characters are the result of his own troubled relationships (he married five times.) The author's bitter, cerebral satires had a nearly Russian flavor; at times the situations slide into slapstick.
Every story was a gem, but I'll always be especially fond of 'Monsters', the first, because the brilliance of the author was so unique and unexpected.
This may be one of Sheckley's best collection of short stories. It's a fun, witty look at the human condition. Enjoyable all the way through!
Robert Sheckley is one of the best short story writers to come along in the 20th century in science fiction. This book is a collection of stories from 1954. Some were published in Galaxy and other scifi magazines popular back then. If you love a good story, you are going to like this collection.
umorismo (che spesso e volentieri è satira sociale)e idee per una raccolta che definire perfetta è un eufemismo. sheckley è un genio autentico, e questa raccolta un obbligo.
A short story collection by one of the overlooked SF masters of the 1950's - 1960's. Clever & darkish. Recommended to fans of Douglas Adams &/or Theodore Sturgeon.
Rarely in this particular idiom will you find a complete collection of stories that are so compulsively readable; generally there will be a limp squib or three; this is absolutely not the case with 'Untouched by Human Hands'.
The first tale 'Monsters' is a pristine example of A) The perfect sf short story and B) the unmitigated genius of Sheckley.
Sci-fi short stories from the 1950s. Considered one of the best sci-fi short story writers of all time. He had a humorous bent similar to Douglas Adams at times, though these are not really humorous stories. See also his other short story collections from this period:Pilgrimage to EarthCitizen in Space
this is sheckley's very first collection (1954). it's nice because he hasn't quite narrowed his focus yet so there are a lot of very different kinds of stories. some of them don't do much for me but some are among my favorites of his (including "the monsters," "the altar," "the impacted man," the PKD-ian "warm," and above all "shape," which is really just a beautiful story, kind of like The Far Side gone biblical).probably gonna take a little break from sheckley now. before i completely dull the edge.
My new favorite author. That's all I have to say. Amazing ideas, wonderfully executed! Fascinating!
Sheckley's short stories are excellent. I like them, especially Arnold & Gregor's stories.
I liked 'Monsters', about a culturally different alien race encountering human visitors.
(I've been re-watching Star Trek: The Next Generation lately, and it would be fun to see the Enterprise crew meeting these guys and seeing if they still believe in their absurd 'Prime Directive'.)'Seventh Victim' was also excellent.
You'll be assigned a Victim, and you have two weeks to kill him.
Our protagonist has already killed twelve men - six times as Hunter, six times as Victim.
Two human space travellers run out of food on a long voyage, and their last resort is a vast alien warehouse.
A volte non sempre a fuoco nei romanzi, lo statunitense Sheckley ha in special modo dato il meglio di sé sulla distanza più contenuta del racconto: le sue storie brevi sono uscite in più raccolte, di cui questa ne racchiude nove scritte nella prima metà degli anni Cinquanta, quando il loro autore non era neppure trentenne.
Non molto da meno sono l’amaro ‘Pellegrinaggio alla Terra’ – che narra di un colono torna al pianeta madre alla ricerca di un amore che scopre di potersi solo comprare – o la commedia degli equivoci narrata in ‘Criminali cercansi’, dove una civiltà vergine rischia di essere inquinata dai vizi umani - un tema analogo è presente anche ne ‘I mostri’.
Told from the POV of the aliens, who must kill their female mates every 25 days to limit the explosive female population.8 "Cost of Living" A man always must have the best for his family and he can always sign up his income to pay the easy terms.
Humans turn out to be primitive pushers, and one man is abducted and shown his rightful place in the universe.6 "Seventh Victim" Murder is legalised under certain circumstances.
When I moved to Grinnell College as a freshman to room with my high school friend Richard Hyde, our nextdoor neighbor in Loose Hall was one Rick Strong, a sophomore from Riverdale in the Bronx.
He was the first New Yorker I ever got to know, the first serious musician, and, like me, a long-time science fiction fan.Unlike me at that time, Rick was also very funny and had a particular liking for Robert Sheckley, himself a science fiction writer of a humorous bent.
This, I believe, was the first Sheckley book Rick loaned me.
First short story collection from Robert Sheckley, copyrighted in 1954. I have encountered some of these other stories in other anthologies before. My favorite short-story of all time is Sheckley's "The Specialist" a very clever story about mankind's true purpose. The story Daemons was made into an episode of the show "Monsters." Someone should make an anthology TV series called Robert Sheckley Theater as a lot of his stories have a "Twilight Zone" or "Outer Limits" feel to them and deserve to be translated at least to the small screen, if not the big one.
Really good stories - as can be expected of Sheckley. Generally unique and fun, but occasionally with a dose of melancholy and wistfulness. "Warm" is the most esoteric, but also nihilistic. My favorite in this collection is probably "The Impacted Man." This collection is recommended for all readers.
Прекрасен сборник с разкази на един от любимите ми писатели фантасти Робърт Шекли. Свежи, стегнати и динамични истории, написани с неповторимо чувство за хумор, което понякога преминава в социална сатира. Повечето разкази биха могли да служат за пример за изграждане на сюжет с неочакван край. Задължителна книга за любителите на жанра!
This was a delightful and very creative collection of sci fi short stories. It's the first I've read of Sheckley and I guess these are very early, so it will be interesting to explore whatever else he's written.
One of the better collections of Robert Sheckley short stories.
Probably the best science fiction book I've ever read -- for it's insight and humor. Unfortunately the book is now out of print, to the best of my knowledge.
Very readable classic sci-fi, structured in the Twilight Zone tradition. Often funny, always concise.
He's a master at taking a novel concept that turns the world, or some notion of the expected, on it's head in some aspect, and using that as the backdrop to tell a focused, entertaining story, often sprinkled with ample humor and tongue-in-cheek wit.
Una serie de relatos cortos -marcados, a veces, por la época en la que fueron publicados- que remite a la obra de varios autores contemporáneos como ser Jack Vance o Richard Matheson, Sheckley propone pequeñas fábulas o moralejas que se rematan casi siempre con ingenioso humor y, si bien puede pesarles un poco el paso de los años, funcionan en su mayoría lo más bien.
De los cuentos aquí antologados, no destaca especialmente el que da título a la traducción en español (habría que ver luego, cuando el propio Sheckley ampliara el concepto) como sí lo hacen el divertidisimo "Los deseos del Rey" o el sorprendente "La voz".
Very easy and enjoyable book of sci-fi short stories. Would highly recommend. Reminded me a lot of Bradbury ("Martian Chronicles") and Simak ("City"). A must-read for any sci-fi classics fan or fantasy nerd! Just wish it was longer!My favorite stories were:Cost of LivingThe AltarShapeSpecialist
Като магьосник с думите, Шекли ни преняся в бъдещето и в непознати светове, боравейки с тънък хумор и заплетени сюжетни линии. Тази книга е истинско удоволствие за четене, представяйки общочовешки проблеми през призмата на фантастиката. Определено няма да е последното, което ще прочета от Шекли и библиотека "Галактика".
Non male: divertente, con risvolti inaspettati, eppure sempre imperniata sugli uomini, la loro ricerca della pace e la tranquillità e la parallela lotta fra di loro e il menefreghismo verso la natura.
I was surprised by how much fun I had listening to these old Sheckley stories. They are clever and funny, and very typical for 1950s science fiction.
One of the books I can read again and again ..
All stories are very unique and while I can't say I liked every single of them "The Demons" made me laugh hard and "Seventh Victim" is amazing too.
