https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7933615-hidden
Whatever, in the end, the characters disgust me, and I hate how the authors try to attract the youth by saying the stupidest shit ever, I mean really, those people that talk like Zoey, yeah they arn't even interested in reading actuall literature.
I'm sorry, if you don't like this review, then you can read another one, cuz I'm keeping this up, 50+ people agree with me and I wanna see it get to 100 lol(: I'm not a hater, I just dislike the characters, alot.
Nah, they're free blowjobs(: you guy, in the back, reading this, I bet you wished for a girl like that right?
EDIT: This was actually OK.---For the record, I hate this series like I've hated no other. But I just want to know what happens next... :/Why must I be so masochistic?Ah, it's definitely a love-hate kinda thing. Love the plot. Hate everything else.
Hanging plot points, missing favourite cuddly toys of a sort that seemed to have disappeared from book one, characters indecisive of their death-statuses and idiotic language used has led me to perceive the huge fans of this series this way in my review, simply because it it clearly how the authors perceive them.
All they do in the book is speak of Erin behind her back, wonder what is going on instead of thinking, hey, let's stop being self-absorbed in our own worlds and turn our attention to a friend that CLEARLY NEEDS DIRECTION.
Sometimes I wonder why I keep reading this book...I feel so frustrated by the writing sometimes, it just...
UGHHHHH.If I were Zoey and her friends, Neferet would be DEAD.
I mean, why doesn't Stark just use his magical ability of not being able to miss a shot to shoot Neferet in the head, and she'd be dead!
I mean come on, Stark, if you wanted Zoey to be happy you'd kill Neferet and take her out of her misery.
Make her happy!
Oh Stark you sneaky little...
Anyways kill her And all their troubles would go away.
or twelve...) books!
I WANT MORE REPHAIM IN MY LIFE!!!CAN'T WAIT TO READ THIS ^^
Except this one. Seriously, they were running out of ideas in book 5. And now we're on book 10?
Because, let’s be real, between main villain / evil vampire Neferet being more resilient than a cockroach, Zoey and the gang’s obnoxious petty drama, and the million side characters carefully crafted to take up space in lieu of real plots, these books have been treading water for awhile and sinking fast.But, as they say, if you get enough monkeys on enough typewriters over enough time, they’ll produce Shakespeare.
It just seems to me like there wasn’t enough plot and storyline for a full book so we had to be subjected to B stories about secondary characters who’ve long overstayed their welcome / fifteen minutes of fame.No, this entire series has overstayed its welcome.
At least a good proportion of the male characters take a love interest with Zoey, the new, different fledgling with great powers, so like the stupid heroine she is, she decides to date every guy and is utterly heartbroken when her hot BF dumps her!
Zoey's friends are sometimes more perfect than herself and are completely useless cardboard cut outs (which, by the way, there is an excessive amount of characters to keep track of anymore).
However, every single damn character is written out of perfection in this book.

This is for those of you who have made mistakes, and who are brave enough to correct them, and wise enough to learn from them.  2.5 stars. Believe it or not, that was the dedication at the front of the book. I think the Casts could probably turn their dedication back around on themselves, seeing as how they've taken the fan complaints to heart and reigned in some of the most blatant issues with House of Night.Yes, I know. I'm still reading this trainwreck of a series. Hard to believe, isn't it
I get that young people insult each other for fun but there couldn't have been something else to use for the sake of realism other than retard?), I seem to be mellowing out when it comes to the House of Night crew.
It's no secret that I've never been a fan of Zoey but I have grown fonder of Rephaim, Kalona, Stevie Ray and Aphrodite.
"Wanta get wet with me?"Hey, I've already accepted that this series is ridiculously immature, yet it still somehow manages to be extremely sexually charged at the same time.
The Casts do a great job making her dance across the page.The beginning of the series and the near-end of the series are quite like day and night (no pun intended).
I didn’t notice this in the beginning of the series, maybe due to the humorous immaturity of the characters, but it’s very noticeable now that Zoey isn’t the only narrator.One thing that totally threw me off about Hidden is the fact that the entire book, 305 pages, takes place over only two or three days.
I cannot recommend the House of Night series enough for readers who want an original, hilarious and ultimately engaging set of books.
I don't love this series but I don't actually hate this its just in the middle for me and I wanted to know how it will end so I continue on reading this series and right know I'm just waiting for this book HIDDEN and I do hope it will end in here cause honestly I'm getting bored at it the only reason I'm still reading this is because of STARK!!!
I hate him cause he have this.....Oh I'm so strong I can do anything for ZOEY......attidude that I so much despise I wanted to gag.....
this needs to come out sooner
Just to let everyone know so far there are going to be 12 books in this series.
Both P.C. Cast and her daughter stated this back in 2009 on the Rachel Ray show when they were there to promote Hunted (interview can be seen on youtube).
I personal like the series and can't wait for this one to come out.
The only thing that I would have wanted them to do differently is to stop dragging out the fight with Nef. But still I can't wait to see how the books go and how they are going to take down Nef.
Even I was starting to think she was a slut.2)  Someone important to the story will die, 'cause PC's been killing off characters left and right recently, and I'm reeeeeally hoping, like everyone's been telling me, that it won't be Lenobia.
I'm hoping the Warrior's Oath means he chose Light, because I reaaaaally love me some Kalona.11)  This book could see us back in Italy at the site of the Vampyre High Council, and maybe even back on Skye!
So PC, Stevie Rae should like Kalona.13)  Possibly an Imprint between Zoey and Aurox?
Zoey and the gang are back at the House of Night trying to pick up the pieces from everything that happened at the end of the last book. And surprise, deal with all the new...and old problems that are cropping up!This book, this series, makes me feel like this: Everything is frustrating! The plot, the characters, the writing...some things are better and some things are worse. And some of the things that were better are worse again. But the very bottom line is that this series has it's hooks in m
Zoey and the gang are back at the House of Night trying to pick up the pieces from everything that happened at the end of the last book.
And surprise, deal with all the new...and old problems that are cropping up!This book, this series, makes me feel like this:
The group is doing a lot better besides the twin drama.
The drama wasn't all that intense in this book and it only makes you wonder how they are going to set up things for the grand finale.
1.5/5 ~ ENG only because it’s not worth it.And I’m here once again to talk about nothing lolYes, this is another filler book in this endless series of which I can’t wait to get rid of, seriously.
Since the previous book I saw that the story wasn’t going forward, nothing was happening until the very last chapter and this book is exactly the same.I’m so pissed because I hate filler books, especially if the first ones were very good and exciting.Why?
Not good.And I’m not talking about 100 pages filler books but these last two have nearly 400 lolNothing happens, seriously, nothing.
also therez some more stuffz and i still don't know how to curze properly even tho i'm supposed to be diz chick that every1's supposed to adore and shit...And all I could do then was Because I could not WAIT to hear the end of Zoe's long-time whining about what and who she should do.
I just can't wait for the time when I finally get to the end (I mean, I've endured this much, why not?)
I can understand why everybody is so tired of reading these books and I can relate, but why would you continue to read it if you're going to have such a negative input on it?
I honestly still read them simply because it's a good story line for the most part.
It's like being in another world, and honestly, I think that the addition of those kins of things help me get into the atmosphere of the house of night.
If you don't like the books, maybe you should stop reading them and stop writing reviews for them.
I truly enjoy these books to an extent and I'm ready to read the latest addition.
I mean really if you don't like the books don't read it and don't post on here about how you "HATE" or "Dislike" the books cause if I were the authors and people were talking crap about my books I would hunt them down and kill them but then again that's me.
But if you have nothing nice to say about the books don't say anything at all.
any way enough of the losers I can't wait to read the new book!!!
am really glad the new book is coming out!!
Full review at https://jazza1997.wixsite.com/thebook...Just putting this out there. I had high hopes for this book but.... It really didn't satisfy what I was hoping for the outcome. Check out the full review on my blog for more details.
Is this the last one? I just finished book 6 and I am kind of sick of it...how many more books can there be? I hate hate when authors write more and more and more instead of letting it end on a high note. Thank God Richelle Mead and Karen Marie Moning, ended Vampire Academy and the Fever series while it was still addicting...6 books should probably the tops, unless you are following different characters.
I am so eager to read this book! I can't wait to see what happens with kalona as the new sword master and rephaim!! This book is going to be covered in awesomesauce :)
Is pizza finally going to get his ass off of the couch and finish this series once and for all?
It hurts my insides thinking about how I'm actually going to buy this books when it comes out.
But as the end looms closer, Zoey and her gang of stupid friends find a MOTHER FUCKING TIME MACHINE.
In this 20th installment of the House Of Night Series, read about how Zoey and the gang travel back in time to the first book, and experience the WONDER and MAGIC of the HOUSE OF NIGHT all over again, in the next book to follow!
I just hate that the latter half of this series has been the general template of dragging out the "build-up" for the final showdown at the end of each book.And Zoey Redbird's "I'm tired of people talking about my boy issues." Me too, girl, me too.
I'm sorry, but there are enough guys to go around.Yeah, I'm really getting tired of this series.
But even more tired that it's basically the same ol' same ol' that's being dragged out, again and again.
What did they say in the book, "the never ending battle against darkness."
Like Zoey would say "Ah hell" Another amazing sequel by the author we know and love. If you haven't read the previous books read them. The book was alot about Aurox getting to know himself and his position in the world. Loved that Lenobia was reunited with her true love. Neferet has to come up with some more creative evil plans that will give some oomph to the book. Neferet was just to predictable. Didn't end on a cliffhanger so not sure what to expect in the next one..anxiously waiting..
Pre-reading, Pre-release:please, PLEASE tell me this is the last book in the series!
The onl reason I'm still reading this series is because I HAVE to know how it ends, but I don't think I can hang on for much longer.the first three books are okay, I guess...
At book 6 I started really HATING this series.
After book 6 I read book 7 hoping they would bring Heath back and they didn't but I kept with it because Stevie Rae and Rephaim were awesome enough to keep me interested.
But I seriously can not see the series ending in a way that will make ANYONE happy.
i can't wait till this book come out!!It's gonna be SO AWSOME.I mean Awaken by P.C.Cast was HOT! And i just can't for this version of her book to come out! I'm like screaming with excitement.(AHHHH!THAT'S HOW I FEEL INSIDE,CAN'T WAIT FOR ANOTHER ONE OF HER HIT'S!)
I have long stopped caring about the characters and the plots of the House of Night series.
My goodness.As to the villain Neferet, 10 books into the series she's still one hell of a boring, annoying and unworthy villain.
Plus if she were as powerful, terrifying and evil as the Casts would have us believe, Neferet should have long started a reign of terror and made everyone's life miserable already!Take my words, the only way I can come out okay with the HON series is to shut down my brain whenever I read one of those books in the series.
(hide spoiler)] These authors also tend to create storylines by flip-flopping character loyalties back and forth: Oh, no, Erin used to be good but now she's bad!, Kalona used to be bad, but now he's good!,  etc.
Most of the males in this novel are nothing more than personality-devoid orbs of testosterone, but interactions like "'I'm getting off the bus, Stark.' 'Okay, Zoey, and remember, I will be waiting for you.
(view spoiler)[You can't just kill off a major character in an epilogue that was posted to a website and not actually included in the published version of the book...not to mention that was the most anti-climactic death I've ever seen.
