https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1183852.Ralestone_Luck
I know she is known cor her sci-fi or fantasy, but her suspense is fantastic. The characters come alive, and they are believable in their conflicts with the outside world. I hope that I can be as prolific a writer as she.
3 1/2 stars. This was a very enjoyable tale. It took me a little while adjust to the Librivox narrator's accent but once I did, I found I liked him.
Very pleased to have rediscovered an old favorite author..I first started reading Ms Norton about 40 years ago, but had never seen this, as is only read her fantasy and science fiction. This has moat of the wonder and mystery of those, but more humor and a wry wink. I don't think i would have liked it as much as a young person, and am quite happy to have found it now. It's a gem.
Given the author and the book cover, I thought I was in for a different type of story, but it turns out, its a family mystery of sorts. Nothing futuristic or magical.That said, it was an enjoyable read with interesting characters, set in Louisiana in the 1930's.
This book is a mystery, first time I have read one by Andre Norton, I do not usually read this genre to be honest, but I liked this story.
Andre Norton was my favorite author back in the 70s. Has it really been that long?This isn't sci-fi, but still a good story with good plot twists and one final surprise at the end.
Product Description Her brother Val watched the gas gage on the instrument board of the roadster fluctuate wildly as the attendant of the station shook the hose to speed the flow of the last few drops.  About the Author For well over a half century, Andre Norton has been one of the most popular science fiction and fantasy authors in the world. Since her first SF novels were published in the 1940s, her adventure SF has enthralled readers young and old. With series such as_ Time Traders, Solar Qu
For well over a half century, Andre Norton has been one of the most popular science fiction and fantasy authors in the world.
With series such as_ Time Traders, Solar Queen, Forerunner, Beast Master, Crosstime, _and Janus, as well as many stand-alone novels, her tales of action and adventure throughout the galaxy have drawn countless readers to science fiction.
Her fantasy, including the best-selling Witch World series, her "Magic" series, and many other unrelated novels, has been popular with readers for decades.
Lauded as a Grand Master by the Science Fiction Writers of America, she is the recipient of a Life Achievement Award from the World Fantasy Convention.
This was a odd sort of book, I must admit; it's historic, about three siblings moving into a house (their ancestral home, in fact) and the mystery which surrounds it.
The elder brother was a red headed writer (but hiding it), the middle brother a dark haired air pilot who crashed and hurt himself, and the red haired sister a spitfire.
There were "Red Ralestones" and "Black Ralestones" with that meaning; their family's Luck has gone missing.
(The Luck ends up being a sword).
They find much more, in the end, than what they sought.

A fun and short book.
the characters are rather dated and some of the culture is out of date but a fun story and a bit of mystery.
Always helps if it is good writer who makes the characters come alive.
The Ralestone is a lost sword and the purpose of an old family heritage.
There is a story of restored glory for an old Bayou Family, complete with scalawags, lawyers, swamp foxes and old slaves still loyal to the "old ways".
A simple "all's well" in the end.
As a side note, I think I read this in series in Boy's Life when a young Scout.
This is Norton's 1st published work, copyrighted in 1938, when Norton was still in her late teens.Given that Norton spent little time in bayou country (as far as I can tell), there are a few glaring errors (underground tunnels in the area would be underwater, for example, unless the house was up on a rare rise of land). Still, a creditable first effort.
She didn't write just scifi or fantasy books. This one is the story of 3 young people claiming their inheritance in Louisiana after some family tragedy. They find the family treasure and the 2 oldest find what they will do in life. Nice young adult book
It could almost be Gothic, if it weren't as light hearted as the Boxcar Children. The last scions of the Ralestone family, penniless and uprooted, return to their old family home in the States. There's all sorts of intrigue and mystery and sass.
Ralestone LuckLost swords, buried treasure, swamps, and bad guys makes this a rollicking good book. You do have to gloss over the stereotypes but it is typical for books written in that era.
Pirate TreasureThis is one of Andre Norton's few novels that have no fantasy or science fiction elements. It's an adventure story set in New Orleans during The Great Depression where the title family is searching for treasure left by a pirate ancestor centuries before.
Grade B-. Not SciFi. Sort of historical, teen in the 1930s I think.
One of Andre Norton's first books, and not science fiction. It is a mystery set around New Orleans in the 30's. A fun read.
This was a predictable mystery, but I still enjoyed the story.
not one of the better books by andre norton, bu it wasnt agony to read. it was just a bit too predictable and sort of dated, but maybe that was what she was going for? hmm... maybe not.
An Andre Norton juvenile, and an early one at that. I enjoy a lot of Norton's works, including juveniles, and some may enjoy this, but not I
An old-fashioned but enjoyable romp.
This was apparently Andre Norton's first published book & a good effort. Obviously written for teenagers, it was an enjoyable if not outstanding read.
Interesting book, although it did stretch belief at times.
Not my thing, although if I was the age of the book's intended audience (MG) I probably would have enjoyed it more.
55/100. A casual "mystery-ish" story for not too small children.
