https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13064.Tourist_Season
Reading this for my book club and, while I have read a few Hiaasen books before, I have always wanted to go back and start at the beginning.
For me, it is very odd and unrealistic, but it adds a nice bit of crazy humor to the story.
In this novel, it took me about 1/3 of the way to get used to the style.In the end, I liked the story and the style quite a bit.
Despite being odd, it was also very touching at points; heroes you want to cheer for and tragic villains you kinda feel sorry for.I will leave you with images of 1980s Miami - this is what I pictured the whole time:
If your child wants to grow up to be president, you’d want them to model themselves after Abe Lincoln and not Warren Harding or Franklin Pierce.The novel, Hiaasen’s first, is pretty good, but you can see Hiaasen measuring himself up against the master.
Fortunately, here he sticks with what he knows best: the newspaper business, civilization encroaching upon the everglades and Southern Florida.
It wasn’t until later novels that Hiaasen heavily embraced (for good or ill) his quirky nature.
** Eccentric Florida literature has become a mini-genre unto itself, Goodreads recommended scores of books of this type.
*My Goodreads friends from Florida, of course, are the exceptions.** I say, why wait, do it now.
4.5 stars, loss of 1/2 star for outrageously callous attitude about the death of the tourists, which I know was at the heart of the novel, but author enjoyed it just a little too much.
One of the first Hiaasen books I encountered, and still stands up.
If Carl Hiaasen shares some measure of the angst of Skip Wiley, writing these books is excellent therapy.
A laugh-out-loud roller coaster of a ride with some of the most outrageous and colorful characters to ever fill the pages of a book.
I'll write a full review when I have the time, but for now, here's...DAVE'S FINAL JUDGMENT -  THE DEFENSE  - Book is very funny and creative  - Lead villain is both fascinating and frightening, and his bizarre motives only make him that much more compelling - Biting social satire is executed perfectly - Hiaasen's unconventional story and writing style makes reading this one a unique experience THE PROSECUTION  - The protagonists are not nearly as interesting as the villains - The love story expl
- Book is very funny and creative  - Lead villain is both fascinating and frightening, and his bizarre motives only make him that much more compelling - Biting social satire is executed perfectly - Hiaasen's unconventional story and writing style makes reading this one a unique experience
- The protagonists are not nearly as interesting as the villains - The love story explored in the second half of the book feels forced and doesn't really deliver  - The book occasionally lags and could have been trimmed down 
Even with its occasional lags, with so many funny and bizarre moments, the good far outweighs the bad!
Underlying everything, his love for Southern Florida and his enduring interest in its natural world, in its history and in its colourful, exuberant inhabitants.When the body of a prominent local businessman is discovered crammed into a red leather luggage, covered with sunscreen, missing his legs and with a plastic toy alligator stuffed down his throat, the police are clueless as to motive and manner of death.
Skip is the 'gonzo' columnist at the local Miami newspaper who made a name for himself by his bitter attacks against tourists and property developers.
This enjoyable and somewhat bizarre book is un-put-downable and probably could easily be read in under two hours, but I read it a few pages at a time in order to prolong the suspense and the enjoyable story it offers.Set, as most of Hiassen's books are, in Florida this fast-paced thriller begins with the discovery of a number of murder victims.
Each of these apparently unconnected victims have been 'done in' in one of a number of bizarre ways.
I wonder whether one of the main characters in Tourist Season, Skip Wiley, is not at least a little bit autobiographical.
I've seen Carl Hiaasen's books all over and have been curious to read one; however, I didn't really click with his style of storytelling. The subject was fun and the writing pretty good; could've done with a little less cursing and use of non-PC language.
Some are obvious ("Thou shalt own at least one Jimmy Buffett album.") Others are learned from experience ("Thou shalt add thirty minutes of drive time to any location during Snow Bird season.") One of my favorites, though, I only learned about five years ago:"Carl Hiaasen understands our screwed up state, and thou shalt read his novels for insight."I was introduced to Carl's works via word of mouth when his named popped up due to a local book signing in my town.
After 3 books co-written with William D. Montalbano Hiaasen wrote 'Tourist Season' in 1986, effectively kickstarting what I regard as the golden decade of his. The humor was even more expressed (and if possible even darker) when he was on his own. The satire a bit more biting. The characters a bit more twisted. There are certainly things to ask for in his writing, but the fifth star is there for pure entertainment value. If you know what you're in for you this can't go wrong.
100 pages too long.Attempted aping of Elmore Leonard's style but enjoyable - the humor is a bit forced but it's a nice enough page-turner.I'm in the process of re-reading my Carl Hiaasen novels.This is the 2nd time I've read this book. Originally read it back in the 80s.Can't recommend this to anyone who's not an Elmore Leonard fan but I would be the last person to discourage anyone from reading Hiaasen.
Since most of the folks who appear in the author's novels are true-to-life oddballs and genuine psychopathic monsters I actually feel the books have some basis in reality.
People, good and bad, are fleshed out pretty much realistically, if exaggerated, mostly for comic effects and quick boilerplate identifications, but yet some of them are truly literary novel tragic.
There is a lack of focus sometimes to the plot, unusual for a genre or a beach read, and so many of the characters also appear to lack intellectual and emotional focus, which is on purpose, I think, because that's how people are in real life.
Nobody turns a phrase quite like him, and nobody comes up with as wonderfully cracked villians (and heroes) quite like him (altho lord knows a lot of authors try and some of em even come nice and close) This being his very first novel has a very nifty idea at its heart--one almost too good to spoil in a synopsis but the title kinda gives it away (Tourist Season--think about it) However as clever as the idea is, and as warped as the villian in this novel is---i kinda thought the whole thing gets away from Hiaasen in a way that the other books i've read by him over the years never do.
I know I enjoyed this book a lot more the last time I read it.
I was looking for something light so grabbed this.
I thought Icould count on Hiassen to bring his quirky characters in South Florida to life.
It turns out this was his first book and it's a lot grittier than his others.
Gruesome details of murders.
I'm glad he went lighter in his later books.
Another reason I was not happy with was that the story was about a band of terrorists, killing randomly to get attention.
A clear case of the wrong book at the wrong time.
Set in Miami, this satiric novel of eco-terrorism concerns a newspaper reporter turned private eye who is pitted against a former colleague turned leader of a terrorist cell.
Skip Wiley, the crazed ringleader, wants to return Florida to the Seminoles and everglades by driving tourists out through terror.It's lightweight, of course, but it’s certainly amusing, has colorful characters and, with its sharp satire of everything from tourism to race relations to the newsroom, makes high entertainment out of mayhem.
It becomes difficult not to feel sympathetic toward him at moments, and wonder if in some cases his extremes are warranted.
Hiaasen makes you feel for each of his characters in this one, the random victims and the confused ecoterrorists, on an everyman basis that Hiaasen has strayed from in some of his more recent novels as he pursues ever more absurd plot twists.
Of course, the fact that I read this one while as a tourist, lounging on a beach chair by the ocean while on vaca in Florida, makes for an interesting perspective too!
One of Carl Hiaasen's best!
After strange disappearences and an amputated man in a suitcase shows up, Brian Keyes, private investigator, is intrigued.
He and his cop buddy, Al Garcia, get on the case of Los Noches de Deciembre (The nights of December)who are environmental activists gone bad.
After a string of murders from the Los Noches de Deciembre, Brian Keyes discovers there will be a grand finale-- which includes a girl he's been crushing on.
Twists keep this book fluid and suspenseful, making it a great 5 star book.
Oddly, in the end i began to sympathise for the crazy and old bad guy...
I couldn't really get into this book. To me the tale was more silly than humorous. I don't know who copied who, but the same basic story was done better in a Randy Wayne White novel. There was also just too much unneeded violence. Recommended only to Hiassen fans.
Like the other book I read by him recently it takes place in southern Florida and is centered around the idea that a tropical paradise has been been invaded by land developers and tourists and some people are extremely angered by this.
They will go to extremes to make their point and in Hiaasen's world this leads to a very entertaining and humorous novel.
I particularly liked this passage: "On the bar was a framed color photograph of Reed Shivers with his arm around Bob Hope.
Shivers looked drunk and Bob Hope looked taxidermied." Typical of Hiaasen's humor.
My first Hiaasen, picked because it was his first. Admittedly, I expected more lunacy than poignancy. And yes, it is funny, but surprise!, tender too. Looks like the original plan was to lament destruction of Florida’s natural environment by satirizing the whole mess. And it went a good ways toward the plan, but the wounds being too sensitive, it simply cried out in the end, “Even crazy people have feelings.” The loonies–or are they?–bent on scaring people away from Florida in order to save it,
And it went a good ways toward the plan, but the wounds being too sensitive, it simply cried out in the end, “Even crazy people have feelings.”	The loonies–or are they?–bent on scaring people away from Florida in order to save it, are: Tommy Tigertail, a bingo-casino-wealthy Seminole; Jesus Bernal, anti-Castro bomb-maker; Viceroy Wilson, former star Dolphin running back who now sees the revolutionary light; and the leader, the best columnist on the Miami newspaper, Skip Wiley.
Agreeing Florida should be saved but opposing the group’s tactics is a private eye, Brian Keyes, a former columnist for the newspaper and a friend of Wiley.
Carl Hiassen has a unique writing style that is heavy on witty dialogue (and now that I think of it...
But that qualm is just something I noted along the way, and didn't really think about while reading most pages of the book.I decided upon Tourist Season because I had read Back to Blood recently, and after that I wanted to capitalize on my newly acquired knowledge of Miami and surrounding metropolitan area.
I looked the interview up, figured out it was Carl Hiassen, and picked this book out.
In a few parts of the book wondered if Tom Wolfe had not used Tourist Season as inspiration.
Absolutely amazing.
Once again, perfect illustration within the text.
It feels as if you are sitting along Brian Keyes as the story pans out.
Carls background in journalism had been the perfect prerequisite for this masterpiece.
Brian Keyes must have been some sort of a reflection of a romantic side of Carls self, and Skip Wiley the hotshot villain of the newsroom.
Sure to be overlooked by most, the few that find this, and Carls other books are sure to be more than satisfied by his wonderful work.
I enjoyed this book by a new to me author. I had trouble putting it down and I didn't see the ending coming as it did. I will be reading more of Carl's books.
I would give any book I've read by Hiaasen 4 stars if not more though this one was more like 3 and 3/4.
Still, this book had good laughs, lots of irony, pathos, tragedy, crime and mayhem which if you're a Hiaasen fan you know is his forte.
Hiaasen shares his knowledge of the workings of newspaper and fills the story with characters that are bigger than life but quite believable.
yes, that's it, her small chest, a cop who has maybe 3/4 of the case solved and it's a bevy of characters that no matter how improbable draw you into the story.
Tourist Season is my first Carl Hiaasen read and an unexpectedly compelling crime novel!
I have to say that I really love the realistic, original characters!
That being said, there are a lot of characters, and this was very confusing for about the first half of the novel.
Plot-wise, Tourist Season came across as a slow burn for me.
The "bad guy", his motivation, and the subsequent series of events in this novel all surprised me, therefore keeping me interested.
Overall Tourist Season was a good read, though not a favorite, and I plan on reading more from Hiaasen in the future!
An ex reporter and now private investigator is the primary person who is trying to uncover the radical group and stop the bloodshed.This was the first book written solely by Mr. Hiaasen in 1986.
Many of his books highlight southern Florida and the way people are destroying it.
Even though Mr. Hiaasen has written for young people in other books, this one is not for them -- grisly murders and some profanity are part of the story.I have read many of his books and really enjoyed them.
If you haven't read any of them, give one a try.
I don't think I clicked with Hiaasen's sense of humor.
I can see the potential in the story and the plotline was interesting.
I just didn't get along with the execution of the plot.
I can see how this book would appeal to fans; I just think it didn't match my reading style.
The reason I gave this book 3 stars instead of a lower rating was because the ending of the book was perfect.
It matched the personality of the characters and no other ending would have been appropriate.
I give Hiaasen full credit for fully committing to the plan.
More of a thriller than a mystery but even more a satire of 1980s Florida and the way PR and newspapers interact. My biggest problem with it wasn't the over-the-top characters but Brian Keyes' decision (view spoiler)[to not go to the police after he discovered that Skip Wilson was involved. His reasoning behind this decision felt forced and not once did he seem to consider that his own PI license could be revoked for this obstruction. He became in effect an accessory after the fact. (hide spoiler)]
A crazy environmentally-minded journalist starts murdering tourists to try to frighten people out of Florida and leave the wetlands to the bird and animal species. An amusing idea.
As someone who grew up in South Florida--and has been to numerous Orange Bowl parades as a kid--I've run across each & every character Hiaasen 'created' here & truly enjoyed this book. It's just laugh out loud funny!! (How many people do you know who'd use a crocodile as a murder weapon?!?) This book is escapism at it's best.
I think I've read enough of Carl Hiaasen's books (three in the last three weeks) for now. This one's a newspaper reporter-turned-private-detective story with his usual sad underlying theme of greed in modern Florida. A little darker, a little more serious, than most of his books but still a good read. I laughed out loud at some passages. He's cynical but couches his messages of creeping doom with really funny bits.
