https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13615.Death_Note_Vol_1
When one day a Shinigami (Japanese death god) drops his death note into the human realm, Light Yagami picks it up and holds in his hands the power to kill people just by writing their names and picturing their faces whilst doing so.
This story will really appeal to people who want something to think about and are sick of reading novels with the same old pattern.On top of all this, Death Note has possibly my favourite detective of all time.
Dies..It's a 'hard to pick a side' story..I mean, I would do just as Light did, try to get rid of those who make life hell...Killers, torturer, rapers, sadist and child abusers.Damn them all ,you know , specially in here in Egypt...The law is way slow and ,mostly, not that fair...at the same time...is that would be fair?Oh and I may go BIGGER but, not now, Let's back to the story..Light, a prodigy student, as an answer to his prayer to get off his Boredom, finds a Black Note...A Death Note, complete with its instructions.and as a Good person , he know how to use it as best as it gets -I feel I'm soooo agree , mostly, to his ideas, is that making me a bad person?
It doesn't seem like that should be enough to carry twelve graphic novels worth of story, but it absolutely does.
~ These books break a lot of my rules-of-thumb in terms of what makes a good story.
That's a definite "no" in terms of storytelling, and I'd think it would be a double "no" in a visual medium like this.
~ I think the series took a definite dip 2/3rds of the way through.
It felt to me like the story reached a natural ending point, then just kept on bulling ahead, ignoring it.
Death Note vol.
1 shows well drawn graphics, an anti-hero as main character that surprises/shocks, a *monster* that becomes actually…endearing, controversial themes that will provoke raw emotions along with deep thoughts and a writing and dialogs that make the characters look real and three dimensional without a doubt.I think the plot could have been more developed, though.
The Shinigami world better seen and much more exploited and maybe even contain a notable amount of interesting descriptions for the creatures inside it, because it lacked of it.
Badly.Nonetheless, one of the most original manga volumes I’ve had the chance to read in months!
Trah la la, I have me a manga that I'm in love with and I need the rest of them now and I might have to get them because I want them now and I pre-ordered the freaking funko of L because I'm in love with L and unfortunately I didn't like the Funko's of Ryuk or Light.
I was really hoping for Ryuk but he doesn't look cool at all, and I'm babbling!
Apparently whoever possesses the notebook can write in the names of people that they want to die and they can see Ryuk when no one else can.
Okay, it got so much shittier after Near showed up holding up a big sign shaped like an arrow that read "DEUS EX MACHINA" in sparkly gold lettering, but even then the art was still great, the protagonist/antagonist (which is Light?
So everybody always wants to know who everyone else loved and hated in this series.
[Death] Note: Read my last review to see who finally won my heart.SNARL!That's another absolutely brilliant thing about this series.
It's TRUE and you know it.I watched the anime first, then read the manga, if you're wondering.
I mean, once I started reading the book in the right direction.
And I only got mixed up like 859 while reading it...BUT HEY.
*hyperventilates*Least to say, I obviously am a fan.I loved the story!
Like the mixture of death gods and an overachieving super smart highschooler.
I mean, apart from the part where he was really stupid and has this "I wanna be god" complex.
I love the trope of criminals vs masterminds.But his name is Light????
I mean, Light is killing people in order to make a utopia.
I want to read more magna!
I finally borrowed "Death Note" from the library and I think I might be in love! <3 This is soo damn good!!!  I really didn't expect it to be so good! I don't know what I expected but damn it's definitely better than I thought it would be! And haha I'm having trouble to decide which side I'm on. I mean it's obvious Light is misguided and that his actions are wrong, this however still didn't stop me from liking him and Ryuk though. *lol* Also, I love L! Gosh they are like cat and mouse and it'
I finally borrowed "Death Note" from the library and I think I might be in love!
This is soo damn good!!!
I really didn't expect it to be so good!
I don't know what I expected but damn it's definitely better than I thought it would be!
I mean it's obvious Light is misguided and that his actions are wrong, this however still didn't stop me from liking him and Ryuk though.
Gosh they are like cat and mouse and it's nothing but amazing!
;-P This is exactly the kind of story I love!I hope I'll be able to borrow Vol.2 from the library soon!
Death Note is a Japanese comic that tells it's story over the course of twelve volumes (on display now at your local Borders).
Here's why.The story begins when Ryuk, a death god (known in the story's mythology as shinigami), drops a death note into the human world in order to alleviate the boredom that oppresses his everlasting life.
Not Stopping Until I Hit The Finale.My wife was hunting me down to read this manga and until I do that, she won't let me breath.Well, well! I'm glad that she has tremendously fantastic choices in everything. And so she proved it in this case too.A thrilling ride Death Note is!If you haven't still encountered with it yet, I urge that you should!
yayyy for buddy reads and amazing manga
My first toe dip into the world of Manga, this was enjoyable and packed full of surprises and colourful characters.
That's the situation Light finds himself in when he comes across the Deathnote.
Soon he finds himself persued by the police, and the mysterious 'L', as he tries to complete his dream of creating a utopia free of violence by killing the worlds criminals.
Which comes as a surprise, because from the start I though he was going to be the protagonist.
He's funny, often feigning melancholy at his life before coming to earth, and appearing interested yet also completely nonplussed at what Light is doing.
Aclaro que es mi primera experiencia con manga. Desde hace mucho tiempo quería probar y cuando Death Note fue elegido en un grupo de lectura ni lo dudé, ya que había escuchado buenísimos comentarios de esta historia. Y la verdad, concuerdo, la historia es muy original y bien elaborada… peeero, no es mi tipo de lectura, definitivamente soy más de descripciones escritas que gráficas. No creo que lo continúe.
Come on,it doesn't get more original than this.I've already watched "Death Note" so the story is not
This is more of my opinion on the whole series instead of the first volume.Death note is a highly addictive read.
I would say it’s the best manga I’ve ever read.
It’s one of those stories which leaves you desperate for the ending, but at the same time upset because it all ended.
Everything in Death note was planned out perfectly and it was very fast-paced so I was never fed up.However, I do have a problem with the protagonist.
He suddenly just turns evil after gaining the notebook.
I wanted to see him regret his actions slightly at first before turning fully evil.Besides that, it’s fantastic!
I recently watched the trailer for the american film from Netflix and as a person who respects herself and appreciates quality and authenticity I decided to read the manga.
Dear Americans stop ruining epic things.
God I've missed Light and L and I was smiling like a fool.
DEATH NOTE IS EVERYTHING.
You have the antihero Light, whom you love to hate and vice versa and the badass L.
Everyone knows the plot so it's stupid just to even try saying something that hasn't been said before.So yeah, i obviously loved it and enjoyed it to the fullest.
First review: My first manga!
Going to read more)) Final review : 3.83☆ So, great manga ended...
I loved ending, though so many people despised it.
But his predecessors Near and Mello did great too ))  (hide spoiler)]Now lets write what I liked and disliked in this manga series));1.
I liked the concept and the fine line between good and evil...
I liked the way it shows how power can make the good evil..
and all you see are people the world would be better off without.” “This world is rotten.
My first graphic novel and manga experience was definitely a good one and I might already be hooked!I didn't know how I would get on with the format but I found myself just as immersed in the story, after a few pages, as I would an ordinary novel.
It also managed to transgress into so many genres that I find it hard that there would be a reader who would not like this!The story follows high school super brain, Light, after he acquires a magical notebook that has fallen to earth.
Light manages to become the perfect anti-villain and his wit, super smart tactics and willingness to do good with his new evil power aligned me to his immoral cause.
Until the day, after whole two years dive of this ignorance, I finally got to read the manga that totally blowed my mind, that got me hooked since the first lines.
The truth was before me, the facts were before me.I tried to talk about it with some of my friends, they won't listen and won't read this manga.
You get what I'm talking about.There is so much awesomeness in the world that it leaves me wondering what just happened before me!If you've never tried to find out what and why about this book, like to have a mind shaking effect, then this book is for you.
I think this set up a whole lot of interesting things that can happen throughout the series. It took me a little while to wrap my brain around how many people he was killing, but I think I'm really starting to get into it now!
Update 14.01.18 I’ve got to remove my rating from here. I wasn’t a fan of this manga but I’ve come to realize that I might just not be a fan of manga as a genre, period. HOWEVER, having just finished the entirety of death note in the form of an anime, I’d like to come to my knees and admit that I was WRONG. like, seriously. I’m so shook. This was just. weird. Also, no offense, but the graphics were quite ugly. Should I even bother with the next volume? Does it get any better? Idk, man.
COOL, COOL, SO COOL!!!!
This series has read like a supernatural Sherlock told from Moriarity's POV.
This is mind fucking, but still.I, I just love Death Note.
So, so much.I must be cray cray, but I love Light Yagami more than L, even though I know L is correct and there should be justice.
(Gosh, I am crazy.) But I believe that Light was a good guy and if he haven't gotten that Death Note in the first place, he would have been the most kick-ass Detective ever.
:'(I loved the anime.
xDP.s, am I the only one who just freaking loves the opening song of the anime?http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9wjOC...I can listen to this the whole day and still not get tired of it.
Wow! This manga is very cool!Great opening volume for a series. The pace is snappy and the tone is dark. Great fun!
He was highly impressed by the books and urged me ( nay, compelled me) to attempt it again.
The slightly rough and gritty feel, the faint smell of raw paper and ink, the physical pleasure of turning through pages.Thoroughly loving the story of a highly intelligent 17 year old, named Light Yagami, who happens upon the Death Note and via it, acquaintances himself with Ryuk, one of the numerous shinigamis ( Japanese death gods).Don't know when I finished reading it.
SO assuming that I finished this book, am rating it 4 plus.
And If I am correct, I have finished Volume 2 also.
Death Note was my first manga, and I enjoyed it rather more than I thought I would.
Although the premise sounds quite macabre, this isn't a book about "killing people," as would seem from the description.
The pleasure in reading Death Note comes from watching the battle of wits between two brilliant minds, Light and L, as each tries to find out the identity of the other.
The book also raises interesting philosophical questions, such as, is it wrong to kill criminals who have committed horrible crimes and probably will again, given the chance?
Definitely 4.5 stars. This is my first manga and I'm hooked!! So interesting and intriguing with lots of information that just feeds your curiosity that little bit more but not too much to indulge you. Ryuk is a fantastic character although I think there's more to him than he's letting on and Light is clever and cunning although I feel it's going to be his downfall. Can't wait to pick up number 2.
Můj první manga komiks. Asi jsem se zamilovala! Je to geniální.
Moja prva Manga :)
