https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590349.The_Book_of_Jhereg
I can't wait to get started on the second omnibus.I have a thing about reading series in order, and it was with a lot of reluctance and much hand-wringing that I read this series out of chronological order.
I had gotten almost the whole series in these omnibus editions that "organized" the books in publication order (i.e. definitely not chronological order), and figuring out where to start or jump in took up too much time.
So I just started with the first book of the first omnibus (Jhereg) and soon found that the order is not that big a deal for this series, as many people have told me before.
I'm starting to suspect that the internal chronology doesn't make sense and Brust is trying to disguise the fact.And the fact that the books all have similar made-up-animal titles does not help me keep them straight.***Having finished my reread on Jhereg, I want to reiterate that the question of order is a fairly important one with this series.
Vlad mentions in passing of Morrolan that "he has been known to sacrifice entire villages to her [the Demon Goddess]."Maybe we're not supposed to care.
Brust includes a lot of detail—a multi-layered, complex social structure, a couple of systems of magic/sorcery, a fairly large cast of characters, plus a few new biological creatures to assimilate (specifically Vlad’s jhereg familiar, a flying lizard).
The flying lizard-like jhereg had great potential that never really got explored—he was more like a living, smart-cracking weapon than like a true partner to Vlad.I will happily read more books in this series in months to come.
When the friend who recommended this to me explained that it was based on an extended tabletop roleplaying campaign the author participated in, suddenly everything that pissed me off about this book made perfect sense.
Yay. Running alongside Vlad on life-threatening missions was fun, and I'm certain it's going to continue to be fun through the next two in this volume....UPDATE: Okay, here are my thoughts on the first book I've read in the Vlad Taltos series.
I will wrap this up with my hypothesis that Brust has strictly personal reasons for giving Vlad Taltos a moustache.
Stay tuned.UPDATE:  After having read  Yendi:One thing I have to admire, I can not predict the twists that these books' plots take.
I'm not much good at predicting plot twists anyway, but in the case of the Vlad Taltos books I doubt it's just me.
This contains the first three books in the Vlad Taltos series which chronicles the adventures of a young assassin for hire in one of the most original fantasy worlds I've ever encountered.
I used to read them when I was a kid and then spend the afternoon pretending to be an assassin with my own flourishing assassinary business.
Now I read them and wish I was a kid so I could play it some more."'He wants to meet with you.
Now, how do you go about killing an assassin?
You set up a meeting with him, just like the Demon is doing.''Right.
Vladimir Taltos is a bit warped, but you might be too, if you grew up as the son of a self-hating human in Dragaera.
For humans, it is mostly a world of drudgery and second or maybe even third-class citizenship.
(The members of the House of Teckla, the serf-caste among the Dragaerans, might edge out most humans for second-class citizenship status.) Vlad has managed to come up in the world, though.
And he's done it the only way a human can: through the purchase of a baronetcy in the House of Jhereg.He's also become an assassin.
¿Quiere saber más de estos tres libros, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Which, again in keeping with in medias res, I didn't really realize was a prequel until the characters starting referring to each other in ways that made me quite sure they didn't know each other all that well yet.So this one was much cooler, for me anyway, in terms of really bringing out the different levels of society within Brust's world.
I really appreciated some of the ways that Brust comments on the ideas of value for others and the power plays of society, but I wasn't so much a fan of how drawn out he made the fighting between Taltos and Cawti.
The premise of this book is entertaining sure, but it has been done before.
Just read the Gentleman Bastards (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...) or Prince of Thorns (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9...) instead.Same principle, better stories, fleshed out characters.
When I was reading this book I constantly heard the following in my head "I'm a cool murderer, with cool weapons, in a cool organization and cool allies.
Only finished this book because I bought it.
The main character has a cool (of course) familiar called Loiosh, a little dragonlike creature that can talk through thoughts.
The reaction of the main character is almost always the same.
Although I am not sure I think reading the books in published order is necessarily the best way (losing track of who knows whom is a little frustrating), it isn't too bad here, and Jhereg starts off the series quite nicely.
I honestly was hoping to finish the book quickly, not because I was so into it, but because the plot line here annoyed me to no end, and I did not like the (as I saw it) overly one-dimensional black/white dualism philosophy that seemed to invade the characters.
Here's hoping I don't come to the same conclusion with this series.
I went from liking and respecting her as a strong, almost frightening character in her own right to being very irritated with the sudden and abrupt change in her personality.Overall, however, the stories contained herein stay true to the anti-hero mindset and give us a glimpse in the life of your average assassin who is just trying to make a place for himself and stay alive long enough to enjoy it.There have been some reader comments (complaints) about how the story jumps about.
Lots of fun - even though the hero is the local sub-Boss of what passes for the Mob (and an assassin!) I really wanted him to win.
Great stuffYendi done.Surprisingly, Yendi happens before Jhereg, but they still stand alone so it makes no matter.
But still, a good light hearted romp which I enjoyed.Teckla done.The latest setting of the three books, it's also the one I liked the least.
This one has a much different tone - considering the theme, it's understandable.Overall: I enjoyed it.
Jhereg was by far my fave and I really like Vlad as a protagonist (he's so full of contridictions and sarcasm, he rocks!).
9/10These 3 novels (Jhereg, Yendi, and Teckla), repackaged as one book, are in the order the author wrote them, but not in the order than Vlad lived them. For a linear thinker like me, that's a challenge. And I can feel the weight of all there is yet to learn about Dragaera.Vlad is a wonderful storyteller and I enjoy his sardonic tone. There is more complexity to these stories than one may think.Jhereg and Teckla were both excellent, Yendi less so but still wonderful because of how Vlad and Cawti met and their "courtship".
Full Review
The three novels vary a bit in style which enhances the enjoyment, though the tone of the third book Teckla squirted sideways and almost ruined the trilogy.
Books 1 and 2 breezed through cheeky plots narrated by the protagonist, if an assassin reaches the level of working class hero.
The author realized the colorful characters and world needed a long term story arc.
Taking the world more seriously meant using book three as a foundation plot with multiple characters fleshed out for further development.I look forward to the fourth book building on the third with tone and cheekiness of first and second.
They do it all, gambling, hookers, assassination (which is how Taltos began his career).Yendi begins with a turf war that turns out to be a cover for deeper political games within the Empire.
Through his work Taltos has made friends with some of the upper echelon in at least on Dragon House which is where the events lead us all to.Oh yeah, he marries one of the assassins sent to kill him.The final third is Teckla, and here is where Brust interjects some of his personal political beliefs and life into affairs.
I liked Teckla as much as the others by itself, and maybe rereadings will convince me the three belong together.(view spoiler)[I loved Cawti, as the happy spouse and the new love and the person with a working sense of ethics (guess whose side I'm on in Teckla).
I did like the order of things - I'm not sure the courtship between Vlad and Cawti would have worked if I hadn't already seen them as a successful couple.
It's pretty clear from how he writes of Vlad's rapier style that Brust has spent some time with his hand on the pommel of a sword.
His moral struggle with being an assassin was something I didn't expect, and Brust handled it with great insight and skill.
social justice definitely show Brust's Trotskyist leanings, and yet he's not heavy-handed in his treatment of the politics in the story.
You can tell that Jhereg was the first novel published in the series, because Brust's application of humour becomes more and more skillful with each book.I will definitely continue reading this series, and indeed, all this man's work.
Vlad Taltos is a low-level mob boss who also occasionally free-lances as an assassin.
He's also surrounded by a host of other sarcastic characters, including a cat-sized dragon-like familiar named Loiosh.
I didn't mind this, as I figure that publication order is usually the best way to go about reading series.
The first two novels were action-driven tales of capers, but Teckla was more introspective and focused on Vlad's inner struggles.
I'm not surprised that I liked that one best.Overall I enjoyed the novels and will read more, but I think I'm a little Vlad-Taltosed out for now.
This omnibus edition comprises the first three novels of the Dragaeran series by Steven Brust.
All three stories center around the character of Vlad Taltos, a human assassin.
As a result, many of the characters in the story are already well-known to the protagonist.The first novel, Jhereg, follows Taltos as he attempts to carry out an "impossible" assassination contract.
It is very engaging.In the second novel, Yendi, Taltos again uncovers and resolves a plot that has drawn him into a war with another Jhereg.
Also in this novel, he meets his wife Cawti when she assassinates him.
"THere are many ways for a young man with quick wits and a quick sword to advance in the world.
The second was his constant companion, a young jhereg, its leathery wings and poisonous teeth always at Vlad's command, its alien mind psionically linked with his."a fast easy page-turner, my only regret was that the three books making up this volume were arranged in publication order not chronologically.
psionic beasties with a sarcastic sense of humour!
a protagonist who uses his head rather that mindless butchery!) and the plot moved along at a cracking pace - but containing a mostly-fleshed out world.
Vlad Taltos is an interesting protagonist--he gets nauseous every time he teleports, he lacks confidence, he surprises himself by his abilities.
I like how in each novel he comes up with a convoluted plan and keeps the reader--and other characters--in suspense about it.
He also gets himself killed several times.
My only critique of this book is that reading it felt like eating candy.
Do I read the next volume or go back to the classics like Vanity Fair?
I won't be a better person for reading more of Steven Brust's books but I will certainly enjoy them.
Both times I've had a baby, I've picked a new fantasy series to read during the post-delivery, up at all hours of the night stage.
My main criteria is that the series be a wholly-realized fantasy world, quick to read, funny, smart and engaging.
Not as light as Discworld - Vlad is a mostly unapologetic assassin after all - the dark humor and well-drawn characters made the late night speed by this year.
It also passes my test of would I want to hang out with these characters (I know, they are just novels, but when has any reader of fantasy not imagined themselves in the story?)
The first two novellas were ok.
Fantasy assassin with intrigue story line.
Not really fleshed out, leaving some strangely large gaps in the story telling, but amusing.The last novella, Teckla, destroyed the entire book.
It was some bizarre political commentary.
Not a problem in of itself, but I couldn't figure out what he was commenting on.
Is it about communism?
For a book about an assassin, it was strangely devoid of anything remotely interesting.
After realizing I was dreading reading it, I gave up in the last 20 pages.
There has to be a special kind of awful to give up when the end's in sight.
"Awfully" enjoyable:D It's hard not to fall in love with the main character Vlad Taltos (assassin by profession), in spite of all his flaws and rather twisted point of view on life as a whole.
It's pretty impressive to keep track of the messes he manages to get into and the witty ways he uses to handle them (with questionable results sometimes).
His occasional falterings, however, simply add more credibility to his character and gain readers' sympathy somehow (I don't know how exactly:)))).
Another big advantage of the book is, undoubtedly, the picturesque world with milennial history, devised by the author, and its motley inhabitants.
I was a little disappointed by this omnibus, which was my introduction the Taltos books. I'm not sure why Jhereg was printed first since it presumes prior knowledge of things that don't get elaborated on. Plus, I was a little annoyed that such a powerful, immortal race needed a lowly human to figure stuff out for them. Yendi was better and was a decent story. Teckla was stupid. (view spoiler)[Vlad and his wife give up their marriage because they won't talk to each other? (hide spoiler)] Lame. Not to mention, lazy writing.
It's actually 4.5 starsI can't remember how I came across this book suggestion, but I'm most happy I decided to order this book. Fast paced with a lot of hilarious quotes (especially if you play RPGs, many scenes in the book remind me of gaming situations), but also thought-provoking and examining parts of the life of a fantasy book protegonist that are often not taken into consideration. I loved Loiosh and Aliera, and will definitely keep on reading Mr Brust's books to find out more about them
Omnibus:1) Jhereg: 4 stars (20th September 2015)2) Yendi: 4 stars (24th November 2015)3) Teckla: 4 stars (20th December 2015)
Review of Book One: Jhereg.Disclaimer: I am not a man for spoilers, but if certain things MUST be said and by MUST, I do not mean Snape kills Dumbledore MUST, I mean a brief overview of what is going on in a world created by the author that completely and utterly immerses it's readers.This series possesses one such a world.
3+5+5+5+5 = 23/5 = 4.6 Rounded to 5!*PERSONAL RANT TIME:Alright, this book, well this omnibus volume which apparently is the first three adventures of the legendary character known as Vlad Taltos hit me pretty hard.
