https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16556.The_Infinite_Plan
De momento, mi segunda novela favorita de Allende, después de La casa de los espíritus.La reseña está subida ya a mi canal: http://youtu.be/td9YIsXLuOI
Bueno, como casi todos los libros de Allende.
Καιρό μετά κι αφού το διάβασα, νομίζω πως αυτό που έλειπε από αυτό το βιβλίο ήταν ψυχή, ήταν σαν να μην ήταν ο εαυτός της η συγγραφέας.
Έχω λατρέψει ήρωες-καθικάκια, που μπροστά τους ο Ρηβς είναι άγιος, αλλά νομίζω ότι στο να μην τον συμπαθήσω, συνέβαλε πιο πολύ η μονόπλευρη μάτια της Αλιέντε και η υποβόσκουσα επιείκεια της προς αυτόν, πάρα τα ίδια τα σφάλματα του ήρωα.
Ο λόγος της είναι σαν ζωντανός οργανισμός που τρέχει τρέχει και δεν τον σταματά τίποτα, έχει πανίσχυρη ροή και τελικά πάντα κρατά τα βιβλία της σε ένα επίπεδο.
Gregory Reeves a son of a traveling preacher who settles in the Hispanic section of Los Angeles ,grows up experiencing life as a member of a minority group within the community.
Local gang members make his life a nightmare,always attacking him being the only (white) boy in the district.
It is a life saga with many characters - and if you read the book, keep track of them because they all surface again at some point.
The book spans 40 years and the many twists and turns of one man's life, with asides into the lives of his close acquaintances who meander into and out of one another's lives at the most unexpected times.
In her own life Allende had also married her second husband about 2 years before this book came out.
Incidentally, her daughter was a psychiatrist and a psychiatrist in the second half of the book does a miraculous job of intervening in Gregory Reeves' life.
Me gustó mucho, sin embargo creo que habían algunas historias de relleno que poco aportaron a la idea medular del libro.
ليست اولي قرائاتي لايزابيل الليندي ولكنها أقواها وأعظمها علي الإطلاق.
أستعجب من عدم انتشار هذه الروايه البديعه وسط أعمال الليندي المشهوره، فهي تستحق الخمس نجوم عن جداره لما لمسته من غوص حر في أعماق النفوس البشريه المختلفه.
هي تحكي عن المهاجرين اللاتينين الي الولايات المتحده في النصف الأول من القرن العشرين ورحلات حياتهم ونجاحهم واخفاقاتهم علي مدار أكثر من نصف قرن.
الشخصيات بديعه في رسمها ووصف مشاعرها وطموحاتها وأفكارها وصراعاتها النفسيه، الترجمه رائعه لرفعت عطفه عن دار ورد، الحوارات قليله وتعتمد أكثر علي المشاهد الوصفيه والمونولوجات الشخصيه في لغه رائعه وتحليل يتميز بالدقه والعمق ويحتاج لقراءه متأنيه ..
أكيد سأعود لقراءه ثانيه لهذا العمل الرائع ان شاء الله.
Esta es la historia biográfica del esposo de Allende, un joven americano que debe vivir entre hispanos en California.Especialmente interesante cuando vivía con los padres, seres con costumbres extrañas.
Até à data, as experiências com Isabel Allende foram bastante positivas, tanto com A Casa dos Espíritos como com Zorro, portanto parti para esta leitura com boas expectativas, apesar de a sinopse não me despertar, só por si, grande interesse.Gregory Reeves, o protagonista deste livro, é filho de um australiano que se mudou para os Estados Unidos na primeira metade do século XX e que, inicialmente, viveu uma vida de nómada com a sua família enquanto dava asas aos seus dotes de pregador, divulgando O Plano Infinito, que advogava que nada acontecia por acaso.
ليس لأنها روائيتي المفضلة...ولا لأنني من معجبيها...بل لأنها استثنائية في كل ما تكتب...مهما تفاوتت درجة استمتاعي برواياتهاالرحلة برفقة الليندي تتخذ طابعا مميزا...فأستعد لها بكل حواسي...لأن الكثير من روحها يتدفق عبر حروف رواياتها...وتفرض عليك أجواءها...وتجعلك بكامل إرادتك تنقاد لأحداثها...بل وتنثر فيها شيئا من حياتها.الخطة النهائية...خطة غريغوري التي اقتنع بضرورتها...فروت لنا الليندي حياته وحياة المهاجرين المكسيكيين أمثاله إلى أمريكا...ورصدت تفاصيل كثيرة خلال ستة عقود من حياتهم...وعرضت للكثير من المشاعر الغريبة والمتداخلة التي عايشها غريغوري وهو يواجه تلك التحديات...وضمنتها قصة حياة زوجها الروائي ويليم غوردونوأنهتها بــ:"ما تبقى تعرفينه، لأننا عشناه معا.
في الليلة التي تعارفنا فيها طلبتِ مني أن أحكي لك حياتي.
Χλιαρό, αδιάφορο ανάγνωσμα. Οι χαρακτήρες θολοί σαν μουτζούρες. Η ιστορία νερουλή και σε σημεία σαχλή. Ο μόνος λόγος που το διάβασα είναι ότι μου αρέσει να διαβάζω για ανθρώπους διαφορετικούς από τους σημερινούς, αλλά και πάλι, δεν είμαι σίγουρη ότι δεν πήρα μία ωραιοποιημένη εκδοχή της βεβιασμένης φαντασίας της Αλλιέντε. Το δεύτερο αστεράκι γιατί υπήρξαν και καλούτσικα σημεία.
As I read, I was aware of what was going to happen a good three pages before it did, it felt anticlimactic.I did enjoy the fact that Gregory and Carmen's stories were developed independent of each other while still tied to each other.
The author took the time to mention here and there that Greg gave her money or provided some flimsy explanation of how she was able to have these amazing adventures, but I feel it was either her own privileged background or her usual fantasy writing style that crept into a story where it didn't quite feel like it fit.
I think this is my first one-star review. I really disliked this book, largely because it failed in one of the most basic foundations of storytelling: the "show, don't tell" rule. Much of this book's narrative is devoted to summarizing who went where and what happened. Rarely are we in the moment, living through the events with the protagonist, hearing his real-time point of view. For me, this made it a bore to read.
Primera novela que leo de Allende, le tenía ganas pero ya tengo dudas de si seguir con más libros de ella, no he llegado a encajar bien su manera de narrar.
Me irritaba saber que de repente empezaba a narrarse en primera persona cuando ya llevaba un montón de páginas leyendo en tercera, la primera vez que sucedió me chocó mucho.En sí el libro es una crítica a la sociedad, al abandono, a la pobreza, al machismo...
a muchos temas que a larga el final fue muy apresurado.
Después de venir contando con detalle cada vida de cada personaje que aparecía, las últimas páginas fueron como un relámpago y no lo disfruté.Más bien la nota viene siendo un 2,5.
In addition to the two formal narrators, a variety of narrative presences also inform the text.The importance of the complex narrative structure goes beyond its mere existence: the novel, despite its male protagonist, supports a feminist agenda.
Thus, critics have taken serious steps in looking at women as contributors to the field of literature, both in their subject matter and in their style and language.Word choice, descriptions, paragraphs, dialogue, content and even narrative pattern do not have to follow a structured notion of logic and organization.Instead, women's writing is something different, something that exists in the very nature of being female.
Não é um livro de leitura fácil ou acessível, demoramos a entrar no ritmo e na história e que, nas primeiras páginas, não atrai por ai além.
Vai, aos poucos, melhorando, acabando por se tornar num livro muito bom e que transmite várias lições.Neste livro o narrador confunde-se, muitas vezes, com Gregory, a personagem principal.
Creio que essa circunstância – que a mim me atraiu, pela diferença – a outros afaste por se tornar um pouco confuso.Gregory mostra-nos, ao longo dos seus 40 anos de existência, como foi a sua procura do amor, da amizade, de si próprio, com erros e superações, um desafio constante para quem, como ele próprio, sofre de ataques de pânico e ansiedade (descritos de forma magistral e que – se mais razões não existissem – tornam o livro ainda melhor).Se tiverem oportunidade, leiam.
Isabel Allende has been high on my list of writers to check out.
The film adaptation of her novel House of Spirits knocked me out, so I thought it was reasonable to expect great writing from her in general.
Silly me.
The Infinite Plan has neither great writing nor a great story concept; in fact, I'd be hard-pressed to summarize a storyline at all.
I mean, beyond the fact that it took me two months to finish reading this book, have I adequately expressed how not-great it is?
I liked this very much on a section by section level, but the book as a whole left me a little cold.
It felt lost and wandering sometimes.
Then the ending just felt tacked on, like we just had the story of a life and someone trying to fix everything in the last small number of pages.
I liked the characters and the story and the development along the way, but once it started to build to more I didn't like where the author tried to go with it.
Non ci riesce fuggendo nell'illusione delle droghe o dell'amore di donne evidentemente sbagliate per lui o della guerra, perchè non si può fuggire da noi stessi.E così lo vediamo diventare un uomo dalle mille paranoie.
Non a caso Carmen e Timothy non lo abbandonano mai nel corso della vita, perchè sono pochi di quei fortunati che hanno avuto la possibilità di andare oltre la patina di eccessi per vederne l'anima.
Pages and pages of sweeping narrative at the end that went by quickly, but, for my taste, seemed rushed through.If you like Allende, this is worth a read, though.
It reminds me of Forrest Gump in a way, this sweeping, magnificent epic of America from the 1940s through the 1980s, with these characters' lives so impacted by life in the L.A. barrio, WWII, the Vietnam War, the political and cultural upheavals of the 1960s, and the greed of the 1980s.Good read, just not House of Spirits.
At least, not as I remember House of Spirits.
But I did that with this book.
When I read that this was based on Allende's husband's life, I got deeply interested in what he had experienced growing up.
Imagine challenging a bully to a duel to see if you could both jump across the tracks in front of a speeding train.
He makes it, the bully is smashed to smithereens.
Based in San Francisco, this book covers several minority groups and their struggle to survive in America.
As her husband read the final draft he wept with relief that his story had been told.
The last 10 pages made the entire book.
I actually cried a little bit, not going to lie.
It just hit a little to close to home.
Besides the ending, the book was extremely tough to get through.
(Although I'm really glad I did.) The writing was great at some points, and extremely lackluster at others.
And that was what made the story so great.
Also the way the two different points of view came together at the end was pretty damn good.
So yeah I'm giving it four stars, but it's more for the idea behind the book, not the execution.
قدرة الروائية على شحذ كل هذا الكم الهائل من الشخصيات في عالم فريد ومتنوع جدا. نظرة الكاتبة الانسانية والمتفردة جعلت من عملها الدرامي مرتعا للحالمين والآملين في التغير نحو الأحسن دائما
بين الرحلات الزمنية والمكانية, وبين التنقل والثبات, وبين التغيير والاستيطان, تخط ايرابيل الليندي روايتها "الخطة اللانهائية" في سردية تعودنا عليها في كتاباتها دوما.تتصف الرواية بطابعا سرديا لجيلين من عائلة ريفز الأمريكية وما يحيط بهذه العائلة من شبكات تواصل اجتماعية عبر رحيلهم المتكرر إلى ثباتهم واستيطانهم في الولاية الأمريكية كاليفورنيا فيما بعد الحرب العالمية الثانية.ففي بداية توصف بالواقعية وفي ذلك تغير بطرق سردية ايزابيل الليندي لأدبها والذي اتصف بالواقعية السحرية كما في "بيت الأرواح".
رواية أكثر من رائعة، ما بدأ بقصة نجاح انتهى بوحدة قاتلة أدت إلى اكتشاف الذات.
الرواية تبحث في رغبة الإنسان الأبدية للاندماج في الوسط الذي يعيش فيه (أياً كان)، والمحاولة المضنية للعثور على القبول عند الآخرين.صفحات:نورا “..
وشخصية ذلك الرجل من القوة بحيث أنها راحت تُمحى من العالم، وتتحول إلى ظل لتمنحه فضاءً.”خوان خوسيه ” ليس هناك أخطر من تشعر بأنك متفوق”.غريغوري ريفز ” من المحال أن تمر في الحياة دون أن تكون مدينا لأحد ما بشيء”.جد بل بينديكت..
يمضي الإنسان القسم الأول من حياته في جمع الأشياء، و القسم الثاني في محاولة التخلص منها.”
Numerous lesser characters, such as Olga, a family friend who serves as a local curandera, and Carmen/Tamar, an early girlfriend and almost-sister, provide opportunities for numerous plot developments and expansions.
There is an odd narrator's switch that moves from third to first person and this won't make much sense until the very end of the book; even then it may not make so much of an impact.
The characters are unique individuals and they are what propelled me through the novel.
I couldn't stop reading to find out more about each and the twists and turns of their personal journeys amazed me.
This book was recommended to me via a friend back in September 2008 by a wonderful and beautiful Dominican women in New York who stated Isabel Allende's books were fascinating and well written.
Since then I have read at least 5 of Allende's books and have also found them in Spanish to give to people as presents.
I actually own three copies of this book, and lend out to people sparingly.
I have always heard that Isabel Allende is a wonderful author and this book certainly proves her ability to create characters that come to life and are believable.
The Infinite Plan follows the story of a boy named Gregory Reeves who grows up in the Southwest of the US in the 50s.
His father is a somewhat crazy but faithful man who preaches about the Infinite Plan that everyone is a part of.
Gregory grows up in a Chicano village and becomes close friend with Carmen Morales, the daughter of close family friends.
Een boek van Isabel Allende dat zich niet afspeelt in Zuid-, maar wel in Noord-Amerika.
Dat is ook een beetje hetgeen mij soms wat stoorde in het boek.
Bij veel passages had ik een "déjà-vu" gevoel, personages die ik precies al kende, levensverhalen die ik precies al gehoord had.
Ik weet niet zeker of het ook effectief zo is dat personages van dit boek ook in andere boeken voorkomen.
(?)Misschien is het gewoon even tijd om iets anders dan "Allende" te gaan lezen, te veel van 1 auteur te snel na elkaar is vermoedelijk niet ideaal.
I had read Allende's book, Zorro, which I liked very much.
It was very disappointing - excruciating detail and way too many characters.
It was difficult to feel engaged with any but the main 2 characters because of the quantity of people and their stories.
And there were some characters who made a 2-page appearance and were never heard from again.
It was also a depressing story; I got the sense that some of the misery was just thrown in to make the trials and tribulations of the main characters more trying.
Not a book I'd recommend except to diehard Allende fans.
