https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297134.The_Things_We_Do_for_Love
This is the second book of Kristin Hannah's I've read and I absolutely loved it.
It was the most beautiful touching story that I've read in a long time.
This author has a unique insight into the human soul and she is able to gently guide her characters into a full and rich life in a way that is believable and heartfelt.
It's a story of human compassion and kindness and it tells the story of a family who truly love each other.
This is a beautiful love story, but it is not a romance.
I don't know what part of this book hurt the most, the death of her child, her divorce, her fathers death, the teenager's broken life, the teen pregnancy, or everything else. This book tore my heart out and ripped it into tiny pieces. Then, slowly, Kristin Hannah put it back together. There was no typical happy ending, but it was just the ending I needed to read! A definite keeper. a book to be thought about often and remembered fondly.
It's one dimensional, flat writing, the kind that might be interesting in a writer's workshop but with characters who are not developed in any way, for a novel.
Hannah is a terrible writer; her plot is boring; the characters don't feel real in any way (has she ever had a family that she might draw from?), and there is a use of overdone language, like, calling the parents, "Mama" and "Papa," without real introduction.
This is the kind of book you buy at the airport, and then find yourself bored by it and the plane ride.
I loved,loved,loved this book.
It is a story of a couple who has tried for years to have a child and when they finally have one she doesn't live very long.
Lauren gets pregnant and her Mother leaves and Angie steps in to help.
It is a story of loss and family and life lessons.
The ending was sad and happy and I sat and bawled like a baby when I was done.Kristin Hannah has always wrote books that bring out all kinds of feelings to make you laugh and cry.
I loved how Hannah captures the emotion of Angie, who is not able to conceive.
Her mother is an alcoholic and acts more like a child that Lauren has to care for.
Lauren is smart, pretty, and works hard to pay the bills and get a scholarship for high school, as well as college.
Lauren and Angie end up meeting and Angie employs her to work at the family restaurant.
Lauren finally feels like she is part of a family.
Angie becomes a real mother to her.
Lauren decides to give Angie her baby.
I had no expectations for this book.
I simply picked it up at the grocery store, becuase I had nothing else to read and it sort of looked promising.
I've tried to read Kristin Hannah before, so that should have been my clue not to try.
The synopsis on the back sounded good, but it's pretty much the whole book.
I don't like Hannah's style of writing.
I find it very simple and lifeless, just like her characters.
There were no surprises with this book.
My advice is to simply read the back of the book and consider yourself finished with it.
Light reading, good characters.
Creo que es el segundo libro o tercero que leo de la autora. Y me ha encantado!!La historia, la familia, los lugares, todo encajaba. Y es el segundo libro que me ha enganchado después de esta maldita crisis lectora.
This was a good book, although I did not like the rushed ending. I am going to read every book by Hannah.
Enjoyed this very much! The small town, the Italian restaurant, redefining family! Beautiful!
Five stars! Good lord this book had me racing back and forth with emotions! Crying, and smiling! I just couldn't help makin silly faces at every sentence I read. I loved the characters. Angie gives me hope that there are still people out there willing to help others. And on top of that, she got what she wanted. A family and to be happy. I loved it!
Even though this one was completely predictable and a little overwrought, Hannah's characters still breathe (they sigh too much though).
Heartfelt Emotions Kristin Hannah has the amazing ability to write real life stories. I've never felt that the emotions or situations weren't spot on when reading one of her stories. Ms Hannah knows what loss and heartache feels like and is skilled at describing them. If you like the writings of Jodi Picoult, you will enjoy this book.
Pretty typical Kristin Hannah, I enjoyed it well enough, even though it was quite contrived & not realistic by any means, but I thought the ending was a letdown, left me with an overall bad taste in my mouth.
And also the things that tears people in half - love and forgiveness.
Kristin Hannah will tell you through the story about life, "'He loved to sit here and watch the ocean,' Mama said, leaning against her.
A broken heart heals.
Like a every wound, there's a scar, a memory, but it fades." (P305)"Some things in life, though, couldn't be gone in search of.
It can also be our hard times." (P198)"'Love bangs up a bit in this life, Lauren.
It's a whole lot like standing on a beach watching the perfect sun set ever with the people you love the most.
The Things We Do For Love is an emotional journey into one woman's life-stifling heartache of needing to experience motherhood; of wanting and needing a child to love.
Where Angie has known a life of boisterous family gatherings, laughter and love, Lauren has not.
She has an alcoholic mother who cannot care for her, much less begin to love her.
As her nature, Angie takes Lauren under her wings and begin a journey that will forever change both their lives.
As she mothers Lauren and as Lauren seeks her love, Angie is also faced with second chances.
Unbelievable...because, remember, Angie accepted that her life would not include a baby...but also because many pages were written claiming that Angie had come to love young Lauren, vulnerable and wounded by her own mother.This book had a "formula" feel, but it also suffered from poor editing.
In the moonlight, it looked like something out of a Roald Dahl novel, one of those a poor-pathetic-child-lives-here kind of places."I am still looking for the story that honestly portrays life fulfillment that does not include a baby.
I picked up this book by mistake.
I didn’t catch onto my mistake until about a third of the way thru the book.
My tastes in books range from adventure and fun to witty and fantasy-like because when choosing to read a book, it is like a mini vacation from my life.
Normally on vacations, I don’t really like to visit sad, gut- wrenching life lessons, but I had already invested some of my time reading this story and it had already captured my attention so I continued on.
No, Wonderfully written and full of emotion, just not my type of book.
A love story of families: between mother and daughter; between sisters; between a man and a woman; a boy and a girl; a girl and her brand new baby and a woman and the child she always wanted.
It's a love story on all these levels with a few twists and turns that we are accustomed to with Ms. Hannah's prose.
A great Italian family that comes together to help Angela through her divorce as she helps a down-on-her-luck teenager, Lauren, who comes to live with her and becomes her surrogate daughter and, in turn, helps Angela as much as Angela helps Lauren.
I enjoyed the soul-searching that Angie, the main character, experienced.If you are going to read this book, don't read the next paragraph until you finish the book, it talks about the ending!Because of my own personal feelings on the subject of adoption, I was let down by the ending.
Hannah set it up so that it really couldn't have gone any other way but it was heart-breaking all the same.
I can't imaginge how difficult it would be to give up a baby that you love but at the same time, she loved her boyfriend enough to let him go.
I don't understand the bad reviews of this book.
Yes, the story lines were cliche - a teenage pregnancy and a woman who would do anything for a child she can't have herself.
But I thought the way the character's lives weaved together was beautiful.
I cared deeply for all of the characters, and though the ending was predictable, it worked.
I think it works because, despite the cliches, Hannah draws the reader in and makes the characters mean something.
I read it so easily seeing myself in either position - and I have never tried to have children.
I have another book by Kristin Hannah that I look forward to reading.
It reads like the movie, My Big Fat Greek Wedding. Except the family is Italian, not Greek. Easy, quick read perfect for a beach weekend or long flight. Touching characters and great (albeit predictable) plot. 3.5 stars (I rounded up).
Kristin Hannah is one of my new favorite authors. This book was a great read! She is very good at weaving a tragedy into a happier package.
I try not to give out 5 star reviews too often.
But this was a masterpiece that had me crying and cheering.
What an amazing author Kristin Hannah is.
Wow!A little town west of Seattle (on the ocean) has a fun, quirky little community.
And an Italian, family run, restaurant that can change people's lives.
We get Angela, who divorces her husband, and longs for a baby...
she ends up back home and passionate about saving the family restaurant from financial failure.We also get Lauren, a neglected teen with a horrible white trash bar bunny mother, who longs for a real family and career.
This novel has such compelling characters that were very endearing and interesting.
The plot developed nicely; I enjoyed the story so much in the beginning and it kept me completely interested in it.
However, it felt semi predictable after that or slightly less compelling.
And I couldn’t stand the fact that the teen bf was so selfish and self centered in his poor little rich boy scenario.
Typical?
I also wanted more from David’s mom and had hoped for something mysterious or just forthcoming from her.
I know she had a hidden story.
Overall I’d rate this novel Probably 3.5 🌟
als je een boek uitleest op 2 dagen tijd en je daardoor je slaap laat, dan weet je dat je een toppertje aan het lezen bent. Leuke verhaallijn, leuk geschreven, knap werk!Het boek heeft zeker geen makkelijk thema, je kan niet rond het verdriet, de pijn, mensen loslaten, maar het bellicht ook de mooie kanten, hoop, vooruitkijken, ... Het 2de boek dat ik van deze schrijfster lees, en hoewel ik het vorige goed vond, is dit nog een pak beter.
Life and Love are filled with ups and downs. For Angie and Conlan they have had some huge ups and some very low downs. Angie and Lauren meet each other at just the right time. Their road is a rough one and they come to find something that they both need in their lives. A book about healing some deep wounds and finding love and family.
A fast-pacing story about two women bonding over the same thing and helping each other. Admittedly and surprisingly heart-warming and gripping. And even though the story is predictable and unoriginal, the ending was wonderfully touching and honestly I couldn't stop reading. I've had to know how it ends. Well done Kristin Hannah!
Never a disappointment. I was definitely not expecting this ending. Angie is one woman that I can say stands up for what she believes in. Kristin Hannah has done it yet again, she had my attention from the first page to the last page. A bittersweet wonderful story. It's a must read
This is my third Kristin Hannah book and every time I think this won't make me emotional like the last one and every time I cry through the last chapter. I won't be able to read another one of her books for a while but when I do I know I'll laugh and cry my way through it and then give it 5 stars.
