https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8523.Forfeit
It's not the most respectable paper in town, but it pays better than its more prestigious counterparts and Tyrone badly needs the money.
Before long, powerful forces are warning him to drop the story, "or else." Tyrone believes that he is impervious to the sorts of threats that doomed his friend, Chekov, but when the villains discover that Tyrone may have a weak spot after all, all bets may be off.This is a fairly typical Dick Francis story that should appeal to anyone who has enjoyed his other books.
James Tyrone is the usual stand-up Francis protagonist, and the bad guys are dependably powerful and villainous.
'A superb chiller and killer' New York Times Book Review My first introduction to Dick Francis and his thrillers set in the world of horse racing.
Tyrone was likeable and sympathetic particularly in his efforts to care for his stricken wife and in the sacrifices he had made through the years since she contracted polio.
I enjoyed the book for the aspects of community shown in the horse racing environment, with nearly everyone knowing everyone else.
I’ll read more of Francis and his horse racing thrillers in the future.4 from 5I acquired my copy after swapping a book on the Readitswap it website.http://col2910.blogspot.co.uk/2013/04...
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
As always, rereading is as enlightening as reading."Forfeit" is one of Francis's slighter works in many ways, but it gets added depth by the interactions between Ty (the hero) and his wife Elizabeth, who has been paralyzed by polio.
Having spent the past several years quite ill (although not, thank God, completely paralyzed like Elizabeth--yet, at least), I was struck on the reread how well Francis captured both characters' emotional struggles.
This is the second Francis novel I've read, and it showed that my enjoyment of Reflex was no fluke.
I have no real affinity for horses, in any capacity (though I do occasionally exclaim "And I want a pony," but that's beside the point), and I was only occasionally left out by this.As with many British mystery/suspense novels of the time (published in 1969), the plot here centers on extortion and blackmail.
In fact, the prose and pacing read so thoroughly modern that the occasional mention of rotary phones or apartheid were jarring.I must mention that this is not an action novel.
This is how the book shows its age, as most modern suspense novels rely much more on visceral thrills.
I wish Francis had written more books featuring James Tyrone.
Even though the setting is in the horse racing world, Francis finds a way to make each of the books fresh and exciting.
As this seems a very cryptic warning the MC merely tries to get him back to his office without him falling down drunk or being hit by a vehicle.The MC is not far along on his way back when the friend falls to his death.
A goodish little thriller ruined by Richard Brown's dreadful, mechanical reading.
A cut-glass British accent is all very well, but when every sentence, whether it be narration, threats, words of love or desperation has the same inflection and lack of emotion, it quickly palls.
I mention the bad reader as a warning to others.
I see that Mr Brown has videos on Youtube demonstrating "how to read aloud." If this sample of his technique is characteristic, I'd give them a miss, along with any other recordings he may have made.As far as the story goes, it's entertaining.
However, one doesn't read Francis for factual encounters with reality.
Or considering all the car chases and crashes maybe The Rockford Files.
The scenes revolving around the publication of Blaze and James Tyler's interactions with his co-workers were awfully dull and made me feel as if I were trapped like an invalid attached to a breathing machine.Speaking of which, I thought everything having to do with Elizabeth and her predicament and how she unwittingly becomes involved in the crime story was riveting.
I was much more involved in Ty and Elizabeth's relationship through it's various stresses than what was going on with the horses.
The seventh Dick Francis novel, this one has, perhaps, less to do with horses directly than the others, despite the crooked gambling scheme that is the basis for the plot. Like the first six Francis books, it starts out quietly enough, then gradually builds to the point of almost unbearable intensity.
What a pleasure to read a suspense mystery and guns don’t play a part or role!
I always enjoy Dick Francis good story good plot.
As a snapshot of what life was like in the 60s it was a fascinating read, really enjoyed all the little details. Some of the attitudes were shockingly out of date when looked at with a 21stC perspective. The crime/mystery aspect weren't as interesting but it was still a good read. I like his style of writing too, quite staccato.
Of course, it also gets his paper a hell of a story.What little I know about American horseracing was of no use here, as the British system of betting is different and there are also different kinds of races there (pretty exciting ones too, it would seem).
The horse trainer, the young woman groom, the jockey, the racing steward, the horse breeder and his family -- each has a story, and we hear it, without detracting at all from the fast-moving plot.So if, like me, you thought you wouldn't be interested in a book about horseracing, think again and read a Dick Francis book.
Good storyline overall, but it dragged a bit in execution.
This, makes the protagonist, to dig deep, following the usual fight between good and bad, and the Good coming out on top against all odds.Now, for me, the problem with this book was that I did not have any idea whatsoever, about ante-post betting or non-starter, they were completely new words to me.
After half the book had gone by, I finally got a grip of the connection between the races, the horses, their owners, the bets and the villain and the hero.
Any person, who has the twin interest of horse racing and reading thrillers, will find this book engrossing and highly interesting.
He had been press ganged into the payroll of a South African tycoon bookmaker who had brought a Birmingham chain of bookmaker shops and was rigging the news by the journalist and threatening families to withdraw a horse at the last minute thus collecting non refundable bets on high favour odds.James Tyrone now covers Bert Checkova articles.
The South Africian then finds Tyrone's home and threatens to pull the plug on his wife's life support.
The South Africian tycoon and murderous chauffeur end up drowning in their hired Rolls as Tyrone in the last encounter fights to escape by grabbing the chauffeur around the head and eyes thus cannot see to drive and goes into the cannal.
Those discussions come disguised in adventure novels so gripping that they cry out to be read in one gulp -- then quickly reread to savor the details skipped in the first gallop though the pages." Houston Chronicle Page 13Every window in the house was a clutter of diamond-shaped leaded lights which might have had some point when glass could only be made in six-inch squares and had to be joined together to get anywhere.
The modern imitation obscured the light and the view and was bound to infuriate window cleaners.Page 23Gail was the fourth girl in eleven years.
Of all the ridiculous injustices.
Crap, I just wrote this longer than usual review and then I didn't save it!!!!James Tyron newspaper reporter uncovers a blackmail ring where horses that are favored get scratched just before the race.
This part of the book was all good and 4 stars the part that I didn't like was the relationship of James Tyron with his bed-bound, polio stricken wife.
She contracted polio three years into the marriage and he seems to be a stand up guy staying with her for the next 10 years or so, but every few years he finds a lover on the side.
I really didn't like the ending where the whole marriage/affair gets semi-settled, for that 2 1/2 stars
This installment in the Dick Francis series has more soap opera than many of his stories, focusing as it does on a hero who is married to a woman paralyzed by polio.
This nearly intolerable situation forms the core of our hero's life, and is an essential element of the plot -- which I won't give away here.When I read this book for the first time years ago, it actually impressed a very important principle on me which I still believe in to this day.
As one character says in the book, don't ever sell your soul....
A reporter stumbles upon the story he wasn't expecting while doing a fluff piece for a magazine.
This is one of my favorite Dick Francis books though that wasn't always the case.
I see that shifting now that I'm older, because I'm able to see now the full depth of this story and really appreciate not only how the story unfolds, but the hard decisions that the characters make in the story.
While definitely dated, if you read the book in the context of the time it's written, you'll find the story itself still holds up.
I remember reading this book when I was young, and went searching for it many years later to see if it was as good as I remember.
Holy cow, talk about a plot--keeping the time it was written in mind, 1968--I'd have to call this book groundbreaking on a number of levels and, as for suspense, it cannot be beat.
I can't talk about the plot as it would spoil, but I hope if you're only going to read one Dick Francis book it will be this one.
This is perhaps the best of his dozens of amazing books.

I liked this one, though I think it's not one of Francis' best.
I felt sorry for her, but I also kind of hated her.
She redeemed herself in the end, of course, but I couldn't help being more concerned with Ty's happiness than hers.
The villain was also not quite as much of a looming evil presence as he could have been.
The final showdown was almost staid in comparison to some of Francis' other novels.Still, he's one of my favorite mystery novelists, and I will happily spend a couple hours reading anything he wrote.
Ty is a writer whose wife is living at home, paralyzed by polio, with a newer version of pump that works like an iron lung.
He of course is interested in horse racing.
I realized as I read about the medical and betting practices that this was an older book.
However, you feel for this man and his home predicament.
His wife becomes ill when they've only been married three years.
It is now 11 years later.
As he uncovers evidence about the horse-racing crime and is in increasing danger, the suspense is very real!
An excellent book.
I was looking for some quick light reading and this Dick Francis that a friend lent me fit the bill. As usual with Francis, the plot was compelling, there was a likeable hero and some sufficiently evil thugs. James Tyrone is a reporter with the Sunday Blaze who covers the horseracing scene. A fellow reporter dies after making mysterious comments to Tyrone about "not selling your soul". Investigating some "non-starters", Tyrone soon runs into a money-making scam and blackmail. I felt sympathetic towards Tyrone regarding his marriage but had mixed feelings about the resolution of this part of the plot.
This one is not as in depth as some by Dick Francis but I still like it.
What a silly sentence.
Of course I like it.
It's Dick Francis!
This one felt more dated that some because the hero's wife suffers from severe polio with life threatening consequences.
Most people under 50 in the developed world today have no real life acquaintance with polio.
In addition to solving a case of horse race fixing, this story deals with what happens in a marriage where love is still there but all chance of any physical relationship is gone.
Strength comes in many forms.
When James Tyrone, a newspaper reporter, finds out that there are horrible crimes being committed on horses and people and noone is willing or able to try to stop it, he takes the attitude of "someone needs to stop this, and if noone else will, then why not me?" Tyrone is not an un-flawed character himself, but he risks his life and those he cares about the most to stop the downright evil men committing the crimes. This is another excellent thriller/suspense story from Dick Francis that I highly recommend.
A crime novel featuring a sports journalist who becomes embroiled in a battle with horse-racing thugs. After reading the author's Come to Grief and this book, I'm starting to get the idea that he always writes about horse racing. While I enjoyed this one, it was not nearly as good as the later Come to Grief. This novel was on my reading list because it received the Edgar Award for Best Novel in 1970.
FORFEIT - VG+Francis, Dick - 7th bookBert Checkov was a Fleet Street racing correspondent with a talent for tipping non-starters. But the advice he gave to James Tyrone a few minutes before he fell to his death, was of a completely different nature. James investigates, and soon finds his own life, and that of his wife, at risk.Very good suspense. Journalist with wife in an iron lung. Well done.
