https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274746.The_Travels_of_Jaimie_McPheeters
Dr. Sardius McPheeters, is a dreamer always chasing the elusive beautiful rainbow, but never quite fully grasping it in his hands, the gambler and imbiber of strong drinks, is a capable physician in Louisville, Kentucky, his family suffers though, but his creditors want their money...The time, during California's gold rush, the '49ers from all over the world are descending to the new territory, acquired by the recent war with Mexico, saying goodbye to practical wife Melissa, who very reluctantly gives permission, still the cholera epidemic here, encourages her to let him go, daughters Hannah, Mary stay and taking along their thirteen year old son Jaimie.
And the third book is Salt Lake City, the journey to the gold fields and the subsequent years in San Francisco and ultimate locations for all the principals.And are there numerous CHARACTERS in this complex, brutal, jarring, and continent heaving novel!
Jaimie's father, Dr. McPheeters is one of the most finely drawn men that I've read in quite a few years.
Beyond that, the years and histories of those Latter Day Saints' groups meanderings from Illinois onward.
This book took me thrice the time of a more norm novel for this length.
But this west and this journey feels very real, extremely human, and fateful compelling in karma.
Jamie and his ner-do-well father grew on me and by the end I found myself unexpectedly touched when I had thought I would just be amused and diverted.
What is so clever is that Jamie and his father are both (at least at the start) unreliable narrators so the reader is left to wonder in bemusement how much of the tall-tale telling reflects reality.
The list of sources shows that Taylor did a tremendous amount of research, with many story lines and descriptions drawn from the diaries of actual pioneers.
This Pulitzer Prize-winning novel of RLT, follows Jaimie and his (Dr) father who has creditors after him, he is a bit of a gambler and prone to drink.
The wagon-train was lead by a guide book that led them through, sometimes they would get lucky and it was right on, other times though there were setbacks, that seem to be lying in wait behind the next corner.
Jaimie is a mischievous scamp, full of misadventures and is the storyteller along with his father's letters to Jaime's mother.
From the time he falls off the river boat, to a couple that want to use him for hard labor, to his run in with thieves and murderers.
His characters are simply the embodiment of his allegory, and the tale, as told through Jaimie's eyes, demonstrates that the boy's worldview, for a time at least, is just as fanciful as his eccentric father's.
The arc through which Jaimie's worldview transits during the course of the story represents well the one we all travel, one way or another, during our evolution from innocence to...
Not everyone loses their innocence.His story is about dreamers - specifically, those dreamers who followed their inchoate, heroic hopes into the West during the first half of the nineteenth century.
I picked up this book because its title was the same as a televison show from my childhood.
What a good book.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1956 and it's still a quality read today.
If you like Mark Twain or Larry McMurtry sagas, this is a book for you.
A writing teacher who wants to give her students examples of how a character reveals himself would be smart to look at this book.
Because of this book, I am going back and looking for other prize winners that never made it to the required reading lists.
Sardius has run afoul of his creditors and decides it's best to strike out with Jaimie to the California Gold fields to make their fortune and the adventure is on.
The story is told both in the first person view of Jaimie and by Sardius via letters home to his wife.
There are so many laugh out loud moments in this book one can't describe them all, but I have to say the time when Sardius tried to teach Jaimie the "dead" language of Latin was tops with me.
An unexpectedly captivating story told masterfully. Enjoyed every page. Strongly recommend (it's available on Kindle too).
Unique for this sort of tale is the humor.Jaimie McPheeters is the son of a reluctant medical doctor from Louisville, Kentucky; a man who would rather gamble and dream of great adventures.
The story is told from Jaimie's 14 year old point of view interspersed with his father's bombastic letters back to his wife.
But he has no illusions about his father and as he matures he finds it ever more difficult to maintain his belief in the man.When they finally reach the gold fields they experience the disillusionment you know is coming and go through even harder times.
This book was compared to Lonesome Dove and I blame my disappointment on this statement. While this novel does involve a long journey, all similarities end there. The style, although funny at first, grew repetitive and boring quickly. The characters were mostly cardboard flat, undergoing little to no development. Events mostly rely on unlikely coincidences and cartoon-like situations where every weak-looking man ends up being the strongest in a fight, and the like. Very disappointing, sarcastic writing notwithstanding.
It immediately reminded me of a more humorous version of Lonesome Dove, which also won the Pulitzer and was also on a topic I didn’t think I cared about.The story was that of a father and son who left their comfortable lives in Louisville to strike it rich in the gold rush of 1849.
There was one kind-of exception where he eventually grudgingly admitted that this one particular girl wasn’t as bad as “those Indians,” but that hardly felt like a learning moment.The book won the Pulitzer in 1958, which many will accept as an excuse for the racism.
Great book!
A great book for a young boy around 11 and up.
The book is from the ignorant point of view of a 13 -14 year old boy.
It dragged a little bit when they spent the winter with the Mormons in Salt Lake City.
And it dragged a little bit when the father and son spent time in San Francisco.
I would love to see this developed into a film.
I know it was a developed into a TV movie but I have a feeling (I never saw the TV production) that it was probably poorly written, cast, and produced.
The Travels of Jaimie McPheeters is a novel written by Robert Lewis Taylor that won the Pulitzer Prize in 1959 for fiction.The book is primarily about 13 year old Jaimie and his father as they journey from Louisville to the gold fields near Sacramento.
This level of research is pretty obvious in contrast to a Zane Grey novel where the detail of the stories are often lacking.This book was written during the height of America's obsession with the Wild West.
So in summary, you can envision this book as an equal mix of Mark Twain, Zane Grey, and James Michener.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1959. It is about a young boy and his father traveling West to California from Louisville in the mid 1800's to search for gold. It reminds me of a Huck Finn adventure. The many struggles chronicled along the way by the boy and his father are entertaining. The book was a bit long, but had a happy ending. I give this book 4 stars.
The novel begins this way: "On the day when I first learned of my father's journey, I had come back with two companions from a satisfactory afternoon in the weeds near Kay's Bell Foundry, shooting a slingshot at the new bells, which were lying out in the year and strung up on rafters." Jaimie narrates the story, and the journey is as much his as his father's.
This rambling odyssey of a story covers a year in the life of Jaimie and his father, who leave Louisville to escape debt and find fortune in California.
It's the story of Jaimie McPheeters a 13 years old Louisville resident lumbered with a Father, Sardius, who dreams of opportunity and riches.
Sardius is a wonderful character, a drinker and dreamer who can only keep himself on the straight and narrow when he is on a quest for said opportunity.
Indeed the journey is what keeps him going rather than the end.When Sardius is hounded by creditors he talks his wife in to letting him take Jaimie and head to California in search of gold.Along the way they form a tight group of friends and have adventures of varying interest.
The Travels of Jaimie McPheeters by Robert Lewis TaylorThis Pulitzer Prize winner is perfect - when 
Containing elements that reminded me of Larry McMurtry as well as Mark Twain and Charles Dickens, this novel chronicles the journey of 13 year old Jaimie McPheeters and his father from Kentucky to California in 1849.
The only novel I can remember reading that has a bibliography, it was obviously well researched and is a convincing narrative, but I often felt the story got bogged down with too many facts.
Having said all that, I was convinced by much of the other language, particularly that used by Jaimie's father Dr. McPheeters.
It took me awhile to get into this one, but I slowly came to love all the characters involved in this big old-time road trip.
Young Jaimie gets roped into setting out for the California gold mines with his dad, Dr. Sardius McPheeters, from Louisville, Kentucky.
His father is a hopeless, hapless dreamer, naive and too trusting of others, which gets them into trouble time and time again, much to Jaimie's frustration.
Jaimie is inherently more street smart than his father but manages to get into some fixes of his own.
McMurtry's tale is also an "on-the-trail"story, although in that instance north-south, rather than east-west, and is also populated by memorable characters.The heart of this book, however, is Jaimie's growth from 12 to 17, as he realizes his father, Dr. McPheeters, although learned and inspirational in some ways, has never himself grown up, and is unlikely to do so.
Jaimie's is adelightful voice, and the incorporation of Dr. McPheeters'letters and journal entries help flesh out their journey.For my taste,in some areas the book could have moved faster, but overall, I found it a very enjoyable read.
It was a Western, but not a traditional one.
The title of the show was The Travels of Jaimie McPheeters.
Little did I know the idea for the show came from a novel, and a Pulitzer winner at that!Jaimie goes with his father, Dr. Sardius McPheeters, heading west lured by the dreams of striking it rich in the gold fields of California.
It is a hearty tale filled with larger than life characters and unbelievable adventures with last moment saves from utter destruction -- the fare of any western.
Great adventure tale, plus it's a slice of Americana ...
tells the story from the point of view of a boy (Jaimie) who travels West with his father to seek fortune in the Gold Rush.
The writing is imaginative with a wonderful storytelling rhythm.
THE TRAVELS OF JAMIE MAC PHEETERS - this book has been compared to "Lonesome Dove".
While the story was interesting, it rambled and stumbled at times to where I had to put it down.
It is about a very ambitious doctor who has wild dreams or fantasies about setting out to California with his son Jamie, to cash in on the Gold Rush".
The book takes us on wild adventures with Jamie and his Dad which are Interesting but never quite held my interest.
Maybe Lonesome Dove has set the bar so high for me that nothing has come close to it so far.
Jamie's father, a doctor had a problem with the cards and the drink and was an extraordinary dreamer and optimist.
Jamie about 13 yrs old , in the 1st half of the book got himself into and out of an inordinate amount of troubles including being captured by the Indians and being held hostage by a gang of outlaws.
The book was interesting but a bit long .
I found myself wanting to just skim over some chapters.
Maybe I just read too many other books re the gold rush and wagon trains going west, but can give this award winning book 3 stars only.
I read this book as part of my Pulitzer Project. It is the story of a father and son traveling west during the Gold Rush.Well written page turner in the vein of Lonesome Dove or The Way West. At turns humorous and folksy, even juvenile, and then violent and disturbing. Not my favorite genre, but hard to put down just the same.I was quite impressed by the extensive bibliography. This book was very throughly researched and much of it is based on testimonials. That aspect, I think, makes it particularly worthwhile.
Starting out with a considerable debt to Mark Twain, it proceeds to entertain very well, and remains in debt to Twain.
I think it is forgotten these days but it won the Pultizer Prize in 1959.
Not surprisingly, in that era of TV westerns this one is much like a long CBS series (Kurt Russell actually did star in a short-lived TV version).
Naw, don't read it, it's out of date and doesn't illuminate history perfectly, or provide much of an insight into American thinking in the 1850s or 1950s, but if you want some entertainment and you like westerns, it's well done.
It was really interesting to read about this time period from the perspective of historical fiction. It had a lot of humour and also a lot of hard facts. That was a hard time to live. Scary things happened with those indians! I think that the author did a great job giving the feel of both good and bad that happened. I found myself missing those characters after I was done reading and wanting to go through more stories with them.
I was disappointed. A Pulitzer winner should have been better. Try reading, The Big Sky or The Way West by A. B. Guthrie and this book will pale considerably. Taylor's style reminds me somewhat of Mark Twain, which, for me, is good (Tom Sawyer) and bad (Life on the Mississippi). Half way through I wanted to just put it down and walk away, but didn't.Should have.
I really enjoyed this book. When the book first turned violent I was shocked. When I picked it up, I thought the book was going to be this fun little jaunt across the west with lots of saucy jokes and crazy mishaps. Every time something brutal happened it was jarring, but I think in the end those scenes are part of what makes the book great.
We trekked out west and I was awed by the beautiful landscape of mountains and canyons. Jamie Mcpheeters accompanies his father on a trip along the Oregon Trail in search for gold. The wagon train encounters many adventures and you get a feeling for how the west was then, wide open and beautiful and dangerous. Thoroughly enjoyed the trek west.
