https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36578942-the-hundred-year-old-man-who-climbed-out-of-the-window-and-disappeared
And the title was so promising...Dumb.
Oh so dumb.
A man who doesn't like politics meets every important political leader over 5 decades...ha ha!
Religion and politics are dumb.
I suppose this title will be the darling of book groups comprised of older ladies (centenarians?) but it's a horrid mashup of Big Fish and Forrest Gump.
Are we supposed to root for a man who can't even be bothered to care that he spends a large portion of his 100 years behind bars?
He then sets out on a journey where he steals a suitcase which turns out to contain a fortune that was paid over to a group of bikers by a Russian organized crime syndicate as payment for a drug deal.
I wouldn’t say I was finding myself exploding into fits of hysterical laughter as I read the book.
However, I found myself smiling as I turned the pages and couldn’t help but chuckle at some of the situations that Allan and his group of friends found themselves in.
***see update below***Rating: 1.5* of five The Publisher Says: The international publishing sensation--over two million copies sold A reluctant centenarian much like Forrest Gump (if Gump were an explosives expert with a fondness for vodka) decides it's not too late to start over...After a long and eventful life, Allan Karlsson ends up in a nursing home, believing it to be his last stop.
It will undoubtedly be one of the major films coming out of Scandinavia at the end of this year.”
First it was funny, then it was tedious, then it was just annoying.
The name dropping, the fact that one person could have such an influence on world politics.
Very farcical.
I think what bugged me the most was when they convinced the police officer to join them.
Everything was just too smooth, too convenient.
I struggled to finish it and I cannot understand what all the hype is about.
Essentially this is a yarn.
A really, really long yarn.
A yarn that you could use to knit scarves for a whole classroom.
This was fairly enjoyable and funny, but a little out there for my taste. While I understand that a lot of the crazy and unrealistic things that happen were for comedic effect, I tired of it eventually. If you are looking for a witty, funny, light-hearted tale, maybe give it a try!
I loved this book!
I have a soft spot for old men so maybe that helped!I totally adored this old man!
Such a sweetie and lead a very interesting life being involved in key points in history.
(although I did find one or two of these historic chapters dragged on a bit)Went straight into the story and the story was brillant.Had so many unexpected events and moments in this book.
Was brillant and kept me hooked the entire way through it.
If in all honestly I did prefer the original story compared to the lengthy historic parts but they were very much enjoyed too.
Loved it!
If I could have read this book at school instead of dull text books 'O'level history would have been brought to life. I enjoyed the way historical figures and events were tied in with Allan's remarkable life story, I enjoyed the characters, the daftness of it all and of course what's not to love about an elephant.
"I bear a charmed life." -William Shakespeare.Oh, what a FUN read this was!A real delight.My wife was the first to devour it on a recent holiday, and while doing so she chortled, chuckled and cackled with such gusto that I imagined someone had let a hyena and a kookaburra loose in our hotel room!"Oh, you must read this, Kevin! You must read it!" She urged.(And so I did).Allan Karlsson absconds from an old people's home on the eve of his hundredth birthday.He's on the run from the authorities, i
He's previously led a mercurial existence and this last hurrah is the cherry to crown a life of hurrahs.Crazily ludicrous and delightfully hilarious, we watch this man's Quixotic quest unfold at a snail's pace, though he is the tortoise to his trackers' hare.'Bolt & Bucket' might sound like a great name for a hardware store, but these are in fact the idiot henchmen who have a part to play in the story.In his youth, Karlsson had already used up each one of his nine lives, even at one stage daring to suggest to Stalin that he might look better with his moustache shaved off!I too chortled, chuckled and cackled while reading this lively novel, and if this doesn't tickle your funny bone, then I don't know what will!The only thing that I don't like about this book is that it takes the best part of the day to type the title!
Totally bizar book :) A Forust gump kind of feeling. I've never read any kind of book like this one.The author made me wonder many times what to expect next and often I had a smile on my face.A bizar great fun kind of book.
And I say that, not negatively, because truly, how much can you expect from an 100-year-old man who climbs out of a window?Well, Allan Karlsson is not your typical 100-year-old man, and this book will prove it to you.
I read some of the reviews before I started it, and many people compared the book to the movie Forrest Gump.
(Maybe I haven't seen Forrest Gump enough times).I enjoyed reading this book because it's very cleverly funny, and with so many historical figures thrown in you'll lose track of how Allan came into contact with them.
The Hundred-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out of the Window and Disappeared, Jonas Jonassonتاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانزدهم آگوست سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: مرد صد ساله ای که از پنجره فرار کرد و ناپدید شد؛ نویسنده: یوناس یوناسون؛ مترجم: فرزانه طاهری؛ تهران، نیلوفر، چاپ سوم 1393، در 372 ص؛ شابک: 9789644485978؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان سوئدی - سده 21 مدر سال 1392 با عنوان: پیرمرد صد ساله ای که از پنجره بیرون پرید و ناپدید شد انتشارات به نگار؛داستان زندگی پیرمرد قهرمان داستان از ورای تاریخ سده ی بیستم میلاد
در حقیقت نویسنده کتاب هر بار به بهانه‌ ای قهرمان داستان را در یک رشته رخدادهای تصادفی درگیر می‌کند، تا او با تعدادی از مهم‌ترین شخصیت‌های سیاسی سدهٔ بیستم دمخور شود: استالین، فرانکو، ترومن، چرچیل، مائو، کیم ایل سونگ و …، از این طریق و با مرور خاطرات پیرمرد، خوانشگر به صورت طنز در بطن حوادثی مثل ساخت بمب اتم، جنگ‌های داخلی اسپانیا، و انقلاب چین، قرار می‌گیرد.
نویسنده در این اثر از: رخدادهای تاریخی، اندیشه، فلسفه، کتاب مقدس، تا مظاهر روزمره ی زندگی را، به بازی طنز می‌گیرد، و دنیایی می‌سازد که به گفته ی خودش به نحوی هوشمندانه، ابلهانه است.
یکی از جالب ترین کتابهایی هست که این اواخر خوندم ..روایت موازی از زندگی حال و گذشته یه پیرمرد همراه با ذکر جزئیات تاریخی .. کتاب طنز قابل قبولی داره و روایتی نویسنده خیلی روون و جذاب هست .. ولیکن بنظر میرسه حجم کتاب میتونست قدری ازین کمتر باشه .. و البته اواخر داستان به اندازه شروع جالب نیست .. و اخرین نکته هم اینکه فکر میکنم بخش تاریخی کتاب از بخش دوم قشنگ تر باشه ..درکل کتاب جالبی بود ..

یک کتاب بینظیر با ترجمه ای فوق العاده عالی  اصلا به نظرم در این کتاب ، مترجم یعنی خانم فرزانه طاهری با واژه های قشنگی که به کار بردن و جمله های زیبایی که نوشتنمعجزه کردن. خوندنش رو به همه توصیه می کنم :)
A charming, sweet and often hilarious black comedy.
Enter the world of Allan Karlsson - the 100 year old explosives expert who, during his rather extraordinary century, has met some of the most influential of world leaders, stolen from a ferocious gang member whilst he was in the toilet, developed an affinity with Sonja (who doesn't often take to people - she's quite a discerning elephant) and is a very loyal and protective cat owner.Not one for sitting quietly when it's time to do something, Allan decides to leave his old folks home on the day of his 100th birthday.
The reason is simple: a one star rating, by my mind, is for a book I deem incomparably stupid and written by an imbecile who can't put a couple of words together to form an at least decent story.
I know, after reading it, that it was probably meant to be absurd and that in general fiction is supposed to touch on situations that might not be real, but Jonasson went out of his way to make this one really test your patience!
The adventures are very difficult to digest but fun.Allan had a particular skill – he was a very competent explosive expert, and intentionally or unintentionally people around him were often blown up.
Though somewhat laid back and not devious, Allan knew when to change sides when it suited him.Allan’s present adventure was fun, but I enjoyed the adventures of his past life more.Some people have called this novel a “dark comic” but the story had a bit too happy ending for most of the characters in the story.If you can digest absurd adventures and do not mind a lot people being shot or blown to bits, then you might want to check out the book.
2.5 stars.
The premise was great - a one hundred year old man climbs out of the window in his old people's home and goes on an adventure, meanwhile we follow a separate timeline of his life before the home - Forrest Gump style.
Or just mad old coincidences?
Believable but unlikely stories told by a senile old man?I just couldn't make it fit in my mind, not to mention all the name dropping and political alliances that my poor brain just couldn't follow and frankly didn't care about either!
The book reminds me so much about the Broadway black comedy play, which became a successful motion picture "The Little Horror Shop".
Hilarious in the sense of plot and the execution there of.
It made me laugh at the world.
Tomorrow is another day.But right now the world is a much better place because this story made me laugh for everything that is wrong with our human existence.
Seriously, this book was a kick but it needed to be half as long.The story is about the escapades of a 100-year-old geezer, Allan, who escapes out the window of his nursing home.
The author was trying to cram the whole cake down my throat, but I kept begging him to cut me just a little piece—I don’t want to get sick!And the second reason I didn’t like the back story, and this was the biggest reason, was that it was all about Allan’s encounters with world leaders.
يهرب آلن من نافذة غرفته بدار المسنين في عيد ميلاده المائة ويختفي ينطلق في رحلة غير مُخطط لها يلتقي فيها بشخصيات غريبة وأحداث غير مُتوقعةوأثناء رحلة الهروب يحكي الكاتب عن حياة آلن خلال مائة عام ومغامراته التي لا تنتهيطوال حياته يقع في ورطات غير معقولة ويخرج منها ببساطة وعفويةيتنقل بين البلاد ويعاصر الأحداث الكبيرة والخطيرة في العالم ويُصادق رؤساء الدولرواية لطيفة ومسلية مكتوبة بأسلوب فكاهي وساخر
Want to know where 'the old man' went when he climbed out of the window? Curious? Stop reading the reviews --trust your friend --and take the journey yourself. [MANY other great reviews if you 'must' read some].This book is priceless!'Dudes' too will enjoy this book, also! Reading this, *Gary*! lol
Seriously, it's about as imaginative as "Jonas Jonasson."Here is a list of some alternative titles for your consideration Jonas son of himself - how aboutThe Hundred-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out of the Window and Went on a Killing SpreeorThe Hundred-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out of the Window and Likes to Blow Stuff Up orThe Hundred-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out of the Window and Influenced the Major Political events of the 20th CenturyThen there are all the "How to" type titles like...The Hundred-Year-Old Man's DIY guide to building an Atomic Bomb andThe Hundred-Year-Old Man's guide to making 50 million in 50 secondsWhat about my personal favouriteThe Hundred-Year-Old Man's Tips on How to Train your Elephant - From Toilet Training to Assassination...or How to Bury Your Enemies in ShiteThis book appealed somewhat to the inner Swede in me.
Δώρο και μερικοί απαγορευμένοι ποιητές!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Εγώ θα επανέλθω με απόσπασμα σε λίγο!!!Και επανέρχομαι με το απόσπασμα (από τα σοβαρά και περί πολιτικής ανάλυσης): "Το άλλο που είχε πάρει το αυτί του Άλαν ήταν ότι οι ΗΠΑ, η Γαλλία και η Μεγάλη Βρετανία είχαν συνενώσει τις κατακτημένες ζώνες τους στο γερμανικό έδαφος και είχαν σχηματίσει μια Γερμανική Ομοσπονδιακή Δημοκρατία.
Έπειτα έγιναν κάτι ατέλειωτες διαπραγματεύσεις για το πώς η Κορέα θα μπορούσε να αυτοκυβερνηθεί, αλλά επειδή ο Στάλιν και ο Τρούμαν δεν μοιράζονταν ακριβώς τις ίδιες πολιτικές αξίες (είχαν εντελώς αντίθετες στην πραγματικότητα) το θέμα τελείωσε σχεδόν όπως με τη Γερμανία: Πρώτα φρόντισαν οι ΗΠΑ να δημιουργήσουν μία Νότια Κορέα και η Σοβιετική Ένωση απάντησε με μια Βόρεια Κορέα.
Do not expect this book to be great and you will be pleased.
Reviewers keep comparing it to “Forrest Gump” and having seen the movie, but never read that text, I assume it is.
The novel is told from the present day, where the 100 year old walks out of his nursing home to avoid a 100th birthday party, and in flashbacks that details the events of the last century that brought him to that nursing home.
Although it did seem a bit redundant at times I enjoyed that aspect of the text.
I enjoyed the read, and expect no more from it.
گاهی همهچیز بهطور مسخرهای هوشمندانه است.
این چیزی است که میشود دربارهی این کتاب نوشت.
در نظر اول شخصیت اصلی آدمی احمق و کودن جلوه میکند اما اگر سیر زندگی او را بخوانید، میفهمید که او با اقبال بلند و هوشی زیرکانهای همواره از مرگ گریخته و حالا در صد سالگی دوباره دست به ماجراجویی میزند.
کتاب طنزی خوشایند دارد و گاهی از هماهنگی و جفت و جور شدن اتفاقات طوری خندهام میگرفت که دلم نمیآمد برای این کتاب کمتر از چهار ستاره در نظر بگیرم.
به شما بگویم که لحظات خوشی را با این کتاب سپری خواهید کرد.
گاهی همه‌چیز به‌طور مسخره‌ای هوشمندانه است.
این چیزی است که می‌شود درباره‌ی این کتاب نوشت.
در نظر اول شخصیت اصلی آدمی احمق و کودن جلوه می‌کند اما اگر سیر زندگی او را بخوانید، می‌فهمید که او با اقبال بلند و هوشی زیرکانه‌ای همواره از مرگ گریخته و حالا در صد سالگی دوباره دست به ماجراجویی می‌زند.
کتاب طنزی خوشایند دارد و گاهی از هماهنگی و جفت و جور شدن اتفاقات طوری خنده‌ام می‌گرفت که دلم نمی‌آمد برای این کتاب کمتر از چهار ستاره در نظر بگیرم.
:) پ.ن: بعد از چند ماه فاصله گرفتن از این کتاب احساس کردم چهار ستاره زیاد بود.
Abandoned p/77.Couldn't connect with it at all, Allan Karlsson, the one hundred year old man in question was a pain in the bum, even in the brief time I spent in his company. The writing also felt lackluster and lazy.If Jonasson set out with the good intentions to pen a warm-hearted, funny and feel good novel then fair enough, he has probably achieved this for the vast majority. Well, I am not in the vast majority, as in my eyes it was just plain bad, but at least I gave it a shot.
So, after finishing the novel, I can say that it has successfully veered away from any type of overt allegory, may the allegorical heavens be praised.
On the other hand, I enjoyed the way that our intrepid hero managed to comment about so many political features of the 20th century by being so apolitical.
(As we are made to believe for our intrepid hero.) If that's the case, then it's a decent enough comedy, but if you're taking the whole novel as a piece, then I'm sure you will be pleasantly surprised by the stroll.
The story begins with Allan Karlsson, running away from his nursing home on the afternoon of his 100th birthday - just before the celebration is about to begin (with the Mayor & local media in attendance no less).
And while he's waiting for a bus to take him out of town, a young tough asks him to guard his suitcase while he goes to the bathroom.
Half the town is already looking for Allan Karlsson.......and now, so is the man who came back to find his suitcase stolen.
Hilarious book about a 100-year-old man who crawls out of the Nursing Home window and goes on many adventures involving, but not limited to: murder, elephants, and robbery.The chapters about what's going on with Allan (the old man) now, at age 100, are interspersed with chapters about his many adventures in the past as an explosives expert.
I love the bare-bones style Jonasson uses in this book, which reminds me of my beloved Karin Fossum.I also admire Allan's constant laissez-faire attitude about everything.
