https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40389231-cold-sassy-tree
A joy to read, and re-read, and share with all your friends, I give you my review of a story that is a treasured friend..._______________________After reading the book jacket, I approached this recommendation with a "hrmph", as my mind jumped ahead to hurl the first sentence of my review: "life was pretty good in the south after the Civil War as long as you weren't black or poor." Quite frankly, I had been wrestling with the injustice of racism and was in no mood either appreciate the segregated culture of the south in which it persisted, or to see it romanticized.
Although it gives a pretty good depiction of small town life in Georgia, it says nothing about racial inequities which of course still remained after the Civil War. The whites certainly don’t see their black servants as their equals but they are not cruel.
Or is it his grandfather?Are the grandfather’s actions and the way he chose to live his life and his behavior towards all those around him that is the central focus of this book?
Don’t say I didn’t warn you, but I will add that there is at least one that isn’t a hypocrite.There must be some suspense in a book, right?
My grandmother's favorite book of all time, so I have always wanted to read it.
This is such a great book.
It nearly ripped my heart out for making me think of my Grandmother.
It is about a 14 year old boy in 1906 Cold Sassy, Georgia.
The book centers on Will Tweedy's relationship with his grandfather and the small town scandal that begins when his grandfather remarries a young woman two weeks after his wife's passing.
I cried for the last 50 pages and wanted my Grandmother to be here to hug me and tell me she loved me at the end.
Thankfully I read this one via the audiobook version as it would have been an even slower and more painful read otherwise due to the thick southern vernacular: If’n you’d a-got kilt, it’d mean you jest didn’t move fast enough, like a rabbit that gits caught by a hound dog.
Ain't the best prayin' jest bein' with God and talkin' a while, like He's a good friend, stead a-like he runs a store and you've come in a-hopin' to git a bargain?-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: To mourn is to be eaten alive with homesickness for the person.First Sentences: Three weeks after Granny Blakeslee died, Grandpa came to our house for his early morning snort of whiskey, as usual, and said to me, "Will Tweedy?
Cold Sassy Tree was Olive Ann Burns's debut novel, published as she turned 60, and I can tell you, she does not disappoint the reader.
There's an "old school" feel here, an indescribable quality that takes me back to sitting in trees as a child, my back supported by the trunk and my young mind supported by whatever precious book I held propped in my hand.What joy, to think about those days, and that joy is somehow captured here in this coming-of-age novel.
The time period is set in the early 1900's in the South.
Typical of small town southern life there was the gossip, the exaggerated sense of morality and certainly the lack of privacy in actions and thoughts.
Burns has blended much humor with periods of suspense and principals of wisdom.
Members of my local book club enjoyed this with few exceptions and we had an extensive discussion period.
Also of interest, was the fact that Olive Burns wrote this, her first book, at the age of 60!
I actually really liked this book, but I think I enjoyed the cultural and historical aspects of it more than the story, to be frank.
Burns paints a wonderful picture of life in a small and changing southern town in the early 20th century.
We also see the coming of the automobile and the way that the town is still stuck in the Civil War. As a coming of age story, its pretty good, but I liked it more for the culture Burns evoked while writing about the town.
I enjoyed this book but it fell a little flat, it had some good parts but I was expecting more because of the outstanding reviews. The story is told out of the eyes of a young boy from a privileged family. All of the characters lead back to his Grandfather and his fortune. Just a little trite for me. I think I was ruined by the absolutely wonderful bestseller, "The Saving of CeeCee Honeycutt", another book set in the South.
Digital Audiobook performed by Grover Gardner Thirteen-year-old Will Tweedy narrates Burns’ historical novel which takes place in the small Georgia town of Cold Sassy Tree circa 1906.
Change is a constant theme … from the personal relationships to the introduction of automobiles, the citizens of Cold Sassy Tree manage to adjust, sometimes with grace and other times with more than a little consternation.
And was touched by the tenderness of his first love.Grover Gardner does a marvelous job performing the audio.
He has a lot of characters to interpret and does a great job of Will Tweedy and Grandpa Blakeslee.
A short description of this book, if I had to put it in my own words, would be that it’s a coming of age story about a boy named Will Tweedy mixed with a family drama of a family coming to terms with the death of their matriarch and learning to accept the patriarch marrying someone else.
I haven’t read a book that focused on a family just living day to day life in a long time.
I read it at the perfect time because I was able to oversee the silliness of this book’s characters and their decisions, and I was able to completely fall in love with the story gradually as I got more and more into it.
This was a good, slow moving book. I know that sentence didn't make sense but it does when you talk about this book.
Now, she wasn't really an avid reader, so I figured that hey, if she loved it and it got her to finish the book, it's probably pretty good.Fast forward more years than I'd care to admit and I've finally read it.
I'm just saying that I really, really didn't like Cold Sassy Tree.The overall feel of the book was so melodramatic, yet unfocused, that it was really jarring to read.
I suppose we're meant to like Grandpa and Miss Love, and Will Tweedy, the narrator, but I was really put off by the way they just go along with the hypocrisy of their fellow townsfolk.
The characters are vibrant, the language is rich and there are good life's lessons throughout--but it's not preachy.
Young Will Tweedy is 14 at the turn of the century and is living in the town of Cold Sassy, Georgia.
The events subsequent to this scandalous event changes Will's outlook on life forever.
He has an "old" grandpa who is made young again by the pretty young wife and he himself begins to grow up as he romanticizes about women, kisses someone for the first time, and drives around town in his grandfather's new automobile.
I can't believe Janette only gave this book 3 stars!
I love this book, it's so delightful, the characters are so human with their fears, and pettiness and prejudices and lusts.
It had a lot of humor in it as well, like when the grandpa decided eloped with the millner (hat maker) 2 weeks after the grandma died, and his excuse was, "she's as dead as she's ever gonna be!" But we didn't doubt his devotion to the grandma, because he completely lined her grave with cut roses from her rose garden.
It's just a great book, and one of my favorites.
I found the story, particularly the main story of an old man and a middle-aged woman falling in love compelling and believable.
However, the book had some major flaws, in my opinion.1.
Will overhears: declarations of love, revelations of rape and incest, discussions of theology, heavy petting, repentence for infedelity, reunions of lovers, confessions of past sins, among other things.
The back of the book said, "Not since To Kill a Mockingbird has a novel so deftly capture the subtle crossscurrents of small-town southern life." Hmmm.
I think this book is miles, miles away from To Kill a Mockingbird in just about every category.
It is a shame the literary world lost the talents of Ms. Burns so early, but what a wonderful gem she left us.
I first read this book years ago, only to learn that the author passed away while writing her follow up.
It shows both the idyllic southern childhood of a small town and the sadness of losing that innocence.There is a follow up that uses her manuscript and outline but it pales from comparison and the loss of what we know is missing.
The plot is so contrived, in fact, that the narrator is constantly unable to explain how events he describes came to pass, and chooses instead simply to ask the reader to believe that it happened.The dreadful story was bad enough, but the portion of the book I read seemed to read like an anti-TKAM - the one-dimensional characters seemed perfectly comfortable with their Deep Southern prejudices (the fact that all of the town's other white folk shared the same opinions was apparently reason enough for their snobbish, racist views), and the author's treatment of her novel's black characters was, at best, patronising.
I liked this book for a couple of reasons but first - I gave it only 4 stars because I had a hard time with the southern writing (trying to do the accent), it was a little distracting for me.What I did like was some of the religious views taught - what might Jesus mean by 'ask and ye shall receive', the view of death and mourning.
it was good reflection.
It was also a great book to read before bed to take my mind off my own world of family, business, church and let it all go so that I could sleep better at night.
Wonderful work of Southern literature, set in Georgia in the late 1800s. I actually enjoyed this even more than I expected. It will definitely be a new love of mine, in the same ranks as Gone with the Wind!
Upon reading the summary, I anticipated a heavily plot driven story about the events after Mr. Blakeslee marries Miss Simpson.The characters of Cold Sassy made the book for me, despite the fact I hated most of them.
Aside from Loma and Mrs. Tweedy, I felt even the minor characters, like Hosie, were developed and really made me care for them which is why I stuck it out to the end.The plot was the most disappointing part of the novel for me.
The plot of this book is basically Will Tweedy eavesdropping on Miss Love and Mr. Blakeslee, not telling anyone what they said, and making up outlandish stories about Loma.
Faith don’t mean the Lord is go’n make lions lay down with lambs jest cause you ast him to, or make fire not burn.
When Jesus said ast and you’ll git it, He was given’ thet if’n you git beat down—scairt to death you cain’t do what you got to, or scairt you go’n die, or scairt folks won’t like you—why, all you got to do is put yore hand in God’s and He’ll lift you up.
Jesus meant us to ast God to hep us stand the pain, not beg Him to take the pain away.
I read this one a few weeks ago and I loved the characters in this story because I could see a little bit of myself in each one of them.
It is a simple story about a boy named Will Tweedy in a small Georgia town in the early 1900s whose Grandpa remarries the young and very attractive milliner only three weeks after losing his wife.
The plot was so easy going and I really felt like I was watching a movie.
Most of all I loved how this story talks about childhood and adolescent curiosity and expresses some sentiments that people will rarely admit to having.
I know many liked this book.
Though I did finish it, it just wasn't for me.
First of all, there was too much southern dialect in the writing.
I'd willingly accept all dialogue to be in dialect, but much - though not all - of the first person narrative was also written in dialect.
Near the beginning of the book, and several times throughout, were references to "damnyankees".
Finally, there was just too much religious philosophy.
If I want to read a book on religious philosophy, please let it be my choice, not a novel.
This book barely rises above 1 star.
I loved this book! Such a sweet story. I couldn't help comparing it with A Tree Grows in Brooklyn because #1 they both have 'tree' in the title and #2 they're both a "snapshot" of life as told through the eyes of a young person. But where Tree was such a chore to read, Cold Sassy was a pleasure. The characters were vivid and fun and while they had their share of troubles they didn't drag down the entire book. To top it all off I got to read with a southern accent, yes!!
I love this book - such a loss that Olive Ann Burns died relatively young.
I really liked this book, but I found it much easier to listen to this book than to read it.
I loved his take on faith and loyalty and life in general.
He was just such a refreshing character to meet, one who had such a realistic and "homegrown" faith and relationship with his God. I loved his take on faith, that it is not a guarantee or reward, but rather a way of life.I really liked Will Tweedy as a narrator.
Overall, I really liked the book.
I think that Grandpa Blakeslee will stick with me for a while after reading this one.
I joined Goodreads because I HAVE to read and want to read great books.
This is a story of a young man, Will Tweedy, as he sorts out family values, community prejudices, Christian assumptions, and his hope for the future in a changing society.
She captured the voice of a young boy becoming a man and used the southern dialect in such a way that I fell into it.
And I loved it.This book would probably mean more to you if you are a Christian, but it's so great, I think you would love it even if you were not.
This is an excellent picture of life at the turn of the century, including the advent of the automobile, electric lights and indoor plumbing.
It's also an interesting coming-of-age tale told by a 14-year-old boy.
That criticism is hardly relevant for most adult readers--this book is not marketed for kids, and it's actually quite tame.
It's no "Beloved," and hardly even a "Sula" or "the Color Purple." It's a great southern tale in a context that is vividly pictured, vividly alive.
Maybe that's even the point of a coming-of-age tale, or an initiation-maturation plot: the hero does lose some innocence, perhaps, seeing things he'd not known before.
Anyway, GREAT BOOK.
Told thru the eyes of a young boy, the story begins around the death of his grandmother.
The book unwinds through an absolutely crucial year in the life of this boy--the beginning of manhood through experiencing pain and understanding.
Someone wrote, it's a funny book about death.
You might find yourself speaking like the characters in the book if you're not careful!
I'd mark this as terrific read and would recommend it to all of my friends.Unfortunately, Ms Burns died before editing or finishing the sequal to this, so it probably wouldn't be as strong and as well written as this.
★★★★✩ Turn of the century coming-of-age story told a young adolescent boy, Will Tweedy, who sides with his curmudgeonly grandfather, a store owner bent on marrying a younger woman.
I don’t know which is worse in the eyes of this small town Georgian life: the fact that she is “practically a Yankee” or it is only two weeks after the death of his beloved grandmother.I had mixed feelings about some parts of it as there are some racial words and mores that, in all honesty, were prevalent for that era.
Still, it is a compelling story with Will Tweedy making cringe-worthy mistakes and has several life lessons well illustrated.
