https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97782.Then_We_Came_to_the_End
Oh, it's witty and flippant and clever and occasionally funny, but ultimately it's not enjoyable.It fails for the reason so many MFA-workshopped novels fail: It's a technically proficient piece of writing about unserious folks discovering truths that serious persons generally know long before their 30th birthdays.Then We Came to the End begins like a sequel to the movie "Office Space", written by Chuck Palahniuk.
maybe to appear serious?But there's a piece of writing, an accomplishment of actual storytelling, that begins on Page 196 and treats the pathos of a person recently diagnosed with breast cancer.
I read 'A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius' the summer before my senior year, when I was panicking about what I was going to do with the rest of my life, and it completely changed the way I looked at myself and the world around me.
His recognition of the corporate world is obvious when speaking about the universal feelings of the office worker, and his use of 1st person plural as a narrative device is the sort of gimmick that wouldn't work, or would be too precious or cute, in any other setting, but perfectly captures the tone for such an environment.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 Stars “You guys are sick in the head,” said Genevieve. “Prove it,” replied Tom. First things first – I would like everyone to notice that little sticker in the corner of the cover of this here novel indicating that it was a National Book Award Finalist proving that I is kind, I is smart, I is important. Okay, maybe not, but . . . . .  Oh wait, I spoke to soon. I have no recollection of how Then We Came to the End wound up on my rad
“Prove it,” replied Tom. First things first – I would like everyone to notice that little sticker in the corner of the cover of this here novel indicating that it was a National Book Award Finalist proving that I is kind, I is smart, I is important.
People like the guy who just got “right-sized” out of his job and is taking the high road .
Or the guy who knows “right-sizing” is just a fancy term for being laid off/fired and isn’t taking things so well .
And I’d get fired if I ever said what I really think like some of these guys do .
“There’s a lot of beauty in ordinary things. Isn’t that kind of the point?”- Jenna Fischer as Pam Halpert, in the series finale of The Office. Unlike the characters in the novels we read, most of us will not be tasked with catching a serial killer, surviving a zombie apocalypse, or otherwise saving the world. Most of us have workaday jobs that – in terms relative to high drama – are mostly ordinary. Despite being ordinary, though, they also can play enormously important roles in our lives. That’
If you’ve ever worked in an office, you will find the characters endearingly (or not) familiar: the guy who sends the long crazy emails quoting Emerson; the guy who copies books on the copy machine to read at his desk, so people think he's working; the brown-nosing middle manager striving to get ahead; the guy who cares too much about his office chair; the cold, distant boss; the office gossip.
When one of us walked the Spanish, and got out of the system, we thought back on those loquacious and smiling media buyers as just some of the nicest people.I have never worked in an ad agency myself.
OK, I picked up this book because I had read several good reviews of it.
This book takes place in an office.
I love the TV show "The Office." Some readers of this book compared the two.Then I read the book.
Were people reading the same book I was?
It absolutely drove me up a wall that most of the characters are mentioned by their first and last names throughout the entire book.
The ENTIRE BOOK of Joe Pope this, Hank Neary, Chris Yop that.
I also really hated the author's use of the first person plural.

The novel works basically like third-person omniscient except that the "we" flourishes allow Ferris to portray his fractured community as a hive-mind entity.
Sure, I've had summer jobs and temp gigs and internships in office environments, but the kind of really intense community that Ferris writes about isn't something I've ever really experienced, and despite all the undesirable aspects of office life in the book, that made me sad.
The point of view tired me out on my first attempt, but a month or so later I returned to the novel with an open mind (and heart, I suppose), able to fall into the 'we' without a problem at all.
But, after being bored/annoyed/frustrated, I'd come back to the book a couple hours later, dying, again, to read it.
The third-person section about Lynn Mason fell flat for me.
It wasn't moving in the way it should have been, or could have been.I did, however, love the last thirty pages, especially the last line, which shifted the point of view from a technical and thematic acrobatic to something poignant and intimate.
I began to notice how the book’s structure mirrored the actual setting of the story, and, like a new office hire, I began to feel more attached to the characters as I spent more time in their world.
Though I wasn’t thrilled with the literary gimmick revealed at the end, I got enough involved in the story to feel a sense of personal connection to the people whose fates were discussed in the last chapter, and I closed the book with a much greater sense of satisfaction than I expected.
I mean like any kind of paid work, never, silch, squat, nada, zero, nope.
But that doesn’t compare shit to all those times a professor says your work isn’t good enough.
But then you think maybe you didn’t and some other guy that he says did a good job did.
But maybe I’m just saying shit to get you to like this review.
Maybe the stuff of legends are whinos like me complaining about their everyday lives, their miniature-compared-to yours type of problems.
It’s about wanting to say un-stupid things to people that think you’re stupid.
If that was one of the main purposes for the use of the first person plural, then I felt somewhat like the victim of a shaggy dog joke.At first, the first person plural seemed fine with me, but ultimately I think what it did was, instead of involving me as a participant, as part of the “we,” it distanced me from the book.
Instead, for me, the voice of “we” became an impersonal outside observer instead of a participant in the story.At first I thought the book was funny, well, amusing anyway.
I've worked in an office scenario like this and easily recognized the stereotypes depicted by Ferris (part of the fun in the beginning was recognizing and assigning real life names to the characters, "Oh my God, that is totally Bubba!"--obviously names have been changed here to make sure I don't get my butt kicked by a former colleague).
In some cases, the individual character is someone who has become the poster child for a particular office stereotype and is granted an individual name based upon the collective's view of this person as "different" in some way: the person who is always last to know, the person who is always the first to know, the storyteller, the noncomformist, the perfectionist, the couple engaged in the interoffice affair.
I went into this book expecting something similar.
To couch it in sit-com terms, it was like those episodes of MASH where the normal humor and sarcasm would give way to something serious and poignant.
They were effective because we were made to like the characters first so that anything bad happening to them would have greater emotional mass.
Each character within the “we” is developed separately and thoroughly, but no single one of them becomes a dominant voice in the telling of the story.
It was like a separate, but connected story.
Other characters had issues to resolve, too.
I really, really, really enjoyed reading this book.
I'll turn 37 in a few days and for the first time in my life I'm working in an office building, in a cube.
What kind of person spends their days thinking up ways to dupe me into buying shit I don't need?
But then at one point Ferris's narrator describes himself (and his co-workers) as "hired guns of the soul." (or somethingtothateffect), and I was like "So they know?" Of course they know.
But the sad and hard truth of the matter is, as the book poignantly affirms, we need these jobs.
It's almost like working in a real office: You don't love or even like everyone, but if you spend enough time together you become a family of sorts, invested in everyone's outcome.As an ardent fan of Catch-22, I initially scoffed at the comparisons of this novel to Joseph Heller's masterpiece, but I'll be damned if I didn't come to agree with them: Then We Came to the End has the same large cast of characters, the nonlinear timeline, the smarts, the absurdity--plus, most importantly, the ability to wring both humor and compassion from such a grim scenario.I tried to read this book once before, back in 2008 when it first came out in paperback.
At first, I feared the entire book would be about the personal relationships and habits and put-downs and shifting allegiances of the workers, without any actual discussion of what they did for a living, but in fact some of their advertising work does find its way into the story.
But that’s where the similarities end, and I must say I couldn’t be more pleased with the resulting differential equation.If you’ve ever considered your coworkers weird, and believed wholeheartedly that you were the normal individual in this corporately bureaucratic world, this book is for you.
If you’ve ever wanted to walk out of a corporate meeting, because the idiot behind the podium has diarrhea of the mouth, and can’t seem to close his mouth for more than two seconds to answer a flippin’ question, even as you’ve waved your hand in the air for the past five minutes, this book is for you.
To that end, there are plenty of characters here who fit into that faceless corporation mold, and who only pop up to show how sad & unfeeling our society has become (the office coordinator, for example).
I think the danger that Ferris faced in writing this novel was relying too much on stereotypes in the workplace, because there are weird people in every office, but there are enough REAL human people here to latch onto to carry you through the story.
We return to the every-day and there comes a real heavy plot device that brings the story to a close, and there is an even more contrived device to bring all these characters together in a reunion.
Hard to deny the writing skill in this one—dense with little vignettes that move seamlessly between each other.It's pitching heavily for Heller, which is why the humour is so pointedly depressing, but the jokes don't crash land with the same density, I think partly because I'm delightfully fatigued by American mediocrity porn (oh wait!
Do say why, dear chap!) also because Joshua Ferris is still having trouble getting over the fact that he's not Joseph Heller, so I can see the strings and zippers of his devices through the cracks in his voice's authenticity.An aside: you're damn right I can see zippers through the cracks in a person's voice's authenticity!
A forerunner at my come-on-you-need-to-read-this list, so dull it hurt my eyes, so today I gave it another go and - no, still dull, hate this style, "are you sure you want to delete it?" oh hell, never been more certain!
This is simple office story where simple different characteristics join and time was very crucial as the lay-off drama was going on.
There are lots of Someone's.And the boss of all of them have cancer whose secret remain no longer secret to others.At times this entire book was to me was like as I am sitting in my own office and staring at people.As a debut novel of Ferris, whose 'Rise again ...
' I simply loved I would say this was pretty average book because around 100 pages of it I felt very dragging.
But the ending of the book saved its grace.3.5/5 as my take
Any office dweller would be familiar with these feelings, and the author replicates them so beautifully with his narrator.The thing that most struck me about this book was how often I found myself catching my breath when I came across a passage and reaching for a post-it note to mark it with a "so true!" so I could come back to it later.
He manages so often to put his finger on the kinds of frustration and bewilderment we feel about our work that is so hard to express.
All over America, in fact, people were up and out of their beds today in a continuing effort to polish turds.
I will freely admit that when you make this choice, you open yourself to the possibility of missing choice prose, and just reading for plot points in your bleary-eyed state.
Moving to a different medium, I just saw 3 Kings, which employs stereotypical characters of the armed forces variety, but because of the emotional availability of Mark Wahlberg and the strange and singular humor of David O.
When the American soldiers are storming a building, and an Iraqi soldier runs by with an armful of blue jeans, or when Mark Wahlberg suggests the substitute of one more acceptable racial epithet for another, you feel like you are launched into a (skewed) form of reality.
It starts off subtle and real and funny in an everyday way, making you appreciate the characters' quirks and start to love them.
There's some bits of wackiness here and there that makes you pause for a moment to think, "Hey, that's a little over the top," but you realize it's justified because there's a moderate amount of crazy in all of us.
And then there's a sad, touching moment that makes you realize that you really, really do love these characters.
Un romanzo da manuale di corsi di scrittura creativa.
Qui troviamo l'uso accattivante della prima persona plurale (così intrigante che abbiamo deciso di copiarlo per questa recensione), un titolo dal sapore postmoderno, un eccesso di sarcasmo e molte scenette ilari.
Non crediamo che basti seguire la ricetta per scrivere un buon libro e, soprattutto, davvero funziona così?
Ci si mette a tavolino e si scrive spuntando da una lista l'elenco delle trovate?
Qui non c'è storia, ma tanti freddi tecnicismi da manuale, non si trasmettono emozioni, ma appare chiara la ricerca di battute tanto originali da poter competere con le calamite sul frigorifero.
Oppure è una metafora dell'insensibilità della società moderna?
I know I've been giving out 5 star reviews lately like a whore on Christmas but this book blew me away.
Throughout the book there were moments that made me say, "Of course!
Up until the last 100 pages (especially the last 30 or so, I would've given it 4 stars.
There are little moments like that throughout the book.
The descriptions of starting a new job, the weeks and in most cases months of anonymity, the lunches spent in solitude...I recently started a job in a sort of office, and I knew exactly what that was like.

اگر به «بینام» پنج ستاره بدهم که بدون شک میدهم به این رمان که جاشوا فریس قبل از «بینام» نوشنه چهارستاره میدهم.راوی اول شخص جمع برای رمان اول نویسنده خیلی بلندپروازانه است اما خیلی خوب اجرا شده طوری که تمام کارمندان شرکت تبلبغات یک هویت واحد دارند به نام «ما» و البته تک تکشان تا انتهای داستان فردیت خود را نه خارج از زندگی اداری بلکه توی همان فضا پیدا میکنند. لین که رییسشان است و داستان اصلی را پیش میبرد جدا میافتد و... فکر کنم من بعد جاشوا خان را حسابی تعقبب کنم.
اگر به «بی‌نام» پنج ستاره بدهم که بدون شک می‌دهم به این رمان که جاشوا فریس قبل از «بی‌نام» نوشنه چهارستاره می‌دهم.راوی اول شخص جمع برای رمان اول نویسنده خیلی بلندپروازانه است اما خیلی خوب اجرا شده طوری که تمام کارمندان شرکت تبلبغات یک هویت واحد دارند به نام «ما» و البته تک تک‌شان تا انتهای داستان فردیت خود را نه خارج از زندگی اداری بلکه توی همان فضا پیدا می‌کنند. لین که رییس‌شان است و داستان اصلی را پیش می‌برد جدا می‌افتد و... فکر کنم من بعد جاشوا خان را حسابی تعقبب کنم.
But Ferris goes deeper than that; he does nothing less than capture the zeitgeist of inter-office relations and how it affects us as human beings, smoothly wrapping it all up in a bitterly funny package.The cubicle-dwellers inhabiting “Then We Came to the End” and its unnamed advertising agency are, by nature, not the stuff of epic fiction.
There are inspired hijinks related to rampant chair-swapping and a vindictive office coordinator, a client asks the firm to capture the funny side of cancer in an ad, and our employees – ever advertisers – re-touch the photo of a young girl in a missing poster because they think people will be more likely to respond if she doesn’t look so pale and her smile isn’t so crooked.
It helps, of course, that I just went through this very thing at Random House (the book was actually recommended to me by my former boss, who was laid off at the same time I was), but really, this is a strong, interesting book that would probably appeal to even those who haven't been through this sort of thing.
It's an easy read, but it moves gracefully from being wholly focused on the petty minutia of office life (Who gets the good chair when that guy down the hall is laid off?
