https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248764.Climbing_Mount_Improbable
Or that wars are waged inside of figs by opposing armies of wasps where millions die in battles over the rights to lay eggs and continue their genetic lines?
And in a fruit that is the entire world for all of the males of the species involved whom will never leave the fig and just live their lives for the sake of battling so that the females of their species can lay their eggs and pollinate.
Za ovu knjigu potrebno je određeno predznanje-predznanje osnovnoškolske bilogije, kemije i fizike. Ali zato pruža puno, i tko voli čitati popularnu znanost prepunu činjenica, ovo je prava knjioga koja pojašnjava puno toga.
A very difficult read. Including very fragmented chapters, though interesting.
After a couple weeks of slowly reading through this one, I gave up and skimmed the last 150 or so pages.
This book was not as engaging as Blind Watchmaker or God Delusion, mostly because it's more of a biology text than a political treatise about evolution.
I very much enjoyed the "what it all means" sections of the book, but those appear too infrequently between the "how it all works" sections.
I can only read so much about fig wasps and nautilus shells.
Dawkins wrote this book in the mid-90s, so he's definitely gotten more passionate and direct in demolishing ID arguments.
This book is but a glimmer.
I highly recommend you read any Dawkins book on evolution, if you want the best coherent explanation of the processes of natural selection.According to Wikipedia, Dawkins is "Darwin's Rottweiler".
In this book, Dawkins attempts to explain how it is possible that evolution of such amazing instruments as eyes can happen through nothing more than natural selection.
I really *get* that natural selection with random mutation is like a giant natural optimization program operating to refine organisms so at to preserve genes.
Read Acquiring Genomes, by Margulis and Sagan for many more examples of possible evolutionary factors beyond natural selection.
Richard Dawkins's condescending arrogance is getting on my nerves so much that I doubt I'll finish this...But I stuck with it and I made it through.
Interestingly, when Dick Dawkins is focusing on explaining how cool evolution is, and not bagging various religions (well mostly just the Western ones), he is actually a very entertaining, and also quite persuasive, writer.The middle of the book is very much in that style.
Dawkins seems keen to share with the reader something he finds very cool.
I'd tried to read Stephen Jay Gould books a couple of times but I never enjoyed them, usually couldn't finish.
I was immediately fascinated with the subject of evolution and went on to read all of Dawkin's other books available at that time.
I couldn't get enough and every one I read made things even clearer - especially The Selfish Gene.
I didn't stick only with Dawkins, I read various others, including managing to get through a couple of those Stephen Jay Gould books, which I understood a bit better now, but still didn't especially like his style in comparison to Dawkins' writing.
Some parts are a little outdated (especially the part about 3D printers and their nonexistence) but it makes sense as it was written 20 years ago.Once you accept that the author is a bit of an egomaniac, the book is well written, interesting and understandable even for those who never were that much into biology.
And, of course, anyone who mentions Douglas Adams scores some points.edit:BTW there is one Czech writer (Ondřej Sekora) whose books for children are especially accurate as for ants development.
First chapter of Climbing Mount Improbable strongly reminded me of Ferda Mravenec (Ferda, the Ant).
So understandable it was.
Too many iffy chapters that were more boring than interesting...
I read this book years ago, when I developed an interest in learning more about evolution.
I also wanted to see if it appeared differently to me now that I had acquired considerably more knowledge about evolution via reading books by various authors.Richard Dawkins has at least two things going for him: one is that he is extremely knowledgeable about zoology and about evolution.
Dawkins is the living apostle of Darwin, with the advantage of genetic understanding.
This is one of the longest chapters in the book and Dawkins is very thorough in covering the topic.
He then mentions Douglas Adams' The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, in which a cow offers itself for dinner because it was bred to enjoy being eaten.In the last chapter, after the intricate story of the dance (or game) of the co-evolution of figs and fig wasps, he again argues for natural selection, using a computer analogy that brought to mind the increasingly powerful computers in Douglas Adams' Hitchhiker's Guide to the Universe that were designed to answer the ultimate question of life, the universe, and everything.
The fig grows at the top of Mountain Improbable- the peak of evolution as we know it, and to get there we are led through the models of evolution of spider webs, gradual evolution of wings and eyes, variety of shell design and body design.
Dawkins, though, takes each element he discusses: spiders and their webs, wings, etc., and shows (sometimes involving computer models into his demonstrations) how it is all possible and feasible, and not really that difficult if done step by step.
Figs and paradises exist surely to provide esthetic pleasure for us, and flowers definitely are there to make our world more beautiful :o)
Once and for all: evolution is NOT about progress, a process tending towards a specific purpose and behind which, then, lies a designer.
Besides, he defends his selfish gene hypothesis and, bounces back on the computer models developped for 'The Blind Watchmaker' in order to, not only simulate evolution through natural selection but also (and no, it's not a paradox) show what differentiate it from a guided selection.
The point is, if 'The Blind Watchmaker' was a frontal attack against the idea of an intelligent design, an in-your-face atheism, 'Climbing Mount Improbable' is more open and less radical.
This books was excellent; it marks the point where Dawkins really came into his own as an accessible pop-science writer.
To add to what I've said before, anyone wanting a clear treatment on evolution designed for the layman should start with The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution, followed immediately by Climbing Mount Improbable.
Being that it was written much earlier than The Greatest Show on Earth, Climbing Mount Improbable is concerned more with theory than data, but it still makes for an engaging read.
If you have found yourself questioning the fact of evolution with the common rejoinder "but what use is half an eye," and you really would like a serious answer to that, read this book.Dawkins explains exactly how 1/2 an eye is better than no eye at all, and just what 1/2 an eye might be.
But if one thinks of a cell more light sensitive than it's neighbors, one can see how it might benefit the creature.Dawkins also gives extensive time to the next common question "but that would take so long." He answers that even the most conservative models we devise would have had adequate time.Dawkins makes another point that is key, I believe.
when richard wrote this book about the slow evolutionary plod of the evolving eye up the billion year probability mountain - a guy in the same faculty who he probably saw in the tea room was dr brian goodwin - who with the use of chaos computation proved that the eye in acetabularia could evolve and devolve spontaneously as appropriate ...
and it was evident scientifically from 1992 at www.santafe.edu - and he still refuses to see ...
which leaves him with a real peer review mountain to climb ...
Darwin was scientifically superceded over 15 years ago and richard must know this.
Nearly twenty years old, but, because it's so full of interesting detail, still very worth reading even for those who already have a decent grasp of natural selection and the ways in which it operates. There are really only a couple of things that clue you in to the book's age, e.g., his comments on 3D printing and nanotechnology, both areas in which progress has, I think, been more rapid that he expected.
An impeccable book on evolution. If you are familiar with Dawkins' earlier works, this may sound a little bit repetitive (it did for me). However, his brilliant prose and ability to make complex topics interesting shines through in this work. A great work on making the incomprehensibility of evolution comprehensible to a lay audience. Recommended.
Maravillosa introducción a la teoría de la Evolución, en el que asemeja la llegada a la cima de la evolución de una especie con la escalada de un monte cuyo relieve se desconoce. En particular, la explicación de cómo el ojo ha evolucionado repetidamente ten varias especies de manera independiente es maravillosa. Un libro que debería ser de obligada lectura en el bachillerato.
My father, who otherwise is anti-religious, is a creationist. He can't reconcile the complexity of life with the simplicity of evolution. I'm going to recommend this book to him as a fantastic explanation of how simple changes, repeated over and over, can add up to the vast ecosystem we have today. Great work, Dawkins!
You go, Richard!! Debunk ID!
If you want to better understand evolution, read Dawkins!Such explanatory prowess!
Another brilliance from Richard Dawkins
This was a challenging read. Dawkins works very hard to make the details of evolution understandable, but a couple of times my mind was spinning. That may be because it has been so LONG since I studied biology. Most of his story was accessible to me.It is also a fascinating read. To see how all things have evolved over the aeons; even things that seem to not lend themselves to Darwin's theory of evolution. Hence the title of the book. Things that seem improbable can be understood and logical through Darwin's and his successors' work.
Dawkins demonstrates how this mountain can be climbed, by taking the reader up the gradual slopes round the rear of the mountain which, with enough time, can be traversed by the process of evolution by natural selection.The chapters of the book can be roughly divided into two categories.
In the second category Dawkins focuses on a certain concept of natural selection, such as embryology, or the "purpose" of evolution, in greater detail.Dawkins' prose is engaging and accessible, the book is full of fascinating biological curiosities and I feel that it succeeds in its stated purpose.
Same for a few mechanisms found most evidently in the computer field of genetic algorithms (which have analogues in the real world) that allow for organisms to go down (for a little bit) the slopes of mount improbable in order to reach higher peaks later.Natural Selection doesn't need any of those tricks to be able to support itself as a theory, but as someone with an interest in biology and evolution, it's nice to know that they exist.Overall, this is a great intro book to evolution and it is obviously trying to cater to that public.
Secondo Dawkins, il darwinismo non è la teoria del caso fortuito, come molti (compresi certi suoi seguaci, o presunti tali), credono.
Lo considero un genio della divulgazione scientifica, la cui scrittura è di un'intensità e di una pregnanza tali, da lasciare stupefatti.Al solito il testo scorre velocemente, incalzato da una messe di informazioni interessanti ed intriganti, ma sempre sui rigidi binari di una logica inoppugnabile.Stupefacente ed entusiasmante risulta in particolare l’ultimo capitolo, quello che ci descrive il fico, ossia il frutto dell’omonimo albero, come un vasto giardino richiusosi su se stesso, grazie all’evoluzione che ha subito.
Eppure i soggetti principali di questo gioco della natura sono un minuscolo insetto dotato di un piccolissimo cervello e un albero che non ha affatto un cervello.
Richard Dawkins is the go-to popular science writer on evolution, right?
He does it so well.Richard Dawkins is an excellent science writer.
How natural selection always favours improvements and how it's impossible to 'de-evolve' in order to 're-evolve' as something better.
I didn't know I needed to know about fig wasps, but I was missing out up till now!Sometimes I wish he'd just write about natural selection for its own sake, rather than always politicising it by bringing creationists into the mix.
And he clearly is deeply passionate about his subject, alongside his passion for making creationists look like idiots.
con una analogia interesante, Dawkins nos presenta la evolucion como un monte que puede ser visto desde dos puntos de vista, el priero en donde solo podemos ver grandes cuspides verticales que son imposibles de escalar con ningun equipo.
con los ejemplos presentados podemos ver que cosas que a siple vista parecen muy dificiles de pensar que han evolucionado gradualmente, pero si las vemos desde un punto de vista y de tiempo evolucionario podreos entender que la evolucion por metodos de seleccion natural a resuelto los problemas que no parecen imposibles de resolver.es un libro complejo, tecnico y que se vuelve pesados a momentos.
Extremely clear and very interesting exploration of how evolutionary change is a result of small useful changes built up over time.
And when it's laid out like this it reads like clear common sense - apart from the last chapter, which repeats "fig" and "wasp" so very bloody often that both terms begin to lose all meaning, like when you spend too much time looking at a single word and the shape of it turns alien.
But that's a small quibble, when placed against the chapter on the development of the eye.
