https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688833.In_Search_Of_England
An enchanting journey through old England, Mr. Morton's meanderings and interactions with the village folk he meets along the way are nothing but enchanting!
In Search Of England by H.V. MortonAfter many years abroad, H.V. Morton set out one morning in the mid-1920s, in his Morris two-seater car, on a tour of his home country.This book was published on 2nd June 1927.
One British newspaper described the book as "travel writing at its best.
The best travel writing inspires the reader to want to go and visit the places described.
I came away from this book with a list of places to visit, or revisit.
I was also inspired to look up many of the places he visited online.
Although delightful, this is certainly not an unbiased version of the authors travels - his thoughts are clear for all to see.
For example, he enters Wigan, "expecting the worst" and finds Norfolk, "the most suspicious county in England." Despite his many stereotypes and personal biases though, he is generally enthusiastic and willing to be pleased, as he strikes up endless conversations and searches out people and places of interest.As the author says himself, it is a curious characteristic of the English scenery to change in a few miles.
This travel book is a delight and will show you the England between the wars with a most enthusiastic and illuminating guide.
Morton, born in 1892 near Manchester, was a prolific writer of articles and travel literature.
These later appeared in book form in the 1920s under the titles, “The Heart of London,” and “The Spell of London.” This book, which was first published in 1927, collected his essays written when he took a motor trip around England to discover the English countryside.
Tourist traffic had started in a small way, but Morton managed to avoid the crowds and discover the essence of each English city he visited.
Not the slap your thighs type, but the typical droll, dry humor for which the English are famous.
Many details have changed since he wrote about these places, but this book is not about the details, it is about the atmosphere of each corner of England and that is often unchanged.
There were many times when I thought he captured perfectly that atmosphere, that feel of a place, that sense of history, that England.Morton motors around England from city to town to village, stops and chats to locals and tourists, ogles a few young women, relishes a few garrulous old men, diverts down country lanes which take his fancy and stays in a selection of hotels, inns ans private houses.
V. Morton made his name as one of the twentieth century's most wonderfully companionable travel writers with In Search of England, a book which has been through countless impressions and still stands as possibly the very best introduction to the country and its people."'I have gone round England like a magpip,' writes Morton, 'picking up the bright things that pleased me.
A glance at the route followed will prove that this is not a guide book, and a glance at the contents will expose me to the scorn of local patriots who will see, with incredulous rage, that on many an occasion I passed silently through their favorite village.
Describes how I leave the Place Where London Ends, meet a bowl-turner, stand beneath a gallows on a hill, enter Winchester, accept the wanderer's dole at St. Cross, and ends, quite properly, with a maiden in distress.My 2002 edition had an insightful intro by Jan Morris, in which she cautions against trying to use this as a travel guide:In Search of England is most decidedly a period piece, and that is half its charm.
But on the other hand, the fact that Morton had, even in 1927, to search for those pockets of tradition makes the time seem not so far away.
He had wandered the world and neglected things near at home.He vowed to go in search of England.Travelling by car he starts his journey in the south where Christianity entered Britain and ends in the north.
I have a hardcover 1949 edition still with its dust jacket printed in Great Britain which is most appropriate, I think, by Jove.Travel writing is a flexible genre - compare H.V. Morton to Bill Bryson.
The stone that built London.When I read "…English cities through whose streets history has been flowing for centuries…." I think Britain and the English language have given the world so much.
This book was published in 1935, based on the author's travels in the 1920s, so this aspect was interesting, and when the comparison is made to our lives today it is even more so.
The author is treated to a wireless evening one night , which was apparently a big thing in the village he was in.
Radio was not a household thing in those days, and the reception wasn't too good, but still, its hard to imagine the world he traveled in.
The writing is good, and he finds human interest in all sorts of things, and helps the reader visualize the past as he goes through historic area.
Good read.
Morton's travelogue is the ne plus ultra of travel writing. He's the master of the genre, and his work here is the measure of it. Morton has earned his popularity by capturing the sights, sounds, and splendour of England as it was in the 1920's with aplomb. It's a joy to read this pleasant tour of bridges, forests, pubs, village greens, and eccentric characters.
In Search of England was a wonderful book to read to invoke nostalgia for what England had been.
This reader learned a great deal directly and by researching many of the casuall comments such as Morton referring to the relationship between Kaiser Wilhelm and Louis Raemaekers –it was lost on me even though it was dramatically phrased as how one man gave so much harm to another with a pencil.
And there is much in the reporting of human nature that reminds me at least that the things that truly deeply matter in human life don't change - and even last night sitting in my local village pub hearing snatches of conversation what concerns us all doesn't change much either.In the final pages of the book Morton recounts the vicar of a small village talking "progress" such as modern methods of communication, in this instance newspapers, which bring 'the latest murders every Sunday morning.
Even that has not altered us much: the newspapers are only another kind of fairy story about the world outside.' See - maybe so much hasn't changed after all.
Read at the same time as another book. First published in 1964 it gives a glimpse of the many varieties of English culture and traditions. The author travels the length and breadth of England talking to locals and seeing the sights. A good read. I was born in Manchester, England and lived in Britain until 1977 and although I have travelled back many times to many different places, I enjoyed his idiosyncratic style of writing and learned many new things.
An enjoyable journey across England, particularly seeing how little of Chester has changed to the tourist's eye of 1927. We need more of these!
I enjoyed accompanying Morton around England. This was a relaxing read, and a bit of a travel classic. Apparently, you can still get a free glass of beer at that monastery he mentions...
Old fashion but well done and enjoyable.
He's a wonderful, descriptive and thoughtful writer who brings England very much to life with his words. It's a travelogue but also has lots of interesting history in it, which he presents in a very lively and interesting and easy-to-follow fashion.
The first paragraph of this book hooked me: "I believed that I was dying in Palestine.
My appetite, however, remained excellent." Morton was a homesick journalist during the Great War and wanted to come back to England (he was the first to break the story of Tutankhamun's discovery).
Once home, he traveled to as many towns and cities as he could, recording all he saw in 1927.
He wrote twelve travel books.
I don't find Morton as funny as Bryson, but they do have similar outlooks.
Morton also has a reverence for cathedrals, and peels away history inside each to find something unusual and telling about England.
One of the seminal books of travel as literature, this is a tour around the cathedral towns and assorted small villages of England.
I prefer Morton's In Search of London--written only a few years after World War II, it alternates historical anecdotes about buildings and locations in London with descriptions of the damage done by German bombing.
While In Search of England has its share of historical anecdotes, it isn't as compelling a read as the London book.
Nevertheless, I recommend this, as well as any of Morton's other works, to anyone who enjoys this sort of travel writing.
I picked up (or rather inter-library loan requested) a copy of "In Search of England" based on recommendations that it was the quintessential British travel book to read.
(<---apparently my copy was from 1935 & the book itself dates form 1927 -- oops) Morton's England though was of pastoral, small-village England and he writes odes to it's charms chapter upon chapter.
I much preferred it to Bill Bryson's "Notes from a Small Island" and while I'm sure quite a lot has changed in England since Morton wrote of it, I'm hopeful to visit many of the churches and castles and places he wrote of so eloquently.
Finally getting around to reading this one. It's very romanticized and "quaint" like Clovelly, but a very enjoyable read. I loved his visit to Widecombe. I learned the grey mare song in elementary school in California and found it interesting to read about the real place, with all of Morton's allusions to the song. I don't know England at all, so I have no idea how much of Morton's England remains. I suspect that, like Tintagel, his England "is to be found only within the covers of a book."
I didn't enjoy this as much as his 'pilgrimage' books, 'In the Steps of The Master' and 'In the Steps of St Paul'. I found it a bit twee at times, patronising of the North-West, and he was rather too determined to find 'characters'. Unlike his writing about the Near East, this did not make me want to visit any of the places described. The style falls into that dangerous area between contemporary and old enough to be classic (as George Borrow). So, not really recommended.
c1920 - What a lovely little book and I can see why it is still in print. It is not just the descriptions of the places that he visited but it is the casual acquaintances that he makes along the way which just make this such a good little read. Highly recommended. "Weymouth has not yet recovered from the surprise that George III discovered it as a health resort" Brilliant!
Yes...it was amazing. Anyone who loves England, especially England in the 1920s, will thoroughly enjoy this stroll down memory lane. Too bad we can't go back to this era, and be a tourist in the countryside and cities, and follow Mr. Morton on his fabulous journey. I will re-read this travelogue again and again.
Morton's journey shows his love of the country, but he has very old-fashioned (and now unacceptable) views. He comes across as being superior to almost everyone, and his frequent comments on the women he meets certainly grated with me. In spite of this, his landscape descriptions are excellent.
Thiswas a great way to view England, however, it was a rather biasef view point. it endulges in history of england dating from pre Roman era to comparison of that modern day. thee are also comparison between pre industrial revolution and post ww1
Quaint, folksy ... and dated. Yawn.
What else can I say? A wonderful story and wonderful experiences...The Wayfarers dole, ruined abbeys, charming encounters with fascinating characters along the way. Wonderful stuff.
A must have for England Travelers.
A thoroughly enjoyable journey around England in 1926. H.V.Morton writes well and describes things so clearly you could almost be there. I look forward to reading many more of his books.
