https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/657034.Heartsick
Gretchen then ends up in prison.Archie is changed into a different person and is hooked on Vicodens.
Archie thinks Gretchen is beautiful and can not get his mind off of her.There are lots of missing girls and Archie is trying to find the killer that Gretchen is using to torture more victims that she wants killed.
The next victim Archie is close too and he has to be fast before she ends up dead.
Will these tortured victims ever come to an end?Most mystery series have two names of detectives, this mystery is different in the fact that Gretchen Lowell is the killer and Archie Sheridan is the cop detective to solve the case.
The book opens with Detective Archie Sheridan's moments-too-late realization that he's fallen into the clutches of a serial killer, the beautiful, sociopathic Gretchen Lowell who has tortured to death 199 people and plans to make Archie number 200.
As the current serial killer investigation team rushes to find the new murderer, Archie allows a young reporter, Susan Ward, to shadow him and write exclusives on the "hero cop" who has returned (addicted, as Susan soon learns) to the force.
I just looked up Chelsea Cain on amazon.com and there is an interview with her about  HeartSick  in which I learned that she has already written a second book in this series.
Plot Outline When I saw this was a cop and serial killer story, I immediately assumed we were going to have a  Silence of the Lambs  relationship.
As this occurs, we get begin to understand his current mental condition while we get a glimpse into the depraved and broken mind of Gretchen Lowell.Since we are talking about Gretchen, I have to say that she is one of the most interesting characters I have read in recent memory.
Multiple times I found myself saying that I couldn't see the character doing that and some of the elements felt contrived.
I started this series years ago but for some reason or another I never finished it, so I've made it my mission to read the whole series before the end of summer.
So naturally after I finished Sweetheart I went out a bought book one Heartsick and book 3 Evil At Heart and read them too.
An added bonus is that this book features an evil but brilliant female serial killer.
In Heartsick we find Archie returning to work 2 years after he was kidnapped and tortured for days but Gretchen Lowell, to hunt another serial killer.
It will also make you cringe slightly whenever you have to handle a bottle of drain cleaner for a while after reading.The main mystery is pretty conventional with a quirky female reporter getting pulled into a police investigation.
The author reportedly got tips on writing violence from Chuck Palanhuik, the author of Fight Club, and that may explain why the gore in the torture flashbacks seems more horrific than the rest of the book.To the author's credit, she avoids turning this into a Silence of the Lambs type of story, and the mystery of what happened while Archie was Gretchen's captive is what will keep you turning the pages rather than the weaker main story.
*****3.5 " BITCH IS CRAY-CRAY" STARS**** "I want them to know that I'm hurting you.I want them to know that and not be able to find you.And then I want to kill you."Gretchen,...I fucking loved your serial killer ass.
There are a lot of fucked up memories regarding her wrong doing---> THANK YOU Archie, but I wanted more.
Had the story solely been about Gretchen and Archie's 10 days of fantastic torture, this would be 5 stars...EASILY.
DON'T JUDGE me, Gretchen is that fucking badass..
You won't be able to touch another woman without thinking of me.
You'll think about me tonight, won't you?
The story never quite matched the promise of the blurb, but I did find the plot engaging and the characters the right mix of likeable and intriguing.
Worse still he still has to deal with Gretchen as she has spent the time feeding the police more names and locations of her victims, and she will speak to no one but Archie.
There was plenty going on to keep the attention of the reader between the investigation into the current killings, the flashbacks to Archie's time as a victim of Gretchen's, and with Susan's own story.
A doctor who is a serial killer kidnaps a detective who is working on the very case to catch her, the serial killer. He has been getting her help as a consultant on the case for months. The man who walked into her trap will never be the same man ever again. A great but gruesome story that goes back and forth in time until it all comes together at the end. Looking forward to the next book in the series.
Cain isn't a fantastic writer, she gets very caught up in over describing her characters, her environment and everything in between.
But while Cain isn't a fantastic writer, she does have some really strong core skills.
In Heartsick there is a relationship between a cop and a serial killer that is simply fantastic.
The back story is so strong that I often wondered while reading this book if it shouldn't have been the main story.
I found myself more interested in what would happen between the cop and the serial killer than who was the actual killer in the main story.
I find it difficult to rate this one.
It was like two books in one.
But the actual mystery, the case Archie is currently working on in the book, I found extremely weak and obvious.
I really laboured through those chapters, and I only did so because I wanted more of Gretchen.I will be checking out the next in the series in hopes that the mystery is stronger and am really looking forward to seeing where the Archie/Gretchen storyline goes from here, but my expectations have most definitely been lowered.3.5/5 Stars
Excellent story and writing, reading the whole series and loving it.
Anyone who knows me knows that I LOVE a good serial killer thriller novel. That's why this book made it onto my "favorite series firsts" shelf - it was freaking amazing!The characters, the build-up, the tension (sexual and otherwise) was intense. I loved every second of this book.Not to mention that the serial killer is bat-nuts cuckoo and vicious! Even as I review this I'm torn between wanting to read this one again or moving on to the next book in the series, Sweetheart.
FANTASTIC CRAZY BOOK!!!
It is actually that bad.While other novels before it have been guilty of wandering aimlessly (Tommyknockers) or being offensive (Darkly Dreaming Dexter), Heartsick is horrible on a far greater level: it is thinly veiled plagiarism.Cain has managed to almost directly rip off the plot to the Hannibal Lecter series by Thomas Harris.
Having retired after the incident, Graham is called back into duty to catch a new serial killer with Lecter's help, as Lecter feels he has a special connection to Graham.Here's the plot to Heartsick: the killer is already in jail, as they'd been helping the detective on her own case as a medical consultant.
I don’t read a lot of thrillers (they are usually not weird enough for my taste), but this book caught my eye at the used bookstore because I couldn’t remember ever having read a story about a female serial killer before.Archie Sheridan was kidnapped and tortured by Gretchen Lowell, a serial killer he had been chasing for the better part of ten years.
And some of it does get a bit predictable, by way of a far-fetched coincidence, but it’s still a lot of twisted fun.The relationship between Archie and Gretchen, and the strange hold she has on him, is what really drives the book forward; the current investigation seemed less interesting to me than the flashbacks to Archie’s captivity, and I would have really liked some more of those!
While it seems like this could be an all too obvious scene tactic, it actually does not backfire on Cain and works very well throughout the novel.While the plot was certainly one of the more original ones I’ve seen in a while, I figured out the ending about two thirds of the way through it (i.e. who the killer was and how each main character fit into the "big picture"), but that could just be a product of my line of thinking and/or current studies.
This was a long-time-later reread for me and since i'd forgotten most of the pertinent points, still managed to surprise.
The main plot leaves something to be desired, there's nothing particularly special about it, but the relationship between Archie and his murderer/saviour Gretchen Lowell is both novel and intriguing.
That blend of fear and desire, that closeness, was well written enough to make the reader feel genuinely uncomfortable, a real counterbalance to a rape/murder plot that ticks all the cliche boxes.
It's probably more like a 3.5 but I rounded up because even 10 years after it's publication, I still haven't read anything like Cain's disturbing killer/cop match up.
This was right up my alley.
Loved the complex relationship between Archie, a pill-popping, damaged cop, and his former tormentor Gretchen, the beautiful serial killer who let him live at the expense of her freedom.The sick and twisted chemistry between these two flawed characters is well done and what makes this so special.
It takes Stockholm Syndrome to a whole new level (a deeply disturbing one).
Susan's character was also intriguing, though her story takes a back seat to Archie's.
In fact, I thought all the characters were multi-layered and interesting, which is what earned this a fifth star.
I read thsi book for research on a book that I am writing... and this realy just blew me away!I mean goodness this is just so great!! Loved it! It did take time to get into the book...more like five chapters...but holy wow wow. . .once I got in it just blew my mind and captivated me! I really enjoyed the concept of both serial killers...the twist..the romane...the character development was outstanding.I'm purchasing the next book right now.
That case took a lot out of him as he spent a few years on it trying to catch Gretchen and he also had to endure some torture, not only physically, but emotionally and mentally along the way.
He can't seem to break free from her as he still takes the time to go see her in prison, which makes the book more intriguing as it gives the book more depth of just what Archie went through as he hunted her down.A reporter, Susan, wants to do a feature article on Archie and what he went through to capture Gretchen, so she kind of tags along with him while he tries to solve the murder case of the young women.
“Whatever you think this is going to be like," she whispers, "it's going to be worse.”  This surprised me alittle due to the fact on the front cover it states 'Up there in the same league as Silence of the Lambs' The main story was a little boring/slow at times, but the relationship between serial killer Gretchen Lowell and detective Archie Sheridan was interesting enough to keep me reading. This is read in different perspectives, generally Archie or Susans with a few chapters to separate the tw
This surprised me alittle due to the fact on the front cover it states 'Up there in the same league as Silence of the Lambs' The main story was a little boring/slow at times, but the relationship between serial killer Gretchen Lowell and detective Archie Sheridan was interesting enough to keep me reading.
The sleeping around with married men and her stupid decisions at times, i hated her.I understand after reading this novel why her character was the way she was, but i dont have to like it or respect it.
Love this series
For Susan, the After School Strangler hits close to home, for, years before, she’d actually gone to one of the murdered teenagers.And all the while, hunting for a new serial killer, Archie continues his visits with Gretchen in prison every Sunday.
You continue reading, as fascinated as you are repulsed, and even though you close the book, thinking there’s no way you can continue reading it, you’ll pick it right back up, wondering what else Gretchen does to Archie, wondering who the new serial killer is.
What a shock he got when instead of a man it turned out to be a gorgeous woman named Gretchen Lowell, a sociopath who manipulated Archie into thinking she could help him solve the murders only to capture him and torture him to death only to revive him.
Now Archie and his task force have a new task- find out who is killing brunette high school sophomores at the 3 local high schools.
This time the task force is working with a writer Susan Ward who is doing articles on Archie.
This is one of those few times where I've come away from a book feeling a bit, well, unsure.
On the one hand you have a female serial killer who is now incarcerated still having a relationship of sorts with her Stockholm Syndrome victim, Archie Sheridan, the main protagonist here.
I wasn't really that bothered, partly because tension was really lacking, it felt a bit lacklustre.
Hhmmm, not holding my breath with excitement, but I could be wrong!!The Gretchen Lowell, Archie Sheridan relationship was more interesting.
I just wasn't that excited.
*evil grin*My fascination with serial killers came back with Heartsick.
=(Archie and Gretchen have a very complicated relationship.
I loved Archie's POV.
He knows there's something wrong with him, that his life sucked, and his mixed feelings for Gretchen were abnormal.
The way Gretchen read her like an open book whe she visited at the prison is so enjoyable.
Hee.I am in love with how Gretchen's mind works!
I had an unbelievably good time reading it!
So in order for Archie to defeat Gretchen once and for all, he has to think and act like her.
Gretchen Lowell, the beautiful serial killer that Detective Archie Sheridan visits in prison every Sunday, isn't consulting on the current case he's working on.
Now he visits her once a week as she slowly reveals locations of her victims, and also because he's mentally dependent on her in a sick, destructive way.I wanted to give this book more than three stars, but the problem was that the plotline that revolved around Gretchen and Archie was far more interesting than the current-day serial killer mystery.
I spent almost 2/3 of the book dying for a scene where we get to see Archie actually visit Gretchen in prison.
this book is my kind of BOOK. I love the characters, i love how twisted the stories on it. I just hate the way the story written. It was pretty slow for me, and i need more about Gretchen Lowell. Well, i hope they explores her on the next book, which is already on my kindle.
I may have found a new favorite thriller author, right up there with Michael Robotham, Harlan Coben, and Brian Freeman. Chelsea Cain is one sick, twisted woman...and I think that's her best feature. Loved HEARTSICK and had that sad, sad feeling one has when one comes to the last page of a book that was simply superb. I'll be seeking out more of her work soon.
It was a good book but I wanted more of Gretchen, she was the reason I kept turning the pages. As other reviews have mentioned, the main story was weak and not as interesting as finding out what happened between Gretchen and Archie 2 years ago. I am hopeful for the next book. The blurb is intriguing enough to pull me in.
