https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123529.Shalako

This has to go on my favorite Louis L'Amour list! Shalako is definitely one of my favorites. :) The main character it (obviously) Shalako. He is AWESOME!! :D :) There is action and adventure through the whole book. Always fighting and surviving. I love when books are all action!
Meh. Hardly any of the characters were likable in this, sad to say, and there were several misogynist comments that really got my back up. Mr. L'Amour - what were you thinking??? Ugh.
I am a huge Louis L'Amour fan but this book was not one of my favorites. I thought the men were too typical in their arrogance and the romance was forced. I just didn't find this story to flow like his other stories. I expected more and/or better character development; there was a lot of promise but it just fell short for me. Sitka was a much better book as was Showdown at Yellow Butte.
Three Stars out of Four‘Shalako’ is a Western Novel, set in 1882, and is the story of Shalako Carlin, a mysterious, skilled and well-educated wanderer and part-time scout that encounters a hunting party made up of European aristocrats that has trespassed on the Apache reservation, and fallen under threat of attack.
While I enjoyed the book, as I have enjoyed everything I have read by the master of the Western Novel, L’Amour; this was not my favorite book he has written.
Read most of Louis Lamour's books when I was in my late teens and early twenties. They are important to me as they were some of the first books that got me into the reading habit. For that I shall be forever grateful
Shalako is coming up from Mexico when he finds the body of scout Jim Wells. A few minutes later he sees a white woman who he is forced to protect from Indians. Her party is hunting in Indian territory against the advice of the army. There is conflict within the party as well.
This tale of a brooding man alone who aids a group of Europeans stalked and hemmed in by Apaches after they push into New Mexico territory as an exploratory lark ultimately is just another bashed-out L'Amour Western with a hideous plot sinkhole in the early going.
Shalako decides to leave this group to their own devices for a time even as the Indian threat looms, and my, do things get slow and dire on the storytelling front.
Some folks are only described at all after they're dead!L'Amour's strength certainly is his feel for the West and not his prose, but even moderate literary expectations get beaten down by the dull make-work of these Europeans' tiresome interaction in the lead-up to an Indian attack.
DIFFERENT STROKES FOR DIFFERENT FOLKSAll I will say about this western don't judge a book by its cover.
This adventure contained a lot of historic history about the lives of those men who chose to make a home there.Shalako, is one of those men who fought in other countries wars and who followed the path of the warriors.
Today these men would be known as mercenaries..men who follow the war path.
Only allegiance they follow is the country they are fighting.
You will enjoy Shalako adventures and follow his path which brought him back to the U.S.A...I hope we read more about his adventures with Irina, his Welsh/Scottish aristocrat...ENJOY
A short family brunch, some snow on the ground and cold temps and not much else to do. So caught up with this old book from my shelf which was not read after I saw the movie back in the day. Kind of a modern type theme of people on a hunting trip out west confronted by the events and each other with a women as the prize for some and the quest for our main character. A good fun read as usual from L'Amour.
“Did you ever top out on a ridge in wild country and look off across miles where nobody had ever been before? Did you ever ride for a month across country without ever seeing another human being? Or even track of one? I have… and I want to again.”The main reason I loved this book is because of the descriptions. Made me feel like I was there, you know? Also, he describes the Apaches as the best warriors in the world. Accurate, man.
Shalako: A Desert StoryThis is a story of the end of the Apache story. It gives a great insight of the difficulty in fighting the Apache. I have grown reading stories of the Apache. This story puts you there in the middle of the fight, the agony, pain and fear of what will happen next. Can they make it, survive until help comes. Read the story and find out what happens.
Picked this up because I'm pretty sure I've read all the Sackett books at this point (sadly). It was well-written as usual, although I'm not sure I was particularly happy with Shalako's attitude towards women, but it was a frontier novel so there's that haha. Still a very enjoyable read!
Classic western novel, but the difference is L’Amour’s style captures both the beauty of the geographic western US as well as the culture of the people, the visitors and the Native Americans. Great story as well.
I never thought I would read a Louis L’Amour book but just finished a well written and exciting story of courage and strength taking place in 1882 in New Mexico/Arizona. You can feel the heat, the dust, the fear. A good read
Shalako is an Indian rain god, and given to a white man when every time he visited a tribe, it rained. He assists a party from England trapped in Indian country, with 40 braves determined to kill them all. Good story plot and interesting finish. Good read, and I recommend it.
Westerns aren’t normally my thing, but I was pretty surprised by how easily this book kept my attention. There was a good amount of adventure and the slightest hints at romance so, nothing to be mad about. I still can’t stand von Hallstatt even though he ended up being not the absolute worst.
Shalko is an exiting book about the wild west with Indians and the U.S. Army. He is a daring man and had something that made women love him. he protects and is a good shot. Great book.
32nd book in the series written in 1962. The best book so far. You can see the Author's skills increase!
This is one of my least favorite Louis L'Amour novels.
It is a repetition of one of Mr. L'Amour's recurring themes: lone man is an intrepid adventurer and reluctant but masterful gunfighter who has lived with Indians and learned their ways and the ways of the land and who meets a woman who just might be strong enough of character and beautiful enough that he might just finally settle down.
The language is a little stodgy at times but my real trouble with the novel is the oft repeated belief that a woman's purpose in life is to serve a man.
Really good story, good guys, bad guys believable. No weenie PC crap. What? Thought I did that. Too complicated, I quit.I I I Hi I I I I I I I.
Shalako, written by Louis L'Amour and published in 1962, is a classic western novel.
The main protagonist, Shalako, is essentially what everyone epitomizes the hero of the Old West to be.
Shalako's strengths are in how it over dramatizes all of the best parts of the Wild West.
Romance, hostile Native Americans, crooks, shoot outs, the desert, and a lonesome, mysterious hero.If you love a book that doesn't require you to use your brain that much, but has a classic Old West story of violence, wilderness, romance, and poetic ridiculousness, than this is the book for you.
No sound but the wind, the creak of his saddle, the hoofbeats of his horse...
to a bullet all targets were anonymous." p14 Lady Irina (incorrect to say Carnavon) wandered away from proud Prussian Baron Frederick's party.
L'Amour's varied career included pro boxer and officer, so bare-knuckle, wrestling, military tactics, and shoot-outs always feel real (as much as I'd know, never having fought or shot anyone), as does the harsh scenery, whether the heat of day or cool of night in sparse deserts or heavy forests.
(Spoilers:Bosky, unclean of body and mind, takes all their valuables, ammunition, supplies, horses and teamsters, sneaks off when Apaches ambush the traitors.
I felt some actual disappointment as certain characters died.There were two things I did not like about this book.
There were a lot of times when there was a scene transition but no break in the text.
Just some gaps in the text to break it up would have been nice.The other problem was around the fight scenes.
I had difficulty drawing the fight scenes in my mind which is important in this style of book.For a genre that tends to have good guys and bad guys it was nice to see some main characters who fall in between.
I enjoy a good Western from time to time, and L'Amour's are always good.
I enjoyed seeing a character who is okay with walking away when people don't want his help, but he doesn't wander far.
I found L'Amour's treatment of the Apaches to ring true to history rather than the movies (which was nice), and I really enjoyed the complexity of relationships.
The movie version changes a lot of elements, and honestly, as a story, it wasn't nearly as impactful.
It does have Sean Connery, so that makes up for a lot, but still.
I may read this one again in another 30+ years (the time-span between my first and second reading of this book), but it definitely wasn't my favorite Louis L'Amour novel. I couldn't get past the "perfectly rugged yet incredibly desirable" hero character. And the line near the end of the story about him speaking Apache was enough to make me roll my eyes. Just too forced and predictable. L'Amour is certainly one of my favorite authors, but he fell pretty short of his usual mark of excellence with this book.
Interesting quick L'Amour read. Nice cast of characters, most well-fleshed out, significant character development for the Prussian Baron which I really enjoyed reading- it was one of the high points of the book to me. Shalako shows high contrast, perhaps too much, between his past and his current hard-edged, blunt self. He wasn't my favorite L'Amour protagonist. Lovely descriptions of the land, nothing profound, but poetic in their simplicity and candor. Satisfying conclusion.
Good book but the entire book is about people fighting Indians and I really hate hearing the details about an Indian fight. Sure people get shot and die. The Indians don't attack at night...etc. Don't laugh but if you've read one Indian fight you've read them all! I know that sounds dumb but it is my opinion and since I wrote this review...there you go. I do enjoy the smarmy man getting showed up by someone more street wise.
Again, problems with the female character, but overall enjoyable. Some arrogant European guy shows up to show the Americans how to deal with Indians, and Shalako shows up to teach them how to treat Apaches with more respect. It also had one of my favorite lines from any L'Amour novel: "I've never seen any man [Shalako] value sleep more; or get less of it himself."
I liked this book it wasnt to bad. Him and his brothers when on a long trip driving cattle . They wanted to get there cattle fat so they could sell them . But some bad guys stampeded there heard so they had to round them up . It took them all day so they didnt get there cattle to the market on time.
