https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386336.Annie_John
لم استطع أن أكملهاهناك فارق كبير بين أن تروي أو تحكي حكاية، وأن تثرثر، وحتى منتصف العمل تقريباً لا توجد أي أحداث أو فكرة واضحة، مجرد فتاة عادية تحكي حياتها العادية وتصف عائلتها العادية ومدرستها العادية وأصدقائها العاديين، وبشكل ملئ بالتفاصيل وملل للغاية
The central protagonist of the novel is Annie John.
This became for me an added point of interest.Annie John's close and loving relationship with her mother is evocatively and beautifully drawn.
Mother daughter relationships and the process of maturation are the central themes of the book.
Annie John is a maturing young girl of any race, she just happens to have skin the color black.
I like the reality of Annie John's life.
I like the book, and that is why I have given it three stars.
Jamaica Kincaid is a good storyteller, her style of writing is simple, touching and full of lifea story of Annie john, an intelligent young girl growing up in Antigua.her life from the age of ten until seventeen, a transition from childhood to adolescencethe misbehavior at the beginning of her teens and the changes in her relationship with her mother and her friends it's a growing up novel, showing moral, intellectual and emotional developments of Annie's characterKincaid also draw a picture of social, educational and spiritual life of Antigua in the colonial period
At times I would no longer hear what it was she was saying; I just liked to look at her mouth as it opened and closed over words, or as she laughed.
(view spoiler)[While it widens progressively, Annie's story parallels her mother's (hide spoiler)] Meanwhile, she really does grow up, still deeply rooted in her world.
However, her mother clearly stands 'between me and the rest of the world' when she forbids her to play with marbles, or calls her a slut when she sees Annie simply talking to a group of boys.
It’s a quick read;the thoughts of a very curious young girl obsessed with death and slowly taking in all the nuances that surround her, who becomes a highly intelligent adolescent who is uninterested in most things.Annie is very much attached to her mother but finds, with the onset of puberty, that things will never be the same again, and she becomes resentful.
Annie goes from idolizing her mother to almost hating her.This book was set in colonial Antigua and it’s obvious that Kincaid didn’t much care for the British colonizers.
I love the wonderful strangeness of Kincaid’s descriptions, like this one depicting Annie’s first observation of a burial:“I did not know it was the cemetery until one day when I said to my mother that sometimes in the evening, while feeding the pig, I could see various small, sticklike figures, some dressed in black, some dressed in white bobbing up and down in the distance.
Its eight chapters could almost work as short stories, and Kincaid’s style often involves paragraphs that go on for a page or more, with few dramatized scenes.This book is a coming-of-age story of a girl in Antigua, beginning when she’s 10 and ending when she’s 17.
More than anything else the book focuses on Annie’s relationship with her mother; they are extremely close during Annie's childhood, but as she becomes a teenager they begin to fight constantly.
And so wonderful we found it that, almost every time we met, pinching by her, followed by tears from me, followed by kisses from her were the order of the day.
Annie John is growing up in the mid-20th century on the island of British Antigua, in a world handmade by her parents and neighbors.
Her bed, her linens, her clothes; the foods that she eats, the baths and medicines she takes are carved, sewn, cooked, and concocted by the personal stewards of her life.This book doesn’t “go places”; instead, it hones in on the mix of first loves (mothers, best friends, mysterious strangers, marbles) impressions, and confusions that adults often forget they ever had.
Three and one half stars.
i cried multiple times reading this book.
this is some heavy shit because it's so fucking real.
everyone wants to be real and shit but this shit here is the truth.
the sadness of it is long forgotten.
to not be able to curl in your mother's arms and have the entire world be just fine is an unbearable pain.
we all fucking grew up.
how fucking sad is that.
i miss the way my mother smelled when she got out of the shower.
this book is incredible.
i never thought that i would miss watching my mother do her daily chores so much.
3+ Jamaica Kincaid is a fine writer and I appreciated (from a distance) these vignettes about a young girl growing up in Antigua.
The ambivalence of a grown child's love for his parents.I have a nephew, well-mannered and intelligent, now 20 years old.
She lays in her bed for the last time, looking at the familiar things inside their house she's determined not to go back to again, ever, but without telling any of her parents about it:"The house we live in my father built with his own hands.
The bed I am lying in my father built with his own hands.
I also grew up in an island, with my parents and siblings, and left it to study in the city.
at the heart of the book, kincaid looks at the deep, complicated nature of a mother-daughter relationship.
initially a paradise (well, once all the death stuff is out of the way, heh) - the doted on only child, living in an island paradise - the warmth and comfort of the familiar and trusted soon dissolve, as annie john matures, and her mother's behaviours become inconsistent.
apart from the illness, annie john also seems to have quite a fugue going on.
Anyway, the gist of what I wrote - unfortunately, you will never get the whole thing, and it was brilliant, I tell you - was that this would've been a much better book if the main character Annie was just a little likeable.
Remember that part where she meets a former teacher who had the audacity to tell the students that she liked all of them equally?
So of course Annie has to ignore her.
I mean, who would ignore Annie?
Surely not I!Also, the endless references about how Annie was actually much smarter than the other dumb, dumb girls didn't make me think about how smart Annie was.
The chapters were originally published as stories in The New Yorker, so perhaps that is why the narrative jumps back and forth in spots.
The is the story of a girl's painful transition from childhood to adolescence (from age 10 to 16), which is not a linear process (and which is not often the subject of literature).
The real drama of the book is the way Annie John's intense love of her mother is transformed into a kind of hatred and how she wavers back and forth between longing to be her mother's little girl again and resenting her mother's interference in her life.
Wow!
Kincaid remembers and depicts the conflicts of only-childhood, both internal and external, with a vividness and absorption as powerful as youth itself.
These stories transported me back to my own childhood.
The security, the peace, the unconditional love, which leaves one bewildered when it is later marred by jealousy, anxiety, hormones and the compulsion to assert one's own will and test invisible boundaries.
Kincaid's voice drew me in gently, firmly and I swam in the poetry of her words, the images of Antigua beautifully foreign, but the emotional terrain all too identifiable.
It's a short novel - I burn through it in less than three hours - but there's hardly a wasted word.
A young girl's coming-of-age story that doesn't dip into clichés or gets sidetracked, but sticks to the shifting bonds between mother and daughter, between childhood friends, between what you thought you understood at 10 and what you cannot voice at 18, building to a quiet finale that's all the more heartbreaking because it doesn't offer any simple resolutions.
My first Kincaid, probably not my last.
I have never been able to appreciate Jamaica Kincaid the way others do. I try and try and try and just find her work, okay. This book, I actually really didn't care for much(1.5 stars) because the whole time I was reading all I can think of was how spoiled this child is. I suppose we all go through that sh*tty phase when we are are younger but gawd I don't want to read about it. Sorry mom and dad.
The first time I read it, I found it to be rather frustratingly elliptical: my rationalist preteen brain wanted Kincaid to spell out in clear rational terms, like a mathematical or scientific formula, the exact chemical chain-reactions that caused the deterioration of Annie's relationship with her mother.
In the bottoms of our hearts, we are irrational, animalistic, emotion-driven.One of my close friends read this book at the same time I first did, and she absoultely hated it -- hated it largely because the titular narrator-protagonist Annie John is not a "likable" character.
Annie John is, in a way, Jamaica Kincaid's amazing story "Girl" fleshed out as a full novel.
The novel also uses one of my favorite literary techniques: rather than tell a linear story where each event causes the next, the story is broken up into shorter narratives where events are arranged by association: a story about an important friendship with another girl, then a separate story about getting in trouble at school, with the timeframes of the two overlapping somewhat.
Follows Annie John as she journeys through childhood and works her way through adolescence.
Regardless of her mother’s intentions, Annie becomes distant from her mother and their relationship is heavily strained by the end of the narrative.
The story takes place in Antigua, a small island that was overcome by Britain and still holds many allegiances at the time of the narrative.
Many of Annie’s disagreements with her mother can be connected to the political conflicts between the island and Britain, giving the reader a more dimensional reading with a strong foundation in historical events.
I really identified with, or at least found very real and palpable, the emotions and thoughts of this young girl as she grew up and tried to form her own identity, especially separate from her mother.
I'm sure a lot of people will disagree with me.
Annie got out of bed determined to leave her home and family and country - sure, many young people find themselves this way.
But her hatred, bitterness, and condescension towards these things, especially her raw hatred for her mother, were unbelievable to me in a normal person.
Jamaica Kincaid has a very honest writing style -at times to a painful extent. This is another book I've read for my Caribbean lit class. This short novel evokes that sort of squirmy recognition of all of those adolescent feelings we've long tried to forget, and succeeds in painting an truthful portrait of the mother-daughter relationship almost all women can relate to. I can't really tell you what's wrong with this book, but I can say that although it is a quick and enjoyable read, it's also easy to forget, and so it only gets three stars.
This is probably the worst book I have analyzed during my freshman year in college as a literature student which gives no broader understanding about anything and lacks any kind of reason to take your time with it. Totally hated it.
How is it that I never read this whole thing before? Surely I've read excerpts? Or, have I just read "Girl" so many times that I extrapolated all of Kincaid's voice from it?
Recensione: http://bit.ly/2qaG0zL
“Facing the Dark Side of Adlosence”  Despite the cover’s implication that this book is about a little girl, this is Not reading suitable for young children.
Impressing her teachers with her quick mind she is immediately noticed by her new classmates as well, but they gradually realize her penchant for mischief, which increases to a general defiance of authority.
Annie also wrestles with conflicting beliefs about Black Magic; a terrifying protracted illness of both mind and body; and her confusion about the sexuality of her older father, who seems indifferent to her.
I didn't pick this book thinking it was interesting, I actually thought It was kinda dumb, and just wanted to read it to get it over with so i could get back to my winter break.
As I read I was hoping the book would describe some parts that I didn't understand, like why there was so much detail about how she didn't think people she knew would die.
In the end though I can say that I personally thought the writing was really good.
I do recommend this book to people who don't get bored easy, and are looking for a good book to read.
This coming-of-age story follows a young girl, Annie, as she grows up on the island of Antigua.
Annie wasn't a likeable character, though I suppose few young teenage girls are likeable in real life.
So in that way Kincaid's portrayal of the girl felt very real, but at the same time, it's hard to love such a selfish and often cruel character.
Kincaid has said in interviews that she never meant for Annie's character to be interpreted as gay, but at the same time, the relationships feel more like crushes than friendships.
As a child Annie idolizes her mother, but as she grows older she begins to hate her.
Kincaid's main focus is the transformation of her protagonists relationship with her mother, dealing to some extent with her changing sense of her place in her island village and with her school friends.
The relation necessarily has to change, but at what rate and to what extent is pretty difficult to negotiate.The difficulty I had with the novel is primarily that I didn't get a clear sense of the psychology of the processes of change that were occurring with Annie John.
Of course, it is entirely plausible and perhaps even likely, that this is closer to the truth of this experience than the more detailed introspective coming-of-age novels.
This coming of age story results in you disliking the main character Annie John.
Her dislike for her mother is stemmed from her emotional greed, constantly craving love and affection from her mother.
However, Jamaica Kincaid's portrayal of the relationship between a mother and daughter was relatable in some places, reminding me of certain times in my own teenage years.
It was a good book and easy read, I just wish Annie was not so unlikeable, but i'm pretty sure I also was a self-absorbed annoying teenager too when growing up so I sympathise somewhat.
