https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43893.Naked_Empire
Well after almost 15 years, my relationship with the Sword of Truth series is over.
Maybe someday when I can look myself in the eye again…but right now the series can just fuck off and die.
We’d been together a long time and I thought it was the right thing to do.
Since finishing this over the weekend, I’ve taken a few days to get my thoughts together and think I can finally describe the series without having it go all angry.
I don’t plan on thinking about this series anymore.
nah, just kidding.What we have here is as follows:Richard acquaints himself with a goat and not in a good way.He's brought democracy to the Old World, so he feels he should vacation some.He takes his troupe on a walkabout, and stumbles upon some hippies that are immune to magic.Unbeknownst to him, the greatest villain of all is after him.THE GOAT-LOVER!Forget Darken Rahl and his murdering hordes.Forget Comrade Jagang and his Apparatchiks.We have a badass here.In fact, he's so badass that Richard develops a tummy ache.Like a wounded fawn, he is taken care of by Kahlan and Nicci.
Alas, nothing exciting happens.And then ...
The ongoing villain is barely addressed, the introduced villain is a mere toady, who is not really threatening at all at any point, and the new characters are simply cardboard cut outs, devoid of anything entertaining or interesting.Faith of the Fallen was a good book, and it's philosophy is an interesting one, good to discuss, even though I don't personally buy it.
I was hoping that Goodkind would develop this philosophy further, and really take on some of the criticisms and explore other, conflicting ideas, with the same elegance and feeling from the sixth installment..
Terry's writing is getting annoying.
If you have plowed through the series thus far as I am and up to this one, get ready to recap everything over and over...
We learn once or twice again how Richard came to be where and what he is now..
how he came to his beliefs...
and on...The best is when Terry's feeling especially recaperrific...
It reminds her of the time........(pages of recap going by..
no joke!)......and now where were we?It's annoying.Oh!
And when he's not feeling recaperrific, Richard is on his soapbox for pages on end delivering speeches about his moral clarity.
Good grief!We get it Terry!
This book was practically one long Richard is right, everyone else is wrong storyline. Goodkind seriously needs to stop writing that kind of nonsense. His sister went from a very interesting main character to a sidekick.While portions of the storyline was still interesting, Goodkind needs to start providing secondary titles to his books so you know which agenda he's going to pound this time. This one could have been titled: Naked Empire, or Why Pacifists are Evil. I get tired when his agenda keeps interfering with the stories.
Let's not even get into the total absence of geography, the extremely forced motif of "hey I haven't seen you in three books oh shit gotta go bye," the banality of what is supposed to be emotional resonance, the transparency of the plot twists, the weird, weird obsession with people raking their hands through their hair (silken oils?) and tails wagging in a blur and describing everyone's hair color and eye color over and over again, into one situation after another where "oops my magic doesn't work," with the utter and unmitigated catastrophe that is the writing style, with the actual, in this real world, in my belief, essential moral equivalence of D'Hara and the Imperial Order, with it all.I will see this through to the end, but these books are my Agiel.
Goodkind is finding his stride in lecturing us on the failings of our own ideals here (if that is they don't agree with his) funny I thought I was reading an epic fantasy.... give it 1.5 instead of 2 stars. Look hard you might find a story between the diatribes.
I hate this book with a fiery passion, and I don't need it hanging over me, asking to be reread and reviewed20% done...You know what, after rereading Pillars of Creation this last week, the beginning of Naked Empire is actually pretty good (comparatively).
Oh, I know it takes a steep nosedive not much further from where I am, but the beginning is actually far better written than the previous book.
There has to be a balance between all of the ranting, and, you know, ANY-FUCKING-THING ELSE!!!80% done...Something that has always annoyed me about this series is that Goodkind often describes Richard as "Patient, but intolerant." Okay...
I was driven on by the plot but really, really hated the philosophy that Goodkind espoused in this book.What a long way Richard has come from the lowly but noble woodsguide who seemed to cry at least every other chapter of "Wizard's First Rule." Goodkind has twisted his own characters almost out of recognition.In this book Richard almost loses his "gift" because he believes that to balance the violence of being a war wizard he has to be a vegetarian.
Of course he recognizes that his killing is justified therefore he denial of meat is a denial of that justice and the virtue of his gift.HOWEVER, when Richard stopped liking meat it wasn't a choice he justed hated the taste of meat and cheese.
Ok, maybe this book could have been decent without the random multi-page-lengthed spiels about choosing your own life, and without the horrible plot devices (which I guess have actually been around the entire series, but they were oh so noticeable this time), and without the random moral posturing Goodkind does, but then the book would probably only have 3 pages in it.It doesn't help that Richard, the man who is always right, the moral paragon of Goodkind, the hero of the people, decides that it is a good idea to massacre peaceful protesters.
I read the rest of Terry Goodkind's books a few years ago, and wasn't sure that I could just jump back into the series, but I had no trouble picking up where he left off.
I remember when I was reading the rest of the books one after the other, that it bothered me a bit that he would keep reminding the reader what had happened in previous books, thinking to myself, "well, I just read it, get on with the story!" But now I appreciated those little tidbits about previous story lines!
I always love a good fantasy book, and Terry Goodkind doesn't disappoint.
Naked Empire is the eighth book of the series.
For a book full of action the tiny bit of romance doesn't ruin the story and make it cheesy.
The love between the two main characters gets them into more trouble and drags the story farther along.
When the main character Richard gets sick they must do what they can to find a cure.
(hide spoiler)] If you loved Terry Goodkind's other books in the series you are bound to love this one.
I like this book the best for the process Goodkind describes in leading an extremely ignorant and evil (and thus vulnerable) group from "We need you [Richard] to save us" to thinking for themselves, recognizing value and individual liberty, and defending themselves. That's a difficult process, and one worth examining in detail to similarly educate people in our world. And also it gives the "no meat" taboo the heave-ho (after belief in it causes its share of trouble), which I always thought a bit odd and superstitious (but didn't want to question another man's rules of magic).
I've started reading the series and now I can't stop reading. I liked this book better than the last one. By the end of it, I couldn't put it down! I would say way better than the Pillars of Creation, but not as good as Faith of the Fallen. But, still one of my favs. I hope the next book isn't too tragic.
If you want an author to tell you in no uncertain terms what is right and what is wrong, then this book is for you.
I LOVED this book!But let's get a bit critical first...It being the first novel where we get to see Richard's major character changes in action igsince his inner struggles in Faith Of The Fallen...
I understand, COMPLETELY, why he would've felt that way, but even his signature patience and understanding whilst seeking truth seemed tainted with superiority.It annoyed me more that I could feel that underlying eye switch bubbling up in me towards Richard, whom I've never felt acted unfairly to others thus far, and love just as much as Kahlan does (Well, maybe that's a bit too far-fetched.
There were parts in the Naked Empire that nearly drove me insane with impatience and frustration (case in point the Bandakars and their misguided notions of peace) I have to hand it to Richard and Kahlan, they actually tried to talk sense with these guys, I would have gladly clubbed them all on their heads.I usually find the secondary plots tiresome and can't really be bothered to care about them, but this time they were fun and I found myself getting very involved with the characters concerned (Zedd, Adie and Nathan in particular)We also saw some old characters return and I was very happy to see them.
This book is great, because the warrior is very smart and cunning, I would like be like him.
I read the first 6 books of the Sword in Truth series years ago and LOVED them.
I missed Kahlan and Richard as the main protagonists and it just didn't work for me, so I never got around to reading the rest of the series.Now that they're all out, I figured it was time to finish up - I owed it to the first books ;)And with Naked Empire Goodkind got back on the horse.
I'm now utterly immersed in the universe and wish I had time to reread the rest of the series.That's not to say it didn't have its flaws.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
I couldn't help but feel frustrated as I read further and further into this book.
I felt like I was reading the same thing again and again, and though I'm aware that's one of Goodkind's known characteristics, it became almost unbearable in this story.
I found myself skipping over or only briefly skimming large paragraphs in the last 300 pages.Also, if I never have to read again about Nicholas shivering with delight from the feel of his hair oils gliding against the palm of his hand, it will be too soon.
There's something so wonderful about a plot so complex it truly needs 700 pages to work itself out. I appreciate that when reading Goodkind's novels I not only learn the history, culture, and customs of the main characters but also of each character whose path crosses that of Richard and Kahlan. Perhaps I won't wait 2 years to read the next book!
The end became very preachy on anti-pacifism, which got old really fast.
"Ci sono momenti in cui l'unica scelta è agire immediatamente, ma anche allora bisogna usare la ragione, ricorrendo all'esperienza e a tutto ciò che si sa".Questo ottavo volume, che inizia nel punto esatto in cui finisce il settimo, è molto più crudo e violento dei precedenti...
e forse è anche per questo se mi è sembrato un tantino migliore!Tutto il libro ruota attorno alle vicende del popolo del Bandakar che, millenni prima, venne esiliato dal D'Hara perché immune alla magia.
I can’t remember if there has ever been one where I have been so impatient for the next book every single time I have finished one and am just grateful that I have joined the library here so I can have access to them.Naked Empire sees Richard and Kahlan journeying further into the Old World, not through a matter of choice but through one of necessity.
If things are going well for one set of people, then something would be going wrong with the others.I can’t remember the last time a book put a smile on my face the way this one did.
well, let's just say his suddenly being okay with it seemed odd given that he gave up eating meat and even cheese because these foods began tasting odd to him.
I know Jennson was bonded with Betty and a connection to her mother but when time is of an essence and dangers abound on the journey, having a goat tagging along didn't seem the best of choices.
Of course, if Betty were mine and like family, I'd have been covorting hither and yon with her as well rather than leaving her behind when I didn't know anyone or trust many and would have no idea if I'd be able to return for her.
(hide spoiler)]On the other hand, after all the tension and panic, and wondering how Richard was going to survive both poison and his gift going awry, I feel somewhat let down that the solution was (view spoiler)[believing in himself, and then his gift could create its own poison antidote.
(hide spoiler)] It felt like while I was going "I have no idea how they're getting out this," Goodkind was wondering the same thing, and so when he had painted Richard into a corner, he just decided to walk back over the paint and say "War wizard, deal with it." I feel like he's better than that, and there could have been a better, more creative solution.
This is more of a series review: I've seen a lot of negative posts, because the author pours his beliefs into his writings.
Liberals: the entire news media, and thus, seemingly the whole world is willing to tell you that black is white.
If you're going to spend hours reading an author's works, wouldn't you rather read something that makes you think for yourself?Even if you don't agree with his insights, he's drawn some disturbing parallels, that could be enlightening.As Goodkind points out, we live in a world where saying something is true & spreading the message (i.e. facebook) makes it true.
One of Kalhan's quotes about them really defined the book for me "Worse, she already knew that there were bitter people devoted to the morbid ideal of the presutural cannibalism of appeasement that they defined as peace." (Chapter 51, Page 573).
Throughout history it's never worked and it became dreadfully apparent when reading about these people who knew how to do nothing else but to be a door mat.We also got Wizard's Eighth Rule "Deserve Victory" (Chapter 61, page 626).
But it's not one of my favourite rules.I really enjoyed this book and I believe that anyone who like's Terry Goodkind's writing will enjoy it as well.
While all the Sword of Truth series has little to no time between books and the series is essentially a single story, Naked Empire gives the biggest sense of time laps between any other book.
Since Pillars of Creation focused on Jensen's story we do have a laps of events for Richard and Kahlan.
For this book Richard is trapped between so many external and internal struggles with little time and so far away from any help.
Without spoilers, if you have not figured it out yet, all these trials Terry Goodkind throws at Richard have a purpose to ether solve the problem at hand or give him an experience to help with a future problem.
