https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20820994-i-ll-give-you-the-sun
I was literally walking around my place, thinking about this book and feeling like I was in this bubble by myself, like I was so deeply inside my mind I was actually out of touch with reality!Look, I don't know who made me such a cheesy person and also such a romantic person and such a soft mess so full of feelings but I want a huge metal box to slam down on them and a padlock around the box and then the box falling to the bottom of the sea thank you very much.
But while I appreciate that there are some good aspects to this book like the complex characters and the frank portrayal of teen sexuality in both a heterosexual girl and a homosexual guy, the style, the endless bloody metaphors and the way it became heavy on the romance...
I guess it's a certain type of reader who will fall in love with this prose - in short: I am not that type of reader.I am the kind of person who forges strong emotional connections with characters; or at least I do if the book is working its magic.
SO FREAKIN GOOD. This just became one of my favorite books of the year, and one of my favorite contemporary novels of all time! It was funny and romantic and touching and so beautifully written! I loved it. I literally just finished it and I already want to reread it. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
Dad forges on, oblivious.andWe're sprinting at the speed of light when the ground gives way and we rise into the air as if racing up stairs.and he captions every scene as though it is a painting:PORTRAIT: Jude Braiding Boy After Boy into Her HairPORTRAIT, SELF-PORTRAIT: Gray Noah Eating Gray Apples on Gray GrassPORTRAIT, SELF-PORTRAIT: Brother and Sister on a Seesaw, Blindfoldedwhich can be cloying after a while if that kind of thing irritates you, but once you get past the first couple of instances, you just kind of roll with it and it didn't personally bother me overmuch.

LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH. IT MOVED ME SO MUCH IN SO MANY WAYS <3
Creo que la escritura de Jandy Nelson es la razón principal por la que este libro me pareció tan arrollador.
La relación entre Noah y Brian me tenía fangirleando, llorando y gritando de a ratos, y la de Jude con Oscore simplemente me quitaba el aliento, ese amor que tenían ellos dos era tan fuerte, que hasta lo sentía palpable.Además me gusta demasiado que el libro tiene su razón de llamarse "Te daría el sol", uff, lo recuerdo y se me pone la piel de gallina.
“The sun, stars, ocean, trees, everything, I gave it all up for you.”Todo dentro de este libro me tiene enamorada.
And I understandThe writing style is as artistic as the characters and the whole book drips with prose.
Maybe one day I’ll be able to explain my deeply personal love for this book.
How this book made me feel known and helped me process the world around me.But all I can say is this: It reignited my love of reading.
(Noah seems to be the fan-favorite, but I will defend Jude to the death.)I have no artistic ability whatsoever, but the relationship both characters have with art was astounding.
But because I have a separate, personal love for this book.
'maybe some people are just meant to be in the same story.' i try not to have any regrets in life, but i do regret that i read this book too quickly and that it ended before i was emotionally and mentally ready. a book like this is meant to be cherished, to be savoured - but i was incapable of putting this down. i dont think ive ever read such transformative writing, it gave the story such a lyrical feel to it. i needed every word, every image, every emotion, every feeling. even if it did leave
'maybe some people are just meant to be in the same story.'
i try not to have any regrets in life, but i do regret that i read this book too quickly and that it ended before i was emotionally and mentally ready.
a book like this is meant to be cherished, to be savoured - but i was incapable of putting this down.
i dont think ive ever read such transformative writing, it gave the story such a lyrical feel to it.
i needed every word, every image, every emotion, every feeling.
even if it did leave my heart a devastating wreck in the process.
(That’s both a reference to this book and an illustration of how difficult it will be to put my intense adoration of it into, like, a semi-coherent review.) (Sidenote: I’ve never strived for anything higher than semi-coherent.)Let’s start with the characters.
God, do I love the people in this book.
It’s like Jandy Nelson read my mind and made this book to check all my boxes.
That’s the discussion of fate and ~true love~ in this book, neither of which I believe in and both of which I pretty consistently find dumb in like, every YA contemporary ever.
God, I love this book.
I've read this book for the third time now and it is still as magical as ever.
My heart was aching and floating whilst I was reading it.
I cannot put into words what and how this book makes me feel!
My heart exploded about a hundred times whilst reading it and I cannot express how much I loved it!
I was gushing throughout the entire thing, internally weeping, because it was just perfect.
Utter perfection.
It's the type of book you want to shove into everyone's hands, urging them to read it, so they can relish in its beauty.
This was the perfect book to finish on my birthday. I adored Jandy Nelson's first book, and didn't think I could love this one just as much!
Review originally posted at Mostly YA LitI don't think I can properly review this book without just throwing flails and gifs and barbaric yawps into the air. It's that lovely, that exquisite that any review I write will just pale in comparison to the writing in the book. That said...I want you to read this book, so I have to try.P.S. I borrowed all the quote gifs from Penguin Teen, because who doesn't want to see more of that gorgeous cover?!    I'll Give You The Sun is probably the most literar
And what makes the book even more complex is how each of those reveals follows the themes of breaking and remaking, of splitting apart and coming together that shape the characters and the novel.The characters and relationships between them are full and clearly realized.
I already mentioned the premise of the book, but let me just say that Noah and Jude are probably the most flawed and complex teen characters I've read EVER.
You guys know how I feel about insta-love (and one of them is a bad boy!)...but somehow, Jandy Nelson's writing can break all my rules and make me believe.
Hauling them in as we make choices, good and bad, as we screw up, step up, lose our minds, find our minds, fall apart, fall in love, as we grieve, grow, retreat from the world, dive into the world, as we make things, as we break things.” This novel started out weird and confusing and colourful.
It was still weird and colourful, but not confusing anymore.I fell in love with the characters, all of them.
I normally have difficulties picturing a book's characters, like really seeing them in front of me, but not this time.
But this key character proves to have dark secrets of her own, secrets that affect the twins deeply.There is much to love about I’LL GIVE YOU THE SUN.
Don’t get me wrong, I loved Jandy Nelson’s prose, which felt wonderfully familiar to me, but I sure would not have minded to be able to read this book a tiny bit faster.I’m actually glad I haven’t read this book sooner, because studying the history of art has enabled me to pick up on the artist and painting references.
5 stars  I’ll Give You the Sun is different than any other book I’ve read. The writing style (it was lyrical to me), the story line, that themes, the characters, they were all excellent. There were a few things that I didn’t love, but overall it was a memorable and brilliant story that deserves 5 stars. Also, I listened to the audio version of this one and the narration was fantastic. Twins Jude and Noah are both artists. So is their mother. This story is written in dual POV, from past to presen
There were a few things that I didn’t love, but overall it was a memorable and brilliant story that deserves 5 stars.
We get the perspective of 13 year old Noah in the past, and 16 year old Jude in the present.
Noah and Jude are so different.
When we first get to the present chapters, I’m so curious as to what happened with Noah and Jude.
I didn’t love every single thing about this book, but it was so well written, so powerful and so stunning that there was no way I could give it less than 5 stars.
OH MY GOSH this book was so beautiful. It was a little bit of a slow start for me, but wow. I loved everything about it.
But when you do get used to it you see just how amazingly well written this book is.One of my favourite things was the way the story was told from different point of views from years apart!
It kept me gripped as I desperately needed to find out how it would all end.
The book ties together in such a beautiful way and it has such a fantastic ending that overloads you with a vast amount of emotions!!I will never forget this book.
Finished my first book for the BookTube-a-Thon!This was definitely one of my favorites of the year.I honestly love everything about it. The writing was so beautiful... The way it switched between young Noah and older Jude's perspectives. The love stories, the art. Literally everything. Read this book. It's so beautiful and now I just want to read every single thing by this author.
DNF after 116 pages.I feel like I'm probably going to get shot for this, considering the (currently) 4.30 rating and plethora of rave reviews on Goodreads...but I honestly really did not like this book. I made it to page 116 before I had to give up because I just couldn't take it anymore. I kept hoping that it would get better or that I was missing something that would somehow finally click — but it never did. This book is just  not for me .First of all, the chapters are so long. I don't think I
DNF after 116 pages.I feel like I'm probably going to get shot for this, considering the (currently) 4.30 rating and plethora of rave reviews on Goodreads...but I honestly really did not like this book.
I don't think I've ever read a YA book that had chapters this long.
Normally I'm a fan of unique and different writing styles (i.e. the Shatter Me series by Tahereh Mafi), but I could not stand how this book was written.
If there's nothing going on and the protagonist is unlikable...it's hard for me to be able to like that kind of book.
Una historia maravillosa, perfectamente narrada, sin una sola frase de relleno, con personajes perfe
Desde el de Noah cuando tenían 13 años y tenían un fuerte vínculo.
Solo tiene 13 años y ya está claro que es homosexual, lo que no es un problema para el, quien se enamora de su vecino Brian.
Desde el de Jude en el presente con 16 años cuando ni siquiera se hablan.
He is only 13 years old and he knows he is homosexual, which is not a problem for him, who falls in love with his neighbor Brian.From the the point of view of Jude in the present with 16 years when they are not even spoken to each other.
This book has inspired me so much I simply cannot contain the beautifulness of it.
I was so in love I nearly ran away and married the book.
“The sun, stars, ocean, trees, everything, I gave it all up for you.” The thing with Noah and Jude is...I relate.
It's like being Jude and Noah.
Love it!)My only tiny twitchiness came with one half of the romance which is (view spoiler)[ Noah and Brian.
I just...I LOVED them at the beginning, but at the very end when Brian finally gets in contact and comes back?
THEY ARE ADORABLE AND I LOVE THIS BROTHER AND SISTER BOOK MORE THAN ANYTHING.
“This is what I want: I want to grab my brother’s hand and run back through time, losing years like coats falling from our shoulders.” ^^THIS FUCKING QUOTE IS MAKING MY DAMN EYES WATERY AGAIN! WOW! What a wonderfully written spectacular tale. Are there perfect words to delineate the way I feel about this? Absolutely not! It's been such a long time since I actually genuinely enjoyed a book this much. Any book can make you laugh, it's the ones that break your heart, I treasure. For months I haven
“This is what I want: I want to grab my brother’s hand and run back through time, losing years like coats falling from our shoulders.”
Noah draws constantly and is falling in love with the charismatic boy next door, while daredevil Jude wears red-red lipstick, cliff-dives, and does all the talking for both of them.
Noah is such a well-written character he almost feels real.
Where Noah was an instant favorite, it took a while for me to warm up to Jude.
Jude or Noah's.
I let my heart break.”_______________________________THIS IS THE MOST BEAUTIFUL BOOK IVE READ IN YEARS!
emotionally, this book deserves 13049820394234 stars.when i take into account the rushedrushedrushed ending and the predictability, i feel like it deserves 4 stars.so, 4.5 stars it is.the characters are so alive, so well-developed, so flawed, and so beautiful. the story is gorgeous.this book is a must-read.
This book's sheer awesomeness made me want to write a full one, because that's what it deserves!
I'm going to start with the characters because I love them so much my heart's going to burst.
Guillermo, Brian, Oscar, Jude and Noah's mother and father (all are secondary characters but are actually very important to the story too), are all equally complex and flawed.
I love him so much, my heart broke for him so much throughout the book.
By the end of the book, each finds their voice and their strength and their path and it's just beautiful.
I think I’ve just read one of the most beautiful books ever written.I had no idea how much I needed this book in my life, right now.
I felt understood, like this book knew who I was and had this story in stock just for me.I’m a miserable mess right now, I don’t even know if I’ll ever be able to write a proper review one day, it seems so impossible to put all my thoughts in order.I felt an immediate connection with Noah.
Noah, this precious boy who sees everybody’s soul, who paints in his head, and had all this rage inside of him for so long.
I read "I'll Give You the Sun" when it was released back in 2014, and I still can't write a proper review for it.
So I'll just keep it short and to the point.
This little beauty right here is the BEST YA novel I've ever read (and I've read a lot of them).
Her prose/writing style is electric, emotional, and truly a gift from God. I cried so many times.
I still think about all the wonderful/tragic things that happened to the twins, Noah and Jude.
I wish I could give Noah a big bear hug.
A must-read.
there are a lot of layers as to why this or that happened and we truly get to watch the story unfold.
i had such a strong connection with the two of them even though their voices are COMPLETELY different.
a lot of the problems arise between the twins and parents themselves and i find everything else is the "subplot." although i really liked the romance, i felt just a biiiiit insta-love-y and too good to be true but eh that's alright.all in all, this book blew me away.
“If you're going through hell, keep going." - Winston Churchill”  nah man, that's easy for you to say.  I'm sitting here debating whether I should give up on writing this entire review and instead type: shfjdsfhdkjshskjghjsfhdsjf i rather live as an apple bye. but no, i'm forcing myself to put some effort. I can't be a procrastinator forever.  Alright if i was the president of a country, i would totally make everyone read this book. This book is absolute perfection and feels like a personal ass
I felt like Jandy Nelson stabbed me in the heart with her  captivating plot, A+++++ characters, and swoon worthy romance.
I thought I'd be going into this book like : but nope, half way into this book, I realize: and obviously at the end, I was left like: So yeah thanks, Jandy Nelson, very much needed.
Read the book and you'll find out more :) :) :) ○ P.S: did i say how much i love them???
I honestly love this book and want you guys to read it......and maybe join me in the "what is life because i don't even know???"  club.
