https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/930177.Till_Death_Do_Us_Part
Questo “Un colpo di fucile”, l’ho trovato molto simile ad altri già letti, apprezzabile per la genialità del mistero della camera chiusa in questione (per quanto un po' troppo complesso) e per l’acume del Dottor Fell, ma un po’ più povero in atmosfera e suspense, ingredienti che, abbinati all’intelligente stampo del giallo classico, mi avevano fatto amare alla follia altri titoli del nostro.
Comunque, qui siamo nell’Inghilterra degli anni ’30, e la storia si apre sull’inflazionata figura della “vedova nera”, Lesley Grant, una giovane donna che, si sospetta, abbia avvelenato i tre mariti avuti e si appresti ad avvelenare il fidanzato presente, lo scrittore Dick Markham.
Till Death Do Us Part by John Dickson Carr.This is a Dr. Fell locked room mystery from the golden age of mysteries.Every thought process of the characters especially Dick Markham is detailed adding to the suspense of the mystery.
That may be one of the qualities in J.D.C. writing that sets him apart and above (in my opinion) from the rest of the crowd of mystery writers.Dick Markham of Ashe Hall has just formally announced his engagement to Lesley Grant much to the chagrin of his former lady friend, Cynthia Drew.
Remember one important factor...nothing is as it appears.Excellent addition to all mystery lovers particularly those who appreciate the golden age of mystery books by this famous author.
Markham finds that the pathologist is not nearly as hurt as supposed and is even more shocked when Gilman tells him that the love of his life has been married twice and engaged once more--and that all of the men in question have died of prussic acid poisoning while behind locked doors.
He wants Markham to help prove (or disprove) that Lesley did, indeed, polish off three men.But before the final plans can be made Gilman is found dead--from prussic acid--behind the locked doors of his cottage.
A conundrum inside a locked room with a smoke screen, all sorts of twists and turns in this mystery. Once you get into it, it moves. Fun short mystery and it’s so slick it’s easy to miss the clues. Gideon Fell sees what the lovers eyes cannot.
One of the masterpieces of Carr.John Dickson Carr here invents a novel by spectacular plot: Dick Markham, is engaged to the beautiful Lesley Grant.
Few people know that the magician is actually Sir Harvey Gilman, chief pathologist at the Ministry of the Interior.
But Gilman is alive and well: he will reveal to Markham, who went to visit him at home, that the alleged shooter, Lesley Grant, killed two ex-husbands and a boyfriend, by injection of prussic acid, in a locked room.
However no one can explain how it happened.However, she really is the poisoner?
The problem will be explained by Gideon Fell, with a solution that leaves the reader in awe.
I've not read other John Dickson Carr mysteries, so I wasn't familiar with his Dr. Fell.
It did not take long to realize, though, that Dr. Fell is just as obnoxious as other detectives in mystery series.
At least, however, Nero Wolf could cook.
How he fits into this particular story is conveniently explained, since he's given credit for solving the unsolvable crimes.
As is typical of such stories, the reader is at a disadvantage by not having all the information needed to solve the mystery; however, I enjoyed trying to follow the leads and figure out whodunit.
Fabulous!....This is the second Gideon Fell book I've read.
Before this I read "Three Coffins"...it was a great mystery but seemed long and plodding at times....but this one----shorter chapters-great!---"hooks" at the end of each chapter--very great!---changing suspects--very very great!!!!!
I highly recommend this one---I usually read series in order, but with only a couple of these in my library I've taken them in order of publication---and it doesn't seem to matter.
While the friendship/relationship of Dr. Fell and Inspector Hadley is there, there doesn't seem to be any other "carry over" characters you need to know the histories of.
If you like these "locked room" mysteries I recommend this one very highly.
Carr's locked room mysteries are second to none - this is a genius concept executed very well indeed. The story, though, is less perfect. I'm already forgetting exactly whodunnit, though *how* is going to stick in my mind for a long time. 12+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
This book gets 4.5 stars, why not 5?First the positives - great plot, good locked room mystery, ‘Carr’ touches incorporated, couldt-guess-the-murderer-or -the-motive.Negatives(as a reader)- a little dragging in the middle, halfway through the reveal happens, con man concept was not much of an interest to me. Also ‘how’ the locked room was successfully pulled off took a little bit of effort to understand. Else, its a solid Carr read😍
Absorbing crime story set in cosy English village setting similar to an Agatha Christie with quaint English characters very much reflecting bygone English values where women are pretty and sweet and possibly innocent and helpless and men are their protectors. The crime plot is clever and convincing.
Another true classic by Carr. Not quite as funny as some, but extremely wellwritten and interesting -and even with a little horror! You keep reading -and I will read it several more times in years to come!
Clásico policial de asesinato en habitación cerrada. Tiene buenos momentos de suspenso.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
He then warns of a murderer on the loose who makes killing look like suicide, only to be found dead in a locked room - apparently having killed himself in the same way he said the murderer had used before - murder might be suspected.
There is a huge clue as to who the murderer is that, if you spot it, will make that part easily guessed; the question of how the murder was committed though is still remarkably difficult to puzzle out and had me perplexed until the detective Dr Fell explains all.Dickson Carr was the master of these sorts of puzzles.

Un classico dottor Gideon Fell, forse anche meno istrionico del solito.
Niente male la trama: alla fine tutto si incastra perfettamente, e non c'è praticamente dettaglio che non si riveli funzionale in un modo o nell'altro alla costruzione del mistero.
I personaggi sono sempre gli stessi, anche quelli non ricorrenti: non credo ci sia romanzo di Dickson Carr alias Carter Dickson in cui non ci siano almeno una bella fanciulla con qualche segreto e un giovanotto atletico apparentemente ingenuo, tra i quali si sviluppi una storia d'amore ultraconvenzionale; ma queste sono le regole della casa, e se si vuole giocare, non resta che accettarle.
Book #15 in the Gideon Fell series, and an excellent locked room mystery filled with so many twists and turns that to say anything at all about the book may give them away.
Set in a small Sussex village outside Hastings, which happens to be the location of the excellent BBC WWII mystery series “Foyle’s War” that I’m streaming right now.
This book, though published in 1944, is set before the war: the second Fell book in a row to do that.
I guess Carr didn’t want to depress readers by setting the book during the war while it was still going on.
Kunnes kuolema erottaa ei ole John Dickson Carrin parhaita suljetun huoneen arvoituksia, vaikka kirjan takakansi niin väittää. Lukijan on melkeinpä mahdotonta keksiä etukäteen kikkaa, jota on käytetty tässä arvoituksessa, koska ratkaisuun päästäkseen on tunnettava melko yksityiskohtaisesti 1940-luvun amerikkalaiset asuntotekniikan saavutukset, joskin tarvittavat johtolangat ripotellaan kyllä lukijan eteen ja niiden perusteella on helppo tehdä omia veikkauksia ja päätyä kohtuullisen oikeaan lopputulokseen.
Even though there is not much by way of characterization and there are enough distractions that seep in through the cracks left by the story having been written predominantly taking into consideration the protagonist's feelings and perceptions, the "sealed" room solution is uniquely gimmicky enough for its time for me to pronounce it a mini-classic. To detract from it a bit, all this leads to an abrupt and bland conclusion.
A fairly clued locked room mystery with lots of interesting twists and turns to keep the plot moving. Unfortunately, though I liked the reveal of who the culprit turned out to be, I found the motive to be a bit out of the left field, and I'm personally not a fan of the solution to the locked room itself.
Another engrossing read from Carr.Full of the usual red herrings and suspects,this is well worth a read.Carr's locked room solutions sometimes can be a little contrived,but the one used here is very plausible.As the book reached it's climax i found it hard to put down.Recommended!
This is a very clever locked room mystery. The psychological elements were very sound. There was a strong red herring that would take in even experienced fans. It plays fair.
A suitably twisting and turning plot set in a small country town. Not terribly gripping, but an enjoyable little read. Noteable for having the most amusing author bio on the 1953 Penguin I read.
Great locked-room mystery. I don't know why exactly I'm not giving it 5 stars, cause it's a damn good story.
An excellently plotted locked-room mystery that kept my attention throughout. A fast-paced, impossible crime.
I was a little spoiled for I read the script for, IIRC, Vampire Tower. I wish I read the novel first, but it was still a good read.
A clever locked-room mystery in the Carr style. Fun to read.
