https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/962686.Creation_and_Fall_Temptation
This is not his original point of view, of course, but it helps the reader to understand his method of interpretation.Bonhoeffer's writing on the fall was on the whole more compelling than his writing on creation.
That's an interesting way to look at it.Bonhoeffer's analysis of the serpent's question, "Did God say, 'You shall not eat of any tree of the garden'?" (RSV) was intriguing.
A phenomenal reframing of the Fall story.
I read the first essay: Creation and Fall. Excellent and thought provoking, as per Bonhoeffer. I am a teacher of Godly Play, a Montessori-based method of children's religious education, and I was struck by how much of Bonhoeffer's thoughts on this story are paralleled (or included) in Jerome Berryman's Second Creation story for children.
I highly recommend this book to any pastor or staff person that works in the Church. It helps one understand their own creation and our humanness connected to God. We are truly human when we understand we are created beings we n the likeness of God.
There is absolutely no transition or continuity between the dead and the resurrected Christ except the freedom of God which, in the beginning, created his work out of nothing.
‘O great affliction, God himself is dead’—but he who is the beginning lived, destroyed the void and created the new creation in his resurrection.
By his resurrection we know of the creation—for if he were not resurrected the Creator would be lifeless and would not bear witness to himself.” (19)Regarding the lines, “And God saw that the light was good,” Bonhoeffer writes, “this means that God loves his work and therefore wills to preserve it.
He also teaches on the sources of temptation - the Devil, the lust of the flesh, God, pride, and desperation.
123, is the idea of disciples participating in the temptations of Jesus; satisfying the flesh, the promise of power, and misusing God. Speaking about the temptation of desperation, he says, "In ingratitude, in disobedience, and in hopelessness, man hardens himself against the grace of God."This is a very thought provoking book and would be an excellent resource for anyone preparing to teach the first three chapters of Genesis.

The bottom line: An illuminating & thought provoking book that is equal parts commentary, exegesis, and philosophical analysis of Genesis’s first three chapters.The book of Genesis is a story about beginnings, and these beginnings set the tone for the rest of the Biblical text.In Creation and Fall Temptation: Two Biblical Studies, Dietrich Bonhoeffer provides a meticulous analysis of the creation narrative, simultaneously extracting ... http://www.chesadaphal.com/creation-a...
Brilliant book for illustrating what happened to humanity in the Fall. How the Tree of Life & Tree of Knowledge of Good & Evil in the midst of the Garden represent God as the center, and how the fall leaves man at the center of his own universe, but unable to bear the burden of being the center of his/her own existence.
If you can suffer through the dense and difficult to understand language of this book there are many great treasures of knowledge to be found. Dietrich is an absolutely brilliant theologian and I will use much of what he had to say in my discussions with others on the topics of creation and the origan of man.
This book was amazing... it's been sitting on my self for several years and I'm just now getting to it. While I may not necessarily agree with all of his conclusions or observations it was a great little theological read, suffice to say I wasn't writing things of such depth when I was at the age he was when he wrote it... I was simply trying to survive college :)
This was a difficult book to read because I did not understand a lot of it. However, from time to time I understood something that seemed profound. I will re-read it in the future and would highly recommend it to those wanting to learn about creation, the fall, and temptation. He certainly changed my perspective on a few points.
Great read that revealed a new side of Dietrich Bonhoeffer. Would recommend to readers that have read other Bonhoeffer works and have a decent background in philosophy. This work brings out the way that Bonhoeffer's theological and philosophical influences make him interpret scripture, and gives some great insight into Genesis 1-3.
Short book that requires focused reading, pondering and praying. Bonhoeffer provides amazing insights that I am only starting to comprehend. I imagine I will return for a second reading at some point in the future.
I used this book as a daily devotional. It is VERY deep and at times a VERY, VERY tough read. As a Lutheran, I wanted to read this book written by one of the great Lutherans of the 20th Century. It challenged me to think about what I truly believed in the creation stories.
Bonhoeffer's incisive and philosophical commentary on the topics is admirable. The first part on creation and fall was hard to follow at times. This must be due to the translation I suppose. It's a book to be read twice, and may be more.
The short book comprises two studies, the first exploring the Creation of the world and the Fall of mankind, the second delving into temptation and how to resist it. Both are excellent, but the study on temptation is brilliant, 5/5.
This was a fairly good book overall, though the overly philosophical commentary on the first few chapters of Genesis was not particularly my style. It was surly great food for thought. For anyone familiar with Bonhoeffer, you should definitely read this compilation of lectures and Bible studies.
Dear Preacher,Before embarking on your next sermon series examining the first three chapters of Genesis, please consult Bonhoeffer's magnificent theological exposition of the creative and redemptive God Genesis 3 so wonderfully speaks of.Sincerely,Your parishioner
40 years ago I could not understand two consecutive words. As an "Adult," I understand so much more. This is one eye-opening read.
Excellent book--many thought provoking ideas related to creation and temptation. A book I will come back to many times. It is not an easy read, but one that requires many visits.
This is an amazing book, with great theological potential and foresight. However, it is also a very heavy read, so you have to be pretty dedicated to make it all the way through.
Very deep theologically. I had difficulty understanding much of it so feel that I can't really rate it.
Great look at basic Christian anthropology and a book that pushed me along my way in coming to a fuller understanding of creation and the creation story as so much more than a record or origins.
Changed my entire view of the fall...and theology in many aspects. He was a revolutionary and has an incredible story.
If it did it would be freedom conditioned by freedom, in other wrose not freedom, and no longer the beginning." (17)"The earth is without form and void, but he is the Lord, who performs the totally new, strange, unfathomable work of his dominion and love." (20)"He is not bound to the work [creation], but he binds the work to himself." (23)"God views His work and is satisfied with it; this means that God loves His work and therefore wills to preserve it." (25)"If God withdrew his Word from his work it would sink back into nothingness." (34) // never go back on your confession of faith, never withdraw His Words"The goodness of the work is never in the work itself, but only in the Creator.
An excellent theological reading of the early chapters of Genesis. Love Bonhoeffer.
Thus, when it comes to Genesis 1-3, it is a must to properly read and apply what the movement from perfection to sin is all about and how that ties into the follow on story found in Scripture of how God is moving all things in His divine plan towards restoration for those who are His. Dietrich Bonhoeffer, in his excellent book Creation and Fall: A Theological Exposition of Genesis 1-3, takes the reader through a needed journey concerning this foundational biblical subject matter.For those who may not be familiar with Dietrich Bonhoeffer, he was an important figure within the Confessing Church in Germany during the time of the Nazi regime of the 1930s.
There are definitely some gems in here. However, overall the book feels a little bloated. That may be due to my unfamiliarity with theological exegesis. It's worth consulting. A more traditional review forthcoming.
Not the easiest study to follow, but parts of this are really fascinating. Watching Bonhoeffer's method at work can be instructive, as well. His method of Biblical study involves a total immersion in the text that I think could be fruitful in anyone's future study.
