https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/247.Quiet_Days_in_Clichy
update: Miller's Quiet Days In Clichy is given the once over in Verbivoracious Festschrift Volume Three: The Syllabus.Quiet away awayfrom misogynaysaid more to be sexist is hebut after all is done and saidhe likes his women most in bed
It makes me feel like the parents of Colette, the 15-year old runaway waif who gets taken in by Carl and Joey and becomes their “Cinderella, concubine and cook”.
But upon finding out that he and Joey are writers who study the likes of Proust and Goethe, they are instantly placated and decide not to press any charges.
As Carl interprets it, “The French have a great respect for writers, you know that.
A writer is never an ordinary criminal”.In the same way, the artistry of Miller’s writing makes me forgive, and in fact, thoroughly enjoy the depravity of his content.
إما أن تتقبل هنري ميللر كما هو فيروق لك و تجد نفسك من أنصاره الذين يهتفون بحماسة و دون حياء أو تبغضه إلى الأبد و تعاديه دونما هوادة و تصب اللعنات - كل اللعنات - على هذا الوغد .
هناك رأي آخر يتسائل لماذا لا يقلع الجميع عن قراءة هنري و هو الذي لا يتخلى عن البذاءات و سردها بكل الطرق البشعة و مع ذلك يلاقي نجاحاً مسعوراً - إن صح التعبير - و علل ذلك بصوته السردي البارع و العفوي جداً .
ليس ثمة الكثير من الأحداث و هذه عادة لم يقلع عنها الكاتب أبداً و عشاق الحبكات الروائية على موعد مع خيبة كبيرة إن ترقبوا شيئاً من هذا القبيل .
E ciudat cât de impudici pot fi unii oameni, dar e culmea cum impudicitatea lor este atât de fecundă.
Nu-l pot înţelege pe Miller pentru că nu mă pot pune în pielea lui.
Nu pot concepe să-mi schimb "curvele" de pe o zi pe alta, nu pot concepe cum un bărbat poate propaga atât dispreţ la adresa unei femei.
Acum numai "senzaţional", "unic", "literatura americană de azi începe şi se sfârşeşte cu sensul pe care i l-a dat Miller".
Apreciez eroticul, dar nu orgia...
Un spirit existenţialist, dar unul exhibiţionist...
He used to say that I was an incurable optimist, but it wasn't optimism, it was the deep realization that, even though the world was busy digging its grave, there was still time to enjoy life, to be merry, carefree, to work or not to work." This statement, is straightforward Miller if you never read him.
Miller's sex scenes and encounters are spread throughout his work in a matter-of-fact way.
Knowing that during this period Miller was writing my favorite book of all time, Black Spring, helps put things into perspective.
أيام هادئة في كليشي لازلت أبحث عن هنري ميلر الذي يتحدث عنه الجميع، لم تعجبني طريقته ولا أسلوبه ولا موضوعاته، لا يبدو لي مجيداً سردياً، ولا حتى ايروتيكياً، هكذا كان كتابه هذا على قصره ثقيلاً علي، بدا لي صعلكة وجنس لا أكثر، بلا أي لمحة أدبية.
Ενας υπέροχος Χένρι Μίλλερ μ' ένα έργο που γράφτηκε πριν στη δεκαετία του '30 και ξαναγράφτηκε στη δεκαετία του '50 (1956).Δεν είναι ο μύθος που λατρεύεις στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο, είναι οι περιγραφές του Μίλλερ, είναι η διάχυτη σεξουαλικότητα, είναι το α-ρομαντικό και συνάμα τόσο θελκτικό. Αν τις "Ησυχες μέρες στο Κλισί" διαβάσει ένα νεαρό παιδί (15-20), τότε στα σίγουρα θα στιγματίσει τη ζωή του, ίσως και την κοσμοθεωρία του για το τι είναι έρωτας, σεξ, ανθρώπινες σχέσεις, πραγματική καθημερινή ζωή.Για έναν ενήλικο είναι μια γερή γροθιά πιο κάτω από το στομάχι.
Quiet Days in Clichy is a novella about nothing.
It tells the story, barely at that, of a few days in the lives of two starving writers in Paris.
It's supposed to be semi-autobiographical, based on Miller's own experiences of living a destitute life in Clichy neighbourhood of Paris in 1930s.Both the central characters are made out to be crass misogynists yet cannot live without women.
Miller writes marvellously as long as he is not writing about sex.
When he turns to sex, which is almost on every page, he engenders feeling of disgust in the reader.
Henry Miller her gün karşımıza çıkan yazarlardan değil.
Özellikle herkesin tabu saydığı şeyleri arsızca, olduğu gibi anlatması; birilerinin yüzünü kızartan konuları şov haline getirmeden, estetize etmeye çalışmadan aktarabilmesi; bir yazar olarak kitaplarında kendini bu kadar şeffaf ve bütün halinde gözler önüne sermesi...
Eserleri üst üste koydukça Miller'ı da artık yakından tanımaya başlarsınız.Bu kitap da yazarın Paris günlerini bize aktarıyor.
Bana kalırsa 'Yengeç Dönencesi'ni okumamış bir okurun, yazarın diğer kitaplarını okuması anlamsız.
Oradan başlamanızı ve sonrasında, Miller'ın hayatı da ilginizi çekerse diğer kitaplarına devam etmenizi öneririm.
Tek başına Miller'dan bağımsız çok fazla bir şey ifade etmeyebilir zira bu kitap.
ميللر ميللر ميللر الرذيلة حين تمشي على الأقلام و فوق الأوراق لا شيء هادئ في كليشي لا شيء بتاتا يمت للهدوء بصلة ليالي صاخبة حمراء و بكل ألوان النبيذ التي تعرفها فرنسا بين أحيائها السفلية و الخلفية ..هذا هو ميللر يجيد الحديث الجاد كما يجيد الكلام الملغم بالآثام..يتجرد من الحياء تجرده من الاستعارات ليوضح الأمور كما هي بدون تجميل ..المثير أن ميللر لا يدري أننا نتعامل مع كتبه نفس تعامله مع العاهرات نحبها في وقتها و نحتفظ بذكراها معنا لكننا نضعها في الرف و نتناول التالي...أيام هادئة في كليشي توقع الأخبث منها.
المشكلة أنه لا يوجد قصة .. لو طلبت مني أن أعيد لك سرد ما قرأت لن أستطيع .. هناك كاتبان لا يفعلان شيئاً سوى جرع الخمر ولقاء العاهرات .. لو جلست مع بلطجي سيحكي لك ما هو أفضل.
Or a better example of an annoying shit who thinks just because he's in another country he's interesting?The difference between Miller and generic porn is the fact that Miller isn't profoundly stupid.
He's smart enough to know that just having sex and self-consciousness in a novel makes it interesting and literary to New Yorker subscribers, just as he's not smart enough to know just because he's "honest" and writes "honestly" about sex doesn't mean he's a genius.
He's essentially a writer of romance novels (fantasies) for writers, virginal librarians and others who yearn for the Good Old Days of Debauchery.
قرات من فتره طويله صفحات من روايه مدار السرطان وما قدرت اكملها كانت ممله وبعدها جربت اقرا هالروايه وصلت 40 صفحه ولا كملتها ممله جدا وما زلت ابحث عن مفتاح لاعماله *****الروايه المفتاح لكل روائي مفتاح تدخل به إلى عالمه الروائي، ويختلف هذا المفتاح من قارئ لآخر، فبعض القراء لم يفلحوا في قراءة «يوليسس» لجيمس جويس إلا بعد أن أحبوا مجموعته القصصية «أهالي دبلن»، والبعض لم يفعل إلا بعد أن قرأ «صورة الفنان في شبابه»، والبعض الآخر لم يجد له مفتاحا حتى الآن، وأنا من هؤلاء» اقتباس من مقال لبلال فضل
Interesting book to read if you are familiar with Montmartre and Parisian hotspots, and also wonderful to see an author who really doesn't care what he says or who he might offend with his shocking use of language. Enjoyable offering from Henry Miller.
Sometimes I can't separate the work from the morals/actions. But Henry Miller is just too charming to not forgive (ignore?) his objectification of women and revel with him as he fucks every girl that walks by and treats them like shit. Maybe it's just too romanticized in my mind--a starving writer in Paris going on bender after bender. Whatever it is, he's a beautiful writer. Even if he is a pig.
مصافحة أولى للمدعو هنري ميللر، وعلى ما يبدو لم يكن هناك الكثير من الود.عبث في الأرجاء هنا وهناك مع بعض الفقرات المفصلية العظيمة، والتي تنجي هذا الكتاب من مقصلة النجمة الواحدة.بناء على قراءة واحدة لكل من روايات بوكوفسكي وميللر (والمقارنة قائمة على أساس كتابتهما في ذات الأجواء)، فقد وجدت بوكوفسكي أمتع بينما ميللر أعمق حتى الآن.ولعل هذه النظرة تتغير مع كتب قادمة لهما - بما أني أملك بعضًا منها.
لمْ تكنْ أيامُ ميللر هادئةً كما يُشعِرُ عنوانُ كتابِه بل كانتْ صاخبةً زاعقةً. ميللر هنا هو هو كما في رواياتِه ليسجلَ شيئًا من يومياتِه عندما كان يعيشُ حياةَ التشردِ في باريسَ، ما زلتُ أعتقدُ حتى بعدَ أن أنهيتُ الكتابَ أنَّ الجنسَ هنا "ما هو إلا قشرةٌ خارجيةٌ" ويبقى غوصُه في تحليل الطبيعةِ البشريةِ لضحاياه أمر يدعو للتقديرِ وفيه عمق كبيرٌ جعلَ منْ كتابِه الصغيرِ تحفةً رائعةً
This has been my favorite Henry Miller, especially for lines like "I was that peppery, I could have raped a nun."
Miller was famously dissected by Kate Millet in her 1970 book "Sexual Politics" -- torn to shreds, with each shred pinned like a butterfly -- and people STILL like reading him.
I would compare his writing to Isaac Singer's in that way (and that way only).
Additionally, there's the outrageous sexual point of view present in Miller's writing, a POV that still has power in our age, as "sex workers" form unions.
If you like Henry Miller track down a photograph of him taken in Big Sur. It shows him playing ping pong, naked, with two beautiful naked young women.
When I noticed this book in the used book store, I picked it up, randomly turned to page 35 and read:"She bent down and gave me a kiss on both cheeks. As she did so her boobies fell out and brushed my face."What grown man says "boobies?" This is Arthur Miller for Christs Sakes!
Say anything you like, do anything you like, but use the language of love—the glamorous, romantic, sentimental words which conceal the ugly, naked reality of the sexual assault.La Place Clichy by Eugène Galien-Laloue (1854-1941)I turned to this short unread Miller to help erase the memory of  Ursula Le Guin’s sermonising and it did the job magnificently.
He works with flat sentences in lines on a page that seem to shift in depth and light.
How wonderful to put one’s cunt to work and use one’s brains for pleasure!Despite the thumping hedonism, and perhaps because of it, the gaps of virtue seep through brilliantly, like absinthe for the soul.
Os dois homens vivem para o momento, fazem o que lhes apetece, onde mais lhes agrada e com quem mais desejam.Miller foca-se no lado mais sórdido de Paris, no seu mundo reles e deprimente do sexo, álcool e pobreza.
Neste cenário, os dois garanhões não perdem tempo com futilidades (como o trabalho, a leitura ou a escrita), concentrando-se, em vez disso, em levar para a cama (casa de banho, sofá, chão ou outro sítio qualquer que sirva) todas as mulheres que conhecem, a qualquer hora e de qualquer forma.
I thought, while spending a year overseas, I would read books about people who were living far from home.
At the time, I just wasn't in the mood for it, but thought I'd give it another go, figuring it would be a good antidote to the plot-rich/poetry-weak book I had been reading.
Unfortunately, "Tropic" wasn't available on Kindle, so I thought I'd go with this book, which some reviewers had said was an easier read than his more famous work.
What still amazes me is that I was neither offended or disgusted by his writing as I can imagine women (and especially liberal women) are or could be, I actually found it to be refreshing as it was so honest, and done with perfect humor, not taking himself too seriously, that it was quite believable, and entertaining, and I had a hard time putting the book down, even though it's a short read.
How come someone didn't tell me about Henry Miller a long, long time ago?
You guys know I like to read stories about guys who get it on with a series of beautiful or at least easy women.
And Henry Miller, apparently, is the master of the form.
Like a more literary (but still enjoyable) Tucker Max. Quiet Days in Clichy probably isn't even one of his best books.
I thought it was a really good deal, but it turns out it's only about an afternoon worth of reading.
I always enjoy Henry Miller. Here's a passage that I liked: "There are hotels in the side streets leading off the boulevard whose ugliness is so sinister that you shudder at the thought of entering them, and yet it is inevitable that you will one day pass a night, perhaps a week or a month, in one of them. You may even become so attached to the place as to find one day that your whole life has been transformed and that what you once regarded as sordid, squalid, miserable, has now become charming, tender, beautiful."
Iako je "Rakova obratnica" Milerov klasik, "Mirni dani na Klišiju" je daleko zabavnija i čitljivija knjiga. Mileru se može, ako se želi, zamjeriti dosta toga, od seksizma i mizoginije do krajnjeg pesimizma, ali mu se jedno mora priznati - da je beskrajno duhovit, a naslovnica ove knjige komotno može da bude onaj meme"Look at all the fucks I give."
لكن كيف وهو لم يبق أي نقود في جيبه..عاد إلي البيت فلربما وجد طعاما متبقيا من كارل.
لا تعرف كيف يشعر المرء عندما يعامل كإنسان".ما أروع سرد ميللر، إلا أنه داعرمقتبسات:- إن الجنس لا يصبح رومانسيا، وخصوصا عندما يكون موضع بيع وشراء، لكنه يخلق رائحة لاذعة، تدعوك إلي الحنين الذي هو أكثر سحرا وإغواء من درب المتع الأبيض المتلألئ بالأنوار.- إن الأحوال السيئة مادة خصبة بالنسبة للفنان كما هي الأحوال الجيدة، بل، ربما كانت أكثر بكثير في بعض الأحيان.
There are only two things you can do on a rainy day, as the saying goes, and the whores never wasted time playing cards.I thought this book was alright.
When i think about this period, when we lived together in Clichy, it seems like a stretch in Paradise.
Like business, Miller contents himself with the meaningless absurdity of pleasure, which he finds in fountains, in slews, in Clichy::'And what would you do with yourself to pass the time away?' I once asked.'What would i do?' she repeated in astonishment.
I like Miller less when he talks about rosy cunts and more when he talks about time travel.
If you're not familiar with Mr. Miller's works (as am I), you'll have a hard time discerning whether what you're reading is his memoirs or if it's fiction.
Seemingly, this book was like a day in the life of Miller - a struggling American writer in Paris, honing squandering his craft through booze and women.
And what better way to venture out to the dark side but read Henry's works?I've had this image of old Paris in my head - beautiful, classy, grand and worthy of being aptly named, The City of Love.
I was amazed by how little his opinions about women were.
