https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31450852-tower-of-dawn
I’ve seen people throw the ‘culture appropriation without research’ accusation at Sarah, but she credits Ghengis Kahn in the end of her book, and it was really neat to hear about the time and effort she spent studying him.Also, Chaol is the only white person in the whole book (unless I’m missing something), and the new cultures and characters were such a breath of fresh air.
There are also ruk riders which I won’t touch too much on, but holy crap, they are going to bring a whole new level of epic to the series.Chaol + Disability Representation (spoilers in the last paragraph)This is such a touchy subject, and I was debating whether or not to share my feelings towards the matter.
As the book drew to a close, it was easy to see that Tower of Dawn existed for the sole purpose of creating a new love interest for Chaol and getting him back on his feet.
I think it was a bad decision to insert Chaol's 600+ page perspective here, right when Maas has us on an emotional hook.
I feel like by the time the next book rolls around, excitement and tension over Aelin's predicament will have waned for me.Maas has responded to readers, or so it seems, by creating more diverse characters in this book.
Also if this book would have come out after the next the final book this story would have had the prequel curse where I would have known everything that was going to happen.I admit I was thinking about Aelin through this book, so I was glad to see her make appearances (only as mentions throughout).
Anger, frustration, and guilt can be as detrimental to a person’s recovery as the cause of the physical injury itself.As much as I hate to admit it these characters would not have had a chance to shine like this if Aelin was in this book.
*happy dance because i loved this when i thought i was gonna hate it*
Since the USA version doesn't come with a warning, here it is.
This book contains mature content.
Not suitable for younger readers.Just took a peek at the quotes, most of them seem to be about "how great and frightening Aelin is" and how revolting & cringe-worthy Rowan's love is.
Um, are they even in this book?
I might be mistaken but i was led to believe this was Chaol's book?
HOLY SMOKES!G.R.R.M, is that .
is that you, my man?This is going to be a full sized book now?
YICKS!
Is it just me or SJM is turning into Cassandra Clare?
#0.1) The Assassin and the Pirate Lord ★★★#0.2) The Assassin and the Healer ★★#0.3) The Assassin and the Desert ★★★★#0.4) The Assassin and the Underworld ★★★★★#0.5) The Assassin and the Empire ★★★#1.) Throne of Glass ★★★#2.) Crown of Midnight ★★★★#3.) Heir of Fire ★★#4.) Queen of Shadows ★★#5.) Empire of Storms ★★★  “Every step, all of it, had led here. From that keep in the snow-blasted mountains where a man with a face as hard as the rock around them had thrown him into the cold; to that salt
While Aelin, Dorian, and the rest of the gang are trying to unite empires and bring them together to fight the greater threat at hand, Chaol and Nesryn left for Antica, located in the southern continent, to convince another strong empire to join them in the battle that is inevitably coming, while also seeing if the healers at the Torre can heal Chaol’s paralysis.
Tower of Dawn not only introduces a vast array of new characters, and it also helps showcase that this book feels like a love letter to being young and finding yourself.
Loved this with all my heart and couldn’t stop reading.
Maas, again, applause for you.(Don’t know if I’ll have a review for this one.
But I've always wondered: HOW ON EARTH CAN ANYONE NOT LOVE CHAOL?!?!
I don't know about you, but the fact that he lost his shit in QoS (which was acceptable since he went against everything he believed in his whole life), the fact that he was flawed like any other human being only brought him closer to perfection.So, no.
SJM described this book as HoF (my favorite ToG installment) but for Chaol.
Sooooooooooooooooo, I was going to give this 4 stars but it made the 5 stars because I have a new love and that would be Sartaq =) I really wish they would have had more scenes with him and Nesryn.
I'm glad I read Assassin's Blade before this because some peeps were in this book.
I love screaming that in a book.
I didn't see that coming at all and now I'm worried about the last book.
There are some great characters in this book but it centers around Chaol, Yrene, Nesryn and Sartaq.
This was a great read, I just think it was waaaay too long and not really entirely necessary. I liked seeing a different perspective on things and being in a new setting following different characters. I loved the way the relationships ended up going, so that was a big plus. Buuut, I just wasn't really entirely wowed. I listened to the audiobook but I think I may read it physically closer to the release date for the next TOG novel, so in a very long time.
Chaol deserved this journey, this book.
Not because I feel like his character was destroyed as people like to cry about, but because his emotional journey was needed.
This book was so brown, and so enjoyable to read and discover this continent found on justice and equality and for then Chaol to see what a kingdom is actually like.
And his overall character arc from book one till now has been an incredible and healing journey to follow.
I still get pissy and when I read that people believe, or assume shall we say because that is what they're doing, that Sarah J Maas has no care for Chaol.
[Kadja] had family here, and he'd never bothered to ask--You may as well pick up your bows and your quivers, because being shot in the vagina with a poisoned arrow would probably be less painful than reading one more page of Chaol's Boring Journey to God Knows Where With Fuck Knows Who Doing Who Fucking Cares.
After Tower of Dawn, I'm not sick of Chaol for the same reasons that most people attest to: I've heard a lot of folk saying they hate him now because of the way he treated Nesryn.
All major spoilers are hidden! "You may look at me with resentment Yrene Towers, and I will not blame you for it. But believe me when I say there is no one in Erilea who loathes me more than I do myself.” I went into this without a ton of expectations but am really glad this book happened now! I was curious to see how Chaol’s story would unfold, but also a bit wary that his character growth would be tied to his current disability being cured. I’ll talk more about that in a bit, but I thought eve
This is the third one and it’s getting a bit old to have favorite characters whip out the term “wife” and say they remember that one time they got married the other day… (hide spoiler)]Random things I loved:- almost every character is a POC- more insights into events from previous books (like the King of Adarlan’s actions)- most characters are in their twenties- every single character isn’t straight or super attractive- seeing a broader worldview with news from other locations- I was getting a lot of Game of Thrones vibes at times, which made it even more fun.
Fuck rereading this book HURT MY HEARTOriginal review:I.
I was originally not at all excited for this book but then I reread the entire series and I was HYPED.
I'm shook to the max by how much I utterly love this book.
We all knew that Chaol's job was to get healed as well as raise an army.
Honestly, the way Chaol's healing took place was so utterly raw and incredible.
This book is incredible perfection and I am in love.
As someone who didn't like Chaol and slowly grew to like him in my reread, I would like to say that I love Chaol.
Maas has managed to work Chaol back into my good graces with this book.
With Yrene, he finds forgiveness and revived humanity.Of course, it wouldn't be a 'Throne of Glass' book if there wasn't plenty of danger and action.
Around every turn was the possibility of destruction as this battle between good and evil continues.My only disappointment was that I was dying to pick up where the last book left off.
I spent a lot of time waiting for her to make an appearance before finally realizing that it wasn't going to happen and just enjoying the beauty of this book for what it was.Check out more of my reviews at www.bookaddicthaven.com
Tower of Dawn follows Chaol and Nesryn's journey to the southern continent, in order to search for potential allies against the forces of Morath and a way to heal Chaol after the events of Queen of Shadows.
In a foreign land, a place thriving and actually cared for by its monarchs, Chaol was forced to face the demons within, along with the court manipulations and the political games between the viziers and the possible heirs of the khaganate.
In the city of Antica, where the Tower of Healers blessed by the Goddess loomed, in the unforgiving mountains of the famous ruk riders, Chaol and Nesryn found answers, even to questions they never dared ask.
6.28.17 update:  Apparently this book is goign to be 700 pages.It is gonna take me so long to read this urghThat just means more time where someone might see me with reading this hideously covered bookRIP this book is going to be the death of me.
6.20.17 update:  lol this cover is so fuglyhahhahahahhahahaitsouglywe're in 2017 not 1997 ripi thought we as a society have progressed past ugly coversi mean if this was a novel about that ass turd r*wan then i'd understand but it's not  thank god, we already have wayyyy to much r*wan as it is #ChaolWestfallDeservesBetter #OhChaolNo (also who the eff is Nesryn I don't remember her at all)(no one is answering this question properly I am still lost who the eff is Nesryn?????)(haha I give up.
Something resembling a review to come.
**I don't like the cover at all.
I feel so underwhelmed by it.
It seems that anything including Chaol shouldn't be cared about much because like Chaol, duh.
Don't mind me, I'm just bitter about anything involving my baby.
**WHAT COULD THE TITLE MEEEEEAAN?!!
IM NOT OKAY THIS IS NOT OKAY WHAT IS THAT TITLE???
**GUYS THIS IS NO LONGER JUST A NOVELLA!!
*dies* **I keep opening this thinking that the release date would somehow change to, like, today?
**I'M NOT CRYING I'M NOT CRYING ...
I'M CRYING I'M FUCKING CRYING T_T Chaol my baby T_T
Full review up!You know those books that you just look at the cover and you get this over encompassing wave of emotions that you don’t know how to deal with ???? yeah, that’s what I feel everytime I look at Tower of DawnmememeDisclaimer: I do not promise coherency or stability in my emotions or screaming. But it WILL be spoiler free, don’t worry, I’m not a monster A List of the Reason why I Wake up Crying - Chaol westfall got an entire book dedicated to himself and his healing- Can you imagine-
Full review up!You know those books that you just look at the cover and you get this over encompassing wave of emotions that you don’t know how to deal with ????
-	Chaol westfall got an entire book dedicated to himself and his healing-	Can you imagine-	my son got his own book, after the haters tried to end his career, he rose over their pettiness and showed the world that he’s perfect-	and 700 pAGES too bInCh yOu tHoUghT-	so let me tell you why this book is the reason I get up in the morning-	bc chaol westfall is in pain-	and in this book-	he deals with his emotional and physical pain-	and HE GROWS SO MUCH OH MY GOD SEEING HIM GROW AND HEAL OH MY LORD WOW THIS BOOK HURT -	but nah boi don’t you go thinking this book is about chaol shedding his disability with a snap of the fingers and calling out my queen sjm for inaccurate ANYTHING bc -	THIS.
I LOVE SARTAQ!!!! <333 Okay, this said I can finally speak about everything else! *lol*This book was really awesome and even though the pace was a lot slower than in all the other books of this series I still enjoyed it immensely. Gosh, what am I saying? It was nice to have slow burns and a slow plot for a change!!! XDAhh this ending made me so happy and hopeful! <3Can’t wait to read “Kingdom of Ash” now!RTC once I have loads and loads of time! Because let’s be honest here, there were so
;-)_________________________________Buddy read with my precious Gem!Book 6 - TOWER OF DAWN!YESH, we’re finally doing this!!!
=)))The last book before we can jump into the “Kingdom of Ash” and I know you’ll love this, Gem!
*lol* It was a long way, but we made it and even though we won’t be able to manage to finish it before “Kindom of Ash” comes out, I’m still very thankful that we were able to read the entire series together!
It was an amazing buddy read and I hope there will be more like that to come!
I'm not sure I can make myself care for Chaol. I just hope this is not obligatory if you want to understand ToG7.
I have so much love for this book my heart's going to burst.If you know me, you know I love Chaol Westfall to bits and pieces and he's one of my all-time favorite male characters.
Tower of Dawn did not only serve as a book where Chaol seeks healing and hopes to get more allies, but also it was his emotional journey.
By the end of the book, he's come to terms with a lot of things and he rebuilds himself all over again.
Nesryn Faliq is also a main character in this book and she had her own plot which revealed loads of things!
Love Chaol's character development.👏🏼
okay. as someone who has made it pretty obvious how much i dislike the covers of this series, WHY on earth am i so frustrated that this one doesnt match?!??! i mean, WHO EVEN AM I???!? identity crisis aside, ‘kingdom of ash’ comes out in  two  days and this has seriously got me hyped to the maxxx. the end is drawing nearer and my mind, body, and soul could not be more ready.gahh. this book was so good. it was so different from the rest of the series, but i love that. it was so refreshing. also,
it was so different from the rest of the series, but i love that.
he has been my favourite since the very beginning and i will stand by him through thick and thin, at his best and at his worst (yeah, i see you guys coming for him during ‘queen of shadows’ - not on my watch!).
and so it was about time he got a book of his own.
i loved how this was completely separate from the main series, but also tied in so well, giving the reader much needed information.
i cant wait to see how what happened in this book will incorporate with everything else that has been going on in the series.
Hahahahah...ha...(And here I am, complaining about math hw giving me migraines) Not only has this planning shown through in the plot, it has shown through in the characters, so special thanks to:Chaol, my cinnamon bunYrene, my extra sweet cinnamon bunNesryn, my classic Hershey’s chocolate Sartaq, the extra hot sauce ...That’s only a few of the precious baes I have acquired from this book Straight up, ever since Throne of Glass, I thought Chaol was just a lump on a log.
In this book, HE IS THE COMPLETE OPPOSITE.This guy’s got humor.
We also meet quite a few new characters in this installment, as well as seeing some old faces (this would be a good time to tell you that it’s practically a requirement to read the Assassin’s Blade novellas before picking up Tower of Dawn!).
I especially loved watching certain puzzle pieces fall into place for characters (as in the scene with Chaol and Yrene at the end of the book that literally made me weep over how much I love Aelin).
Many because Sarah J Maas pulled a back-hand and showed her readers she had a plan all along for Chaol and she didn’t just toss him aside like he was a wasted character.I loved exploring the Southern continent and how their lands work.
“Here, with her, he was home.”I have read some of my friend’s reviews who do deal with more crucial disabilities that I myself deal with, and I am happy to see that they feel represented, loved, appreciated, and like they too could kick the bad guy’s back-end.Also: I like that she doesn’t shy away from the fact that Chaol is a complete and total jerk when it comes to women in this book either.
I will cherish it always.No matter what may befall the world.No matter the oceans, or mountains, or forests in the way.  Okay! It took me a while to review this book but I'm finally getting around to doing it. I went into this book with very low expectations. As you may or may not know, SJM's books are a huge rollercoaster for me. I either love or hate them, but I'm glad to say that this book falls into the former category. Here are my reviews of the rest of SJM books: Throne of Glass ⭐⭐⭐⭐Crown
I found some elements that made me fall in love with this series in the first place and now I’m definitely reading the last book when it comes out.
Here are the main things I loved about this book:*Finally some diversity.*Disability representation was on point.
Overall, this was an enjoyable read and I can’t wait to find out how the series wraps up in the final book!
I guess I'm reading this book today.----Oh wow!
I'm really interested to read this book and find out what good ol' Chaol has been up to while the main series went down.
So the new game of thrones cover looks good?? I SEE NO DIFFERENCE. Lmfao in all seriousness I don't even go here but why is that cover so ugly?! It doesnt even match the rest of the series I'm? ????
if it wasn’t for Yrene he’d have been a lost cause, nothing worth reading about.
Yrene Towers was Chaol’s better half for sure, he needed someone as awesome as her to get him out of his self loathing and let go of his bitter misplaced hatred for Aelin.
The Khagan’s children were all interesting characters, some good, others not so much but both added to the awesomeness of this book.
Princess Hasar, in my opinion, had a personality mix between Manon and Aelin, I didn’t know whether to love her or pull a Yrene move, lol.
I think this was one of her best and most well thought out books yet.***********OKAY SPOILER TIME!
Most of my review will be focused on these aspects of the book....Does the character with the disability talk about something other than their disability, and do the people around them do the same in regards to them?...Yup. Now, a majority of the book is centered on Chaol's injury.
...Does the characters story line/arc serve a purpose beyond making the lives of the people around them better?...Yup. Much of the book is about Chaol's own personal emotional journey.
