https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78024.And_Quiet_Flows_the_Don

وقتی پدر گریگوری، به رابطه ی نامشروع این دو پی می‌برد، به اجبار گریگوری را، به ازدواج با دختری پاکدامن، به نام: «ناتالیا»، وامی‌دارد؛ ولی گریگوری دل در گرو عشق آکسیانا دارد، و با زن قانونی خود، به سردی برخورد می‌کند.
اما در نهایت برمیگردد، و دلداده ی خود، آکسیانا را برمی‌دارد، و رو به سوی مقصدی (زندگی آرام) می‌رود.
گریگوری که همه چیزش را باخته‌ است، به خانه برمیگردد، و درمی‌یابد که دخترش نیز از بیماری جان سپرده‌ است.
Like War and Peace, Quiet Flows the Don is about war - though instead of focusing on the French invasion of Russia as in the Tolstoy, Soholokhov's story revolved around the start of WWI and Russian Civil War. There are periods of "peace" in both books as well, moments of downtime in which we see a flash of home life - the women, the children, the farms - though the politics never seems to leave these pages.
Sub acest aspect, în ceea ce mă priveşte, nu pot sa trec cu vederea similitudinea atmosferei descrise de Margaret Mitchell in Pe aripile vântului cu cea descrisa de Şolohov in Donul liniştit, despre destine frânte, familii risipite de război, moarte sau boală, iubiri adulterine convulsive, ezitări, şovăieli existenţiale într o epocă istorică ce face ca nimic să nu mai fie ca înainte.Lectura poate fi uşor disconfortantă pentru cititoarele de sex feminin, scenele de război sunt masive şi foarte minuţios descrise.
Key to Principal Characters--And Quiet Flows the Don
I was wandering around the stacks of the library at Texas A&M University and found the two-book series, And Quiet Flows the Don and the Don Flows Home to the Sea. I was looking for a good book and I was looking for a better program of study (engineering wasn't my thing).
Like some other Russian literature, this book (it's one volume in Russian) is epic in scale.
At the outset you feel like you are in a timeless Russian village that could be in 17th, 18th or 19th centuries.
I've read reviews from American writers that suggest the book is a lesser work, that it is Marxist propaganda.
As the war progressed, the Red Army had not only to fight against the Whites, but against anarchists, assorted bandit formations, and rebellious Cossacks, who switched sides several times as the tide of events washed over them.The book is the story of one such Cossack, and of the women whom he loves, and the struggles he has to go through.Grigorii Melekhov is a young Cossack in the Don valley just prior to the start of the First World War. He loves Aksinia, the wife of another Cossack, and this results in so much fighting and turmoil that his father forcibly marries him off to another woman, Natalya, who is as sweet and gentle as Aksinia is fiery and determined.
The most impressive novel that I have read. it is a masterpiece.
بعد خوندن این کتاب میتونم ادعا کنم دو ماه توی روسیه زندگی کردم, در جنگ جهانی اول در جبهه ی روسیه جلو المان ها جنگیدم , شاهد انقلاب شوروی بودم و در شورش علیه مسکو شرکت کردم.ظولانی ترین کتابی بود که الان خوندم.
الدون الهادئ…..ميخائيل شولوخوفإنما الأدب الخصب حقًا ، هو الذي يلذّك حين تقرؤه ، لأنه يقدّم إليك ما يُرضي عقلك وشعورك ، ولأنه يوحي إليك ما ليس فيه ، ويلهمك ما لم تشتمل عليه النصوص ، ويعيرك من خصبه خصبًا ، ومن ثروته ثروة ، ومن قوته قوة ، و يُنطقك كما أنطق القدماء ، ولا يستقر في قلبك حتى يتصور في صورة قلبك أو يصور قلبك في صورته ، وإذا أنت تعيده على الناس فتلقيه إليها في شكل جديد يلائم حياتهم التي يحيونها ، وعواطفهم التي تثور في قلوبهم ، و خواطرهم التي تضطرب في عقولهم.هذا هو الأدب الحي .
A book about life of Cossacks approaching the times of First World War and Russian Revolution. It is more realistic account of rural.life I have come across. Characters are complex with a roughness on the visible behaviour and the author writes so beautifully about Don and areas surrounding it.
One of the best russian books I have ever read. Is "sweeping epic" a cliche thing to say?A sweeping epic.
I am glad to see Quiet Flows the Don is back in print in English.
Published in 1929, Quiet Flows the Don was the pinnacle of Sholokhov's career.
If Sholokhov descended into the role of a party hack churning out the obligatory Socialist Realist pap, at least he lived to a ripe old age.I have never understood the conventional English translation of the book's title as Quiet Flows the Don. In Russian it is Тихий Дон, literally The Quiet Don. Did the original translator, Stephen Garry, believe it would be confused with a story of a taciturn British academic?
Of course, at the beginning, when I read almost normal, this engagement existed as the author made a truly majestic account of life in a Cossack village in a beautiful but difficult environment with rules that have not changed for centuries.
In a next reading that will be done in better conditions, I believe I will be able to enjoy it as well.Αυτό το βιβλίο το διάβασα κάτω από περίεργες συνθήκες, στα πλαίσια μιας ομαδικής ανάγνωσης σε μία ομάδα μου κράτησε πολύ καιρό και αδυνατούσα να ακολουθήσω το χρονοδιάγραμμα της, με αποτέλεσμα να το διαβάζω αρκετά περιστασιακά και να μην μπορώ να μπω αρκετά στο κλίμα.
Fabulous reading...... and now for a rather, methinks, irreverent view via a Rupert Everett (smack in the puss) film: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0384712/Mea Culpa: see that line above re the film. NOPE! The film is more than my 'ickle heart could have imagined. Superb!If anyone should ask me what is the best ever book it would have to be this.A winter re-read is now top of the agenda.
The language is simply stunning and makes even inanimate objects appear as alive as most human characters in average novels.
It would be a monumental task to translate it into other languages, I suspect..Aside from the language, it's an epic read about a very interesting people in a crucial time in Russian history -- Cossacks during the Russian Revolution.
It depicts the life of ordinary but fierce and colorful characters trying to make it through a merciless historical tsunami.
Passion, need for freedom, all-consuming civil war, people of great earthly spirit who are willing to endure suffering but not submission.
Should not have been 554 pages...The first section ("Peace") held my attention because I had never read descriptions of the olde tyme Cossack lifestyle before.
However in later sections the book dwelt heavily on the goings on of this village region.
This section and the subsequent one are also interesting as they depict an array of actual historical events familiar to any scholar of Russian history.
It does drag on though.Basically, this book would have been great if it was half the length, focused less on the village, and emphasized the other strong points which I mentioned (war, socialism, historical events, cultural factors of cossack life and bolshevism).
The actual book can only hint at the culture of the people showcased within it's pages.
All of the conflicting ideas the characters represent only hint at the complexity of the time.Sholokhov was a Cossack and he wrote a book about Cossacks.
There were a lot of masterpieces published during this decade and this book won against some of the greats.At first, I read this as just a book, nothing else.
Yes. The Daglish translation has the entire work including what is called The Don Flows Home to the Sea. I am planning to read the entire book (Daglish version).
This book was published in 1934 and is a beautifully written novel about Cossack culture and history from the late 1800’s through WWI, the Russian Revolution, and the civil war immediately following.
Sholokhov has written a work as interesting as War and Peace, I think, focusing on a particular group within Russian society, a group in many ways unique and colorful, and he has done so with great sensitivity and beauty, his descriptions of nature being particularly striking.
His presentations of life and war and their effects on the lives of ordinary people are often harsh but never gratuitous, and tensions within a society are wrenching and poignant.
اين رمان يك رمان تلفيقي است ..تم سياسي/اجتماعي وخانوادگي دارد ...اين كتاب درباره زندگي قزاق هاي ساكن
This is a really strange book - it is in four parts.
The first two are brilliant hardyesque descriptions of peasant life in peace and war.
Part three sees the novel's structure collapse as the Russian Revolution takes hold.
The final part sees a return to the countryside, and an inconclusive finish.
The only consistent progression in this novel is the role and treatment of women.
In the opening chapters women are beaten and even lynched for sorcery.
By the end they are taking their equal part in the revolution as soldiers standing alongside the men.
The human face of the Revolution...The Melekhov family own a farm in the small Cossack village of Tatarsk, on the banks of the Don. In this strongly patriarchal society, the adult sons remain at home, bringing their wives to join the family, while the adult daughters leave to go to the family homes of their husbands.
Sholokhov paints an entirely credible, unvarnished picture of the lives of his characters – a harsh, physical life, where the women are expected to work as hard as the men, and often fill their roles on the farms when the men are off at their military camps, an important part of the Cossack tradition.
Socialist realism gives it a unique stamp, but it also leaves readers indifferent to the fate of the people in its pages.More chronicle than novel, seldom in the story do the Cossacks actually do anything.
Channeling Turgenev, the author tells touchingly of the tender leaf shoots, the green summer hay, the groaning ice floes, the farm animals.
People: 0; Green leaf shoots: 1; Massacres: 1.Hmmm ...
On no page will you read an actual woman’s perspective, only women trying to imitate men.
People: 0; Green leaf shoots: 1; Massacres: 1; Chicks in combat boots: 1.What more?
People: 0; Green leaf shoots: 1; Massacres: 1; Chicks in combat boots: 1; Obscurantism: 1.
Амьдралдаа уншсан хамгийн урт роман бөгөөд уншсан хэн хүний сэтгэлд хүрэхээс өөр аргагүй ном ажээ.
cho đến khi đọc tác phẩm này và xem phim cờ thái cực Tae Guk Gi, My Way, của Hàn mình mới cảm nhận hết sức sâu sắc sự vô nghĩa của chiến tranh và cực kì thương cảm, xót xa cho số phận những người lính , dạt từ chiến tuyến này sang chiến tuyến kia , hi sinh mạng sống ( cái cuộc đời chỉ được sống một lần) cho những mục đích nào đó của bọn cầm quyền.
Those Russians certainly know how to write a novel!
Amazing book - incredibly modern given when it was written - almost feminist in places.
Characters are so real, flawed, human and infuriating - plot like the Don, thick and relentless...A book with the power to make you think differently about things in your own life (which is of course hugely different from life in a cossack village or regiment).
Hard to imagine that he has written something so 'in' its time but also so timeless...I'm reading the next one 'The Don flows home to the sea' on my next set of long flights..
A great Russian epic novel about the lives of ordinary people in the time of turmoil, a story about peace, war, life and death! An absolute masterpiece written in a superb language! A Nobel Prize well deserved!
Very complex, I learnt more about Russia from this book than anything else I read. Despite being very anti-Russian at that time, I loved it.
اگر صفحات خسته کنندۀ مربوط به جنگها را صرفنظر کنیم رمان تأثیر گذار و تأثر انگیزی بود با ترجمۀ بی همتای شاملوی بزرگ
Russian literature treasure awarded by the Nobel prize totally deserves to be called one of the best novels of the XXth century.It starts with the First book describing a peaceful living of several Cossack families and Sholokhov makes two people front and center of the story: Grigori and Aksinia.
But now he wants just to be alive, to live with the loved ones, to come away from all those world problems.I recommend this book for those history fans, who want to look beyond, for those who are looking for a good love story and those who want to know Russian culture from the inside.
