https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207682.When_Lightning_Strikes
Meg Cabot's stories are so addictive. I can't believe I haven't read this one sooner!
I’ve read this before and this was only a re-read :) A light breezy read for anyone who doesn’t want anything intense.
It was a very good surprise. I really like Meg Cabot's books but it's always romance/chick lits and that's her first paranormal book I read and I loved it a lot. It has everything that I think a book needs to be good and I can't wait to read the other books from this series. If you want a fantasy book written in a simple and fun way I definitely recommen this book for you.
Она не грубая, нет, и не амбалка-спортсменка, наоборот, весьма маленькая и хрупкая, просто обстоятельства так сложились.
У старшего брата Джесс шизофрения, а потому многие норовят ляпнуть про него что-нибудь эдакое, так что она с детства бросалась на защиту.
За нападки на обидчиков она вечно оказывается среди задержанных после уроков, что тоже ее не особо волнует - ведь вместе с ней остается старшеклассник Роб, и у него есть крутой байк и все такое.
Просто просыпаясь, Джесс вдруг четко осознает, где сейчас находятся пропавшие дети, портреты которых она видела на пакетах молока.
Она сильная, саркастичная, а местами спокойная как удав.
Though it’s obvious she wants to make out with him.Another thing that really sticks out after all this time is how much the world has and hasn’t changed since this series was originally published (the early 200’s, pre 911 days).
I can’t go into to many details because of spoilers, but just know I was completely shaking my head thinking Cabot had never seen an episode of UFO Hunters because if she did she know if you were remotely close to a top secret military base you’d be surrounded and your mission to find the aliens would be aborted.Whatever.It’s still a fun book.
I hate Meg Cabot.
she is a terrible writer.
she doesn't write sentinces, she writes fragments and then puts more fragments at the end to clear up what was perfectly clear in the first place.
she leaves out things that are important.
she doesn't describe stuff.
i still haven't read the last book, my library doesn't have it in right now, but this book got me hooked to a story that was written by (excuse me) a sucky writer.
great story.
now if only she could learn to write.
sentinces, i mean.
i swear i don't write like that normally.)
3.5I liked Jess and seeing how see got herself out of trouble. I enjoyed the humor and shenanigans with the government. I can't wait to continue on with the series to find out how Jess continues to handle her power.
This is a plus for Jess because even though she doesn't have her license, as Tom would say she:So things are going pretty well, sure she has detention for over a month, but Rob just asked if she needed a ride home.
This book sets the stage for Jess dealing with her ability, mainly who to trust, (including the government), her moral responsiblitly and trying to live her life (including convincing Rob to be her boyfriend!)In true Meg Cabot form it's everything you want in a fun teen read: fun, comedy, drama, adventure, superpowers and a hot boy on a motorcycle.
This book was sort of like reading a female Donnie Darko in many ways.
And not only was it an accurately written view of a rebellious girl in high school, it's also a sci-fi novel where a freak lightning storm gives Jessica the power to know where missing kids in town are.
My only complaint is the "the government wants to experiment on people with weird powers" plot.
I've seen it in countless books and movies, every author from Stephen King to Diana G.
It'd be really nice to see a book that takes a more original approach.
I received this book in a subscription box. I looked at it and tossed it into my TBR pile. I thought that it didn't look interesting. That it looked childish, that it would be something that would quickly make its way out of the house once I got around to reading it. Instead, I was pleasantly surprised. It was witty, it was fun, and I've since bought all the other books in the series in order to finish it off. I'm quite looking forward to their arrival.
Oooh. Operative. Very spy like. I enjoyed this book. It wasn't mind blowing but it was quite enjoyable. I liked Jess and some of the time Ruth. I enjoyed her relationship with her family and the hope of romance with Rob. I'm looking forward to the next book.
haven't read this since I was twelve and I cried at every page
First read: have no ideaReread: 2016
V patnácti by se mi to asi líbilo mnohem víc, ale jako oddechovka dobrý :)
Easy to read, has a good flow (as do all Meg Cabot books I've read so far).Good story line, interesting side characters
I don't want to give too much away, but I loved his snarky yet somehow caring personality and the relationship he had with Jess is really sweet.My favorite part of this book was definitely the idea of a teenage girl getting struck by lightening which leaves her with crazy powers.
Maybe not the best ending, but necessary in order to get a great start to the series.No matter how much the paranormal section in the young adult genre grows, Meg Cabot always brings a fresh and adventurous story to the table.
I've read a lot of young adult books, but When Lightening Strikes is such an original story line that I felt like I was being introduced to an awesome new genre.
I wanted to be in her dreams with her, instead of her just telling us what she's dreamt, you know what I mean?From within the first few pages I fell in love with Jessica's personality.
She's out going and I'm as shy as they come."But you know, I think speed limits are really just suggestions." Also, in the beginning there's a lot of I said's and Ruth said's.
Rob, the hot grit with a nice sweet ride plus a sweet, humorous personality.
Once you get to the last page you'll be smiling at the way it ends along with wanting to start reading the next in the series for it's humorous words.
"I can't even tell you how good it felt to see him. It felt even better when he reached through the metal grate, wrapped his fingers around the front of my shirt, dragged me forward, and kissed me through the bars."Sorry," he said, only not looking too sorry, if you know what I mean."  Oh, Meg. Just when I thought I couldn't love anyone more than Suze Simon from the Mediator series, you hand me this. I love this book. Love it, love it, love it.Why, you ask? Let me tell you.Firstly, our protago
Instead of lying low and freaking out about everyone's opinion of her, Jess gets into punch-ups, lands herself in detention and lusts after motorbike-wielding hottie, Rob. She's a rebel, but she also has a brain quite capable of thinking on its own and a strong moral stance, especially when defending her friends.
While the premise itself (getting struck by lightning) isn't exactly awe-inspiring, it is new, but the true merit of the book is the way Meg handles it.
The entire Missing series is well-delivered (the last book less so but that's a whole other story, literally), full of strong characters, believable romance and an enthralling plot-line.
That's why she always spends her after school time in detention.Jessica's life changes completely when a lightning strikes her and she gets a supernatural power to find missing people.
With FBI agents forcing her to help them and reporters waiting outside her house, Jessica has to decide what to do with her powers.I liked some parts of the book, and some parts I didn't.I liked Jessica and I think she is a very likeable main character.
I mean, a lightning strike gives supernatural powers?
How did everybody in Jessica's world believe that?I think that if someone in our world would really be gifted with these powers, nobody would believe him, and especially not the FBI.
Jessica Mastriani is a detention-lifer: not because she's a "Bad Kid", but because she isn't afraid to punch-out anyone who talks smack about her brother, her best friend, or herself.
While walking home from detention with her best friend Ruth, Jessica is struck by lightning and here's where our story really begins.
Thanks to that lightning strike, Jess can now locate missing persons.
I found WHEN LIGHTNING STRIKES on par with Cabot's other young adult novels.
She explains everything rather detailed and thoroughly.While reading this story I kept thinking about Mia. The main character is very down to earth.
Her sense of humor is much like Mia her sense of humor, which explains why she likes the book so much.
I couldn't see the problem in the book as a serious problem because of the funny way it's written.
Sarcastically.(view spoiler)[ I was rather annoyed by Rob. I obviously like him, but he is being difficult about the age thing, since he is on probation.
(hide spoiler)]It scared me that the government/military got hold of Jess.
As anyone that's been following my reviews for some time knows, I'm a fan of Meg Cabot.I like her tough girl heroines.
And when the government learns of Jess' ability, they want her to find some very specific people for them .
Jess has the typical Cabot clueless parents.
Concern over Douglass' well being is the entire focus of this family, even when Jess' abilities are outed to the world.I will read the rest of the series, because I want to see where Cabot will take these characters.
As she gets out of bed, she realizes that she knows where Olivia and Sean are.
The strange thing is she doesn't even know who Olivia and Sean are, so she ignores her dream.Then, as Jess pours milk into her cereal she stares at the milk carton.
She realizs that Sean and Olivia are missing children and Jess somehow knows where they are.
And that you can’t stay anonymous when you are the only person with the answers everyone wants.I enjoyed this book and plan to read the rest of the series.
It was hard for me to put down the book while I was reading it.
Jess is not your typical girl, she has a very unique personality and I don't feel like I'm reading about the same girl in a different story (many characters act alike in books), she's funny and tough, a tomboy type of gal.
I enjoyed Jess's adventure and hope to read the second book.
The only reason why I took away one star was because the story itself started a little to slow for me, it wasn't until probably the middle of the book when the action began to start taking place.
Recommended to girls who want a little adventure and romance in their lives.
semalam namatin buku ini sampe jam 4 pagi...ceritanya menarik...ttg seorang ce..jessica mastriani ya
It made me laugh out loud at times: the main character is pretty hilarious and relatable.
My favourite character had to be Sean though, honestly that boy made me laugh real hard and he was adorable (not in a conventional way lmao, but I thought he was cute, like a baby tiger with sharp teeth).
My only real complaint is that many characters say some questionable things that are offensive sometimes (like Ruth, Mike, her mom), and although they do get called out for it most of the time, the author deals with it rather humorously, making it seem like less of a big deal.
The thing I appreciate the most here, especially as I've read more and more books in the genre, is that the author doesn't mess around with delaying movement in the story.
Most of the plot comes from the fame that Jess gets as a result of her ability (an obvious point from a skeptic's point of view: a real psychic would get noticed), and the fact that some people don't want to be found or are difficult to save.
Jess couldn't give a pig's fart about popularity from what I remember.)
Cabot originally wrote this as Jenny Carroll, and with good reason - it's an edgier read with more grit than her Princess Diaries and Mediator series.
Her heroine, Jess, cusses, spends a lot of time in detention, and just generally likes life a little close to the edge.
I've read both book 1 (this one) and book 2 (Code Name Cassandra) so far, and I by far liked this best of the two, though neither one of them do much for me.
I may read book 3 sometime in the future, but I need some time away from the 1-800 series first.
Jess Mastriani made a mistake: she ducked under her school’s metal bleachers during a storm, and she was struck by lightning.
Now, just by looking at a picture, she can find missing people.
Oops.
And then the FBI hold her hostage and try to make her find missing bad guys for the international war effort.
Double oops.
And all Jess wanted was for bad-boy biker Rob Wilkins to notice her…My opinion on this book (and this series in general) has fluctuated over the years, but ultimately I think I come out in favor of Jess Mastriani and her misadventures.Read the full  When Lightning Strikes  Review
I'm so excited that Meg Cabot has a new Mediator book out!
My fascination with lightning is obsessive enough for me to want to get as close to it as I can, and my family is always yelling at me to get back inside during a storm.
So a book about a girl gaining psychic powers after being struck by lightning is nirvana for me.Add in the fact that the heroine is confident, tough, and sassy and you've got a book about everything that I've always wanted to be.
The icing on the cake is the humor in these books.
What else could anyone want?
