https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3695.Journey_Without_Maps
Graham and Barbara Greene leaving for LiberiaGraham Greene age 31 decides that he needs to go hike around in Liberia to find material for his next book.
Now unknown to Graham, and even at this point unknown to Barbara, she is going to write a book about her experiences on this trip.
A Very Earnest Looking Graham GreeneThey stop off in the Canary Islands on the way to Liberia and to Graham’s mortification they are showing a film based on one of his books.
It has a real British empire, God save the King side to it, there is a definite line between the "White man" and the "Natives", you can see Graham Greene is trying to cross that line and be more sensitive, but it doesn't stop him from treating his team very slightly better than slaves and then he just abandons them at the end to find their own way home.Whilst reading this I was wondering if Graham lost a bet and was forced to go on this journey because right from the start he is focused on the ending.....
Seeing the change in him was interesting, but once he sees the coast his focus changes back to home again.But in his defence he does walk across Africa for 4 weeks, with a case of whiskey and he downs the lot.
So the book has a slogging sameness which, while it may faithfully reproduce his experience of his trek, doesn't make for the greatest literary experience.Finally, the introduction by Paul Theroux is execreble.
Theroux's main point is that Greene was a "dilettante" and a "lucky" traveler, a point Theroux has made in other Greene introductions as well.
What we are meant to take away from the introduction (since Greene would count as a pretty hardcore traveler in most of our books) is the unstated but loudly proclaimed "I Theroux am a REAL traveler and qualified to judge who is lucky and who is REAL".
However, despite the bourgeois background to Green’s travels, his purpose was purely exploratory for the sake of learning and other than a brief period near the end when he was suffering with fever, he trekked the entire distance on foot.Greene traveled into independent Liberia at a time when Europe had already divided up Africa for her own profit and he chose Liberia to explore because it was a nation founded by freed US slaves that presented a unique glimpse of an independent Africa.
Not all was hardship as Greene discovered many a unique native peoples, each with their own distinct dress, dance, and hospitality.
it's a different kind of Graham Greene book, I discovered it when i was going to Liberia 1990 and realized there were very few books on Liberia..Liberia was a soul-wrenching experience, a country forgotten and not so different from when GG was there. I carried the book with me and referred to it often and although the material was anachronistic and colonial, it still had some relevance and when I was over-whelmed by the inherent contradictions of what I was seeing, found it comforting.
Journey Without MapsI’ve been reading some of the comments on Amazon and Goodreads on Graham Greene’s book before writing this.
‘ (Two ‘life’s’ there: tut tut Sherry) He goes on to state at greater length what is generally accepted as true about Greene’s character: that he put lots of time and energy into concealing himself from all those around him, that he kept secrets privately and professionally, that for example he kept two diaries, that you could hardly ever believe his stated motivation for anything.
Greene's description of a journey into the interior of Liberia. While there are a lot of assumptions about African culture and people, Greene is a more acute and honest observer of himself than many travelers. In my opinion, that makes this book worth reading as Greene interrogates the "travel adventure" impulse.
As it happens, before I read this book I had already read (and greatly enjoyed) a book that had been inspired by this one that led a man to travel through Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Liberia in dangerous times [1].
I am greatly fond of travel books, and this book is certainly an interesting one, and one that reveals a great deal about the mixed character of Graham Greene as a writer and as a person.
After that the author talks about his time in Western Liberia (II, 1), his meetings with people along the way (II, 2), including a trip into Buzie country (II, 3), and a slightly illegal trip into Guinea (II, 4).
It might have made more sense to a British audience in the 1930s.But I did like Greene's defense of missionaries, which I think holds true even more today than it did then:"A great deal of nonsense has been written about missionaries.
It seems to be forgotten that Christianity is an Eastern religion to which Western pagans have been quite successfully converted.
A Christian cannot believe in one God for Europe and another God for Africa; the importance of Semitic religion was that it did not recognize one God for the East and another for the West."
When I read Butcher's first book, I similarly attempted the book of the journey that he tried to follow in that volume as well, and gave up because of the way that Stanley came across.
The devils were interesting, as they were in the Tim Butcher book, but when Greene finally gets to talk to someone who knows a lot about the subject, he confesses that he was tired and did not note down much of the conversation, which he could subsequently recall little of.
It was also first published in 1936, before even the outbreak of the Second World War – as you can imagine, white men were neither common nor welcome in Liberia and the neighbouring areas, and so Greene’s work makes for incredibly interesting reading.Sure, it can be tedious at times, purely because it’s hard work to imagine what it was actually like to go on that journey of his, but that doesn’t make it any less interesting – it’s just heavy going, and not the type of book you can read without really thinking.
And it is a bit jarring to consider that his entourage was paid a pittance and made do with offal for their daily fare while Greene apparently included many cases of whiskey for his own benefit, to say nothing of Greene being carried about in a hammock.I recently read Tim Butcher's book about travelling through the Congo and it is remarkable to contrast the conditions in west Africa now and 70 years ago.
Green's jungle is full of life, the villages are peaceful, and the handful of missionaries and doctors from Europe can practice safely.
Butcher's jungle is devoid of life, the villagers are continually fleeing rampaging bands of militia, and NGOs cannot function outside a few safe havens.
He is simply writing about the world as he sees it.
His writing lacks the self-consciousness of modern writers setting their stories in the past so as to try and make a point.
However, he doesn’t shy away from the distinction between white and black or the fact that he is an outsider.
For him these are simply facts: white and black are different, neither better nor worse, just different.
This is refreshing, as most modern writers paint themselves with the biased brush of posterity when exploring race relations.
So despite the refreshing take on race, the reader is very alienated from the action.
A deeply disturbing book to read, mainly because of how blithely racist it (and Graham Greene) are, but I read it to gain insight into one of Greene's more flawed novels that I love: A Burnt-Out Case.
Journey Without Maps was published in 1936, a year after Greene trekked across Liberia, drinking whiskey the whole way, being carried part-way in a hammock by his black porters, and writing about the sexual desirability of Liberian girls, the crazy (to him) village shamans, the yellow fever/malaria/rats/cockroaches/jiggers (chiggers)that all threatened to kill him.
A Burnt-Out Case, set in a leprosy settlement along the Congo River, wasn't published until 1960, but it contains significant traces of Journey Without Maps.
A Brit traveling around Africa with a dozen native porters carrying everything from his knickers to his whiskey and barely ever naming his traveling-companion cousin could have made for quite a comic travel account.
But Greene never plays it for comic effect, and is even defensive that it might be construed as funny.
The abilities that made Greene a notable author are on display but to little effect.
The narrative is framed as retreat into the author's subconscious.
"Primitive" Africa is like retreating to your childhood days as a form of psychotherapy.
Another of the "100 greatest adventure books" that I found it impossible to get through -- I abandoned Greene's book when I was three-quarters of the way through after realizing it wouldn't get much better.I found Greene's general attitude toward those he met on his walk across Liberia and his treatment of his porters to be really irritating. Nothing much of interest happens on his walk across the country either. A grating narrator and a tepid account of what should have been a grand adventure helps make this book extremely dull.
I really, really like the fictional world of Graham Greene's novels but just as I'd never make a true life explorer, on this evidence GG made a lousy chronicler of his real overland travels. I lost the will to live somewhere during his report about a church service in Sierra Leone and didn't make it much further never mind as far as Liberia. Seriously random and seriously dull.
At age 31, Greene traveled to Liberia for four weeks.
The journey across Liberia was vivid and interesting.
The maps contained very little information.
Greene wanted a change in life, maybe searching for inspirations for his next book, he jumped out of the comfort zone.
The journey was not comfortable at all.
He realized the best way to finish the journey was to be flexible at all times.
Greene even fell into a coma near the end of the trip.
Despite all the misery, Greene still found happiness during the trip.
He pondered what travel meant for life.
Traveling was a way to discover one's life.
Greene travels on foot (sort of) through Liberian interior in the 30's and this book is his travelogue.
Greene's travel consists of struggling from one primitive village to the next every day and then hoping to barter/buy food from the local chief for him and his porters.
The travel between villages is rarely mentioned at all so we don't really learn anything about the country itself.
Imagine someone reading a book written in 2016 100 years from now and the writer makes references to various memes or 4/chan inside jokes.
Being Greene, the writing soars at times, but for the most part I struggled with the tedium, which may simply reflect the tedium of the journey itself.
Clearly Greene himself struggles with it.
They weren't common in post-Victorian England, as we all know.Anyway, by the time Greene made the beach at Monrovia, I was only too glad to climb into the surf boat with him and board the steamer that whisked us away from 1930s Liberia.
Graham Greene, English literary great, traveled through Liberia in the 1930s.
We, like Wordsworth, are living after a war and a revolution, and these half-castes fighting with bombs between the cliffs of skyscrapers seem more likely than we to be aware of Proteus rising from the sea."Greene waxes nostalgic about a lost simpler or more innocent time.
He waxes poetic about living on the edge of subsistence; however, he lived and traveled as a white man and a foreigner with cash through the countryside and as a journey with a definite end point, not as a way of life.
Greene si mette in viaggio in Sierra Leone e Liberia negli anni '30 per conto di un'associazione ant
If Greene wanted to relay the monotony of a long walk, he succeeded.Paul Theroux pedestrian introduction was also a horrific way to start the book.
The only thing worth remembering from the introduction is that Greene possibly exaggerated the lack of maps (though Theroux manages to sound jealous about Greene's ability to vacation in unspoilt or virgin lands).If The Lawless Roads is the journey which inspired The Power and the Glory and stands as a hazy reflection to the classic novel; then Journey Without Maps is a pale shadow to the inferior novel The Heart of the Matter (only inferior compared to The Power and the Glory).
Essentially it reads like a diary of his trip through Liberia in the days when you had to have a bunch of men haul all of your stuff as you walk through the jungle.
What makes the book fun is how squeamish Greene is through the entire journey.There is a bit of a message in it.
He talks about how close our civilization can be to the social conditons of the people living in the jungle.
He was psychoanalyzed before his trip so he is close to the idea that there are not many differences between modern man and the people who are living nearer to our more "primitive" natural states.
read as part of 2018 Irish Meridians Challengefollows the author's inter-war period expedition, a four week trek to Liberiareally is an Empire's eye viewnatives are to be pitied, condescended to and exploited in the mainnot much effort to see the reality of life for the local populationslarge entourage to support his journey, portrayed as simplistic, superstitiousinterminible complaining at jungle treks, fortunately his whisky supply just about lasts the journeynot what I was hoping for, not alot of insight into a nation of freed slaves
An interesting exploration of Africa rebounding from colonial conquest (Greene walked through Liberia on foot to see what it was like), it's by no means his best work. Sometimes, the writing is labored in ways that didn't see common to his novels. However, it does showcase the trudge of movement, the ways "civilization" impacted tribal culture, and how the African continent was attempting to recover.
Definitely entertaining writing I just don't understand what he's trying to do. Shows up in west Africa, wanders around with a bunch of freaks getting from this place to that...who gives a shit? Not the best memoir I've ever read by a long shot.
Beautifully written. Some things jarred as they would no longer be considered politically correct - but this is the 1930s. Rather unfortunately, the parts not about Africa are often better than those about Africa.
Greene hikes through the interior of Liberia in 1935. What could possibly go wrong?A great book.
The saga of Englishman Graham Greene's journey through Liberia. An interesting look at early settlements along the coast and villages in the hinterland.
