https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825509.A_Place_Called_Freedom
Follett took me back in time to Scotland and I was that girl working in the mines six days a week.
Then he introduced me to Mac McAsh and I fell deeply in love.
That is the feeling of who Mac is.
That is the essence of Mac who never submitted to the life of servitude he was born into.
I don't understand how Follett does it, but he in so few words creates vivid worlds of texture and smell, of pain and pleasure.
He brings the reader into these worlds and delivers.
Follett viaja entre a Escócia, Inglaterra e os actuais Estados Unidos Americanos, debruça-se essencialmente sobre questões laborais (direitos dos trabalhadores e valor destes na sociedade) e politicas (formas de governação e autonomia das colónias britânicas), sempre tendo como palco o século XVIII.A magistral recriação do ambiente à época é novamente o ponto forte , ao ponto de mentalmente reconstruirmos com pormenor as minas de carvão da Escócia, os fumos constantes das chaminés de Londres e as planícies ventosas que os primeiros colonos encontraram do outro lado do Atlântico.O ponto menos empolgante talvez seja a narrativa que tem como cenário de fundo os Estados Unidos Americanos… O contado até esse momento merecia um capitulo final mais à altura.
Pelo maravilhoso enredo, pelo interesse histórico do mesmo, pela excelente contextualização e pelas fantásticas personagens, este livro merece sem dúvida cinco estrelas.
Na capital, Mack começa a arranjar problemas por difundir as suas perigosas ideias sobre os direitos dos trabalhadores e sobre como a autoridade do governo devia vir do consentimento do povo, Ao chamar a atenção de homens importantes, Mack é vítima de uma cilada, julgado e condenado a ser transportado para uma colónia americana onde será vendido como escravo, juntamente com muitos outros criminosos.
Lizzie viaja no mesmo barco, antecipando uma vida feliz e de liberdade na propriedade que o sogro passou para o marido na Virgínia.
3.5 stars - It was really good.I didn't even notice until I sat down to write this review, that I did not make any highlights in this novel.
While Follett may not have a literary flair that makes me highlight beautiful passages, this story grabbed my attention from the beginning and kept me captivated until the end.
I thoroughly enjoyed the storytelling within this novel and learned a great deal about the atrocious coal mining work environment in Scotland during the mid 1700s.
It was also rather refreshing to have a heroine that was feisty and independent without her having to be a fighting warrior bad ass to prove it.
Tenho sentimentos mistos em relação a este livro. Não é brilhante. Não está excepcionalmente bem escrito. Tudo é cliché: o triângulo amoroso, o vilão, as características das personagens....Contudo, li-o de uma assentada e conseguiu-me cativar. Uma leitura de verão perfeita, creio.
A sweeping saga of love, greed, betrayal and revolt combined with period drama is worth a read.
This is a story of Malachi McAsh who is a Scottish slave working in the coal mines of Scotland owned by a greedy and wily man George Jamisson and his sons.
He falls in love with Lizzie Hallim, an aristocrat lady who is married to the villain of the story, Jay Jamisson, the son of George Jamisson.
This is the story of McAsh journey to freedom.The characters are well developed and I loved the character of Lizzie who is portrayed as dare-devil and tom-boyish.
Recomendo este livro a quem gosta de romance histórico e de Ken Follett. A genialidade deste escritor está bem patente neste livro em cada página lida.Nos finais do século XVIII, na Escócia, existia um forma peculiar de escravidão, os proprietários das minas de carvão eram também “donos” dos trabalhadores e suas famílias. As crianças assim que nasciam estavam condenadas a trabalhar durante 21 anos e um dia para recuperar a liberdade. Mack McAsh vai lutar contra este poder instituído pagando caro por esta ousadia.
Oh, honestly...How did this book ever make it past an editor and onto a shelf and, consequently, onto my Kindle?
My Kindle doesn't deserve this!What could have been SUCH a cool story feel painfully flat due to writing that was, in my opinion, elementary at best.
Eye-roll worthy times 1000.All tell and absolutely, positively no show whatsoever.Let me give you some recurring examples:'She felt afraid.''She felt cold.''She felt strange.''He felt exhausted.'I'm not kidding.
And there are so, so many more just like it throughout the book.I just couldn't do it.I would love to say something positive, but I couldn't see the story for the inept writing...
Respirar fundo depois desta leitura!Estória e personagens fabulosos, uma escrita sempre excelente (a que o autor já nos habituou). Mais um livro a não perder.
Ken Follett has created another great book, filled with strong characters and an engaging plot. We travel to Scotland and learn how cruel the coal workers and their families were treated. Follett introduces his strong, independent characters, especially the main female! Freedom is briefly attained in London, England. An ocean crossing on the Rosebud brings the characters to Virginia. The search for freedom is the main theme. "I'll go anywhere that's not Scotland - anywhere a man can be free......to be your own man, and nobody's slave."4 stars for this page turner.
A Pedra Angular da VidaA Liberdade é uma escolha Dura mas a Única que vale a pena. Sem ela a Vida não acontece...
tutti elementi splendidamente incastonati in un contesto storico davvero esistito: quello delle miniere di carbone inglesi e delle colonie americane della seconda metà del 1700, l'epoca in cui la vita di un minatore e di uno schiavo valevano meno di uno straccio.Il romanzo, pur avendo Mack MacAsh con protagonista assoluto, può benissimo esser visto come un racconto corale: infatti, mentre leggeremo le peripezie di Mack verso la sua voglia di libertà (poveraccio, ne passerà davvero di tutti i colori), seguiremo anche le sorti di Lizzie Hallim (donna libera ed emancipata, che non accetta la vita che il destino gli ha tracciato) e di tutta la famiglia Jamisson, con padre e figli uno più odioso dell'altro.
Why did I read this book, give it a 5-star rating, and put it in my “Favorites” shelf list?First, it is a Ken Follett material; I believe his only mission in life is to sway people into loving anything he writes— I say this because it has certainly worked for me.
Lastly, the book’s hero, Malachi “Mack” McAsh, hails from Scotland, and I devoured anything Scottish during the time I was reading this novel.A combination of all four reasons gives me a story that is both compelling and worth reading.The story starts with Mack wanting to be free from the chains that bind him to coal mining slavery and getting severely punished for it.
Este livro é antigo, editado em 1997, portanto o Follett ainda não tinha muita experiência em comparação com a Trilogia "O Seculo" e "Mundo Sem Fim". Mas este livro não desilude, o ambiente histórico e as personagens são cativantes, é perfeito para o Verão.Gostei bastante.
Follett's characters are so extreme-you are either a saint or a really despicable human....not much in between. Highly predicatable you knew where this one was going writhin the first few pages.
Mais uma estreia... sim o meu primeiro Follet! e gostei bastante! Escrita fluída que prende o leitor. Gostei e tenho mais uns dele para ler.
but the 'lower' classes were definitely the winners on family and friendship mack is a slave by birth working in the mines of scotland but he does not intend to stay.
also there is lizzie, a rebellious female who is engaged to jay his landlord's son separate worlds but their lives r thrown together time after time, firstly in london where mack rebels to protect his teams who remove coal from the ships which is vital for the country to survive then in virginia where he works as a slave on jay and lizzie's tobacco plantation once again he must escape and this time it is with lizzie.
An informative historical adventureFollett's  A Place Called Freedom  was one of the most requested books when I worked at a now-defunct used book store more than 10 years ago. I finally got around to reading it and I can see why it was in such demand. Follett introduces the reader to the turbulent politics on 1760s England, Scotland and America. He throws in a liberal dose of romance and the reader will be reminded of the Tom Cruise / Nicole Kiddman epic movie  Far and Away . There are plenty o
I finally got around to reading it and I can see why it was in such demand.
Follett introduces the reader to the turbulent politics on 1760s England, Scotland and America.
Nevertheless, it's a great read and unique enough to stand up in its own right.
I recommend it to anyone who is interested in a view of England's politics and turmoil on the eve of the American Revolution - it puts America's arguments for revolution in a clearer context - it even strengthens them.
On top of that, the book is a great read.
Mack McAsh is a young man born into slavery in eightieth century Scotland and refuses to accept a life of servitude and hardship working down a Scottish coal mine.
This is the bases for a fantastic fast paced story that moves from the Scottish coal mines to the back streets of eightieth century London, before moving on to the state of Virginia just prior to the American revolution.
The story is underlined by the beginnings of social unrest in Scotland and London.
I do enjoy reading Ken Follett books but in my view this is one of his best and I couldn’t put it down.
What I thought would be an enthralling, epic historical saga, turned out to be a dismally cheap disappointment.
All of the credible historical elements - the pitiful and heartbreaking plight of Scottish miners, the commerce corruption within Britain's upper echelon, and the shipping of Scottish/British convicts to America as seven-year indentured slaves, bought and sold at auction - were grossly overshadowed by dime-store romance, lust conquests.
A bitter disappointment.
However, if Follet's other 'saga' type historicals are written in the same soap opera vein as A Place Called Freedom, I think I'll pass....TWO ** Could Have Been An Epic Historical, But Wasn't ** STARS
This book is immensely interesting and hard to put down.A beautiful story line,believable characters and simple English had no option rather than to give it 4 solid Stars.
Uma magistral descrição do ambiente no séc. XVIII. A luta de classes. A ida para o "novo mundo". Ken Follet mais uma vez não desilude
A Place Called Freedom follows the character Mack from a coal mine in Scotland to London where he struggles to earn decent pay for himself and other laborers.
I especially thought the story fell short when Follett decided not to describe Mack's journeys in detail.
We learn nothing of his trip from Scotland to London other than how long it took.
The characters, especially Mack, are interesting but not as developed as they could be in order to really feel that you "know" them and care about them.
The novel begins in the awful dark, gray landscape of the coal mines in Scotland, progresses to London (which has its own issues regarding social/class disparities), and ends up in the colony of Virginia.
When I was a kid, I was always fascinated by the vague line on the map that ran along the western boundary of the colonies.
"Wilderness" was to the west - and every textbook seemed to have a slightly different version of where this land seemed to be in the l700s.
This novel ends up dancing around that vague line and has given me a better sense of what the land was like back then.
I liked this book for a different reason then I like some other book sIve read.This was the last christmas gift I ever gave my father for christmas 1995, I was very sick in 1996 and didnt get gifts for any one, he died before the next christmas, I had not been thinking of it or able to read it until recently, I found the book that I gave him , I never asked him what he thought about it, that is one of the best things about reading a book is being able to talk with some body about it.I liked the story I dont think I as much unless it fit into my life the way it did.
it will always be special to me more for that.I did like the story though, now have will try to make a point of it to read a book before I give it to them.
Bei manchen Büchern, weiß man schon nach den ersten Seiten, wie sie ablaufen und enden.
Bei diesem hier weiß man es schon nach dem Lesen der kurzen Inhaltsangabe auf dem Rücken des Buches.
Und das hat mich doch etwas überrascht, handelt es sich doch bei Ken Follett um einen der bekannteren Autoren historischer Romane.
Bestseller sind nicht gleich gute Literatur, schon klar, aber was hier geboten wird, ist katastrophal.
Die Geschichte ist flach, die Personen eindimensional, die guten sind edelmütig bis zum Schluß und die schlechten Menschen kriegen ihre gerechte Strafe.
Das ist ein historischer LIEBESroman, und dabei ist das historische Zeug nur schmückendes Beiwerk.
So eine richtige Schnulzenschwarte.
What didn't quite live up to expectations was Follett's development of his characters.
Follett doesn't do well as developing the gray areas of the human character.
Since I love to see characters evolve throughout a book, and experience their growth and development (in either direction, good or bad), I have come to appreciate that shades of gray that make up any human character.
His story development can drag at times as well.
But I did love the story subject, and the time period in which it is set.
I also love Follett's grasp of the time frame and his presentation of the settings.
Não esperava render-me a sua escrita, depois de ter lido "Um mundo sem fim" ( uma das suas obras mais afamadas).
Mas apaixonei-me perdidamente pela jornada de Mack e Lizzie.Não costumo ler histórias sobre escravatura, a par das do holocausto, são histórias bastante dramáticas e que emocionam.
Felizmente Follet não exagerou no drama e nos deu uma bela história de amor entre Mack e Lizzie.
Eu esperava que ela ficasse com o Jay, apesar de amar o Mack.
Mack, o protagonista desta história,é um escrava de que trabalho na minha.
I loved The Pillars of the Earth and so hoped I’d love this one too!
In fact, I feel like I’m being really generous with three stars.A Place Called Freedom is a fantastic and intriguing idea!
The idea, however, is followed up with a very predictable story, elementary writing (came off more as half assed) and bad dialog.
I never really “felt” the characters (rolled my eyes a few times) nor did I “see” any of the places traveled to.
The story also just ends.
Like, really?
If you are looking for a good historical fiction by Follett, stick to The Pillars of the Earth.
Come sempre Follett mi affascina con un mix di avventura, storia e amore. Un romanzo ambientato alla fine del settecento tra Scozia, Inghilterra e Virginia; epoca che segnerà grandi cambiamenti politici e sociali. Rilevanti le tematiche trattate in questo libro: i diritti dei lavoratori, la schiavitù, la pena di morte, la deportazione. Con una scrittura semplice e molto descrittiva si riesce ad entrare dentro la storia e a lottare insieme ai protagonisti per superare i diversi ostacoli e per trovare alla fine.... un luogo chiamato libertà. Unico neo il finale, mi è sembrato scontato e un po’ sbrigativo.
