https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46438.The_Last_Templar
Are you tired of reading books that you have to think too much about? Do you like obvious details being overtly and continuously pounded into your head? If you answered yes to these question then I recommend The Last Templar. Raymond Khoury thrusts the plot of this book upon the reader in much the same way the creepy guy on the crowded subway car thrusts his junk against your ass every time the car shakes. You're not positive that he's doing it on purpose but you still feel violated and used.
By the time I turned the last page I understood why it doesn’t quite work for many people.Doesn’t work for men- Because the writer attempted to throw in a romance between the FBI agent called in to solve the case of the mystery horseman dressed as Templar knights who raided NY Met committing gruesome murder along the way and the archeologist Tess, who just happened to be right where the one significant thing was stolen.
It had enough in it to keep the pages turning- mostly because I wanted to figure out what the big secret was that the Catholic Church wanted to keep hidden.
Despite many claims that this is a "Da Vinci Code" knock-off, Khoury had this concept long before Dan Brown and his story is more historically based and plausible than the far-fetched "Da Vinci Code".The characters are believable, flawed but valiant, and the villains are underworld types who thrive on carnage, destruction and the accumulation of wealth.
Khoury should continue writing, and should he do so, his future works should be eagerly anticipated by thriller, mystery and historical fiction lovers.Some people out there are claiming that this book is too much like the work of Dan Brown; I disagree.
Everything from the characters, to the writing, to the plot is lacking in substance.
The only good part about this book is the little history it gives you on the Templars and the Church, and even that is done in broad strokes and without passion.
I simply cannot believe that people choose to think this is good writing and story-telling.
There's plot holes in this story as big as my head, the main character is one of the dumbest women I've ever read of and the dialogue is at about the level of a third-grader.
I thought I was reading a screenplay rather than a novel, only I lacked the benefit of an actor's depth giving any nuance or ambiguity to cliche behaviors and descriptions.The obvious target audience is Da Vinci Code fans.
This is a major rip-off of that novel in overall plot construction and flow, and it lacks even the less than stellar level of sophistication and adventure in the Dan Brown bestseller.
If you are interested in a literary work (beyond the Dan Brown books) that explores such a possibility in a more compelling, thoughtful, and aesthetically pleasing way, don't read this, look to the Golden Compass series by Pullman.
বেশ দরুত গতির একটা থরিলার। খুব আকরষনীয় পলট না। ভিঞচি কোড এর পলট এর সাথে আমার কাছে অনেকটাই মিল আছে বলে মনে হয়েছে। কিনতু ভিঞচি কোডের থরিল টা নাই। তারপরেও ছোট পরিসরে বেশ ভালভাবেই কাহিনী এগিয়ে গেছে।বইটাতে সটোরি টেলিং টা শুরুর দিকে যত ভাল ছিল শেষের দিকে তত ভাল হয় নি। পরায় সময় কাকতালীয় ঘটনার উপসথাপনা পলট কে মারাতমক কষতিগরসত করেছে। আর টিপিকযাল থরিলার বই এর মত এত ছোট বইএও রোমানস এর উপসথিতি অপরয়োজনীয় মনে হইছে আমার। বই টাতে যে ফিলোসফি দেখান হইছে তাও আমার কাছে ভাল লাগে নাই। আমি রকষনশীল বলেই হয়ত। আসলে কেন শ
বেশ দ্রুত গতির একটা থ্রিলার। খুব আকর্ষনীয় প্লট না। ভিঞ্চি কোড এর প্লট এর সাথে আমার কাছে অনেক্টাই মিল
Odlicna knjiga, tematika kojoj nema kraja vec stoljecima i nikad ni nece biti. Jedina zamjerka..... E pa nadam se da se neki nece uvrijediti, al zasto bas uvijek crkva mora biti ta koja pobjecuje!
Ένα βάσανο έχω πριν φύγω να πάω μία εκδρομή, ποιό θα είναι το βιβλίο που θα πάρω μαζί μου.
Και ο Τελευταίος Ναΐτης ήταν ένα βιβλίο που μήνες ολόκληρους μου είχε μπει στο μάτι.
Το έπαιρνα, το άφηνα, μέχρις οτου ανακάλυψα πως το είχα δύο φορές αγορασμένο (Ναίτες στον τίτλο ένεκα) οπότε την τελευταία φορά που συναντηθήκαμε, το τσίμπησα.Και (σχεδόν...) το λάτρεψα!Χωρίς να θέλω να μπω σε λεπτομέρειες για την υπόθεση του, αν κάποιος μου έλεγε να περιγράψω την πλοκή του με 10 λέξεις θα έλεγα, «χάσαμε τον Ιντιάνα Τζόουνς, και τη Χαμένη Κιβωτό την κυνηγάει η Λάρα Κροφτ».
I was really interested in the concept that Jesus wrote a book in the Bible stating that he was human not Son of God and the Vatican wanted to destroy it.
It got bogged down in some very farfetched plot devices that won't even make sense in a movie.
This book was written first as a screenplay then turned into a book when the author decided it would be better to market the book that way.
I didn't like the use of flashbacks to tell us the story of the Templars' letters.
You can seriously tell that this author wanted a movie out of it.
I hardly ever buy a book and not finish it. But put this book in that category.It never got rolling. The characters were hard for me to keep straight... not a good sign. The idea is good but I don't think I got deep enough into it (only about 65 pages) to appreciate it. I can't recommend this book... okay I can... to someone on a long plane or train ride. It will get you from sitting there mindlessly reading and turn it into a peaceful slumber.Sorry--- but does anyone want to buy it from me? paperback.
I didn’t really like this book and I’ll try to be fair as I explain why:The premise sounds good.
FBI agent Sean Reilly and archaeologist Tess Chaykin set out to discover who is behind the elaborate attack and what they want with the decoder.Sounds good right?
Looking back on the book now I’ve finished it I’m asking myself why I didn’t enjoy it.
Unsurprising really; did I mention she was stupid?Good points?Well as I said the concept isn’t a bad one and the big secret is a bit different to the usual religious conspiracy novels.
"The Last Templar" was a pretty good book - standard adventure/suspense fare.
It was pretty well written, although the second half of the book wasn't as enjoyable as the first.
It also has several chapters of boring historical/religious background (right in the middle of the second half) that does not help in sustaining excitement, even if it is necessary for the plot.
All in all, the book keeps your attention throughout most of its length, and is worth picking up at a used bookstore, if not at Barnes & Noble.
I found this to be a most interesting read. As a well written suspense piece should, it contains twists right to the very end. Khoury does a very nice job with this and the entire Templar speculation. I enjoyed this quite a bit. to say any more might require a spoiler notation.
So when you give away the bad guy half way through the book, instead of at the end, when the climax is supposed occur (again, referring to said genre), well, you sort of lose your audience's interest.
It was...I suppose, in a rambling, messy sort of way.
And just when you think it is all over, the bad guy shows up and everything gets wrapped up with a neat little bow...
Just once, I'd like it if the crisis weren't averted, if the bad guy didn't die or at minimum get his/her due.
I suppose that is why I liked The Winner Stands Alone.
Blah, blah, whatever.
This seems like The Da Vinci Code all over again, except the writing is marginally better.
That's not saying much, though, considering just how hard that book sucked.
The Last Templar doesn't quite meet DVC levels of suckery; it had potential, I thought, but the writing turned out to be too technical, for lack of a better way to put it.
As a result, the book didn't hold my interest and I ended up abandoning it after the first couple chapters.
It seems like most reviewers here picked up this book out of desperation at an airport.
Haven’t we all done that?
In my case, the book was left behind at the house by a friend (who didn’t warn me).
I was in the mood for a ‘DaVinci Code’ clone—so why not?
I’ll tell you why not: it’s crap.
I would give it to a thrift shop, but then I’d be afraid someone might pick it up for a quarter and read it.
I wouldn’t wish that on anyone (well, maybe one person I have in mind), so I will use the pages for packaging material in the next box I have to mail.
"The Last Templar" begins with what Booklist called "one of the most gripping opening scenes among recent thrillers." Four horsemen dressed in Knights Templar regalia steal artifacts from a Metropolitan Museum of Art show of Vatican treasures, including a "decoder." The other story line focuses on the last days of the Knights Templar as the Holy Land is "lost" with the fall of Acre in 1291 and the subsequent pilgrimage of a few surviving knights to safeguard the Templars' treasure.Publisher's Weekly was less kind than Booklist, saying that in the "war between the Catholic Church and the Gnostic insurgency drags on in this ponderous 'Da Vinci Code' knockoff." Many readers criticized Dan Brown in "The Da Vinci Code" for constantly stopping the otherwise full-speed action of the book while one character filled in another character about the secrets of Mary Magdalene, the Grail, the actions of the Catholic Church, and Jesus' bloodline.In my view, "The Last Templar" carries such backstory diversions to an extreme.
He is drawn to a meeting of sorts where the Grand Master is dying and told by his guardian and mentor that they are to leave, taking a small ornate chest.
What happens next is total chaos as she is witness to the entrance of the four horsemen and watches as the guard approaches them...and then his beheading in front of a huge crowd there for the event.
Sean is to become one of the two main characters of this story as he takes over the case.
Tess is drawn into the case because she witnessed something unusual, and then her innate detective instincts won't allow her to leave it alone.
Πολλοί εμπλεκόμενοι που κινούνται ανεξάρτητα.Ταυτόχρονη δράση σε πολλαπλά πεδία.Πολύ κατανοητή γραφή
This book is not only a hunt for long last treasure, but people who are trying to make their mark on society.
Two different people trying to find one treasure to make their mark in the history books.
This book was one of the best I have read because of the non-stop thrill Khoury puts into it.
I could never put myself in the position of Chaykin or Reilly, trying to find a treasure but being hunted down at the same time.
In my mind, Khoury has made his mark in the world of books by creating such a wonderful story.
I really liked reading this (a few years back). Its historical background mixed with the mystery of the Templars - those bad assed warrior priests...my kind of read! I won't re-cap the story here, as one can read the synopsis. I will say that it is just as good, if not better, than The Da Vinci Code.
Predicable! But ok.
Perhaps the worst novel I have ever read. It makes Dan Brown look like an elegant stylist and a profound historian.
Bukan main, dalam buku setebal 668 halaman ini, Raymond berhasil menyajikan ramuan yang padu antara sejarah, logika, dan tentu saja imajinasi yang kreatif untuk mempertanyakan kebenaran sebuah kitab suci, yaitu Injil.
Mereka menemukan satu persatu penunggang kuda mati serta indikasi bahwa rotor yang dicuri berhubungan dengan kunci rahasia besar para Ksatria Templar yaitu Injil yang ditulis langsung oleh Yesus sendiri.Karena diprediksi bahwa Injil Kristus ini memiliki isi yang bertolak belakang dengan keyakinan masyarakat sekarang, maka banyak pihak mati-matian untuk mengenyahkannya.
Lembar-lembar perkamen tulisan asli Yesus ini, isinya benar-benar sensitif dan berbeda dengan injil yang ada sekarang.
So finden Reilly und Tess zwar ein Dokument, doch anstelle des Originals folgt eines dieser ziemlich schwammigen Templerkapitel aus Sicht des Martin de Carmaux, der auch das letzte Wort bekommt.
Ein geschickterer Erzähler hätte sicher was aus der Geschichte machen können, da mich die anderen Plots von Herrn Khoury nicht interessieren war das wohl das einzige, was ich mir von ihm angetan habe.
I stumbled upon Raymond Khoury while searching sites on authors similar to Dan Brown.
Mr. Khoury seems like an all-around down to earth, amazing guy, and his books reflect that.
The fact that there is a direct sequel to this book, is making it hard to not skip his other books in between, and start reading that one instead (The Templar Salvation).
I do appreciate though that he jumps around a bit between series and stand alone novels, instead of just shoveling series books one after another like so many other authors.
But I got over my annoyance and continued to read.I did quite like it, but I wish that the 'big reveal', the mystery waiting to be solved, the thing that it all hinged on ...
I wish that had been something original.
Instead, I ended up mildly disappointed with it being the same old, same old - maybe my fault for reading so much conspiracy theory stuff!
However, I quite liked the characters and the story was mildly entertaining, even if the author's style sometimes grated a little.
I'm a sucker for any knights templar related fiction. This one fit the bill nicely without shattering the earth or taxing my brain too heavily. A pleasant light read for those who gobbled up all of Dan Brown's books and are hungry for more of basically the same meal, give or take a couple appetizers.
If you are not steeped in the Templar lore -- as I was not -- this is a rollicking good way to entertain yourself as you catch up on it. And you might get caught up in the whole tangle of theories about them that has apparently spawned a whole library of reading about them.
Wow, este libro tiene de todo, templarios, arqueólogos, también está presente el FBI, autoridades de la iglesia, etc.Creí que me iba a costar leerlo, pero la verdad es que una vez que lo empecé me atrapó enseguida.Le doy una puntuación de 4/5 porque habían algunas cosas en la trama que no me cerraron del todo, a pesar de eso, te hace quedarte leyendo más de la cuenta solo para saber cuál es el gran secreto.Sin dudas fue una lectura entretenida.
