https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28815371-the-mothers
i get free books all the time - as gifts, as review copies from authors or publishers or on the free shelves at work, as people move out of my building and leave 'em on the radiator in the foyer, and although i am always grateful for freebies, i don't love them all or feel guilted into gratitude-uprating.
The story follows two teenagers, Nadia and Luke, who fall in love as teenagers and how they come together and fall apart over the years.
This is also a novel about a community and a church community and a friendship between Nadia and her best friend Aubrey, and the sorrows of motherless girls.
I loved the voice and the storytelling and how Bennett is able to hold the story she wants to tell together over the course of a decade.
This is going to be one of the best books published this year and is one you're going to want to read.
A girl nowadays has to get nice and close to tell if her man ain’t shit and by then it might be too late.
We were girls once.
It’s exciting, loving someone who can never love you back.
Freeing, in its own way.
No shame in loving an aint-shit man, long as you get it out of your system good and early.
A tragic woman hooks into an aint-shit man, or worse, lets him hook into her.
He will drag her until he tires.
He will climb atop her shoulders and her body will sag from the weight of loving him.
Brit Bennett - from her site Oceanside has a small town feel, made even more so by the Greek chorus narrators, the elder mothers of Upper Room, the church that Nadia and her father attend.
The mothers feel somewhat spectral, but some of them get involved in very material ways throughout the story.
Both Nadia and Luke contend with feelings about the abortion over the years, wondering what their lives might have become if they had raised a baby.
What might Nadia’s life have looked like if her mother had lived?
Yet for me, this debut novel is a classic example of “the emperor has no clothes.” The book focuses on three teens: Nadia, whose mother killed herself for unknown reasons, her boyfriend Luke, and her best friend Aubrey who is pious and estranged from her own mother.
And there’s no doubt that Brit Bennett can tell a good story.The premise of that story is found in a blurb on her book jacket –“must we always live in servitude to the decisions of our youngest selves, and to the communities that have parented us.” To buy into that premise, as presented by Ms. Bennett, we must believe this: that an abortion, at age 17, is so extraordinarily emotionally traumatic that it overshadows future accomplishments and relationships and causes someone to act compulsively enough to betray a sister-of-the-heart and one’s own deeply-held values.One example: here's Nadia, ruminating obsessively about the fetus she aborted.
I absolutely devoured this book.–Beth O’Brienfrom The Best Books We Read In March 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/04/04/riot-r...
I’m glad I read this.— Susie Rodarmefrom The Best Books We Read In January 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/01/riot-r...
This is my favourite book not just of the month but also of the year.— Claire Handscombefrom The Best Books We Read In December 2016: http://bookriot.com/2017/01/03/riot-r...
The characters are simply living and we’re just matching them do it.–Chelsea Hensley from The Best Books We Read In October 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/10/31/riot-r...
*— Derek Attigfrom The Best Books We Read In May 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/06/01/riot-r...
I'd rate this between 4 and 4.5 stars, closer to the latter.There's an incredible sense of longing that pervades Brit Bennett's terrifically compelling debut novel,  The Mothers . There's longing for love of all kinds—maternal, romantic, even the love of good friends—a longing for answers, a longing to find one's place in the world, and a longing for truth. But getting what you think you want doesn't always make things turn out right.Nadia Turner is smart, destined for a future far better than h
Aubrey and Nadia develop an intensely close bond, yet there is one secret that each girl never reveals to the other, secrets that affect them at every turn."...she too understood loss, how it drove you to imagine every possible scenario that might have prevented it."When Nadia leaves for college, she doesn't come home for several years, and when she does, all of her relationships are more complicated than they were when she left.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Nadia Turner is introduced to unimaginable grief as a teenager. None of the vices she turns to as coping mechanisms have any real consequence, until her dalliance with the pastor's son, Luke Sheppard, forces her to make a difficult decision. The byproduct of their liaison is something Nadia keeps to herself, even withholding it from her best friend, Aubrey Evans. But the secret follows Nadia into adulthood,
They hover above the story like sages, imparting divine wisdom to readers while passing judgment on the characters.
Their presence gives the story a personal, intimate quality, as if the reader were gossiping with old friends on a lazy Sunday afternoon.
The Mothers questions whether decisions made in our youth must haunt us forever and asks if we can break free from the communities that parented us, tackling both questions through an engaging and poignant narrative.
What makes the Literary Box special are the notes written by the author of the feature book.
These notes give readers unique insights into the book that only the author would know.
Gossip and opinions, they and Nadia are our narrators.I belong to a subscription service called Quarterly and every three months an author curates the box.
Brit Bennett was the curator for this box and she included personal notes on stickies, placed in various places in the book.
She based our narrators, the mothers, on the most judgmental, people she knew.
The mistakes we make when we are young are sometimes hard to forget, fill us with regret, a longing to go back and change things.
Of course we can't, we must learn to move forward, as do the three young people in this novel.
At the beginning of the novel-Nadia is holding in her sadness about her mother's death ....which leads to her involvement with Luke.
The story follows Nadia, Aubrey, Luke -- each connected and each dealing with universal themes: pain, loss, shame, hopes, love, and dreams.The Church ladies - older mothers - give a narrative voice in certain chapters --giving their perspective during their prayer group about the younger generation.
This novel is an interesting look into the modern African American community....in Southern California- off to College in Michigan -- back to Los Angeles to care for Nadia's sick father.
There are many types of mothers in this novel as their are women.
Nadia becomes best friends before she heads off to college with the most church-going girl in town.
(But would totally love to discuss this one in spoilers in the comment section) Sorta like the "Church Mothers" in this book discuss the goings on in these peoples lives.Now I will discuss how I felt about the book.
I liked Nadia when she was a teenager.
I didn't really like any of these characters enough to give two rats about what happened to them.
I did like the first half of the book.
But those moments are few and far between in this story of hard decisions, lifelong consequences, and the unbreakable bonds that humans share.I felt like this book had a lot of melodrama; many scenes don't feel authentic.
There were a few passages I made note of because of how expertly Bennett was able to articulate a feeling, a thought, a passing moment between two characters.
I liked it, but it might have been a tad overdone.Nevertheless, a beautifully written story (though a slightly forgettable plot) with glimmering moments that show promise for Bennett's future.
We have run tongues over teeth to savor that last littlebit as long as we could, and in all our living, nothing has starved us more.”Nadia Turner is seventeen the year her mother kills herself, leaving herself and her father behind with an ever-changing, never-ending list of unanswered questions which all boiled down to one: Why?
Just tales, maybe, except for one we now know is true: she spent her senior year of high school rolling around in bed with Luke Sheppard and come springtime, his baby was growing inside her.”Decisions must be made.
The story is very emotional, the characters filled with a deep longing, regret, and desire.
The reader is like a spectator as the characters live through life’s ups and downs, make life altering choices, experience love, friendship, betrayal, and cope with the consequences.
It's a sad story, but one that describes life and the repercussions of our decisions.
The writing is sharp, but, deep character analysis is minimal.
Still, I do appreciate that this is a debut novel, and the author certainly has some writing chops.
The story centers around three young adults growing up in Southern California.Nadia Turner is a seventeen year old senior in high school.
Nadia becomes involves with twenty-one year old Luke Sheppard.
During employment at the local chapel, Aubrey Evans becomes Nadia’s best friend.
This wonderful novel explores friendships, secrets, loss and shame.The book is narrated in part by the elderly women, or “mothers” of the church.
These women keep track of the gossip from the Upper Room Chapel where these families congregate.
The Mothers is a story about people and how life happens while we are living it.
The book is surprisingly layered as it touches upon the girl's life as she grows up, the father's life as he grows and mourns for his child and his youth, and the best friend who they ultimately kept in the dark for so long.
The mother may not have been able to go to colleges of her dreams and travel, but it shows that it was not the things that 'held her back' that kept her from ever feeling whole.An added touch of fun was I read this through a book box subscription.
It made it feel like I was reading the book while randomly calling up the author to chat with them about random things when I read them.
In truth, this isn’t really the type of book I’d normally pick up.
Nadia is bright and destined for a big college – she’s also attractive, a fact Luke spots very early on.
And as events play out their lives are destined to become entwined, but before that Nadia finds herself pregnant as a result of a careless night of sex with Luke.
As we will see, the choice she makes will significantly impact not just her and Luke but Aubrey too.The story initially moves slowly as events unfold, relationships are built and decisions are made.
I was not sure I wanted to read this book at all because of some negative reviews and comments in a discussion thread.
I loved the different definitions and stories of mothers (the author said she had 100 more pages of Mo and her wife's story that she had to cut, I'd love to see that in another novel).
And the pressure or absence of motherhood also had an effect.So here I am, way more impressed than I expected, glad I read it, hoping some can reconsider some of their assumptions of the author's intentions.
I was sent this book as part of a Quarterly.co box for review.
3.5 StarsIn the Goodreads’ description of this book they use the word "dazzling," by no means was I "dazzled" by this story, but I was entertained.
Brit Bennett has created a story full of lies, deep sadness and lifelong regrets which become heavy burdens for some of the characters.
The book mainly focuses on three main characters ranging in age from the late teens to early twenties, which gave me the feeling, at times, that I was reading a YA novel.
Don't get me wrong, there is some heavy plot lines here, such as suicide and abortion, but the ages of the characters and some of the scenarios in the story kept throwing me off.
★★★   “The book, I think, is about this central question of how girls grow into women when the female figures who are supposed to usher you into womanhood aren’t there. How girls come of age with that absence. And it’s about how communities are shaped by loss, this thing I keep writing about—how in moments of grief, community can be both a source of comfort and a source of oppression. My main character feels this responsibility to her community yet wants to escape it at the same time. And I was
“The book, I think, is about this central question of how girls grow into women when the female figures who are supposed to usher you into womanhood aren’t there.
Overall, I liked The Mothers and especially enjoyed reading the relationship dynamics written into this story in terms of family, friendship, church body, and a conservative small town.
This was an interesting read that was both entertaining and thought provoking.
If you enjoy reading a variety of themes within the literary fiction and women's fiction genres, check it out!My favorite quote:“Was that all it took, kneeling at the altar and asking for help?
"It was strange, learning the contours of another’s loneliness. You could never know it all at once; like stepping inside a dark cave, you felt along the walls, bumped into jagged edges."This was a depressingly lyrical book about the unlikely love between two young people, and an equally unlikely friendship between two young girls. Set in a small all-black community in Southern California circa 2008, the narrators are a group of older church women from the Upper Room church (attended by all the
You could never know it all at once; like stepping inside a dark cave, you felt along the walls, bumped into jagged edges."This was a depressingly lyrical book about the unlikely love between two young people, and an equally unlikely friendship between two young girls.
"When we first heard, we thought it might be that type of secret, although, we have to admit, it had felt different.
Although I found the book to be well-written and deep, the characters didn't pull me completely in.
I was invested enough to finish it, which is always a good sign, as I will discontinue a book within ten pages of the end if need be.
The Mothers is a story about a group of people in small California community and its church, friendship, and “what ifs”.
Nadia and Aubrey are two young girls who become friends, both coming from painful pasts, that while different, allow them to bond.
Prior to the girls’ friendship, the summer before college Nadia falls for Luke, the preacher’s son in their community, and ends up pregnant.
I enjoyed this book and think it’s relatable as everyone, even those with no regrets, can find themselves on occasion wondering what the outcome would be had they made a different choice.
Initial thoughts: What a great debut! Lyrical writing, a touching storyline and resounding characters . . . Sat down to read a few chapters but couldn't help but finish it in a day.
The Mothers is about a young girl named Nadia who tries to cope after her mother kills herself, the catalyst for Nadia’s pursuit of any opportunity that makes her feel—any opportunity to forget her hurt.
+++This is truly one of the most heart-breaking books about grief, lost love, and the severed intimacy of family.
We experience it all with Nadia: how a loved one’s face she aches to remember slowly slips away while the grainy image on a sonogram never leaves her.There’s no doubt about it.
I will definitely pick up Brit Bennett’s next book.
Y'all I'm conflicted...
I really liked this novel- the writing, the overall plot and its lack of a clear-cut ending.
At one point, I couldn't even put the book down.
But, I felt somewhat disappointed by the predictable path this novel took.
I just felt like the author could have taken this plot somewhere unexpected & killed it.
Why do I feel conflicted?
Because although the main thread of the plot took a predictable route, it was written so well, took on a few heavy social (& religious) issues and it ended w/o a clear resolution.
I just spent a few days listening to this story, with it’s talented narrator using difference voices and affectations to portray its different characters. The story meandered along, at times to its detriment. The narrator’s talent carried it, but I wasn’t able to connect fully to any of the characters and I felt as though something crucial was missing. 3.5 stars
In fact, nearly all the characters (even the yenta-ish, gossip-mongering, titular Mothers (of the aforementioned church, who make their appearance apparent chapter-by-chapter in a Greek Chorus-y sort of way) are all real and mostly relatable (insofar as I can relate to church-going African-American biddies).
What I hated about this novel though is: of all the directions she could have taken this (what started out as a conventional family tragedy), Ms. Bennett chose the skeeziest, which ended up making me detest every one of her principal, well-drawn characters (or more accurately, making me detest where Ms. Bennett "took them to"), and reduced this into a bad Tyler Perry dramedy (and no, not the ones with Madea, either).
But it feels revolutionary because these characters are normal, everyday, middle-class people of color.
Nadia and Aubrey lose their mothers in different ways, and it affects their feelings about their own potential motherhood dramatically.
And there are the elderly "mothers" of the Upper Room, the church where Luke's father is pastor, that all their lives gravitate around, as they watch the three young people knowing, as the reader does, that what is happening now has happened before and will happen again.
I don't always love books that show me the drastic and dangerous decisions of the young and hurting, because I know very well what that is like and if you get it wrong I know it.
Around this same time, Nadia befriends a quiet girl named Aubrey whose mother is out of the picture, and the two of them bond over that mutual hole in their lives.The Mothers follows these three characters through high school, college and into adulthood, where the choices they made as teenagers will come back to haunt them.Narrated by the collective voice of the church mothers—a group of older women who indulge in the town gossip and observe Nadia over the years—The Mothers is at its strongest a heartbreaking book about female friendship and all its complexities, from the jealousy and betrayal to the love and loyalty.It’s also a poignant study of a modern black woman, as illustrated by thoughtful passages like this one:“She felt the sly type of racism here, longer waits for tables, white girls who expected her to walk on the slushy part of the sidewalk, a drunk boy outside of a salsa club yelling that she was pretty for a black girl.
I loved "The Mothers" by Brit Bennett so much!!!
Wow. It's hard to believe this is Bennett's debut novel.
I haven't enjoyed a novel this much in a long time.
I liked how each character had a backstory, and I felt a strong connection with Aubrey.
Even though she's a supporting character, I truly felt like she was the heart and soul of "The Mothers".
I was hesitant to read it because this book was so HYPED when it was released in 2016, but I'm so glad I gave it a chance - the hype is totally worth it!
I'll definitely be reading more Brit Bennett in the future.
Video review https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QpxUj...
