https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5347.Bleachers
Sporty read! enjoyable,heartwarming,well developed characters with good storytelling..recommend (paperback!)
Guys who played high school football 15 yrs ago reminisce about the past.
Melancholy and sadness.STORY BRIEF:Eddie Rake was a tough, mean, high school football coach with undefeated teams for many years.
Guys who used to play football for him have returned to town for the coming funeral.
We listen to the guys reminisce and remember events from the past.
A lot of it was sad to see what happens to football players after they no longer play.
I was sad for Neely at the losses in his life.
He’s resigned to life.NARRATOR:The author narrated his own book which was ok.
A High school football star comes back to his hometown to bid farewell to his dying coach. The book is about group of friends reminiscing the glory days of playing together and their relationship with their coach.  Word of caution   : The book is centered around American football and their recollections of their memorable games (incl a long play by play commentary of 1 particular game). So if you have no idea about the game, you will find it annoying after a point.  Sadly,the relationship betwe
A High school football star comes back to his hometown to bid farewell to his dying coach.
The book is about group of friends reminiscing the glory days of playing together and their relationship with their coach.
Word of caution 
: The book is centered around American football and their recollections of their memorable games (incl a long play by play commentary of 1 particular game).
Sadly,the relationship between the coach and the players and the players themselves is never fully explored and the emotional ending at the end feels totally flat.
Fifteen years after swearing he would never return, Neely Crenshaw finds himself back in Messina, Texas, awaiting final word that local legend and former football coach Eddie Rake has died.
This is a very painful novel to read having played high school football myself and I share many of the same feelings towards my old coach as Neely does — and as I'm sure many other former athletes do — despite the fact that I was not a star, hell I wasn't even a first stringer.
"When you're famous at eighteen, you spend the rest of your life fading away. You dream of the glory days, but you know they're gone forever." This makes for an interesting change of pace and style for Grisham. It proves that he can write outside his usual genre and just about get away with it.Bleachers is a nostalgic tale of dreams lost and memories swirling. The town of Messina is in mourning. Their feared yet beloved football coach Eddie Rake is on his death bed. As his condition deteriorate
I also feared the reaction of one of my Goodreads friends if I failed to finish it as he commented that it was his favourite Grisham book!Grisham has managed to create a cast of characters, and develop them so effectively, that they represent both the importance of football to a local community whilst simultaneously destroying it as a complete waste of time and energy, unimportant in the big scheme of life.
Unfortunately, he doesn't offer any solutions for joy and hope in the future once these things have passed away and all that is left is the memories.
Couldn't put it down. And it makes you think about how people influence you and how strong a bond is between coaches and players. This was excellent.
I've had this book for a long time, probably since it was released in 2003. I knew it was about football and didn't expect it to be fast-paced or action-packed. It's not a John Grisham thriller, for sure. Overall, it's a nice story. Kind of dark, maybe a bit anticlimactic. But at the same time, it has a nice message that anybody who has ever played youth sports should be able to understand.
I do own Grisham books, but only because family members keep buying them for me on birthday's and xmas's. I smile politely and thank them, wishing they would include the receipt. I have read this, and i don't recommend it unless you are 10 years old and want to start reading adult fiction. Dull, dull, dull. How this man is a best-selling writer is reflection of today's society's IQ.
This is a novella or a short story, not a novel.When you're a best selling novelist you can get anything published. This is a homage to those American high school coaches who inspired their teams. Nothing new or interesting here.Listen to "Glory Days" by Springsteen and he says more on this subject in three minutes than Grisham does in 180 pages.
I had to drag the book off the shelf to remember the main character’s name.Neely Crenshaw comes home for the burial of his school football coach, Eddie Rake.
All of his boys remember him and the impact he made on their lives as they sit in the bleachers waiting for the stadium’s lights to dim and signal his passing.Things have changed in his hometown of Messina.
Now, everything’s available and memories blur with real time.Maybe this will appeal to American football fans but I got tired of hearing of the trials of Nate and Paul and Jesse.
Totally up my alley since it is about an iconic high school football coach and the impact he had on multiple generations of players.
The former players gather in the bleachers at the school awaiting the death of the old coach as he succumbs to cancer.
They slowly open up to each other sharing stories of the coach, not always glowing ones and in the memories of these players, the character of a dying man comes to life.
It's an easy read as Grisham usually is, but also as is typical of his writing, there are some unexpected twists and excellent development of the characters.
Holy majoly! I was so glad this book was short! It was lame-o.Imagine the movie Varsity Blues, then add about 15 years with the full cast of characters coming back to town because the death of the former coach is imminent. That is the plot summary in a nutshell.Cheeeesy.
It also has a wonderful picture of what happens when you let an accident control your life.
Everyone in life needs a person to help them with pushing yourself to get better more than we would push ourselves.
If you decide to check out this book, you'll find the person who is your motivation.
A weakness in this book is that there isn't really a situation in where something really exciting happens, most of it is sad.
If this book was part of a series, I would continue to read it because its very interesting on how it is set up with everything happening very quickly.
Bleachers By John Grisham (Fiction - Novella)Former high school football players return to their home town to wait for the death of their former football coach, Eddie Rake.
Rake was hard on his players, bordering on sadist, but he shaped his teams into state champions who established records that still stand in their state of Mississippi.Neeley Crenshaw was one of those boys who came to reminisce.
There's a lot of bad blood between them and Neeley's not sure if he can find it in himself to forgive the coach.Bleachers takes place in a small southern town.
Maybe the coach had something to do with that.Bleachers is one of those rare Grisham novels that isn't a lawyer book.
What a great story and quick read. Literally read this short novel in a day. Personally this made me rethink my high school days and all the positive coaches I’ve had in my life. Yes vigils/funerals are sad they also are a time for those to get together as one and be reunited to relive some of the greatest moments from the past. This football team came together to honor their football coach who passes away. Great recommendation for sport lovers.
Maybe it is because it was a lot like Friday Night Lights and I really miss that show.
To be honest, Neely was kind of stuck in the past and it was sad.
A lot of those guys were like that and it is sad to know that they lived in the past that much.
I think that is a lesson to learn for athletes.
I liked how all the players have a common bond because of the coach they played for and I loved that that bond lasted a lifetime.
"Bleachers" by John Grisham is about the legendary Messina Spartans football team and Coach Rake's team coming back to their home stadium and saying there last good-byes to Eddie Rake.
Eddie Rake was the meanest and hardest coach throughout Spartan history but is the man who caused the Messina Spartans to be the best football team in history.
Some memories were good and others were bad, but by the end of the night they would end up realizing what a great man and coach Eddie Rake was.
This book is about a football player, not the one Rolando, Messi plays but the American football.
Since I have no clue about the American football, I hated the book for the first half as the first half deals only with the recollection of football memories by the protagonist Neely Cranshaw.
Neely comes to his hometown after he hears the news about his football coach being in his death bed.
Neely hates his coach but still wants to be in town when the coach breathed his last.
The reason why he hates his coach is not revealed until the coach dies.
I took this book to read as I liked Calico Joe a lot and Grisham did not disappoint me. Though the book is not as good as Calico Joe as a sports fan perspective, this is good in a different way. This book is more about the memories of few school mates about the football and their coach during their school time. The thing I liked the most about the book is that this has rekindled all those memories of my school time.
I have a fondness for John Grisham's legal thrillers but it makes for a refreshing change when he writes about other subjects.American football is not something I am familiar with,but Grisham's skill made me read this book in a few hours.It was almost as if I was sitting in the bleachers,cheering for that high school football team which had such a tough taskmaster as coach.
Nice 100 page read. If you've played high school football for a coach that you thought was "tough", but you still respected (and loved?) the guy, this read is for you. There is something special about high school football when it's done right ... and there's nothing special about it when it's done wrong. This book makes you think about this just a little bit.
A nice, quick-reading story of a star quarterback and some of his teammates who return home, after several years, to honor the death of their legendary coach. Most have a love/hate relationship to deal with. A departure from the usual Grisham legal novels.
It was ok. Not one of Grisham's best works. I'd probably like it more if I were more in to high school football.
'Bleachers' may not be the all-star starting Quarterback of John Grisham's career, but it is a very talented back-up performer.
Like many second-string players in any sport, 'Bleachers' will not have the opportunity to grasp glory, but it is consistent and solid and there when you need it.
The characters are introduced, not given enough time to develop fully but they are solid with enough backstory to satisfy the reader.
What Grisham sacrifices with character, he flourishes with emotion as nostalgia, acceptance, resentment, and redemption help drive this story to its conclusion.
Un libro que habla del valor de la amistad, la lealtad y del cambio que toda persona afronta en su vida, el de convertirse en adulto y llegar a la madurez como persona, y como el entrenador Eddie Rake ejerce un papel protagonista en dicho cambio de sus protagonistas.Un libro entretenido que se puede leer de una sentada, pero al tener como telón de fondo el deporte del fútbol americano, un deporte que desconozco por completo, ha habido momentos que me he perdido, ya que se utilizan términos y palabras que conozco de oídas pero que no domino por no saber nada de este deporte.
This was a good book I enjoyed the theme of sports and commodore throughout the town.
This is a very serious football town and throughout the book many past histories of this town's football the field, the coaches and the players.
The book turns into an emotional novel about a legendary coach in the town who brought them to many championships.
I enjoyed this book because of the football setting in the town the players and coaches are celebrities in the town and everyone from the town even if they dont have kids on the team or are not avid football fans still show out to the games
Bleachers was a good read that I highly enjoyed. Bleachers was all about a small town football team and one of the main character Neely Crenshaw returns back to their old town Mensia while their former coach, Eddie Rake is dying. Bleachers uses flashbacks through out the whole story, mainly just showing what impact Eddie had on these men back in the day. I would highly recommand this book to those who enjoy sports and deep story lines.
*I don’t review favorite authors*It’s been a while since I’ve read a Grisham novel, and I forgot how much I enjoyed his storytelling. This was a fun sporty and quick read about greatness, regret, forgiveness, and life.
Neely Crenshaw comes back to his hometown to say goodbye to a beloved coach. The story unfolds to reveal his greatest victories and biggest regrets. An enjoyable read for those who love football.
A touching tale about glory days. In this case, high school football and an inspiring head coach named Eddie Rake. I got a little misty there at the end.
