https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/784726.Abel_s_Island
Abel is a happily married mouse.
When a Picnic lunch that he and his wife Amanda have become rained out, they quickly seek for shelter.
Before Abel can retrieve his wife's scarf, he is quickly swept away by a raging river which sends him toward an island.
Abel is determined to get home and back to his wife but will he succeed?
Read and find out for yourself.This was a pretty good animal fantasy and survival story.
If you like these types of stories, then definitely look for this book at your local library and wherever books are sold.
So begins William Steig's Newbery Honor Book Abel's Island, the ensuing adventures of this rather foppish mouse as he comes head to head with nature.
Amazingly, Abel is swept up in a stream, then a river, then eventually marooned on an island (about 12,000 tails long).
What will this intelligent, imaginative rodent do to get off the island and back to his beloved Amanda?
As the weeks and months go by, he misses his books, his paintings, his comfortable stuffed chair, his stylish clothes (now damp, torn, and lumpy), but above all his precious wife Amanda, whom he thinks about constantly.
Who read it together and have continued to read most of Steig's books and altogether fallen in love with his peaceful, clean writing style and lovely stories.This book follows Abel, a grown mouse who while picnicking with his wife, is attacked by a ferocious storm causing his wife and him to venture into a cave.
His wife, who's name is Amanda, accidentally drops her scarf out of the cave and into the storm.
Being the kindhearted and brave mouse that he is, Abel goes out to retrieve his wife's scarf.
And Abel's Island is about more than a foppish mouse who gets stuck on an island.
Most of all, it's about an enduring love for someone who is absent.I would also argue that Abel's Island is an advertisement for clear, direct prose and a gimmick-free approach to storytelling.
Behold:By the end of the month of August he knew he was an inhabitant of the island, whether he liked it or not.
It often seemed she was dreaming the real world around her, the things that were actually happening...Wherever he went about the island, he wore Amanda's scarf around his neck, the ends tied in a knot.
I loved this story. It reminded me of Russell Hoban's The Mouse and His Child. When Abel the mouse finds himself washed down the stream from his house and marooned on an island, he is forced to use all his resources to find food and shelter to survive. The isolation also gives him time to reflect upon life, which, for me, was the most interesting part of the book. Like Hoban's book, Abel's Island is for thoughtful readers who want more than just an adventure story. Highly recommended!
This was not a book I was familiar with and strangely enough it came to my attention because a character in a TV series was reading aloud from it. After googling the quote I requested a copy from my library and thoroughly enjoyed this unique story of Abel, a gentleman mouse, who spends a year stranded on an island. Lovely writing and charming illustrations.
just the bee's knees
I used to write the words down in a notebook and then go and look them up later in a dictionary), along with his glorious illustrations, drew me in to the story in a way that far surpasses his other books I read.
After reading a chapter about the war that has broken out between bears, Abel begins to reflect not only on the book but about his own life and his relationship to an owl on the island:“It made Abel wonder about civilization.
Leaving his wife Amanda to find her scarf Abel is swept away to an island and marooned!
Follow Abel as he learns to live in his new surroundings.Reviews: "With inimitable style, Steig tells the story of a mouse, Abelard Hassam di Chirico Flint, who gets swept away in a driving rainstorm while rescuing his wife's scarf and winds up stranded on a river island for a year.
Abel rises to the challenge." --Starred, Booklist"There was no trouble in locating the best book of the year, William Steig's Abel's Island...Abelard is...resourceful, despairing, persevering and, eventually, triumphant.
Abel is a charming young mouse, a bit of a fop and a dandy, who is on a picnic with his lovely new wife when a storm kicks up, it becomes more like a hurricane, and Abel is separated from his wife, and eventually blown into a river and carried downstream.
He washes up on an island.
He has several excellent ideas about how to try to get off the island which he implements immediately, never moping and feeling sorry for himself.
The comparisons to Robinson Crusoe for the preteen set are perfect, and I love how William Steig never talks down to children (in fact, uses some 25-cent words from time to time!)
What a lovely read to foster thinking about adversity.
Abel, lost in a storm, finds himself far from family and friends on a deserted island with little resources.
I continued to admire his positive attitude and perseverance despite the steep odds thrown at him.
I think this would make a good read-aloud, but heads up about one scene where Abel gets drunk on wine (!!??) and another where he "defecates".
Not a problem in my head, but I'd always like to know those things ahead of time before reading it to my audience be it a classroom full of fourth graders or my seven year old!
I love William Steig! This book is another good one for reading aloud to kids. Its a chapter book with short chapters and plenty of illustrations. The pages are filled with lots of action to hold interest (it's a story of a mouse who gets marooned on a deserted island), but it's written with excellent language and vocabulary. It was rare that my son didn't ask me to read "JUST ONE MORE CHAPTER!" while we went through this book together.
My daughter just got done reading this on Monday, and she said, "oh mom, you have to read it!" So last night, I put aside the mountain of books that I am currently tried to read through and dived in. Honestly, I realized I need to do this a lot more often. It is a delight to read through, even as an adult. I loved the pictures- adult books never have pictures. :) So, fellow adults, let's read some children's books sometimes- just for fun!
A lovely little book and one I had never read as a kid. Highlights the power of love and family and its ability to drive the will to survive.
Remembering how much I adored this book in about the 5th grade.
Like Steig's The Magic Pebble, this is a book about isolation and separation; Abel is stranded for a full year, missing his wife and other family.
We don't learn the answers to key questions like what his wife did while he was away, and whether she really felt the mystical messages he sent.
When I was young, I remember being slightly puzzled that the main character was an adult and married -- maybe that's why questions about the wife didn't bother me -- but the adventures enhanced me all the same.
I'm giving the book 5 stars because I know how much I loved it as a child, and it is a wonderful read for an adult, too.
The children loved his many ideas and attempts to escape the island and get back to his beloved wife and I loved his ingenuity and can-do spirit.
"The Abel who was leaving was in better fettle, in all ways, than the Abel who had arrived in a hurricane, desperately clinging to a nail" (104).I will mention that there are a couple things I didn't particularly like, but that's the joy of reading aloud--I can skip over those parts.
Other than that, this was a delightful story of well-crafted prose to share with our younger children.I will also insert that the illustrations are quite fun and this book received a Newbery Honor award in 1977.
This Robinson Crusoe-esque mouse tale addresses issues far deeper than most young readers would be able to fully comprehend, although they would understand the general meaning and emotions.
I wish I could have the comparison of my young self reading this book to see if I would have caught as much of the depth even then.But, I found it to be a fascinating discussion of what one will experience and have to do to psychologically survive when faced with absolute solitude, although addressed in a simpler method.
This novel is the tale of how Abel is able to survive alone on a deserted island using his wits, his instincts, creative thinking, and information gained from books he’s read.
Mr. Steig’s illustrations are an added bonus; they give the reader a clear visualization of Abel’s resourceful efforts to return home and also of his day-to-day life on the island.I’ve long been a fan of William Steig’s stories.
(There were even some words in this book that challenged me, such as “equinoctial rains” and “taboret.”) When my son was younger and not an enthusiastic reader, William Steig’s books were always ones he was eager to read.
First sentence: Early in August 1907, the first year of their marriage, Abel and Amanda went to picnic in the woods some distance from the town where they lived.
Premise/plot: Abel is separated from Amanda as a result of a sudden storm.
Both seek shelter, of course, but Abel finds himself situated far from home (from a mouse's perspective) and on an island.
There is very little that is cutesy about this animal fantasy.
Abel's stuck, stuck, stuck, STUCK on that island.
And he has to reevaluate everything he thought he knew about himself and life.This is a contemplative animal fantasy.
{I deliberately used "rather," as the voice is refined and civilized in that elegant way we associate with old fashioned, and British, narration.} A lovely picnic turns wet and stormy, and a loving husband, who happens to be mouse, is separated from his beloved because he chases her scarf, blown off by the raging wind.
This one grand gesture winds up marooning this husband for a year, on an island, as he longs to make his way back to his wife mouse.A re-telling of the Odyssey, it works with charm and none of the literary hang-ups of writers who worry about too much tell (it's mostly that) or lowering the vocabulary to kid-friendly words.
Abel and Amanda went out for a picnic out in the woods.
So Abel went to go chase it, Abel got caught in the wind and never came back.So in this book Abel is mainly just trying to get back home from being swept away by the wind.I honestly did not really like this book much.
It was sort of a good book, but it didn't interest me because, I thought it would've had more action because he got lost in the woods, but it didn't .
As a child, I LOVED survival stories.
I really enjoyed reading his story of survival, which, since it's a children's book, is never too frightening or horrifying, but still carries tension.
I also enjoyed seeing Abel change from a helpless high-society mouse to someone who knows what he wants from life and who can do hard work.
One thing I will mention: the reading level for this is supposed to be high fifth grade, but there are words that even I, about to graduate with my master's degree, did not know.
Definitely a good book for expanding vocabulary in young ones, especially if they like stories about survival.
Also recommended for adults who enjoy those same stories.
Really fun book about a mouse who finds himself trapped on an island and forced to fend for himself after living a privileged life.
I think my favorite parts are the exceeding pride that Abel has in any of his accomplishments.
I also thought it was really cute, and fun that he was able to figure out a trade for himself while stranded on the island.
As fun as the book was the longer poor Abel was stuck on the island the worse I felt for him.
The frog we meet on the island was another favorite moment.
Short and sweet, and just the kind of children's book I like; lyrical writing, a whimsical, charming story, and an overall lighthearted (though it was at times thought provoking) feel.
Abel's character development was quick (it had to be, considering the book's size), but I soon came to love him, even though in the beginning I was a bit wary.
WOO RODENTS.I feel like people who give this a bad review aren't really seeing this as what it is...which is a children's book.
It just needs to be charming and fun, and Abel's Island is exactly that.
Okay, so this is one of those books that is a huge quandary - rate low so I don't get suggestions but the rating is unfair, or rate high and end up with a bunch of books WAY outside my age range clogging up my recommendations?
(Edit: oh look, turns out Goodreads recommends books to me based on it even with no rating.
GDI, Goodreads...)So to begin: Abel's Island is absolutely, for its demographic (grades 3-5 according to Scholastic), a 5/5 book.
It is an excellent story, written for its age group without ever talking down to them.
Abels Island Able is lost in the woods with out his wife .
He was marooned on an island in the middle of a big river .
He lives in a log and sits in a tree .
He has to avoid the neighbor hood owl .
Who thinks he looks very tasty.
He finally escapes the island by being picked up by the owl and dropped on the other side of the large river .
That night Able made it back to his house .
I thought the book was terrible .
It was too long for the amount of action it had.
Abels Island Able is lost in the woods with out his wife .
He was marooned on an island in the middle of a big river .
He finally escapes the island by being picked up by the owl and dropped on the other side of the large river .
I thought the book was terrible .
It took him to long to get off the island and the the story line was terrible.
I also think it would have made the story much better if he just died .
I thought it was a pretty bad book so twi stars maximum.
Abel’s Island was a fantastic family read-aloud.
Written and illustrated by William Steig (who wrote some of our favorite picture books like Sylvester and the Magic Pebble, Brave Irene, etc), this short chapter book would be a great choice if you’re just easing in to reading longer books aloud.
The story follows a spoiled young mouse who is swept away to a remote island during a storm.
We all loved this story and the pictures are great too.{Read more reviews of read alouds and books for kids (and adults!) on A Spirited Mind}
Abel is a very fancy mouse who chases his wife's scarf when it blows into a river while they are picnicking.
Abel falls into the river and is carried downstream in the fast current to an island, where he is trapped for more than a year.
Abel quickly learns how to utilize the resources on his island to get food and shelter and to protect himself from a rather scary owl.
Abel is a pleasant fellow to read about and I'm guessing that kids in grade 1 and up would love to hear this read aloud, and grade 3 and up could manage it on their own.
Read the full review on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...This story is about a mouse named Abel who gets separated from his wife Amanda during a summer storm and becomes trapped on an island for a year. He learns to fend for himself, and it’s all very Robinson Crusoe. Abel is foppish, a trust fund baby who has never worked a day in his life, so his ingenuity and perseverance when it becomes clear that he will not escape the island immediately is impressive. There are also adorable illustrations.This book is short and sweet, nothing mind-blowing, but certainly worth a look.
