https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22510983-girl-online
Really talented writers are being denied the opportunity to publish their works and also give us readers books that will appease the insatiable thirst we have for well written books.
It is sad that publishers do not care whether the works produced are good or can be classed as a well written literary book, sadly now it's all about the money.
I'll be filming a review on my channel. Stay tuned!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ THIS  is the book that broke the record for highest first-week sales of all-time leaving Harry Potter in its wake??? Here's what Professor Snape thinks about that . . .  And here's what I think . . .  I picked up Girl Online for the simple fact that it was breaking sales records left and right. I had certainly never heard of "Zoella" before. And then???? Then I found out the "author" (maybe, seems she didn't even write this piece of g
Lucky for us all (not) - this is the age where every Joe Blow seems to be getting an automatic extension on their 15 minutes of fame in order to make an extra dollar or twelve.But like I said, I didn't know anything about this book or the author upon starting.
For those of you who (like me) are unfamiliar with this book, the premise is as follows: Penny is your average awkward teenager.
In order to connect with others like herself, Penny starts a blog called GirlOnline where she can express herself anonymously.
Okay, I didn't actually finish it.
I got about 50-something pages in and gave up.
This book was just so cheesy and it did that thing where the writer (ghost writer in this case) is so obviously an adult but is trying to write as if she was a teenager (ex: he was the walking selfie????).
I really like Zoe Sugg as a YouTuber and obviously this was based off of her life, but I didn't like it in book form.
I think this could have been a lot stronger if it didn't try so hard to be "so relatable" and whatnot.
The narrative feels disjointed and it’s clear from the style of writing that this was not written by Zoe alone.
Again, nothing wrong with a cliché or two, but only if they’re written well and sadly, these characters were not – in fact, they were some of the most two dimensional characters I’ve ever come across in fiction.
I really wanted to be proved wrong – I wanted to love this book and enjoy every word but sadly I didn’t and I’m not surprised.
It's so frustrating people how are praising her for beating J.K. Rowling's debut sales, because that means absolutely shit nothing.
Of course she would have record sales; she already had a fan base of millions when her book published.
So of course there was no record breaking debut week, but Harry Potter has broken nearly every other record there is since then.
The books have inspired a movie franchise, and J.K. Rowling's earning millions, but she also donates regularly to charity.
She did not need help trying something new.(link to tweet)So no, do not talk to me about how this book beat J.K. Rowling's debut week.
Bien, ahora que hemos dejado eso de lado, empecemos con la reseña.Girl Online es uno de esos libros que sólo puedo clasificar como libros para el verano (a pesar de que este se desarrolla en invierno, jajaja) porque tiene una historia sencilla, muy juvenil, que es fácil seguir y que, de cierta manera, es un alivio entre libros densos de fantasía épica o distopías con mundos complicadísimos.
Además, la premisa del libro es muy atractiva: Penny, una chica que lleva un blog secreto en internet en el que escribe entradas en las que puede ser ella misma, tiene una vida normal pero es tremendamente torpe, todo le sale mal y, encima, empieza a sufrir ataques de pánico.
I like Zoe's YouTube channel but I just don't see this book as being any good, the plot is unoriginal with the whole "anonymous blog" thing that we've seen a million times before in books. Let's face it, she only got this deal because of her fame, had she submitted it to a publisher without being well known would it still be being released? I'm not sure.
I found the plot to be extremely predictable and unoriginal, while the writing was just mediocre at best.
I'm a fan of Zoe's but I think it's a shame that there are tons of hard-working writers out there who never get their works published, while Zoe has barely showed any passion for writing and gets a best-seller.
But because Zoe's name is on it everyone thinks its the best book ever written.
Well I read it as soon as it came out - and the truth is it is just very basic and unoriginal.
'Girl Online' and the ghost writing scandal surrounding 'Zoella' has been one of the biggest things buzzing around the internet over the last couple of days.
I'm not going to write about the ghostwriting in this review, simply the story and what I thought of the delivery, even though the fact Zoe Sugg didn't write the book 'entirely by herself' is an important factor to how I received it.Instead of giving my rating at the end of the review, I feel the need to preface my opinions.
Noah, her love interest, is introduced on the first day Penny is in New York and within about six hours, they've fallen in love.
Yup.Furthermore, this book felt awfully "childish" to me.
I'm not trying to be condescending or anything but the narrator's voice felt more like a 12 year old as opposed to the 15 year that Penny is meant to be.
And this is coming from someone who is a 15 year old (me).Despite that, the main reason why I actually ended up DNFing this book was because of the great and terrible: instant-love.Then I do look up, and for a split second we're staring into each other's eyes.
4.5/5 ok i'm rating this book purely on entertainment and not about how well it was written or who it was written by...
none of that stuff, and i gotta say, this book is pretty darn entertaining.
I read the first 100 pages in one sitting and the next 200ish in another sitting and i just couldn't put it down??
I thought this book was addicting and cute and entertaining.
I haven't picked up a book since september and this book definitely helped me get out of a slump and fall back in love with reading :)
The thing is that Penny forgets all her insecurities the minute a hot guy tell her she’s pretty or as he beautifully phrased it « you look like a mermaid.
» It shouldn’t be okay for books to tell young girls that they aren’t good enough until a guy says so.
➨ The gay best friend: I feel like some books use the gay character just to serve a purpose but not in a realistic way.
➨ Last but certainly not least, THE INSTALOVE : yes, my friends this book was no exception, after hanging out one day together our two characters « liked eachother so much it might be love.
I don't care what everybody's going to think about me.
Yes it wasn't the most original story.
If I'd be 16 i would have melted how sweet this is.
(Ok let's admit it, I'm 25 and i was very close to melting) I loved every part of it.
Zoe wrote it amazingly.
If you are looking for something original, this is not for you.
But if you love sweet stories about love, and you don't mind that the age of heroine is 16, I'd say go for it.
It's really easy to read.
It's really sweet.
I will definitely read next book Zoe will write.
My impression was kind of that this had been a sensation and people felt cheated because probably Zoe Sugg didn't write it.
It feels like a stuffy, old fogey approach to YA cliches.
It feels like a completely out of touch person's view of what's popular in YA.
While Penny is young at 15, 15 is not 10 and most of this felt like it could've been written by a 10 year old.
Her self worth is almost entirely based on this one dude she knows for a week who tells her she's real pretty like.
Don't you just love when girls in books base their self-esteem on boys?
I feel like there were so many things that were cringe worthy in this book.
The writing was alright and the plot wasn't awful, but it was a little bit predictable.
It's a cute read, for me it took about 3 hours, but it's not the kind of thing you fall in love with.
I recommend it to fans of Zoe, because they'll be used to her style of writing, and anyone who's looking for an easy read.
Don't go to it expecting thick plot, because the end-of-the-world drama lasts about 3 pages before things start to right themselves.
It's not even funny how right I was about this book. The writing was depressingly juvenile, and it was so chock-full of cliches and purple prose, I wanted to punch a wall. The prose was sickeningly sweet, and dripping in syrupy fakeness.  "I like you so much it could be love."  Excuse me while I throw up. Also, really? Love. You literally just met her. Also, sixteen-year-olds don't know what the deuce love is, or what the fuck soulmates are. I cannot deal with this whole "we're meant to be toget
Also, sixteen-year-olds don't know what the deuce love is, or what the fuck soulmates are.
If this was the final, ghost-written product, I do not want to know what Ms. Sugg's original book was like.
It is so hard to believe this was written by an adult; barring the use of some grandiloquent words like "vacuous" and "inane".
No adult I know writes like that.
Let me tell you how things in this book work: Penny has a problem, Penny feels bad about the problem, Penny blogs about the problem, people apologise to Penny, Penny is perfect once again.
My God!I didn't expect to enjoy this book as much as u did!The writing is simple yet unique.
This blog has therefore helped me to deal with my problems and depression, and for that I am so thankful to this book!I hope Zoe writes many more books.What a great start!I know a lot of people are very skeptical of this book because she's on youtube, and she's a beauty vlogger."No thanks.
Not for me" a lot of people have said.
Don't judge a book until you've read it.I loved this more than Fangirl.
I reckon this book will surprise a lot of people.
I think in general I also have in issue with the whole high school romance in general and deciding you are just SO IN LOVE when you've only just met someone and don't even know their last name.
Anxiety is such a common issue that people are afraid to talk about and this highlighted it very well and gave it a normalcy that so many people could relate to.Overall I would recommend this book if you are younger or if you don't mind high school romance stories, it is adorable and I think it would make an awesome Disney movie!
Porque en serio, es malísima.Partiendo del hecho ya conocido de que no todo el mundo puede escribir y de que ahora todxs lxs youtubers están escribiendo porque sus novelas se pueden volver virales dado a que son personas famosas, realmente cualquiera puede intentar escribir un libro.
Ahí lo dejo para quien quiera reflexionar sobre el tema.La novela parece estar escrita por una niña de ocho años por diversos motivos:-Trama: la trama es sencilla, lo que a simple vista no es algo malo.
Como si de pronto hubiera tenido una idea y la hubiera escrito en ese momento sin preparar mínimamente al lector.-Ritmo: el ritmo es de las peores cosas que tiene la novela.
İkilemdeyim, sıkıntı şu: Bu kitap benim sevebileceğim bir kitap değil, dolayısıyla da beğenmedim.
Başarılı bir vlogger, ama yazar değil.
Zoella'nın kendi hayatından bir şeyler kattığını tahmin edebilmek de zor değil ve kitabın bu açıdan özellikle yaşı küçük kesime faydalı olacağını düşünüyorum.
Ana karakter Penny gibi zor dönemler geçiren kızlar için yazılmış hafif bir kişisel gelişim kitabı gibi.
Kitabı hiç sevmedim ama bu benim tarzım ve hoşlandığım bir konu değil.
Beklentiniz yukarıda yazdıklarım gibiyse, mutlu olmak için izlediğiniz Amerikan filmleri gibi bir şey okumak istiyorsanız veya Penny ile empati kuracağınızı düşünüyorsanız tavsiye edebilirim.
WHATTTTT WHATTT OMGAnd my favorite male fictional character name is  NOAH . LIKE WHAAAAAnd New York and panic attacks and oh this is going to be lovelyyyy! Edit 7.8.2014.25 NOVEMBER YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY EDIT 9.9.2014.COVERRRRRRRR YASSS IT'S BEAUTIFULLLL
If you are looking for a cheesy, unrealistic and predictable book then you should definitely pick this up.The main character, Penny, was annoying as hell.
REALLY?Noah's secret wasn't hard to guess.
If you think this book includes a major plot twist then you're wrong.
I already made an assupmtion of what his "secret" could be on page 100 something and guess what?
I don't think it's going to be a surprise for anyone, because the whole damn world has figured it out, except Penny.2 stars because I kind of enjoyed some parts of it.
My rating is just a reflection of how much I liked the story (not the ghostwriting drama). I thought it was fun! It's a simple, fast read that's a lot like Heartbreakers... except I liked that story more because you could get a stronger sense of the characters.
Oh, and the fact that it was located in London & New York made me love this book even more...I especially enjoyed the real-life landmarks/locations Zoella chose to insert into the story :DGirl Online, although a pretty light read, also deals with some more serious issues like bullying, growing up and anxiety; I think readers will really appreciate this added bit of depth that these issues bring to the story.
Noah is all kinds of yummy in that delicious looking cupcake kind of way and I loved the positive change he brings to Penny's character!Side Note: How adorable is this cover?!?!
Seriously, I can't get enough of it!Extra Side Note: After reading this book I've decided that I want my very own Noah and Elliot....This!
First let me say, I love Zoe. I am a HUGE fan of hers and I love the light and positive vibes she puts in this world.
Now, I read this as an ARC copy from the book store I work for.
I really REALLY did because I love Zoe SO SO much but it disappointed me.
I read a LOT of Young Adult and I know they all follow pretty much the same format.
The beginning was a bit awkward and hard to get through.
Overall, I still think every teenage girl that watches Zoella or More Zoella will absolutely love this book.
I hope this lives up to my expectations. They're not ridiculously high at the moment but please let it be a decent, non insta-love, non-generic addition to the trillions of contemporary YA novels at the moment.
You can find the full review on my blog, as well as many other reviews! I know what people are going to say. They're going to say that Zoe Sugg only got a book deal because she's deemed famous now, and that she doesn't deserve to be published as much as some other people do. They'll say it's unfair. I disagree.Now before anyone starts furiously typing that I'm wrong, I'd like you to consider this: Everyone deserves to succeed. Yes, I agree that it is unfair that many people are unpublished. And
They're going to say that Zoe Sugg only got a book deal because she's deemed famous now, and that she doesn't deserve to be published as much as some other people do.
I mean honestly, if my name was in the dictionary that would be  it's definition.Note to self: Stop being so honest.And whilst Girl Online does maintain a Young Adult vibe through the romance aspect of the novel and the writing as a whole, Zoe addresses some topics that are very important to me, such as anxiety and cyberbullying and the effects that they can have on an individual.So to conclude, I'd recommend Girl Online to anyone who's looking for an easy romantic read.
This book gave me flashbacks to the kinds of books I read a lot as a "tween" - like Louise Rennison's books with the Englishness, humour, romance, etc.
So maybe the same Becki that read those kind of books would have liked this?
While it's not going to be one of those books I'm ever going to rave about, I think to some readers it will be a cute, fun read.
It's very cliche in many ways and it didn't feel like anything groundbreaking, but for what it is and for its target audience (plus the following Zoella has) I can see why many readers have responsed the way they have.
If you ignore all the high ratings of the minions and go into reading this with the mindset that it is just a YA book then you will be rather disappointed.
This is just the same run of the mill, teen girl falls in love but has a secret kind of book that youve read before, theres nothing substantial or new in it.
If you want an easy read then sure go ahead, but the book itself is rather dull and one that i couldnt wait to finish just so that i wouldn't have to read it again or spend any longer dwelling on it.
