https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25558608-a-torch-against-the-night
I realize I am not staring into his eyes.
I am staring into my future.I see it for a moment.
Pain.
Suffering.
Horror.
All that I love, all that matters to me, awash in blood.
Oh my god.
I loved it.Last year, I read and enjoyed an advance copy of an unknown book from a debut author - An Ember in the Ashes.
I sped through it, loved it, rated it five stars, and thought that was the end of that.
Like most books I rate and review, I expected it to be forgotten in a sea of YA.
I loved it.Last year, I read and enjoyed an advance copy of an unknown book from a debut author - An Ember in the Ashes.
And that's when I got some unprecedented backlash for my review.“I’m really surprised you liked this.”“This is just like ten million other books - how can you think it's so good?”“I’m not sure I can take your opinion seriously anymore.”Ouch.And I was like:“What?
It didn't feel like it was bridging a gap - the story moves along, many important and awful things happen, secrets are revealed and Tahir rounds off this installment well, whilst still promising so much more from the next book.
omg
You jump right into things in Torch and I loved it! Here's my full booktalk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UkQME...
magnificent.TORCH simply burns, in all the best ways.
it's everything you've come to love and expect from the brilliance of Sabaa Tahir, except BETTER.
twisty, turny awesomeness abounds on every single page.
and you will not want to keep turning them until the tale is over.the wonderful thing about A TORCH AGAINST THE NIGHT is that--though it never shies away from depicting cold brutality--the nuances of emotion are just as deeply felt.
you will yell at your favorite characters, laugh with their loved ones, and perhaps even shed a tear or two for a villain.this book is even better than EMBER.
“So long as you fight the darkness, you stand in the light.” A Torch Against the Night is the very glorious sequel I had expected from Sabaa Tahir. But what distinguishes itself from its prequel is the otherworldliness of it. The breath of Death on our characters' necks. The villain(s) that are evil incarnate. The idea of a prescribed destiny. The new abilities and powers. The demons, the stories, the souls -- everything combines with a well-built plot, an expanded universe and realistic, flawe
I had initially rated this book with 5 stars, but I ended up changing it because no matter how much I loved how it all unfolded, I had to admit there was something irking me: the inconsistency of the pace.
There was a particular character development that broke my heart which I hope somehow will be reversed by the end of the series because from the beginning I had the image of Elias and Laia as Emperor and Empress stuck on my retina, with Helene as Blood Shrike.
After all, the title of this book is an omen to the fire in Helene Aquilla.
there's a rushed quality to the plotting here - many instances where it comes across like a breathless, "we need to do this oh now we are doing it, good!" which is great for the book's pacing - this is a fast, fast read - but it feels like too much was glossed-over and sacrificed to that pacing.but whatever - it's a minor quibble that irritated me when i was reading it, but when i think back on all the stuff that happened in this book, my irritation is totally squashed by my much stronger feelings of having read something fun and dark and fierce.all the great characters are back - laia, elias, the commandant, marcus, keenan, and helene.
It’s no wonder we see Laia and Elias running for their lives on the cover.
Elias and Laia want to free Darin from prison, so most of the story centers on them trying to reach the prison.But then there’s Helene who is assigned to capture Elias alive.
The way Sabaa Tahir writes makes everything seem probable, like these characters could truly be alive in an alternative, magical universe.
At first, I was befuddled by the inclusion of magical abilities, because it’s not as if the world-building needs them, but they sure come in handy and I’m eager to see how they will develop within the characters.
Well, that wonderful man found the ONLY copy they received and IT WAS MINE.For some reason I cannot possibly fathom, the UK edition doesn't include a map.WHY?!Siobhan was lovely and sent me bunch of photos of her map-abundant Canadian edition and I am forever in her debt.I was so eager to continue Elias and Laia's journey I started reading straight away.
I'm really liking where this series is going!
S A B A A T A H I RR U I N E DM E.Side effects if reading ATATN: dizziness, fatigue, lightheadedness, clammy skin, cold sweat, P A I N.  If you’ve read any of my updates, you’d know how terrified I was going into this- that I was expecting the worst.. and now I’m just sorry that I even doubted Sabaa Tahir. Because absolutely every part of this book was brutal, but also perfection. All the best parts of An Ember in the Ashes were still a part of this story; the complexity of each and every chara
. I felt like the first book talked about and promised a lot of horrors, but in this one it all comes to life.
From the first page until the last page, I had non-stop anxiety for these characters.This book is told from the same perspectives as the 1st, Laia and Elias’, but since they’re off on their own journey, we also have Helene’s perspective to let us see into the Empire.
Lots of twists and turns, and wrong decisions happened, which people may not like..
First off, while the book tip toes around a pace that is sensible for the setting and action dwelling, it slows the scenes to a unbearable pace by contemplating every single characters emotions for what feels like a eternity.
Let's start with the character Laia, shall we?
My greatest complaint quite frankly is the superficiality of all the characters in this book.
A morally conflicted 20 something year old sucked into a life that was not his choosing seems like a good start for a character, add a touch of family problems and loyal best friends and you have a he perfect combination.
Don't hate me, karen. Excited to be reading this--and PS, Penguin is giving away 10 ARCs of this book here! http://bit.ly/1XseFCcYou can catch a sneak peek of the ARC + Laia's arm cuff on my Instagram, too: https://instagram.com/p/BGIFIxiTiHt. I can't seem to insert images here lately, otherwise I'd post a photo.
Every single character's story was amazing!This book has a slightly different feel to it than the first one since it's more spread out and there are more threats.
I won't summarize the plot here because pretty much everything feels like a spoiler and if you read the first book you know where Elias & Laia are heading and what Helene needs to do.
Sabaa Tahir is brilliant with how she wove everyone into the trickiest corners!I actually thought Elias and Laia were pretty much in character and just felt a bit different because they were dealing with a lot of stuff in their own fitting way.
To keep up with the times, and not fall into a dark chasm of old school fantasy, nineteenth century literature, Buddhist philosophy and postcolonial theory, I make sure I read one popular Y.A book a year.
It was much faster, for one, but that’s not always a good thing: it felt like plot had been sacrificed for action.
At one point I actually put the book down and considered if it was going anywhere in particular.
Perhaps I’ve gone beyond a reading stage where I read books like this.
it has the perfect balance of action and adventure (most of which stressed me out), with also enough teasing/hinting at things yet to come (so much so that ive turned into a crazy conspiracy theorist).
i know for sure this will be a re-read for me down the line because im positive there are so many things i have missed this first time around.
so even if i disapprove of many things the characters did in this book, i am just so fully invested in them at this point that there is no turning back now.
Laia becomes bolder with every chapter.
I had a Laia theory that was 10% right and Sabaa twisted my theory into something far greater.
And Helene's POV was such a welcome addition, and I'd easily read an entire book of just her alone.
This is one of those rare novels where I'm SO happy in everyone's POV that I'm not impatiently dying to get back to someone's chapter--everyone has their own cliffhangers and awesomeness going down.The audiobook narrators are fantastic, btw.I'm buying an invisibility cloak so I can read EMBER #3 while Sabaa Tahir writes it because I NEED MORE NOW!!!!
I’m deeply, truly underwhelmed. An Ember in the Ashes is one of my favorite YA fantasy debuts; Sabaa Tahir’s world was mesmerizing yet brutal, and it was so easy to lose myself in the bloody story of an Empire inspired by Greek and Roman culture. Sadly, in A Torch Against the Night I didn’t manage to fully grasp that flare of magic I was confident I’d find.   “So long as you fight the darkness, you stand in the light.”    A Torch Against the Night follows Elias and Laia’s quest to free Laia’s br
An Ember in the Ashes is one of my favorite YA fantasy debuts; Sabaa Tahir’s world was mesmerizing yet brutal, and it was so easy to lose myself in the bloody story of an Empire inspired by Greek and Roman culture.
A Torch Against the Night follows Elias and Laia’s quest to free Laia’s brother from the Kauf prison, and Helene’s struggle to serve a loathsome Emperor and be the Blood Shrike everybody fears.
As Laia and Elias traveled though the Martial Empire, with Helene high on their heels, we explored cultures, magical beings, heartache, and a major, jaw dropping plot twist that made the wait for A Reaper at the Gates almost unbearable.
There was never a dull moment.One thing that you should know going into this series is that the author isn't afraid to kill off characters.
Don't be surprised if some of your favorite characters get nixed along the way.
I was afraid to get too attached, fearing that I'd risk an emotional meltdown in the upcoming chapters.This second book provided a deeper look into the events that led up to the rise of the Martial Empire.
I cannot wait until the next installment to see how things work out for Elias and Laia.

I know many readers will enjoy Helene's POVs but personally, I just wanted to get back to Darin's rescue mission.As for Elias and the Soul Catcher, I was a little hesitant at first going into that storyline because I wasn't really sure how it fits into the big picture but I slowly began to grew accustomed to it.
I was expecting a little more from this book because the story I was actually hoping to read happens on the very last page but I guess that just means that the next book will be even better.
Well I wasn't planning on finishing this book tonight but here we are.
This is the only book in a while that has kept me reading past my bedtime because I just needed to FINISH!I really enjoyed ember when I read it but I think the hype got to me a bit too much and I didn't LOVE it.
I. LOVE.
BOOK.
I was also not 100% on board with it becoming a 4 book series at first (I love duologies!
I want more of them!) but after this book I so am.
I need more.
The different facets of this world actually make you understand the Empire and it's importance.I love Elias, Helena and Laia with all my heart.
You understand her every motive and every emotion and that's how Sabaa Tahir weaves her tangled webs.And finally, Elias.
My heart ached for him since the beginning of this book and it's aching still.
I just love him with all my heart and I need a better fate for him plz Sabaa pleeeeeaaaaaseeeee.I can't wait for the next book.
I need it now.-------------Before readingTHANK YOU PENGUIN AND SABAA FOR THIS BLESSING.Now the wait begins.
A Torch Against the Night is simply the superior YA Fantasy of the year. Hands down, there's no competition. An Ember in the Ashes was merely a prelude to the sinister follow up. The story remains about oppression, but unlike the first book this is where readers could vividly see the resistance at first hand. The stakes are higher. There is more gore, and violence.My heart is very delighted with the intricate political prose, but there are truths in it as well that parallels our past and contem
A Torch Against the Night touches that, but truly, the heart of the story is the girl who dared and the boy who rejected his destiny that is built on systematic oppression.
She’s a sword-wielding soldier, loyal to the empire-to her duty, family, and Elias.
“I’ve never seen the Scholars as enemies, exactly.
But the Scholars will never destroy the Martials.
If there’s one thing I got from Helene’s character is she thinks the martials are the superior race than the Scholars and the tribal people.
For Helene, they should merely accept their destiny as slaves.
She’s a fun character to read.
Full review to come. I might change my rating later. I need to process what i just read for a few days. Another book with my favorite buddy reader: Hayley!! Better get used to seeing her here. ;)
You are a torch against the night – if you dare to let yourself burn."“Failure doesn't define you.
Everything about 'A Torch Against the Night' was done so masterfully!
It has everything that makes a book great and I couldn't love it more.
From the plot to the writing, to the world building and to the characters, everything was so incredibly thought out and Sabaa Tahir takes us on one hell of a journey :D I loved having POV's from Laia, Elias, and Helene.
This series has such strong characters, you easily fall in love with them and hope for there happiness.
In fact, however Tahir’s character development is so weak and defective, I don’t think I would have noticed if the personality of any of the characters had underwent any change that didn’t concern who loves who, Laia’s do-goodism or Elias self-centered desire for redemption.
But while it’s true that Elias and Laia are inexcusably static, the third main character, Helene, gave me more food for thought.
I totally agree with the author’s choice to give Helene doubts about her doing, since seeing how strong Helene’s attachment to Elias and her loyalty to the Empire were, any other path for her would have felt like a bit out-of-character.
GOT MY COPY *happy dance* (which means I can stop giving ARC owners the evil eye haha... ahem.)-------------------------------Seems like everyone and their grandma has already got an ARC of this book and I'm just sitting here like...
I’m so glad I waited until right before the third books drops to read this because OH MY GOD. I’m dead. I can’t. I just—I ASPIRE TO WRITE STORIES AS GOOD AS THIS ONE. SABAA YOU ARE FOREVER MY INSPIRATION!
5 BIG BRIGHT BLAZING STARS FOR THIS ONE!    So long as you fight the darkness, you stand in the light.   GUYS  THIS BOOK!!!!!! GET HYPED BECAUSE ITS A FANTASTIC SEQUEL!! AHHHHH!!!THANK YOU SO MUCH PENGUIN FOR SENDING THIS TO ME! *deep breathes*Okay let's start from the beginning..  let me list my feels  This one picks up right where we left off with Elias and Laia running for their lives from Blackcliff. They're on the run with nowhere to go, just this mission of breaking Laia's brother out fro
We follow alternating points of view between Elias, Laia, and Helene.
You are a torch against the night- if you dare to let yourself burn."   *slow clap for amazing character development*I loved following her story and watching it interweave with Laia and Elias's story was brilliant!
this entire book was brilliant though  I loved watching Elias and Laia start to get to know each other better and eventually care for one another.
I'm so in love with him and it was so hard to read some of the things he was going through!!
Okay, as much as I am loving how fast paced these books are, I’m getting tired of the constant heart palpitations.
I need proper character arcs, development, background, detail!
Basically, more focus on the characters!We’re in their head for 2 seconds, whilst they’re expressing their worries and insecurities, but I still can’t fully connect to them.
I loved the first half of the book.
I was speeding through it, like you do with these books, but man, my heart isn’t connecting to the characters and the world as much as it would like.
Book3 better fix this shit up.
Released today!! Enjoy everyone!*3.5 stars* …“We should talk about it."Oh skies. “Talk about what?”“Whatever it is that’s bothering you. I can take a guess, but it might be better if you tell me.”“You want to talk now? After weeks of not even looking at me?”“I look at you.” His response is swift, his voice low. “Even when I shouldn’t.”  So…this might be the hardest review I’ll ever have to write. It’s never easy when something lets you down so harshly that you actually want to throw the book acr
He is still that man, and he honors every vow from book one…and he only has eyes for Laia (SERIOUSLY-I wouldn’t have thought this was huge, but boy was I wrong) even as he longs for the lost friendship of his dear life-long friend, Helene.
If any of you wanted to avoid a love triangle-whether this is legitimate in the end is beside the point-then perhaps you should pretend book one was a standalone as it was intended to be and give your heart a break.
