https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107291.Needful_Things
I’ve just opened today and I haven’t gotten all my goods unpacked, but you’re welcome to look around.”Gaunt had the strangest shade of green eyes that Jeff had ever seen.
Thousands.Gaunt appeared over his left shoulder.
“Only four dollars.”Gaunt gave him his best shark-like smile and said, “What a coincidence, that’s what I’m selling it for.”As Gaunt pulled it out of the case, Jeff could have sworn the page was a shopping list, but once Gaunt handed it over, he saw it was his precious review.
It's got all the things I like in a King book: suspense, action, gore, folksy humor (the cruel and the crude varieties), characters you can identify with, protagonists you care about, insane people and perverts, monsters and great big explosions.
All right, maybe just the most fun to read about.And, yes, this book had some of the Stephen King things I don't like so much.
But now it seems like you're being rather hard on the guy.But, you see, the thing is, Stephen King is sort of like the President of the United States of America.
I've read over thirty books by Stephen King.
It has a spiffy new green canvas awning with the name of NEEDFUL THINGS, and the creepy old yellow tooth proprietor, Leland Gaunt welcomes everyone with open arms......but YOU WON'T LIKE HIS TOUCH!
"EVERYTHING is for sale."......ALL those things you covet.....AND Mr. icky fingers Gaunt is very fond of playing 'Let's Make A Deal'.
SOON after the many well-defined characters make their purchases....and play a few harmless tricks....tempers flare....town residents become hostile, and all HELL breaks loose....with deadly results.The ending is definitely explosive, but not particularly frightening....not like jailbird bully Ace Merrill's encounter with evil, but still cleverly plotted and creepy.
SO........come play some mind games, see a bit of powerful magic and find out what Mr. Gaunt likes to collect.
Can Sheriff Alan Pangborn get to the bottom of Leland Gaunt and his Needful Things before he falls prey to the madness that's gripping the town?In what originally was intended to be its final appearance, Castle Rock goes out with a bang in this Stephen King tome.
Ace Merrill and Alan Pangborn are the only characters I remember from other books but I'm sure there were probably others.The story starts off slow as, one by one, the citizens of Castle Rock fall prey to Leland Gaunt's charms, buying his trinkets for whatever cash they have on them and doing pranks for him.
The plot itself was super interesting and I loved all the mysterious things that happened.
I found them interesting for the time being, but none of them truly stuck in my mind for long (which is usually the case whenever I read a book by King).I'm someone who finds good characters more important than an exciting plot, so the fact that I didn't feel close to the characters bothered me a lot.
If you're someone who cares more about a plot, I'm sure you will love this book, because the story on its own is unique and quite clever.
As a strange bout of madness grips the town and things start to get dangerous, the book takes a very sinister turn.If you've ever watched the 1990's show Eerie Indiana's episode featuring a sinister investor who turns a small town shop into a hub of madness for desperate shoppers, or if you've ever watched Gremlins, you'll definitely like the kind of spooky store atmosphere Needful Things casts out.
Stephen King crafts brilliant characters as usual, and though the Maine setting is a bit old considering it's chosen for almost all his books, the plot itself and the surprising events which unfold are definitely worth it.
What a fantastic book by the great man.
Needful things is a great book.
A shop owner who gives everybody what they want for a price.
How people covet the things they so desire and will do almost anything to get it.
Striving to get to the top and step on many to get there.The Black Friday day when hundreds or thousands of people queue outside a department store waiting for it to open.
People trampling over each other and fighting over merchandise.This book epitomizes the greed, envy, ambition and downright stupidity that us, as human beings, have come too.
Yeah, I think certain characters are useless and some scenes are pointless, but I dig this book quite a bit.
And we loved every minute of it.I think several things make readers ignore the bloat in Needful Things.
Poor guy.) (hide spoiler)]In summation: It's not the best book King has ever written, but it's far, far, far from his worst.
Needful Things is a favorite for many King fans, and I understand why.
I simply think he could have used fewer characters to the same end.
This is the grand blowout of the town, with evil creeping in and changing all of its residents from a patina of middle-class respectability and Rockwellian charm into roving bands of gleeful murderers with very dark hearts.And can we really blame it entirely upon Antique Madness?
Nah, it's just the greed and pride of humanity, stoked in just the right way, and that's what Stephen King is really known for.His supernatural aspects are generally underplayed and always in direct support of deep characterizations, of twisting flawed people into even more atrocious examples of humanity, with usually only a few semi-heroic survivors at the end that *sometimes* manage to make it through the fire.This novel is a shining example of all this, taking all the best simmering-pot boil-over of 'Salem's Lot, the twisted madness of Tommyknockers, and throwing in an epic battle of two older ladies eviscerating each other in broad daylight on the street.
still a solid king entry. read 3 times there is a lot of characterization and setting but also some good king creepiness. having said all that i may deduct 1/2 star upon most recent reread. 3.5 adjusted stars
Like always stephen King knows how to surprises us ???
King writes small town claustrophobic so well, the idea of a shop that sells any item that a custome
”Little shop. Little shop of horrors. Little shop. Little....”  Hey, it's much better when you sing it.  ”Little shop. Little shop of horrors. Little shop. Little shop of terror. Call a cop. Little shop of horrors...”  Kind of fitting? Okay, so not exact. I mean, there's no giant plant inside yelling, “Feeeed me Seymore!” But there might just be a monster of sorts inside the quaint new shop called Needful Things. He doesn't look like a monster. No, monsters never do. He looks like a man of cou
Little shop.
Little shop.
Little shop of terror.
Little shop of horrors...”
Little shop of horrors...”
Little shop of horrors...”
I mean, there's no giant plant inside yelling, “Feeeed me Seymore!” But there might just be a monster of sorts inside the quaint new shop called Needful Things.
He doesn't look like a monster.
He looks like a man of course.
Now that I think about it, a very kind man, that Leland Gaunt is.
Cause it don't take much in the town of Castle Rock to get things a going.I passed the shop today, but I won't be buying.
'Everyone loves something for nothing . . . even if it costs everything.' When new shop Needful Things opens in Castle Rock, there is soon an avalanche of customers desperate to 'buy now' but as the front cover says, you will pay later. Leland Gaunt is the proprietor and he has an extensive stock, something will definitely catch your eye, I guarantee it.Is it the perfect store? Well it possesses the thing you desire most and its available for whatever you think it's worth, with a small proviso,
Everyone it seems has a trick to play for Leland Gaunt and the repercussions get ever closer to a violent outcome of catastrophic proportions.So once again it's not a review as such but more a gushing of what I loved about Needful Things, so if you've not read it then proceed with caution, there will definitely be spoilers.First off young Brian Rusk and his baseball card, the start point of a particularly harrowing battle between two ladies equal in determination and destined to meet amidst knife and cleaver.
And Polly is just lovely, the pain, the pills, her terrible loss and the fight to overcome her purchase from Needful Things.
I was going to say that the reason I didn't like this book was the huge cast of characters, but that isn't true.
Sure, the huge cast bothered me, but I've read books like that before, the problem was far more to do with the writing.
I say this with the utmost respect for King, but it was.For example, the huge cast of characters followed a largely identical format.
The ending was just a variation of riding off into the sunset but with the identical language that every other book/movie uses.
Το βιβλίο αποτελείται από 3 μέρη.
Το πρώτο μέρος κυλάει αρκετά αργά, αλλά ο συγγραφέας κάνει σπουδαία και βαθιά ανάλυση στους χαρακτήρες της ιστορίας και μας προετοιμάζει άψογα για το τι θα επακολουθήσει.
Το δεύτερο μέρος μας βάζει πλέον για τα καλά στην υπόθεση και τα πάντα μπαίνουν σε μία σειρά.
Το τρίτο μέρος αν και με γρήγορη πλέον δράση, μου φάνηκε ότι τράβηξε την ιστορία από τα μαλλιά, ότι έγινε λίγο "ότι να’ ναι".
Μου φάνηκε ότι αυτό το βιβλίο γράφτηκε από δύο συγγραφείς, έναν προσεκτικό και υπεραναλυτικό στο πρώτο μέρος, και έναν ανυπόμονο και ολίγον τι παρανοϊκό στο τρίτο!3.5/5 αστεράκια.
Well, make a sensation it does, and only King could create such an odd mixture of small-town life and big-time evil working in perfect conjunction with each other.The fictional Maine town of Castle Rock has made several appearances in King’s earlier novels; it was the setting for Cujo and The Dark Half, as well as the short stories “The Body” (which became the film Stand By Me), and “The Sun Dog.” Also, the protagonist of The Dead Zone stopped by just long enough to catch the Castle Rock Strangler, twenty years before the events of NF.
While a character like Alan is usually irritating in a book so fundamentally free of optimism as Needful Things, there is also something very basic and natural about the White Knight Alan facing the sinister Gaunt for the souls of Castle Rock.
Despite that The Stand is my favourite King novel, Needful Things comes a very close second.In some ways it is a much more intriguing story in that it deals with a much more base issue: human greed and the things people will do for personal gain.Leland Gaunt arrives in Castle Rock, the setting for a good handful of King’s novels, opening up a bric-a-brac shop.
This he does very well and the interactions, positive and negative flow well with the plot.Despite the fantastical setting, the plot is believable because it criticises human greed and explores how it consumes, asking us all the way “how far would you go to obtain your inner-most secret desire?”See more book reviews at my blog
Absolutely amazing and epic tale that perfectly captures and creates the quintessential essence of small town America.
The large cast of characters are all so unique, perfectly fleshed out and entertaining.
Leland Gaunt is badass and so cleverly, evil and cunning that he's one of King's best characters in my opinion.
The way King was able to concoct such a harrowing and complex tale of diabolical wickedness is astounding.
It's a long tome but it's well worth the time and it goes by quickly because it's so engrossing.
In my top 3 King books of all time.
What a book!
Needful Things is my favorite Stephen King novel.
I felt that way going into this reread, and those feelings did not change upon reading it for the...fourth time, I think it is now.
This novel is King at his most Dickensian: these small town people are folks all readers can relate to; the way these characters' lives intertwine with one another are an absolute joy to read about.
And like the best of Dickens's work, this book is fucking hilarious at times.
I laugh until I cry every time I read Needful Things; typically I find King's humor to be a little hit or miss.
Don’t let the lack of word-of-mouth around this one fool you: there’s a lot of meat to really dig into in this novel, in terms of plot, character, setting, (and even nods to earlier novels) that any fan of horror or thriller genres is sure to be entertained.Even though Needful Things might not have captured the attention of Hollywood’s remake and reboot machine – just yet anyway – it is directly connected to the Hulu show Castle Rock, which is an anthology series of untold stories conceptualized by Stephen King over the course of his career but never written.Both the show, and Needful Things, take place in the fictional Maine town that King has centered a number of his stories in, and both share a few characters that made both watching the show and reading this book at the same time a great deal of fun.Anyone who has read even one Stephen King novel knows that where he really shines – aside from the horror – is in his characters.
So are you familiar with the Lemony Snicket book, A Series of Unfortunate Events?
Well this book could be, a series of depressing dark events.I am a bit ambivalent about Mr. King's books anyway.
I have for years found his books a "mixed bag"...that is for me of course.
I have liked many of his more recent books so when I hit a dry spell recently and no book drew me in I decided to drop back and pick up one of his books I never read.The story here?
Some of you will love this book (and many have).
When I read it I felt wow. Stephen King crawls through your mind and comes up with themes that throw out your darkest.....everything. Fear...hatred...everything you felt bad about anything...This book is an embodiment of all these brought to life in a quiet town. I finished this in one go.
And I’m happy to report that I started it off with a bang.Though I’ve visited through film and the novella Gwendy’s Button Box, Needful Things marks my first novel-length journey into Castle Rock.
Needful Things was no exception.Castle Rock is a quaint little town that has experienced it share of weird.
Regardless, nearly everyone in town ends up paying Mr. Leeland Gaunt a visit at his curiosity shop, Needful Things.
They get a steal of a deal, as long as they’re also willing to perform a tiny favor for the proprietor in the form of a harmless prank played on another Castle Rock citizen.
Un libro que acabo de ver que tenía sin valorar y leí durante el verano del 93
"YOU’VE BEEN HERE BEFORE.   Sure you have. Sure. I never forget a face."  Whoever said "nothing in life is free", has apparently read this book. A small town (one Constant Readers have seen many times before) is about to get a brand new business.  Anything your tiny heart desires is in that store. Anything at all! There's that rare baseball card you've been hunting for ages! Oh, and look at those sunglasses worn by The King himself! Have you seen that gorgeous lamp you were never able to affor
Whoever said "nothing in life is free", has apparently read this book.
A small town (one Constant Readers have seen many times before) is about to get a brand new business.
Have you seen that gorgeous lamp you were never able to afford?
The only thing that remains to be seen is if that price is worth it in the end.
"Can I read the sign?
It says OPENING SOON on top, and under that, ANSWERED PRAYERS, A NEW KIND OF STORE.
And the last line-wait a minute, it’s a little smaller-the last line says You won’t believe your eyes!Interesting name for a store, ain’t it?
Answered Prayers.
Es una genial idea y King la trató con soberbia, perfectamente; hasta el punto en que superó mis expectativas.
también algo peculiar, y acá es en donde reside la gracia del libro: el señor Gaunt pide que el comprador, a cambio del producto, haga una pequeña broma, aparentemente inofensiva, a alguien.
Una historia muy inteligente, muy bien lograda y entrelazada.Lo único que le critico es que me hubiera gustado un final diferente.
Es una exageración que se da muy bien durante toda la novela, pero en el final el autor debió mostrar que todavía hay algo bueno, que todavía hay humanidad.
Growing up, this was one of my favorite of this author’s works.
It builds.
You watch it happen.
You are the witness.
You suspect what Needful Things is all about.
An object is inside the store that you must have.
It makes things...
all better.
The gentleman that runs the store, he wants you to have it.
He’s a salesman after all.
You watch people drift in and out of this shop, make deals and reclaim objects that remind them of good times.
The plot builds.
You just watch the town go about its life, some people lost in dreams.
Always said this was one of my favorites of his, from when I read it many years ago, but never gave it a reread - still good, had a lot of fun listening to it this time around, but didn't enjoy it quite as much as I remembered. Original rating still stands (my tastes have just morphed slightly I suppose) but definitely wanted to give a rating to the audiobook. Still highly recommended, if you're looking for that creepy small-town feel!
Absolutely loved this one and yes I should have read all of the Castle Rock ones together but life goes on. :)
