https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1003527.Tragedy_at_Law

Things begin to look rather bleak for the judge and his lady--at the very least financial ruin in a settlement and quite possibly the loss of his position on the bench if the case can't be settled out of court.
Through all of the attacks and a final suicide attempt by the judge (who doesn't want to face public ruin), his wife Hilda manages to save him from the unknown assailant and himself.
Tragedy at Law gives us a very detailed look at the legal life in Britain during World War II and manages to do so without boring the reader with the details.
Hare (the pseudonym for real-life judge Gordon Clark) wrote legal thrillers before they were a genre; this one illuminates the peculiar English institution of the Assizes, the ancient system whereby touring judges traveled a regular circuit from town to town, presiding over whatever cases had been referred for trial.
The solution to the mystery, as in most of Hare's books, hinges on a point of law.All quite fascinating if you have an interest in the peculiarities of the English legal system; not a pulse-pounder, but elegantly written and justly regarded as a minor classic.
Cyril Hare drew on his own legal experience (he ended up as a county court judge) for his delightful 1942 crime novel Tragedy at Law. It’s both a crime story and a very amusing satirical look at the legal profession.
And in a nice touch the solution to the mystery hinges on a rather obscure point of law.
But Tragedy at Law has a great deal more going for it as well.
It has an unusual structure, but I can’t say any more about that without risking spoilers.
It’s an enormous amount of fun, and I can’t recommend it too highly.
The judge is a man a bit beyond middle years, somewhat objectionable, but a good lawyer.
His brilliant and ambitious wife Hilda will do whatever is necessary to prevent that.A series of curious events indicate that someone may have a more permanent fate in mind for the judge.This is an absolutely hilarious book, all the more remarkable because the author never stoops to anything so crude as a joke.
It's essentially a comedy of manners as it follows the rather pompous judge, his somewhat crude clerk, the young marshal, and the rest from town to fictional town throughout the south of England.
There's bad blood between marginally unsuccessful barrister Francis Pettigrew and Judge Barber, and the mere fact that Barber's life seems to be unwinding doesn't mean he'll ease up on Pettigrew. But can the mild attorney really be the one making Barber's life a misery? Inspector Mallett thinks he knows who is responsible for the attacks on Barber, but his theory doesn't make psychological sense. This book features a fascinating look at how the assize courts in England worked at the start of the Second World War, at least for an American whose courts operate very differently.
Instead, it was located in a particularly shabby office on the corner of Euston Road and Melton Street (reminiscent of one of the more rundown buildings that housed the peripheral branches of the intelligence services in John le Carré’s books) and covered the Inns of Court.
As a consequence, the overwhelming majority of its taxpayers were either barristers or solicitors, spanning both the knights of the legal profession in the form of immensely successful QCs whose exploits featured regularly in the Times Law Reports, and also the waifs and strays of the Bar, perpetually struggling to survive from one dock brief to the next, often going months without ever seeing the inside of a court, or receiving even a sniff of a client.
The humour also fits in with the cynicism of Pettigrew, which works because Pettigrew’s the ‘detective’ of the novel.That said, the ending of the book was a little hard to understand.
I had to read that last chapter a couple of times before I understood it.Overall, I enjoyed this novel, although I personally prefer An English Murder.
I liked the humour present in the book and the use of Derek as the main POV character, although the ending does detract from the story a little.This review was first posted at Inside the mind of a Bibliophile
Once again a rather slow meandering novel from Cyril Hare (as with Suicide Excepted), in which there is very little “action” and it’s written in a genteel style that’s very much of its time.
Inspector Mallet barely features so there’s no central “detective figure” and this just barely rates being tagged as a crime novel (based on modern standards).
In fact it’s surely no spoiler to reveal that pretty much nothing happens in this novel.
But suddenly right at the absolute end it all suddenly tumbles out.
And then there’s a very abrupt end as though Hare just ran out of steam after ‘the big reveal’.
I really enjoyed this book chiefly because I was enchanted by the language, reminding me of the precision and wit of Dorothy L. Sayers, and also for the endearing and well-rounded character studies.
Review pending
This was a disappointing ending. Tension built well, great character development, but an unraveling that only a legal specialist could appreciate . Definitely not my favorite genre.
B+
An entertaining read. A good old fashioned mystery, nicely written with an entertaining observation of people. Got a bit confused towards the end with the big reveal but will forgive it that.
A pretty narrow genre I would have thought but there we are.Tragedy at Law describes what happens when a High Court judge, Mr Justice Barber, embarks upon a tour of duty on the ‘Southern Circuit’ during the early days of World War Two. As someone almost totally ignorant of the old Assizes procedure, I found the nuts and bolts of this facet of the legal profession very interesting, although a little more detail wouldn’t have gone amiss.The book starts slowly (there is a long, scene-setting opening chapter wherein we are introduced to most of the principal players in the story) but picks up pace when Barber receives firstly an anonymous threatening letter and then a box of his favourite chocolates that have been unconventionally ‘spiked’.
He uses his expertise in the law and his inside knowledge of the workings of the English legal system to very good effect in "Tragedy at Law", a well-written and entertaining whodunit that is set in England in the early 1940s.The story concerns what happens to the Honourable Sir William Hereward Barber, Justice of the King's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice, as he moves from one town to another presiding over cases in the southern England circuit.
For example, one of the other main characters is a barrister and amateur detective named Francis Pettigrew (who apparently appears in some of Hare's other novels).
I vaguely remembered the name Cyril Hare, so I thought I would try it out.
All does not go smoothly - Barber gets threatening letters, someone sends him poisoned chocolates, he almost dies when the gas is left on in his room, and his wife is attacked.
To make matters worse, Barber gets a little tipsy and runs over a pedestrian, who happens to be a famous pianist.
Cyril Hare is the pen name of Alfred Gordon Clark, a real-life English judge.
My personal favorites were Derek Marshall, Lady Barber, and Francis Pettigrew, a lawyer who solves the case.This is not a fast-moving murder mystery.
It was not as quick a read as the light-hearted cover made it out to be, and the back cover blurb was somewhat misleading; one is led to believe that Pettigrew is the one who will be solving the case, but in reality he is not all that involved in the proceedings -- it's the judge's wife and the Marshal, amusingly surnamed Marshall, who do most of the sleuthing.
Of course that could have just been because I was skimming rather a lot, having lost patience with the story about halfway through but wanting to see how it all turned out.To sum up, recommended for those who like Golden Age detective fiction or mysteries involving the courts, but as a more slow-paced, "sit at home in an armchair with a cup of tea" read.
It was very enjoyable and Cyril Hare has a very interesting, fine sense of humor--which permeates the whole book, but was a bit lost on me at the very beginning, since I didn't know the characters.
I am looking forward to reading other of Hare's books.
I highly recommend this one.Here is a list of his adult fiction books (at least according to Wikipedia):Tenant for Death (1937)Death Is No Sportsman (1938)Suicide Excepted (1939)Tragedy at Law (1942)With a Bare Bodkin (1946)When the Wind Blows (US title The Wind Blows Death, 1949)An English Murder (1951)That Yew Tree's Shade (US title Death Walks the Woods, 1954)He Should Have Died Hereafter (US title and also some UK reprints Untimely Death, 1958)Best Detective Stories of Cyril Hare (US title Death Among Friends, 1959)
Synopsis: when an anonymous letter arrives for Mr. Justice Barber warning revenge, he dismisses it. It's followed by a second and poisoned chocolates.
Written in 1942, it takes place early in the war.
Judge William Barber is a circuit judge, and most of the story takes place while he is on the circuit, where several strange things happen.
It turns out his registration and insurance is out of date and the man who badly injured a finger is a well known pianist.
Worried he will lose his job and doesn't have the money to pay off the injured man, Barber tries to commit suicide and is saved by his wife, who has been trying to encourage him all along.
I wanted to read this Golden Age mystery as a result of the praise that P.D. James heaped on it in her book about detective fiction.
Beginning it, I was sceptical as it had the potential to be stuffy and dry, but it proved to be wonderful.
Hare was himself a county judge, and the story revolves around an assize court judge in 1939-40 (the book was published in 1942, which makes for some very interesting foreshadowing).
During a circuit, the judge begins to receive anonymous nasty notes, and various other things go wrong.
Ah, the Golden Age. This is another in the top ten, cited in a recent "Books to the Ceiling" blog, written by retired librarian Roberta Rood.
It moves at such a leisurely pace that the first corpse doesn't turn up till well after the halfway mark--unthinkable by today's standards.
Read as a novel, though, it has many charms.Sample dialog:"But my dear fellow, it would never do to have a thing like this proclaimed from the housetops.
Surely you can see that?""Things oughtn't to be hushed up," said the young man obstinately.
"After all, if there is such a thing as justice...""Good lord!
Maybe the best of Cyril Hare's books--certainly featuring the best characters, the most realistic atmosphere, and (until the last chapter) the most gripping mystery of all that I've read so far.
The Judge is such a well-rounded unlikeable character, it's suspense simply waiting to see if anything will happen to him after all.
Unfortunately, the last chapter rushes at three times the pace as any of the other chapters, solving the mystery at breakneck speed at the expense of character, tone, and overall enjoyment.
I'm blaming the editors of 1942, who probably didn't want a 450 page mystery, unless it was by Dorothy Sayers.
Although it has all the conventional components of murder, suspects, a police investigation, and a solution, Tragedy at Law is an unusual detective novel in that the focus of the plot is neither the murder, nor the search for the murderer. These occur only at the very end, and are dealt with briefly, providing the conclusion to the main story, a detailed portrayal of the work of the Court of Assizes, told as a fictional account of an eventful two month circuit in the south of England during the early years of the Second World War. Continued
Although it has all the conventional components of murder, suspects, a police investigation, and a solution, Tragedy at Law is an unusual detective novel in that the focus of the plot is neither the murder, nor the search for the murderer. These occur only at the very end, and are dealt with briefly, providing the conclusion to the main story, a detailed portrayal of the work of the Court of Assizes, told as a fictional account of an eventful two month circuit in the south of England during the early years of the Second World War. Continued
I really enjoyed reading this, although in the edition that I had the type was rather small and cramped.
Several seemingly unrelated plots were all tied together in a very interesting way.
Like An English Murder the motive for the crime rests on a rather arcane point of British law, but it was still interesting.
I am noticing, though, that a ridiculous number of British mystery novels from that time period end with somebody tipping off the murderer so that they can kill themselves and avoid the indignity of a trial.
It would be nice to see the murderer get arrested from time to time.
Although regarded as a classic crime novel by P D James among others, I found this rather disappointing. Set in the early 1940s it has good period atmosphere, but the pace is slow and the characters are stereotypes. I am not usually very good at spotting the culprit but I saw this one a mile off. This may all explain why I had never heard of Cyril Hare before and he hasn’t enjoyed the long-lasting appeal of Agatha Christie, Dorothy L Sayers, etc.
“Tragedy at Law” is a novel that P.D. James has championed on a number of occasions. It’s the only novel of Cyril Hare still in print and is most likely the best of his many novels.“Tragedy at Law” is high-class holiday reading. An extremely well written, entertaining whodunit that should please fans of the genre
Not for the ADDers out there. In a novel 252 pages long, the murder doesn't happen until page 220, with the identity of the killer revealed on page 243. On the other hand, some very witty writing, some delightful characters, plenty of motivation, and a wonderfully realized British court, and I really wasn't absolutely sure whodunnit until the very last moment.
