https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17329076-letter-from-an-unknown-woman-and-other-stories
5 huge stars for such emotional and heartbreaking short stories It's been years since I discovered Stefan Zweig.
She knew I read mostly romance and even if his work is SO far from what I usually enjoy, well she had a feeling I might be into this too.
What can I say about Stefan Zweig's work?
How can I describe best my feelings while reading his stories?
I *never* cry while reading, no matter how sad the story gets, BUT while reading this one, I got pretty close to crying, I had my heart in my throat and I could barely breath.
I really enjoyed this - a tender, moving and so well written short story collection, looking at unrequited love, obsession and changes in lives over time. I'd highly recommend.
I have to admit that Zweig is fast becoming one of my all-time great writers.
I absolutely loved this short stories book and it’s a genre that I don’t usually like or get that engaged with.
The first one which the book is named after is about a letter that a 40 something year old writer received from a woman that he barely recognises but this woman has loved him her entire life.
It sounds simple but the story that wraps around this letter is heart breaking and beautiful at the same time.
Zweig is able to pull your heart strings unlike many writers.
These four stories all center on first love.
The title story is indeed, almost entirely a letter recounting a love that began at age 13.
The final story, Forgotten Dreams is very short.
The youthful love isn't clear and one must read between the lines, but it is my impression.Stefan Zweig's prose is a delight to read.
I haven't had a lot of good reads lately, and this was a refreshing change.
This is not as good as his Chess Story, but perhaps only because it is so entirely different from that offering.
I made an exception for ‘Letter from an Unknown Woman’ because The Post-Office Girl was utterly fantastic, so any Zweig book that I could find in the library seemed well worth a try.
The four stories here don’t add up to the same incredible experience as that full length novel, however they are still compelling and rather beautiful.
‘Letter from an Unknown Woman’ depicts this most powerfully and is therefore the most moving of the four.
‘The Debt Paid Late’ likewise carries considerable emotional weight, perhaps because it also takes the form of a letter written by a woman.
"Letter from an unknown woman" such a pathetic & strongly emotional and frustrating sad story .. I can't help but feel sorry for poor little heroine her great big love had ruined her entire life she suffered a lot specially the loss of her child i only wished she was a little stronger💔Loved The movie it was great too and I so much love classical movies hopefully one day i will create my own classical DVDs library.
Cái vô thức nữ tính và nhiệt thành!Không hiểu sao đọc xong mình đều cảm thấy 2 nhân vật nữ này đều là người buông mịn theo vô thức , nỗi niềm tình cảm sâu thẳm nhất, dục vọng và khao khát nguyên sơ mà mãnh liệt, những cái tuyệt đối không màng lí trí.
Cô ấy yêu tưởng không lí trí mà thực ra rất lí trí, vì nó là thứ tình cảm duy nhất có giá trong đời mình, nên cô đánh cuộc cả cuộc đời mịn vào nó, hết lòng mà không có kì vọng.
I loved these stories.
They were my introduction to Zweig.
The first story/novella, "Letter From An Unknown Woman," is by far the best of the four.
I can't really explain to you what it felt like reading that, as a girl who had had similar dreams about one person, and only one person, for nearly two decades.
All of the stories border on melodrama, but I think that that was the style of the era.
It didn't bother me, because I tend to gravitate toward stories of this type.
I will definitely be reading more Zweig.
So I decided to read my second Zweig book, 'Letter from an Unknown Woman'.
Only lonely children can keep a passion entirely to themselves; others talk about their feelings in company, wear them away in intimacy with friends, they have heard and read a great deal about love, and know that it is a common fate.
It looks like an imaginary story set in a castle in Scotland where a boy in his middle / late teens - an age which has been described by some writers as too old to be a boy but too young to be a man - this boy meets a woman in the night when he is taking a stroll.
There, I didn’t mean my story to be dark and melancholy—I only wanted to tell you about a boy suddenly surprised by love, his own and someone else’s.
Twilight falls with its veils, the sorrow that rests in the evening is a starless vault above them, darkness seeps into their blood, and all the bright, colourful words in them have as full and heavy a sound as if they came from our inmost hearts.c) Forgotten Dreams I didn’t feel angry with you, I had no moments of confused, hostile indecision, since life had cooled the bright blaze of love to a dying glow of friendship by that time.
Just finished the first story and it worths a five-star. The story is deeply sad and pathetic. Reminds me of some pathetic old days. The pain was so real and it lasts for years. I'm shocked that I still feel it when I read this story today. Love is always one's own business. Indeed. All the painful happiness I've tried to hide carefully; all the struggles I've been through without making a sound; all the tears I've shed in the darkness. You never know.
A dispetto del fatto che il più “gettonato” sia Lettera di una sconosciuta, i racconti di questa raccolta che personalmente ho preferito sono stati Bruciante segreto e Resistenza della realtà.In un certo senso, questi ultimi sono “simmetrici”.
Resistenza della realtà racconta invece di momenti lungamente agognati che, col passare del tempo, si appannano sino a non poter essere colti quando sono finalmente a portata di mano, perché, ormai, the time is over.
Forse un filino tirati troppo per le lunghe, a rigor del vero, ma nell’insieme molto belli.Anche Lettera di una sconosciuta è notevole, ma non nel senso in cui paiono averla intesa quasi tutti.
Hekayənin özünü bəyəndim amma sonluğu ürəyimcə olmadı.
The book is written as a long letter written by a woman to the man she loves, but because he's been with so many women in his life, she doesn't expect him to know her.
When she first falls in love with him, she's an adolescent, and I thought that part of the book was remarkably well done.
But the protagonist never loses interest in the man.
When she is 18, the man finally takes notice of her, and she gives herself to him readily.
She gives her body to anybody, but her heart belongs to one man.
I don't know about his other stories, but through these two, I can tell that he's a man that really has a gift for understanding women and their nature in love :))I love how the author just let the characters speak for themselves, telling the stories from the first person perspective, which makes the stories more real, helping readers to indulge in the stories and feel for the characters' situations.
And not to mention the beautiful metaphors and charming words/sentences, at the sufficient level (not less, but not too much.
U ovom mom primjerku zbirke "Pismo nepoznate žene i druge priče" pored novele iz naslova, našle su se još tri.
Dok sam čitala prvu i do tada jedinu za koju sam čula, ovu iz naslova, nisam bila oduševljena.
Previše patetike, mislila sam, kako cijeloga života da voliš nekog ko te ne primjećuje, da mu pišeš dok umireš, bla bla.
Nakon nje još bolje "Slomljeno srce" i "Mora".
Prevod je predivan, žalim što nisam mogla ući u trag prevodiocu jer sam čitala neku od mnogih elektronskih verzija, mogu tek da zamislim kako to izgleda u originalu.
A Letter from Unknown Woman - 4/5A Story Told in Twilight - 3/5The Debt Paid Late - 5/5Forgotten Dreams - 5/5Overall: 4/5First two were meh, they seemed too childish to me (when did i exactly turn into an old grandma??), but the last two were amazing. I wish I wrote the last one myself (especially that last sentence, Zweig is a real short story master).
I have greatly enjoyed everything I have ever read by Stefan Zweig—from his masterful “Days of Yesterday” to his biographies, particularly his “Marie Antoinette”—and this small collection of four short stories is no exception.
I suppose it is Zweig’s now slightly passé humanism that attracts me so much to his work, and, of course, his talent as a storyteller.
These stories all, in one fashion or another, speak of love.
These are all rewarding and, at times, troubling reads.
My first encounter with Zweig was through his little known (and most probably unfinished) last novel "The Post-Office Girl" which I loved so much I started reading his other works.
Melodramatic, repetitive, "what-else-can-I-throw-in-there-to-make-you-weep-my-dear-reader" type of story.
Is the reader supposed to cheer for "pure" love like hers?
I'm going to proceed with caution with Zweig now.
Starts now:if he did indeed recognize her and even married her, poor chap, she would have driven him bonkers with her obsession.
She then would have written him a letter about how she loved him too much but doesn't blame him and on and on and on...
Số phận người con trai chính là một ví dụ hiện sinh điển hình, khi anh không có bố và trong mặt mẹ của mình anh chỉ là hình bóng thay thế cho người bố mà anh sẽ không bao giờ biết đến.
Sự tự ti của người nghèo đã kéo cô vào sự ngưỡng vọng thần tượng.
Tình cảm trong cô có lẽ không phải tình yêu mà là sự thần tượng và ảo vọng quá mức và bởi giữ mãi những ảo vọng xa xôi đó mà con cô và cả cô đều phải chết.
Questo libro su di me ha avuto un effetto strano: alcuni dei nove racconti (Bruciante segreto e Scarlattina) mi hanno subito coinvolta, quasi emozionata, forse perche' mi riconoscevo in alcune cose; altri racconti (Era lui?
Lettera di una sconosciuta, Primavera al Prater , Due anime sole, Resistenza della realta' e Un uomo che non si dimentica mi hanno appassionato molto senza coinvolgermi troppo.
A distanza di pochi giorni dall'aver finito il libro, mi sono resa conto che i suoi personaggi erano ancora con me, ben presenti nella mia mente.
Non so come spiegarlo, ma tutti i personaggi dei libri di Zweig lasciano un segno nell'anima, almeno nella mia.
Bản thân cảm thấy ranh giới giữa hợp lý, bất hợp lý, giữa cái đạo đức và vô đạo đức, giữa đức hạnh và không đức hạnh, tất cả đều nhạt nhòa hơn bao giờ hết.
Cái hạnh phúc của sự phóng khoáng, tự do của R thì tôi có thể hiểu được, nhưng tôi không tài nào tin được một phụ nữ có thể yêu một cách điên cuồng sâu đậm như cô, hi sinh tất cả chỉ đề là một cái bóng nhạt nhòa trong đời anh.
Chỉ biết rằng khi đọc đến những dòng cuối, Thủy thấy đau , đau lắm.
Wow. My uncle recommended the author to me, I'd seen the film of the first story so thought I'd try it.Excellent short stories. And you know, they felt like novels - the detail, plots, characterisation I usually complain is absent in short stories were all present and correct. Great ideas, excellent narrations and styles (letters, looking to the past, inner thoughts), with a theme and slight connection running through. Admittedly the final one I didn't like but at 9 pages I just didn't have much to connect to.Very worthwhile, beautifully written. Now seeking out 'Chess', another recommendation.
This was a severe letdown. While the short stories/novellas are readable, they are simple regurgitations of one another. Sturburness in face of love. Regret. Holding a flame. Chance encounters. You've read this before and you've read it done better.That being said, Zweig is a good writer. He keeps a solid pace, but these stories are outdated and generally read like mid afternoon soap operas.Maybe it's just the wrong stories to start with but I am trying to figure where Wes Anderson got his inspiration from this author.
The style of Zweig's writing is very reminiscent of the Wes Anderson movie "The Grand Budapest Hotel." It's a romantic, elegant style.I enjoyed these stories very much. They all deal with love, and also with crushes - with the way we can become obsessed with a person we have a crush on.They're very well done. At the moments when I feared that the pace of the stories was slowing down a bit, each time, Zweig would catch my attention again shortly after with a plot development or a clever observation or insight.
Wow, as good as the movie. Will interest any reader from the first line, a highly emotional, & heart-wrenching unrequited love story. Every time the female protagonist mentioned about her dead child,it was so touching that I wanted to cry at her wretched life. Everyone should read Zweig and this is a good book to start.(Did you know?:he was invited to give eulogy at freud's and also earned the admiration of Hesse)
Read one of these (no spoiler) - literally incredible at moments, but devastating nonetheless.
So beautifully written, it's as if Mr. Zweig is a lost Bronte. Heartbreaking, I think I'll spend the next couple of weeks reading all of his books.
Most of these stories left me indifferent (my initial rating was a 2.5) but the last one, Forgotten Dreams, managed to make it to my all-time favorites list. 3.5
Trước đó chưa bao giờ, trong những lần đọc sách ít ỏi của mình, cảm giác rùng mình này lại đến với tôi sớm như vậy, thường phải đến giữa hoặc cuối tác phẩm.
Riêng với tác phẩm này lại khiến tôi có cảm giác ám ảnh và nhức nhối đến kì lạ.-----"Em có buồn thực sự vì anh đi không?"."Người yêu em cũng thế, cứ đi xa hoài"."Người ta đi rồi người ta lại về" "Phải, khi trở về thì người ta đã quên."P.s. Đọc bản ebook nên chẳng có "24 giờ trong đời một người đàn bà" :(
