https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61903.Shards_of_Honour
Final review, first posted on Fantasy Literature: Shards of Honor (often packaged with Barrayar and sold as Cordelia's Honor) is one of those SF space opera books that I love beyond reason and pull off my bookshelf every few years to reread, contentedly immersing myself in Bujold’s well-imagined world and the relationship between two characters I adore.A bit of background: I started my VORKOSIGAN SAGA experience years ago when I grabbed A Civil Campaign off the library shelves, and was introduced to the very short, brilliant, terrifyingly competent and wildly adventurous Miles Vorkosigan.
i look at books like this, and i feel like the author probably will discuss speculative science with wormholes and alien warfare and gravity and i will be forced to skim until it gets back to interesting stuff, so i would typically give it a pass in favor of something that has at least one foot in a realistic atmosphere.but a girl makes promises.and then to my delight, this started off really strong.
so that was a second thing i liked about this book; strong characters who make sense as partners, not just falling in love because they happen to be near each other and so love naturally must follow.
the title "Shards of Honor" no doubt refers to the small bits of honor that Aral must cling to as he finds himself a central figure in a massive undertaking that will sacrifice thousands of innocents for the greater good; it also may refer to the honor that Cordelia herself gains and loses and gains again as her fate becomes increasingly intertwined with that of the unjustly infamous Aral - also known as "The Butcher of Komarr".
the reader gets to enjoy interesting bits of xenobiology (not delivered via massive world-building infodumps) while Cordelia and Aral's intriguing and entirely sympathetic personalities slowly unfold, to the reader and to each other.
but Shards of Honor is indeed a lovely thing - a quietly moving experience.
A buddy read with Choko.Commander Cordelia Naismith of Beta Colony and her crew were doing some harmless exploration on an unassuming planet when Barrayars (guys from another planet) decided they like the place.
Some unforeseen circumstances made them attack Betans which resulted in Cordelia and a high-ranking Barrayar officer Aral Vorkosigan being stranded on the planet with the former being a prisoner of the latter - sort of.
I liked the character of Cordelia and to the lesser extent Aral.
Conclusion: a good enough tale, but Falling Free is much better starting point for the series.
Yes, yes, it's a romance on the battlefield and we have tons of action on a wild planet and in space with outright space battles, but it's the interactions between all these fantastic characters that makes this shine.
How about disillusionment with our homes and putting all our cards down on a gamble for the rest of your life and happiness?Truly, there's a lot more depth to this book than most people might credit it.
This is one of them.#utterfanboyOriginal review:I thought the careful and considered match between Aral and Cordelia was charming.
*** 4 ***A buddy read with Evgeny!This was the first time we got to meet a Vorkosigan, the family name after which this series is named.
Until the real world shows them once again how impossible it is for them to ever have a chance to see if the mutual attraction they had developed could grow into something more...
Faith could be such a bitch at times!!!I loved this book, I love the world building, and I really hope that the series continues in this manner, because if it does, Evgeny and I are in for a very interesting ride.
Hostile man takes woman prisoner, and they fall in love while death-marching across alien planet.
Dialogue was engaging, and I find her writing style is a nice balance between world-building and action, and pleasantly sophisticated in wording and ideas.
The first part of the book, the march across the alien world, was enjoyable, but I found the plot seriously disintegrating towards the end, especially when (view spoiler)[ Cordelia's people start to suspect her of being brain-washed.
But we gloss over those challenges  (hide spoiler)] As an ship captain, Cordelia displays a surprising amount of both political knowledge and naivete, and she wasn't perhaps as fleshed out as Lord Vorkosigan, despite the story being told from her perspective.
In the courtship of Cordelia Naismith and Aral Vorkosigan, this book reminds me of Regency Romances (in her review, Elizabeth calls then them the space-faring equivalent of Anne Elliot and Wentworth, which sounds about right).
Even in her first novel (of many, many to come, including about a dozen in this series), Lois McMaster Bujold is an assured and witty writer, content to take her time with character, something that a lot of sci-fi writers see little use for.Which brings me to the part of the book that didn't work quite as well for me -- the sci-fi parts.
These books might be old (this particular volume was published in 1986) but they hold up very nicely and address ageless topics, some even in a better way than modern books do.This second volume (my group and I read them in chronological order) is about Cordelia Naismith, a Betan captain of a survey team, and Aral Vorkosigan, a commander of a Barrayaran military outpost.
Cordelia's people are a bit more advanced when it comes to the role of women and equality (less "stiff" one might say) but also kind of unorganized and childish in many instances, while the Barrayaran society is patriarchal and militaristic.

➽ And the moral of this Please Please Please Maria Don’t File for Divorce Just Yet I Promise I’ll Be Good From Now On and Will Read All the Books Right I’ll Even Give You A 24-Hour Pass to the High Security Harem If That’s What It Takes to Preserve Our Nefariously Blissful Union Crappy Non Review (PPPMDFfDJYIPIBGFNOaWRAtBRIEGYA24HPttHSHIFWITtPONBUCNR™) is: even though it seems I didn’t like this book very much (I think), I intend to continue with this series anyway.
Maybe one is spoiled for sci-fi forever after reading Ursula K.
Shards of Honour is painfully reminiscent of Maria V.
First, the fact that this novel is, essentially, a sci-fi romance.
The romance is dressed with a lot of pseudo-sci-fi details, but, still, a marriage is proposed within 5 days of the meeting and worlds are turned upside down for love here.
Whatever.Second, it is possible that I am not very familiar with space-opera subgenre of sci-fi, but if Shards of Honour is a fair representation of it, I am never picking up anything like this again.
Le Guin's collection Four Ways to Forgiveness.
Sci-fi action adventure with predictable romance. It is deceptively light in the beginning, but makes a sharp turn midway darker and deeper into military and politics, raising uncomfortable questions about duty, honour and conscience, blurring lines between good and bad. Fast and engaging read that is surprising in a good way.Lovely writing. It appears to be simple and straightforward, easily engaging you in fast moving plot and then surprises with beautiful insights and unexpected wisdom. Certainly curious to check out other Bujold books as well as the rest of this series.Recommended for sci-fi and space opera fans.
Science fiction, adventure, military-political intrigue, romance, character development & dry humour are mixed in perfect proportions in this debut novel of the “Vorkosigan Saga” space opera.
Cordelia Naismith & her team of scientists from Beta Colony are on a mission to map hitherto unchartered territories/planets when they are attacked by Barrayaran soldiers intent on keeping them away from the place (secretly to be used in an invasion of the planet Escobar as part of the Empire’s expansion policy).
But things go terribly wrong not just for Cordelia, but for the leader of the soldiers, Count Aral Vorkosigan, as someone from his own team tries to murder him in the chaos.
3.5 for the Aral and Cordelia story, and 5 stars for the last chapter, which is a totally separate story ('Aftermaths') rounds out to 4 stars.'Shards of Honor' is the first novel in what has since become an extensive series (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vorkosi...) of which I've read a great many.
It's always odd to go back and read an early book featuring characters who were later fleshed out a great deal more.
This was a fun start to an interesting series.
The main characters were likeable and interesting (especially the gradual reveal of Vorkosigan's past) and the plot was fast-paced, filled with a series of exciting adventures.
The world-building was solid but nowhere near as ambitious, intriguing and memorable as the first book in the other sci-fi series I have experience with (Hyperion).
I'm definitely interested to see where this series goes from here, especially in how the weird publication vs.
chronological order debate will effect the series' development.Full review to come...
Check down below and feel free to comment!Having lately an interesting conversation with my GR friends on the nature of covers for Vorkosigan series I decided to update my older reviews with a little "gallery" of worst covers...
So good old space opera and a love story that isn't into sappiness and YA dramatism of "omg did he look at me?
Which I'm going to read, because I've just discovered my series of the year, I'm afraid.Of course, some things felt a bit retro sci-fi, but in a good nostalgic way.
I also enjoyed the treatment of politics, particularly when the romancing was done and the narrative moved onto the nitty gritty, the unsentimental reality of rule, the betrayal and pain.
(Lest I make this seem too grim, the authentic gestures that Aral and Cordelia use to communicate or think of their love for each other were moving.) This is when the action starts.Regarding the tech and science, I found them to be very unobtrusive.
I think the two genres certainly share her style, and I am excited to read more in the series as time goes on becuase it looks like this is kind of the intro to what will be a much larger series in the end.
At one point I thought we had reached the end of the adventure, but it turned out there was more to follow and the set up for the next book was definitely exciting so i want to buy that soon.
The first thing I liked were the older main characters, Aral and Cordelia, whose slow growing romance was decidedly mature and adult.
The side characters nicely developed and feeling very much a necessary part of the story.Second, the writing itself, which reads with a certain level of simple gracefulness.
The humanizing of soldiers and victims of war in particular was well done and heartfelt, and provided a grounding of reality mirroring issues that are relevant today.Most of all, I loved the way this worked as a complete package which felt so satisfying as a whole.
I alternated listening to this with reading, and while I'm still not in love with the narrator, he is growing on me.
I read this in line for a ticket to Dragon*con last year. Thus began the Autumn When Miles Vorkosigan Ate My Brain.
Cordelia Naismith, Betan captain of a surveying team, and Aral Vorkosigan, commander of a Barrayaran military outpost, meet in less than auspicious circumstances, deciding to join forces in order to survive.
I particularly liked how the portrayal of the societies showed that neither is totally ‘good’ or ‘bad’, but mixtures of the two.Considering this was written in 1986, the narrative couldn’t help have an old-fashioned feel to it, but the author does also add some very contemporary aspects, especially in Cordelia, which permeates the narration.
What do I feel about it?
I guess I would have liked it a lot more.
Lepa i zabavna SF prica i fin pocetak za odlicnu seriju sa puno mogucnost ali malo mi fali "velicine" u ovome, space opera feel ili nesto malo vise u stilu Honnor Harington. S druge strane iako dosta jednostavna, prica dotice dosta ozbiljne teme iu na momenat ume da bude mracna sto priznajem nisam ocekivao.Glavni likovi su zabavni za citanje ali su nekako suvise ispravni u svojim postupcima. Nije da mi smeta ali malo odskace od ostatka likova (dobrih ili losih). Ali dovoljno su dopadljivi da cu rado nastaviti sa serijalom.
Even though you might not have read a single book in the Vorkosigan saga, chances are you are well aware of its existence.
Now, if you have been reading some of the books already, you’ll know that the series really revolves around Miles Vorkosigan-Naismith (their son), who is a much more interesting character than either of his parents.
So, read this book, it’s fairly entertaining (if a bit schmaltzy on occasion; it is after all a bit of a love story), but bear in mind it only gets better from here.Random information: It’s interesting to note that this literary universe, while clearly qualifying as Space Opera, does not contain sentient Aliens (as far as I know), but rather focuses on the conflict between two human societies (from different planets).
I read this for the first time sometime during the 1990s as a follow-up after reading much later books in the series (Memory and onwards).Commander Cordelia Naismith of the Beta Colonial Astronomical Survey is in a lot of trouble when soldiers from Barrayar attack her survey mission and kill one of her people.
But even after doing so the two are drawn together even though their worlds are at war.This is a much younger and less sure of herself Cordelia than we get in later books, but she's still terrific.
I liked this more than some books I’ve read that I rated four stars, but it had some pretty significant pacing and world-building issues that were really jarring, and I just couldn’t ignore them.
The lovers from opposite sides is one of my very favorite tropes, and it’s done very well here, particularly for the way it illuminates the two cultures as Aral Vorkosigan (the supposed Butcher of Komarr) and Captain Cordelia Naismith (a scientist from a more progressive, less brutal culture) come to actually know one another.I think a lot of my basic issues with the book could probably be boiled down to two things: this was the author’s first published novel, and it was published in the 1980s.
Shards of Honor, the first of the  Vorkosigan Saga, could not be better, it’s a road trip through a deserted alien planet, it’s a space opera and a love story.
Lord Aral Vorkosigan is the commander of a secret military mission from the warlike planet Barrayar.
A slow simmering love starts between the two, but it stays on the background and the plot moves on.
It’s a captivating book, hard to set aside.I loved Cornelia and Aral.
Bujold’s dialogues are witty and captivating.Read Shards of Honor if you enjoy the this kind of work, but mostly if you appreciate high quality fiction.
Lois McMaster Bujold's is one of most appreciated fantasy and Sci-fi writers and her Vorkosigan saga is praised in places where I look for book recommendations.
Their relationship didn't feel natural in the beginning, but with time I came to appreciate lack of exaltation.The writing is absorbing, even though the story is quite simple.
There were some parts that can probably be described as lazy writing (famous sexual assault scene that serves to show how bad the villain is or Cordelia's change of heart), but they didn't make me hate the book.Overall, it's a decent novel with sparks of brilliance seen in Bujold's later works.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. This is the first book in the phenomenal Vorkosigan Saga and concerns the first meeting and ensuing relationship of Miles' parents, Aral Vorkosigan and Cordelia Naismith. I thought this was one of the more important installments in so far as it explores the mutual respect and love between Aral and Cordelia and provides some background on the extraordinary people so critical to the life of Miles Vorkosigan. Highly recommended for all fans of the Miles books.
Military-SF and romance are strange bedfellows, but Bujold writes so naturally that it works, and lays the background for how Miles' parents met and fell in love amidst military intrigue, space battles, and even a close call with a sadistic Barrayaran commander.
