https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1951125.The_Lace_Reader
Except there's very little actual lace reading that goes on in the book.
The heroine has been estranged from her relatives, living on the opposite coast, until her great aunt falls ill.
The author gets you to invest a whole lot of energy and belief in the story which seems to be wrapping up nicely, and then at the end, you discover that almost everything you were led to believe was a lie, and there's not enough story left to allow the reader to adjust to the new reality, which is apparently the real reality...and the whole book is painful and disturbing and dissatisfying.
There were a lot of good ideas, but so many of them were totally unnecessary and others weren't fully fleshed-out.
The author should have saved some of those ideas for other stories and developed them further (and maybe she will).
As the book went on, the author seemed to gain more control of her writing and her story, but by then, it was too late.
Interesting ideas, dark and damaged characters (an understatement!), but lots of problems with the plotting and the writing drag the book down.
With some assistance, though, the author could produce some interesting work.
Although the book warns the reader from literally the very beginning that we'll be seeing things through the eyes of someone who lies and doesn't remember the truth clearly, still...the lack of a cohesive clear familial structure and Towner's frequent sick spells and confusion are dizzyingly distracting from the plot.
The resulting feeling is like reading a vortex...it can make you sick after a while.I've read other reviews that liken the big "twist" at the end of the book to The Sixth Sense.
What really happened to Towner...did she stay at the island year-round, or go away with her "sister"?
A moment flutters by that briefly captures your imagination, but mainly things are just droning along.
Droning, that is, until the last moment when the teacher starts ranting and throwing things.
This book has one of those crazy twist endings that just doesn't make sense, and you suspect that you missed something since you were, after all, practically asleep.
It's just a bad ending to a relatively dull book.
I suspect that the opening line of this book, where the main character warns us that she is a liar, was added after it was finished as an excuse for the flimsy and unconvincing ending.
That vague but relentless guilt that settles in when you have figured out exactly where this story is going and where it will wind up, but you started the book, so you really ought to finish it?
It was Towner’s voice, pure and simple, that kept me reading, waiting to hear what she would out with next.
Personally, as someone who is always looking an engrossing story, intriguing characters, and an author I can travel along with over time, the bottom line is “Would I read her next book?”I’ll be waiting.
A quick rundown of the things that happened include the mysterious death of Eva Whitney, suicide, the disappearance of a young woman, mental illness, sexual abuse, rape, witchcraft, fortune-telling, eccentric women and a Christian cult, all set in the backdrop of modern day Salem, MA.
However, she flat out tells you on the first page of the story that she doesn’t tell the truth, that there are “holes” from the past where she admittedly does not remember what happened and that she has been hospitalized for mental illness.
He also falls in love with Towner and when that happened, I was like, “oh Rly?
The story is filled with a cast of eccentric characters from Towner's mother May who refuses to step a foot off the island she lives on, to her uncle Calvin who has been saved and has started his own religious cult at a local campground, to a collection of witches who seem to have gravitated to Salem because of it's historical past.The writing in this story is excellent and there were many features that made this book appeal to me.
I liked this book at first because of the visual setting of Salem and Marblehead, the unusual dysfunctional family, and the mystery of the aunt's death. As the story progresses it just gets tangled in its own web or lace as it were, a story in search of a flashy ending which is provided but somehow unsatisfying.
Just found this while rummaging through my Goodreads shelves and realized I have to change the rating. Many books later, I now realize this can't possibly be more than two stars. The most cliche-ridden and sad little book ever. Whiny and ditzy main character. Eye rolling romance. Almost no "lace reading magic". Just... NO.
This was such an unexpected gem amongst my tbr pile and I’m so glad I finally picked it up and read it.
As soon as I read the back of the book and the narrator pretty much told us she was an unreliable narrator, I was hooked!
I loved everything about this story, from the setting to the plot to the characters and everything in between.
Especially the whole concept of Lace Readers, I fell instantly in love with it!
And I knew since we had an unreliable narrator that there would be some pretty big crazy reveal somewhere but I still didn’t see it coming and it left me reeling!
In the end, it feels as though the only reason for the chapters in Towner's pov were solely to give us the effect of confusion at the end, which I assume is supposed to force us to go back and read the book all over again, with this new information now in mind.
I found myself wanting to read more of the guide, and being disappointed when the snippet ended and I was back in, because of the jumping points of view, often felt like a mixture of journal entries and short stories as opposed to one large novel.I give it three stars for effort and for creativity, really.
Mystery, cool psychic powers which involve reading fortune through a piece of lace, New England setting (Salem, MA even)… despite all of this, this novel was a chore.
The Lace Reader begins with Towner (or possibly Sophya, pronounced “sof-eye-ya” And tell me, which name is more pretentious?) traveling home to Salem, MA for the first time in years.
In addition to these plots (and so many more which are woven together…like a fine piece of lace *barf*) the book contains multiple rambling passages involving the history of Salem, the history of Towner (Sophya) and so many other people in this book.
I think if I believed more that Towner didn't get that ending that I would have been surprised right along with her, but I think, looking back, that sometimes she understood the truth, at least part of it, and didn't explain it to the reader.-And most of the book, I couldn't figure out what the story was about, if it was a mystery or a story about redemption or a love story or just a story about the love of New England (Barry goes a little overboard sometimes in her descriptions of Salem).
When I first saw this book cover, I had a mental Will Smith moment: “Awwww, hell no!” I thought it was the same as those novels centered around knitting or quilting but that lace was the new vehicle.
It’s not some piece of literature that’s going to have a profound effect on your life once you’ve finished reading it, but it is the kind of story that draws you in & gives you something to look forward to during those moments of anticipation between chapters.
This spellbinding story is primarily told by Towner Whitney,Brunonia Barry's self-confessed unreliable narrator: “My name is Towner Whitney.
No, that’s not exactly true.
I lie all the time.” However, the first-person point of view shifts to a third-person adding to the mysterious narrative.Set in Salem, Massachusetts, the novel interlaces historic references with modern allusions that waver between somber and glib, creating an evocative, unpredictable atmosphere.
Witches, Puritans, Ipswitch lace, and the dark waters of Salem harbor all play a part in creating a unique setting for the story.The writing pulsates with secrecy—laced with hints, half-truths, and haunting details.
The story begins with the central character, Towner Whitney, admitting she's a liar with memory loss issues - so you really don't know what to believe (and after a while you don't much care).
Eventually (after plodding through 150 pages of mostly nothing) a mystery plot is introduced.
It's structured in an awkward manner - keeps jumping back and forth leading the reader down blind alleys with lots of scenes going nowhere and serving no purpose to the storyline.
There were so many characters populating this novel each introduced and talked about as if you knew all about them.
The Lace Readers has the worst ending ever leaving too many unexplained loose ends!
I really liked this book. I liked the combination of mystery, suspense, romance, family, psychology. It really grabbed my attention at the beginning and kept it all the way through. There were surprises I didn't see coming and now I want to go back and read it again with that perspective! It is provacative and challenging in many respects, so be prepared for that. It isn't an easy, entertaining read--but one that makes you think, hypothesize, and wonder. I enjoyed it a lot.
Amazing plot idea and I loved the atmosphere of Salem , it made me feel like visiting it .www.theleisurediaries.com
The story takes place in Salem, MA, and centers around an old family of women who are 'lace readers'--able to see the future in pieces of Ipswich lace.
The main character, Towner Whitney, is summoned back to Salem from her life in California when the body of her Great Aunt Eva is found in the ocean.
Returning home sets in motion again all the dysfunctional family dynamics that drove Towner away fifteen years earlier.
There is a huge twist to the ending that may make the reader want to reread the book with this new information in mind.
It was a pretty good story with lots of plot twists and an interesting theme exploring truth and reality, but the "surprise ending" is dumped on you like a ton of bricks, and besides, I had already figured it out.
Seems like I read a similar plot line in another book.
Also, as an editor, I can't help but find mistakes and typos in books, and I found tons of them!
including an ENTIRE paragraph that was duplicated in an earlier chapter, and I'm pretty darn sure it wasn't supposed to be there.
But that's just my nitpickiness as an editor...you'll probably like this book.
I will say this is an interesting concept with a plot twist that left me bewildered at the end.
It gets a three star rating for the ending.
To clarify- it is not because I disliked the ending.
The lower rating is simply due to the fact that such a climactic turn of events should seemingly be explored a bit deeper.
The acceptance of it all without too much fanfare was just too unbelievable to allow.
I see there is a sequel and I will probably read it because I did like the characters.
I loved the New England setting and descriptions of Salem.
My boss forced me to read this, and I'm really glad she did. A fabulously unreliable narrator leads to a lovely twist at the end. And Barry's descriptions of Salem, Mass., are so spot-on that anyone who has ever toured there even once will recognize certain landmarks.
At the end of a perfect summer day when the setting sun casts that net of skin-kissing balmy warmth over the land, if you're lucky enough to be driving down a traffic-less country backroad with all the windows open -- or just looking out the window of a city bus at that light hitting the sides of buildings at new and interesting angles, illuminating parts of them you rarely get to see -- you know how sometimes it actually feels like you're on drugs?
This book lulls you into exactly that pleasant twilit limbo somewhere between living, sleeping, and dreaming.
I'm not sure exactly how -- or why...
since I think it's sort of meant to be a commercial beach read?
-- but it could be the least offensive summery/marketed-as-women's-lit book I've ever read.
I'm always interested in the history of Salem and I wasn't familiar with lace readers so I thought this would be a intriguing read.There was a lot of talk about the characters being readers but other than the blurb at the beginning of each chapter, there was very little knowledge imparted.This was a murder mystery at heart with some history thrown in.
It was a jumbled mess and in my opinion would have benefitted from a total rewrite.
I struggled to engage with the characters so the reading dragged on and on.
Her memories of her life in Salem are sketchy and she struggles to put the pieces of her childhood together while dealing with people from the past that she is not prepared to see.Eva was in her eighties but still swam in the ocean every day.
Towner's return and Eva's death rip open the past and send everyone concerned reeling.This is a book about the damage that people do to each other and the incredible lengths that the human soul will go to in order to survive.
Each chapter starts with a little excepts from "The Lace Reader's Guide" about how to make or read lace as we follow Towner Whitney's return to Salem after a decade's absense following the suicide of her twin sister.Towner returns when her great-aunt Eva, a gifted lace reader, goes missing.
Cal and his "Calvinists" have it in for the Whitney women, and Salem's witch trials, which have drawn tourists to the town, aren't just historical fact in this book.It's a complex psychological drama that has plenty of interior and exterior action.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. You are hooked with the first few lines. It is just beautifully written. I was totally surprised by the end and that isn't something I can usually say. I normally have them figured out in advance. I love the blurbs at the beginning of each chapter from the Lace Readers Guide.Highly recommend this one
Towner Whitney doesn't remember why she left Salem all those years ago, when her name was still Sophya.
Especially Towner's great-aunt Eva, who runs a tearoom and is a renowned lace reader.
Or will his perception of reality be completely shattered, destroying himself and Towner in the process?When I read a mystery novel, I like to be engaged from the beginning until the very end.
Towner's unreliability as a narrator could've been done just as well in the past tense.
Perhaps the narration of what was happening presently was done in the present tense to distinguish it from Towner's journals written when she was 17 in the past tense.

There were a couple of things that drew me to this book -- the idea of lace reading as a way of prophecy or fortune telling of sorts, the setting of Salem and the islands nearby, a hint at mystery and supernatural things.
I guess if there had been more of the lace-reading, and less of the dysfunctional family traumas and psychoses I might have felt more drawn to it.
It has to be drunk strong and very hot, and Eva tells me it is too spicy for some of her older customers.
