https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159178.North_and_South
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/After being trolled three times yesterday for not only reading things wrong, but also for wasting my Goodreads space and apparently everyone’s time creating picturebooks full of “stupid” and “uninformative” reviews that apparently belong on a place I’ve never heard of before called Buzzfeed (which I will make sure I remain in the dark about in order to take that as an eternal compliment) please consider this a fair warning: THIS “REVIEW” IS GOING TO BE STUPID AND COMPLETELY UNINFORMATIVE AND THE ONLY PLACE IT’S WORTHY OF BEING PUBLISHED IS TUMBLR.
On the other hand, it’s also a real puppy squisher at 800+ pages and the first of a set of three (just as puppy squishy) books in a series so I could give zero poops if you ever read it or not.
Odlična knjiga o američkom građanskom ratu... Popularnosti knjige kod nas doprinela je i dobra serija snimljena po ovom romanu... Sećate se? S Patrikom Svejzijem... :)
Too much of a soap opera read for me.
I was under the impression that this was a pretty decent story that was tightly connected with the events of the Civil War as the backdrop.
What I realized pretty quickly was that the story is the main focus and the Civil War part is just there for convenience.
That's fine if the story is a compelling one or an interesting one.
Unfortunately, I was disinterested in the fates of the Hazards and Mains fairly quickly and then I was left with nothing to hang my hat on.
No, I'll never turn down a book, but I expected some poorly written, overblown mess -- something like what you'd get if VC Andrews decided to write a historical trilogy.
I put it off for nearly a year, and then finally cracked open North and South, fully prepared to be underwhelmed.Wow. I'm now on the second volume, and would like to belatedly join the John Jakes Fan Club.
But regardless, this author has enriched my reading and learning life with North and South, and I'd strongly encourage any historically impaired readers to seek out these books post-haste.
Description: Part history, part novel, this book chronicles two great American dynasties over three generations.
Though brought together in a friendship that neither jealousy nor violence could shatter, the Hazards and the Mains are torn apart by the storm of events that has divided the nation.
The mini series.01 - North and South - (summer 1842 - summer 1844)02 - North and South - (autumn 1844 - spring 1848)03 - North and South - (spring 1848 - summer 1854)04 - North and South - (summer 1854 - autumn 1856)05 - North and South - (spring 1857 - November 1860)06 - North and South - (November 6, 1860 - April 1861)
As good now as it was when I last re-read it about 20 years ago.
No wonder they made a mini series of it.Since I've seen the tv version too many times to count, reading this was like watching it all over again but it was very entertaining to see where the screenwriters deviated.
Overall, though, the book is far richer and more satisfying.I rarely re-read anything, but this is on my keeper shelf and will stay there for all time.
Letting the story grown from George and Orry’s experiences to those of their respective families, Jakes thickens both the plot and the character development in this powerful story, addressing many issues of the day in a forthright and clear manner.
A powerful opening to the trilogy, which will surely offer many more adventures and political intrigue at a time when the United States was at its most vulnerable.Jakes does not only write to entertain, but surely to teach as well, a point to which he eludes in the Afterward.
3.5*Είχα δει την τηλεοπτική σειρά με τον Patrick Swayze όταν ήμουν μικρή και είχα ενθουσιαστεί (και με τη σειρά και με τον Πάτρικ :P ) και είπα να διαβάσω και το βιβλίο.Ωραιότατη σαπουνόπερα εποχής με ενδιαφέροντα ιστορικά στοιχεία για την κατάσταση που οδήγησε στον Αμερικανικό εμφύλιο.Έχει έρωτες,έχει ίντριγκες,έχει μίση και μυστικά,όλα γενικά τα συστατικά μιας πετυχημένης σαπουνόπερας.Έχει και κάποιους χαρακτήρες τραβηγμένους απο τα μαλλιά και κάποια πράγματα που μοιάζουν να μην κολλάνε με την εποχή αλλά μου άρεσε,το βρήκα ενδιαφέρον και διασκεδαστικό.
At that price, I can buy all sorts of stuff that I'd never buy otherwise!One of the books I picked up last time was John Jakes' North and South.
I feel as if Wingrove tried to rape me, mentally, and now there's part of me that fears that each new book, each new author, will do the same.John Jakes is an older-school author, of course, so he didn't get too graphic.
I honestly do feel as if I've been abused...I'm enraged at the mere memory of Chung Kuo.At one point, the worst bad guy in North and South - a psycho - kills the wife of one of the protagonists.
Sorprende , sin embargo que en el libro todas nuestras simpatias estan con George Hazard (o tal vez no tanto, siendo este el norteño) a pesar de ser ese chico a quien todo le sale fácil y al que todos odiamos secreta o no tanto en la escuela, su familia le da todo y pasa clases sin estudiar, y asi.
ne mogu mu samo oprostiti jednu stvar...Berdanovi strijelci su se borili u DRUGOJ bici kod Bull Runa/Manassasa.
This by far was the longest book I have ever listened to on audible.
It was an entertaining story about 2 families over several generations.
I especially liked how the author wove the story together over several generations with the families intersecting in different ways.
I also like the historical aspect of the book and could feel the tension building with the mood of the time.
The book felt like part drama, part thriller, part history and part adventures.
I can't believe I hadn't read this before, but I am definitely going to continue with the series.
A 5 star read for me.
Orry Main and George Hazard meet in their first year at West Point Academy and begin a life-long friendship - although that friendship will be sorely tempted as the debate over the rights to own slaves threatens to split the country in two.
After their military service in the Mexican wars end, George returns to run the family's iron works and raise his family, while Orry returns to the Main plantation to pine over the woman forever beyond his reach, Madeline LaMott.
John Jakes creates compelling characters weaving a captivating story, bringing history alive.
He delivers exactly the book I wanted.I wanted a story to bring alive the time of the US civil war.
I discovered abolitionists and militant abolitionists; people who wanted peace, and people who wanted war.This gives me new respect for creative people with creative solutions to thorny societal problems.
I did not know that, Emerson I think it was, suggested the idea of paying the slave-owners to rid the country of slavery.
I can respect an imperfect solution now, knowing the damages of the war.Also, Mr. Jakes refrained from preaching, something so valuable while tempting in such a subject as slavery.
Review to Follow
I was thinking about Catch-22 this morning which then led me to thinking about Madame Bovary and I realized that I gave this book the same rating I gave those, four stars.
It's really a 3.5 for me but I find that I liked it too much to handle it the way I usually handle half stars, which is to round it down and put it in the 3.5 star folder.I read this when I was younger and I was disappointed in my younger self when I saw that the writing wasn't great.
First I don't believe anywhere near that amount of people were opposed to slavery for moral reasons, with perhaps a few rare exceptions ,most Yankees were opposed to slavery for economic reasons, yet in the book tariffs are shown more as a secondary cause after moral objections of slavery.
People were not the open and free minded back then, to the degree they're portrayed in this book, or things simply would have been different.
Second, people are not that political.
I'm a rather political person constantly frustrated by other's lack of care and interest in issues.
Anyway - the book?I enjoyed the read, although I'm glad that I had had a huge amount of practice reading huge fantasy series, so I could pretty much keep track of all the characters as they meandered in and out of the story line.
A lot of the characters are just caught up in events, whilst those that actively seek to make things worth either get their comeuppance or are nicely set up for something to happen in the next two books.My only real criticism is that sometimes a plot device was added and was just as quickly dismissed - for instance, the train crash seemed to come from nowhere, was over and done with in one short chapter, seemingly just to have the two sides of the Hazard family finally fall out.
I enjoyed it as well so I decided to give the first book a go.
Such a well built story against a great historical background, well written, great variety of characters and a great dealing of entertainment from history and philosophy to sex and violence.
It is an intruiging portrayel of the USA right before the civil war featuring characters of all political pursuasion.
I felt the book has a lot of things to say that could be applied to even today's political situations and it was a fun read on top of that.
A must read, in my opinion.
I'm not going to finish this, I've finally decided, and I'm sick of seeing it on my 'currently reading' list when I'm totally not. The mini-series outstrips the novel by miles--don't even bother, just go watch the mini-series.Technically, this still counts as a 'read' book to me because I had already read it a long time ago and just didn't remember what it was like. Well, it's awful, in my opinion.
In a period in which social tension is huge, due to the discussion of abolitionism of slavery work, the friendship between these two families is tested.It's an interesting book, for those who like History, since it tries to show both sides of the question, from the moderate to the radical point of view, which allows the reader to listen to the arguments, even if he doesn't agree with the ideas or actions of some characters.
Back in 1985, I was one of millions who swooned over the southern charm of Patrick Swayze's character, Orry Main, in the television adaption of John Jakes' novel North and South.
I still have a soft spot for the story, and thought it was high time I read the book.Once I started reading I was immediately immersed in the world of the Hazards and the Mains.
Orry Main is a southerner, and George Hazard, a Yankee.
I think I'm going to have to read the other two books and then watch all three television series.
Režiser nije previše odstupio od knjige, ali je bitno podvući neke stvari koje mi se nisu svidjele.
Pa, nije baš da se radi o lijevoj ili desnoj ruci, u pitanju je potpuno drugi ekstremitet!
Možda griješim, ali Orryjevog brata se nikako ne mogu sjetiti iz serije, a ni to nije zanemarivo.
Ali ne mogu da se pitam zašto Holywood nastoji sve da osakati.
"Ja mislim, Orry, da čovjek ulazi u političke vode kad je nesposoban da se bavi nekim časnim poslom." GeorgeDrugi i treći dio ne mogu da nađem na našem jeziku iako čovjek na prvu pomisli da su sve knjige tu jer su tako izreklamirane, a čitanje na engleskom će znatno usporiti posao.
:) Ali možda se odučim.
You get such a sense of the turbulence in the years leading up to the Civil War. This book and the entire trilogy is what prompted me to become a History major.
This was my second time reading the book, and I loved it even better that the first because I have more reading knowledge and appreciation.
If you're looking to learn about the unrest in this country leading up to the Civil War and to explore the causes and regional views from all angles, look no further than this book.
There are characters to both love and hate.It's a bear: 800 pages of ridiculously small font.
This is my second time around reading this wonderful novel, preceding the The Civil War, of the Mains of South Carolina and the Hazards of Pennsylvania. I enjoyed it just as much if not more than the last time.
I am a big John Jakes fan and he has written a masterful trilogy on the American Civil War. Any of John Jakes books are both educational and entertaining.
FICTION/ HISTORICAL LITERATUREPart 1 of the North and South trilogy.The North and South trilogy tells the story of two families before, during, and after the American Civil War. The two families in question, the Mains from the Southern state of South Carolina and the Hazards from the Northern State of Pennsylvania, are bound together primarily through the friendship of their second-eldest sons Orry (Main) and George (Hazard), who meet at the beginning of the book, in 1842, at the West Point Military Academy and become friends for life -or so they hope.
These men and their families you will follow from before, during, and after the Civil War. And be glad you are getting them now.
I tried not to read them until I had all three, I thought i had learned my lesson from the Kent Family Chronicles...but no!
I don't know if parents would allow it because of some of the sexual scenes but if I had a class of mature students, I would have it on the recommended reading list.Before you get started, you have to remember, West Point of today is not the West Point of the 1800s.
My girlfriend recommended this book to me, and I am appalled that her lily-white and pure hands ever held such a dirty book.
Jakes throws in a history lesson so you do not feel as guilty about a guilty pleasure.
No one would ever accuse Jakes of writing literature, but this novel accomplishes its purpose.
His primary goal is light entertainment surrounded by historical events.
So as with all reasonably done historical fiction, you may learn something without realizing it.
Wow, this one surprised me - I've had this book on my TBR list for years, and finally picked it up, not thinking I would like it as much as I did.
I particularly liked the West Point stories, as I had never thought of the men trained there together that would eventually have to serve as officers on opposing sides.
I’m really looking forward to the next two books.
