https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15456.Robot_Adept
I found the entire Apprentice Adept series in a used book store a while back, and since I only read 1-3 as a kid, I was super-pumped to get my hands on some craptacular fantasy/sci-fi (Piers Anthony is the MASTER of this particular subsection of the genre).Wow. WOW.
Somehow I'd forgotten the beastiality overtones in the series (which he heavily implies and goes so far as to have other characters talking about the potential for it), along with the standard Anthony racism, sexism, and horrifying compulsion to make fascist dictator states seem cool.
Someone should have told Anthony that this series needed to end. An excellent idea, which ran to its natural conclusion at the end of the original trilogy. The follow-on books started with some potential, but the steam has run out of them. Book five,  Robot Adept , has reached that tipping point. And the repetition has (started to) set in.The underlying theme is the same: Mach has found himself in Phaze, in Bane's body, and Bane, in turn, has found himself in Proton in Mach's body. Rather than t
Yes at one point, Anthony's adolescent preoccupation with sex means that two characters with shape-changing abilities have to have sex in all three of their forms (at least he doesn't take the next step and write actual bestiality).Again, the game of Proton is a fixed method for every story resolution – this time a game has to occur half in Proton and half in Phaze (for no reason that's every adequately explained).
And finally, as if the repetition of themes and devices wasn't enough, each time the story switches point-of-view character Anthony feels the need to recap the chapter that we've just read from the new character's point of view.
Got into this one a little better once I got used to the new characters.
Another sexual sci-fi adventure14 May 2012 This looks like it is the fifth book in the series, so I guess I am looking at it before the forth book, which isn't a bad thing because as soon as the reviews are done and posted it will not really look all that out of place (with the exception of this little introduction). I did enjoy the first three books, but I really cannot remember reading these books (though I suspect I did). I really did warm to Stile and Sheen (who was a feminine robot that one
Another sexual sci-fi adventure14 May 2012	This looks like it is the fifth book in the series, so I guess I am looking at it before the forth book, which isn't a bad thing because as soon as the reviews are done and posted it will not really look all that out of place (with the exception of this little introduction).
The sexual revolution was all about freeing ourselves of the tyranny of society, and more so freeing women from the tyranny of marriage.
His male characters are so sexually appealing to women that the women fall over themselves to have sex with them.
Because there is no physical link between the frames of Phaze and Proton anymore, Anthony resorts to a mental connection between the offspring of the main characters of the previous three books.
Pretty standard cookie-cutter plot with only a few small twists and turns to keep things interesting.The biggest drawback that I could see is that the story is told from the viewpoint of each of the 4 main characters in turn, but has entirely too much repetition and review to keep my interest.
I'm desperately trying to make it through this series, but Piers Anthony is not making it easy. For the most part this is rehashing some of the same stuff from previous books just with the sons of the main characters from the first few books. Even more irritating are the dual world discrepancies similar to the third novel. Suddenly people on both worlds knows everybody's business (rushed writing to push through to more action).
Now Bane is back in his own body, in his own Frame, and his love is with him, but there are lots of problems with her being there, mainly in that she can no longer be sent off planet to keep her safe because Fleta is now in her body!The bad guys and the good guys end up coming to an agreement.
If Bane wins both he and Mach will be free of the bad guys--but they will lose their romances.
If Mach wins then Bane will join him in the enemy camp and will help the bad guys to overthrown Blue which could mean destruction of their planet--but they get to keep their ladies.
I stupidly bought several books in this series all at once because until now Piers Anthony has been a reliable author.
This book does not tell a complete story to force the reader into buying the next book in the series.
Stupid beyond belief.There are other failings, like why the good guys would agree to the competition since there is no reason to believe the bad guys will keep their word if they lose, but do you really need more?
In fact this book is so bad that it shades my opinion of other Piers Anthony books I used to like.
Great book! I am looking forward to the next one.
Hard to finish.
Book five, so you gotta read the others first to enjoy or even understand. But this pushes the story right along, and I am off to read the next one.
As I read these books I have to wonder, did Anthony ever lose track of his characters?
In this chapter of the Apprentice Adept series, Mach and Bane have discovered that their switching places is endangering both the frames of Phaze and Proton.
Now there are four characters crossing the curtain and all have very important roles to play.
I would be re-reading every page to make sure I was writing the correct person's story.
Fleta enters the game as Agape in a magnificent ploy to help the Alien get to safety, out of reach of the Contrary Citizens.
They have also fallen in love with females, Fleta the Unicorn of Phaze (with Mach) and Agape, the amoeba from the planet Moeba (with Bane) and are both also in danger of being used to force the two to cooperate.
The constant back-and-forth, in addition to the confusion of trying to remember which consciousness inhabits which body in which world, makes for a somewhat confusing, but also very repetitive read.
However, ado is what makes a book, and so it goes on.
(Vague Spoiler Alert!) I was also quite disappointed with the ending, and am apprehensive about what will ensue in the next book.
Robot Adept lacks what little charm Out of Phaze has, but it's not nearly as offensive as Unicorn Point.
There's only one attempted rape, and it's foiled in a rather satisfying way (raping an amoeba Does Not Work when she can easily reform her abdomen into a fully functional vise.) The book ends with yet another plot-determining set of contests - this mechanism is a little creaky at this point, but it's entertaining enough to read.
Weren't up for any reseach, were you, buddy?)Definitely the point at which the series begins to decline, but not all that objectionable in itself.
Can I burn my eyes out, please?
Well then you force me to explain why they need burned out.
In this book you have to read the same scene from 2 different people each time.
It's not even a short little thing, we have to reread the same scene just from the other persons POV.
Also I didn't need to read about Agape learning to use the restroom!
And as other reviews have said Oh the sex, every time you turned around some was having sex or faking having sex!
I would have loved more story line, but no we need to read about using the bathroom and having sex!
In this book, Mach and Bane are still travelling between the parallel worlds, working for the Adverse Adepts and Contrary Citizans rather than their own parents. Neither likes the situation, but with each loving a woman from the opposite frame, they are forced to do as they would rather not. I quite enjoyed reading this, but felt the series as a whole had rather stalled a bit. The story itself only progresses so far and once again, the Proton Game is used to decide the fate of the world. So, a bit repetitive after reading the other books.
I strongly encourage this be read as the entire series. The last books go in a very different direction than the first few.At first, this seems a rather typical fantasy type book. Toward the end, well, the comparison to our own world is inevitable and powerful. Why can't we all just get along?I'm giving the series a rating of 4. Some of the books in the series are better than others. As a whole, I think it's worthy of a 4.
Ta czesc jest znCznie slabsza niz poprzednie. Czyta sie dosc ciezko i mocno brakuje oryginalnego watku polaczonych 2 swiatow. Generalnie można przeczytać -szczególnie jeśli jest się ciekawym jak to się skończyło- ale wątpię aby ktokolwiek wracał do tej książki.
From my youth... it was good at the time, but not sure I'd really be feeling these stories nowadays.
Contrived and a little dull. Not as good as the earlier books in the series.
Unfortunately I don't remember much about these except that I did read them. Maybe I'll give them a try again someday.
Piers does a great job continuing the story with the various factions on the planets.
very good book
I liked how this one ended, and I'm interested to see what happens in the next book to align the two worlds.
Young adult 10-15
Uuugh! I can't read any more of these. This series is awful. Couldn't finish this book and not planning to read anymore in the series.
One of the stranger books in this series.
I can't decide if I liked the book or not. The narrator wasn't half bad but the book was a bit much on the over description and game stuff
Wonderfully imaginative and inventive; the 'game' is wonderful. Unique and reliable. Even the old-world prose rolls off the mind after a while.
