https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32905343-meddling-kids
these characters all have different names and attributes, including those of race and breed - scooby is a weimaraner named tim and velma-andy is an unambiguously lesbian latina.in this version of the scoobyverse, once upon a time, there were four teenagers: kerri and her cousin nate, peter, andrea andy, and kerri’s dog sean, who met every summer in the small mining town of blyton hills, oregon, where they were collectively known as the blyton summer detective club and became notorious, if not popular, for solving many cartoonish crimes perpetrated by bumbling masked men teen-thwarted in many cartoonishly-named ways like the “reverse werewolf trap,” involving fishing nets and serving carts and the like.
I've decided to put this one down for now; not giving it any stars and I'm not trying to persuade anyone not to read it. I simply think it's not for me and I'm struggling with a few of the characters. Time to move on to the next!
Scooby-Doo meets the Cthulhu Mythos!  TRACKING THE TEEN DETECTIVES GENRE The teen detectives’ genre has been quite popular, and we can remember pioneers, in the 1930s, in the field like The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew, and the genre exploded at the 1970s with the masses when Hanna-Barbera introduced Scooby-Doo franchise resulted so successful that it’s still active, featuring products in almost imaginable format: traditional animation, live-action, muppets-like, LEGO CGI-animation; on TV series a

PLEASE VOTE - BEST HORROR 2017!!! What appears to be an action packed somewhat silly story about a grown up Scooby Gang is actually an intelligent piece of satire filled with brilliance and acute observations about coming of age and facing your fears and reality.At just over 330 pages there is not a wasted word nor a wasted sentence. It is drum-tight and relentlessly smart and, though it does have cartoonish moments, it's deeply felt and incredibly moving.This genre defying tale is part horror,
What appears to be an action packed somewhat silly story about a grown up Scooby Gang is actually an intelligent piece of satire filled with brilliance and acute observations about coming of age and facing your fears and reality.At just over 330 pages there is not a wasted word nor a wasted sentence.
It is drum-tight and relentlessly smart and, though it does have cartoonish moments, it's deeply felt and incredibly moving.This genre defying tale is part horror, part science fiction, part mystery and much more.
2.5/5Very rarely do I rate books I don't finish, but in this case, having read 61%, I feel as if I've read enough to merit an opinion.
My opinion is this book isn't for me.
I found myself making excuses or reading short stories to avoid going back to this book.I see a lot of reviews mentioning the author's inventions of certain words and while I found some of them to be fun, after a while it got too cute.
Some were so long my mind wandered more than once trying to read them.
Reading for fun shouldn't be this much work.
Put on your pajamas, grab a bowl of Apple Jacks (my mom wouldn't let me have Lucky Charms, my first choice in ridiculous sugars disguised as breakfast cereals, With 8 Added Vitamins and Minerals!), and settle in for a delightful romp through The Case of The Really Deep Lake.Homages can wildly miss the mark, turning into tiresome parody after a few minutes (reference: most Saturday Night Life skits), but Cantero has done something marvelous, re-imagining the Scooby-Doo gang* as real, somewhat complicated people scarred by their youthful adventures.** Well, Scooby-Doo (©, I'm sure) is never explicitly mentioned.
Meddling Kids got me through my commute, some chores around the house, and kept my need to read fed.3.5 starsMeddling Kids is a fun and nostalgic mystery romp a la Scooby Doo. Much of the humor is tongue in cheek and will remind you of all the things you used to love about the cartoon.
I am not sure if this was a way for the author make you realize that this is not your usual episode of Scooby Doo. A couple of times the story needed to slow down and take a breath - I felt like I was going to get bucked off!
Then you know you will never wake up in time, you will not make it to the end of this paragraph alive."- ""What?" The italics just flew out past the alcohol's guard.”2) Neologisms:- "The new hill two blocks from there howlretched, for lack of a real word."3) Jarring POV shifts, often in the middle of paragraphs.4) Jarring format shifts, from novel to screenplay (including stage directions) and back, often in the middle of paragraphs:- "On the left, standing, Andrea "Andy" Rodriguez, 25, in big military boots and a white tank top turns to camera as she lifts a squirming old man two inches off the floor"5) Ridiculous (and ridiculously hilarious) metaphors and similes:- “Tim curled up in a corner of the backseat, sheltering his penguin from the storm, all tensed up in “scandalized Maggie Smith” pose.” - “The night was cold but gentle like an X-rated metaphor.”6) Self-aware, self-deprecating humor on the author's part:- "This thing, Thtaggoa, and the lake creatures; they exist.
The author dips in and out of a screenplay format which was so jarring to the flow of the story I cannot believe it will make it past an editor that way.There are literally stage directions in the middle of the narrative.
But really, everything else about this book clouded my judgment and eventually ruined the story for me as well.I'm afraid the only thing keeping this book from a one star review was that there were a few creepy moments and this was a clever story-it's just a shame the author didn't see fit to write a novel straight and chose to dazzle us with his cleverness.
The problem is, Peter's been dead for years.The time has come to uncover the source of their nightmares and return to where it all began in 1977.
😩 The writing style of this book was fine but other than that I feel that the plot was very poorly executed for the potential that it had in being a Scooby-Doo rip off.
I just felt like I never got to the point of the darn book.The cover is beautiful but unfortunately in my case was very misleading as I did not enjoy the book as much as I thought that I would have.
Perhaps I had too high of hopes for this book.
Book Blog | BookstagramOpening Jinky-Twist: Even the unmasked bad guys get parole, too.Main Meddling Characters: We couldn’t have come up with anyone less annoying?Plot Zoinx-y-ness: A dogshit-sized amount of non-stop actionHere’s a fun fact about me: one of my go-to stress relieving past times is getting high as a motherfucking kite and watching Scooby Doo.I have always had an affinity for mystery-solving kids because I myself wanted to be a mystery-solving kid.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “For fans of John Dies at the End and Welcome to Night Vale”  I’ve never experienced Welcome to Night Vale (its fanbase has been pretty hardcore when it comes to deterring readers who aren’t podcast listeners), but when it comes to John Dies at the End????? Seriously folks, this is the one time where there was a 100% spot-on comparison and it’s pretty much the only reason Meddling Kids even pinged my radar.Thirteen years ago, Peter Ma
She was joyfully drowning in Kerri’s hair, its fragrance and softness pounding on her senses like a cheerful Mongol army banging on the gates of Baghdad.
“Looks like the place of an old lady who never got married.” “That’s Puritan for ‘witch,’ ” Nate said, and he knocked again.
Get a foothold!” KERRI: Tim, don’t fall!
as well as all of the mentioning of Kerri’s hair having a personality of its own and the fact that it should have probably been more like a novella size because it seemed to drag on and on.
And you know what the result of that is .
So much more happened than was ever reported and has left them messed up: Peter becomes a Hollywood movie star but commits suicide at the height of his popularity, Nate commits himself to a mental institution, Kerri earns a biology degree but works as a waitress and Andy just broke out of jail.When Wickley is released from prison after thirteen years, Andy confronts him and tries to force him to tell what was really going on that summer at the old Deboen mansion but Wickley claims he knows nothing about the eerie occurrences.Andy then goes to Kerri to convince her that the group of young detectives needs to return to Blyton Hills to pick up the strings of their old investigation--to face their fears and uncover the complete truth.
as i crossed the 65% threshold or so i tried to read this with a critical eye.
i tried to come up with some justification to rate it closer to 4 stars than 5.
i loved this title so much, it was such an easy and fun read.
which isnt to say it was fluff, because it wasnt.
i finally and reluctantly decided to subtract part of a star because some of the plot twists were a little telegraphed but i think even those were intentional.
overall to be true to myself and enjoyment of reading this one i have to give it 4.75 stars.
Mini review:Trigger warning: Death.
That's all that I can remember.
If any more please mention in the comments.I heard about this book through booktube.
I am a huge Scooby-Doo fan.
And it sounded right up my alley.
Unfortunately I didn't like it.Right off the bat the writing style was bad.
And it didn't get any better.
I feel that she was the wrong person to follow throughout the book.Nate was alright and the other girl whose name I've forgotten was forgettable.
I did like the ending so that Nate could get closure.
You're better off watching Scooby-Doo.
Meddling Kids was incredibly self-aware about this issue (more on this later), but all the reference bombardment did take away from my enjoyment of the book.Another problem was the occasional shifting of writing style.
For example, (view spoiler)[when the Club was told the symptoms of being possessed are mental illness, feeling lost and unhappy and like you're going nowhere, etc., or when Tim the dog was super well behaved for an animal (plus, it's mentioned in the beginning that he's still young/ not that well trained) Both of these instances were quickly redeemed towards the end, when Dunia admitted to having trolled them with the "symptoms" ("I only described every 25 year old ever, you idiots!!"), and the spirit of the shaman being in Tim (trust me, it makes sense in context) (hide spoiler)] These bits made me extremely happy, I loved that the book took my expectations and completely debunked them (for lack of better phrase).
Whoa! This was intensely fun and entertaining! Probably the coolest book I've read this year. Fans of H.P.Lovecraft and Scooby Doo will devour this. Think Meddling Kids only much darker and more twisted, with a truly gripping, edge-of-your-seat storyline. 5 shining stars from me!
The prologue was so much fun, and it promised a Scooby Dooby great time!The unfortunate thing about having a prologue is the excitement usually drops once the story gets underway, and the reader is left waiting for a promise to be fulfilled.
There is no way I could have been invested enough in the story to not have been pulled back out due to the writing style, not to mention all of the made up words like "triviaed" and "tragichuckled".Meddling Kids is being marketed for fans of Scooby Doo, but it definitely wasn't for me.
Sadly, the cover and the premise are the best parts of the book.A number of my friends received ARCs of this before it was released, and the general consensus was pretty much the same.
I bought it anyway because I wanted to give it a fair chance and decide for myself.I honestly don't remember the writing being all over the place in The Supernatural Enhancements.
In Meddling Kids, the writing gets in the way of what could have been a pretty good story.
If you have read any other reviews for this book, you already know that not only does Cantero invent needless words, but he also inexplicably switches the narrative between a novel and a screenplay.
This was so bad - TW for transphobia, plus really uncomfortable representation of a lesbian character. The writing was all over the place too.
This review and others can be found on BW Book Reviews.1/5 - DNF at 90%So, I love Scooby Doo. When I was a kid, it was probably my favorite thing to watch.
I love the whole leaving and coming back to finish things trope, however, there was one issue that actually turned me off so much with the reveal of who the bad guy was that I stopped listening to the book.What's that issue?
Then, the person told Andy how easy it is to transition.
Being someone who's transitioning I know it's not easy.
I was so wanting to love this book but it just wasn’t for me. I do think a lot of people would love it. My full review will be up on my booktube channel at http://YouTube.com/Peterlikesbooks
I need more i need a squeal please ok i'm changing my rating because i just wantched a review of thi
Your enjoyment of this book will depend to an extent on whether you find that kind of thing "brilliant" or at least "fun," or whether you find it to be "pretentious twaddle." (I kept swinging back and forth on my feelings about it.) I enjoyed this book all right: it's funny at times, clever at times, and surprising at times.
And I prefer a story where I feel more connected to the characters.
Some other reviewers have objected to the teasy fake girl-on-girl action that keeps getting thrown in between two characters, and that didn't sit well with me, either.
Here, go read Morgannah’s review, because she's who got me all excited about this book.
It might have been, but it contains some really troubling language that was both unnecessary and extrememly disappointing.For example: Pretty early on, as we're getting introduced to all the main players in the story, we're taken to an asylum.
The opening scene there is one of the main trouble spots.
But in two different instances, the character is referred to as "the hermaphrodite." At first, the term took me aback, because we have much better language to talk about trans/intersex life these days.
But then when I went back to reread it, it's not just the term hermaphrodite that is troubling.
SIX SEASONS AND A MOVIE
Meddling kids in it’s focus on four teenaged kids and their dog solving mysteries is an obvious throwback to Enid Blyton’s Famous Five (the crew refers to themselves as the Blyton Summer Detective Club) and Scooby Doo (as they solve crimes in the Zoinx River Vally of Oregon) It’s been 13 years since they unmasked the Sleepy Lake Monster, revealed as old man Wickley who would have gotten away with it too, if it wasn’t for those meddling kids!
It’s Scooby-Doo meets H.P. Lovecraft and it’s just as dark.
Cantero ratchets up the horror elements while keeping you guessing throughout.
The premise for the story is good, but the writing was lackluster and never grabbed me. It was odd and waffled in style and delivery. I could never get lost in the story or feel a connection with the characters because I was frequently frustrated with the writing and would stop reading.
Scooby Doo meets H.P. Lovecraft?
Who wouldn't want to dig in with a book being marketed this way?
I want to love it.
And going in with Scooby Doo being the main factor, it was easy to see how this was more humor and nostalgia than anything else.
However, what didn't work for me was the writing style.
and then back to novel style...
sometimes dispersed sporadically throughout a section written like a (dare I say) "normal" book.
Ultimately the story line was fine - I can totally appreciate what the author was trying to do and found my love (again) for the Scooby Gang, er...
In fact, I have a lot more thoughts about this book than I do about the actual Scooby-Doo TV show.
But the thing is: this book is promising dragons and delivering geckos.
(I feel I should stop to say that while I adore Scooby-Doo and have fond memories, I'm not a purist, and was not reading this to police his accurate portrayals.) This book takes place in the Zoinks River Valley.
Now, I understand that Scooby-Doo is a licensed property, and Cantero does not have permission to write a grown up horror novel about the actual Mystery Club.
