https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24763621-wintersong
“You are the monster I claim.”   Dark and poetic.Frightening. Seductive. Beautiful.I claim this beautiful tale, I claim the sorrow, the dreams, the wildness, the magic, the darkness and the pain that consumed me.I loved it.  “Once there was a little girl who played her music for a little boy in the wood.”   But the girl grew up, and forgot about the boy. She continued her life as if he never existed, she kept her family together, composed her music in the dark and wished, for attention, for de
“Once there was a little girl who played her music for a little boy in the wood.” 
She continued her life as if he never existed, she kept her family together, composed her music in the dark and wished, for attention, for desire, for greatness.
Liesl's story was indeed a Wintersong.
It tears down the barriers of reason, until you are lost in a tempest of images and illusions, sinful thoughts and deeds, shadows and light.You read it with your soul.
Liesl's story was sheer magic.
Devious goblins, a Lord of Mischief, a kingdom underground, a set of laws that demanded the greatest sacrifices.
WINTERSONG is a maze of beauty and darkness, of music and magic and glittering things, all tied together with exquisite writing. This is a world you will want to stay lost in. I had the honor of hearing about this wonderful story in its earliest stages, and I'm so thrilled and excited that S. Jae-Jones' work will soon be out for you all to obsess over. Don't you dare skip this.
We end up so deep in Leisl's issues/emotions and I think if you aren't right there with her emotionally, you'll find this book a bit boring-especially the last half.
The writing is so rich and full and it honestly reads more like an adult novel, in my opinion (which I loved.) It didn't feel YA to me in the least.
(Not to mention there is adult content.)I also think this could have been split into two books as the first half and second half differ from each other a great deal.
this book was.... [crowd leans in] meh [crowd immediately starts booing]\_(ツ)_/ in millions of years, archaeologists will dig up my crystallized body that has been perfectly preserved by the bog of disappointment that I drowned in after reading this book and put me in a museum with a placard ‘wintersong did this.’look, I've already mentally five starred this book because 99% of my friends loved it and honestly what the fuck is a certified emotion and it's the biggest mood right now. I genuinely
I know we’re supposed to believe that Liesl and the goblin king are so in love with each other and all that magnetism, but they don’t even have fun together??
It’s a dark but romantic and magical fantasy poem—I mean novel.
Somewhere with real magic?’’Whenever I will feel uninspired or uninspiring, I will read a chapter of this book.The story is very interesting, especially because there aren’t many like this one (that I know of).
And, I don’t know about you, but I find love-hate relationships kind of really sexy, especially when there’s a touch of mystery and darkness to the romance.Though, do not expect adventure, action, a large series of events or even elemental magic.
If, however, you love lyrical writing and character-driven stories with an emphasis on romance and a dark atmosphere, this may just be your fantasy win of 2017.
I’m grateful that there is some YA literature floating around that pushes the fact that beauty is not the end all and other qualities and talents are far more valuable than the fleeting looks of youth and good health instead of consistently filling the next generation’s brains with the nonsense that beauty is the most highly valued trait a person can attain.-Without getting into spoiler territory, I’m really grateful this book didn’t have a cookie cutter ending.
While this didn’t quite meet my original expectations, I can easily see the desire for a novel like this and applaud the author for writing a story that didn’t revolve around a beautiful young woman and praise only this aspect of her while forcing a love triangle with every male in the book falling at her feet in love with her.
In order to enjoy the second half of this book, you need to really like Liesl's character because it's all about her.
(hide spoiler)]Their relationship was so beautiful and y'all I cried more than I've ever cried in my life while reading this book, like goodbye and goodnight.
Like, if you ever want to visit me, visit your local trashgcan because that's where I'll be!!!----------------------Hi, my name is Sana and I love pain.
Dead!!!!!review to come once someone CPR's my ghost-----me: okay, today i am going to sit my ass down and review Wintersong.*grabs laptop and logs into goodreads**searches up wintersongggg**clicks "edit review"*uh this book-i love-THE GOBLIN KING IS MY HUSBA-THE CHARACTERS ARE SO GREA-the writing is gorgeous and-oh look, i can't write a review.
My feet began to move of their own accord, and I followed the Goblin King out of the light and into the darkness."I absolutely loved the way the author added a few poems by Christina Rossetti.A linnet in a gilded cage, - A linnet on a bough, - In frosty winter one might doubt Which bird is luckier now.
We can't forget the music, sure the music is nothing like the music from Labyrinth, but the movie contained a lot of music, an entire soundtrack by David Bowie and Trevor Jones which included songs the Goblin King sang as he communicated with Sarah throughout the movie, similar to how he communicates with Liesl in the book.
Once there was a little girl who played her music for a little boy in the wood.
She was small and dark, he was tall and fair, and the two of them made a fancy pair as they danced together, dancing to the music the little girl heard in her head.
I take back what I said about thinking every other 1-star read by me is the most boring book ever, because this was, by far, the most boring book I have ever read.
The fact that I actually finished it is so surprising to me because I thought about DNF
The romance felt forced to me because she had to give up her life for her sisters and give her hand to the Goblin to get married and was suddenly wanting him for him, even when he responded with "no, not like this." It made me feel uncomfortable because the scenes they had together made me question love.
The Goblin King kept saying he wanted Liesl "Her, entire." and I just did not know what that meant, but she thought it meant her, as in she gives him HER as she is, the 19-year old teenager gives herself TO him.
❝'I am the Lord of Mischief, the Ruler Underground,' he said, mismatched eyes glinting. 'I am wildness and madness made flesh. You’re just a girl'—he smiled, and the tips of his teeth were sharp—'and I am the wolf in the woods.'❞  Thank you to St. Martin's Press for providing me with an ARC!Wintersong was a work of art. S Jae-Jones's writing was breathtakingly poetic and I found myself whisked away by the first page. The storyline was seductive, passionate, and heartbreakingly beautiful. In a
We just kept hearing about how plain she was throughout the whole book which was just as bad as hearing how beautiful these YA characters are.I expected to be swept away by The Goblin King, and for the most part I was.
Even though he was one of the main characters of the story, I really wish we could've gotten more out of him.If you are a huge Labyrinth fan such as myself, I do suggest reading Wintersong without having any expectations that it would closely resemble the book.
All in all, I believe that Wintersong is a great book for fans who enjoyed The Star-Touched Queen or Cruel Beauty.
Kathe (no, I’m not putting the fancy ‘a’ bc i could care less) was a walking piece of glittery shit and so FUCKin annoying I wanted to stab her (sorry I’m going to sound like a crazy person in this review #noregrets)let me give you a wrap up.
(i’m sorry, I don’t even know what I’m saying) where was the intrigue???
——pre-readingso many mixed reviews, but the second book has a beauuutiful cover & you already know I’m in for it
"Spellbinding and sexy, WINTERSONG is a feast for all the senses. I didn't want this beautifully written book to end."
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestYou could say that I'm a hardcore Labyrinth fan girl. I love the movie, Labyrinth, and have seen it many times, glitter-dappled set and cheesy puppets aside; it's an interesting story that's clearly inspired by Celtic faerie lore, and (you could argue) the allegorical tale of a girl's coming-of-age through the use of symbolism. In fact, many of the reasons I love the movie are less because of what's in the story and more of what's explicitl
I love the movie, Labyrinth, and have seen it many times, glitter-dappled set and cheesy puppets aside; it's an interesting story that's clearly inspired by Celtic faerie lore, and (you could argue) the allegorical tale of a girl's coming-of-age through the use of symbolism.
Likewise, Viciously Witty has an excellent Labyrinth fic set in Ireland that is based off and called The Goblin Market.I get that there's only so many famous works of faerie lore, so the possibility of overlap is high, but that just makes it even more important to set your work apart from others' and go the extra mile to make the story interesting and the characters compelling.
Ok so first things first: I didn't realize this was a retelling of Labyrinth when I read it and kept thinking that the story reminded me so much of Labyrinth meets Prince Hat Under the Ground, The Goblin Market, and Little Red Riding Hood. So... obviously that worked! "Once there was a little girl who played her music for a little boy in the wood" The story takes place somewhere around Austria & Germany in the time of Mozart. Liesl played with the Goblin King in the woods as a child, but eve
Liesl played with the Goblin King in the woods as a child, but eventually forgot about him and his game of asking her to marry him because she became more focused on sacrificing everything to take care of her younger sister and brother.
Basically, the Goblin King tells Liesl she has to play his game and bring her sister back to her world by the next full moon.
But I did enjoy the story overall and totally recommend it!I really loved how there was a red cloak and the Goblin King even called himself the wolf.
Then strange things begin to happen and Kathe disappears and no one but Liesl remembers she even exists.
Kathe's disappearance brings the truth to light as Liesl must journey to the underworld and save her sister, eventually sacrificing herself to the Goblin King in her sister's place.
I think some parts could have been done without in the book like (view spoiler)[ Josef being a changeling or Liesl taking so long to figure out how to leave as well as to find Kathe or the whole thing with Kathe's engagement (hide spoiler)].
This book had the greatest beginning of all time:  I am CHALLENGING everyone who reads this review to find a better than this!!  “Winter turned to spring, spring to summer, summer into autumn, autumn back into winter, but each turning of the year grew harder and harder as the little girl grew up while the Goblin King remained the same. She washed the dishes, cleaned the floors, brushed her sister’s hair, soothed her brother’s fears, hid her father’s purse, counted the coins, and no longer went i
A FREAKING PERFECT BEGINNING of introducing a world where magic is hidden/not the norm but exists, a girl who use to be part of that world but eventually left for "reality" but the goblin king never forgets a bargain..muahha
Its the best game in the world: one where he takes what you love and hides the.
The only thing worse than caring, is not caring at all and I feel like a lot of people would relate to struggles Liesl went through.
I love Liesl as a character with a deeper understanding than most.
( which was the only saving grace of this book) Four things that broke it for me which the author did cause I feel like it was problematic.
Now if this was flipped the other way that the MC was telling him no and he kept insisting they have sex I wonder how many five stars it will would have??*sips tea* If those four things didn't happen, this book was looking at least a 2.5 or 3 stars for me cause it did keep my interest to that point even tho I wanted to hit the MC so many times.
A dark and musical love story filled with wishes... The second I read the first page I knew there was no backing out of this story. I knew I would start and finish it with no interruption.The moment you start this book, I still can't comprehend how, the story pulls you in like wines wrapping themselves around you and pulling you in. The entire book has this air of mystery surrounding it even if we know what's happening so it constantly keeps you wanting to read more. After I got past the first
After I got past the first 3 chapters, I hardly noticed how much time has passed and all of a sudden I was done with the book.We follow Elisabeth as she discovers that the stories her delusional grandmother fixates about are quite real and that she should have heeded her warning.
Elisabeth finds out that the Goblin King is real, and now he has taken her sister to the Underworld in order to make her his next queen.
Her relationship with the goblin king is most definitely not what you would call an ideal romance and a lot of her time in the underworld is miserable.
Unfortunately, this book wasn't for me.
Almost half the book in the beginning was wonderful.
I just knew I was going to love this story.
But after that it just fell flat for me, which makes me angry but what can you do?
I love the name of the book, I love the book cover and I love the idea.
I'm happy to know that more than half my friends on goodreads enjoyed the book, some didn't, but I was hoping after their rave reviews that I would love it too.
Anyway, I hope many of you out there really love the book =)
This was Labyrinth by way of Angela Carter, and I think my soul has been aching for a book like WINTERSONG for the last decade. Deliciously romantic with a nuanced Goblin King figure (fancast: Tom Hiddleston) and a strong heroine, this story was rife with fairytales and music and enchantment. It's also more than a little sexy. No complaints here.
It became abruptly clear that this was not, in fact, a story about a musician outsmarting creepy goblins and making sacrifices for family members……it was a cringey, bizarre romance with random tangents about music and an overabundance of sex scenes that made me want to bleach my eyes.
This theme was pretty much shoved down the reader’s throat throughout the book in no uncertain terms: the majority of the plot in the second half consists of Liesl trying to pressure the Goblin King to have sex with her, pushing herself on him and groping him as he repeatedly tells her "no".
I thought I wasn’t going to like it very much but then sweet Elisabeth went underground AND HUNG OUT WITH THE GOBLIN KING.
I was hooked from the moment she went underground.
So hooked that I just read over half of this book in one day.
I just couldn’t put it down!!I loved Elisabeth as a main character.
She found herself in the underground and started believing she was beautiful on the inside, and that’s what makes her a beautiful person.
The Goblin King.
I really liked him and his love interest as well.
THAT SWEET SOUL, OH MY LORDT.
Elizabeth and the Goblin King (my favorite character) were drawn to each other's musical talent.
I myself am able to play the piano and the violin, so I was glad to finally read a YA novel that reflected my passion for intellectual music.
If you plan to read this book without knowing how to play an instrument, be sure to have a dictionary by your side.
Otherwise, you're gonna be hecka confused or annoyed.Wintersong also intrigued me because some aspects of the plot were reminiscent of some of my favorite novels: Stephanie Garber's Caraval and Kiera Cass's The Siren.
;) The ending was what made me put Wintersong on my shelf of favorite books.
Set in a fantasy realm? Check.Ever-so-enigmatic male lead? Check.Teenage girl bethroted to said enigma? Check.The two hopelessly fall in love? Check.An obstacle that they will almost CERTAINLY overcome? Check....now where have I read that one before?
I am also sure you know how unpleasant and irksome it is when the sneeze doesn't actually come.I feel as if I just had to sneeze, and couldn't.•Wintersong (rightfully) has the pretension of bringing you into a magical world without trotting out impossible tasks or adventurous journeys.
For one thing, the first part, concerning (view spoiler)[Käthe's abduction (hide spoiler)], drags out much too long, considering that it isn't even the point.
•Not even the Goblin King fully convinced me, but there's a thing about his character that I absolutely loved and that, in my opinion, wasn't fully developed and exploited by the author: the Goblin King, at first, undeniably acts out of selfishness and spite.
Take a look at a larger version of my shiny new cover, plus some words from me about the design process and inspiration!4.
- What inspired the world of the Underground?- If the main characters of Wintersong wore perfume, these are the scents they would wear.- Wanna know what the characters look like in my head?
and how it influenced Wintersong.- I talk about the real foundation of my book: music and Mozart.- Jareth from Labyrinth was an obvious inspiration for my Goblin King, but so was the Phantom from Andrew Lloyd Webber's 
.- Want to look like the Goblin King?
It is a book that deals with a wide range of themes: Love, pain, selflessness, selfishness, sacrifice, family, music, strength, insecurity, and confidence.Wintersong is apparently a retelling of the movie Labyrinth.
The first half definitely resembled it and I think both Caraval and Wintersong were executed wonderfully.
However, I'm sad I didn't love this book as much as I'd hoped.
However, during the second half is where I think the book started going a tad downhill for me.
Yes, things are revealed, yet there's a lot of questions unanswered (obviously for the sequel).
This is a story about the power of love.
This is a story about the compassion and love and sacrifice between siblings.
This is a story about selfishness and selflessness.
This is the story of the greatest sacrifice.
“Beware the goblin men and the wares they sell.”This book is magical.
The book winds you up in its magic and takes you on this rollercoaster that you can’t get off even if you wanted to ((which let’s be real, you don’t want to))I am absolutely enchanted.
W O WOkay, I have no more words beyond that I’m going to go sob for a while and get dehydrated over it.
As the two of them grow closer, they must learn just what it is they are each willing to sacrifice: her life, her music, or the end of the world.What I Liked:I know what you might be thinking: how did she not love this book to pieces?
At one point, it was like Liesl wanted the Goblin King to have sex with her to "fix" her.
I understand that the story is all about Liesl's transformation, but I couldn't get a good enough sense of the Goblin King.
I've decided on 4.5 stars for this one.
I feel that it's waay too good for 4 stars, but still had some very minor little quirks that make me want to bring it down a notch.
I am going to refrain from getting into too many of the details, as I am saving that for my upcoming video review.
It was such an unexpected treat, and I really love and appreciate when I stumble upon unique fantasy reads such as this one.
Does anyone have some recommendations for fantasy reads that are sort of similar to this one?
I'm going to go on a hunt for a fantasy!
