https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5327620-the-destiny-of-man
Most books are completely wastes of time; most books, especially in philosophy, are wrong, incomplete, uninformed, or merely repeat in some watered-down form something already better stated by another.
This is such a book.Berdyaev's book, originally written as a piece on ethics, is the fullest and clearest exposition of the philosophy necessary for the modern world that I have yet encountered.
It is an introduction to the Gospel's view of the 20th century and beyond.Plainly stated, this book is my new favorite book.
One of my top 5 underappreciated, scandalously and immensely neglected - crucial classic works of all time.
Unlike a traditional explanation of commandments and sin in which moral decisions are merely a choice to adhere or disobey a pre-defined checklist of rules, Berdyaev argues that every moral decision should be a creative experience, an act to consciously create good.
For the latter the so-called freedom of will has no creative character and means only acceptance or rejection of the law of the good and responsibility for doing one over the other.
For the ethics of creativeness freedom means not the acceptance of the law but individual creation of values.
Or maybe it's an excellent treatise on some subject, but then the final concluding chapters descent into inanity.
But *The Destiny of Man* doesn't fit any of these qualifiers -- the start and opening chapters were a rough trodden trail and I nearly gave up on the book.
But this book, kept getting better and better, all the way to the final sentence.
Books on ethics are hardly compelling reads but I found Berdyaev illuminating and profound.
The final chapters on Hell and paradise are still percolating in my mind, but again, profound stuff that struck my cognitive keys.
Ciąg dalszy Nowego Średniowiecza, jednak pisany już w połowie lat 30.
Gdy nowie widmo zwulgaryzowanego materializmu, rasizm krąży nad centrum Europy.
Pokazany jest nam obraz nowego satanizmu w postaci nazizmu.
Autor pokazuje nam zgubny wpływ demokracji, której jak każdy roząsdny człowiek jest przeciwnikiem.
Rasizm i nacjonalizm wskazuje za groszy od socjalizmu, bo tu przemoc i nienawiść staje się celem, a na wschodzie jest tylko środkiem.
Nadal mam problem z jego walką z techniką i humanizmem, choć rozumiem perspektywę zaszczucia lat 30.
Na końcu autor popłynął do twierdzeń, że rasizm jest formą zaczerpniętą mocno z judaizmu, naziści więc są tworem "zjudaizowanym.
Upustio sam se ljetos u ovo djelo ne znajući ništa o ovome autoru niti pretjerano o kršćanskom egzistencijalizmu. Svako poglavlje je za mene bilo dimenzija više i sve više me je intrigiralo. Jako mi se svidio način analiziranja Nikolaja, a osobito usporedbe između totalitarnih sustava 20. stoljeća. Za svakog kršćanina koji želi promišljati svoju sudbinu u našem vremenu, preporučam ovu knjigu. Nećete se razočarati :)
This is for me the most difficult of Berdyaev's books. The physical edition is quite hard to read too with small print crowded on to the page. Its best feature is that it is well-indexed and not too much of a rave as many of Berdyaev's books are. When it was released it was given very favourable reviews by theologians, but I would take some of his other books first.
The title of my copy is "The Destiny of Man," which I prefer. I wish I could say he figured it out. I can't.
Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Chapter 20, as one of Ten Books on the Humanities.
