https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/966757.On_My_Honor
"On My Honor" was always a kids' book that was personal to me.
The author, Marion Dane Bauer, was raised in the same small town as my mother; Oglesby, Illinois.
The events in the book are based on an actual young boy's drowning that took place when my mother and the author were both children.
I grew up playing around the Vermillion River, the same river that is responsible for the life-changing events and eventual coming of age focused on in this very deep book about pain and growing up.
It is probably the first book to make me cry, not counting "Charlotte's Web."
Read it when I was younger, tried again, not worth my time.
If you can summarize the general plot of a book in 2-3 simple sentences, it doesn't sound worth publishing.
If you put time and effort into writing and publishing a book, your hard work shouldn't have a summary that easily fits onto the cover flap of the book.This book just drags out the inevitable, and then tosses in a 'heartwarming' ending in just to soften the dark mood of the book.
Not even worth the read.
Just know that everyone's happy in the end.
Happy ending, right?
This is such an important message, a thousand stars.
This book would be great for a third through fifth grade class to explore dealing with hard times-death, loss, regret, and guilt and could be used in combination with a writing exercise on connecting the story to a difficult time that each student has experienced.
These hard times center around Joel trying to develop the courage to tell the truth and admit everything that happened on that terrible day, so including this book in a text set on character traits for a reading and/or writing unit would be great!
He should have gotten punished for his stupid decisions.
I know he is just a young boy, but in the real world there are punishments to your choices and the boy did not learn that at all.
WHATEVER YOU DO, DO NOT AND I MEAN DO NOT EVER READ THIS BOOK EVEN IF YOUR LIFE DEPENDED ON IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
(Well if your life depended on it, then you should probably read it, but other than that I highly do NOT recommend this book).
Our LA teacher has some of the 7th graders read this book and he gave it to me, telling me it's a quick read.
I read it in about half an hour to 45 minutes.The story revolves around 2 boys, Tony and Joel.
I think the bigger themes here are choices, morality, and helplessness.Pretty good quick read.
It's probably some award they made specifically for this book to make it look good.
OH GOD THIS BOOK PISSED ME OFF.I was read this book when I was in the fifth grade and when the teacher got done reading, I thought there was more to this book, so I checked it out at my school's media center, BUT NOPE!
It's pretty well written for elementary school students, but not quite for an 18 year old girl who read the book 8-7 years ago.Overall, Book pissed me off, Great for elementary school students.
Pick it up for someone with an elementary school student and don't read this if you don't wanna get pissed off.
On My Honor is a book about a kid named Joel and Tony.
Then Tony stops at a river wanting to swim.
An argument happens between Joel and Tony.
Joel gets mad at Tony and challenges him to a swim race .
The river they are going to swim in is dangerous and would be hard even for a pro swimmers.
I gave this book a five out of five because it keeps readers wondering of what will happen next.
On My Honor taught me the lesson that there is always a solution to an argument.
I really enjoyed this book. It has such detail. I couldn't wait to finish it. My school librarian read it to my 5th grade class and I liked it so much, I checked it out and finished it the next day! The HUGE accident is something so lifechanging, it's hard to believe how someone can live knowig that they did something so tragic! I would recomend this to anyone who is looking for a teriffic book to read!
2.5
The book On My Honor by Marion Dane Bauer is an amazing book! The book talks about 2 friends, Joel and Tony. Tony is the dare devil throughout the whole story and I guess that's why the tragic event happens. Joel always wants to go swimming but Tony doesn't know how to swim and that's what Joel doesn't know, so he dares him to race to the sandbar in the filthy river. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who likes reading suspense books and realistic fiction because the event that occurs could happen.
Joel didn’t want to ride out to Starved Rock Bluffs, let alone climb them, but Tony wouldn’t leave him alone.
But his dad said yes, and the boys set off on their bikes, and Tony stopped at the bridge over the river.
Tony went into the river.
And Tony never came out.Guilt is eating Joel alive.
The book is extremely short with a singular, gut-wrenching focus that, in my opinion, eclipses the story.In the end, Joel’s dad tells him, “You can’t live your life by maybes,” which is pretty good advice.
It seems too good to end in a river.”How bleak!
Ugh. I liked what the story was about, the feeling of guilt over something that you did or didn't do, but the story itself left much to be desired.
This is a short book and a short read and an excellent book for children.
First thing to know is that it is sad.
My granddaughter told me when I saw the book on her reading list and she told me that she had already read it, "It is sad." I told her I would read it and then we could discuss it.
I did and we did.Tony and Joel live across the street from each other and have been friends for a long time.
The rest of the story is well worth discussing -- on many levels and about a number of issues.
Newbery Challenge 118/512.
I have two questions: Why did someone write a book about two boys swimming in a river, one boy drowning, and the other not being able to be brave enough to tell anyone?
And why did this book win a Newbery Honor?
The plot is truly, frustratingly tragic and the “lesson” isn’t remotely well done enough to warrant the tragedy.
The ending is nonexistent.
This story is truly and pointlessly sad.
Books like this do not build a love of reading.
Children should not have to read this.
This story of what happens when two boys, ready to prove to the world they are ready for it, find out they are not. Joel wanted to go swimming at the local park, but Tony wanted something more adventurous. One poor decision cost a life. Bauer paints, in few words, what life could be like when kids were left to their honor. Better have a few tissues ready when you read this short book.
This book can be read in one sitting, and is a super sad yet realistic tale about a cautious boy named Joel and his mischievous friend named Tony. This book is a good read aloud or book club book as it has many thematic elements: human choice, fate, family, friendship, and dealing with tragedy.
This book, though short, was so terribly boring to read. It was hard to pick up information because I just did not enjoy it at all. And to add on, the text was written in a certain phrasing that I did not enjoy reading. All in all, I just wasn't a fan.
Read this book in 4th grade,read it again this year.Not worth my time.I got annoyed by Tony because he did a dumb dare and the author left it as a cliff hanger which,I'm not a fan of.Dont recommend this book:(
The main characters were Joel and Tony.
Bauer’s main purpose for writing this novel was to show how our fears can get in the way of our responsibilities.
Bauer also related to the importance of blame and guilt associated with blame in life.
Bauer showed this when Joel put blame on his dad.
She also showed it by the way the father dealt with Joel after Joel hit him and ran off.
I also think that Joel would have drowned when he went looking for Tony at the bottom of the river.
Joel's dad gives permission for he and his best friend, Tony, to ride their bikes to Starved Rock Park and back.
Again, Joel agrees because he's 12, despite his warnings to Tony about the strong current, smelly water and promise to his dad to only go to the park and back.
While in the water, Joel dares Tony to swim out to the sandbar, all the while knowing Tony isn't a very strong swimmer, but is mad at him for "making" him get in the river in the first place.
As the true story comes out, Joel blames himself for Tony's death, yet his father apologizes to him for not being able to take away the pain.
Bauer also puts a lot of emotions when Joel turns around and can’t find Tony.
When Joel does realize that Tony has drowned he tries to look for him but then when realizes that he is gone, Joel goes home and tries to act as though he doesn’t know what has happened to his best friend.
Would they have told the police or would they have gone home and told their parents, or maybe would they have not told anyone and why would they have done this differently?
When Tony and Joel ride their bikes out to the state park, things quickly get out of control.
After what seems to be a typical squabble between friends that are growing apart, Joel dares Tony to swim out to the sandbar.
But when he reaches the sandbar, Tony is nowhere to be found.This book is extremely short -- a total of 90 pages, and reads in chronological order, following the events that lead to Tony's death and how Joel chooses to deal with it.
This is a very short book, around 85 pages, but that doesn't mean it is a light or easy read.
It is in how the tragedy is handled rather than the tragedy itself, that gives the book its weight and complexity.
However, my son is 10 years old and while he reads at a high level, I believe this book is too complex for 5th to 7th grade readers to fully appreciate without an involved adult ( parent or teacher ) Additionally, I thought the ending of this book read more like a short story ending rather than a novel ending and would have liked to see one more chapter.
I was actually quite tempted to stop reading it but I pushed on as the book won an award.
Also, the book was short and it was mainly about what Joel thought and what he felt, so the actual action was only a teeny part of the SHORT book.
I think Marion Dane Bauer was trying, through all that writing of emotions and thoughts, to show how guilty Joel was.
Therefore, I would NOT recommend this book to others, unless you are someone who likes to spend hours and hours analysing the book.
If you are like me, please do NOT read this book.
This book is amazing!
The author is very detailed and every word seems to go together with the story perfectly.
The two main characters are very different which makes the story interesting.
The way the author wrote the book makes you want to read more every time you put the book down.
Even at the end of the book it seems like there is more.
The story is absolutely amazing!
You can kind of tell how its going to end but then you read more and then your not so sure.
This book is terrible.
Possibly worse than Bridge to Terabithia.
Possibly.
It's only saving grace is how short it is.
The characters are idiots, so you don't really care about them.
It isn't "sad" that a particularly odious fictional character meets his untimely demise, which he brings upon himself.
And why should I care about Joel's emotional trauma?
How many of us have gotten our best friend killed through sheer stupidity?
(Although Tony isn't exactly the brightest blade in the block himself) Words can't express the depth of my loathing for this book and its medal-winning, dog -and-child-killing, sentimentally-soliloquizing kin.
Incredibly moving story. Read it in an hour. I picked it up as I was partway through another Newbery Honor, Audubon--long, boring, not surprisingly difficult to find in a nearby library. This really shows that sometimes a few carefully chosen words can be more powerful than hundreds of pages of explanation. I've read all the award winning Newberys at this point and a third of the honors, and it's a mystery to me how the books are evaluated. If anyone has insight into the process, I'd love to learn more.
On my honor is about two young boys, Joel and tony.
It all starts on a day when Joel and tiny are home and trying to find something todo.
Joel try's to persuade him by going swimming at the local pool.
Instead tony tells Joel they'll go tomorrow and then they're off.
Once they're on their way the stop at the vermilion rice and tony gets in.
After he is in he pressures Joel into getting in with him.
To find out the rest read the book on my honor by Marion Dane Bauer.
Title:  On My Honor Author: Marion Dane BauerGenre: Contemporary Realistic Fiction Chapter BookTheme(s): Accidents Fiction, Human Behavior Fiction, Youth and Death Fiction, Accidents Fiction, Friendship FictionOpening line/sentence: “On your honor?” Joel’s Father said.Brief Book Summary:12-year-old Joel and Tony have been best friends since they were little.
Faced with the enormous impact of the death of his best friend and struggling with the guilt that follows, readers share in the challenges that Joel encounters as he moves forward, rethinking life and the decisions that he makes.
(PUBLISHER: Sandpiper (Boston:), PUBLISHED: [2012] c1986.) Professional Recommendation/Review #2:(Book Bird Reviews ) Twelve-year-old Joel has unwillingly agreed to bike out to the state park with his daredevil friend Tony.
