https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/490867.Knuffle_Bunny
Even as a wee lass, Trixie loves her Knuffle Bunny and takes him along when it’s time to go to the laundromat.
On the way home, Trixie realises that she’s forgotten her beloved friend, but cannot convince her father to turn around, as she has no actual words yet.
It is only upon their return to the house that Trixie’s mom notices the issue and the entire family begins the search, all while Knuffle Bunny waits patiently to be found.
Neo enjoyed this Willems piece and sped through it without issue.
Funny enough, his greatest concern/worry was why someone would have to leave their own home to to laundry.
I'd give this book extra stars if I could (5 is so limiting, no?) for the amount of times the phrase "she went boneless" has made me laugh at completely random moments during my work day. It's a perfect description of what toddlers do during a tantrum. You know, when they collapse on the ground (this is great fun in a public place) making them nearly impossible to lift. I also happen to love these illustrations, with simply rendered drawings superimposed on black and white urban scenery (Brooklyn, I presume). An all-time favorite.
Sorry, but I have always been rather easily creeped out by especially cartoon-like images and little Trixie with her overly large and bulging eyes really does almost give me the proverbial willies (and thus, while I can appreciate Mo Willems' ingenuity and do like the combination of pictures and black and white Brooklyn photographs, I just do not enjoy the exaggerated caricature renderings all that much on a personal and aesthetic level).Now regarding the story itself, I in fact do totally and untterly identify with young Trixie's non verbal frustration, with the fact that she is trying so hard to make herself be understood (that Knuffle Bunny has been left at the laundromat) and that her father annoyingly and infuriatingly simply does not get it, never does notice that Knuffle Bunny is missing.
“Knuffle Bunny: A Cautionary Tale” is a Caldecott Honor book from Mo Willems, creator of Cartoon Network’s “Sheep in the Big City.” This book is about how a toddler named Trixie loses her Knuffle Bunny at the Laundromat and has a hard time trying to tell her dad that they lost Knuffle Bunny.
“Knuffle Bunny: A Cautionary Tale” is truly one of the most brilliant children’s books ever written that children will love for many years!Mo Willems has truly done a brilliant job at writing and illustrating this book about listening to your child when he or she is trying to tell you something important.
Okay, so I debated adding the picture books I've read because they are so short and when you've worked in a children's library they can quickly add up.
That can be slightly misleading when the book count at the top says, "you have read 1965 books!" That being said, I'm only putting on my absolute favorites and what I consider to be quality children's literture.
People are always having babies and books make a good gift.
Those books are crap, even if the television show they're based on is educational and entertaining.
Mo Willems is wonderful, his books are witty and clever and can easily be enjoyed by children and adults.
Heart-rending, yet hilarious tale of a toddler who's not yet able to speak, and her attempts to communicate that her favorite toy has gone missing - Trixie bawled. She went boneless.(Have you ever tried to pick up a boneless child? It's nearly impossible!) I like the combo of cartoony characters set against b&w photos.  It's easy to see why this one has become a modern day classic.
The PandaBat loves this, even though she's never had a special stuffed animal or blanket or anything.***The PandaBat has always loved Knuffle Bunny. Which is not as ominous as it sounds. It's a good thing, really.2007 Dec 20She really loves Mo Willems, too. The Elephant and Piggy books, the Pigeon books, all of it, except that one travel book. Which she doesn't get.***2008 Jul 12If there's a baby coming into the life of someone you know, give the Knuffle Bunny and the two sequels. They will love you for it.4/19/2011Library copy
I really love the incorporation of photos of real places and the paintings (not at all realistic) of the characters and other objects that make up this book’s illustrations.The story of a lost favorite toy of a preverbal child will strike a chord with young children.
(In a most of candor, Willems admitted that he Photo-shopped all the trash and debris out of the pictures when he noticed how dirty his neighborhood looked.)What is so perfect about this book is the language nuances parents have with their children before they can speak, and the utmost importance those things of comfort really are to our children.
While on vacation one year, we stopped at a store to pick up a few items, got in the car and drove 90 minutes down the road before Owen started asking for LeLe. A quick look around the car and we were turning around to drive the 90 minutes back to the store, hoping and praying that LeLe was still there and that some other kids hadn't found her and made a claim on her.
Mo Willems is the current children's book Juggernaut.
Here is Eleanor's review for the first one:Me: Tell me why you liked the first book.E: Because Trixie was a baby.
And I like babies.Me: Tell me what happened in the book.E: KNUFFLE BUNNY WAS GONE!!!
WAAAAAAAA WA WA WAHHHHHHH!!!Me: Do you have a favorite toy?
Or did you have one when you were a baby?E: Mm-Hmmm.
I had a favorite toy.
Did I tell you that these are my favorite Mo Willems books?E: HUH?
No. You didn't.Me: Do you think other people will like them?E: Yeah.
I think I like them.
The NICU where DS#2 spent a few uneventful days (*) had a shelf of free children's book giveaways, which is where I got this.
Didn't particularly care for the story of a baby losing and (do I need a spoiler?) (view spoiler)[regaining (hide spoiler)] her stuffed bunny.
Perhaps for DS#1, who is very tightly bonded to his own bunny and long-time companion, it strikes too close to home.
It was strikingly less worrisome for me than what the usual NICU parent because it was a) obvious he wouldn't be there for long and b) my 9lb+ giant looked absurdly out of place next to the tiny preemies.
This is a great story that our girls could relate to. It's about a Dad and a young toddler spending time together. But it's also about the struggle of that young toddler who is learning to talk and the frustration of the Dad who doesn't understand. In addition, it's illustrated in a very unique way, using real photographs superimposed with cartoon characters. We've read this one a few times.This book was selected as one of the books for the May 2017- Caldecott Honors 2003-2007 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
We finally got around to reading the first Knuffle Bunny, when Trixie was a baby and first got her bunny, and lost it for the very first time. The illustrations again were Caldecott honor worthy and a unique way of following the story. Willems once again delights the younger and older audiences alike in this book. A worthy addition to any children's library.
Ah, Knuffle Bunny is a classic for a reason. Funny and creative and a great read-aloud. I love the mix of cartoony illustrations and black and white photos, and the story is relatable to all parents and kids. I think my favorite part of the books is the expressions on the parents' faces, starting with the photo album in front.
I really can't stand Mo Willems, but I try to give him plenty of chances as my students love his stories so much. This one was better than most, but still average.
A MILLION STARS!
In this popular children’s picture book, Knuffle Bunny, Trixie, and her father take a walk to run some errands.
When they arrive home, Trixie’s mother knows right away what is wrong.
Trixie, father, and mother rush out the door to make it right.
Knuffle Bunny is creatively illustrated through the use of mixed media.
Cartoon characters are drawn over photographs that serve as a backdrop in each picture.
Willem’s uses roughly drawn text in text bubbles to show how Trixie is communicating and why her father is having a hard time understanding.
This is a unique and fun picture book for children.
It is a very simple story of a toddler, Trixie, and her best friend, a stuffed rabbit she calls Knuffle Bunny (pronounced Ka-nuffle Bunny).
One day, they head to the Laundromat with Trixie’s daddy.
After loading the machines and heading home, Trixie realizes that she doesn’t have Knuffle Bunny.
Daddy doesn’t understand why Trixie is so upset.
Once they arrive home, Mommy comes to the rescue as soon as she notices Knuffle Bunny is not in Trixie’s possession.
After searching and searching, Knuffle Bunny is found.
Trixie declares her first words, “KNUFFLE BUNNY!”My son looooooved this book and I found thought it was okay; hence the 5 stars are his rating.
I loved the images of this book; the way the black and white photos worked together with the bright, colorful illustrations, I really thought it brought the characters to life.What really stuck out to me was Trixie's inability to verbalize her realization that she had left Knuffle Bunny behind.
Willems does a great job of relaying the raw emotions of Trixie's character.
On the next page, you see the bunny's ears in the machine and on the following page, we see Knuffle Bunny staring out of the machine, almost in a plead to be released from the wash.Very heartfelt story accompanied by awesome photos and illustrations.
Knuffle Bunny, caught my eye at the local bookstore.
All the frustration and craziness, and joy flooded my senses and memories as I remembered my Knuffle Bunny experiences with small children.(I have five children).
I found myself chuckling out loud as I came to the page with the baby under his fathers arm both with extreme looks of frustration on their faces!
So for the last week Knuffle Bunny pops into my head while I'm sitting at the doctors office or wandering through the grocery store.
A great one to share with children.
On a reflective Saturday, it's time to pay some due to Mo Willems.
While in college, Mo Willems became a big thing in the picture book world.
This is my favorite series he has created, and I just love the tribute to his daughter, Trixie, in the form of Knuffle Bunny.
This is a beautiful book to page through and look at.
When you factor in the moving story of a young girl and her favorite stuffed animal, you get a tale that draws connections to all!
The highlight of this book to me is the art style with its cartoon-y illustrations over lovely photographs of Brooklyn, NY.
(For the record, I liked the photos better than the drawings.) The rest of the story is cute but didn't blow me away.
It read more like a sweet personal family story a parent would write about their child's favorite toy.
Is it warning parents that if they are clueless to their pre-speaking toddler's needs they are in for a tantrum?
But everyone seems to love this book so maybe it's just me that's missing something.
(I do love this author's Pigeon books, though!)
Mo Willems does a beautiful job by juxtaposing the photographs depicting some background with the cartoon-like characters. The story of little Trixie and her toy is really poignant. In my opinion, the illustrations are so expressive that the text is, in fact, unnecessary. Trixie’s facial expression when she “realized something” is so telling that the readers are already aware what she realized. I enjoyed reading the book, and I felt as if I was watching some of Cartoon Network series.
Another of Willems' charming and hilarious tales, though Edwina, the Dinosaur Who Didn't Know She Was Extinct is still my favorite . I probably would have enjoyed this more if I were a parent and used to the tantrums! ;->
Perfectly captures that childhood experience of losing a beloved toy, and that frantic feeling when you realize it.
A perfectly nice story that is easy to grow tired of after multiple readings
I wouldn't have given this a Caldecott, but it's certainly better than Don't Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!
I loved how they were set on top of actual photographic backgrounds of the city and the laundromat etc.
Ok yeah, you should pay attention to when your kid is throwing a fit and actually try to figure what they're trying to tell you but I wasn't that impressed.
Don't take a screaming kid all the way home when they're pitching a fit unless you know why or you will have to go all the way back when you finally realize the reason?
I don't have kids.
And I'm a super helicopter dog mom so if he's crying or whining the world stops until I know why.
As a parent to four children, all whom have been dramatically attached to their special blankets during their young years, this is a very relatable story for my entire family.
The illustrations are unique because the back grounds are actual black and white photos, yet have cartoon characters placed within them.
The story is about how a little girl loses her special rabbit.
The mom and dad frantically backtrack their route to the laundry mat and find her special toy.
( Yes, this has happened several times in my family and life simply can't go on until the blanket is found!).
I loved the mix of the black and white photos and the illustrations! It was so cute. I also liked that it showed the father taking care of the child and running errands, you don't see much of that. It shouldn't be jarring to see, yet it is, because it is so unfamiliar.
