https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41698.Deep_Six
আজ (৯ জুন, ২০১৮) সারারাত কলানতিকর অফিস করে সকালে বাসায় এসেই সকাল আটটা থেকে দুপুর দেড়টা পরযনত একটানা শেষ দু'শ পৃষঠার মত পড়ে তবে নড়তে পারলাম । কলাইভ কাসলার বহুবছর পর আমার কাছে আবারও পরমাণ করলেন, ওলড ইজ গোলড । ভিনটেজ কাসলার ইজ অলওয়েজ দয বেসট ইন দয বিজনেস । দুরদানত, দুরধরষ, দুরনত, মনতরমুগধকর বিনোদন ।পাঠকজীবনে আমি আজনম কলাইভ কাসলার তথা ডারক পিট-অযাডভেঞচারের অনধভকত হয়ে গিয়েছিলাম সেই কিশোর বয়সে, ডারক পিট বা কলাইভ কাসলারের অসতিতব সমপরকে অবগত না হয়েই, 'মাসুদ রানা'র অবিসমরনীয় সব অযাডাপটেশনের মাধযমে ('চাই
আজ (৯ জুন, ২০১৮) সারারাত ক্লান্তিকর অফিস করে সকালে বাসায় এসেই সকাল আটটা থেকে দুপুর দেড়টা পর্যন্ত একট
One of two Cusslers I've read - this one is so over the top it feels that he's kind of the Ed Wood of thriller writing. As such, it is quite enjoyable, but if you like your stories to be about things that can actually happen and heroes that could be real people, skip this one.
Sti militari!
After this chapter in the Dirk Pitt saga, its really time to call a halt.
Its the last of the Pitt episodes which has any kind of credibility or plausibility whatsoever.
Clive Cussler (the author) unfortunately, does not know when to stop with this goofy series.
An author of grossly immodest self-appraisal, overweening ambition, and plutocratic lust for riches.
These are the only possible reasons he ever had, to drag out this hysterical silly series of sea-adventures possessing a knock-off American James Bond character.This particular novel is boiler-plate Dirk Pitt.
Read it and toss it aside; and consider yourself the better for knowing when enough is enough.
It seems like each time I start reading a Clive Cussler book I finish the first chapter and say, "Oh my god this guy can write." This was no exception.
This story is quick, entertaining, and thoroughly enjoyable.
As I noted last time, it also has too many coincidences, takes on plot elements so big that they verge on ridiculous and diverges sharply from reality.
This doesn't bother me, although I admit that I think that Tom Clancy does a better job with realism.
On the other hand, I don't think I laugh as much while reading Clancy books.
These books are always exciting and informative. The way Pitt disposed of the villain wasn’t typical, which also intrigued me. I’m in the process of listening to any books in the series I might have missed. So, onto the next one.
I enjoyed the book, but for some reason I had trouble keeping my attention. Maybe it was just me, but with so many characters and everything going every which way, it sometimes lost me. It was definitely unpredictable, to be honest, I'm not sure what happened to some of the characters. I did enjoy reading it, it was just a bit hard to keep track at points!
Ridiculous plot as a Korean matriarch, on behalf of the Soviet Union, kidnaps the hierarchy of the USA and then brainwashes the President. Pitt gets involved and saves the day against incredible odds. Couple of interesting additions to his team in Perlmeter and Hiram Yaeger and nice to see Loren Smith return as a love interest who is more substantial than others in this series. Vaguely enjoyable but that is all.
I cannot say that I disliked the book, but I'm not sure that I need to read another Cussler story.
His stories are well plotted, lots happens, not necessarily by the way of surprise plot twists, but the action scenes are well thought out with the hero racing from one predicament to the next.
At the end of the book, the hero saves the damsel and the villain perishes.
In many ways, I am surprised that they haven't made one of his books.
On on a side note, Cussler's life reads like a superhero
One of the better books I have read in a long time, excellent thriller. You have just got to love how Cussler pulls all these seemingly random strands together.
There is a lot of science fiction in this book and the prose is often clunky, but it doesn't lack for suspense, especially at the climax.
Dirk Pitt has at least nine lives and possibly a lot more since this is the seventh book featuring him.
The author is very knowledgeable about diving and salvage operations, and this expertise is evident.
The book has a lot of characters that are difficult to keep track of, since they are often mentioned by just their names rather than a title or affiliation.
I wanted to have a cast of characters in front of me.
In the 7th installment of Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt NUMA action-adventure series, Deep Six, Dirk Pitt returned in this thrilling novel. A deadly tide of poison flowed into the ocean, a ghost ship drifted across an empty ocean, while a Soviet liner went on fire, and the Presidential yacht cruised across the Potomac while the President disappeared without a trace. Dirk and Al took on a sinister Asian shipping empire and fought to save the country, while seizing one moment for revenge.
Typical action, one man army hero type novel. A good read for people liking such novels.
Working along with Dr.Julie Mendoza, Pitt finds out the sunken ship and all the containers of Nerve Agent S.
As Moran and Loren boards, Pitt was attacked by Lee Tong, the grandson of Min Koryo and he takes Loren with him.The President under mind control returns to White House, rules as a Dictator.
Pitt not fully recovered through help from Yaeger and Perlmutter finds out the secret lab and tries their best to save the United States, Vice President and Loren Smith.
(Pitt asking to release news about finding of two ship wrecks instead of one)4.
(Pitt's answer to Loren's Secretary Sally on finding Loren Smith in Leonid Andreyev cruise ship)5.
Deep Six is Clive Cussler's seventh Dirk Pitt adventure and for most people reading it, they would have read at least some of the other Pitt adventures.
Those people know what to expect from Cussler and would be more than satisfied with another tale of a marine engineer saving the free world once again.
I think this book, Cussler's 7th, is the start of the transition from one phase in his career to another.
Ok, this was creepy. Set in 1980's, the book is about the president being manipulated by the Russians. As I type this indictments went out to arrest 13 Russians who manipulated the 2016 election and potential collusion by Trump. This story was fun and while the technology is non-existent even today, it works.
A Dir pitt classic
The prologue pulled me right into the story. The action continued, the tension increased.Years ago, while in the Navy, I fell in love with being on ships. This story brought naval memories. So much happens in this story, scuba diving, ship traveling, mystery solving, to name only a few.Even though I thought the plot was a little far-fetched, I enjoyed it anyway. President kidnapped and brain-washed.I look forward to more Dirk Pitt adventures.
Typical, exotic Cussler.The President is kidnapped and the Russians plant a mind control chip in his head.He declares the US a dictatorship.Deadly poison in the Artic ocean.A huge fleet of ships stolen.Ugly, brutal Korean family is responsible for it all.Can Dirk Pitt help?? Of course, but not until the last pagef1
While investigating this crime, he stumbles across the Presidential kidnapping plot.Like most of the Pitt novels, this one motors along at breakneck speed as we are introduced to a surprisingly large cast of characters and spend our time moving between US government figures trying to hide knowledge of the kidnapping plot, Soviet agents aiding and trying to block the success of the kidnapping/brainwashing scheme, a private investigator seeking revenge, and a host of myriad characters.
Certain elements of the novel are dated, such as the existence of (1) the World Trade Center and (2) the Soviet Union (but then again, given how the fictitious KGB head shares both his first name and last initial with former KGB officer Vladimir Putin, maybe not entirely dated after all),but that does not detract from the book's entertainment value.Also contains many examples of old-school Cussler's delightful way with words, including (but not limited to):--p,39: "ungainly finesse of an inebriated goose," Haha, nice metaphor!--p.
This actually ended up being better than I expected. After being disappointed by too many books in a row, I decided to go for the next Dirk Pitt novel on my TBR list. I figured that at least I'd know I was getting into melodramatic and over-the-top situations. Clive and Dirk delivered what I was looking for and then some - a Russian scheme to brainwash the President of the United States, emotional promises of vengeance coupled with pounding fists, and a half a dozen ridiculous reasons for female characters to be tearing their clothes off. Excellent brain candy.
This is the same comment for all the Dirk Pitt books:Great set of books, I had to stagger these books into my reading rotation since they are so similar. Dirk Series Book in less then 50 words.(introduction to bad guy, introduction to hot chick, introduction to Dirk, Dirk gets in impossible dangerous situations to stop the bad guy, Dirk wins, Dirk gets the hot chick.)
Another strong early Dirk Pitt adventure that I loved. Once again a cool mix of history, international intrigue, and one of the best villainess of the series. These earlier Cussler novels are amongst his best in my opinion.
Yet another reread... and each Cussler I pick up gets better than the last! I am remembering why I loved these so much!
It was so ridiculous that it took me nearly forever to read. Some other Cussler books are fun and light, but this was way over the top.
Fantastic.
Either I have lost lots of IQ points since then (who knows), or Clive Cussler has enormously improved as a writer between the two books.
There are enormous plot holes and coincidences (what is even the point of the early chemical threat?) but I’m okay with those since the story is unapologetically silly anyway.
Even though the misogyny has also thankfully been toned out a lot (replaced with Asian racism), it’s too bad mister Cussler apparently can’t write a book without getting at some point a main female character stark naked for no good reason.
Pretty typical early-ish Dirk Pitt novel.
Not quite as misogynistic as as couple of the others but still very full of manly men and the ladies that love to please them.
I read these mainly because I really enjoy these adventure stories that tie the past and present into crazy escapades.
And Al Giordino is a great character even if he is second fiddle.
If you can get past the chest puffing macho bullshit these are pretty fun stories.
For completeists there will be nothing new or horribly exciting, but those are the only folks I would recommend read this book.
In a very short time we discover a convoluted set of plots where the President and the next three members in line for the Presidency are kidnapped by a group of criminal Koreans working in conjunction with the Russians, advanced brain-washing where the memories of others are used to supplant the new victim's memories, somehow the US Military comes to support unconstitutional behavior, there is a plot to overthrown the government, Dirk is chasing villains and naval vessels all over the coastline, a Russian cruise ship is destroyed outside Cuban waters, and Dirk narrowly survives multiple attempts of near-death experiences before the villains get what's coming to them in the end.If he were to have written this today, I wonder if he would have had the SEALs so handily dispatched?
