https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4271.About_a_Boy
And I guess that's partially what this book was about.Growing up, realizing that your parents don't always know what's best for you, and telling them to stuff it.Although, the Mom in me thinks this is a terrible idea.Kids, if you don't listen to your mother, you'll turn out just like Marcus...Look at him!
Because, you know, they're a bit more willing to compromise about certain things.Now, having been a single mom, I should be irate with his character.
And he did it by pretending he loved children and was wanting to get involved in organizing some sort of Halloween thing for the kids in his neighborhood.
I don't know why I love to do this.
Like the rest of Hornby's work that I've read, it's hilarious in such a BRITISH way (so dry, the laughs usually coming from some poor uptight Brit's bumbling embarrassment).
In this case, he also gets into the mind of the eccentric, troubled Marcus, who's twelve and being raised by a depressed hippy mom who sings earnest folk songs "with her eyes closed" (this most spot-on description of Marcus' mother and uncool people generally comes up often in the book and always cracked me up) beautifully.
We all know him.
The old me is like the old Marcus from before he changed at the end.
There are books that have chapter endings such as " she was relieved to find the window unbroken" or " she felt at home here in the doughnut shop".
But my point is, whenever cliffhangers are propped at the end of chapters in About A Boy, they catch the readers' attention.
It was only at the end of chapter 32 that I noticed there were only two cliffhangers in total in the book.
In a way Rachel got Marcus together with Will.
Like most, I have read this book after seeing the movie adaptation with Hugh Grant years and years ago.
Despite having to constantly pretend to have a family the plan seems to be working, until Will meets Fiona and her 12 year old son, Marcus - who quickly discovers Will's act.
Like it or not, Will takes the troubled youth under his wing - and in the course of their relationship both will learn much not only about one another, but about life itself.This is a very entertaining and fun book to read, if not particularly memorable.

Brilliant - ok, that's just a bad homage to the Brits but really, this was a funny, sweet book.
Rather, between a mid-thirties man-child (Will) and a peculiarly wonderful twelve year old (Marcus).
It's a book-long question as to just who is the 'boy' in question but ultimately we find maybe both are and again, maybe they're both men as well.
The cast of characters also includes Marcus' hippie-dippy, suicidal mom, a handful of Will's female conquests & Marcus' Nirvana-loving fifteen-year-old dream girl (the setting is early 90's London).
In combination they tread what could be dreary ground with endearing & funny psychoses, self-righteousness and sincerity.
I suppose I chose this book because I thought it would be a breezy read.
About a Boy shares some of the morbid outlook of that book, but comes up feeling lighter and more entertaining.
It doesn't try to be overly deep, and it sort of rejects any sort of glib endings or hints at elaborate and deep structures to the world other than: "We're all messed up someway and we do our best to go on." Despite sharing some of the pessimism of A Long Way Down, the book finds ways to be funny and upbeat.
This was a terrific book from beginning to end.
Equally funny and sad but never dreary despite the very serious overtones of the book.
Marcus was a peculiar, wonderful boy with a huge burden on his shoulders and I really enjoyed watching him become a stronger, confident person.
Will was also great.
I loved the fact that he was a such a self-centered jerk and completely content to remain that way.
Until he meets Marcus, that is.
Their relationship was laugh out loud funny and so very believable.
I had a very difficult time putting this book down.
A very easy, breezy book that doesn't have the (to me anyway) expected ending. I know, I'm late to the party on this one (and it explains finding it at a book sale) but I'm guessing the book was better than the movie. This would be a nice summer read that's a little more serious than the usual beach/chic read. Very odd cover though.
I enjoyed this book a lot more than the first book I read by Nick Hornby, How To Be Good.
Will ends up realising that maybe being intertwined with people isn't such a bad thing while Marcus learns that relationships come and go.
The only thing that annoyed me about the ending was that in the last chapter, Will describes Marcus as having changed dramatically.
The best thing about the writing was definitely the characters Hornby wrote.
I would recommend this book & I would read more by Nick Hornby.

This is an interesting book with a lot of different characters and character development. It was my first book by Nick Hornby but it's definitely not going to be my last :)
I hadn’t watched the About the Boy movie before reading the book and so I knew nothing about the plot nor the characters.
I loved Marco’s naivety and his ability to see things in a straightforward, literal way, and I loved Will’s hilarious cynicism.
But Hornby’s fantastic at portraying these situations in a comical way without taking away their importance, whether it’s by using dialogue, events, or references to popular culture.I played out the whole novel in my head as a film and cannot wait to see how the real version differs.
This is the story of the most immature adult meeting the most mature child.
As if you have known me for a long time and everything just rolls right out of your tongue!
Will is the cool dude, the funky awesome one who doesn't even have to work; money just falls right into his laps.
While executing one such plan he meets with Marcus who is always the odd one in his class yet the most mature child in the universe.
Do yourself a favor and read this book at least once in your life (just a humble request from a fellow passenger of life)!
So I liked the movie better than this book.
I think the characters in the movie were done better, and that's actually very rare.
Though I do think Marcus is autistic as fuck.
His character was sweeter in the movie.
I liked how the theme wasn't conform and be a normal teenager but just be yourself.
Marcus influenced Will because he was a cool, unusual kid.
I identified more with movie Marcus than book Marcus.Still, there were some parts of the book that might have worked better in the movie.Also, Joni Mitchell is awesome except for thinking she has a disease that doesn't actually exist.
I can't help it, I just adore his STYLE.
The way he writes.
The way his characters develop.
The ending is somewhat vague, but that is so not the point, the actual point is in the process itself, in Horny's style, his characters whom he has the power to describe so believably that I can see right through them, can understand everything they're feeling; in funny moments which the book is full of.
I fell in love with the way Hornby describes things.
I fell in love with "About Boy" almost at first sight.
That is certainly a book to savour.
What an absolutely delightful book. I watched the movie many years ago and I have to say that Hugh Grant is the perfect Will.Hornby does magnificent character writing, but with quite a lot of humour - there were so many laugh out loud moments!Fabulous audio narration too - highly recommended
[Actual rating: 4.5]
Lajt, prozracna pricica o disfunkcionalnim ljudima.
Non sono abituata a leggere un romanzo dopo aver visto il film tratto dal suddetto, ma posso dire di aver trovato le differenze tra le due versioni di "un ragazzo" gradevoli e giustificate dai diversi media.AggiungoQUI il commento "scritto meglio" .
It's the story of a teenager boy who can't find peace neither at home nor school, then he meet a 36 years old guy and the lives of both change .
It's sad how divorce or bad relationship between parents ruins the lives of children , and affect their future and personalities ..
and it's awful how an adult men (or even wemen) those choose to live alone away from families and make a relationships just for a short time with no love , no sacrifice , end up with them feeling lonely and have no one to share happy and bad times with ..
چه بگویم؟ فقط اینکه با وجود تمام احترام و ارزشی که برای نوشته های سرکار خانم گرکانی قائلم، ترجمه این کتاب را دوست نداشتم
Right in that area between 3 stars and 4 stars. I enjoyed the dialogue and most of the humor worked for me. On the other side, many of the scenes felt forced and the characters never felt completely real. I'm still interested in reading High Fidelity but it won't be one of the next books I read.
This is 3.5 stars for me, and it's all because of the ending.
I really like this book.
I like the alternating third-person perspectives; Hornby did a good job expressing a twelve-year-old boy's thoughts and feelings; I like the way Marcus and Will change over the course of the novel.
But the ending.
I understand that people have to either change to fit in or become stronger to stand out.
I just don't get why Hornby had Marcus change to fit in and ended the book that way.
And that's what this felt like to me.
I'm going to say something that I don't say very often: The film is better than the book (I think I can say that about a total of three books).
But don't let that put you off from reading the book.
Actually, the film is quite faithful to the book, almost word-for-word.
However, the book is really a gem on its own.
It is so rare to find a book that is wonderfully charming, with laugh-out-loud dry British humor, yet speaks to the human realities of suicide, depression, loneliness, and bullying without feeling heavy.
This is one of the rare times that I watched the movie and the show before reading the book. I knew going into the basic story but the characters had much more depth in the book. It was a much darker humor than it was portrayed on screen. About a Boy was a quick and easy read, great for a rainy day.
Oltre a questo, si trova a dover affrontare le conseguenze della rottura del legame tra i suoi genitori, che lasciano Fiona, la madre, in uno stato di depressione persistente, che la conduce ad un tentativo di suicidio, gettando su Marcus una responsabilità che non è in grado di reggere.
Beh, Hornby ci descrive un tentativo in questo senso nel libro.
Come si fa ad essere bambini in un mondo così?
Come si fa ad essere adulti in un mondo così?
Come si fa ad essere una coppia in un mondo così?
Come si fa ad essere single in un mondo così?
This had a similar style and humor which was so refreshing after a long week, but it fell short of High Fidelity's originality and wit - I guess each book needs to be judged on its merit, but even so this one was sometimes too silly or too cheesy, as if he just didn't have another 'slimy yet endearing' guy left in him.It was enjoyable enough, and Hornby's humor is so great in that sardonic British way that even a book that is somewhat disappointing is still a fun read.
It's full of great humour, pretty effective drama and mostly believable characters.
Sometimes Marcus is a bit too articulate and smart for a 12-year-old to be believable, but on the whole the characters are great.
I sympathise with Will's indignation quite a bit, but also like his growth.
I also initially didn't want to read About a Boy even after it was on my bedside table because the name sounded stupid and I remember I disliked the trailer of the movie 10 years ago (I watched it again and I'm not sure I was even thinking of the right movie).
I almost find it sacrilege to claim a movie is better than the book.
I just think the adaptions they made to update the book (it's set in the era of grunge music) were improvements and the cast well played (especially Marcus).
Since I didn't read the book before I saw the movie, I kept picturing his interpretation to the character, even when I would not have interpreted it that way I found his version better.
About the only thing I liked better in the book was the relationship between Will and Rachel.But enough about the movie.
The book is enjoyable.
