https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869977-the-flight-of-the-falcon
His group was about to begin their second day of morning shopping -followed by lunch - refreshed from a night sleep when it's discovered that there has been a murder off the via Sicilian.....
Fabbio wasn't ever interested in going to a clients room --so he walked outside and slipped that note and ten thousand lire into the pocket of the old women on the church stairs.
This story is just beginning!!!-----------------BOOK DISCUSSION INVITE: For anyone who would like to read this book with a group of members here on Good Reads we will be discussing it the entire month of April.
With The Flight of the Falcon she told with great conviction, how this excerpt from an imaginary ancient German text, “Lives of the Dukes of Ruffano” had resonance through the ages, serving as a template for current events.In “The Rebecca Notebook: and Other Memories”, Daphne du Maurier stated:“All childhood memories are visual.
In The Flight of the Falcon we have not one but two parallel sets of brothers - the twentieth century Aldo and Armino Donati and the sixteenth century Dukes, Claudio and Carlo.
Duke Claudio’s likeness is depicted in both the faces of Christ and Satan, reflecting the dual nature of good and evil.
Armino reads through a historical text about the lives of the Dukes of Ruffano and gleans further testimony as to the character of the infamous Duke Claudio: "His brief life is shrouded in mystery, for contemporary authorities do not enable us to pronounce with certainty on the enormous vices wherewith tradition and innuendo have blackened his memory.
3.5 stars.‘The proud shall be stripped … the haughty violated … the slanderer silenced, the serpent die in its own venom …’This book was fascinating- not so much for the story telling but for the themes.
Of loss, of insanity, of obsession, of our own histories and how they influence our present.
The book was gothic and sinister,the characters difficult to empathise with.
I feel this story is bigger and deeper than my understanding and that the themes are important.
There is that sense of claustrophobia and repression and the duality of good versus evil, sexuality versus sexual repression, of living in another’s shadow.
Distraught over the woman's identity he takes a holiday from his job and heads north to the city where he was born and where he recalls the murdered woman - Ruffano.
Du Maurier slowly builds her story into one heck of a climax as Armino finds himself in the midst of rival student factions and campus politics, all of which culminates in the final plot to recreate the "flight" of The Falcon, the first Duke of Ruffano, for the city festival - but will this flight end as disastrously as the first one?
Du Maurier is good, even at her least suspenseful. And the plot here was not one that held any surprise for me. But her town descriptions and the campus were spot on. It's certainly not my favorite, and I had read it before. About 1/3rd of the way through I remembered most of it. Some writing becomes extremely "mindset" dated on a reread after decades. This one didn't. But then again, those 1960's were certainly not my 1960's- so it was fairly difficult to mindset this time frame and nuance of it for me, in the first place.
I read this with a buddy group on GR and am so thankful I did. They added so many layers to it that I would have missed if I hadn't been reading it with them. Nobody but nobody writes atmosphere like Daphne DuMaurier and, in this one, I actually heard music being played in the background.
There is a deeper meaning hidden within its pages, that would appear to me to be about temptation, self-illusion, the struggle of good and evil within a man, and the importance of being willing to dare and to try and to perish in the effort.Armino Fabbio is a nondescript tour guide, making his way through the familiar territory of Rome, when he is plunged into his past by a chance encounter with a woman, a drunken destitute woman, who reminds him of his childhood nurse, Marta.
For example, a page boy once forgot to provide lights for his evening meal and he had his head set alight and left him to die in agony.Armino apparently left Ruffano aged 11 just after the war, his father having died in a camp and believing his brother, also called Aldo, to have been shot down from his plane in the fighting.
He finds Ruffano a hotbed of intrigue and mystery itself - a secret university society and various "rags" being perpetrated, so it would seem, by rival factions of students against each other.The pace of this novel is extraordinary once Armino is back in Ruffano.
Read the novel as part of a group read here on Goodreads.
This is one novel by du Maurier that I wasn't aware of but the synopsis sounded interesting.
It's not the best du Maurier novel, doesn't come close to some of her other work.
I enjoyed the setting and the descriptions of the town of Ruffano the history and its inhabitants.
The mystery component wasn't as tightly woven as with other novels.
The sinister overtones weren't maintained throughout which is a trademark of the author.Favourite character was the ambiguous Aldo Donati.
Worth a look at if you enjoy the author.
This is the first book of Daphne du Maurier I have read.
Not a popular book for her, wasn't even mentioned in her obit?Armino is a tour guide for Beef and Barbarians.
An experience with a homeless lady reminds him of home and he ends up dreaming of his parents and the palace.
The problems of the day with student demonstrations, questioning the arts in the walled Italian city of business peaks during the festival of the city’s fifteenth century ruler, the evil Duke Claudio, known as The Falcon.du Maurier does such a good job writing about the medieval streets, historic churches and palace they seem very beautiful and charming.
Ruffano / Urbino che sembra contenere nel suo piccolo tutte le nefandezze del mondo intero, vecchi rancori e antiche tradizioni, tensioni pronte ad esplodere nel grande spettacolo finale che mette in scena la rievocazione storica del "volo del falcone".Come Icaro egli volò troppo vicino al sole.
Premise: The tale is narrated by Beo and largely fixated on Aldo.
Tourist guide Beo chances upon the murder of a tramp, who turns out to be his old nanny Martha.
•	His designs are veiled, except to Beo. Aldo uses his charisma and his eloquence to create a cult of berserk fanatics.
For his grand finale, Aldo unleashes all his venom through his devoted followers.
Can Beo shake off the awe and see through Aldo’s maniacal plans?Can Aldo fly like the mythical Falcon or will he succeed in scaling even higher heights?Strengths: Daphne’s characters stay true to her narrative style.
I just recently took its semi-tattered little self into the room to be packed wtih the more cherished volumes.Nothing random in the fact that I picked it up when it first came out in paper given I love DuMaurier's books but this was very different from those I'd read before encountering it.
And that inexpensive little paperback copy has moved around the country with me and resided on the bookshelf in the mountain cabin for the twenty-some years we owned it "just-in-case" someone should be snowed in and need something with a bit of meat for their reading enjoyment.
One of my own re-readings took place on a visit to the cabin, late on a snowy night.
You should read this if you want a literary trip to Italy.
All the references just took me back or reminded me of things I'd done or seen or felt at some point in Italy..You shouldn't read this if your expectations of du Maurier are high.
Although written in a different vein, this doesn't even come close to the likes of "Jamaica Inn" and "Rebecca" and the whole plot is just a bit bizarre.
There also isn't that dark and sinister undertone and because we associate du Maurier with this I felt like I was always expecting it to come in its highest climax..Favourite Quote: "Emotion is wasted.
Full review to follow.
I know I read it once before, about fifteen years ago, because I recently found a list I'd made of book I was reading at the time, and this one was on it.
That is not a good recommendation for a suspense novel (or for my memory, but that's a whole other topic.)If it weren't for this review, I suspect that fifteen years down the line, I might forget Flight of the Falcon all over again.
It's not a bad book, but it's a bit slow-paced and predictable, and I find Du Maurier's writing style rather dull.
I was a little so-so on this book.
On the one hand, I found the actual plot pretty predicable, right down to the "flight" in the title and all the revelations leading up to it.
On the other hand, I enjoyed how du Maurier depicted a 1960s college campus in Italy as a little fiefdom, with department heads serving as nobility, students as peasants, and the Rector as a benevolent but absent king.
In fact, he was actually very like a stereotypical woman in books from this era!

The Flight of the Falcon is rather typical of du Maurier's work, brooding and gothic and beautifully atmospheric. Her prose is a treat to read, as ever, though the main character/narrator seems even more colourless than her usual -- I don't think I've really sympathised deeply with any of her narrators, but I won't even remember this narrator's name by tomorrow morning, I think.Definitely not du Maurier's best, but if you really enjoy her prose and the gothic mood she can invoke, this one is a solid example of the species.
Wow, a book that I should have read long ago. It has been sitting on my shelf for many years. Loved the mystery set in the historical context and the twist and turns of the plot. I am now wondering what other gems I have missed by the author of Rebecca.
The present and past stories converge through the guise of the town’s annual festival, entitled ‘The Flight of the Falcon’.The elements of crime novel within The Flight of the Falcon tend to become glossed over after a while, and are not quite built up enough to keep the reader guessing.
I did not feel an ounce of compassion on behalf of the narrator, even when he was descriving some of the sadder things which had happened to him, and there was a relatively detached air to the whole.At first, The Flight of the Falcon is a relatively easy novel to get into, but the pace is rather slow and it does tend to become bogged down in details from time to time.
But if the rabble's reactions are taken in a more metaphorical sense, which I believe is du Maurier's intention in spite of the otherwise high realism of the book, this should become less jarring.Finally, I should note that there are aspects of this book that would offend modern sensibilities.
You should read this book to recognize how such sensibilities have changed over time.
More like 2.5 stars than three, but I have a sentimental attachment: I picked this up 3/8/77 in the fathers' waiting room at old Robinson Memorial Hospital in Ravenna, Ohio, and read it after our daughter was born and while I was waiting for her and my wife to be taken to the hospital room.
Not sure how long that was, but I got a lot read that night!I loved duMaurier's "Rebecca" and think this was probably the second book of hers I'd read, Quite different!
Daphne Du Maurier has a way of writing a book much like a Hitchcock movie (which is probably why two of her books were made into them).
She keeps the reader guessing to the end with a unique finale.
This was a good book, but I had a difficult time warming up to the characters.
Once he arrives there he discovers there is a war of factions in the local college.
It seems that something or someone is precipitating this war.
Here we meet more characters that I find equally unlikeable.
Carla Raspa seems a bit too desperate as a single college lecturer.
I am really happy because i own this book and i practically saved it from being thrown to the dustbin.Actually the edition i found in the streets it was a gift of Doubleday & Co. to the Athens College library.I really don't know what happened but the book was thrown away.
you don't throw it away!!!Above all it's a book, no matter if it is a good one or not, you don't even think about it to throw it away!!!Last but not least, i read the book and i really enjoyed it, actually it is a very good book and i am really happy because i saved it.
I think this was du Maurier's attempt to write something romantic - with Renaissance Italian themes - but also make it current by invoking the campus unrest of the 60s. (At the imaginary University of Ruffino, or was it Ruffano, or Refulgo, or Rafalca, I've already forgotten - two disparate student groups clash, the arts students and the "C & E" students - commerce and economics, sometimes violently.) At the heart of this terribly boring tale lie mysteries of birth, death, and murder, and an Icarus-like flight from a Duomo, or something.
Daphne Du Maurier creates a disturbing world in each of her works, which is not a surprise. After all, she wrote 'The Birds', famously made into a really scary movie by Hitchcock. I liked this book for its 1960s Italian university town setting, her descriptions and the narrator. The psychological drama seemed both predictable and heavy handed; I think this would be better as a movie than as a novel. This book is from my mother's bookshelf, a book club selection from 1965.
Lovely book by Dame Du Maurier with another plot style.As a young guide for Sunshine Tours, Armino Fabbio leads a pleasant, if humdrum life -- until he becomes circumstantially involved in the murder of an old peasant woman in Rome. The woman, he gradually comes to realise, was his family's beloved servant many years ago, in his native town of Ruffano.
Este livro não me agradou tanto como outros da Daphne du Maurier, apesar do seu tom misterioso. Sensivelmente a meio da história "resolvi" parte das questões que vão surgindo e fiquei com a sensação que houve partes em que a história se alongou em demasia.
