https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64481.A_Northern_Light
i used to get really angry at this book, because it would come up in resort all the time and some people would just shelve it in my section because it looks like a grown-up book, not like teen fiction, and i would always have to be yanking it off the shelves and saying "nooooo, you go downstairs!!" like shooing away a mischievous dog.
i love that she based this whole story around the murder that inspired an american tragedy, but i think even without that storyline, this would have been a wonderful novel of a girl with aspirations above her gender and financial situation, torn between her family and her ambition, with a strong subplot about her best friend's struggles with racial inequality in his own life.
And a fellow word-lover meself (actually, I can safely bet that whoever’s reading this review is also fond of words, right?), I loooved this aspect.And you can see how much she loved words through the following passages:"Well, it seems to me that there are books that tell stories, and then there are books that tell truths...The first kind, they show you life like you want it to be.
All those books...I bet not one of them will tell you what cancer smells like...
The Hook - When I worked in the library I often recommended A Northern Light to older young adults or even adults looking for a good historical fiction book. Now mind you, librarians cannot read every book in a library but we pay attention to reviews, awards and patron comments. I had never read A Northern Light but could book talk it based on the above criteria and never heard any complaints. In fact most who had never read anything by Jennifer Donnelly picked up The Tea Rose or other of her bo
The Hook -  When I worked in the library I often recommended A Northern Light to older young adults or even adults looking for a good historical fiction book.
Now mind you, librarians cannot read every book in a library but we pay attention to reviews, awards and patron comments.
I had never read A Northern Light but could book talk it based on the above criteria and never heard any complaints.
In addition they would add up to 5 other food items for books read.
The Line - ”Why isn’t real life like book life?” The SinkerA Northern Light is many things.
Rating: 4.5 Review:  "Words fail me sometimes. I have read most every book in the Webster's Dictionary of the English language, but I still have trouble making them come when I want them to. Right now I want a word that describes the feeling you get - a cold sick feeling deep down inside - when you know something is happening that will change you, and you don't want it to, but you can't stop it. And you know, for the first time, for the very first time, that there will be a before and an after,
This historic YA novel, set in 1906, weaves in the true crime story of young and hopeful Grace Brown, who was cruelly drowned and murdered by her lover, and who left behind a legacy of love letters, so sad and tragic.
This is such a beautifully moving story, character driven, with so many different events happening, that I was very involved in this time period of 1905-1906, in the setting of the Adirondack Mountains.
There are many deep elements at play, which include the racism of the time period, made all the more personal by Mattie's friend Weaver and his mother, who undergo such hardships, even though they are not, under any circumstances, slaves.
I rate one star not because "I didn't like it" but because there is a nauseating amount of this genre book in existence.
The genre of book where the author tries to set the world straight on what a girl should do with her life and how she should be treated.
Now that is something worth reading and pondering on, like Willa Cather's O Pioneers where the protagonist makes peace with shattered expectations.
I'm still waiting for the book about the girl who wants the glory of the stars but chooses the drudgery of the earth, that will be a story worth reading.
"Set in 1906 against the backdrop of the murder that inspired Theodore Dreiser's An American Tragedy, Jennifer Donnelly's novel effortlessly weaves romance, history, and a murder mystery into something moving, and real, and wholly original." I'm "borrowing" the blurb for this story for one reason..."Why?" you ask. Because this book was NOTHING like I thought it would be based on the summary. Now, that doesn't mean that I didn't love it, because I absolutely did. It just means that I thought the
And that, my friends, is what made this story so wonderful, "something moving, and real, and wholly original".Because, ultimately, this is simply the story of Mattie Gokey, a sixteen-year-old girl, the eldest of four daughters being "cared for" by a grieving father who lost the love of his life and is too lost in his grief to see that his girls are suffering as well.
After all, she had promised her dying mother she would never leave and she had a duty to help her pa with the chores and with raising her younger sisters.The story that unfolds around these facts of life is sweet, poignant and real, just like Mattie herself.
Sweet 16! (SPOILER)That book was a trip down memory lane. I had forgotten how it feels to be 16-17 and dream about the future. I remember myself growing up on a beautiful island with my family. I often seeked solitude and I always had a feeling I was supposed to live some place different. When I left the island I took all these memories and stories from home with me! Just like Mattie... Definitely a page-turner!"I believe these things. With all my heart. For I am good at telling myself lies."
But I’d also seen the dark of things.
The story describes Mattie’s coming of age at the turn of the century, in a family of four girls who have just lost their mother to cancer and whose brother has run away.
An overarching theme of the novel is the denial of this dead girl’s voice, the loss of her story through murder, and the impact this has on Mattie’s own life decisions.
Each of Mattie’s sisters has a personality that comes off the page; and her father is one of the strongest characters in the story.
Hope Davis narrates audio book (8h 49m)Jennifer Donnelly's historical fiction/romance books for YA readers are always a real treat.
It is also into this story that the body of a female guest at the hotel where Mattie works is found and this becomes one of the many threads of the book.
Coupled with the superb talents of Hope Davis on the audio, I felt that I "knew" each of these characters so very well and came to care for them in much the same way that Mattie did.
Mattie, herself, is incredibly naive as a reader would expect from a girl in the early 1900's.
Mattie’s voice is spot on; the language is poetic but not overly so and evokes an overall feeling of nostalgia, of things ending, new ones beginning, of lost hopes and lost chances, with just the right amount of humour and lightness.The mystery revolving around a young woman drowning in the lake is not so much a mystery, but more so just the most important one of the many episodes Mattie encounters on her way that help her make her decision at the end.This book is not weighed down by an all-consuming love story, but I would have wished for the romance to be a bit more … romantic and for me to actually be involved in it.
A Northern Light is one of those books you come across every few years; the type of novel that buries itself in your heart from the first page and simply lingers in your thoughts for days, weeks, and even months afterward.
While society pushes Mattie towards a life of love and comfort in a house with children, her own heart begins to push her that way too, which makes the decision to chase her dream that much more difficult.
It is a story that left me pondering for days about how much has changed for women, and farm families, and life in general, since the early twentieth century - and how much has remained the same.
In one's desire to love and be loved, live and let live, how thin is the line between life and death?From the evocative cover to the author's acknowledgements and note, this is one captivating, exceptionally good read.
FOUR **** Hauntingly Captivating, Exceptionally Written and Researched, Historical Fiction **** STARS
Mattie drowning in responsibility and weighed down by her sense of duty and others' expectations.
Using the framework of the drowning of a young woman in 1906 Jennifer Donnelly gathers up the threads and images present in a poor close knit farming community in the Adirondacks and uses it like a loom to weave together a complex pattern in which oppression and repression intermingle with ambition and vision.
Aside from that anyway it is just a good story and the fact that the tragic Grace, dead when the novel strarts, is a real-life character just adds to its sadness and effect.
Mattie is an aspiring writer and yearns to attend university, but her family responsibilities hinder her dreams.
A Northern Light is an interesting blend of historical fiction, murder mystery, and commentary on sex, race, and social status at the beginning of the 20th century, but mainly this story is feminist at its core (but not in an "in-your-face"/bra-burning way).
Ultimately, A Northern Light is about how limited life choices for women were and how hard it was to assert independence.
I loved him from the moment I met him out-wording Mattie in the field and getting to read The Count of Monte Cristo (one of the best books I've ever read) to her as a reward.
I loved his linguistic kinship with Mattie, and that they were able to relate so well with each other.
That aspect was interesting yes, I love true crime and I especially love dramatizations showing what most likely happened, but the real joy of this book was in the scenes between the dramatic lake-side mystery.
It wasn't until the very end of this book that I realised exactly how much I loved it. I am unsure if I would call it enjoyable, more like a very well written, intelligent and absorbing read rather than something I would call uplifting. It's definitely haunting, and definitely something everyone should read.
Ωραια γραφη και πολυ καλη ροη οσον αφορα τα γεγονοτα. Σιγουρα θα διαβασω κ αλλα βιβλια της συγγραφεως!!!
The author has quite neatly woven the story around an actual historical event; the murder of a young woman called Grace Brown (also the basis of Dreiser's An American Tragedy).
The story revolves around Mattie, who is 16, her family and community.
Mattie has aspirations to write and be educated and is held back by her responsibilities to her family since the death of her mother.
The story is rather sweet, but is also formulaic; the heroic teacher, the older males in the book are a pretty grim lot, Mattie grumbles about happy endings in literature but the author delivers a predictable ending (not entirely ringing true).
This is the UK title for A Northern Light - a book I’ve had on my TBR for years.A Gathering Light is the most feminist and empowering YA book I’ve read.
And I knew in my bones that Emily Dickinson wouldn't have written even one poem if she'd had two howling babies, a husband bent on jamming another one into her, a house to run, a garden to tend, three cows to milk, twenty chickens to feed, and four hired hands to cook for.
I also knew what being lonely was and I didn't want to be lonely my whole life.
Weaved throughout Maggie's fictional struggles is the real life story of the death of Grace Brown, as seen through Mattie's brief (and fictional, of course) interaction with her, and letters that she left behind (the letters are real, by the way).This is not an idyllic coming of age story full of flowers and happy, skipping children.
My favorite part of the novel is a scene where Mattie sees her teacher's library for the first time-more books then she has ever seen or heard of that inspires her into a passionate speech about writing.Well, it seems to me that there are books that tell stories, and then there are books that tell truths...The first kind, they show you life like you want it to be.
The negatives: the book is dark and depressing.
All of the males but one are scum; there are very few gentlemen, which I don't think is an accurate portrayal of the time.
Don't think so.) The theme is that marriage and motherhood kill the soul.
An excessively negative picture of motherhood emerges; the portrayal of childbirth and breastfeeding is horrific.
This book is recommended for ages 12 and up, which I definitely disagree with based on the dark theme and negative portrayal of motherhood (YA don't yet have the experience to put this into perspective).
Disliked this book for three reasons:1.
She was supposed to be so smart but I thought she was stupid, I'd figured out the big 'mystery' by the second page but she was clueless until nearly the end.2.
3. I thought the writer was projecting her own viewpoints (eg feminism, equal rights, being a stay-at-home-mum is a waste of intelligence, *real* literature is miserable and makes you depressed and the rest is just fluffy chick-lit) onto the characters instead of trying to think how someone in that period would feel.
I hate it when writers give characters in historical fiction MODERN ideas and sensibilities.
”I knew then why they didn’t marry. Emily and Jane and Louisa. I knew and it scared me. I also knew what being lonely was and I didn’t want to be lonely my whole life. I didn’t want to give up my words. I didn’t want to choose one over the other. Mark Twain didn’t have to. Charles Dickens didn’t. And John Milton didn’t, either, though he might have made life easier for untold generations of schoolkids if he had.” A Northern Light speaks to me on transcendental levels. I truly am at a loss for w
”I knew then why they didn’t marry.
I also knew what being lonely was and I didn’t want to be lonely my whole life.
I didn’t want to give up my words.
I didn’t want to choose one over the other.
Historical fiction has always been one of my favorite genres, but as of late, I haven't exactly been blown away by any of the previous books.
This book has stolen the title of being one of my favorite historical fiction books not only this year, but of my entire life.
This one takes a little time to get some momentum going but once it does, it's good. I think the description is a little misleading. I think it's a more coming of age book than a mystery. I personally think The Tea Rose was a better written story by Donnelly but I think this was maybe her debut novel. With that said, not bad at all.
I wouldn’t call this great writing.
It is overall an engaging book, but not great writing.
However, I’m not sure that the true story couldn’t have been separated into its own book.
Both stories would hold an audience’s interest, and I think that some of the resulting clumsy writing is because she was trying to blend too much.
I think that it would have appeal to YA girls, but I don’t think it would have as much appeal to an older audience, or adults.
I think that 12 – 16 year-olds would be the most likely audience for this book, again due to the fact that kids like to read about older kids.
If I wasn't crazy enough to set a mini-challenge for myself every month, I don't think I would have picked up and discovered the beauty that is A Northern Light.Mattie Gokey is working at Glenmore when the body of Grace Brown was found in the river.
A lover of books and the written word, Mattie dreams of writing her own, too, but poverty, her family and a possible romance all comes to her, forcing her to decide if she should follow her dreams or stay and fulfill her promise to her dead mother.The summaries I wrote there is not enough to do justice to the beauty of this book.
Mattie, a sixteen year old girl in 1906 rural New York, has an incredibly intelligent mind, a gentle spirit, and a passion for literature.
It has shades of the word fable in it, as if it wants you to know that that’s what most conversation is—people telling each other tales.Whenever I read historical fictions set over a hundred or so years ago, I am always struck by the reality of being a woman during that time.
This book reads like a classic because it really is a great work of literature.
Thank you Jennifer Donnelly for this great gift of literature.Is there a word for that?
За трудния избор да поемеш пътя на знанието и свободния живот, по време , когато това е било почти невъзможно,особено за жена.И извода в книгата , написан с думи , които хем ме разсмяха,хем натъжиха:"Уийвър все казваше,че свободата е като пенкилер.Винаги обещава повече,отколкото предлага."  Никога не съм чела с такова удоволствие , описанията и безкрайните детайли за едно или друго нещо.
Тя май се оказа най-коварната от всички човешки грехове."Старите хора все се оплакват,че зрението им отслабва,но на мен ми се струва , че с възрастта започваш да виждаш по-добре.При мен със сигурност е така."26.03.17Току що намерих тази поговорка : "Когато четеш книга за първи път, създаваш ново приятелство.
It is brilliantly written and the characters so real and truthful.
I love Mattie, she feels real to me and it is as if I really know her.
A feeling I am sure she will understand.Mattie to me is as memorable and as charismatic as Cassandra Mortmain from I Capture the Castle (which is just about my favourite book) and I think they would have been friends.
One day Mattie will write a book and it will be a truly great one that is about truth - about what really happens and how people really feel.
She loves to read books and learns a new word from the dictionary everyday.This peaked my interest because #1 I LOVE books about books, and #2 I love reading books about people's lives and experiences that I have zero knowledge in.
Here, it's living in the 1900s in simpler times, as well as maintaining a farm.
I also liked how this novel intertwined a real-life murder mystery of a woman named Grace Brown, who was thrown off a boat in 1906 by her lover.
(they showcased it on Unsolved Mysteries!!)
