https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826935.The_Jugger
The book and the movie work together in an interesting way, the technicolor stylization of Godard contrasting with the bleak middle America setting of the novel.
It made me think about how each of us has a totally different reading experience from one another for any book we read, and reminded me how much memory in my case colors and shapes the way I picture the world a novel is taking place in.
I think it would be interesting, although ultimately boring to anyone besides the reader (or at least in my case) to know where people imagine the stories they are reading to take place, how they picture the characters.
Jug, back when this was written, was slang for bank, so a jugger was a bank robber, and Joe Sheer was a safe cracker. Our protagonist, Parker, had worked jobs with him before, and used him now as a go-between when someone wanted to get hold of Parker.Parker heads to Nebraska to check things out, and ends up between a slimy cop and another hoodlum and his girl looking for easy cash.Parker is a hard case, but I was surprised at the unexpected violence 2/3 of the way through. Well written crime/noir story.
In Richard Stark's The Jugger, everybody's favorite sociopath Parker (AKA Charles Willis) has to beat cheeks to Green Acres when his osteoporotic middle man Joe Sheer sends out a distress signals, and Parker, looking out for Numero Uno, is worried that Sheer's goose is cooked and that there might be a lot of bread crumbs lying around the joint leading straight back to him.
Parker needs to act-wise to get to the bottom of it all before he misses out on the score and has his cover blown sky-high.This one's better than The Score (the only other Stark I've read as of this writing), but the plot (at times) bends in such implausible ways that it's enough to make a contortionist's neck snap.
I don’t think Parker was ever really going to help Sheer; he was worried that Sheer, older, mentally losing it, might betray Parker’s secondary identity.
I don’t think so, though it is still well-written, with some clever twists.The book takes some time to slow down and share some of Parker’s philosophy, which is intriguing:“.
No actual jugging takes place in this book; in fact, not that much memorable really happens, though the primary reason he went to Nebraska to protect his false identity (the one he uses ten months out of every year when he is not supporting himself doing heists) is a kind of failure, which I assume is a set up for the next book or so.
Parker heads to Nebraska to help out a friend in trouble, Joe Sheer, a retired safecracker (or jugger).
Only when he gets to town, Sheer is dead and a crooked cop and a crook both think Parker knows where to find Joe's stash of stolen money.
But does the money even exist?The Jugger is a break from the usual Parker formula.
Instead of planning a job, Parker has to get a crooked sheriff off his back and convince the interested parties that Sheer didn't have any money.
Of course, Parker does it in his inimitable style.
The sixth Parker novel is somewhat of an oddity, there is no heist involved at all.
This letter makes Parker seek out his previous co-worker and if necessary take action.
Parker finds the man deceased and already buried.He then finds himself in a search for wealth by the various parties and is directly involved by all parties.A very well written book that deviates from usual books by Stark, and does so in a very exciting way.
It is more a mystery with Parker thrown in as a sort of detective.
The end of the story however changes a lot for Parker in the future.Well advised.
When Parker gets a couple of letters from retired safe cracker Joe Sheer saying that he’s having problems, he’s worried that the old man is getting pressured into revealing secrets.
Since some of those secrets would be about him, Parker packs a bag and is off to Nebraska thinking that he may have to permanently shut Joe up.
But the police chief is instantly on Parker’s tail, and another thief is in town and won’t leave Parker alone.
We know from the previous books that Joe Sheer was one of the few people that Parker would even remotely consider a friend, but he doesn’t have a moment’s regret about potentially having to kill him.
Parker surprised me in this book. In previous stories I'd come to think his thieves' code made him moral. His behavior isn't out of character here, but I mistakenly started thinking he was basically a good guy.....not really. He can still shock me with swift brutality. Great book.
One of his old comrades, Joe Sheer, writes to Parker, initially telling him he has some problems he is handling, but then asks Parker to come help.
Joe was a safecracker and one of the people who could reach Parker about a job.
Parker decides to help his friend, but arrives too late: Joe is dead and the circumstances of his death are shrouded in mystery; however, another crook shows up looking for money and the local sheriff wants the loot too.
As always, Parker's best work is improvising a solution when things go awry, and he crafts an artful solution to this problem.
Yet even though this is quieter and more restrained than other Parker novels, that doesn’t mean the stakes aren’t high, as what ends up being threatened here is one of the most fundamental things of all – Parker’s secret identity.We’ve already in these books seen Parker come back from the dead; we’ve already seen him as the strongest, smartest, most powerful man in any room he’s in.
And like all good super individuals, Parker has a secret identity.When he’s on, he’s Parker, super thief extraordinaire; but on downtime, he’s mild-mannered businessman and laundromat owner, Charles Willis.
An average story most of the way, but I liked the twists and turns at the end.Parker comes to town after receiving a strange letter from one of his guys.
Parker is the main bad guy, a brilliant strategist.
He partners with different guys for different jobs in each book.If you are new to the series, I suggest reading the first three and then choose among the rest.
The rest can be read as stand alones.The first three books in order:								4 stars.
The Outfit.Read these two in order:5 stars.
Butcher’s Moon (Bk #16)Read these four in order:4 ½ stars.
…a man never apologized for what cards he'd been dealt; what did Joe Sheer think all of a sudden at age seventy, he was the captain of his fate?
It's an interesting look into the fatalistic worldview of Parker, whom John Banville in the introduction describes as "the perfection of that existential man whose earliest models we met in Nietzsche and Kierkegaard and Dostoevsky." Parker's a symbol of Sisyphean revolt, making no apologies for the cards he's been dealt because he's always got another one up his sleeve.
I really liked this one. Stark was getting too formulaic & this one broke out of that mold in a great way. Parker is still himself, but the circumstances were not what he's used to. As usual, Steven R. Thorn did a good job of reading. Very well done!
Parker is a problem-solver, and usually these problems arise in the course of planning and committing robberies. In The Jugger, however, Parker's problems are the residual result of a life of crime. Sometimes, Parker must solve problems not to earn money but just to stay out of jail. The staying-out-of-jail Parker is less interesting than the earning-money Parker, but Parker is always Parker, which is to say that The Jugger is a good read.
"When the knock came at the door, Parker was just turning to the obituary page.”

A little slow developing, but the last third was excellent. Parker is a viper; don't mess with him.
The Jugger is the 6th novel in the Parker series.
Parker lands in the middle of it all and tries to sort out who is who, who knows what and who has blood on their hands.
Together they rush headlong to the inevitable conclusion.For someone who churned out two or three Parker novels a year during the time this little gem was written, Stark weaves an intricate little yarn of deception and deceit.It’s highly entertaining pulp fiction.
I just don’t understand why a 160 page novel needs to cost me almost AU$ 15 on Amazon.
Not bad, but kind of a clusterfuck.
The premise is very seducing, Parker's trusted man Joe Scheer has recently passed away and left an intangible treasure and a bunch of greedy rats in his wake.
The idea was great, but the execution left to be desired.
The characters keep shuffling and bumping into each other to try and get to Joe's money and miserably fail while Parker has to keep up appearanced at all times because someone always finds a compromising piece of information on him.
Too bad, it had the potential to be great.
Somewhat of a depature from Parker's usual storyline, we find our favorite thief returning to a small town in Nebraska. He ties up a few loose ends at the death of his former partner, a safecracker ("jugger"). This is one of my favorite Parker books, to date. Lots of close shaves, greed, and desperados. Westlake's hardboiled writing is sharp. Not much humor or wisecracks distracts the reader.
This was the slowest starter of the Stark books I've read so far, but it picked up well after about the halfway point and finished strong.
Another great entry into the Parker series, one in which things don't go entirely as planned. A crooked cop and the passing of an old friend puts Parker in hot water. Which by now is how I think he prefers his water :) Highly recommend this entire series so far. While these books were published in the 60s, they hold up extremely well!
This one plays with the formula a bit. There's no job, but from the start it's all sour and we see Parker's mercilessly cold calculations in even starker (eh? eh?) relief than in previous books.
I re-read this in 2017. One of the best (read: most icy) Parker novels.
You have no idea what's going on or why Parker is out in the middle of nowhere.
The slow unwinding of what is essentially a non-plot (the macguffin is that there isn't one) is well handled, and Parker's actions in attempting to keep his Charles Willis cover intact is typically brutal.
The narrative structure uses a lot of falshback, to show us how things came about, and sometimes this felt unnecessary—I was more interested in the here and now than the backstory (which I sort of already pieced together)—but still a fast, well written read.
You need a safe man, a lock man, an all round thief, a hitter...the Jugger can put you in touch with a "trustworthy" (well relatively) person.
This is the Jugger who Parker has worked with a long time.
He knows all about Parker and now that he's acting in a totally un-jugger way this knowledge is not a good thing.
Looks like Parker may need to take a hand you know, help the guy out...Or remove the threat.Another good addition to the violent (sometimes ultra-violent) story of our cold, selfish and efficient criminal.Still good, still interesting and it still creeps me out a little that I'm into these...
I was tempted to go 5 stars on this, as it's just a fantastic tight little tale.
But I suppose it doesn't fit the description of "amazing".
Whatever.Throughout this story, like most Parker stories, you find yourself constantly thinking, "Oh man, Parker's gonna kill this guy." Or, "OK, Parker's gonna kick this guy's ass now."But then he never does, when you think he will.He's so ruthless as a character (meaning that Westlake is brilliant as the writer) that not only does he catch his victims off-guard, he also totally lulls the reader until -- just like that!
-- the poor bastard is on the ground, unconscious or worse.
For Parker, this guy Sheer is his contact when he disappears into his Charles Willis identity.
What happens if someone gets the drop on old man Sheer and finds out that Charles Willis is Parker.
Westlake himself has had misgivings about this one, deciding after it was published that Parker wouldn't have gone to Sagamore to help anyone, but it's been pointed out that Parker's goal was preserving his clean identity of Charles Willis, a Parkerian selfish motive.
You almost get the sense that Westlake himself wasn't too thrilled with either the journey or the destination, and he threw in a ballsy last chapter twist that, ironically, makes the whole thing well worth it.The Jugger lacks the typical pacing of a Parker novel, Parker himself seems to ask more questions than all the previous novels combined, and his main adversary is little more than cockroach-like nuisance that gets way more attention than he deserves.I respect Westlake for treading outside the box a bit, but The Jugger didn't really work for me compared with the other books in the series.

