https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13827.This_Immortal
How can I describe a plot of a book with less than 150 pages; the book that has alien spies, unstoppable assassins, mutants, a vampire (created by scientific means), a secret terrorist organization, several exciting and deadly fistfights, and a seemingly immortal guy?
Now of of these guys decided to make a pilgrimage among the places of the oldest human civilizations, most notably Greek (the book has quite a few references to Greek myths).
Yes, the first book that comes to mind the moment anybody mentions science fiction.
This would be the reason I do not recommend getting to know Zelazny with this book.
The tour guide, Conrad, who tells the story from his POV & most of the trip is through a surreal blending of SF & diverse mythology brought to life by radiation.
One of the best guides to this story is contained in NESFA's Power & Light, the second of their "Complete Works of Roger Zelazny".
In expanding this to a novel, Zelazny didn't really add all that much to it - nothing that matters too much.If anyone ever wants to do a group read of this, please let me know.
"Do you not see a convergence of life and myth, here, during the last days of life on this planet?" Somewhere between "Heart of Darkness" and "Tales of the Dying Earth", Roger Zelazny found once again a story to tell about ordinary people acting like Gods in the desolate aftermath of a world war.
So how could this slight 174-page Ace paperback (David, if you will) rival a Goliath like Dune?It’s the story of Conrad Nomikos, a man in charge of maintaining the ancient ruins of classical human civilization on a post-holocaust Earth scarcely-populated by humans, mutants, and fearsome mythical creatures, mainly as tourist attractions for the alien blue-skinned Vegans (no, they’re not opposed to animal products).
You will pass, but the hills of Greece will remain, unchanged.Later in the novel, the night before Conrad is slated to duel Hasan the Assassin over the fate of the Myshtigo, they share a pipe of some alien substance that relaxes and Conrad’s resolve to fight the Vegans weakens:The struggle seemed ridiculous.
The setting is a post-nuclear apocalyptic Earth where the remaining humans, numbering only in a few million, are divided between those who live a utopian life under the support of an advanced alien race from Vega and those who inhabit the wastelands under primitive conditions.
He gets tapped by his boss to organize an inspection of cultural resources and ecological status around the world for an important alien named Myshtigo, starting with Egypt.
Supposedly Zelazny intended there to be ambiguity over whether this is “realistic” science fiction tale of post-apocalypse recovery or a fantasy of a superhero enacting mythic themes as the god Pan. Either way, it was a well written, engaging, and satisfying tale for me.
I just re-read this classic by Roger Zelazny and I was very impressed.
The story is told by Conrad Nomikos (aka Konstantin Kallikanzaros and many others) a man of "indeterminate" age with a very colorful past that he'd rather not talk about.
Conrad is asked to give a tour to of Earth ruins to a Vegan VIP who may have an ulterior motive for taking such a tour.
Zelazny's imagination is amazing, his writing is excellent and Conrad is a great character.
Bottom-line, this is a true classic, a great story and a lot of fun.

First, I was under the impression (probably misguided) that this would be a kind of "touring the blasted wasteland of the post-nuclear world with a member of the alien Overlord race, who may or may not be trying to wipe out the survivors -- and Conrad is the only one standing in the way" book.
He says that the purpose of his visit is to write a travelogue, but it is entirely possible that the real reason the Vegan is here is to write finis to the Human race.So, I was kind of surprised to find that this is very much in the background for most of the story.
I feel like I read a book with every other sentence written in invisible ink.
The Earth is in bad shape after a three day nuclear exchange and most people have fled Earth for Vega where they are second class citizens.
Conrad, the immortal of the title, is tasked with escorting a Vegan on a tour of various Earth ruins, accompanied by several other people, most of which want the Vegan dead and the Earthlings on Vega to come home.
The characters were interesting, especially Conrad and Hasan, the assassin tasked with killing the Vegan.
The odd relationship beween Conrad and Hasan was probably my favorite part of the book.
Εκείνο που μου τράβηξε περισσότερο την προσοχή ήταν το εξώφυλλο του : μια εικόνα αμυδρά γνωστή.
Έκανα κάτι γέλια!Ένας γεννημένος Αμερικανός, από Πολωνό πατέρα και Ιρλανδό-Αμερικανίδα μητέρα, γράφει το 1966 ένα βιβλίο, με Έλληνα ήρωα και πολλά ιστορικά και μυθολογικά στοιχεία, χωρίς να έχει πατήσει ποτέ το πόδι του στην Ελλάδα.
Εσύ θα σβήσεις, αλλά οι λόφοι της Ελλάδας θα μείνουν, χωρίς ν' αλλάξουν, με τη μυρουδιά του καμένου κατσικίσιου κρέατος, με ανακατωμένο το κρασί και το αίμα, με μια γεύση από γλυκά αμύγδαλα, έναν δροσερό αέρα τη νύχτα και ουρανούς γαλάζιους όσο και τα μάτια των θεών την ημέρα.
It was clean and neat.The little metal plate on the door said:This suite was the headquarters of Konstantin Karaghiosis during the founding of the Radpol and much of the Returnist Rebellion.Inside, there was a plaque on the bedstead which read: Konstantin Karaghiosis slept in this bed.In the long, narrow front room I spotted one on the far wall.
What Roger Zelazny did best was short stories, but he certainly wrote a lot of novels too.
There was a period in the late 60s when his formula was to take a classic set of myths, and rework them as SF.
He did Hindu and Buddhist mythology in Lord of Light (very good), and the Egyptian gods in Creatures of Light and Darkness (dull).
This Immortal is an SF retelling of the Hercules legend, and quite decent.
It doesn't have the epic scope or the poetry of Lord of Light, but the Hercules character is sympathetic (he is also the narrator), and the story moves along nicely.
Zelazny in mythic romance mode, protag Conrad protecting his new bride Cassandra from the foggy foggy dew....Great stuff, and an immediate resonance for this reader, even after many decades away.
Published in an era when a complete novel was often well under 200 pp., or what today would be a long novella.
Why would I care?Because there's a GREAT FIGHT SCENE coming up between Hasan & Conrad!
But this one's right up there.History: first published (abridged) as a two-part series in F&SF, OCT-NOV 1965., Won Hugo for best novel, 1966 .
Bu yüzden okurun bu karmaşanın içinden eğlenmiş çıkması olası.Daha bahsedecek çok şey var ama ben de anlatırken karıştırdım, affedin, sizi kitaba dair karmaşık duygularla bırakıyorum.Çeviri ve düzelti eki:Kitabın çevirisi şahane, Sönmez Güven'in eli dili dert bulmasın.
s. 153Bu güzel karşılıkların yanında anlamadığım bir yerlileştirme vardı:Hasan adındaki roman kişisi Conrad'ı (çok) eskiden beri tanıyor ve ona Conrad yerine Karacı diyor.
Conrad o uzun ömründe bir çok isim almıştı ama Karacı ne demek?
Dolayısıyla Karacı gibi Türkçe'si de anlamlı bir karşılık yerine Karagi kullanılabilirdi.Off, buna mı taktın diyebilirsiniz, "işim gücüm yok" diye karşılık veririm.Kitabın düzeltisi de çok iyiydi, sanırım sadece üç yerde yanlış yazımla karşılaştım.
This Immortal takes place in a baroquely described Ruined Earth which has become a kind of theme-park for the Alien Vegans; in this shadowy realm of belatedness and human angst the Immortal Conrad Nomikos serves ostensibly as Arts Commissioner but turns out to be in a far more telling sense the curator (or Zoo-keeper) of the human enterprise for he closely resembles Herakles whose Labours the plot of the novel covertly replicates despite the US thriller idioms he uses in his personal speech.
The post-apoc setting and myth-building is fantastic enough to drown out the tiringly stoic and macho tone of the otherwise funny protagonist, but the overreliance on deus ex machina (I know, I know, I get the point in this "is it fantasy? is it sci-fi? is it myth?" novel, but still) and the cheesy and prolonged character wrap up dulled what could have been a perfect little novel.
This is the actual version which won the Hugo Award, and as much as I would have liked to find the full version, my library system didn't have it, so I had to settle for the abridged one, found in Volume 2 of the Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny: Power and Light.All that being said, I just finished the book, and I'm tired, but I still pulled myself out of bed and turned the computer on so I could write this review.
Thanks for all the great stories.[Re-reading September 21-24, 2013]Still an awesome book.
There's always a new tidbit to find, but it's also just a wonderful journey.
Zelazny poetically & subtly uses classical references to draw a 'fantastic' post-apocalyptic world.
On its face, the book is a good, straight SF story with a bit of PSI powers tossed into the radioactive mix.
Every sentence is read like the preceding one no matter what the action.Sometimes Bevine's steady voice really worked, though.
Especially on a re-read, it's easy to find the subtle references to the fantastic side.
(hide spoiler)] Nothing is particularly sure since it's obvious that the narrator is completely unreliable, an accomplished liar & forger, albeit for good reasons.
https://www.instagram.com/p/BoMTB3xH92WBu Ölümsüz'de büyük bir nükleer savaş sonrası dünyanın ve dünya halkının başına gelenler konu ediliyor.
Bir gün insanların çoğunlukla göç ettiği gezegenlerden bir yetkili dünyaya gelip bazı bölgeleri gezmeye karar veriyor ve anlatıcımız Conrad'ın da ona bu gezide rehberlik etmesi kararlaştırılıyor.
Conrad bir Dünya Devleti çalışanı, fakat o bundan çok daha fazlası.
Bizi bugün ilgilendiriyor." .Fakat bu kitapla ilgili tüm bu ilginç ve güzel ekstralara rağmen bazı sıkıntılarım var.
Neyse sonuç olarak birçok referansı anlamadığım için sürekli sözlük ve Google karıştırdım ve bu da beni kitaptan uzaklaştırdı.Oysa diyorum, kitapta (sık sık olmasa da, dozunda) dip not açıklamaları olsaydı belki çok daha güzel bir okuma olabilirdi.
Velhasıl büyük umutlarla başlamama rağmen benim için ortalama olan bir kitapla karşılaştım.
It has a basic---if epic---journey as its central plot, with only one truly interesting character.
But what a Kallikanzaros he turns out to be!Conrad, the narrator, comes back to the radioactive Earth to lead an alien Vegan on a tour of Mediterranean ruins.
The mutations and alien species introduced after the nuclear conflagration has made most of the world inhospitable.
The story draws from Prometheus Unbound, and even the Heart of Darkness---the main character is called Conrad, after all.
The interactions with other characters, such as the knife conversation with the assassin Hussan, are as cool as any pairing that came from the 60’s.This book takes science fiction literature into the literary realm.
To begin, this book should not be called This Immortal.
It's a terrible title, and by all accounts Zelazny himself preferred the name he used when he serialized the novel: ...And Call Me Conrad.
You can see why.Zelazny is remembered as one of SF's cleverest, most exciting writers.
His heroes are larger than life, the adventures they find themselves in are even bigger, and they're surrounded by richly imagined settings and supporting casts.
None of this matters.
...And Call Me Conrad is by no means a perfect novel.
The fun Zelazny had writing this is evident on every page.
It shared the Hugo with Dune the year it came out. While it was an entertaining book (I think it was Zelazny's first novel), it is NOT as good as Dune. Sorry.
Пост-апокалиптична фантастика, качеството е ясно от името на автора. 180-на страници могат да поберат в себе си: описанието на един много интересен свят; няколко интересни герои, които се развиват; сюжет с глобални мащаби; капка хумор. Който мисли, че не е така - нека прочете "Безсмъртният"!
Earth is now overrun by mutants who resemble creatures out of myth, and the main character, Conrad, appears to be an immortal and may even be a god.
He's a typical Zelazny main character: mysterious, complicated, immortal and superhuman but not invincible, and fundamentally heroic but kind of an asshole.All of the characters are interesting in this book, especially Conrad's friend, the assassin Hassan, and I particularly liked the dialog and the action scenes.
Zelazny has always been good at writing great fight scenes.The story wasn't perfect -- a lot of things were just dropped in without explanation, and it seemed a lot of plot points were just handwaved away.
Zelazny has a talent, an enviable talent, of braiding action, philosophy and humor into an airy but intricate dance that drags the reader, relentlessly, along blind corridors and sudden turnings until you end, hours or days later, bewildered, dazed, but a little wiser and much happier. This is rampant, chaotic, bacchanal among monster and men, in a ruined world, with all the terror implied, and still joyous and enchanting. I loved every moment, but then I knew I would.
Now Earth is a strange and dangerous place, fit only as a tourist attraction and a vacation spot for the Vegans.But some people still love Earth, including long-lived Conrad Nomikos, Commissioner for the Arts.
But even more interesting than Mishtigo’s plans for Earth is the nature of Conrad himself.
Who is he?This Immortal is a gorgeous novel and Conrad Nomikos makes a great hero, similar to Corwin from Zelazny’s later Amber Chronicles.
Every time I read Roger Zelazny, I remind myself that I should seek out more of his work.This Immortal takes place on a post-apocalyptic earth where "hot spots" are the lasting gift of a nuclear war and mutant humans who resemble creatures out of myth are reclaiming the land.
It's an exercise in recycling - building materials are needed elsewhere by the impoverished local population - but also an odd form of tribute; ultimately the film will be reversed to depict the building of the pyramid, to remind viewers of the past glory of human civilization.For those who appreciate vintage science fiction and post-apocalyptic SF in particular, or works that handle classical mythology in innovative ways, this short novel is well worth reading.
I have read that it is not as good as Dune, nor Zelazny's other Hugo winner, Lord of Light, but this is a good read.Starts off in confusion, but that is to be expected with a main character who is immortal and the victim of evil rumors - or are they true?
Zelazny's characters have solid motivations and personalities, interacting to form a great narrative.
the blue alien (and member of the earth's overlords) being escorted around parts of a post-apocalyptic earth.Before this I have only read short stories by Roger Zelazny, though the Chronicles of Amber sat on my shelf for many years.
Първият роман на Зелазни и един от моите най-любими(не че не ги харесвам всичките, дори съвместните).
Чудесна история, развиваща се в бъдещето.
Главният герой е подложен на редица изпитания, повтарящи до някъде херкулесовите подвизи.
Има мутирали чудовища, канибали, сатири, пророчества, разглобяване на пирамиди, меланхолични извънземни и роботи бойци.Авторът се закача много леко с древногръцките произведения, прави няколко реверанса към други класики и митологии.
Героите му(и второстепените) са много добре развити.
Светът, след няколко ядрени конфликта и не само, е страшно жив и ярък.
Финалът е като в древногръцка драма...Като порасна искам да стана Роджър Зелазни, друго не мога да кажа.
I have read this book countless times, and still I love it!Nomikos, how old are you?This tale takes us on a wild ride through a post-nuclear war earth, that has been ravaged by not only war, but also an alien species.Nomikos is the star of this show.
He moves slowly, until it is time to act.
I would encourage any reader of any age to hop on this wild ride so you can find out what fate has in store for "This Immortal"!!Zelazny is a frigging rock-star!
