https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6357708-sisters-red
Scarlett and Silas hunt together a lot and Rosie is the sidekick because despite being bitter that her sister is whole and beautiful, Scarlett really wants to keep her that way.The Fenris are more active because apparently there's a Potential werewolf who is in a cycle where he can be turned from a human to a soulless monster.
We've got a YA romance on our hands, guys, and that should distract you from noticing pesky little things like plot holes.Silas and Rosie start giving each other long, soulful gazes and touching each other in lingering ways.
(because, really, in nyc, who needs that many books about how to raise chickens?)teen paranormal romance.
two sisters, with three eyes between 'em, battle fenris with the help of a dashing woodsman...god, that sounds stupid.but it's actually really enjoyable.
when the sisters were young, they were attacked by a fenris - kind of like a werewolf, but not dependent upon the cycles of the moon, necessarily.
because, see, fenris are drawn to young girls.
it is a wonderful testament to sisters.i'm a little partial (short and stout) to fairy-tale retellings, but even without that setup, it is a pretty cool story about some kickass young ladies.
"I am confident, I am capable, and I will not wait to be rescued by a woodsman or a hunter. I will escape." 3.5Hmm, this is a very difficult book to rate. One one hand, it contains most of the elements I consider important in a good urban fantasy novel: tough heroines, nice love interest - but with the story focus being on bigger things than whether or not they'll get together, mean and nasty supernaturals, touch of grittiness... yet I still had a few problems. I thought Rosie was a very dull
One one hand, it contains most of the elements I consider important in a good urban fantasy novel: tough heroines, nice love interest - but with the story focus being on bigger things than whether or not they'll get together, mean and nasty supernaturals, touch of grittiness...
The first 100 pages are just your standard fairytale retelling stuff, bit of background information that draws parallels between this story and the tale of Red Riding Hood, two sisters become hunters to avenge their grandmother's death and also to protect other girls from falling prey to the fenris.
But I found Scarlett - the older sister - to be the far better and interesting and just well-rounded character.
Me gustó.
Además, resulta increíble que cada encuentro pasara inadvertido para el resto de la gente que deambulara por la ciudad.Sin embargo, me gustó mucho como la autora planteó la relación de las dos hermanas y, a su vez, la de ellas con Silas, fundamental para la trama y sobre todo para el final.
También me gustó cómo va dando vuelta el argumento para que lo que pareciera previsible, después no lo fuera y después… Bueno, nada más.No es lo mejor que he leído en el género, pero fue una lectura que disfruté bastante.
Because sometimes writers try to have strong, kickass female characters, but only end up with the kick-ass part and leave the strong one out.To put it in another way, whenever I read books like Sisters Red, I feel like the writer wanted something like this:But end up with something like this:In other words, they try to make a badass character but they think that the only thing that makes them badass is the fact that they...
I could tell you that when the next door neighbour, a woodsman-hunter named Silas comes back to town that I knew Rosie would fall for him and that their story was actually quite sweet.I could definitely tell you that part of what makes me like the book to begin with is the fact that making the two girls the ones who go after the werewolves to kill them is rather an empowering take on the original tale.I could tell you all that.But what I really want to tell you is: when I hit page 108 (of the ARC) I went nuts.
Best red riding hood retelling ive ever read!
I loved the wolf hunting (it reminded me of supernatural).
And the two sisters relationship is strained and broken but still so strong.
I loved the semi love triangle and the friendship between the three of them,So strong and connected and secretive all at once.
Alot of it actually reminds me of supernatural which might be why i like it so much!
Looking for the potential and...
plot twist.I also really like both points of view.
Each sisters POV kept me entertained and i enjoyed reading both (but i liked Rosies a bit better).
I just enjoy it quite as much as I did As You Wish.I loved how Pearce portrayed Rosie and Scarlett's world...
And Pearce's writing was top notch just as it was in As You Wish.But I guess that is where my love for this novel ended.
Scarlett started to grow on me a little bit there in the end, but I was still bitter with her from all of her crap at the beginning!The romance between Silas and Rosie was something that I did enjoy!
And I almost wish Scarlett might have had a little bit of love to soften her rough edges.....
Le sigh. This book should be called Sisters Miss The Point.
The beginning was good, then I got impatient and it just felt like Rosie was whining a little to me.
And the age thing with her and Silas.
A lot of people look older than their age, does that mean that it's okay?
And I felt so bad for Scarlett.
Jeez, just because she's scarred that makes it okay for guys not to be interested in her.
I felt cheated for her.
In that regard, I was rather disappointed.I can't even read through the entire thing fully.
I keep skimming it and finally reading the end.
I loved it!After my sister threatened my life if I didn't read it (funny how that works, eh?
I was totally engrossed with the characters and world, but utterly bored with the plot.
I LOVE sister stories!
This maybe because I have a sister, so therefore I know when the relationship is written right.
It felt natural and right, even though it tore at the feels!
I love how, in the prologue,  The Price is Right  TV show is playing while the wolf attacks.
Turning wolves into werewolves has been done a billion times, but I loved making the sisters tough and hunters.
LOVE EVERYTHING.
Read This Review & More Like It At Ageless Pages ReviewsFrom the second page of this book when a man's smile simultaneously faded and grew more forced, to the 321st page when the sister's entangled their arms around each other and sniffed each other's hair, I hated every single thing about this book.
Hoping your best friend dies because he got a girlfriend falls FIRMLY into the second category.
I had heard the book had a questionable scene involving Scarlett, Silas, and the "Dragonfly girls" [club goers].
Not only was the scene pretty upsetting, with both main characters expressing some disgusting ideas about women, the entire book was.
And they are completely mean and nasty and gritty and...
Oh, they are just your typical mean bad wolves.If you want me to describe this book in one sentence then this is what I would have said:This book is action - packed.
She is passionate and dedicated to ridding the world of the Fenris.
Her sister Rosie is not so passionate like her sister, though I must say she is a very good hunter.
If you don't mind a little bit of gory werewolf killing then it's a good book to read; a good book for a light read.
-"People might get the wrong idea, a pretty girl like you alone on a corner like this."My lips curve into a grin as I draw the hatchet from my belt.
"I'm not that kind of girl."  Based on the prologue and first chapter I thought this book would have ended up as at least a four-star rating.It starts out dark and sultry, but when the reader is introduced to sixteen-year old Rosie the story loses its edge and the plot crumbles.
At times it felt middle-grade, and though I understand the intention for Rosie's character, I didn't like the route the story took as a result.I expected lust, violence, and mythology.
Let me start off by saying that I enjoyed the first 1/3 or so of this book. But then stupid things started happening (repetitive action scenes, insta-love which seriously annoyed me... ugh.)
Her sister Scarlett is physically disfigured and emotionally tormented from a Fenris attack when they were children and has made it her life’s work to defend mankind, yet Rosie’s main concern throughout most of the book is cooking, grocery shopping, and her blossoming romance with Silas.Their romance is thrust upon the reader from the moment they meet with little explanation as to WHY they are suddenly so in love with each other.
You can’t help but draw the conclusion that the moral of this story is that beauty is everything and, in the end, Scarlett is punished for being disfigured.Verdict: DI wish I could muster something more positive to say about Sisters Red, but I just couldn’t get into this one at all.
También me gustó mucho ver todos estos elementos tan familiares modernizados.Jackson Pearce recrea a los hombres lobo tomando elementos de varias historias populares y culturas, y a la vez consigue darles un toque moderno que los hace encajar perfecto en la historia.Desde el principio  Rojo Feroz  tiene un  tono vibrante, oscuro y peligroso  que aumenta y desceinde a lo largo de la historia a un ritmo perfecto.
Fue bastante oscuro, cosa que me encantó sobre todo tratándose de un retelling de la Caperucita Roja, si tomamos en cuenta la historia original (y no la de Disney, por favor).Disfruté mucho de la atmósfera construida, pero mis favoritas fueron las escenas de acción.
Me gusto, aunque hubo ciertas cosas que no fueron de mi agradoUn libro entretenido
(view spoiler)[The romantic part-Rosie is 16 and Silas is 21...Silas being interested in Scarlett first adds nothing to the story either.
I also don't like that Silas encourages Rosie to go behind her sister's back.
(She's young and has been sheltered by her sister so I don't blame her, but I'm an older sister so maybe that's why this all pissed me off) (hide spoiler)] Also, how long can they really survive by pawning off stuff?Likes: I like Scarlett, I think it's very easy to understand why she's so motivated to hunt.
Whereas I have only heard good things about Jackson Pearce's debut, As You Wish, Sisters Red has received mixed reviews.A cruel attack of a Fenris, a soulless wolf-man craving young women's blood, has destroyed the lives of the two March sisters Scarlett and Rosie.
There is a lot of hunting, the three run into Fenris in the most common situations, but otherwise the plot doesn't really move forward.All in all, an interesting take on the classic fairytale Little Red Riding Hood with lovely characters.
(view spoiler)[If your plot revolves around a prophecy about a male, make sure you have more than one male character to keep people guessing.
(hide spoiler)] It's not fun to watch characters go on and on for 2/3 of the book trying to figure out something you already have.
Her characters had potential (oh noooo I said it again), but the love story was hard to watch.
It just felt like we were stuck in a boring box doing the same things over and over.
First let me explain that a wonderful friend shared her ARC copy of Sisters Red, so I had the pleasure of reading prior to its release date on June 2, 2010.I often think that re-told fairy tales can go only one of two ways: slightly dull or brilliantly twisted.
Sisters Red is definitely in the latter category.Take the tale of Little Red Riding Hood and turn it around into a story about sibling bonds and rivalry.
Then you'll begin to grasp the wonderful story Jackson Pearce wrote.As part of the new twist on the story, Jackson's wolves are good-looking men who prey on young girls.
well, I dove right into this book!Sister Red is obviously about Red Riding Hood..
...and now I want to watch an episode from that show!Well I loved that this was a dual POV from the sisters, Scarlett and Rosie.
That name makes me think of Cinder and that wonderful series <3 Either way, I love their different views and reading about their strained family relationship.
I would never go, personally, but I did like reading about it.I could've done without the "love triangle" but that's mostly because I despise them.
I loved everything about this book.
Sister Red is the modern day version of the timeless storybook; Little Red Riding Hood, only in this re-telling, it's much darker, deeper and desperate.We begin our tale with two sisters, Scarlett and Rosie March.Scarlett is devoted to the hunt, or more like obsessed, given that seven years before, a Fenris stole the lives of there grandmother and left her with countless battle scars, including an eye.
Can there be time for both the hunt and maybe even...love?This is the second book I've read from Pearce, the first one being As you Wish, which in my opinion was simply perfect.Pearce has once again captured my hearts and soul through colorful characters, an ingenues plot and impeccable writing.
This is quite a special little book, from the depth of emotion felt by the characters to the attention to detail of their lives and surroundings.I really enjoyed the relationships between the characters, Scarlett, Rosie and Silas.
My favourite is Scarlett who protected her sister from a wolf at the price of disfigurement.
Her inner pain and anguish over this is palpable and I felt for her so much.The werewolves in Sisters Red are not pretty or romantic, once turned the soul is ripped from the body to reveal an evil creature with no emotion and no remorse for killing.
Jackson Pearce's dark retelling and continuation of Little Red Riding Hood is really good: Excellently written, cleverly adapted and highly original.
It's not the book, it's me: As I passed the first-third-mark I sensed that I was feeling more and more depressed and my sympathy for both sisters overshadowed my pleasure in reading the story.
I had to decide between continuing to read later and making a clean cut and chose the latter.
I could not abandon the book without peeking at the climax and the solution, though.
Sisters Red by Jackson Pearce delivers a perfectly crafted, suspenseful modern twist on a famous fairy tale.
Pearce does not miss a beat when it comes to blending all the right elements to keep the reader engaged and riveted as two sisters, who are committed to protecting the world of the dangerous Fenris, risk what it takes to fight for what they believe in.
Scarlett and Rosie’s sisterly devotion mixed with Silas’ bond to the girls was a captivating read that kept me engaged with page after page of action packed moments.Great read for those who enjoy their paranorm slightly twisted and full of dark and dangerous adventures.
I enjoyed Sisters Red and highly recommend this modern telling of an unforgettable tale.
“When they attack her, I scream until my voice is hoarse so I don't have to hear the shredding sounds.”   ****3.5 stars**** That may be one of my favorite quotes of all time. Plot synopsis: (view spoiler)[Sisters Red is darker retelling of "Little Red Riding Hood" about Scarlett and Rosie March, sisters who hunt the deadly werewolf-esque Fenris responsible for taking Scarlett's eye and killing their grandmother. Alongside Silas the woodsmen, they hunt to protect young girls from a gruesome fate
Plot synopsis: (view spoiler)[Sisters Red is darker retelling of "Little Red Riding Hood" about Scarlett and Rosie March, sisters who hunt the deadly werewolf-esque Fenris responsible for taking Scarlett's eye and killing their grandmother.
(hide spoiler)] There is one thing about this Sisters Red that really bothers me concerning the ages of Rosie and Silas.
(hide spoiler)] You're probably thinking "Oh, love is just a number.", but it bothers me because there is a point where Rosie herself wonders why Silas wants to be with her:
But one thing I will say it absolutely awesome about this book is Scarlett and Rosie's relationship.
Rosie, younger, less scarred (physically and emotionally) is devoted to her sister and their shared cause—yet she feels the tug of the outside world, and an attraction to the March sisters’ close friend and hunting partner, Silas the woodsman, in a way that Scarlett just doesn’t.
The fight sequences are OK, but those are never why I come to a book in the first place.Sisters Red is a great, interesting way to take “Little Red Riding Hood” and transpose it into the present day.
I love Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
And this book is like a great, top-notch episode of Buffy, sans vampires, but rife with werewolves.
But, let me share with you why Scarlett March (and Rosie March, though to a lesser extent) is a way better superhero than Buffy.
Scarlett is strong, but there's no super powers here.
Scarlett has years of consistent, brutal training and a powerful will to destoy evil.
Scarlett has been marked by the werewolves.
And that's what makes her great.This book will have high appeal for Buffy and Twilight fans.
