https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6852374-hero-at-large
This must rank in the top 5 most asinine stories I've ever had the misfortune to attempt to read. It doesn't even deserve the compliment of bothering to explain why I thought it was so bad. Audiobook, borrowed from my library via overdrive, read by CJ Critt, who did a pretty good job, considering the material she had to work with. I gave it 7 minutes longer than my 20 minute minimum before DNFing.
This book seemed like typical Janet Evanovich. Cheap laughs. The MCs are all gorgeous. Complicated relationships. An older female relative who uses the word pip. I found many similarities to Stephanie Plum. This was light and fluffy. However, it was also highly improbable, but it made my morning fly by. So 3 stars.
Since he is from out of town and can't drive, he ends up staying at her house with her seven-year-old daughter and her elderly Aunt Edna.
Ken like's Chris, her daughter, her aunt, and her house.
Ken makes a deal that he will rent the downstairs portion of the house and give them access to his truck since Chris' car can't be fixed.
It's a great deal for him since he also has unlimited access to Chris, a woman who fascinates him.This was Janet Evanovich's first book, originally published under the pseudonym: Steffie Hall.
I just broke your arm after you tried to help fix my car!" (handsome stranger who stopped to figure out why she was broken down) "Well, please drive me to the hospital so I can get it taken care of."Pretty girl: "I don't know you, but since my car is broken I'll drive yours..
but I don't really like you because you look so handsome I'm drooling and trying not to show it --too bad all my thoughts show on my face so you already know that--"Handsome stranger: "You're a terrible driver.
Unless you really like Aunt Edna characters.
I remember loving all of these light little romances from Evanovich when I read them years ago.
I loved the hero and the heroine's auntie.
I mean the entire time.
I liked her narration of the hero, though.
The actual story...kinda fun but totally ridiculous as the hero stops to help the heroine when her car breaks down and winds up having his arm broken and they decide he'll move into her home with her,her aunt and her daughter while he recovers and they'll use his car during that time since her's is a junker now.
Didn't do it for me this time around.
I read One For the Money, the first Stephanie Plum book and didn't quite connect with it, but I decided to give Evanovich another try and I enjoyed this fun, fizzy little story.
When Chris Nelson’s car gives up the ghost on the Little River Turnpike, she’s grateful for the assistance that Ken Callaghan gives, and really, breaking his arm was completely accidental.
But when her Aunt Edna invites Ken to rent their downstairs rooms, she is not happy.
Ken is far too good looking, Chris is far too attracted to him, and after her ex, young Lucy’s dad, left her, she’s steering clear of relationships.
Ken seems to be the perfect man: Lucy loves him, Aunt Edna wants Chris to marry him, he’s kind and thoughtful…..
Then Chris discovers that Ken has not been entirely honest with her.
OK, I don't normally read very many romances, but I'm a huge fan of Evanovich's series about Stephanie Plum, so when I saw some of her romances listed at the library I decided, "Why not?" and gave a couple a try.
This book is hysterical!
Almost from the very first page I was laughing and I didn't really stop until the book was over and I realized I had grown to like the characters and wanted them to stick around!
Like I said....hysterical!
It's a 'must read' for anyone who enjoys romance and/or comedy and/or Janet Evanovich's wicked sense of humor!
3 StarsI have seen that it has been a popular read lately so I thought I would try it. While reading this book I thought was a cute little book to read but it was a ok book for me. I wouldn't read it over and over. I think one time reading is good for me with this book. I guess I was expecting a more interesting book that was a little bit longer. Overall it was ok and a cute book to read.
Cute little beach read
I made it a whopping six pages into this book before I noped my way out of it.
That was good - men who drove trucks always knew a lot about car engines" - comes up and offers to help.
Let me hold the flashlight for you!"- He declares her engine to be screwed, then looks at her ringless fingers and tells her "I think you need a new man in your life".
He then follows up with "Someone who takes care of your...mechanical needs." That was the point at which I rage quit this book.
I love Janet Evanovich's romances, they are so funny.
I love them because the people in them seem real with real problems and they are easy to relate to.
This one is probably one of my favorites, I always enjoy romances that involve a single parent and this one was no exception and Evanovich always seems to find a way to include one crazy old lady into the mix!The cover shows a dog and a rabbit and honestly I thought that would be part of the story.
This was a fast, easy read.
Brilliant and funny!!
Pretty good. I laughed (quite a bit), huffed a little, smiled, and had a good time. Good characters, emotions, a good story line, and great ending. Sweet, strong and fun. Food for the anytime read and wanting something on the lighter side of life. Enjoy
quite possibly one of the worst books I have "read" (listened to it on audio on a long drive/had no other book otherwise would have been turned off). There was absolutely nothing I liked about the main character. She was a whiny martyr of the worst kind. THANKS PANDORA!!!
A humorous romance that shows the beginnings of a few elements that will show up in the later Plum series. Although not as complex as the Plum stories, it is a quick enjoyable read.
DNF about halfway because I could no longer stand the characters. I would summarize my while-reading updates here to explain but blech forget it. It’s like someone took an outline and didn’t even bother to make a stock hero into a person, other than making him CREEPY AS ALL GET OUT which apparently is what our stock heroine likes. And some skating info.Even C J Critt’s excellent narration couldn’t save this one.ETA: autocorrect turned “stock hero” into “stick hero” and “stock heroine” into “tick heroine” and I must say, autocorrect may be on to something here.
This was the first book that Janet Evanovich had published; it was ok, but I'm glad she continued to write so that Stephanie Plum could be created. Girl's car breaks down; handsome guy happens to help her; his arm gets broken by the car hood falling down; he wiggles his way into girl's heart. I liked Ken Callahan but Chris Nelson left something to be desired. Also, I couldn't help but think that Aunt Edna must be related to Grandma Murzer somehow: both characters were pips!Go Cards! L1C4!!
This was a nice standalone romance, one of Evanovich's earlier works.
It's nice, it's sweet, but there's no real oomph to the story which I expect (and get) from Evanovich's current writings.
He's really a millionaire, but Chris meets him on the side of the road when his truck breaks down.
I often found it frustrating, but Ken's patience and support win her over (and kept me invested in the romance as well).
Critt did a great job of narration, and I liked her voice and inflections very much, but her voicing for Chris made her seem older and not exactly how I pictured her.
It appears to have been updated a bit from its original release (Ken has a cell phone that he lets Chris borrow), but not much.
It reads like on old romance, but is cute.
Aunt Edna is a predecessor to Grandma Mazur and there is a big dog named Bob in it as well.
So, once again, we can see the beginnings of the Plum clan.Chris meets Ken on the side of the road after her car breaks down.
Chris doesn't want to like him, but does.
A cute read for the beach, but nothing new and really nothing exciting.
Clean. Squeaky. Heroine and hero... Both are squeaky clean. So there's nothing wrong with this story. It was nice. A lovely little romance. But it's more like something I'd have enjoyed when I was a teenager. Even though I avoided stories with kids in them. I don't know why there is a dog and a rabbit on this cover. That makes no sense whatsoever.
cute, fast, predictable...and I'm good with that!
Just a cute, fun, quick read. At 24, my car died because I didn't know about the oil thing! Naïve? yes!
There's something about the male romantic lead being too good to be true, but these novels go way beyond that ideal man fantasy.
Sure romance novels have a couple falling in love in no time, but this one has him moving in the day he met her (sure as a "tenant") and they're engaged in three weeks.
Sure there's the lust factor, but let's be realistic!
I want a character I can actually fall in love with whereas these heroes come on too strong and are just off-putting.
These novels do not work for me and after trying two, I won't be reading any more.
2 starsMeh, Ken didn't send me.

Single mother Chris (a skating coach) was on the way to the rink one day when her car broke down on the highway.
While I thought the reader C.J. Critt was one of the better voices I have listened to in audio books, I just couldn’t get into the story.
The decisions made by the characters (mostly Chris) seemed so unrealistic that less than half way through the 1 disc I knew that this book just wasn’t for me.
Although I didn’t feel much of a connection with Chris (or any of the characters for that matter) I did find her career as a skating coach to be interesting.
I have read a couple of others and they follow the same...woman meets man, silly things happen, they fall in love, and ring is then given.This story follows the same line.
Through all the little flip-flops that her heart does, and from the gentle prodding of Aunt Edna, who lives with Chris for the most part, Chris and Ken get back together, the ring back on her finger, and they live happily ever after.It is not a horrible book and I always enjoy a good romance--fall in love--all over feel good story.
Adding to a broken car, when Ken Callahan stopped to help her, she accidentally broke his arm.
Having a broken arm was not something that Ken had planned for his week, but his decision to go with the flow of things led him to living in Chris’ basement and then a broken toe also.
The surprising attraction they both felt for each other grew even through the eggs on the floor and burnt dinners, but will it be enough to overcome the heartbreak that Chris expected because of past hurts.This is another of Janet Evanovichs re-release, this one was originally published in 1987 but for the most part, you can’t tell that it is out of time.
characters unrealistic, plot scenario completely mental.
Only real issue was the whole drama about him really being a wealthy, successful business man.
I felt like the characters (who i thought were slightly annoying *ahem I am talking to you Chris with your whiney ways*) were hypocrite.
said one thing about their personalities but then they were nto that way at all.
But Heck when you pick up chick lit fluff you cannot be mad when you get chick lit fluff.SO like i said I picked this up knowing what it was going into it.
2.25 starsChris is a figure skating coach.
When she has car trouble, construction worker Ken stops to help her out, but she manages to break his arm.
At one time, I enjoyed the G-rated romance genre, but it's definitely not my thing anymore.
The characters were stereotypical romance novel male/female.
I should have been counting the number of times I either rolled my eyes, or the words "ridiculous" or "pathetic" went through my head.
I'm also a figure skating fan, so I think that may be part of what encouraged me to pick it up to begin with...
