https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239186.Isaac_s_Storm
growing up in little rhody, we had some hurricanes, and they were no big deal, so when i moved here to new york, i kind of scoffed anytime there was a hurricane warning and people were out in panic-mode hogging all the bread and candles, especially when so many super-serious storm warnings resulted in nothing.actual photograph of me during hurricane irene in 2011, wind whipping my tendrils:and its aftermath:my undramatic experience with hurricanes stripped them of fear, and while i was completely aware of how destructive they could be in certain locations, i was always very dismissive whenever the warnings came and i was like, “rain and wind - BFD!” and then sandy hit, and while i live in a borough of high elevation, and our biggest loss was this tree:it was a BFD for a lot of new york.
In fact the book is almost foreshadowing in that it was published just a couple of years before Hurricane Katrina.
The writing in this book is not nearly as tuned as it is in The Devil in the White City, but Larson is still better at this than nine of ten nonfiction writers.
Side note: when Katrina hit, several talking heads on CNN, FOX and MSNBC repeated the myth that there had never been a deadlier hurricane in the US.
The next day, they apologized for a factual mistake, and started talking about Galveston, Texas and the events of this book.
Unprepared families were scrubbed away like leaf litter in a gutter while others in stronger structures could only gape in horror.Larsen explains in detail that there actually were meteorologists back in the day, but the basic and scant information they received left them deciding on their own whether to raise the flag for panic or to appease public concerns.
Trains washed away with passengers still aboard, and the bloated dead were left unburied for weeks, months, stuck in the shambles of splintered buildings and shattered woodlands.This is the first Larsen book I ever read, and because of the quality of his research and the beauty in his writing, Ive purchased everything he has penned since.
That, at least, is the point I took away from Erik Larson’s Isaac’s Storm, about the Galveston Hurricane of September 8, 1900.
Accordingly, no seawall was built.Isaac’s Storm tells the story of Isaac Cline, the man at the center of this folly, and of the horrible consequences that entailed when people got too comfortable in their certainty.
The subtitle of Larson’s book is A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History.
The events of his life are sketchy (many of his papers were destroyed in the hurricane) and Larson has to rely heavily on Isaac’s memoir, which self-servingly makes him the hero of his own story.
Erik Larson has the mind of a dedicated historian and the heart of a yarn-spinning storyteller.
It should come as no surprise really, as Larson has demonstrated himself as one of America's most unique and readable historians.
Still, I can't help but to feel awed whenever I read a book about a 100-year-old storm that keeps me so on the edge of my seat.
Larson holds a magnifying glass over the heads of many of Galveston's real-life inhabitants, of both those who perished and those who survived, to create a real sense of tension in his book.
An incredible book and a must-read.
In "Isaac's Storm" Larson takes us to a thriving seaside city in Texas circa 1900, to a time when people felt they could 'control' nature.
He paints the story of how the infamous hurricane that hit Galveston, Texas, on September 8th of that year devastated not just a whole community but also destroyed people's faith in man's ability to accurately predict the weather.
Not only does Larson take us back to this time and place and through the storm where we literally feel like we're in the 'eye' of the hurricane with its victims and survivors, but also in the end, in hindsight, it's a lesson in how storms, real and figurative, can blow through and sideswipe the most cautious and unassuming of any of us.It's a reminder of how the unexpected is always upon us.
You will get that too, but first you must build up to the storm and understand the politics dictating the actions of the Weather Bureau.
There is another central theme to this book, and it is related to the title - Isaac's Storm.
Soon an army of great thunderheads was marching west along the horizon, watched closely by the captains of British ships sailing down the African coast with troops for the Boer War. Seventy to eighty such waves drifted from West Africa into the Atlantic every summer, some dangerous, most not.
Drawing on a great deal of denial and no small amount of racism, the Americans condemned Cuban forecasts (which were also understated, but not nearly so heinously) as "emotional," avoiding almost as a matter of faith "poetic" terms like "eye" (of the storm) or even "Hurricane." The storm hit Galveston, Texas, dead-on, wiping out a third of the structures of the city and an estimated 8,000 residents.
As much as possible of the narrative is told through the eyes of Isaac Cline, chief of the Galveston weather bureau.As always, Erik Larson writes beautifully, at times brilliantly, and bases his non-fiction on vast and impeccable sources.
How wrong can you be, after picking the book up for the third or fourth time and actually taking the time to see what the story was about I had to read it.
The author, Erik Larson, presents a gripping and terrible account of the events leading up to the destruction on Galveston on the 8th of September 1900 by one of the deadliest hurricanes in America's history.
I really didn't want this story to finish, it was a great account and the only fault I could find was a lack of photographs.
Overall this is a great book and well worth the time to read.
The 1900 hurricane played a large part in that and "Issac's Storm" details what happened on September 8.
In particular I kept waiting to come back to Rabbi Cohen and his family, but we never see them again after pages 155-158 (paperback edition)Once again ,thanks to the Internet, and several Texas based historical societies, I was able to learn what happened to the Cohen family (they all survived and prospered) as well as many others mentioned in passing.
I live in Idaho so hurricanes aren't really a problem, but it would make a nice read if you're at the beach during a garden-variety tropical storm.
This was not my favorite, but it sure puts you exactly within that time, place, cognition of what was happening, and all the associative materials about the then current belief system upon the strength, occasion, or worst possibilities for any TX coast hurricane having a devastating outcome.
Having to admit I love living close to water- give me an inland lovely lake any time.
Not that it is always gentle- but water weight moving on the ocean's scale even within short time periods is human structure failure.
Fantastic book.
As always, Erik Larson does a superb job with this true story about the hurricane that hit Galveston, Texas USA in 1900, and killed over 6000 people.
Isaac Cline is employed by the national Weather Bureau in Galveston, and the book shows just how he helped, and hindered, the handling of the storm.
You'll get an intimate look at the science of weather, political maneuverings in various departments, and an hour-by-hour record of the events which happened to the folks who lived, or died, on that day.If you like history brought back to life, you'll love this book.4 Stars = It touched my heart, and/or gave me much food for thought.
As with all of Erik Larson's books, this one is well-researched and takes the facts and blends them with personal stories. Fans of the author will find much to enjoy.

Isaac Cline, the chief meteorologist at the Galveston, Texas office of the U.S. Weather Bureau, was a man of science and believed no storm could do serious harm to the city of Galveston, a growing city destined for a great future.
The Weather Bureau had science and technology.
The Weather Bureau predicted a storm that would head out to the Atlantic.In Galveston on the night of September 7, 1900 Isaac Cline notices the approaching storm and begins to feel uneasy.
Often times, especially early in the story, the author spends a great deal of time explaining the science of weather, hurricanes, cyclones, wind, etc.
I had been dutifully reminded and ever more respectful that we are always at the mercy of Mother Nature.On September 8, 1900, Isaac Cline was Galveston's meteorologist on the day of the worst hurricane disaster to strike in American history.
Yet he and other notable experts in the field such as his boss Willis Moore, Chief U.S. Weather Bureau ignored first warnings from hurricaneologists in Cuba that a tropical cyclone was likely headed in their direction - Galveston.
It was one of the darkest days in American history.
It was the day that " Galveston became Atlantis."
I became a fan of Erik Larson after reading Devil In The White City.
Since Erik Larson loves to give a lot of background details I had a hard time getting into the book (a problem I also had with Devil in the White City).
But I was surprised that when the hurricane actually hit I found it to be not so much exciting as it was extremely sad.
Of course Devil In The White City was sad as well (being that it centered around a murderer) but every other chapter was filled with the hope and excitement of the fair and the rise of Chicago.
They are all dead now, the hurricane killed 6,000 people more than a hundred years ago, but their suffering was real, families were blotted out entirely, people that would be great-grandchildren now, never existed because in disasters its just as much about luck as it is skills---- except for when it comes to preparedness.
IN all of the disaster stories that I have read this year there was a very strong pattern of people feeling that they were terribly unsafe, moving to where they felt safer, and saving their own lives.
I guess not much politically has changed and yet with all out modern advances, we still have such a time getting the weather right.Isaac Cline, the meteorologist for the Galveston area put up with the bureaucracy of the governmental agency.
Thinking that weather could be predicted was a new notion at the time but one that the agency thought was humanly possible.
However, as often as not, nature can't be predicted and the worst storm ever bringing with it the worst natural disaster ever occurred on September 8, 1900.
The storm slammed into Galveston wiping out most structures and causing the death of at least 10,000 people.
The death and destruction described by survivors of the 1900 hurricane over the island city of Galveston is terrifying.
More people perished in Galveston than in any previous U.
Wind gusts of 200 miles an hour generating pressure of thirty tons slammed against the wall of the houses.
The hurricane had travelled 800 miles and its flow was focused directly at the city of Galveston.
Galveston became Atlantis.
His boss Willis Moore would not permit unauthorized messages and therefore Isaac was kept from alerting headquarters in Washington of the coming storm's severity.
Eric Larson's research into the hurricane dubbed Isaac's Storm excels.
The first “intimation” of the true extent of the disaster, Benjamin recalled, “came when the body of a child floated into the station.” Doesn't that send a chill down your spine? The true story of the 1900 Galveston hurricane is told in the dramatic, gripping style I am coming to love. Erik Larsen's Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History is superb. His description of the storm's progression and finally hitting Galveston is riveting. Having gone through a hurricane
The first “intimation” of the true extent of the disaster, Benjamin recalled, “came when the body of a child floated into the station.”
Doesn't that send a chill down your spine? The true story of the 1900 Galveston hurricane is told in the dramatic, gripping style I am coming to love. Erik Larsen's Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History is superb. His description of the storm's progression and finally hitting Galveston is riveting. Having gone through a hurricane before, Larsen has convinced me not to tempt Mother Nature again.
It tells the story of Isaac Cline, the leading man for the Weather Bureau in Galveston.
In 2008, in my son's first year at Texas A&M, Hurricane Ike came to Texas via Galveston.
This is what happened to the A&M campus in Galveston, as recorded by Wikipedia: "In preparation of Hurricane Ike, Texas A&M University at Galveston closed on Wednesday, September 10, 2008, at 5 p.m. and evacuation was ordered.
Ike made U.S. landfall at Galveston, Texas, on September 13 at 2:10am.
After the hurricane, Houston became the leader and Galveston became a vacation resort.
This Katrina class or stronger hurricane hit this city with the people having no knowledge or warning of the intensity and power these types of storms can unleash.The book loosely follows Isaac Cline and his brother who were the weather observers working for the newly formed National Weather Bureau during this tragic event.The beginning of the book has a general history of severe weather recorded throughout time and the world.
They knew hurricanes in the Atlantic are generally spawned in the tropical Atlantic ocean where the water is warm and warm winds blowing off northern Africa coast and hurricanes generally took a northwesterly direction toward the West Indies and the eastern U.S. seacoast.
This is an historical account of the devastating hurricane that destroyed Galveston, Texas on September 8, 1900.
Working with what by modern standards would be relatively crude instruments, the Bureau tried, and failed to map and predict the path of the storm.
In the beginning, the story gets a bit bogged down with the history of the Weather Bureau and some of the meteorological details of the storm.
You have already started to care about these people and the city of Galveston, and you know what's going to happen.
The maps he did include were crude and barely useful.
It’s hard to rate a book 4 (“I really liked it”) stars when its contents are so disturbing.
It feels like this book was needed in order to finally do journalistic justice to the hurricane that leveled Galveston in September 1900—because goodness knows Isaac Cline’s own accounts, which increasingly exaggerated his heroism over time, did not.
With the weather bureau saying that Saturday would be ‘fair; fresh, possibly brisk, northerly winds on the coast’ of East Texas, who would have looked for the most destructive hurricane of modern times on that coast on that date?”Almost no one, apparently.
As others have said, the first third is pretty dry scientific stuff. Looking back I made the same comment about Thunderstruck. It's good to reach out beyond your comfort zones and learn something (which I do with all of Larson's books.) How sad that some survivors of the storms were then bitten by snakes!
Chosen as the protagonist of this event the author selected Isaac Cline the chief meteorologist at the Galveston, Texas office of the U.
Cline was confident in his reading of the weather signs and equipment and relied on information he received from the bureau's central office in Washington, D.C. But when it comes to man vs.
The book gives us not only the story of Isaac Cline and this hurricane but also the government offices and the men in charge of distributing vital information.
I highly recommend Erik Larson's books they are always thoroughly researched and well written.
Somewhere, a butterfly opened its wings.” If you find meteorology, history, natural-catastrophes, and human interest stories fascinating, “Isaac’s Storm” makes for captivating reading.
From various weather-phenomena facts to the inception of the Weather Bureau to the 1900 hurricane that nearly wiped Galveston Texas off the map, this book held my attention.
The focus turns to September 1900, Galveston, Texas - Isaac Cline’s assigned weather reporting station.
The Boeckers stood in their bedroom holding each other close as the wind peeled the house away .
and this should be written in flaming letters everywhere.” - Dr. Isaac Cline
Picked this one from my non-fiction shelves the other day.
I believe Mr. Larson is also the author of "Devil in the White City," which I read and enjoyed a couple of years ago.
THAT was quite a day ...
Then, another one came in a few days later.
I get the feeling at times that the author is doing a bit too much backstory.
It seems a bit like padding.
After reading this I can see that my experience with Hurricane Carol(Category 3) in 1954 was kind of low-key compared to the doozie that the unfortunate citizens of Galveston suffered through(Category 4).
But then, the hurricane that destroyed Galveston was the most deadly disaster to ever strike the United States (and still is).
Larson brings the drama to life while conveying the calm of ignorance and the unbelievable loss afterwards.
The personal stories really brought it to life.
I was lucky to hear Larson speak when he was on the book tour.
(I couldn't help but think of this book in 2008 with Hurricane Ike bearing down on Galveston, yet again.)
