https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6243900-the-five-jars
Be warned, there might be possible spoilers in this review.....What did I just read? This was a super trippy story that involved drug taking on an “Alice In Wonderland” scale. And there was also an object in this story that could be seen as a prediction of our modern computer tablets.And the funny thing is, is that it is a children’s fantasy story.Lastly, this story is so weird, I couldn’t give it a rating.
Inédita hasta ahora en español, nos llega ‘Los cinco frascos’, pequeña novela infantil de fantasía concebida para su pupila de doce años Jane McBryde.‘Los cinco frascos’ (The Five Jars, 1922) comienza con un paseo, en el que el protagonista, el propio James, se pierde entre la floresta persiguiendo el rumor de las aguas de un arroyo, hasta que da con una extraña caja que contiene los cinco frascos del título.
A partir de aquí conocerá un mundo maravilloso, poblado de las Criaturas Afables y de sus contrarios, las Criaturas Aviesas.James era un gran conocedor del folclore británico, y eso se nota en esta deliciosa historia, escrita en la tradición del cuento popular de hadas, con notas de humor, y narrada desde el lirismo y la elegancia.
Un hombre decide seguir el ruido que causan las aguas del río y entonces descubre una caja que contiene cinco frascos. Cada frasco tiene magia que le otorgará poderes gracias a los cuales descubrirá maravillas inimaginables. Sin embargo no todo es miel sobre hojuelas y tendrá que vérselas con criaturas que desean conseguir esos poderes.   En lo personal, este tipo de libros no van conmigo pero me sentía un poco decidida a cambiar de rumbos y dejar la pastelosidad de las novelas de romance (cómo
Los cinco frascos fue todo un descubrimiento, no de mi completo agrado precisamente porque no tengo costumbre de leer este género y por tanto no tengo muchos puntos de referencia...
Si bien la novela está llena de historias fantásticas, divertidas y muy creativas, siento que encantará más a los fans del género, independientemente de que sean chicos o grandes.
Lo dicho, si son fans del género de horror, aman los cuentos de hadas oscuros y las narraciones complejas y llenas de vida, este libro será para ustedes.
The Five Jars is something of an oddity in the oeuvre of the great ghost story writer and medieval scholar, M.R. James.
I forget the precise details of his relationship with the girl but they're well covered in various Jamesian sources.It's a pleasant enough short read though hardly a classic of the form.
For the protagonist to be an affable but superficially unexciting man heavily based on James himself works well for his ghost stories but is less successful here.
I'm not sure what I think of this book so far.
I'll keep reading and let you know.I'm really not sure what my thoughts were about this book.
It was really an odd book.
I'm going to have to think about this one and get back to my review.After giving this much thought I liked the book, it was odd and didn't really make much sense, but it was an enjoyable read none the less.
I can't really explain this book anymore then a man finds a locked box containing 5 jars.
3.5 / 5Una historia llena de magia con una hermosa narrativa.Reseña: http://www.eternamenteentiniebla.com/...
This was a very wild read.
I picked this book up randomly on Amazon, thinking it would be another ghost story--I love M.R. James' ghost stories with a passion.
However, this is a short fantasy novel, probably written for children, with a dash of Tolkien and the gothic thrown in.
I get alternatively wonder-struck at the way the fairy world exists and interacts with our every day existence and chills down my spine at the way various sinister attempts were made from mysterious, nefarious sources to harm our protagonist.
The writing is, of course, superb, and it was a great, light piece of reading to curl up and enjoy on a lazy weekend afternoon.
I downloaded this enjoyable children's fairy story from Project Gutenberg along with M.R. James' ghost stories.A man digs up a box containing 5 jars of ointment, and opens one each night, (view spoiler)[finding that each gives him a different power, including talking to his cat and seeing the fairy village on the lawn outside his window. Being able to communicate with the fairy boys comes in handy, as there are dark forces at work trying to get hold of the jars (hide spoiler)].
I found this to be a whimsical and quaint fantasy story that’s quite different to all the other M.R. James stories that I’ve read so far. It’s very imaginative and somewhat enjoyable although I don’t think that I’d recommend it. James’ ghost stories are much better and demonstrate his true writing skill and ability.
A weird book, but I love M.R. James. For a book ostensibly for children, this story is pretty creepy. That makes sense if you're familiar with James' other writings. If you've never read any of his work, start with "Ghost Stories of an Antiquary". Then maybe read this later.
Less spooky and more fantasy with wee people which I can never pass up.
A rather peculiar book, ostensibly for children, by M.R. James, one of the great horror writers of the early 20th century.
This book is more fantasy than horror, however, concerning as it does a middle-aged author stand-in who discovers a mysterious lead box containing the five jars of the title, which contain magical ointments that give him the power to understand the language of animals, see and communicate with supernatural beings, and so on.
M.R. James is most famous for his ghost stories, some of which are pretty brutal, but this short novel is a relatively quaint fairy story for young readers (the vocabulary is probably a little high to call this a children's book, by modern standards, but in 1920 when he wrote it this was normal).
It starts out very slowly, and James' very detailed descriptions of things make the story seem longer than it is, but the slowly building tension is effective even though the peril is unclear.Anyway the plot centers on the narrator's discovery of five jars of ointment which allow him to see, hear, and eventually interact with animals, fairies, and ghosts.
I knew M R James' ghost stories were not his only writing, but had thought the rest was mostly academic.
But this begins exactly as the ghost stories do - a walker finds a cache of ancient treasure, then starts fiddling with it.
True, some malign forces also seek the jars, but they're never too frightening, and soon seen off; one wonders if the ghost stories' protagonists might as easily have saved themselves had they thought to pick up a few horseshoes.
Not the equal of his ghost stories. Something of a pre-cursor to the Harry Potter stories.
Odd, intriguing, short, different--all enticements to read an M R James fantasy. Such novel revelations: Old horseshoes, when touched by the evil creatures, force these beings to "go over all the ground that the shoe went over since it was last in the blacksmith's hands"; and to stop seeing horrible visions from the past (seeing visions from the past was one jar's gift), shut your eyes from below--"that meant pushing up the lower eyelids--". Sprinkled throughout are these same type tidbits.
A very peculiar fantasy story that reminded me a lot of Edward Eager's children's books. The whimsical-yet-creepy atmosphere is similar to books like Eager's "Seven Day Magic." This is not as good, though, because the story doesn't have a strong enough plot to use all the magic to good effect. It ends very abruptly and I was left thinking, "Huh, that's it?" It was engrossing, however, and I was never bored.
While lacking the spookiness of his other work, The Five Jars is a good M.R. James story. It concerns a man who finds a magic plant, then a magic box, and then magic jars that allow him to see the other world of fairies, gnomes, and such. The jars are desired by those who should not have them. Part of the story lies in James' use of animal discussion and part in the fact that he doesn't feel the need to explain everything.
Creo que no he logrado entender del todo la historia. No me gustan las historias infantiles de principios de siglo porque me da la sensación de que no son para niños, o al menos son demasiado enrevesadas como para que sean para niños. Me recuerdan a algunos cuentos de los hermanos Grimm, que estaban más destinados a adultos que a niños.Me hubiera gustado que se hubieran utilizado más los frascos, porque aún sigo sin saber muy bien para que servía cada uno de ellos.
This book is really cute. Not much happens, but it doesn't happen much in a charming way. Not ghosty at all, which is not what you'd expect from M. R., but kind of adorable elfin and animal chatting. Of course, his best bits are writing elfy "schoolboys," who he understands perfectly. A nice youths' book.
I gave this a five because it was such an interesting book (although that would mean that James' ghost stories should get about an 8). I read the 1922 edition with charming art nouveau illustrations. This is surprisingly whimsical and charming and I wish I had read it as a child. Thanks to Michael Dirda in his book "Readings" for mentioning this only novel by James.
It was a very nice book, a fantasy written in the first decades of the XX century, but with a certain feeling of XIX century romantic story. The end was weird, though, with a climax far behind the end. Anyway, it remind me of GHIBLI kind of movie, so I really enjoyed it.
Starts out a bit like a regular M. R. James story, but turns into a children's story rather than a ghost one, about a hidden world and little people who live there. I prefer the ghost stories, I'm afraid. :)
Interesting. Not his best work, but a nice deviation somewhat from "straight" horror. I also kind of like how it ended vaguely, without really explaining what the evil thing was.
A silly book; a meandering fantasy. I did not enjoy it. Also, I would not want a child to read this.
Una historia infantil con gran creatividad e imaginación.Con una narración perfecta y personajes interesantes.
A light children's story from a master of horror fiction. Not his finest work, but readable.
Fucking insane, but weirdly comforting?
Not what I expected. It was a child's fairy tale so I was disappointed and didn't get to the end.
