https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336409.My_Brother_Michael
Camilla is traveling through Greece, wishing to tour the historic area of Delphi but a little short on cash.
So when a stranger comes up to her in the restaurant and hands her the keys to a car parked outside, saying "You wanted a car for Delphi, non?" and adding that it was a matter of life and death for "Monsieur Simon" before conveniently disappearing, it seems like fate is taking a hand in Camilla's life.
Still, even an average Mary Stewart book is worth reading.
The absolute joy of Mary Stewart is her ability to take you right out of this world and place you securely in her own.
My Brother Michael is one of my favorite mystery/romances, with a stirring plot that moves rapidly and keeps you guessing to the end.
"Nothing ever happens to me" laments Camilla and right away we know the adventure is about to begin.
So far, though, My Brother Michael has been my favorite of the mystery/romance genre.
No hazmat suits needed, and this copy smells as a book should :DOh and yeah, the story is another hit outta the park by Stewart.Original Review:Mary Stewart’s, My Brother Michael, was a singularly interesting reading experience for me, to say the least.I received the old, tattered copy from my library sporting a particularly garish aqua and yellow library bound graphic cover and consisting of browned, wavy pages (looking like the book had been dropped into a vat of coffee) and emitting a distinctive….musty....odor.
One of Stewart's early novels, it already had many of the ingredients that sometimes make me feel comfortable and other times make me think "Ah, The MS Formula!".
But I was annoyed by Camilla, the main character.
And I liked this comment by Simon (Michael's brother) when Camilla seems almost to be pitching a hissy fit wondering why the country seems so magical.
Just feel the magic, don't analyze it, Camilla!Well anyway, Simon says: "I think the secret is that it belongs to all of us ~~ to us of the West.
We all have our own country ~~ and Greece."
So this is the third Mary Stewart novel that I have read in the past six days.
In my mind, Mary Stewart is like the Alfred Hitchcock of novel writers and I am thoroughly enjoying devouring everything that she has penned.
The latest that I've read-My Brother Michael-is set in Greece in the late 1950s and while reading I found myself going through my photo albums looking at pictures of a trip to Greece.
It's a magical country and makes a romantic yet mysterious setting for this story.
"Nothing ever happens to me..." As Camilla Haven sits in a cafe in Athens and writes those very words in a letter to her sister, she has no idea the twists and turns her life is soon going to take.
A strange man comes and gives her the keys to a rental car, telling her she must take it to Monsieur Simon in Delphi right away - a matter of life and death.
In true Stewart fashion, Camilla and Simon's story take many twists and turns along with the prerequisite nail biting life and death conclusion.
And whenever I dream of Greece, I remember my original copy of Edith Hamilton's Mythology that I read cover to cover several times over.
On her way there, she does, in fact, meet a man named Simon, who is in Delphi trying to decipher the mysterious circumstances surrounding the death of his brother Michael more than a decade earlier during World War II.
Armed with Michael's last letter and three gold sovereigns, Camilla and Simon set out for the site of his brother's death.
2 1/2 StarsThis wasn't my favorite Mary Stewart.
I could feel the intense heat coming through my sandals and could smell the herby wild flowers and taste the pomegranates.
Mary Stewart is very good at setting a time and place.But I didn't feel the characters so much.
The unappreciated heroine, tall dark and handsome englishman, untidy and slightly eccentric artist, resident vamp, and of course the burly greek tough guys.
Don't get me wrong, they were ok, I just didn't feel much for them or care too much what became of them.
Actually, I did care about Nigel the artist.
Like EVERY character is a chain smoker.MY RATING: PG
A Solid 3 What I found hard with this book was that all 400 pages happened in  Three Days . After the beginning car mix up nothing happened till chapter what, 15? And in all honesty, I didn't care overly much about the characters. I liked them, yes I really did. But that's where is ended. Camilla was, welllll… a bit, weak. If I had been her I'd have run, no matter what. I didn't find myself liking Simon much, I know I was supposed to, but I didn't. Grey eyes or no. His gray eyes never entrapped
What I found hard with this book was that all 400 pages happened in 
I didn't find myself liking Simon much, I know I was supposed to, but I didn't.
His gray eyes never entrapped me.I detested Danielle, her tongue flicking between her teeth, showing bright pink against glittering white teeth with pale pink lips, tormenting poor Nigel and her nasty, burly sidekicks.
Then there was Nigel, I cared about him most.
I think, that if you cut out the bit about Michael, the story wouldn't really change.
I guess I missed Mary Stewart's usual beautiful atmosphere and you-can-see-em-an-feel-em animals and children.
Adore Mary Stewart's romantic suspense novels and the fact that this one is set in Greece just adds to the overall enjoyment. Enough has already been said about the plot, so no point in going over the same ground.Mary Stewart to this day remains such a bankable author. You know that you will find interesting characters, a gentler romance, and an excellent mystery/suspense component. "Vintage" but it just adds to the overall charm of the novels.
I don't think there's much new to say about any of these Mary Stewart books that I didn't say about all the others.
Love the descriptions of Greece, especially Delphi; Mary Stewart is no slouch when it comes to depicting the atmosphere of a place.Not entirely surprising, at any point, and I'm not sure I ever dare to think about these books critically in terms of colonialism and the like.
But if you like Mary Stewart's work in general, you'll like this.
I first read it when my sons were little, I was home alone and there was a huge thunderstorm going on.
I still have a vivid memory of how I felt that night and always remembered th name of this book.So this year I found a used copy in a bookstore and decided to see if it really was as scary as I remembered.
It still gets pretty tense, and I was right in my memory that the scary part was in a cave.
I think now I could read it in a thunderstorm and be okay!
Group read with the Mary Stewart group.I still give this 4.5 stars.
I enjoyed this reread just as much the second time around, despite all the tossed cigarette butts.
I liked how Camilla was just coming out of her shell after 6 years of living in someone else's shadow.
Of course Mary Stewart's description of Delphi and the surrounding area is wonderful.
I also liked that Simon was on a quest to find out what happened to his older brother.
(view spoiler)[Michael had been working undercover in Greece with the resistance during WWII.
(hide spoiler)]Reread March 2014
As for the characters, the protagonist was easy to like and so was the love interest, and Stewart managed to write a character in this book that I found downright irritating, but that's the way she was supposed to be so it was all good.This book also involved ancient Greek art, namely statues that were very rare because few of them survived the war.
Overall this was a good read, if slow to get going and I would rank it 5th on my list of Mary Stewart books, pretty much even with Wildfire at Midnight.
While pondering her problem in a street cafe, a stranger approaches her and gives her the keys to a car he believes she has rented to be delivered to Simon in Delphi.
Left with the keys to a car she doesn't own, but must apparently deliver to a man named Simon in Delphi, what is a girl to do?
The villagers assure the woman that the man can assist her in finding the Simon she seeks.
I love Mary Stewart's writing, but this book was not as polished as others written by her.
It was easy to read, with the exception of a little boredom in places.
Not my favorite Mary Stewart, but very diverting as always.
Wonderful setting in Greece, references to the Greek classics and art, and some very scary final moments.
The hero, Simon, was rather remarkably tough for a classics professor, but maybe he got his training during the war or something.
Mary Steward never fails to deliver magical scenes: in My Brother Michael it is Camilla's starlit midnight visit to the ruins in Delphi, and also the moment when Simon quotes from Euripides in the ancient theater on Mt.Parnassus.PG: Some frightening moments including several killings, one rather surprisingly violent.

Already a fan of Mary Stewart, I began reading My Brother Michael with very high expectations.
Darkness oozed out of every possible nook and cranny in this story, including the pores of the villains.
The unconquerable darkness left me shivering while I was hiding in the cave with Camilla.
The villains are creepy and dark in nature.
Mary Stewart masters the very MEANING of darkness here.
The gods still walk there, and a man who would not go carefully in the country of the gods is a fool."The divine Mary Stewart has earned another five stars from me for this outstanding and very October worthy novel!
Rereading this book -- well past my earlier reading in high school -- I understand why it seemed so important to get my hands on a copy of this book before we headed to Greece.
A shame that Morrow or whichever house has this title does not reissue this and others of Mrs. Stewart's books in electronic form.
Aside from being good reads in and of themselves, this and several other titles are atmospheric guides to important venues, whether you are following in her footsteps or making a virtual visit.In the late '50s when Stewart wrote (and set) this, was access to Delphi as unfettered and quiet as she describes?
(2.5 stars) The first "adult" books I read were the 50s/60s gothics and romantic suspense books by Holt & Stewart et al.
Her sentence structure & turns of phrase were lovely, loaded with allusions, metaphors, & quotations and a vocabulary that had me returning to the dictionary several times!
Descriptions were wonderfully evocative- I think that is what I had remembered most, the lovely picture of the Greek countryside.
Another sign of the times (or sponsorship by a tobacco company)- everyone in the book smoked *constantly*!
(Listed as first read in Aug 1964 with 4-star rating per diary)
Mary Stewart's books are always enjoyable to read because of her sheer skill with words, with creating a you-are-there atmosphere and a compelling first-person narration.
I think, though, that My Brother Michael is my least favorite of those I've read so far, in terms of the story itself.
On the flip side, I did like the insight into Simon and Camilla's characters, and their relationship with each other, which I felt was a bit deeper and more perceptive than the romances in some of Stewart's other books (in spite of the fact that the whole plot takes place over just a few days)—and the references to Donne's "No man is an island" as well.(Also, fairly irrelevant to the plot, but the scene near the beginning where Camilla tries to turn the car around in the village is hilarious.)
This is typical Mary Stewart romantic suspense and this one takes place in Greece.
(This would be excellent reading for a cold winter's day because the heat fairly rises off the pages as the characters trek dusty goat paths and explore ancient ruins.)I'm yet again reminded what a well-read reader Stewart was herself and thoroughly enjoyed the many references to classical Greek history and literature.
Superbly atmospheric, with wonderful descriptions of locations and food, and a tantalizing appetizer into Greek art, history, and classical literature.
Proving once more that Mary Stewart is deservedly the unsurpassed master of smart, well-written romantic suspense.
I do not know how many times I've read this book but it continues to hold a certain charm for me. Perhaps it recalls the thrill I felt the first time I read it in my early teens, or perhaps it is the old stlye it is written in, or perhaps it is because it is a mystery that ends happily... in any case I expect I will be reading it again in a few years so I can revisit Greece, climb through ruins, solve a mystery, and discover that I can do more than I thought at the outset.
Bettie's Books
I probably would have liked this more if I hadn't read it in such stop start fashion, but it wasn't holding my attention very well, so that's the way I read it. Definitely my least favorite of the Mary Stewart books I've read, but I am determined to press on and try the rest of them.
I love the humility and growth of the protagonist, Camilla Haven, as she transforms from one man's shadow to a courageous woman that held up the honor of British women in comparison to the hard-working, tough Greek women.
And it's so Mary Stewart to symbolize the transformation, "I noticed then that the mark had gone from the third finger of my left hand.
I enjoyed the nuances of admiration for the Greeks of two generations and the play of words, emotions, and honor with the flashy, Americanized, young Greek.I felt the attraction between the protagonist and her love interest growing in a believable, typical British-tempered way.This novel will always remain on my, "Will re-read" list.
I have travelled to Greece by book, and I have been on a grand adventure with a lovely heroine, to celebrate Mary Stewart Reading Week.The story began with a young woman, Camilla Haven, sitting outside a café in Athens, writing a letter to a friend.
At first it seemed a little too “typically Mary Stewart”, the car trip went on just a little too long, and I didn’t like the crisis that brought Camilla and Simon together perpetuated the stereotype that women drivers can’t reverse.But I liked Camilla from the start, and it was lovely to watch her finding her feet and gaining in confidence as she coped with all kinds of things.
I don't think this is quite as good as those four stars suggest; that said, this is sincere in a way that modern books in the same vein aren't, and that makes My Brother Michael stand out.It's partly Stewart's writing, which is breathless and awed by its depictions much the way Camilla is.
It's partly the innocence of the time, which makes the plot stand out in stark contrast.
Instead, once the story gets going, it revolves around a treasure hunt with casually high stakes, and concludes as soon as the hunt comes to an end.
He tells her it is a matter of life or death that the car be delivered to Delphi to Simon, and as "Simon's girl" he is leaving it with her.
Even though she is not "Simon's girl" --- the person the car is intended for ---- she impulsively and un characteristically takes the keys and drives off with it, fully intending to meet up with Simon and deliver the car to him with her apologies for taking it.
This is how Camilla is drawn into the tragedy and mystery of Simon's brother Michael's death.
I like how this story has more depth than the usual romantic suspense novel. There is still romance (although it's fairly understated) and suspense, but Stewart provides characterization, lots of character growth and a moving "No man is an island" theme that gives the story unusual resonance. Reading about the English characters' awe at seeing so many historical sites in Delphi made me wish I had more of a classical education and could quote Sophocles on command as they do, but luckily that level of information isn't necessary for enjoying this story.
