https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3539006-the-dunwich-horror-and-other-stories
HP Lovecraft’s tales are dominated by a mounting sense of dread; however, the amount of time he spends creating this atmosphere is often at odds with moving the narrative forward in an effective way.
For me, that means I enjoy HP Lovecraft’s tales (and his mythos), but I haven’t always cared much for his writing.
In Dunwich Horror, Lovecraft evokes a nameless, ancient terror without sacrificing the story.
Dunwich Horror is a satisfying and enjoyable read!
This is not his most well- known work, but if you haven’t read any of Lovecraft’s stories before I would say this is a good place to start.
Now keep in mind that I have a serious smitten on for HPL and so my reviews of his stories are coming from the perspective of someone who joys at his trademark brand of atmospheric melodrama and over the top descriptions of “nameless horrors.” I like his vivid, archaic prose and love that he might describe a swamp not as “spooky looking” but rather some "eldritch conglomerate of unholy components whose fetid stench radiated evil and whose appearance cried of unspeakable dread."****Note: that this was my own attempt to emulate Lovecraft so don’t hold the above description against him.
Jerry, George, Elaine and Cthulhu are sitting in Jerry’s New York apartment discussing H.P. Lovecraft’s 1928 novella The Dunwich Horror.[Kramer bursts through the door] Kramer: Is Cthulhu still here, oh there you are.
Good to see you my friend, come on in, we’re just talking some Dunwich Horror.Kramer: Yeah, I read it, and I’M LOVIN’ IT JERRY!Jerry: One of H.P.’s best, no doubt.George: What do you think of the Arkham references, Jerry?Jerry: Well, it’s more Batman than Superman, but all good fun just the same.Cthulhu: Lovecraft’s introduction of Wilbur Whateley into the mythos was a stroke of inspired horrific genius, providing a link from the mundane to the cryptic and profane.
The story seemed much more fleshed out and seemed to have a linear purpose beyond just being a short story about esoteric dealings and horrific things from the blackness etcIf I weren't so lazy I'd look up the chronology of this story, which I imagine was written much later than the others I've read, simply because it reeks of advanced storytelling, and not the simple "ooh, and then this happens" kind of storytelling I've found in his others.My only consternation with this story is the rather trite Now Let That Be A Lesson To You dialogue that occurs towards the end, when Mr. Education defeats the monster and must chide the Backwater Idiots, verbally spanking them and making sure They Never Do It Again.
After you're finished with The Call of Cthulhu and you feel as if you still have your senses about you (You think you do, but you don't.
Good try though!), give The Dunwich Horror and Other Stories a go.
often reads like an old-timey newspaper story.
That style tends to distance the reader from the action, but this is an intentional device used to keep up the mystery.
Perhaps some might call the writing stiff at times.
Maybe a modern reader or two might find this too formal.
I'm thinking I should read Lovecraft every time Halloween comes around, if I dare...
This was my daily story I had to read from The Weird so I sat down to read it, and told myself that I'd make my way through it and then go on to more productive things, but instead I couldn't keep reading more than a couple of pages at a time before all sorts of banal things would seem more interesting and needing my attention than continuing to read.
6 OCT 2015 - Today was a very slow day at work.
It happens sometimes.
I downloaded The Dunwich Horror from Project Gutenberg and spent the day being scared out of my mind.
This is a spooky read.
Here is your link to being frightened: https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/50133Do NOT read before bedtime.
Dagny and I shared our Lovecraft reading experience.
Dagny wrote: "I can still remember the first time I read a story by Lovecraft.
It was back in the 70s and I thought it was the scariest story I had ever read."Exactly.
Those figures are so silent and furtive that one feels somehow confronted by forbidden things, with which it would be better to have nothing to do.
Howard: fraudio#3: 1* Brain Child by John Saul: fraudio#4: 3* Domain (Rats #3) by James Herbert: fraudio#5: CR The Mourning Vessels by Peter Luther: paperback#6: 2* The Doom of the Great City: ebook short-story#7: 5* Long After Midnight by Ray Bradbury: fraudio#8: 5* The Dead Zone by Stephen King: fraudio#9: TR The Chalice: hardback#10: TR Seven Gothic Tales: ebook#11: TR Tales of Men and Ghosts#12: 2* Shattered by Dean Koontz: fraudio#13: 5* The Dunwich Horror: e-book: gutenberg project
The Whateley farm is also a topic of many hushed talks - there's an omen of a strange presence in the farmhouse, which the Whateleys keep rebuilding, and strange noises frighten infrequent visitors.The Dunwich Horror builds up slowly to the actual horror, which occurs at the very end; most of the novel focuses on the disintegration of the Whateley family, and the growing strangeness of young Wilbur.
The actual horror occurs at the end of the novel, and affects most of Dunwich in its grotesque monstrosity; it is notable that The Dunwich Horror remains one of the very few (if not only) Lovecraft stories where a group of heroes not only actively study the nature of said horror, but put up successful resistance against it.
The Horror, the “blasphemy” came to the town as a boy named Wilbur Whately.
You see, the birds want to capture and torment that person’s soul.Wilbur wants to get his hands on “The Necronomicon,” an ancient book remembering a world before ours, an ancient world when the “Ancient Ones” once lived and ruled.
Wilbur becomes obsessed and unlocks a portal with strange words, calling on an ancient entity of which Cthulhu has no contest.
The man becomes a beast, an inhuman, other-worldly beast, and he calls upon a foreign power invisible to the human eye, an entity from another dimension.
Master of horror writes a story of true forces of evil. The story beats a lot of modern writers in prose, characters and plot. I can see why many screenwriters have taken from pages of Lovecraft's characters. It seems that The Dark Tower series by King has a lot of inspiration from these elements in Dunwich Horror and other stories. A dark malevolent force of evil has taken over Dunwich is there hope?You are taken through the accounts and findings of this evil, a very good tale.  "Young Wilbur‘s
Master of horror writes a story of true forces of evil.
The story beats a lot of modern writers in prose, characters and plot.
I can see why many screenwriters have taken from pages of Lovecraft's characters.
It seems that The Dark Tower series by King has a lot of inspiration from these elements in Dunwich Horror and other stories.
A dark malevolent force of evil has taken over Dunwich is there hope?You are taken through the accounts and findings of this evil, a very good tale.
"Young Wilbur‘s precociousness,Old Whateley's black magic, andthe shelves of strange books, thesealed second storey of theancient farmhouse, and theweirdness of the whole regionland its hill noises.
4.5This is one of my favourite Lovecraft's stories.
After his birth, his grandfather starts buying a lot of cattle and sheep, but their numbers don't seem to increase at all when the nosy and curious neighbours check them.Wilbur is not an ordinary child.
And dogs seem to hate him with passion.Every now and then Wilbur and his grandfather, a black magic practitioner, would start working on the house, rebuilding and changing.
You know from the start that the father isn't human.
The whole story is told by a narrator who did not experience the Dunwich horror events himself.
This time it is The Dunwich Horror and I find, yet again, its hard to go wrong with Lovecraft.In the backwoods town of Dunwich, Mass., Wilbur Whateley is born to his disfigured albino mother Lavinia.
The father's identity is unknown but later in the story it is alluded that the father is Yog-Sothoth by Wilbur's half-mad and witchcraft practicing grandfather, Old Whateley.
As the years go by, Wilbur and his grandfather continually remodel their home to larger proportions and strange rumblings are heard inside the house.
What could be going on in the Whateley house?Lovecraft's tale continues the revealing of Yog-Sothoth, the Old Ones, and the Necronomicon.
I started out incredibly skeptical and wary of this collection as I was made aware that Lovecraft is racist and that his prejudicial attitude appears in his writing often. I liked the title story and “The Thing on the Doorstep” quite a bit, but as I continued jumping around the collection, I found the collection too repetitive ultimately. He seems to play with the same themes repeatedly and, forget scaring me, the stories eventually stop becoming even mildly entertaining. I think I’ll pass on more Lovecraft in the future.
3.75"Pues aun cuando el nepente me ha tranquilizado los nervios, sé que siempre seré un extraño. Un extraño en este siglo entre quienes siguen siendo hombres"H.P. Lovecraft y su obra, por August Derleth *RELLENO*El horror de Dunwich 2/5El modelo de Pickman 5/5El susurrador en la oscuridad 4/5El extraño 4/5 Con ya leídos casi cuarenta relatos (entre ellos novelas cortas) de Howard Phillips Lovecraft en poco más de un mes podéis haceros una idea de cuánto me gusta. Pero con esta antología no he p
Un extraño en este siglo entre quienes siguen siendo hombres"H.P. Lovecraft y su obra, por August Derleth *RELLENO*El horror de Dunwich 2/5El modelo de Pickman 5/5El susurrador en la oscuridad 4/5El extraño 4/5
Además de esta “critica encubierta” , está la parte macabra del relato, que yo por lo menos, no me vi venir y fue cuanto menos, sorprendente y el final, todavía más.
También como ya he comentado, está el hecho de que varias partes se me hicieron cuesta arriba porque realmente no pasaba nada demasiado increíble.
Esta colección de apenas tres relatos refuerza la genialidad de Lovecraft para evocar historias que mezclan bestias, aldeas antiguas y enigmáticas tradiciones.El horror de Dunwich, que ocupa casi todas las páginas de este libro, es un cuento muy efectivo en la descripción de paisajes, lo que permite generar una atmósfera adecuada para representar el pavor de los pueblerinos con respecto a una familia nada convencional, con profundos (y oscuros) secretos en su interior.
Una de las partes más atractivas es la traducción de Armitage del diario de Wilbur, con énfasis en sus reacciones respecto al mismo.La tumba, por su parte, es digna de fascinación.
Estos son mis primeros cuentos de Lovecraft que he leído. Me atraparon desde un inicio, la forma en que describe a los monstruos y lo que viven los personajes es super intrigante. En definitiva hay que leerlos y leer más de este grandioso autor.
En ellos se conjugan a la perfección los llamados Mitos de Cthulhu y los relatos del ciclo de Nueva Inglaterra, llegando a unas cotas de horror y suspense extraordinarias, sin dejar de lado la gran calidad literaria (a pesar de la opinión de algunos críticos pedantes de la época, como bien comenta August Derleth en el prólogo sobre la vida y obra de Lovecraft).Cito a Lovecraft: "La literatura de terror debe ser realista y ambiental, limitando su desviación de la naturaleza al canal sobrenatural elegido, y recordando que el escenario, el tono y los acontecimientos son más importantes a la hora de comunicar lo que se pretende que los personajes y la acción misma." Y esto es lo que mejor sabía hacer Lovecraft, crear atmósferas asfixiantes y sobrecogedoras, donde lo macabro y sobrenatural "eran" posibles.
Me gustó mucho como está contado, el principio y el final especialmente.
Podía imaginarme las escenas en mi mente como si fuera una película de terror y eso me re gustó.
Hubiera estado bueno que en vez de hablar de criaturas monstruosas, Lovecraft, lo deje en el aire y que cada uno imagine lo que pasó en el pueblo.(view spoiler)[ Lovecraft tiene una fijación con describir a los monstruos, que aparte de no dar miedo, para mí, le quitan la magia y el misterio al clima que genera con sus descripciones.
Y aparte tiene una fijación con Cthulhu...
Lovecraft does Cold Comfort Farm, or Stella Gibbons on a very bad acid trip. A family of inbreds in the sticks of New England grow something nasty in the woodshed. Flora Post is replaced by one Professor Arkham fresh from the city, going native and saving the day. The Cowkeepers' Weekly Bulletin and Milk Producers' Guide is replaced by the Mad Arab Abdul Alhazred's Necronomicon. Aimless, Feckless, Graceless and Pointless the cows are savaged by a gargantuan oily beast summoned from another dimension. But in essentials they are the same book.
Screw you, Lovecraft, I already hate this story."deeds of almost unnamable violence and perversity" *rolls eyes*"No one, even those who have the facts concerning the recent horror, can say just what is the matter with Dunwich; though old legends speak of unhallowed rites and conclaves of the Indians..."Apparently even if you know what's wrong with the town...
Works for me.And let's get some fainting done before something else happens.I wonder if people went out and slaughtered whippoorwills after reading this book?So. Now I'm in a section where the army of three ran off to mess with inviso-monster and we get to stay behind and "watch" with the townsfolk.
Review on The Dunwich Horror for schoolThe first important even in the story is the birth of Wilbur Whateley.
Some of the characters you meet through the story speak in a old southern Phonetic English, it really threw me off while reading.
I would be enthralled by the great suspenseful mystery that was being built up with Dr. Armitage then I would have to stop, slow down, and try to figure out what the characters were trying to say.
I would have much preferred if that part of the story was written in proper English like the rest and Lovecraft just said they had an accent.
However, this is still a great read.
As per usual, all of the action occurs either completely off-stage or, at the very least, from a distance and explained by nonplussed observers.
There's not a lot of dialogue here, though, quite frankly, it's more than in most HPL yarns, but it's almost all in an overwhelmingly irritating local patois that it's semi-unreadable.On the other hand, this is likely one of the more action-packed HPL stories.
Things happen, and characters actually take action, instead of being swept along in the supernatural, bobbing like a cork in a storm-tossed sea.A wonderful time is guaranteed for all.
Fun, old-timey psychological thrillers.
H.P. Lovecraft is a good author, no question about it. Yet I'd never read him before.
I enjoyed the setting -- and while I’m at it will add that I enjoyed that all these stories took place in a similar sort of location -- and the contrast between a pleasant university and its scholars to the horrid secrets of Dunwich.The Dreams in the Witch House was interesting to read, as I’ve seen the Masters of Horror short film adaptation, which I really enjoyed.
It would be easy for this to make the story dull, but that is not the case -- Lovecraft can just as easily build the suspense back up from the conclusion than from the beginning.Hypnos was very short, but with a fantastic ending.
First published in the 1920's Lovecraft's prose is very much like the neo-gothic style of architecture that was popular in the States during the time.
In fact reading Dunwich Horror again reminded me of Pasadena's All Saints Church, itself a neo-gothic creation, and of admiring the intricacies evident in the construction.
Reading HP Lovecraft is very much about appreciating the intricacies of the writer's creation.
The story itself begins what later scholars would call the "Cthulu Mythology" and in many respects the story represents the best of what Lovecraft offers readers.
The Dunwich Horror is also that rare thing that has lost none of its impact in the many years between readings.
I loved this story so much, it's going to climb up my Lovecraft favourites list, and be placed second only to the Shadow over Innsmouth.
Interesting plot, lovely descriptions and atmosphere as usual, non-tiring writing style, and my favourite recipe for horror stories: a small, decaying town filled with secrets, mystery and unspeakable hauntings.But the most important thing for me was....
With every new Lovecraft story I read, I get a wider, richer image of the universe he created, of the creatures that haunt it and of their relationship to each other.
I've started distinguishing patterns and similarities throughout the stories.
The story started of well and gave us a spooky small village setting with the odd family of a Grandfather, Albino mother and inhuman grandson.The build-up was great but then it kind of just fizzled out.After this great build-up I expected something horrifying in the climax but it was SO-SO(view spoiler)[Monster from the other world entered our earth dimension maybe because of the witchcraft performed by the grandfather and inhuman grandson.
All the villagers group together to destroy the Monster and realize that it in fact was the inhuman grandson's twin (hide spoiler)]It is a decent read but I did not get the chills I expect from my horror reads.....
La historia me gustó y la forma en la que está escrito no es pesada como en otros cuentos que tuve el placer de leer. Pero las últimas 20 páginas me llevó varios días leerlas y esto alargó lo que llamo "la tortura de Lovecraft", yo quería terminar los cuentos de una vez pero solo se me hacían cada vez más largos u.u Así que no lo pude disfrutar del todo. Es posible que tardara en leerlo no por culpa del libro sino porque estuve cansada, pero la sensación de amargura estuvo presente así que no puedo darle 4 estrellas.
