https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/474634.The_Wedding_Girl
the truth doesn't come out until page 280 or so, & you know they're not going to introduce a brand-new guy to be the baby daddy at that point.anyway, tediousness transpires, milly's sister convinces her to try to track down her husband & see about arranging a divorce, & this leads to milly locating her husband's boyfriend from the time--rupert.
i need a divorce?" & rupert's all, "don't tell anyone i'm gay," & milly's all, "dude, you totally need to tell your wife you're gay," & rupert's wife is like, "tell me what now?" & basically rupert's life is destroyed.
I am a fan of Sophie Kinsella's books, so when I found out that she was also writing as Wickham, I wanted to take a look.
Kinsella's books a fun and flighty, romantic comedies with little edge.
I've often likened them to modern fairy tales and enjoy them very much.
In this book, the very first difference was it was written in the third person with shifting view points as opposed to Kinsella's first person stories.
Not as fun or flighty but still enjoyable, perhaps even more so for giving an edge to a story that could have been another comedic rehash.
Do all of Wickham's books hold this edge?
I'd accidentally gotten myself mired in a brand-name dropping morass of people being shallow.Fortunately, I was wrong.Oh, the characters have flaws all right.
People have unexpected depths and problems beyond being idiotic.
This is a more complicated book than I'd realized, and I enjoyed it all the more for that.The one big issue is that there is one character who turns out to be malevolent for reasons not fully explained.
There are little hints, but given how well some of the other backstory is described, I kind of wonder if the author had intended there to be another big reveal of the character's past that gotten forgotten or accidentally edited out.
This book is a romance, written under Sophie Kinsella's pseudo.
Milly is a twenty-eight-year-old woman, just a few short days of getting married, who wants everyone to love her.
He knows Milly's best kept secret.
Killing him is out of the question, yet Milly needs to find away to shut him up before everyone finds out that she's not perfect.
Just knowing how funny Kinsella can be, I felt cheated.
I wanted a dash of that humorist tone and crazy situations.
But instead this is hard core drama that deals with LGBT themes, non-planned pregnancies, and falling out of love.
perhaps worthy of a book club.

As I read this book I kept thinking back to a communications class I took in college and Michael Medved.
I truly believe that Madelaine Wickham thinks that this book is a pretty accurate reflection upon society and the struggles of human relationships in every stage.
I left this book feeling very grateful for gospel principles taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and for eternal covenants.
The apex of my discomfort came as I read "Pregnancy, they had been instructed at school, was akin to a nuclear missle-destroying everything in its path and leaving its victims to struggle through a subsequent life hardly worth living.
How can she tell Simon she's already married?
How can she tell her mother?
But as the crisis develops, more secrets are revealed than Milly could possibly have realised.This was a quick read, which I think most chick-lits should be.
I feel like at 18 I would too be young and stupid, willing to help out a poor gay couple.
This is one of my favorite Madeleine Wickham's books, and yes, I know it's really Sophie Kinsella but I'm not really a fan of her as Madeleine Wickham.
And BTW, Milly's mom is my mom!
Maybe that's why I felt like I could relate to this book.
This is a really good read and I'd have given it a five but I didn't care at all for the leading man, Simon.
In fact, I kept waiting for the hero to show up, which isn't good since I guess he was the leading man, but certainly not a hero.
And I kept waiting for his conversation with his father, to have some undertanding or at least a discussion of their past, but it never happened.
There is a real heart to this story and an underlying theme of honesty, being who you truly are and living your truth.
As usual with the Wickham books:so many charactersso much dramaso unnecessary secretsI'm glad this melodrama is over.(Somewhere between 1 and 2 stars.)
It was just OK, got a little too senti for a Sophie Kinsella style, but was a welcome break and liked it :)
A narração em questão revelou ser abrangente em diversos aspectos, e isso inclui não somente a trama em si, mas todos os personagens destacados, cada um revelando uma ousadia dinâmica e irreverente.“(...) Allan levou-a até a estação, ajudou-a a colocar sua mala no compartimento de bagagens e secou suas lágrimas com um lenço de seda.
Na verdade, ela é uma pessoa muito prestativa, quer agradar sempre a todos e as vezes tenta ser alguém que não é, dificultando os seus relacionados e as suas perspectivas diante das dificuldades da vida.
For something I thought was going to be fluffy chick lit, I was pleasantly surprised at how much depth there was to this book.
Like in any other literary genre there is well written chick lit (CL!) and badly written CL.
And for once the heroine doesn't necessarily choose to ditch the 'too perfect' fiancé (not a spoiler, operative word is choose, and there are a few twists and turns before they either make up/break up).There were also some unexpectedly weighty issues tackled in this book (albeit with a light touch, if that's not a contradiction in terms?) homosexual love, and the denial of same, bigamy, death, unexpected pregnancy, reinvigoration of tired love (and more) clearly none of these are examined that deeply in 366 pages though.There are some criticisms of this book of course, the main one being that most things are tied up a little too nicely at the end, but we like that, admit it!
When I think of reading a Sophie Kinsella book, I normally imagine something light-hearted, funny and definitely entertaining.
Unfortunately however, I was also expecting something good (for lack of a better term) which this definitely was not.I think it's safe to say that there was not one single likeable character in the entire book, which as you can imagine is quite a feat.
Sophie Kinsella: Please stick to your normal books and retire as Madeleine Wickham (who I can safely say I will never read anything else by)!!
It would have been very easy to turn Olivia into a caricature but she does have depth and despite her very in your face enthusiasm for the big day and her so obvious social climbing, knows that it is her daughters’ happiness that really matters.It seems that nearly everyone in the book has secrets that they have been keeping and dilemmas to resolve throughout the book and they all learn the lesson that whilst it is important to be honest with the ones you love, it is more important to be true to yourself.Although I thought Millie was a bit of an idiot for doing what she did in the first place and then not making 100% sure that everything was sorted out afterwards, I really enjoyed reading this book.
While the two are technically the same person, each time I dive into a work published under the name Wickham I find myself missing the charm of a Kinsella book.
However the complicated plots found in a Wickham book do make for an interesting read and tend to be better than cookie cutter plots found in similar books of the genre.In The Wedding Girl, I found myself very slowly being pulled in.
Not only do we understand the motivations of the wedding girl herself, Milly, but we understand the motivations of characters around her.
It was more like one of those depressing indie movies that focuses on how shit relationships can be and at the end, they toss you the slightest glimmer of hope.
Other people might not find it sad or depressing but I kind of did.
I thought the book would be a fun chick lit but it didn't give me that jolly feeling.
Other people will probably like this a lot.
Madeleine Wickham is a bit of a Debbie Downer.If you love Sophie Kinsella books, you might like Madeleine Wickham.
After reading several "heavy" reads, I was looking for something really lighthearted and frivolous. Wow. This book is certainly frivolous, but to the point of stupidity. There was nothing smart, funny or interesting about it. I tried several times to stick with it, figuring it had to get better at some point. I eventually gave up. So, technically, this review is on the first 120 pages because I couldn't force myself to read beyond that. If you're looking for an ounce of intelligence or wit in a book, don't waste you're time.
So far this is my favorite of Sophie Kinsella writing as Madeleine Wickham. The book according to her more serious style when she writes with her real name has a few brush-strokes of sadness here and there, but overall the story is gripping, it has interesting turns and some unexpected coupes de theater.I only wish the story of the villain, I am not disclosing the identity, was explored a little more in depth.
история очень "для кино" - ограниченный период времени, несколько points of view, ну и глубина примерно для полутора часов с ромкомом. как книга слабовата
This is the first book I've read by Sophie Kinsella writing as Madeleine Wickham and I was a bit nervous about what to expect. I absolutely love the Shopaholic series and had heard these books had a different writing style so was worried I would be disappointed by this book but I was wrong. A fantastic story with twists and turns the whole way through! I would recommend this to everyone.....give it a try you won't be disappointed.
Well, that was a waste of my time.I usually enjoy reading Kinsella's books, but this one was just bad. Really bad. As bad as Me after You. Do yourselves a favor and DON'T read it. Ever.
If you take it as chick lit, it's alright. It's not the best written nor proof read. The plot is just a bit stretched.

Purtroppo la storia non mi ha convinto per niente. Dalla trama poteva sembrare interessante, una diciottenne che impulsivamente decide di sposare un americano solo per aiutarlo a rimanere in Inghilterra in modo che possa continuare la sua storia con l'amore della sua vita, un altro uomo; a distanza di anni però questo porta di problemi quando Milly decide di sposarsi davvero per amore. Sì, forse poteva essere interessante, invece la storia è stata piuttosto stupida.Leggi di più: http://lalibreriadibeb.blogspot.com/2...
not a typical sophie kinsella book. because she wrote it under her real name ,I think she gave it an original touch of her in it. the thing I love most about it she almost gave importance to all of the character in this book, their back stories are amazing so can everybody can relate and judge them in a full con sense. It gets melodramatic in some chapters but totally worth it, not annoying at all. another entry to most favorite shelf.
I also prefer my chick lit to not be set in New York or London, and not to automatically have a horrible boss and a nutty best friend.In The Wedding Girl, we are in Bath, England, and Milly is about to marry Simon, the only son of a multi-millionaire, but Milly has a secret from ten years ago.
Like any good chick lit novel, we get nearly everything wrapped up at the end, but Ms. Wickham is brilliant in adding a few twists, and having at least one minor story line only partly be wrapped up.Madeleine Wickham also writes as Sophie Kinsella, and while those books sell better, I prefer these books.
This is my first Madeleine Wickham book and I was not disappointed.
I like her style a little better than that of Sophie Kinsella (and I love Sophie Kinsella!).
It's still mindless chic-lit fluff, but I felt it was a touch more mature than her Kinsella-style writing.
I enjoyed this book.
It was still a terribly predictable plot, with some characters that I really didn't care for at all (Olivia anyone?), but overall it was a quick fun read.
The last two books I've read were really intense so it was nice to rot my brain with a non-intellectual book.
Blöd ist nur, dass Simon von dieser ersten Ehe nichts weiß und so soll es wenn es nach Milly geht auch bleiben.
Wäre da nicht dieser Fotograf der Milly erkennt und der alles zu verderben droht.Ich habe mich wirklich auf diesen „neuen“ Kinsella Roman gefreut und meine Freude wurde auch nicht getrübt, als ich erfuhr, dass der Roman bereits 1999 erschien und jetzt nur noch einmal neu aufgesetzt wurde.
Die Wortwahl und das Erzähltempo hatte so gar nichts mit den Kinsella Romanen gemein die ich bereits gelesen habe.
As Milly deals with the repercussions, her friends and family are each forced to confront their own secrets and lives to discover the truth of who they are.I first read Madeleine Wickham a few years ago.
The plot lines are more complex, the situations more relatable.There were a lot of surprises in The Wedding Girl.
And that is a risk, because sometimes the people we care about the most can't see past our facade to really know the truth of who we are.The Wedding Girl was a quick, fun read that I enjoyed the whole way through.
Es ist natürlich schwierig jemanden zu überzeugen, der dieses Buch in erster Instanz gar nicht gekauft hätte.
Leider war es das dann auch schon so ziemlich.
Ich weiß, dass dies ein wenig krass ausgedrückt ist, aber soviel Dummheit und Naivität kann man doch nicht in einer einzigen Person vereinen?
Ich muss ehrlich zugeben, dass ich keinem gegenüber wirklich Sympathie verspürt habe.Alles in Allem würde ich persönlich dieses Buch nicht wirklich weiterempfehlen.
Es geht (wie bereits erwähnt) zwar runter wie Butter, aber ich habe mich sehr oft über die Charaktere, als auch über den Zeitraum (in welcher Zeitspanne sich alles abgespielt hat) ärgern müssen.
