https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53410.Blow_Up_and_Other_Stories
You play the divine trumpet, buzzing your lips on the horn of plenty, the jazz of words, improvising, taking a look inside, your fantasy being the fun stuff, exciting, the way you take a certain vision, say the room in a house, and come up with a story where the room is taken over by a mysterious presence.If the man in another story, like Blow-Up, starts saying funny, nonsensical things, then you simply ball up his talking and throw it against your imagination and the story slides into its rightful place.
When she saw that the balls of yarn were on the other side, she dropped the knitting without looking at it."Did you have time to bring anything?' I asked hopelessly."No, nothing."The story moves like a game with a definite plan.
I have his novels on my horizon, and I'm itching to read them, but I thought starting with a short story volume would be a good introduction.
In the past, I have neglected short stories, in part because of an early preference for huge novels that I could escape in for days at a time.
(Silly, I know - treating a short story collection as a literary cocktail party.)I'm very glad that I've shaken off those earlier views, because I found this collection to be captivating.
Some time between stories helps to increase the feeling of tension at Cortázar's approach.This is a volume that begs for re-reading.
I may not be sure which side of the glass wall I am standing right now and what exactly I am looking at, but I recognize that reality/ realism is not providing all the answers I need, and that sometimes we need a tiger roaming around the house for his own reasons ( Bestiary) , other times fluffy rabbits pop out of our mouths ( Letter to a Young Lady in Paris), an entire life can be told in a minute and a half of a jazz tune ( The Pursuer ) and axolotls know better than us what the meaning of life is: It’s that we don’t enjoy moving a lot, and the tank is so cramped – we barely move in any direction and we’re hitting one of the others with our tail or our head – difficulties arise, fights, tiredness.
"I prefer the words to the reality that I'm trying to describe.",says Cortázar.
Most of his stories can be easily classified as 'uncanny', because of his way of encompassing his characters in a surreal mystery, of which they think as reality.Time and Identity evidently seem to be the play things for Cortázar.
Even amidst these alienness and otherness, the closeness among the characters can be warmly felt and their dialogues echoing inside us.Will the story be invalid, if it was told in a different tense?
Blow Up Neither the protagonist nor the author reveals everything that has to be told about the story.
Okay, Cortazar isn’t for everyone - his sentences stubbornly don’t do what you expect them to do, and those readers resistant to the particular magic of language, that it can simultaneously be music and meaning, archaic and capable of instigating a profoundly new perspective, bewildering and grounding, need not proceed.
Those of you who have already closed avenues of readerly-possibility off, need not proceed.
Those of you who read primarily to have the book perform how you wish it to perform, rather than to perform the book according to the choreography of the author, need not proceed.
میلان کوندرا در کتاب «هنر رمان» میگوید که رمان، هستی را میکاود، نه واقعیت را و هستی آنچه روی داده نیست. اگر همین گفته را به داستان کوتاه هم بشود بسط داد، میتوان گفت که خولیو کرتاثار یک کاشف زبده است. گواهش هم این استکه کرتاثار توانسته امور غیرواقعی را در بستر واقعیت روایت کند بدون آن که ساختار داستان دچار اندک تزلزلی بشود. بدون آنکه به باورپذیری داستانها خدشهای وارد شود. داستانها به جز ویژگی غیرواقعی بودنِ کاملاً باورپذیرشان (البته که بعضی داستانها کاملاً رئال هستند) از حیث تنوع هم قابل توجهاند.
میلان کوندرا در کتاب «هنر رمان» می‌گوید که رمان، هستی را می‌کاود، نه واقعیت را و هستی آن‌چه روی داده نیست.
اگر همین گفته را به داستان کوتاه هم بشود بسط داد، می‌توان گفت که خولیو کرتاثار یک کاشف زبده است.
گواهش هم این است‌که کرتاثار توانسته امور غیرواقعی را در بستر واقعیت روایت کند بدون آن که ساختار داستان دچار اندک تزلزلی بشود.
بدون آن‌که به باورپذیری داستان‌ها خدشه‌ای وارد شود.
داستان‌ها در فضاها و همچنین توسط راویانی نقل می‌شوند که به‌شدت از یکنواختی به‌دورند و محال است خواننده را دچار کسالت کنند.
Cover of the 1968 Collier Books mass-market paperback (248 pages).
Öykü okumayı neden seviyorum onu hatırladım Cortazar öyküleriyle. Bulunduğum yerden uzaklaşıp bambaşka dünyalara buyur edildim. Hem de kısa kısa aralıklarla. Gezdim, tozdum, eğlendim, korktum, sevdim, üzüldüm, sonra evime geri döndüm.Sen çok yaşa(!) Cortazar :)
But the arc and voice are, nonetheless, immaculately formed.The Idol of the Cyclades -- Actually, in some ways Axolotl is the purest example of a technique repeated in many variations throughout this collection: a kind of bleeding-through of perspective until a switching of places (of characters, of perspectives, of times, of consciousnesses) has taken place).
Kinda great!The Continuity of Parks -- The shortest, simplest of Cortazar's "crossing-over" stories (and one that has essentially become a lame ghost story form in the intervening years) and yet there's a perfection in the actual idea of "the continuity of parks".
Having taken a bigger interest in Latin-American writers in the past few years, I was asked the question recently had I ever read julio cortazar?
I was then asked are you a fan of the short-story?
I was then told to absolutely read Blow-Up and Other Stories.
I found then vividly experimental in nature, and a mixture of all sorts of things, some surrealism, a strong sense of symbolism, a little bit nouveau roman, and the Borgesian fantastical.
I had to read the title story three times before before moving on to the others, it dazzled the hell out of me.
Subjectivity is a central theme in Cortazar's novels; the reader is at the behest of the narrator, whose interpretation of the picture-if indeed any picture exists-or if the narrator exists outside of the mind of Cortazar and the reader (which of course he doesn't), Cortazar leaves it up to the reader to interpret whether the scene the narrator witness was indeed an attempted murder, or a harmless frolic,  or just a mediocre snap-shot of a everyday scene with no special significance outside the paranoid ramblings of a mad-man.
سکوت نادیدنی کورتاسار
Cortazar roman ve öyküyü karşılaştırırken "Düzyazı bir boks maçı gibidir, romanı puan alarak kazanabilirsiniz ama öyküde nakavt etmeniz gerekir" diyerek tercihini öyküden yana yapmış.
Adam öykü boyunca gerçekten Axolotl oluyor ve öykü kertenkelenin bakış açısından bitiyor.Cinayeti Gördüm – Kitaba adına veren bu öyküde anlatıcı bir fotoğrafçıdır ve parkta orta yaşlı bir kadın ve genç bir çocuğun fotoğrafını gizlice çeker.
Akıldan çıkmayacak bir öykü gerçekten.Ele Geçirilen Ev - Aynı evde yaşayan iki kardeşin oturdukları eve endekslenmiş hayat rutinleri yavaş yavaş bozulmaya başlar.
Piere kız arkadaşının kendisiyle birlikte olmamasına çok sinirlenmekte ve böyle sinirlendikçe zihninden kendisini bile şaşırtan düşünceler ve küfürler geçmektedir.Hizmetinizde - Yaşlı bir hizmetçi olan Madam Francinet’e bir parti sırasında köpeklere bakması karşılığında ödeme yapılacaktır.
There was a time when I thought a great deal about the story "Axolotl".
Yes, above all I envied Cortazar's sentences, which are unique in their grammatical messiness, their organic connections, the imperceptible consequences of unfolding.
Those days I read "Axolotl" obsessively, drunk on the sound of "Ambystoma", "Port Royal", and "an indifferent immobility", sometimes three or four times a day, captured by that minute looking, that description in which the words are just a cake of dust upon what is actually a chthonic--slow--turning over and over.
But the particulars, that is where these stories sit implacable, where the concept cannot infringe.
While reading this book, I turned into the book, but remained myself looking at the book looking at me. Then I threw up a bunny who, it turns out, is creeping up behind me as I write these wor-
I read this collection of short stories together with the brilliantly translated "Cuentos Completos" many years ago and I was reminded of it yesterday when I watched "Blow-up" by Michelangelo Antonioni - a fascinating, nihilistic art film loosely based on Cortazar's "Las babas del diablo", the title story of this volume.
The film shows the world as an illusion and emphasises the thin line between art and reality and it closely resembles what Cortazar so often portrays in his fantastic writings.
As always, Cortazar offers a real intellectual feast and he excels at the miniature form of his short stories as much as he did in my beloved "Hopscotch".
I had the same problem with this book that I've had with most of the short story collections I've read the last few years.
I bought this book solely because of the story "Continuity of Parks", the only thing I had previously read by Cortazar.
It was because of this story, and because Cortazar is often compared to Borges, that I wanted to read more by him.
But it is extra disappointing when a book that starts out so well, ends up with a long stretch of stories that are just ok.
نکته: ریویوهاتونو قبل سند زدن کپی کنین که مث من نشین!ریویو:داستانهای آمریکای لاتین همیشه خوبن!بورخساش که محشر بود. از بولانیو هم یکی داشت که خیلی عالی بود. یه سری داستانک کوتاه هم داشت که اونا هم ایدههای جدیدی داشتن. با کورتاسار آشنا شدم و داستان آگراندیسماناش که اونم عالی بود.یه داستان هم بود درباره پلیکانها که خیلی جالب بود!
نکته: ریویو‌هاتونو قبل سند زدن کپی کنین که مث من نشین!ریویو:داستان‌های آمریکای لاتین همیشه خوبن!بورخساش که محشر بود. از بولانیو هم یکی داشت که خیلی عالی بود. یه سری داستانک کوتاه هم داشت که اونا هم ایده‌های جدیدی داشتن. با کورتاسار آشنا شدم و داستان آگراندیسمان‌اش که اونم عالی بود.یه داستان هم بود درباره پلیکان‌ها که خیلی جالب بود!
Even when I wasn't completely engaged by the characters and situations, it was hard not to be blown away by his sinuous, rhythmic way of turning sentences.
Like Borges, he operates in a territory where time and memory bleed in and out of each other, where reality flirts with the surreal, the magical and the menacing but is still grounded by the concrete, charmed details of everyday existence.
I can't think of many things as utterly mesmerizing as "axoltol" or "continuity of parks" and even the longer ones, while not quite as mysterious or fabulistic, are still beautifully odd and evocative.
Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v5bb8...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017There's gold for everyone in this amazing collection, showcasing some of Cortazar's best stories. Fans of the quirkier and more sinister tales might be put off by the more sprawling, epiphanic stories, and vice-versa, but what can you do - it's still a must read.
In this collection of short stories several stand out in my mind - Axolotl, House Taken Over, Bestiary, Blow-Up, End of the Game and The Pursuer.I was particularly surprised to find out that Cortazar was very knowledgeable about jazz.
The Pursuer is a 65 page short story about a jazz musician named Johnny Carter.
Chan Parker is Lan, Pree is Bee. Jazz aficionados will have no problem matching up the fictional names to their real life counterparts.
The first story of Cortazar's that I ever read was "La Noche Boca Arriba", roughly translatable as "The Night Turned Upside Down".
Time and again in this collection of brilliantly original short stories, Cortazar pulls the rug out from under the reader.
This collection, first published in 1967, contains translations of 14 of Cortazar's early short stories, as well as "The Pursuer", an exploration of a jazz musician's creative demons which the author dedicated to Charlie Parker.
Though the translation is not particularly impressive, this volume does convey the energy, dislocation, and menace that is characteristic of Cortazar's stories.These stories were simultaneously fun and disturbing to read.
Well, shit.
Now I have to change my opinion of Cortazar.
This was just too good.I'm fairly sure that in every picture I've seen of Borges, he's wearing a suit.
Imagine that old gentlemen instead in flip-flops and a greasy t-shirt, and you might have some kind of metaphor for the way Cortazar writes.
Our friend Cortazar is a lot looser with his language, but often that same Borgesian cosmic weight is felt in his work.
I'm not particularly adept at describing prose, so I'll just say it's good.
This was just too good.
This was just too good.

There is barely a weak spot in this entire collection.
As the stories progress, the fantastic Borgesian elements fade leaving us clasping Ariadne's thread amidst the no less bewildering labyrinth of "reality." (Always in quotations) If Cortazar wants your head to spin, it will spin.
He is a master of distraction, disorientation and perspective - expertly packaging the precepts of the Nouveau Roman in the short story format.
I actually wish I had read these stories before skipping and jumping through Hopscotch - as that novel represents a culmination in the progression of style initiated in these excellent stories.
I'm leaving Goodreads. This review is now available on LibraryThing, user name CSRodgers.
Which didn't surprise me at all, because the marquesa was absurdly generous and understood the world, a little like those omelets she makes at her studio when the boys begin to arrive in droves, and which begins to take on the aspect of a kind of permanent omelet that you throw different things into and you go on cutting out hunks and offering them in place of what's really missing." Which is a great image, but it bothers me that I can't figure out what exactly it is that's "a little like" these omelets.
I assume it's the marquesa's fruitless generosity: she offers money (in place of what's really missing) because that's what she's got.
Even the short stories which seem pervaded by a comic element preserve, in the interstice between words, an idea of tension, of restlessness.
However, some of the stories feel overstretched or overstuffed ("The Pursuer", "Blow-Up") and some promise you a knock-out but deliver little more than a friendly pat on the shoulder ("Bestiary", "Secret weapons").
Cortázar's mysteries can be alluring and he's certainly a very, very intelligent writer; but I can't help feeling that at least half of the tales in this book struck me as ponderous, disappointing reads.Still willing to give "Hopscotch" a go, though!
A while ago Molly was going to lend this book to me.
I thought this was strange at the time, a bit selfish, out-of-character, but I understand now.
Now I just slip it back into the row of other books?
No. I want it out a little longer.
I want it in miniature zipped into a secret pocket through the winter.
The stories make that same superstitious move, the headfake with reason.
This collection is notorious for containing the story that inspired Antonioni's Blow-Up but I think the 60s director was wrong.
