https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900087.The_Big_Honey_Hunt
This was one of the few children's books to be found at my grandparents' house, so it was well-read and loved. The nostalgia factor is high.
I hate how Papa Bear is constantly portayed as a bumbling idiot. My dad is at least the 3rd smartest person in my family and would have been smart enough to put on a bee keepers suit.
Fun story keeps new readers interested in turning pages.
I've read a huge number of the Berenstain books...like well over 20 of them.
The bears look slightly different from what I and millions of other children grew up reading and are familiar with.
Also the names are different as most of us know the bears as Mama Bear, Papa Bear, Brother Bear and Sister Bear.
There was no Sister Bear and Brother Bear was called Small Bear.The rhyming and the story were great and there were moments that had me chuckling.
It was just a cute story.I enjoyed it a lot and would read it again for sure.4 out of 5 stars
I like the pictures and I loved the story.
The Big Honey Hunt is such an early Berenstain Bears work that the B.
In this early reader, we see just how limited the possibilities for moralizing are without two endlessly squabbling, misbehaving children: we are reduced to learning lessons about the perils of amateur apiculture in the age of Africanized honeybees.*Though the Berenstains do a fine job presenting the themes of Papa Bear's eternal foolishness and sticking (heh-heh) to what you know, I'm bothered by two major plot holes.
That would explain why it's dispensed through a tap from a hogshead.________________*Regular European honeybees (Apis mellifera) don't chase honey raiders a mile over hill and dale merely for opening the hive.
I hate to say it, but the Berenstain Bears were more fun before Small Bear became Brother Bear and they got all moralistic and stuff. This book is a hoot. I read it to my pre-reading son last night, and after one time through, he was able to "read" it to himself in the car today, not getting all the words right, but making up his own to fit around the sing-songy rhythm and rhyme scheme and the bits he remembered. Excellent.
"I liked when they got honey from the honey store."
I actually read the classic edition (published in 1962), rather than the anniversary edition.
Kinda reminds me of my own Dad, who would rather spend all day hunting and risk bee stings than go shopping, LOL!A great spiritual allegory showing how we often like to do all the work ourselves, in order to prove we are self-made, rather than accepting what God has already done for us...
Now, there were a couple I enjoyed, but, we owned a lot of them when I was a kid and I remember them being really wordy and not much fun.
This book is the very first one featuring the Berenstain bears and it is adorable.
Pa bear is sent to the store to get more honey and decides to go on a honey hunt instead bringing small bear along.
Humorous situations happen and they end up back at the honey store right by their own home tree.
If you don't enjoy the later Berenstain books, you may still really like this one.
Nostalgia factor is high on this one because I remember reading it years and years ago.Papa Bear is always the idiot though. He can't just go to the store like everyone else, he needs to find honey out in the wild. And then proceeds to drag his son along on a dangerously hilarious journey. (I'm not sure those two words belong together).Fun and easy to read for beginning readers, this is a fast moving tale where the illustrations are half the fun. Not a bad book to add to the stack for your beginning reader.
I don't want to give a low rating to such a funny book by such respected authors, but this particular one wasn't like some of their others.
The drawings (of the bears faces) were a bit irritating - perhaps this was one of their earliest books, because the later ones look better (as do later Calvin & Hobbes).
Also, while the story was funny, the ending disappointed - that the moral of the story is that the only place to buy honey is from the store.
Perhaps this sounded wise in it's time, but today, perhaps they'd go set up a beehive in their back yard!
See what happens when the father and son of the (Berenstain) bear family go looking for honey. Father bear decides that they don't need to go to the honey store but rather go to find the honey tree. Humor results as they struggle to find the tree... and then get the honey! Entertaining easy reader story.
The pictures go over the crease. Stanley and Janice know where the maze is. The bear's search watched to ventured with his son. Problems happen so people need to be prepared and know what to do or who to call. Sometimes help doesn't come right away.. Housing and living spaces require maintenance.
I don’t remember for certain which Berenstain Bears books we had, becauae I know I read a few, but this is the one which sticks in my mind.
Really interesting to read aloud.
I can still clearly remember reading this as a child in the seventies. A true classic.
ATOS 1.7
I'm not a fan of the everlasting theme of Papa Bear being a jerky buffoon, but I do appreciate the way he starts to learn from his mistakes.
The modern economic system for children4 August 2013 I do really like the Berenstain bears, and this was one of those stories from my childhood that I read over and over again. Basically the bears run out of honey and are asked to go and get some more from the store, but Papa bear decides that he will save some money and go on a honey hunt by following a bee. However, as can be expected, his knowledge is far from perfect. Basically he thinks he knows how to hunt for honey, but he makes assumptio
Basically it is like Adam Smith's explanation of the nail factory, where people would be charged with different parts of making the nail so that they would become incredibly skilled with making their aspect of the nail, and that the nail could be made a lot faster than when one person had to make the nail themselves.
Mind you, these days everything is becoming automated, which means the people who were skilled in one aspect must now go and reskill so that they can get themselves into another job.
Papa Bear then lies about the honey from the honey store (where he had been sent in the first place) - claiming that good honey comes not from bees but from stores, conveniently ignoring the fact that honey at stores also comes from bees - but of course that would be admitting that someone was able to accomplish something that he was not able to do (again, something inconceivable to someone in the dark triad).The callous lack of sympathy toward other beings - presumably his neighbours - in a quest to 'be right' and to prove that he can 'do better than' the shopkeeper at the honey store shows classic characteristics of someone whose personality traits fall in the *dark triad, which includes narcissism, sociopathy/psychopathy (now called anti-social personality disorder) and Machiavellianism.
She tells them that they should just go to the store to purchase the honey but Papa Bear tries to collect wild honey instead.
After the bees leave Papa Bear and Small Bear exit the water and decide that it might be best to just by the honey from the store like Mama Bear originally insisted.
In the book Mama Bear told Papa Bear and Small Bear that they should go to the store to buy the honey, but the two of them were to stubborn to listen and ended up in a bad situation.
Fun read aloud.
It tells about how Papa Bear and Small Bear (who would later be called Brother Bear) go out to get some honey.
Of course, this has predictably (for those who know Papa Bear) disastrous results.One thing I noticed when reading this is that the art style has really changed over the years.
The bears are really very furry in these early books, with lots of individual hairs poking out from them, leaving them quite fuzzy looking.
Compared to the well-groomed, styled look they have in later books, it's quite different.
It's not just how furry they are, though–the characters are pretty unrecognizable.
Mama Bear, Papa Bear and their son Small Bear run out of honey and Mama bear gives Papa Bear and Small Bear the task of getting more.
She tells them that they should just go to the store to purchase the honey but Papa Bear tries to collect wild honey instead.
The lesson in the story is to just listen to what you are told, even though you may think that you have a better idea or you think that you know more about the task at hand.
Also, the book is more of an early reader, it rhymes and is nowhere near as wordy as the newer, $4 books.
(Tell the truth, I like all these older Berenstains better!)The little bear and his dad go out to get honey, but of course they eschew the honey store *right next to their house* and go on, surprise, a honey hunt.You can already tell that this Will Not End Well.
After a series of predictable mishaps, they end up (predictably) buying honey at the store after all, much to the delight of the little ones.This one is a *little* long for toddlers.
Save it for the older pre-readers, or the ones learning to read.
This is a great classic and one of the early Berenstain Bear books!
Don't take me wrong, I enjoy many of those too, but there's something about the first few books they released that are so appealing.
Reading Level: 1st - 2nd gradesCleanliness: portrays the dad as dopey and the mom as the smart one.**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
I'm kind of torn on my review for this book.The female child in me (figuratively speaking, you perv)
When they run out of honey, Papa Bear and his son go on an adventure in search of some wild honey. They encounter all kinds of wild animals before finally finding the honey tree. Unfortunately they realize where there is honey there are also likely to be bees, and end up buying honey from the store after getting chased away from the honey tree by the angry swarm. This story was cute, the illustrations are nice, and it is definitely a good early reader with lots of repetition and rhyming.
Warning: This book is actually pretty long.My daughter got a copy of this book with a bag of Dr. Seuss beginner books. This is actually written by the authors of the Berenstain Bears and takes place when Brother Bear was Small Bear (so, before Sister was born).Mama sends Papa out to get some honey from the honey store. Instead, Papa thinks he can get better honey from some wild bees and takes Small Bear on a "honey hunt."
