https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121927.Danse_Macabre
If you are like me, and you were kinda hoping to see, oh, I don't know, maybe a ZOMBIE RAISING or a crime scene or *gasp* a vampire execution, you might as well quit now while you're ahead."Dance Macabre" makes "Incubus Dreams" look like a tightly plotted masterpiece (well, almost).
It's astonishing how little Jean-Claude, the man who has lived with the ardeur for HUNDREDS of years, knows about the damned thing; every time we turn around, Anita Sue uncovers some new plot device that changes the ardeur into a new brand of metaphysical date rape drug.And don't be misled; these sexual encounters are by and large NOT consensual.
I hate to say this, but I think I am done with this author.I remember when she first started the series and there were monsters and plots all over the place.The last book was 800 pages of sex, most of it repetitive acts of fellatio from the main female characters point of view.
My first novel, unpublished, written while I was in college, was an erotic story about werewolves that had so much sexual content it grew into a full novel.But I would not try to pass it off as fantasy, and I have been very honest about the fact that my published novel is fantasy-erotica.Something that is 800 pages of sucking dick, is what I could buy at a pornography shop for two bucks, and in fact I have bought books like that.
At least 800 of those pages is Anita having sex with every single male she comes in contact with.Also, just like the book with the Mexican restaurant that was wrong, there is another blatantly wrong scene in this book.
Anita has an ultrasound to see if she is actually pregnant and the doctor runs the wand over her stomach.
Secondly, a quick swipe with a wand over the stomach wouldn't be enough for a doctor to just say "oh, never mind, not pregnant" when a test said she was.
She could have just said the ultrasound was done and came back negative, but she went into great detail of what happened in the doctor's office.
Anita has her sweeties, stop tossing spontaneous sex scenes.
I’m sure that having a sad relationship that keeps popping up may be an interesting twist to the story, but I could live without it.“I love you,” he said.“I love you, too,” I said, and meant it.“I hate you, Anita,” he said with almost no change in his voice.“I hate you, too, Richard,” I said, and meant it.ALSO:Richard has informed me he’s shopping for his white picket fence.I’m happy behind my black wrought-iron fence.
Here on out, every book is for adults only!Happy reading!
Really enjoy Laurel K. Hamilton and the Anita Blake series. That being said, I really enjoyed the first few books in the series because they were all about kick ass chick and a sorta interesting kinda mystery/thriller conundrum with some hot steamy scenes in the middle. This past book and the few before it seem to be all hot and steamy and very little advancement of the story. I still like Hamilton, but I enjoyed her older stuff much more.
It reminds me of the documentary about the porn industry I saw where one of the spokespeople said, “We’re all a big family”, directly before anyone with an STD or HIV as a result of that same industry was immediately forgotten and shunned.Oh, and if you like magical shit more than supernatural shit, this storyline (annoying Mary Sue who just wants to be loved who has to have sex all the time with different men whom she all loves and they all adore her or else) can be found in faerie form in the other series by the same author.Get ready to kiss your standards goodbye.
I wish Hamilton would just let Anita want to have sex, not be forced into a situation where she has to do it The idea of the adure could actually be a really fun fantasy but it's just over-kill and redundant now.
Besides Nathaniel, I could go on for pages about how I just don't like most of the characters in these books anymore.Basically, I'll keep reading the series (mostly because I can finish a book in 1-2 days no matter how horrible so I at least don't waste a month of my time reading this crap) in hopes I get a glimpse of what I enjoyed about these stories at one time....
But the plot of the book, the premise of the book and what made them entertaining was Anita Blake VAMPIRE HUNTER.
The dance troop doesn't even show up until the last 80 pages and again very weak and more sex of course.So...if you haven't read it and are a fan of this series do know you might be bored by it.
So that might be interesting...crossing fingers!If you enjoy stories about Vampires and werewolves, please pick up the the early books and you enjoy the stories.EDIT August 2012: I reread this book for the first time since I first read it in 2007.
I feel the book lacks everything that I love about the Anita Blake Vampire Hunter books.
I gave up after two hundred pages, bored nearly to tears by the lack of plot and the constant, very technical sex.
It wasn't even hot sex, which for me is like saying a knife fight wasn't an exciting knife fight.
The entire plot centers around the idea that Anita Blake is compelled for supernatural reasons to have nearly constant sex.
And after spending a couple hundred pages reading about said sexual encounters, broken only by lengthy naked discussions about the supernatural reasons for needing to have constant sex, I decided I had more exciting things to do, like cleaning the oven or rearranging my sock drawer.
Yes there is a plot but no it is not about raising the dead or slaying vampires.
This book is about vampire politics and Anita finding out more about her powers.
I think this is a book that was supposed to be much longer and that the publisher split into two since Incubus Dreams was so long and people didn't like it.
I think this book was done in order to build it all up.
I would recommend this one for true Blake fans so that you can see what powers she has gained or what the vampire political world is about.
Yes there's a plot but it's continued in the next one.
It honestly was incredibly boring after a while, especially the sex scenes.
I think a 12 year old virgin schoolboy could write better sex scenes than LKH does.
It's boring that the only sex that happens comes through Anita.
Everything takes place within a night or two & the whole plot can be summed up by "New vamps appear to provide Anita w/ new sex partners.
More sex while Anita tries to convince everyone that her way is the ok way." I want to like LKH's books.
If you want to read something fluffy & brainless, read some of the vamp books in the romance section.
The ONLY thing that caught my attention was the pregnancy scare.
There could have been so much more if the pregnancy was real.
Instead, LKH continues to bore through character interactions that does nothing and goes nowhere.
I'm tired of whiney Richard and Anita as the Whore of Babylon, with men of all races/species wanting to bed her.
Where is the character development?
Frankly, if LKH wants to write erotica, she should do so and do that.
If she wants to write urban fantasy/paranormal then do that.
She isn't anymore.I'm really wondering if LKH is working out her own sexual issues vicariously through Anita.
Anita Blake; Vampire Hunter and animator.
Cursed with the ardeur, Blake suffers through an existence as a succubus.
I really liked this book.
It is more erotic than I remember her other books being.
Book 14 in the Anita Blake, vampire executioner, series by Laurell Hamilton.
I've got the sense that this book is a connector building up to something very big happening in a later book - that it gives background you'll need to understand the books later on in the series.
It certainly seems that LH is not giving her characters peaceful, tranquil lives anytime soon.
Better than the last one.But like in most of the books in this series, I feel that there are a lot of stories still unfinished.
During the last few books Hamilton started a lot of separate little plots and I keep waiting for some of them to finish.
But they don't, I still have questions left form book 10 and 11 and I have a feeling that the questions that I have left form this one will be left unanswered as well.Ah well, it's still a very addicting series.
And in this book Anita seems to be understanding more and more stuff about herself.
This is what I could decipher as the new plot for the series: Anita must have sex with as many men as she can, at the same time and other people get jealous of it.
99 percent of the time, they want to do her so bad that they lose rational thought.Its so frustrating to have Anita, who started out as such a strong female heroine, blowing every man in sight instead of using her brain to stop preternatural killers.
But at least the sex adds to the relationships developing story line...
All Anita's leopards (except the ones she has sex with) were absent.
The meat of the story doesn't start until the damn ballet yet but don't worry, she's had sex many times with many men multiple times with an audience so that's 500 pages right there just to tell us each guys eye color so we can tell them apart.
One other issue, as if there's only one, this is a series and I know she wants each book to be readable independently but it feels like she spends half the book telling us crap we've already read in 13 other books.
There are at least 200 pages of eye color descriptions in this book alone.
You don't have to use this quirky little frase all the effing time.- Jean Claude keeps calling Anita "ma petite".
Stop calling her with the most annoying pet name in history!- These people love to talk.
Let's stop and talk about our feelings for three pages.
Let's first debate at length if he should tell those news or not and who should hear them.- Anita needs to take an anger management class.
The men in her life need to take a class called "how not to be a condescending asshole".
How much sex can one woman have in about 48 hours (the timeline of this book)?
This time around Anita fears she may be pregnant and because she has a bedroom full of lovers she has no idea just who may be the daddy.
So she spends a lot of the book angsting over it while in bed with Nathanial, Micah, Jean Claude, Damian, some random visiting vampire and on and on .
The book goes on and on about a big vampire ballet and soiree but then ends abruptly before the big party.
Definitely not a book I'd recommend to those new to the Anita-verse.
Besides giving her beast to Jason and Nathaniel in "Incubus Dreams" this is the first time the beasts have become so substantial that the lycanthropes are sure she will slip her skin.Anita learns the ardeur can read a lover soul deep, but that isn't common with Jean-Claude's ardeur, or Belle's.
All of her lovers besides Jean-Claude and Richard having been read that deeply - Micah, Nathaniel, Damian, Asher, and Jason.
But it gives new meaning to Anita's beginning with Micah, and the change in status with Nathaniel.
"What was wrong with me?
I was hysterical, that was what was wrong with me.
I thought about being free of Jean-Claude's marks, and all the metaphysical mess that came with it.
I thought about being just me, as Jean-Claude said, just me in my own skin.
I had a moment of absolutely joyous nostalgia for my life before I'd acquired so many people."I have to agree with Anita.
Essentially, the entire book is a series of short anxious arguments interrupting long bouts of violent sex.
The sex is boring; there's too much of it, and too much detail.
you know what I'm talking about..like a train wreck..or a bad car accident..you know coming up to the scene that it's going to be bad..you don't WANT to look, but you can't help but slow down and take a lingering look out of some sense of morbid curiosity.At its core, this is what the Anita Blake books have become to me and DM is no exception.
All of a sudden we find out (what, 14 books into the series?) that she's had lovers numbering in the triple digits and is afraid to live a happy life with Louie because she doesn't want to give up the possibility of future lovers?The character assassination of Richard continues.
All I could think while trying to read the newer books was how annoying and high maintenance Anita was.
I couldn't help but think that I would have dumped her ass a looooong time ago if I was a guy and forever labeled her as my "psycho ex." The scene with Augustine's mistress was priceless, I almost wanted to high five the woman.
When the woman defends herself, asking why she's the whore when she's only sleeping with one guy whereas Anita is basically sleeping with everything with a penis I wanted to kiss her!
The ones that came after Danse Macabre were not nearly as bad as Danse, but they still are not up to her previous standards.I am one of those annoying people who reads series in any old order because missing the back story doesn't bother me, it tends to intrigue me and send me off looking for the previous books to see how the character got from A to C.
But with this series I was warned to read the books in order or it would ruin some pretty phenomenal plot twists.
You need to start with Guilty Pleasures and move in order from there with this series.
Once again I shall make a list1) horrible sex2) screaming orgasms which show that LKH has no idea of what joyful sex really is like3) it was as if x1 000 0004) everything spills in and on everything.
There was none.Basically this book is something I could've written in my teens.
Something I thought was super tragic and super sexy without even knowing what good sex is.
Reading this book was as if this brown metaphysical goo spilled from the tight and wet depths of my soul and covered me with it's brown, so brown, gooiness.
See LKH, I can write like you too!
I really liked this book. It is more erotic than I remember her other books being. I actually read the first few in this series and quit because they were so violent and bloody. after picking this one up thought I am going back to blue moon and reading forward. Yes they are still violent and bloody, but now I want to know how all the relationships got so complicated and the sex became so good... Is that embarassing or what?!?
She’s sure that there’s no way to raise a child in between slaying vampires, raising zombies, and managing her ever-growing powers, but she may not have a choice.At this point, it’s pretty obvious that I would read about these characters doing laundry and find a way to enjoy it (don’t be silly–Jean Claude has people to do the laundry), but the plot of Danse Macabre is one of the weakest so far.
Also, bless Claudia, my favorite wererat bodyguard, who is bigger and tougher than any of the men, always has Anita’s back, and isn’t afraid to call people (mostly Richard) out on their bullshit.The character development, as usual, continues to be really good.
I imagine I was more enthusiastic about it the first time because I was just excited to be reading another Anita Blake story (obsess much?).**So.
I suppose I shouldn't have any weird feelings about Jean-Claude having sex with another man in front of Anita, but I can't lie about it, it really bothered me.
Not because he loves her and would miss her if she were gone, but because he wanted to keep his power?
I miss the Anita Blake who would have shot a hole through his chest for trying to roll everyone's mind :(I really do hate to complain this much, but this book just really rubbed me the wrong way the second time around.
It is my hope that after all the knowledge gained in determining the true power that Anita has and can gain that furture books will not have to dwell so completely on it and can have much more complex plots and interesting and new developments that so much captivated me with this series in stories such as Obsidian Butterfly and earlier works.
I do enjoy the characters and even though I think this book is a weak link in the series I am definitely hooked and will continue to read on and see what happens next.
Book 14 in the Anita Blake, vampire executioner, series by Laurell Hamilton.This book had a similar vibe to the Merry Gentry series - a little bit of action and danger, and a whole lot of emotional angst and metaphysically enhanced sex.
Basic plot: Anita has a pregnancy scare and accompanying meltdown while a vampire ballet has come to town.
Anita is part succubus, and has realized that she needs more lovers to feed on, but she's loathe to take another one.
The most powerful, original vampire (the mother of darkness) is starting to wake from a long sleep, and she's after Anita through dreams.
Ale pořád je to takové moje guilty pleasure.
Kdybych byla objektivní, tak bych dala jednu hvězdičku, ale někdy to je silnější než já.Musím bohužel konstatovat, že tenhle díl je fakt mizerný.
Ale pořád by se rozešla s každým, kdo by se vyspal s někým jiným než s ní.
Je tak pokrytecká až bych jí dala pár facek.
A myslím si, že by Jean-Claude měl přijmout postoj jiných vládců měst, měl by si podrobit svou lidskou služebnici, jinak ho bude stát spoustu lidí a nakonec možná i život.
Pořád opakuje, co jí na kom vadí a nakonec je ona ta nejnedokonalejší a nejnedospělejší osaba v okruhu několika mil.
