https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121197.The_U_P_Trail
This book was original published in 1918.
His first novel was published in 1904.
He became one of the most popular western writer and many of his books were made into movies.
The book is about the construction of the Union-Pacific Railroad.
The story is driven by man’s ambition to expand the railroad to the pacific coast.
Gray places his fictional characters into the history of the building of the railroad.
Gray does a great job writing about the railroad construction, but his weakness is attempting to write a love story.
Jim Roberts does a good job narrating the book.
I decided to read my first Zane Grey novel, The U. P. Trail, as a nod to my Father who loved and owned all of the Zane Grey books. This was an enjoyable, fast-moving tale filled with traditional Old West excitement. It kept my interest despite the fact that this is not even remotely my normally favored genre. And as I read this or that detail or plot twist, it was fun to wonder what my Father had thought about these things when he too read this book so very long ago. (My Father passed away in 1979).
Meet Allie Lee, the Most Kidnapped Lass in the West, and the sweetheart of Warren Neale, an engineer building the Union Pacific Railway. When she isn't being kidnapped and getting people killed left and right in her rescue, and when he isn't working on the railway and moping about her being kidnapped, they love each other truly, deeply, and sweetheartedly.I was surprised when the book ended. I thought Zane Grey had finally found the interminable plot.
OK this guy knows how to write an action scene, and he gets more that enough practice just in this one book. What he doesn't know how to write is characters with personality, plots that make sense, natural dialog, and pretty much everything else that makes a book fun to read. But hey, lots of people shoot each other in this book.
A young woman is rescued by a cowboy and a railroad man. Soon a rivalry develops between the two for the woman's affections. This is a typical romantic western in Zane Grey's distinctive style.
I began reading this book because not only did I want an account of what life was like in the old west, I wanted to hear it from the mouth of someone not as far removed from those days.
Main characters say offensive things without the reader being guided to see them as horrible for it.
He has a good way of helping the reader really imagine the character's looks in full with just a few sentences or less.
That being said, Chapter 10 was when I really started to get sucked in.Our main character, Warren Neale, was separated due to work from his beloved Allie Lee.
I have never read a book in which so many of the main characters die a violent death - except possibly an Agatha Christie.
Gunfights, train crashes, murders, knife fights, suicide, battles - one after another all the characters that you care about or dislike come to a sticky end until the storyline comes to an end - largely due to the fact that hardly anyone is left alive.
That said, this is a well written book with some great characters and a good deal of plot twists and turns.
My main criticism is that it does go on a bit.
An undemanding holiday read.
I rarely leave a book unfinished but this one I barely started. It was so, so boring and slow....I just couldn't keep listening. I don't know what people see in this author!
I liked it. It was the first Zane Grey book I've read. I like the older books. Good plot and reading how they worked on the railroad lines was interesting
Do the author’s views on morality (drinking, gambling, and bordello-hopping) reflect the tone of the Hays Office’s guidelines toward movies or is it his real sense of virtue that merely the suggestion that a young man was seen going into an establishment where the three “sins” took place was so damaging to his reputation that a match with a decent woman would be thwarted?
The primary protagonist is human in an incredibly vulnerable way—not just subject to a tragic flaw in the sense of Greek tragedy.
An excellent, fast moving tale of the building of the Union Pacific , Harassed by Sioux Indians the tale begins with introduction of Allie Lee, whose mother is killed by the Sioux while traveling within a wagon train on her return to the east.
Allie survies this harrowing experience and is discovered and rescued by a young engineer of the Union Pacific railroad.
Love develops and so does the story as obstacles loom in the young couples desire to be married.
Finally good overcomes evil and Grey brings to a conclusion an excellent adventouous read fron the early days of developing the American west.
Sigh, I haven't read very many Zane Grey books, but I am sure this is not among the best or else he would not have become such a popular writer.
Certainly this book had moments of magnificence, loads of action, and enough entertainment value to hold my interest.
The lyrical descriptions of the western terrain and the unimaginable hardships of the building of the Union Pacific were wonderful, and I would not be surprised if this book inspired the Hell On Wheels TV series, however, the love story was ridiculous and so very poorly executed.
Finally, the hokey dragged-out romance draws to a close...but then Grey tacks on the beautifully, sadly nostalgic chapters 36 and 37, so heart-wrenching, so awesome!
I thoroughly enjoyed this book even with all the twists and turns that teetered on impossible, it seemed to fit and I went along for the ride. Zane Grey wrote so poetically throughout this book but especially in a few instances describing a particular scene or describing a character's feelings or circumstance. This is a book definitely to read, you will not be disappointed. The ending was superb.....not often do I approve of an ending and the way it was handled is an epic snyposis. It is a masterpiece on it's own in the western genre.
I liked this book. The story captures much of the excitement of building the transcontinental railroad as well as giving examples of many of the different types of characters that built it. It has a love story mixed into the equation and it has more ups-and-downs than a soap opera! Some of this book is dated with its characterizations, but it follows all the old western movies that we grew up watching. The good guys are good, the bad guys are bad, and the women are either pure or fallen. All's well that ends well and the good guys win.
The first half of this book was excellent. the second half you wanted to just push through to see how it ended. A couple of times you felt like punching the main character in the nose. The supporting character, Larry "Red" King was probably the best character of the book. I would like to read a story from his point of view. A rough gun toting rough Texan somewhat wrongfully accused in earlier life. Some what similar it Grey's "Lone Star Ranger" character.
Goodness the angst. I think Zane Grey is the grandfather of the genre.Neale saves Allie. Then he loses her. Then she saves herself. Then he loses her again. Ugh. the drama. Eventually she is safe and sound. Happily ever after ensues.Also in this story is a very detailed story of the beginning of the railroad going the whole way across America. If that something that you are into, then this book will fascinate you.Warning: this book contains some racist language.
The book covers all aspects of the building of the transcontinental railroad including the driving of the last spike at Promontory Point (I've been there). The story concerns the section of the railroad between Omaha, Nebraska and Promontory, Utah and the characters include engineers, Indians, mountain men, Irish laborers, settlers and the inhabitants of the railroad/gambling camps.
A typical Zane Grey western novel with the steady hero and the vulnerable heroine winning out in the end against the drama of the building of the transcontinental railroad, the greatest American engineering feat of the 19th century. An enjoyable read, as I haven't read a Zane Grey western in some years.
I loved this account of the men that moved the Union Pacific from the East toward Promontory Point. The surveying methods used were primitive, but to get a railroad across that kind of terrain and cross that kind of distance is amazing.
From my notes:Neale finds Allie, and tries to take care of her. He works on the R.R. He loses Allie several times. Each time he finds her. He ends up as a gambler among other things in Benton, Red King. His cowboy friend, brother of King Fisher, he almost kills.
I don't expect this is as good as I remember but when I was eleven years old I loved this book. I was so shocked when one of the most important characters [in my eyes] got shot, i cried and cried. Happy memory of childhood.
A lot going in this tale. Almost a little too much. How many times can one loose someone? A typical Zane read. Lots of descriptive details.
A delightful and refreshing story about life, love, and sacrafice. Throught the lives of very strong characters, an examination of life that still rings ture today.
Started this, but left it up at the cabin, so it will be put aside (literally) until I can get back up there. Looooong first sentence.
Grey (and possibly his editor) really out did themselves on this one.
I enjoyed the characters and the description of the towns/time in history. The plot just went on and on.
Lirivox edition
