https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/669035.Village_Diary
And I also loved that life that Miss Read takes us into (though it isn’t easy) when people actually did things, used things to the fullest, vegetables were grown and preserved for colder months, clothes were used to the fullest and put to other uses when they couldn’t be used any more―not simply thrown, entertainments were of one’s own making, costumes for pageants were made, put together, not simply bought―how much more satisfying and happy that life was.
Ugh why do I love these books so much??? Nothing actually happens in them! But they're just so charming!
Just the world I want to visit when I'm tired of this one. It's hard not to make a few parallels to Tolkien's Shire. Mr Willet reminds me of Sam's Gaffer: "Proper twizzled up, I was after that row at the Parish Council. I went and earthed up my celery, on my own. That sorted me out a treat!' That virago, Mrs Pringle, is distantly related to the Sackville-Bagginses, and Arthur Coggs could be a Sandyman or a Pimple.
This is another delightful book in the Fairacre series and touches upon daily goings on in a 1950's rural English setting. Though the storytelling is similar to it's pre-decessor in the series ( Village School) the musings are fresh and original and always make me smile. Thankful to have discovered these books which always bring a few moments of serenity to my hectic day.
I adored this book. It followed the months of the year in Fairacre during the early 1950's-- Miss Read's diary for the year. Miss Read is full of wisdom, wit, and she is also so much like many women of today. She worries about people gossiping about her, she worries about her finances, she is afraid of mice and rats haha. I love Miss Read and her village and want to jump inside this book!
She has her hands full dealing with the new infants' teacher who is trained in all the modern methods and child psychology and finds herself chafing at the old-fashioned methods employed in the village school.
Miss Read must also deal with the cantankerous old Mrs. Pringle who cleans the school with lots of grumbling.
Miss Read enjoys the simple pleasures of village life though and wouldn't change a thing.
Miss Read has a lot of patience but she finally snaps in this book and I like her better for standing up for herself.
I will never like Fairacre as much as Thrush Green, but these are still lovely, gentle books for when the world is too much with you (as it so often is for library youth staff during Summer Reading Club!).
Aww an old fave! Gobbled this up this week late in the evenings of stressful days. Old fashioned, a bit twee but I love it!
I knew that this would be a soothing, quiet read (I think the in term is "up read") but I didn't realize how much I'd laugh out loud when reading it. Miss Read has a wonderful sense of humor and this epistolary (in diary form) novel has many wry observations.
Number two in the Fairacre series sees another humorous, relaxing and entertaining book.As we go through the seasons in the school year we follow the events, villagers lives, gossip and worries and of course the changing countryside.The characters are just wonderful and brought alive with humour and the illustrations.A gentle book I would recommend.
Another charming instalment of life in Fairacre. Have really warmed to Miss Read's wit. Great to see how the characters are developing in the series.
Miss Read books don't have much plot beyond the local doings of the village of Fairacre and surrounds, but she writes with an eye to detail the blessings of life and the small ironies of human nature which abound everywhere!
I think I have read all her books at least once and many of them, time and again.
This was probably the third time around for me on this one, but it still has plenty of charm and precision insight to make the re-read worthwhile.
She doesn't linger on those aspects of country life which are less than uplifting, but she doesn't ignore them either!
One of my favorites. Miss Read writes a monthly journal of the happenings in the school and village of Fairacre. The villagers try to bring together a new older gentleman in the village with Miss Read, much to her annoyance and irritation. Turns out Mr. Mawne is married, just had been separated temporarily from his wife. Other events include the hiring of a new teacher for the infant class, wonderful descriptions of how the seasons change the village landscape and holidays.
Miss Read is as charming and profound as ever. Her descriptions of daily village life and the thoughts of her narrator are comforting and relatable. Since the main character is the school mistress, there are quite a few sections about the philosophy and practice of education, plus some great meditations on the nature of life in a small, rural community.This is a very easy read, but not simplistic.
Much like the first book, Village Diaries is another year-round account of Miss Read's life as the headmistress of the school at Fairacre.
While much of the year is the same, a reunion with an old friend and a newcomer to the village provide plenty of drama.Many familiar characters appear in this book, such as Joseph Coggs, Mr Willet, and Mrs Pringle, with a few new characters appearing.
Most of the book is told from Miss Read's point of view, as she is the one chronicling everything in her new journal.
That said, Miss Read is tart enough in some of her observations, and sharp enough about her fellow villagers, to keep her stories from being treacly.
There's a slight dramatic thread, in that a man near Miss Read's age is new to the village, and everyone she knows seems to think he would be an ideal mate.
Miss Read thinks otherwise.
She also struggles with a new young teacher who's fascinated by modern educational and psychological theories.
But both, in their different ways, are sympathetic and honest stories about middle-aged women, and I appreciate that.
Because my family has had many school teachers in the past, including many who taught in one-room country schools, I wanted to read this book and be transported back to those days.
Our book discussion group has several members who are or were school teachers also, and they said some things about teaching have not really changed much since this book's account of Miss Read's year in her school.
Miss Read did not record her thoughts to make it seem as if she were perfect and others had many flaws.
I also enjoyed reading about her outings with her friend, Amy.
I love all the Miss Read books.
This one is a diary that covers a year where she is headmistress at Fairacre school.
These are all such entertaining reads - it's really too bad they aren't available in the library any more, having been sold off to make room for newer books.
I was happy to find some available as e-books; Book Depository also had a lot in paperback at reasonable prices last time I looked.
I highly recommend them for nice comfortable entertaining reads, without the "cuteness" that so many cozies have shoehorned into them.
The book also notes that people are leaving the rural areas and moving into the cities (which also happened in the U.S.) and the children don't seem to be able to concentrate as well as their parents did when they were in school.There's a yearly scriptural oral exam at the school but it's basically sort of informal.
If you're looking for violence and mass destruction you won't find it in this book but if you're looking for normal people going through normal and pretty much peaceful lives then this is definitely a book you should read.
I just love this author and this series. They are so incredibly charming and just enjoyable to read. The humor, warmth, and beautiful descriptions just transport you to a bygone era. This one definitely picks up where the previous one left off; I can see how the first 3 books go well together in a single volume omnibus. Just wish they weren't so hard to find!
This was my Classics Club read for November 2017. It took me two months to read because although I enjoyed every chapter I read, there's so little plot that there was no drive in me to finish it. Had I not decided to read this for Classics Club, I doubt I would have finished it but I'm glad I did.
The Fairacre series is my favorite comfort reading. This is the beloved school teacher's year of diary entries, full of the beauty and challenges of each season and the eccentricities of village life and constant care for each other.
More of Miss Read and the village. She has some interesting thoughts about the nature of a country/slower life and the urges it satisfies. Really loving this series. But if you want a book with plot and narrative drive, this one is not for you!
Probably not my favorite Miss Read book, but I always enjoy the visit to Fairacre
I adore this and all the Miss Read books. Beautifully written, cozy, but with that ironic humor and "edge" we require!
The Miss Read books took up nearly two shelves all by themselves at the library where I worked.
The story chronicles a year in the village, with her own personal observations that include an emphasis on school life, from her students to her battles with Mrs. Pringle the school cleaner.This sounds really dull and dry.
Miss Read is a wry observer who isn't afraid to poke holes into the popular notions of her fellow villagers.
This is a good book to give as a gift to an older relative who doesn't like "bad" language, sex, robots or sex with robots in their stories.
This book was a bit slow to begin with, but felt like it picked up around May. It read a lot like an apology of country and village life.
That's not so much a problem because the simplicity of village life is one of the things I love about Miss Read's stories, but at times it felt like she was emphasizing the grandness of village life to the deficit of telling the stories of the villagers.I definitely did not enjoy this as much as the first in the series and still prefer the Thrush Green series to this one, but will try the next and see what happens.
Felt like I'd been there before, but always enjoy her writing.
It was a warming thought -- to be part of a small living community, 'members one of another', so closely linked by ties of kinship, work, and the parish boundaries, that the supposed happiness of one elderly woman affected all." This book was published in 1957, half a century before the world of the internet and social media.
There is something comforting in the reading of it, which one does not find in technology or wireless communication.
This is the second book in the series.
It is Miss Read's Diary about Village life and her place in it.
They offer a new insight on old subjects...because, for one, this is set in a small English village and two, it takes place over 50 years ago.
I particularly loved these two offerings: "....is a source of joy to the 'child who is the father to the man'." and "I was very glad to climb into the sanctuary of my bed, and 'shelve life for nine hours'." I really have to wrap my mind around the first and can really understand the second!
Historic Fiction FascinatingI am really enjoying this series.
Miss Read's thoughts on these matters are compelling, and I found this to be a very interesting read.The only reason I'm marking this one lower is that there isn't as much focus on the children in this book, and that was what captured my emotions with the first novel.For some reason, the kindle edition misconstrued many words in this book, whereas book 1 seemed to be fairly free of errors.
