https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79.Coming_Into_the_Country
The priests he spoke to all agreed: it was the Mother of Grizzlies, Daughter of Alaska, the great Messiah-Queen of the prophecies who would restore the mighty Alaskan Empire to glory and lead Her armies out of the North to conquer the Lower 48.
Juneau was not grand enough, and Anchorage and Fairbanks still lay in ruins from the war, so the Prophet McPhee again set out into the wilderness, again with his shamen and slaves and government bureaucrats, to find a suitable place to build Her Palace.
A visitor comes with a shirt and a twenty-dollar bill and doesn't change either one.I learned that Alaska is a great place for nicknames: Pete the Pig, Pistolgrip Jim, Groundsluice Bill, Coolgardie Smith, Codfish Tom, Doc LaBooze, the Evaporated Kid, Fisty McDonald, John the Baptist, Cheeseham Sam, and the Man with the Big Nugget.
A place so vast and unpeopled that if anyone could figure out how to steal Italy, Alaska would be a place to hide it.This was another wonderful trip that John McPhee took me on.
The second section was about the attempt to get Alaska's capital moved from Juneau.
At the end of the section it really sounded like the move was going to come off; people voted and wanted the capital moved to Willow.
The women do all the cookin' and much, much more; wood choppin', skinnin' of critters, waitin' for the menfolk to come a-home from their trips.Maybe a few people sound relatively sane, but most sound a bit crazy.
Alaska is different.
If the Bureau of Land Management comes to tell me I don't own my home, then we have a problem.
For a change of scene, I signed up with some friends to work the salmon season at a cannery in Alaska.
The cannery was located on an island in the southeast of the state.
If my sense of it had faded some over the past twenty years, McPhee’s wonderful book has helped to revive it.
I suddenly find myself scheming ways to get the wife and kids up north on vacation as soon as possible.One of my college professors first introduced me to John McPhee.
My former favorite of McPhee’s books (among those I have read) was Basin and Range, but Coming into the Country is just as good.
Although McPhee, in what I've read, was an impressionable young man leaning to the side of environmental conservation at the expense of economic development, I think his writing in this book shows both a reverence for Alaska's brand of wilderness (in a word, awesome) as well as a sympathetic, humane perspective on the toll that Congressional protectionism, environmental regulation, and romantic idealism has on the lives of real families living in "the country".
McPhee's Coming Into the Country is rightly considered a classic with its detailed description on life in mid-1970s Alaska.
McPhee's writing style full of rapid fire quotes summing up various points of view is effective in conveying these contradictions.
Read nearly 40 years after it was published, I believe the book reflects an important historical slice of Alaskan culture.Despite the overall high quality of writing, I found that some parts dragged (I found myself skimming dozens of pages related to a possible shift of Alaska's capital city from Juneau to parts unknown).
McPhee divided his exploration of Alaska into three sections--the first, stage-setting section on the northern tree line; the second, uses the search for an ideal site for a new state capital to explore urban Alaska; and the final section, on "the bush," really focuses on the motives and lifestyles of in-migrants to the state.
I breezed through the first two parts; the relocation of the state capital (which never happened) in particular was literally a bird's eye view of Alaskan cities and their inhabitants.
While his book does not gloss over their less admirable qualities--a tendency toward paranoia, chaos, alchoholism, and particularly misogyny--he comes down firmly for their willingness to pit themselves against nature.
I love McPhee's writing.
I first read this book when it was published in part in the New Yorker, and again soon after it was published as a book.
I've read maybe ten books three times, so I really, really like this.First, because McPhee writes so beautifully.
He could write about anything and I would read it.
I've even read his geology books.
Not because I like geology, (I don't), but because I just eat up his words.
It is like eating chocolate, I usually stop when the supply runs out, not because I'm finished.Second, the people and the spirit that makes up Alaska.
John McPhee is one of my journalistic heroes.
I read him obsessively when I was younger and yearning to become a journalist myself.
This book, about Alaska, is perhaps my favorite, or at least the one I'd recommend to someone who has never read McPhee before.
These days, when everyone seems to have a severely truncated attention span, perhaps McPhee can seem a touch long-winded, but I completely disagree -- I don't think he wastes a sentence.
Read him on paper, not an e-reader, if possible.
Even better, take this book in your backpack and head up to Alaska.
Read "Coming into the Country" at night.
The Country lies around the upper Yukon River. The book induced aching for it. This one work teaches more about Alaska than any other source I know: Statehood demeaned Alaska, the Native Claims Settlement Act made a well-intentioned wreck, and the pipeline contorted it in good and bad ways that will prove insignificant over time. Most of all, the book made clear how painful the federal government's interference is to "whites and Indians alike" of The Country.
I read this book in the mid-80's. I was encouraged to read it by a friend who had lived in Alaska in the early 80's and knew some of the people mentioned in the book. I remember I liked it and found it interesting but I don't remember too much about the details.
A clear classic, "Coming into the Country" depicts McPhee's personal journey through Alaska and Alaskan life.
The book had been recommended to me by several folks as an example of accessible non-fiction writing, although it's certainly of a distinctive genre.
It doesn't, for instance, attempt to explicitly make sense of the cultural or socio-technical systems of Alaska, nor to tell the story of a particular piece of Alaskan history or environment - at least in a methodical way.
As such, I struggled to use it as a template for my own creative non-fiction writing...
“What had struck me most in the isolation of this wilderness was an abiding sense of paradox.
In its raw, convincing emphasis on the irrelevance of the visitor, it was forcefully, importantly repellent.
It was no less strongly attractive—with a beauty of nowhere else, composed in turning circles.
If the wild land was indifferent, it gave a sense of difference.
This was not a dare with nature.
This was nature.”I'll read John McPhee on any subject.
So glad I don't live in Alaska, and so glad I read this book.
Fantastic perspective of the land and the deeply curious and strong people who inhabit it.
They enjoy schussing down snow-covered mountains at 96 feet/second through trees and around boulders only to screech to a stop, stand up and walk away, just before going -over the edge of a cliff.
The second part of the book discusses the Alaskan government's search for a new capital and the conflict that generated.
Whereas before statehood someone could build a cabin 80 miles from nowhere, now a government helicopter might fly over and throw them out.
Homesteading no longer exists, but in Alaska that loss seems especially poignant in territory where you might have to fly somewhere to take a shower.
As for what was left over, Alaska became a land caught between "the Sierra Club syndrome and the Dallas scenario." McPhee had a way of showing the tension between two ideals--development versus preserving wilderness.McPhee does this primarily by treating you to a guided tour of the quirky inhabitants both human and wild (not that there seems much distinction between the two much of the time.) People in the bush, particularly in Upper Yukon, refer to their part of Alaska as "the country." Strangers appearing are "said to have come into the country." And few Alaskans he tells us about are natives, but once were those strangers.
Another wonderful book by McPhee.
Introducing the reader to a side of Alaska that I doubt many people think about, at least I did not.
There is more going on there than snow and salmon fishing.
And yes, Sarah Palin was governor, but don't let that dissuade you from plunging in.
I think it takes a while to get used to McPhee's style and this book tends to roam, but by the end it is all tied together quite nicely.
The characters are as unique as the geography and geology, many of them are beyond comprehension in my estimation, but then, I don't live there.

Traveling with John McPhee is always a treat, but this book is particularly dear to my heart because McPhee tries to capture a spirit and a mindset he thinks is quintessentially Alaskan. Can't fault him for that: he's from New Jersey. What he really captures is the Alaskan version of a mindset that is quintessentially Western and, because he's the kind of researcher who doesn't turn over stones without also tasting the bugs beneath, he does a gorgeously thorough, imminently readable job of it.
John McPhee has always been my hero and a writing mentor. He helped me form my definition of a good writer -- one who can compel a reader to continue reading something they would otherwise care nothing about.
Fascinating book. Tather than focusing on what makes Alaska "wild", McPhee concentrates on the people that are living and working within this colossal landscape and why they've chosen to live here. This makes it a much more rounded and interesting rumination on one of the last frontiers.
I know this is practically sacrilegious, but this was my second favorite book I read before I traveled to Alaska in the early 80s. My favorite book was Going to Extremes by Joe McGinniss.
I wouldn’t say I am particularly interested in Alaska (although, I am after reading this book!), and I definitely prefer fiction, but wow is this book good.
I’ve never been much for reading about the outdoors, I much prefer being there, but there is something about the way McPhee describes the mighty Yukon with its crashing cascades of ice floes, or the barren alpine plateaus with a cluster of birch in the distance that feels right.
Again, it’s his writing, his feeling of wonder and appreciation for the raw wildness of Alaska is visceral and feels honestly communicated.However, I don’t think this book would have merited a five star review if it had just been about nature.
The final section consists of profiles of the individuals who live in Eagle, with details of their lives and the changes going on around them as Alaska lost its final frontier identity.The first section is exceptional, the description of the landscape and his adventures is really absorbing.The second section is partly interesting but goes on for way too long, especially considering it doesn't state the eventual outcome, despite this book being republished.
Also the profile of the settlers, what they had escaped from in the mainland.A good book overall, but is quite long in places, it has given me a really good understanding of Alaska and the changes it and its people were facing in the 1970's
McPhee dissects with a fine hand the recent history of Alaska since its purchase from Russia in 1867, using research and personal experiences to weave a compelling story.
I particularly enjoyed Part 3 which deals mainly with the residents of Eagle, AK, population about 100 and sometimes less!
McPhee also tells us what Alaskans think of the Federal Government and their recent efforts to interfere with the lives of the residents.How little I knew of this mysterious and beautiful place before reading this book!
Since I combined it with a trip to Alaska, although not to Eagle, it had more force for me.

I don't enjoy most books about my home state of Alaska, because they seek to sensationalize the huge scale of the place and the magnify the characters it takes to live and survive in a place that is so large and still so wild.
McPhee's description of Alaska the place and the people are genuine and neither sensationalist or opportunistic.
This book describes an Alaska when it was less discovered and people were living as they wished away from the mainstream and advancing technology of today's world.
I read this slowly and luxuriously over the last three months, taking full advantage of John McPhee’s prose.
I have to admit to buying it on a whim and for the lovely Daunt Books reprint cover, but I’ll certainly be coming back to McPhee for more.
There are moments of stagnation, particularly in the longest piece ‘Coming into the Country’ - too much talk of planes, machinery and such - but the observations of human life on the last American frontier kept me reading.
I’m looking forward to his book about living for a year on a Scottish Croft next.
Written more than 40 years ago, this book is an eye-opening portrait of Alaska when it was still a real wilderness area, before pipelines, global warming and Sarah Palin.
:) McPhee's ability to get to know people and portray them in a kind yet honest fashion is particularly striking in this book, as he meets an entire potpourri of Alaskan types, from fur trappers and hunters to scammers and gardeners.
He also has a remarkable understanding of the perennial politics of the state, and the tug-o-war between those who want progress and those who want it to remain pristine.
This book is fantastic for anyone who wants to know more about Alaska and its tensions.
It was written in the early '70s, right after the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ('71) and shortly after statehood ('59), when the federal and state governments were sorting themselves out—and people had *opinions* about it.
The pipeline, regulation, and conflict between subsistence and cash economies create a backdrop for each of the pieces.
The titular essay—mainly about homesteading and the personalities of folks (white + native Alaskans both) who live in the bush/small villages—dragged a bit for me, but would otherwise rate 5 stars.
It took me a long time to really get rolling with this book for some reason, but once I got to the personal stories and narratives surrounding the impacts of TAPS and ANCSA on land rights in Alaska, I binged the last third of the book in a day. It's amazing that this book was published 40 years ago, but the issues it delves into are still at the forefront today. The writing can feel a little dense at times, but ultimately it's a compelling read that I would recommend to anyone interested in how the state came to be.
