https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59820.Homeport
It doesn't help that Ryan, the main guy, is a jerk nor that I figured out the main villain from the first time we meet him/her.So a thin plot and a main guy I didn't like coupled with a heroine who was more than a little bland but with moments of truly stupid naiveté.
So yeah, not my favorite.That said, I stayed up late to finish the book even if I can't really tell you why...
(view spoiler)[Particularly to get to the ending where Ryan takes two-weeks of no contact to come back to Miranda.
Like I said above, jerk.
Well, as awful as a book by Nora Roberts can be.
But this sort of thing is atypical of a Nora Roberts book.
If he falls in love (I still don’t believe he does) it’s totally by accident and I had zero faith he wouldn’t stray as soon as something pretty caught his eye.This story was a dismal failure for me.
Those were bright spots but they were far from the focus of the book, which is a shame.The narration was decent, if a little remote at times, with the exception of any characters with an accent.
Çok beğendim, bu ara aradığım her şey vardı bu kitapta. Nora nın daha eski kitapları bana her zaman ayrı bir tat veriyor. Gözümden kaçmasına inanamıyorum ama şimdi okumak baya iyi geldi.
Style and LanguageNora Roberts wrote with Homeport an enthralling and very absorbing novel, that I count to one of her best works ever. Miranda is an expert of art and has the once in a lifetime opportunity to examine a bronze nobody thought would really exist. The familys institute is famous and her mother very demanding when it comes to the institutes reputation. Mother feelings arent on her list and so Miranda has to do her job with a more than 1000% profession and leaving her feelings aside.
But her results don´t play along with the plans others have with her family or the institute and soon Miranda finds herself of her mother’s trust bereft ´cause another institute declared the bronze to be a fraud.
Together with the thief Ryan she starts to search for answers and finds herself right in the middle of a deadly intrigue and a hunt and she has to discover, that passion isn´t so bad after all.CharactersParents without any loving feelings for their children, a mother who hates her daughter more than anything else and a long kept family secret turn the characters in this novel into figures that are eager to discover the truth.
A verdade é que há quem aprecie o género e casos há que serão leituras bem vindas para descomplicar os nós das nossas próprias vidas e a aligeirar...
A sua família de origem italiana está muito bem conseguida, retratada com os apontamentos certos e/ou desconcertantes.
A verdade é que fazem sentir ainda mais as diferenças relativamente à família de Miranda.
Gostei das personagens no seu cômputo geral, vi bem explorado as suas qualidades e fraquezas, a ambição do querer/poder, das complicações de uma vida somadas a um mistério que se vai avolumando até se tornar sangrento.
A suspense by Nora.
Although, it's Nora so it's still great, I stumbled a few times over the characters.
Miranda is a very complicated woman.
His is the character I had problems with.
Meanwhile, Miranda, who is dealing with a lot of crap professionally, personally and romantically has someone stalking her and killing people.
It's a good story, and Ryan does finally come around, but this is another example of how if I was a character in a romance book, I'd dump the guy long before we reached the end and I'd never get my HEA.
In the end it was the execution of the characters that made this book painful for me and ultimately ruined the story.The worst of them was Ryan Boldari.
He acted like there was a warranty of merchantability on the items he stole, and that Miranda "owed" him because he didn't take what he thought he did.
She was getting threatening letters the entire book and never thought it was a relevant enough fact to mention to anyone.
While I wanted to feel bad for her due to her family, and I did understand why she was desperate for love, I just didn't care about them getting together or being together.
I am not a romance fan but loved my first Nora Roberts novel that delved into the mystical.
They predictably declared being in love with each story's heroine and she was pleased.Accepting flack from relatives was weak too.
I could not respect or buy a parent being unable to love them, especially kids who took after their interests and surpassed their expertise professionally and I cannot believe in a thirty year-old allowing anyone to order her about.
Como siempre el es hombre perfecto (a pesar de ser ladron jajaja) y ella es inteligente y una mujer decidida.
A pesar de sus conflictos ella se pudo reponer y finalmente aceptar el amor en su vida.En cuanto a la historia paralela y la relación de Andrew y Annie..
Ella me encanto cuando fue a la fiesta, me emocione y supe que se quedarían juntos.Los padres de Ryan, su familia, han sido perfectos, los ame mientras que los padres de Miranda y Andrew los odie.
A pesar de que ya tenia la idea de quien era aun asi la odie muchisimo.
Miranda annesi tarafından bronz bir heykelin dönemini,özelliklerini öğrenmesi için İtalyaya çağrılıyor,alanında en iyilerden biri kızımız ve heykeli inceleyip bir rapor halinde sunuyor,ancak çok geçmeden heykelin sahte olduğu ortaya çıkınca kızımızın kariyeri tehlikeye giriyor.Bu arada kendisine ortaklık teklif eden Ryan boldariyle tanışıp,ondan hoşlanmaya başlıyor.
Miranda aynı zamanda bir sanat enstitüsü işletiyor,bir enstitüye hırsız giriyor ve bir heykel çalınıyor, daha sonra kızımızın yatak odasına adamın biri giriyor ve sahte heykeli çalmasına neden olduğu için Miranda'ya kızıyor :D Tabiki hırsızımız Ryan boldari :DO sahneye bayıldım,adam hem suçlu hem güçlü :D  O zaman her şey Miranda'nın kafasına dank ediyor,heykellerin değiştirildiğini hata yapmadığını söylüyor ve Ryan'la birlikte asıl heykelleri bulmak,sicilini temizlemek için İtalya'ya gidiyor :D Miranda sıkıcı,soğuk bir karakter bunda ailesiyle ilişkisinin de payı var,o anası olacak zilliyi öldürebilirim yani.Ama Ryan şahane bir adam,komik,zeki,hazırcevap :D Zaten söz konusu Nora ise,gerisi teferruat :D
No tiene sentido contar el argumento con o sin spoilers, porque la contratapa de este libro se encarga perfectamente de contar toda la historia.
Así que ¿qué pienso de ello?
Miranda es linda y todo, vemos que en realidad es más compleja de lo que aparenta ya que la indiferencia de sus padres y la relación con su hermano la tienen marcada.
No me siento muy fan de esas personas que engañan mienten, roban deliberadamente.
No sentí nada entre ellos, porque él tiene una posición muy dominante en la relación y Miranda es un segundo plano (apenas se entera de nada).
O melhor livro alguma vez escrito por NR.
Não sou muito fã de Nora Roberts mas este é sem dúvida um dos melhores romances dela, tem tudo o que um bom leitor aprecia, romance, acção, mistério, crime, traição... É só escolher!
This was one of my first Nora Roberts and I loved it the first time I read it...
Ms Roberts did a great job at writing the different layers of Miranda.
I liked the contrast shown between Ryan and Miranda's families.In addition to love the characters, I enjoyed the plot as well.
However, it was still well written and handled :) I just like his character and wished to read more :)I also have to admit though that knowing the ending - who the real culprit was, it did take away a bit of the excitment and punch at the end.
Homeport is definitively a great book and a winner.
Opinião no blog http://howtoliveathousandlives.blogsp...Este é um romance misterioso e arrebatador, com uma abordagem ao mundo da arte fascinante, em que acompanhamos a vida dos artistas, agentes e galeristas, uma ode brilhante às obras de arte.
Quando se apaixona por Ryan, um ladrão de arte impulsivo e carismático, a sua vida nunca mais será a mesma.
Adorei as técnicas de Ryan para roubar peças de arte nas circunstâncias mais incríveis e a maneira como seduz Miranda.
Mais um livro de Nora Roberts que se devora com avidez!
Particularly enjoyed this because I haven't read a ton of Nora Roberts books, but this had an element of intrigue not found in others I have digested.
Enjoyed the Italian scenery and spotted use of Italian phrasing.
Roberts also brought the Maine coast to life as a setting here.That the hero of the book was a thief came across as different, and that I honestly could not predict how it ended was fairly amazing.
Overall, liked it pretty well!Good to read a stand alone book as so many have been successful series.
A cada página fiquei mais e mais embrenhada na história.Apesar da sua "profissão não oficial", Ryan apresenta-se como uma pessoa honesta (dentro dos possíveis) e com bom coração.
Tem a família mais maravilhosa e com os episódios mais cómicos e calorosos do livro.
Miranda, por seu lado, contrasta com esta família, sendo muito cientifica e exata.Deste modo a história tem o seu equilíbrio, o seu crime (típico dos livros da Nora) e a história de amor com as personagens a equilibrarem-se em todos os aspectos.
Conhecem-se os defeitos e fraquezas das personagens ao longo do livro, não só das principais mas também das maravilhosas que circulam à volta destes.
Adorei! Não há muito que possa dizer sobre NR, adoro tudo o que ela escreve eheh A Dama Negra é um livro super interessante e misterioso, que nos faz ficar apaixonados pela protagonista desde as primeiras páginas e por um certo ladrão responsável por muitas gargalhadas! É ótimo para quem gosta de mistério, romance e quer rir durante 409 páginas :)
At this point, I was figuring I'd just finish off what strip-covers I had left on the shelf. Lo and behold! The last one on the shelf is by Nora Roberts! Yummo! And, as usual, I was not let down. Fast-paced, fun, smart characters, interesting backdrop (the worlds of art authentication and theivery), steamy sex, some murder for good measure. Nothing amazing—but definitely good, solid Roberts.
4 but it's a bit of stretch, I actually really liked the book. But I have a HUGE problem with "okay" finish and I feel like I lost the tip of my nose. This one was better, but still a little more. But I think the beginning was a little slow to grab me so I couldn't rate it any higher because of it... similar to Hot Ice with regards to thieves and art.
Estuvo entretenido pero no más. No me pareció inolvidable ni mucho menos, para pasar el rato nada más. Prefiero otros de Nora.
( Emprestado )
Um dos melhores livros de Nora Roberts!
Não que tenha sido mau per se.... Mas muitas coisas deixaram-me de nariz torcido... Não descobri quem era o "mau", mas depois de saber foi um pouco anticlímax e demasiado batido... O fim foi demasiado delico-doce para o meu gosto...Apesar de tudo leva um três.. Já li muito pior e li-o em quatro dias..
3.75I had “the who” figured out early on. But the characters and the why, were very fun and interesting.
Muhteşem..Aşk,Macera,Polisiye harmanlı bir film seyretmiş kadar içerisine alıverdi beni..Başlarda bi
When I first read this book, Borders bookstore was doing quite well in 1999.
I didn't buy this book, instead I went to this store and read it.
I liked the story plot and the hero/ heroine.
Been searching for more than a decade and presto - it's an ebook now.Now granted I read this book when I was 19 yo (currently 36) so a lot of it is still foggy.
I liked the heroine and hero interaction.
And then it was pages of the heroine crying "woo as me." But the hero was great.
I recently re-listened to this book by Nora Roberts.
The story opens with Miranda being mugged and then traveled to Florence to authenticate a statue.
From the very beginning it was easy to see that there was tension in her family.
With a debacle over the notes and sent back home in disgrace, she went to work at the Art Museum with her brother.
With burglary and more disgrace coming out of Florence, Miranda holds strong.
With another death and much more research, someone close to the family turns out to be traitor.
A decent book and interesting take on the art thievery and family drama.
A good read, as usual from Roberts.
I doubt I'd read this one again, but it was good.
Definitely worth a read.
I enjoyed how deep Roberts delved into the psyche of the main character, and how deeply she takes the reader into the protagonist's family situation.
It did take longer than I would have like to "set up" and start moving, but what I consider to be a pacing issue is mostly due to personal preference--I like a story to move.
Build up is good, but I'd rather the story move at a steady (and not slow) clip while it's at it.
Mas acabei por lê-lo até ao fim, mais que não fosse, queria saber quem era afinal o assassino.
Bastante previsível, devo dizer, mas também fala sobre história da arte e da cultura italiana que eu admiro bastante, algumas paisagens rurais e marítimas dos EUA que gostei de conhecer e algum sexo pelo meio (bastante convencional, mas ainda assim aprazível) por isso, apesar da autora se demorar bastante nas 400 páginas com descrições, não é demasiado maçadora e a coisa lê-se.
Li algures que este volume é do melhor que a autora já escreveu, pelo que não fiquei com muita vontade de ler mais.
