https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11770190-a-study-of-history-vol-1
This first volume of Toynbee's 10-volume investigation of how civilizations arise, flourish, and die provides a fresh and exciting panorama of the whole terrain of human history.The first reference to Toynbee's work that I can recall was in Joseph Campbell's The Masks of God series, where Campbell, who as a young man had been a big fan of Oswald Spengler's The Decline of the West, makes a rather dismissive remark about Toynbee, whom he sees as being too attached to a Christian viewpoint.
This period is called ‘Time of Troubles’, at the end of which one of the states rise up as a supreme power at the expense of its neighbors and establishes a universal state, ruled by a dominant minority and its religion.
The birth of an independent civilization is attributed to be the result of mutation sustained by primitive societies whose number is huge while compared to full fledged societies that are intelligible fields of historical study.Having set the stage for all societies that ever existed to display their wares, Toynbee goes on to analyse what caused civilization to bloom in the first place.
I stopped after a hundred pages. Part of the problem was the free archive.org copy I was reading from was muddled, but even with that, his approach to history and morphology was absurd and not worth my time.
مش عارفة هو كتاب ممل فعلاً ولا دا عشان انا قرأت مؤخرًا في التاريخ كتير لدرجة اني زهقت؟
***1/2; vol 1 of 10.Very uneven work, including natural history and detailed geography of zero interest along with the sociology, anthropology, and philosophy - the history of Civilizations, and of History itself - advertised.
Dry writing, non-narrative, the author is undoubtedly extremely learned in many disparate fields; the work is filled with copious citations in the footnote apparatus, copious digressions, and what seems to be a nearly infinite grasp of fine, virtually irrelevant detail which, while possibly of interest to a specialist in other fields, is entirely out of place here and severely bogs down the work.I think a more detailed review is out of place and premature until I have read more than one-tenth of the work.
هومنظم وواضح .. بس لشخص سريع الملل زيي .. مش مناسب على الإطلاق.وفيه صفة مريحة بالنسبة لي، أن أفكار توينبي ونظرياته بشأن التاريخ وتكوين وسقوط الحضارات واضحة جدًا، من النادر أوي إن ألاقي كاتب أفكاره الأساسية اللي بتشكل نمطه الفكري واضحة كده في كتاباته زي توينبي ..أحتمال كبير أؤجل قراءة باقي الأجزاء لحين الخروج للمعاش .. يمكن أكون حينها أكثر صبرًا.
قرأت أول جزء فقط، منهج تفكيره المنظم جميل، بس التكرار وكونه معتمد على افتراض خلفية تاريخية تفصيلية مسبقة عند القاريء خلى المهمة صعبة إني أكمل باقي الأجزاء بأريحية، مكملتش الجزء التاني، وعموما هو هيكون مفيد أكتر أكيد لدراسي التاريخ ومنظرينه .. توينبي دماغه عظيمة وبنيتها واضحة من أقل حاجة تقرأهاله .. كان تجربة لطيفة، بس مظنش هزود فيها عن كده في نفس الكتاب، لكن الوارد إني هجربله كتب تانية أصغر، كتب حكاية تاريخ ..
Life changing.Highly recommended to gain a higher level perspective of current events.The landmark treatise on comparative history.
Perfect
awesome book.
