https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311129.The_Toll_Gate
but when it comes to tipping over the dibs there ain't a lock as isn't a hog-grubber."Frankly, it got pretty irritating after a while.The mystery in this book reminds me a little of Treasure Island.
It was kind of exciting as the book revealed the reason for all of the odd appearances and disappearances in this part of the country, and you had to cheer for Jack's determination to solve the mystery without hurting the people he cares about.3 1/2 stars, but it left me in a good mood so I'm rounding up.
A five * reread from my favourite author!This is one of GH's books that I like more as an older reader."Crazy Jack " Staple is bored with civilian life - and even more bored with the deadly dull family party he has been invited to!
Happening on a toll-gate in a lonely part of Derbyshire, he finds it "manned" only by a scared 11 year old.
This is enough for Jack,who is always on the lookout for another adventure.He takes up residence at the Toll-gate Cottage 
is probably my favourite of Heyer's adventure romances but the romance is better done in this book and Nell is better drawn than Harriet.
That is, it's attended, but by a little urchin named Ben, whose father is missing and who is deathly afraid of someone.Ever the adventurer, Captain Staple rises to the occasion and becomes the temporary gatekeeper, and falls smack, dab in love, with Miss Nell Stornaway, called by her grandfather's tenants "The Squire".
And perhaps the highwayman Jerry Chirk isn't all he seems, maybe, just maybe he will be the one to unlock the secret of the caves, and avert disaster.
Also, Jerry Chirk is a lot like the highwayman in Lorna Doone.

John, wet and tired and also intensely curious, decides to spend the night until Mr. Brean returns.
Mr. Brean has not returned by morning and John, always up for an adventure, takes on the role of toll-keeper.
John wonders if Henry Stornaway's arrival has anything to do with the mysterious disappearance of the toll-keeper and if so, what is the connection.
With the help of a highwayman with a heart of gold, John sets out to solve the mystery and protect Miss Nell with all his heart and body.
I mean, there are villains you are supposed to dislike and want them dead and stuff, but that's part of the story.
I can't possibly do it and its character justice, but the main reason I loved it this much is Captain John Staple.This is one of those stories where Heyer didn't take her sweet time to introduce everyone.
There's a protagonist who seems to be a trouble magnet, there's a young woman who takes care of an ill grandfather, there are real villains (not the redeeming kind), there's an eleven year old boy who really wants the captain to stay and protect him, there are great people working for the girl's family and so much more.Also, where can I find a John Staple of my own?
The Toll Gate was an interesting read and my rating is hovering somewhere between 3.75* to 4* for this Georgette Heyer work, the reasons for which I shall elaborate further in my review below.The best feature of this book for me is it's outstanding characterisation, which is typical Heyer, with an incredulous hero, equally matched heroine, a strong and inexorable grandfather, an amazingly natural urchin and a good natured highwayman ever ready to take offense.
Of course it is, it's Georgette Heyer!John is a champ, he's an oddball and can always be found doing random things, such as becoming the gatekeeper of a toll gate when he arrives at it by accident only to find it looked after by young Ben. So he becomes the gate keeper temporarily, taking on a new identity until he becomes embroiled in a mystery.Nell, is the granddaughter of Sir Peter Stornaway, the squire of the locality.
And she frequently passes through the toll gate, which is how she meets and falls in love with John.While the romance is a good part of this novel, unlike her other regency stories, it does take a passenger seat for once.
Heyer is in top-form here, there are a host of memorable secondary characters, and the language is simply wonderful.John to his mother: "I don't mean to offer marriage to any girl who don't give me a leveller.
And if one did," he added thoughtfully, "It's Lombard Street to a China orange you wouldn't take to her!"A little while later: He stood as though stunned, for he had received his leveller at last.*dreamy sigh*An exchange between John and a farmer:"What kind of knock-in-the-cradle do you take me for, dry-boots?
I thought you was a cawker.""You go and milk a pigeon!"Joe the groom to John:"I should say as there's three of 'em as needs watching.
More.Joe the groom about one of the bad guys:"Lord!
Heyer is one of them, and this mystery/romance works well.
All in all, it’s an appealing combination, and Heyer shows off her research in her use of thieves’ cant and dialect.
If your favourite Heyer novels tend to be the ones with mysterious highwaymen, capricious noblemen who don’t mind pretending to be commoners, etc, then it’s definitely one for you — more like The Talisman Ring than The Grand Sophy.The only problem for me was that I’m not very knowledgeable about period-appropriate dialects and thieves’ cant.
While I like the audio, I think I prefer the ebook, for this book, but it's important to read slowly enough to catch all the nuances
I liked John and Nell, also Ben, Rose, Chirk.I felt cozy and amused during reading.I loved the idea of toll-gates at the beginning of XIX century.
It was very interesting how it worked.The adventure/mystery was nicely invented too.It was rather fast reading.But...
Perhaps, because I wasn't much gripped by the mystery (although I could see its value).
Perhaps, I wasn't in a mood for such kind of story.
There was a big potential for another kind of Heyer's stories.
But then it became something different.I adored the most The Foundling as an adventure book by Heyer.
This isn’t a criticism in my book; I like historical fiction that is well rooted in the history of the times and doesn’t just put fancy-dress on a love story that could take place in any era.As befits an adventure story, The Toll-Gate tells the hero’s story more than the heroine’s.
The climax includes some events that may be distasteful to certain readers, and I could wish that Heyer’s ingenuity had come up with a way around them.This is not one of my first-rank Heyer faves, but I liked it better on this reading than I have in the past, and it’s a solid effort.
2018 ReviewSo. Much.
Regency.
Slang.
At first I felt triumphant because I was able to piece my way through the confusion but then I just felt exasperated.
It is enough to make your head spin!2014 Review Another lovely Georgette Heyer novel...with a bit of a twist!
A male main character!
A mystery combined with likable characters and that twist of romance, this book brimmed with everything that makes Heyer so delightful.
My main complaints are that every other word is slightly unreadable due to "cant phrases" and that all the characters introduced at the beginning play no role at the end.
Fun, light mystery featuring a restless former soldier who stumbles while lost onto an odd situation concerning a missing toll-taker.
The scene where he lays Nell's grandfather's worries to rest is truly moving; not to mention that Heyer is able to make this formerly active man felled by a stroke really come alive in the two or three scenes where he is actually shown.(view spoiler)[And while it is true that from the day they meet to the day they marry only five days pass, I can believe that with the tension due to the Kellands heir and the looming death of Nell's grandfather and her unsure future both Nell and John are willing to bet their all on their love.
Thoroughly, thoroughly enjoyed this book again.
Yes, the romance did seem to be a secondary story but the mystery was great and very well done.
I really liked Jerry Chirk.
A great character.
I was actually very slow starting off this book, but after I read, 'If the Captain was a tallow-faced twiddle-poop, mounted on a pair o' cat-sticks, I dare say he'd need a snirp like you to pad his calves out, and finify him', I was well on my way.
Heyer had such a way with words and she was an extremely witty writer.
Great way to start off January.
Another of the more adventure than romance stories, this involves the massive Captain John Staple finding a toll-gate where the man responsible has vanished and left behind only his young and frightenened lad.
This mystery intrigues him, but he decides to stay in the area after falling in love-at-first-sight with a young woman known in the area as "The Squire" because she has been managing her ailing grandfather's estates.As a romance this is fairly bland.
What remains to be settled is her problematic cousin, and the mystery of the toll-gate.
Nell gets sadly little to do, but if you read it as an adventure for John it's enjoyable.
Georgette Heyer's secondary characters are better written than most people's primary characters. I think that is what makes her such an amazing author. She is able to make even a character with only a little bit of time on the page seem like a real person. Even though the story was about Nell and Jack I was just interested in what happened to everyone else at the end also. A wonderful mystery with just the right amount of romance thrown in.
Another re-read for the hundredth time. This is a much gentler romance, and more derring do than is usual for later Heyers, so if you are new to her and want 'purer' romance then don't start with this one. I enjoyed it however, even though yet again I knew every bit of the plot, and it's one of her books that really showcases the secondary characters - I loved Gabriel Stogumber (fab name)m the Bow Street Runner in particular. A bit heavy-handed with the cant at times, but a great read.
Much as I love Georgette Heyer, the mystery is predictable and boring so please don't expect too much from that. The romance tho is as swoon-worthy as ever! I don't think Georgette Heyer is capable of writing bad romance. I don't know if it's just me or it's really getting easier to understand regency slang. 😂
This is a very enjoyable adventure, a great light read. I would have liked to have given it 4.5https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
The gate man is unaccountably gone, and only his eleven-year-old son Ben minds the gate in his father’s absence, but the boy is scared out of his wits.
Sensing a mystery and a diversion, John also feels sorry for the boy.
Although the action is building up slowly, John keeps his head through all the snafu and tumult, and in the end he slays Nell’s dragon for her.
Many characters, including the boy Ben, talk in atrocious cant, sometimes almost indecipherable to modern readers, but they all speak differently.
My first reaction was that she reminded me of Phyllis Whitney's very light romances that I read when I was 13-14 and loved.
The thing is, I am not thirteen any longer and I like my romance with a bit more bite.
Heyer has a delightful sense of humor, so you can read her characters with a soft chuckle and little seriousness, which is her salvation, in this novel at least.What I did love was the setting she chose, the historical toll-gate house and its surrounding environs.
I think I have re-discovered that I am a tragedian and like high drama far more than comedy or romance.
Book 67 2012 Reading Challenge--I listened to this book on tape, and as a result had the full impact of Heyer's absolutely magnificent dialog and vernacular.
What makes the book excellent is the different classes of characters interacting, hence various class vernacular, and the main male protagonist plays various roles in the story from different classes.
Regency period.Captain Staple finds himself taking over as gate keeper at the toll-gate, because the keeper has disappeared and left his young son alone.
So, he stays on and plays surrogate father to young Ben and gets himself involved in a dangerous, but rewarding mystery.
I also love the Grandfather in a way I never did before, as he struggles to live long enough to make sure his granddaughter will be safe and provided for.=========#86 - 2010.I have not read this for many years and, although I remember the main plot generally, it is a pleasure to renew my acquaintance with Georgette Heyer's sparkling wit and writing in a relatively unremembered book.
Somewhat predictable overall plot as to the villain, but Heyer's somewhat predictable books are head-and-shoulders above most other general fiction.
He soon meets the spirited Nell Stornaway and they fall in love at first sight.
Cue dead body, stolen treasure and masked villains.The romance is nice given how the couple have a lot in common and are immediately comfortable and happy with each other.
Both are bored and uncomfortable with society and wanting to tread their own paths.My main problem with the novel is that it's a little boring, lacking in Heyer's usual humor and the action is too slow for my taste.
I'm glad I read it, but I wish it was more fast paced.
Highly atypical for a romance, the emphasis here is more on Jack, his adorably adventuresome temperament, and the mystery in which he finds himself embroiled, and very much less on the development of the romance between the two leads.
I do adore Jack and Nell as a couple, and quite honestly I'd love to read more books about them.
If the book has flaws, they are only two: the characters who speak cant have long, long, onerous speeches, and Nell herself doesn't have enough to do.
I like my books to be either incredibly profound and meaningful or utterly outrageous and entertaining, and this book was neither *sadface*. It was OK.
Delightful Regency, more focused on mystery and adventure than romance.
The romantic pairing was also a delight, though: two smart, independent people who, upon meeting each other, basically both go, "You're so tall, and you're so ridiculous, and you're actually trustworthy!
♥♥♥" The constantly ticking plot was interesting, the secondary romance made me laugh, and the characters were a lot of fun even among the bad things that ensued.Some of the vocabulary I looked up:* a repast described as "Lucullan": lavish, luxurious (Licinius Lucullus had a reputation for luxurious banquets)* "bobbery": hubbub (from Hindi, bāp re, meaning "oh father!")* "epergne": an ornate tiered centerpiece
