https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1300800.Masters_of_the_Vortex
In fact, Dr. Neal Cloud is a human computing machine, performing feats of calculation unmatched by other mortals.
He is partnered with Joan Jankowski because of her expertise with computers, which are improving but are still no match for Cloud’s brain.In many ways, this book felt like an episode of Star Trek (TOS).
Dr. Neal Cloud starts out more like the Lone Ranger (with Joan as Tonto), but ends up with a band of aliens (largely female) who refuse to leave his side.
Of course, Neal and Joan end up being strongly attracted to one another.
This book is available on audio and I listened to it. I thought the book has some wonderful elaborations on the vortex and the MC. For that I would have given a 4. However, I found it very hard to keep all the characters separated on the ship. The adventures were really well done but the rest of the supporting characters very flat in my opinion.
Typically my one-star ratings are "Note to self: you started this and didn't like it.
You probably won't remember it, but don't bother with this in the future." Not this one.
It's crap right to the end.
(There was one semi-interesting chapter two-thirds of the way in, but that was it.)Nerds in love.
There was a line somewhere in the book stating that the protagonist was something like 'only the fifth-most important man in the history of humanity.'I listened to this because I want to complete the series, but this was an awful slog.
The series hasn't been good since book three.
The Vortex Blaster is a collection of three science fiction short stories by author Edward E. Smith, Ph.D.. It was simultaneously published in 1960 by Gnome Press in an edition of 3,000 copies and by Fantasy Press in an edition of 341 copies. The book was originally intended to be published by Fantasy Press, but was handed over to Gnome Press when Fantasy Press folded. Lloyd Eshbach, of Fantasy Press, who was responsible for the printing of both editions, printed the extra copies for his longtime customers. The stories originally appeared in the magazines Comet and Astonishing Stories.
A swashbuckling tale of a man that through a combination of circumstances is the only man in the galaxy able to blast atomic vortexes. The story is a chronicle of his adventures across the galaxy, where along with blasting vortexes he uses his knowledge of physics and his prodigy-level mathematically ability to solve crimes, rescue damsels in distress and eventually uncover the secret behind the atomic vortexes.
A good story, pacy as ever, however it is slightly divorced from the rest of the Lensman series which really ended with "Children".
Masters of the Vortex, the last Lensman novel by E E Smith, is not actually about the lensmen but takes place in the same setting, sometime between Second Stage Lensman and Children of the Lens.
He promptly discovers the secret behind the loose atomic vortexes so as not to be upstaged by the computer built by a woman.It’s a fun adventure, a bit more episodic and unfocused than the other ones in the series.
Although Cloud is a member of the Galactic Patrol, he’s a little closer to ground level than Kinnison in the mainline Lensman stories so we see a bit more of ordinary life on planets.
The hard science makes this not readily available for the common man, even with the 50 or so years from the original creation date to today.
I believe that the dated science actually works against the title rather than helps it along.
Written during the Atomic Revolution of the 60s SF era, the vortices probably could have been more modernly called wormholes or micro-black holes but the author seemingly wanted to cash in on the new atomic scare-wagon that the era had created.
Nevertheless, this wasn't one of the better literary works I've read recently and the score reflects that opinion.
Doc Smith stories are pulp Sci-Fi, and just so much fun to read. If you want action, heroism, and no moral ambiguity, anything he writes is for you.In this installment of the Lensman series, a man who lost his family in an atomic vortex figures out how to eliminate them. The story culminates in his harrowing flitter trip into the heart of the vortex.
In Librivox SSF collection vol 017. Another classic tale of heroic Sf from EE "Doc" Smith. Just what the doc ordered if you happen to be suffering from an atomic vortex outbreak threatening your planet!
The real science of today absolutely dates this book but I really like it.
This is counted as the 7th book of Smith's Lensman series, but although set in the Lensman universe, it's not a continuation of the main epic. Nevertheless, great space opera.
See prior Lensman reviews for expansion of that.Atomic energy in the Lensman universe has a much cooler form of pollution than ours.
That's so much cooler than just slowly-decaying radioactive waste causing cancer rates to tick up a percentage point or two over a generation.Our hero this time around is the only person who exists who can figure out how to destroy any atomic vortex.
This is yet another thing where I'm not sure if other sci-fi got there first, but it sure seems like Smith is in the running.Most surprising part of the book: "Storm" Cloud's (yes, REALLY!) ship doctor is a woman.
It was a rollicking good ride.
It reminds me of Jack Kirby's Fourth World, in that the plots are unpredictable in a good, mind blowing way.
It reminds me of Heinlein's powerfully unique characters who talk like no one really talks, but who cares because it's entertaining.
This last of the series is unique in that it makes the Lensman secondary characters.
Instead the story is more grounded in a relatively normal Joe's POV, seeing the Lensman universe more like us readers would if we were in that weird, wacky, wonderfully unpredictable world that grew out of the feverishly fertile brain of E.E.
Ahah! I thought at the end of #6 that we seemed to have reached the end of the Lensman saga, and that's partly true with the subject of #7. It's almost as if this is the start of another series which builds and focuses more on the purely thought based side of things. Still a great story and still keeps you wondering till the end about the story and the plot, but quite different from the first six.
It takes place in the same universe as the Lensman series, but is not really part of that saga.
However, one man, "Storm" Cloud, can do the calculations in his head, making him the one man in the universe who can fight this menace.In the story he gets a crew of aliens and fights gangsters, drug kingpins, etc.Atomic energy is not quite as dangerous in real life as it was in this book, and the story does not have the epic quality of the Lensman series proper.
It does refer to places and events in that series, so the story will make more sense if you've read it.
"Doc" Smith, PhD, was a hero to many of today's modern speculative fiction writers.
Now, it seems very dated in its concepts.I tend to look at books in much the same way that Heinlein presented things in "The Number Of The Beast" where every book of "fiction" actually exists as "reality" in an alternate dimension.
To all that gave these books negative reviews, open your brain a little and try to put yourself back in that time period (if you can) or think of these as alternate universes where humanity did NOT evolve along the same lines.
You might get a little more enjoyment out of them.
I was surprised when I liked this book.
Bought it at the Habitat ReStore, where I go every few months to scan for science fiction (hardly ever find any for some reason) and had never read any "Doc" Smith before.
I expected some of that ratchety old thirties kind of unreadable 'scientifiction' from that era because of the name, but found out the book was published in 1961 and that E.E."Doc" Smith was actually a read scientist who knew his stuff.
TLTR, book was good, recommend to science fiction fans, specifically golden agers.
Possible the worst follow up ever to s pretty strong series, this had the feel of Spaceballs 2 the sequal: This time its about money...(Forgive me Mel Brooks for what was surely a misquote by me, though I think it gets the point across)This is more in the vein of how Larry Niven writes more books in his "Know Space" arena, that are only peripherally tied in by the place and timeline in which they take place.
Unless you are a die hard who simply MUST read everything in a "series" once you start (like me) Feel free to skip this one over...
"The Vortex Blaster" could be much more than it actually is. Almost everything here is superficial. The characters are dull, the protagonist is some kind of "superman" that never got my empathy and the action is too fast for my taste. Except for the last chapter I would rate the whole book as "very much boring". I was almost sure that the story was not going to bring me anything special or worth thinking of, but I must confess that the ending is well done and much stronger than the rest of the book.
Not worth reading. Period.Set in the same universe as the main Lensman series but in an entirely different universe when it comes to plot, people (someone does use the Kinnison name in a radio message), baddies, locations, basically anything that makes a story worth reading. Billed as a sequel to The Children of the Lens it is actually a sequel to nothing at all. This is, beyond any doubt, the most disappointing book that I ever waited for.
Seems the earlier book I marked as this one was simply an introductory short story. This one has the whole arc.In someways this is a better read than many of the Lensmen books. There is more puzzle more story, the answer isn't always "more power". Its a nice side jaunt within the Doc's universe. The ending wraps up a little bit too abruptly but at that point some things are becoming obvious.
Another interesting story set in the Lensman universe. Obviously not part of the Lensman saga, it uses some of the technologies and abilities of those series of novels to explore an entirely different idea and new races/cultures. As a companion story to the Lensman series, it provides more of the same for folks who just couldn't get enough, but doesn't have any more depth than the Lensman novels, and doesn't have the over-arching plot of that series to save it from mediocrity.
Good follow on bookAfter the lensman series., this book at first seemed out of place. However having read it a few times after re reading that series, Masters of the Vortex did in its own way close the series. In a way it is a lesson we may do well to draw on as we seek intelligent life in the Cosmos. What we seek, may be very similar to us, but it could also be so alien we don't even perceive it all.
Sometimes you must go through hell to get the right attitude.Audio Book MP3 downloaded fromhttp://librivox.org/short-science-fic...Public Domain stories from Project Gutenberg, that are read by volunteers. I listen to these short stories while walking to and from work.Play Duration: 00:46:13 Read By: Gregg Margarite
The last book in the lensman series was fun and even though the main concept of an atomic vortex was kind of silly the story was to the same high standard as the first six in the series. Fun, a good light read from the 1930's.
I had heard reading Masters of the Vortex was like reading a bunch of classic Trek episodes, it's not.However the beginning definitely has a proto-SciFi Series Pilot feel to it and once it gets going it's a lot of fun (Lensmen style). I dare say it would make a nice little mini-series.
Not bad. Neat to have a story in the Lensman 'verse where Lensmen weren't the protagonists... and neat that he failed the Lensman test... but they why is he a super-brain that the Five (hiya, Children) chose to recognize/elevate?
A lot more could have been done with this story.
Read 35+ years ago - too long ago to recall much about the quality, but I enjoyed the series as an adolescent.
