https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9729017-the-island-of-second-sight
It was created out of nothing, and that has made it the worst calamity the world has ever seen.First published in German in 1953 to great acclaim, translated into various languages, and never having fallen out of print, The Island of Second Sight was not published in English until 2010 in a paperback edition by Galileo, translated by Donald O.
The book recounts the author and his wife Beatrice's self-imposed exile from the political turmoil of an increasingly Nazi-fied Germany by escaping to the Spanish island of Mallorca in the early '30s.
I didn't realize a German writer could be this funny.The description states that Vigoleis and Beatrice are "pursued by Nazis and Francoists," but this isn't The Hiding Place or The Diary of a Young Girl.
Before I start this review proper, I think this is an appropriate time to offer a word about Goodreads.
My children insisted I join Goodreads because, perhaps, they've learned that I would rather read books than have anything to do with real people.
Someone in real life who was also a Goodreads 'friend' told me I should write something, anything, about the books I was posting as 'read'.
Your writing is more compelling than most of the authors we read.
Yet, for a month and a half, Rod and Kris would 'like' that simple marking of time.
So I did a quick google…According to Wiki:  The picaresque novel (Spanish: "picaresca," from "pícaro," for "rogue" or "rascal") is a popular sub-genre of prose fiction which might sometimes be satirical and depicts, in realistic and often humorous detail, the adventures of a roguish hero of low social class who lives by his wits in a corrupt society.
Thelen is the ultimate authorial voice, Vigoleis is the picaro at the story's heart, and we, the Readers (were that there were more of us!) are often called upon to comment and engage with the narrative as it flows back and forth through time, memory, geography and the historical vagaries of the 20thc.
And Thelen, who constantly stands back from the story and makes comments about the events, characters, his mode of writing about them (yes, standard postmodern gadgets; but remember that this book was published in 1953), addresses his digressions and calls them his "cactus style", not merely because there are so many bifurcations in the text, but also because "eyes appear at unexpected places".
Addendum 1 In the German edition I read there is a 25 page Afterword by Jürgen Pütz relating much interesting information about Thelen the person, Thelen the author and the reception of Thelen's writings in Germany.
And “Puta la madre, puta la hija, puta la manta que las cobija” – the old Spanish proverb, that goes something like: “Mother a whore, daughter a whore and both lie in a whoring bed”, sets the tone.So the book comes as a colourful hybrid of chivalric romance and picaresque novel of an imposing intellectual range.“All at once several doors opened, and the hall filled with loose-limbed womenfolk who greeted mother and son in the most cheerfully salacious way imaginable.
My mother screamed; there were tears in her eyes.
Was she at all aware that there existed such a thing as professional immorality?
Vigoleis and his soon-to-be wife Beatrice go to Mallorca because she has received a death-bed telegram from her brother.
Soon Vigoleis and Beatrice are penniless dennizens of the island, moving in the circles of writers, artists, destitue hidalgos, ineffective revolutionaries...
Vigoleis writes by unhindered mental associations, so every story starts out with a topic sentence, then wanders throug several pages of seemingly unrelated personal history or comments on books he values, only to eventually circle around to a logical connection and the rest of the story.The reader is left adding dozens of books to the 'To Be Read' list, and lamenting that many of them haven't been translated into English, Pascoaes in particular, as that Portuguese writer becomes Thelen's lodestar.Absoutely highly recommended--you will underline many many fine passages.
The author, writing as his alter-ego, Vigoleis, recounts his many adventures on the island of Mallorca in the 1930's, during the rise of the Nazis in Germany and the run-up to the Spanish Civil War. Like Dante, he is accompanied by a Beatrice, and the parallel is not wasted on him.
The book is rather long, and the plot meanders, but by the third section or so I was so enamored of Vigoleis, with his breadth of observation and his linguistic digressions, and of his and Beatrice's quixotic trajectory, that I was pretty much along for the ride.
you know that old guy who always sits closest to the wood stove but has the best stories?
but the stories sometimes take forever to wind their way to the end, with lots of asides and funny bon mots between start and finish?
both frustrating and hilarious to be the listener, being more and more surrounded by this forest of narration that has magically sprung up via the story, and if left to yourself, you would die in that forest, alone, starving, no way out.
The structure of the narrative is subtly playful, the author refers to himself as an entity distinct from his own protagonist, discusses the adventures of Vigo and Bea in third person, then writes in the first person as the protagonist abolishing the previously established and flimsy distinctions between creator and created, and simultaneously muses upon the dual processes of remembering his own adventures and embellishing them (the later process he describes as applied recollection).
It feels short and is ultimately about the individual stories and the unique characters found within and less about the overarching narrative.
Disingenuous....You know that incredible floaty feeling you have once you finish the final sentence of a great novel?
I have literally never felt so furious after finishing a novel.
It reached the point of diminishing returns around page 500 which is the precise stage where you start getting an inkling, an insight into the true nature of the author's personna: the true horror of his mewling, vacuous, insipid, superficial observations.Anywayhoo, I shall now go and wash my brain out with some Terry Pratchett and return a more reasoned review after a much-needed time-out.
In the meantime, do not read this novel.
An entire life can be a shambles as a result of this predicament."The book chronicles German writer and pacifist, Thelen’s self-induced five year exile on the island of Majorca with his common law wife, Beatrice.
Covering years 1931 – 1936 this book will be better appreciated by those well-versed in 1930s European history which, alas, is not me.
Below are a few of my favorites:“We do good deeds with an evil heart, and we do our hating with the best of intentions.”“Conjugal happiness is an art mastered by the very few.
Ein ganz unglaublicher Roman, in dem barocke Sprachfülle und ein Goldschatz an Witz und Verstand im denkbarsten Kontrast zur braunen Barabarei stehen. Thelen ließ sich wie Arno Schmidt von und für niemanden vereinnahmen, Außenseiter des literarischen Betriebs.Habe das Buch vor 13 Jahren verschlungen und danach alles von Thelen, was ich bekommen konnte (aber die INSEL ist sein stärkstes Buch).Für eine ordentliche Review steht ein Wiederlesen an.
The main reason is that the Island of Second Sight doesn't invite casual reading on the couch after a day of work or even reading at the weekend for fun.
They strand in Mallorca and lead a hard picaresque life for the years to come until they have to flee from the island in the woes of the beginning Spanish Civil War.The book could be seen as a personal history but this would be shortselling it.
Accordingly, The Island of Second Sight gives us Thelen's view on life, on the world.
Nowadays, he's mostly forgotten.The Island of Second Sight without a doubt is a brillant work, Thelen himself is an intelligent storyteller.
I adore the wife of the narrator, an anti-Nazi German who ends up pennliess and nearly hopeless in Mallorca.
And one can certainly argue that the ending would not have had its power had we not gone through 750 pages beforehand.
But I bet it could have been pretty nearly as strong if we had only been through say 300 or 400 pages of development.I won't forget this book, and I can appreciate that others may find it powerful and finely crafted.
On the cover Thomas Mann promised me one of the greatest books of the Twentieth Century and I wasn't disappointed.
Read it for the great stories, but also read it for the narrator who self-consciously shifts from important to self-deprecating in a whirl of reference to German authors and philosophers largely lost on me.If I had one criticism, it'd be that the book draws to a relatively abrupt conclusion compared to the leisurely first two-thirds of the memoir.
It's almost like Thelen realized he had a few thousand manuscript pages and he'd probably better wrap things up.
(3.5) Ultimately, there are two types of books after you finish reading: those that you keep for inspiration and those that you don't.
This is a keeper, despite the fact that only about half of the book is recommendable.
This picaresque and intellectual memoir of expats navigating Mallorcan life flies off the rails halfway through, and it never can completely resurrect the earlier magic, even with the tendrils of Hitler working their way towards our legendary couple.
Fans of Knausgard will find much to like in the equally witty and fallible Vigoleis, and students of philosophy and literature will enjoy his insights and experiences within those realms.
Bijzonder boek over bijzondere personen in aanloop naar de tweede wereldoorlog, speelt zich voornamelijk af op Mallorca, zie mijn recensie http://jkleest.nl/2016/05/13/eiland-t...
Fünf Wochen sind es jetzt seit ich untergetaucht bin in die Welt des Vigoleis auf der Insel Mallorca in den 30er Jahren, mit Schmugglern, Huren, anarchistischen Grafen, Dichter, Nazis, Falangisten.
Es wird so von ihm beschrieben: "...es bilden sich Ableger, ins Wilde hinein, wie beim Kaktus, der gerade da Augen setzt, wo man sie nicht erwartet."Über Nazi Deutschland schreibt er u.A.: "Hätten am Tage von Hitlers Machtergreifung alle Menschen in Deutschland, die sich für Christen ausgaben, im Geiste des Christentums gehandelt, dann wäre das Ebenbild des Herrn in eine Heilanstalt gewandert und dort auf Kosten der Gesellschaft bis ans Lebensende versorgt worden.
EINDELIJK
It's 1100 pages of a novel/memoir/discourse of six years in the life of the author spent on Mallorca right before WWII.
It's hard to tell, but I think it's probably more memoir than novel.
I loved the way he gives permission to the reader at times to just quit reading.
I loved the vocabulary, the allusions to writers and philosphers, the self-degradation, the humor, the characters he meets along the way.
For the first 900 pages, I read quickly, hungrily.
Then when I got to a point that the end was in sight, I slowed down.
I didn't want it to end.
But it’s getting late, and he’s getting repetitive.
His puns are feeling cornier, his winking more annoying, his differentiation of his narrator from his protagonist cloying.
This is how I felt as I neared the end of Book 2 (p.
It was time to say goodnight.I think I’d like to spend more evenings with Thelen, his narrator, his protagonist, and their tales, but probably not for a while, and probably one evening at a time.
So I'm putting the book on my new "Ongoing" shelf.
Proved to be be one of the toughest reads for me in a long time. Very picaresque, characters flying in and out of the story, vast amounts of details dripping from each sentence. Thelen rarely describes locations in detail, instead preferring to spend all of his narrative skills/time describing people - and how he feels about them. While there are many laugh-out-loud moments, I find myself needing to take breaks to absorb.Glad to have experienced this long, but complex and thrilling journey.
Ich habe in meinem Blog eine Rezension veröffentlicht.
4.5 - lovely read, if a bit overlong. hilarious, peripatetic, picturesque.
Wenn ein Buch unter Hinweis auf Thomas Mann als eines der besten Bücher des 20.
Das war übrigens auch die Ansicht der meisten Kritiker, als das Buch in den 50er Jahren herauskam.
So war er einer der letzten Sekretäre von Harry Graf Keßler, der hier allerdings nur als Slapstickfigur dient, um Thelen in ein lustiges Licht zu stellen.
Weiterhin ist der Witz des Autors oftmals von übertriebenen Abschweifungen geprägt, die in den 50ern sicherlich neu waren, inzwischen aber durch die Autoren der 60er und 70er (Arno Schmidt, Henscheid pp.) dermaßen ausgeleiert worden sind, das der Witz verloren geht, wofür der Autor natürlich nichts kann.
"Vigoleis" Thelen's huge work starts and ends on a ship taking he and his wife Beatrice to and from the island of Mallorca.
"Vigoleis" is a self proclaimed German Catholic Atheist, Inventor, Writer and antiReichist.
He watches as the island becomes a port of call for the first waves of refugees from the Fatherland.
He is a chatterbox with multitudinous observations which can be hilarious, or completely inscrutable given my limitations with classical German philosophy and theology.
Although appreciated by this Reader for the thoroughly committed antiwar, antifascist treatise that it is, "Island" was a task I was not adequate to and I skipped the middle 500 pages.
De eerste keer moest ik enorm wennen aan de wijdlopigheid, de taalvondsten en de onverwachte gedachtenspinsels.
Ik heb het boek weggelegd en later weggegeven aan vriend Stefan van den Berg.
Maar toen kreeg ik het luisterboek in handen en raakte ik juist verslaafd aan de elementen die me eerst zo irriteerden, mede dankzij de wat bekakte voorlezer Louis Houet.
De hond Dorus heeft er ook van geprofiteerd, want een dankzij Thelen en Houet liep een wandeling nogal eens uit.
Het boek behelst de memoires van Vigoleis in de jaren dertig op Mallorca en is 960 pagina’s of 50 uren dik.
(Respect ook voor de uiterst vlotte vertaling, het moet geen sinecure geweest zijn.) Albert ‘Don Vigoleis’ Thelen is een goedgelovige naïeveling die zich laat doen en laat oplichten door een uitgebreid gala aan Spaanse en buitenlandse creaturen, en die samen met Beatrice het weinige geld dat ze verdienen liever uitgeeft aan boeken dan aan triviale zaken zoals stoelen en een bed.
Dit historisch perspectief geeft dit boek een grote meerwaarde.De enige kritiek die ik heb op dit boek is dat het nergens naartoe gaat, de personages maken geen evolutie door, en tuimelen gewoon van de ene gebeurtenis in de andere (met de nodige uitweidingen - Albert Thelen kan énorm goed uitweiden).
With encomia from Paul Celan and Thomas Mann on the dust jacket, we can think The Island of Second Sight is either a great book or they were Thelen's friends.
It's in this elusive, amorphous area that The Island of Second Sight invites us to wander for many many pages.It can't be called great, I think, but Thelen's friends can be forgiven for liking it so much, as I liked it too.
First published in 1953, The Island of Second Sight by the German author Albert Vigoleis Thelen (1903-89) comes with impressive testimonials.
A mixture of novel and memoir, the first-person narrator, who calls himself both Vigoleis and Thelen and who also refers to this character in the third person, comes to Mallorca with his wife when they are summoned there by her dying brother.
White’s translation won the PEN Translation Award in 2013.) This edition of The Island of Second Sight, a handsome and substantial paperback, is a tremendous bargain; the book a limitless delight.
