https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7822895-the-millennium-trilogy
Kinda true.I mention all this as a loooong and discursive means of pointing out that the original Swedish title of Stieg Larsson's first novel is "Men Who Hate Women." To English audiences this book is, of course, "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo", which is fine, but loses the whole point of the first book.
(Which is why I'm taking the easy way out by writing up my thoughts of the trilogy as a whole, rather than each individual book.)The thing that immediately struck me when I started "Dragon Tattoo" was that the book -- especially the first hundred pages or so -- read very much like a first draft from somebody who didn't have much previous experience writing fiction novels.
These books are hard-boiled, crime dramas wrapped in a journalistic wrapper.I loved the two main characters, Mikael Blomkvist and Lisbeth Salander, the economics journalist who's made it his life's mission to expose the rich and powerful looters of the world, and Lisbeth Salander, possibly the most 'put through the meat grinder' character I've ever read.
Terrible things happen to women all the time, but here the author makes you look at them and understand that justice is not about what's right or wrong but who holds the power.
The world is in dire need of more Blomkvist and Salander's.
The value at the heart of the Millennium trilogy is suggested by its original title "Men who hate women." It has something to do with sexual politics, with the power dynamic between men and women, a power that, at its basest level, comes out of physical strength alone, without making reference to intelligence or character.
It led him into thinking deeply about gender relations, and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo trilogy is a meditation on the power dynamics between the genders, and how men feel about women, especially strong women, women who defy traditional roles and categorizations.
It also worked on the intellectual level, with ideas that matter.Read The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo trilogy.
This is one of the best crime thriller trilogies ever written and such a sad twist that Stieg Larsson didn't get to see the success his books had.A lot of people have seen the movies and understand the storyline but I would recommend reading the books as they offer much more depth to the characters with their personal demons and principles, particularly experienced by Lisbeth Salander.
Mikael Blomkvist, the journalist, is another wonderful character with his own flaws and like Lisbeth is highly motivated to uncover the truth.
I have to say I liked it, because it sucked me and I read the three books in little more than two weeks.
And they are long books.
But as some agents did say on Twitter some time ago, if this book was first published in the States, it would have been trimmed and it'd be better.
The three of them are too long.On the other hand, Lisbeth Salander character is one of the best characters I've read lately.
In general, Larsson treats better women than men.
Lots of women are great characters in the trilogy.
Didn't root for male first character though.
I began Girl with the Dragon Tattoo with the goal of understanding what there was about this book that made it so popular.
Lisbeth is one of the all-time best fictional characters I've ever encountered and it is her story that carries everything through.
I liked the Dragon Tattoo plot the best, the other story is a bit far-fetched at times, but often engrossing and believable.
The plot details are just that - details that sell the story, that make you believe it's happening as you read it.If you are one of the eight people in the world who haven't read these books yet, I do recommend that you get right on it!
Mainly because Stieg Larsson has created the most unforgettable character in fiction since who knows when.
Will you like these books?
If you like very complicated, detailed characters (and many many of them), a complicated espionage story, and fairly good writing that is both plot and character driven, I think you will.
Since I am absolutely NO fan of The Twilight books, J.D. Rowling books, Nicholas Sparks or Dan Brown, if you liked these books, you may not particularly like these books, but who knows?
Blomkvist was boring and I didn't like him very much.
And by the way, does anyone in this series ever make a commitment to anyone else, or is that just too conventional and 20th century for these oh-so-enlightened people?
I certainly appreciated Salander - great heroine, and any stars I give the series are for her.
But the rest was boring, the political message heavy-handed, the characters flat.
The first book gave me a feel for Sweden, but the rest didn't even offer much of that, except a lot of hard to pronounce names.
I wanted to love it -- people I love loved it.
All I can say is, if I am ever in a bad situationI would hope I could call on this young lady.DON'T MESS WITH THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO
Swedish people can feel all the concept brought around in these books.Let me tell you that this is a series and it would be totally wrong for anybody to rate each book differently or to make a certain good or bad opinion just after reading 1 book.
Larsson was a journalist not a writer so these books needed a very good editor but the marketers have again not allowed this to happen.Bit parts and pieces in the series are rather quite awkward.
قمة الأدب البوليسي .. حرفياً
Lisbeth Salander is a quirky, brilliant girl of about 25 who gets involved with a series of adventures with Mikael Blomqvist, a journalist.
In the second, they get involved with trying to find a Soviet spy who just happens to be Lisbeth's father.
And in the 3rd book Mikael and others try to find a killer for murders for which Lisbeth is blamed.The translation is sometimes forced ("hooligans"?) and there is a lot of detail about computer stuff that wasn't interesting.
Also, reading the three together in series means you have to sit through some "this is what happened previously" in the prior books.
These books were so popular that I just had to read them. I found them gripping but also frustrating and, at times, over the top. Too many characters, too many far fetched plots and crazy confrontations. But the stories set a mood that I found addictive. I could not put the books down until I finished them. I can definitely understand their appeal.
But mystery/thriller lovers should be warned: THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO contains only a small portion of what I would call "thriller." That is near the end of the book when Blomkvist, after figuring things out and confronting someone, discovers the hard way (the really, really hard way) that, as bad as what he figured, it was way, way worse.
Not surprisingly, Salander helps her, too, as she illegally hacks into the computers of newspaper reporters and managers, again, from her guarded hospital room.Of the three books in the series, THE GIRL WHO KICKED THE HORNET’S NEST is the best.
Genius. One of the best series I've read thus far. With such strong characters and great plots its not a wonder why this is one of the most popular series around. I can't imagine anyone being let down by these. I highly recommend.
For those who have not read the Millennium trilogy, this is a nice way of "one stop shopping." Begin with a "murder mystery," "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo." Here, we begin with journalist Mikael Blomkvist losing credibility and being humiliated for lack of journalistic integrity, all because of a set up concocted by someone whom he was investigating.
"The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest" follows up where the previous novel ends.
The other aspect of a set like this is "value added." There is an extra element here--a piece focusing on Stieg Larsson himself.
In the first novel, I nearly put it down until I got the part where he introduced Lisbeth.
Then it got interesting.
In the second book, it started out the same way as the first; slow pacing and lots of unneeded detail to the personal lives of the characters, like Lisbeth apartment-searching, shopping, etc.
Then BAM - I hit the middle and then it starts to get interesting, via the twist.
I actually haven't finished reading the third, but overall, Lisbeth Salander has to be one of the most interesting female characters I've ever read.
I blame Stieg Larsson, who had the gall to pound out a hundred thousand pages about a brilliant maladjusted hacker and her difficult friend the brilliant risk-taking investigative journalist, and then die before his editor could say, "Stieg, I get it, it's a vast technological conspiracy with child-molesting Russian mafia at the core.
Now let's get rid of chapters 13 through 487, ja?"Bottom line : great page-turner, wonderful character development, but unfortunately a chip off the Dan Brown block when it comes to plot and, you know, writing.
Thank you, Stieg.
I had always wondered about all the hype over Larsson's books and thought what would be so great about it.
These books are fantastic.
It's difficult to put down the book.
I finished all the three one after the other, within two weeks and i would advice everyone to do the same(not read within two weeks but take up the books together).
I do not have enough words to comment on Salander.
Larsson made history by creating her and we should all be grateful for that.
Salander would be remembered for her sheer strength, intelligence and attitude.
It's not often that I read a book or book series and am sad when I finish because I just don't want the journey to end.
I was really sad at the end of the Millennium series.
Larsson wove such an intriguing tale of Lisbeth Salander's life with a mix of political intrigue and conspiracy.
The books are long but savory.
It's difficult to imagine that Larsson just wrote these three books for fun and relaxation with no intent to publish.
I think the thing that saddens me most is his untimely death and knowing he is no longer around to craft the continuing saga of Lisbeth and Michael when I'm still craving for more.
Even though the thriller is not my favorite genre I liked all the books of the trilogy. The author created a quite different kind of heroine.She is somebody who is supposed mentally incompetent by law, and in spite of disgraceful family background, she is able to use her intelligence to carry on every part in the puzzles to solve. There are more interesting characters, some of them really evil and some full of courage but she is the center of attention as well as the plot.Recommended for those who love this genre.
One of my favorite series!
The next two books, The Girl Who Played With Fire, and The Girl Who Kicked The Hornet’s Nest, follow the same story arc, which is essentially a story revolving around clearing Lisbeth Salander of murder charges while they research the case of sex trafficking, and political intrigue in Sweden.
Again, the stories of countless women murdered, and tortured in the first book are deemed far less important to the plot than the fact that one woman doesn't want her secrets told.
Lisbeth Salander is someone whom I can relate to while simultaneously being way cooler and more mysterious than I could ever dream to be.My main complaint with these books is that (view spoiler)[Kalle Fucking Blomkvist has sex with nearly every woman character in the trilogy.
(hide spoiler)] In fact, I don't know how to read Blomkvist's character as anything but a male fantasy.
(view spoiler)[When Blomkvist broke into Salander's secret apartment in The Girl Who Played With Fire and promptly brewed coffee and prepared sandwiches I couldn't stop myself from cracking up.
(hide spoiler)]Good, entertaining books, not too dense.
Brilliant. Full of suspense and the characters are fantastic. This book will keep you on your toes and has a great ending which is very unexpected. Cant rate it highly enough
Not all easy to read, but very good, a real page turner and the characters are so well drawn and written. I only wish Stieg Larsson didn't die so young.
FANTASTIČNA KNJIGA!!!!
It is important for character development and further information about Lisbeth Salander, who becomes the focus of books 2 and 3.
It seemed odd that a person lying in hospital could still play such a strong and central role in the story.
It was nice to read books with strong female characters in central and active roles.
An important aspect of Salander's character, pointed out by many, is her refusal to accept the traditional role of victim.
This is a series of books that really needs to be read together in publication order to be best appreciated.
They are well written, with a wealth of detail - in fact, my only criticism is that at times there was slightly too much attention to trifling matters and a slight tendency to overdo the recapping of previous plot lines; necessary, I suppose, if you are inexplicably reading the books out of order, but a bit frustrating otherwise.The real genius is in the characterisations; Lisbeth Salander is the most original, refreshing and readable female protagonist I've come across in a long time.
The bottom line is this: It's a far better book than YOU could ever write, but not nearly as good as the very worst of Updike or Nabokov or Heller."The Girl Who Played With Fire" is about the extensive but inept efforts of the Swedish police to capture the perpetrator of a triple murder; about the efforts of Lisbeth Salander, who is falsely accused of those murders, to elude the police, while also eluding the real murderer; about Mikael Blomkvist's efforts to prove Lisbeth's innocence; about Lisbeth's hunt to find and kill her gangster father for a multitude of crimes that have impacted her life; and about sexual promiscuity and excessive coffee consumption.
