https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77661.The_Daughter_of_Time
Perhaps the oddest and best mystery ever written. Police Inspector Grant, flat on his back in hospital, solves the historical mystery of Richard III and the Little Princes in the Tower. I know, I know--sounds boring. But it isn't. A fascinating meditation on history, propaganda, prejudice and memory.
After reading it, I can definitely see why.For one thing, during the entire novel, Inspector Alan Grant is confined to bed with a broken leg and a strained back.
He also studies faces and uses his intuition to help him figure out who did what when it comes to crime.Now, however, he is beside himself.
A very old mystery, one with its roots in history which means it is written by historians, which means a combination of invention, speculation, and based only on whatever facts might have been expedient to use at the time.That is the basic introduction to this amazingly well written book.
"This is my brother Edward, and his wife Elizabeth their sons Richard and Edward, daughter Elizabeth...my sister Elizabeth, my brother Edmund and this is my son Edmund....no no Edward..."[image error]In THE DAUGHTER OF TIME Inspector Alan Grant is laid up in the hospital with a broken leg, and ooooooooh so bored.
Alan finds one face jumps out at him more than the rest...King Richard III of England[image error]...and the mystery of The Princes in the Tower.
Grant seeks what kind of man Richard was and who in fact killed the princes in the tower.My Review: Many's the Golden Age mystery that, viewed by modern eyes and filtered through epithet-intolerant lenses, doesn't hold up well.
This novel, published in 1951, not only holds up well but shows up many a modern "master" of the form.
This isn't some CSI-esque science class in blood chemistry or the digestive system.
The Daughter of Time was her last completed novel, and the last published before her death from cancer at the absurdly young (to modern sensibilities) age of 56.
Laid up with injuries in a hospital, Scotland Yard Inspector Alan Grant is utterly bored with nothing to do except look at patterns on the ceiling.
The Inspector has a canny knack for reading faces and as he looks upon Richard III’s portrait he doesn’t see a murderer, but more of a haunted man.
Through a great deal of research on source documents, testimonies, and evaluating written records Inspector Grand spends his convalescing time uncovering the qualities of Richard III.
An eye opener for how history is written to the benefit of those in power while revealing how other past events actually happened, not how they have been portrayed.
Richard’s defenders hold that he was falsely accused of ordering the murders, suffering an unfair blot on his reputation that has lasted for several hundred years.Josephine Tey presents the pro-Richard arguments in an unusual way.
It comes in the form of a picture, a print of this painting of King Richard III:
(hide spoiler)]It’s a unique way to present this centuries-old mystery, but unfortunately it often comes off as contrived.
This isn’t really a novel in the usual sense; it’s a vehicle for presenting a historical argument.
Okay, now I’m convinced King Richard III didn’t have his two young nephews murdered in the Tower of London in the late 1400s. *gives Henry VII the hard side eye*In this classic mystery by Josephine Tey, a laid-up British police inspector tries to prove, just for his own satisfaction, that Richard has been unfairly maligned by historians. An enthusiastic young American, an actress, and a nurse help out with his research. The novel ends up having quite a lot to say about human nature.October 2018 group read with the Retro Reads group!

I wasn't expecting such a faulty foundation to launch the "mystery."As Grant's bedside investigation continues, he becomes a convert to the "Innocent Richard" school of thought and his dialogue really takes on the tone of a smug evangelical to a cause.
Then there's the dialogue from nearly all of the characters about what they think or know or have read about Richard III (and Fam) that reads like a book report or an encyclopedia.
I even think that Richard III most likely was innocent of the crime, so I'm in partial sympathy with the agenda here.But it's simply a dull piece of fiction.
Alan Grant, in Tey’s novel, similarly wounded in the line of duty, is an actual detective/inspector, from Scotland Yard, who becomes intrigued by a portrait and begins to study—obsessively—the history of Richard the Third.While I gave up on understanding each and every royal relationship—you may have to be English to do that—Grant’s process is fascinating.
Rather than relying on the master narratives, Grant approaches the situation like an investigation and, with the assistance of a fresh and likable young researcher, locates artifacts from the actual time of the alleged murder of the princes in the tower.
Unlike Grant, of course, it didn't occur to me to start a research project into the life and legacy of Richard III, I merely cozied up with Tey's book and a good supply of tea and snacks.I can't even put my finger of why I thought the book was so enjoyable - part of me liked the characters and the banter, part of me liked the "mystery" element, even tho there is little mystery to it, and part liked the historical aspect of it.
I loved how Tey chose to format the story, how she disguised her research into the story of RIII as a hobby to pass time with.
We all eagerly selected books we wanted to read, but, naively, most of us chose works by Margaret Atwood, Fay Weldon Isabel Allende and other popular writers of the day.
Unfortunately, these works were being selected by every other book club in the country.But one woman wanted to read dreary, Russian classics.
By the end of my time with this group, I couldn't even be bothered cracking the selections open.The two exceptions to this were this book & a modern New Zealand classic, Season Of The Jew. Both of these books produced animated, thoughtful discussions & the women leading the reads did heaps of extra research.
The skeleton was also found where records said he was buried in the choir of the church.
Now the debate is on as to where the remains should be buried, personally I think he should be interred in the cathedral at Leicester, as he's been in the parish for 500 years.Apart from that I enjoyed the book the first time.Found out today that Richard will be interred in Leicester cathedral.
It's only taken two years for them to decide that he can be buried 100 yards or so from his last burial place.
OK, after reading To the Tower Born, I got really hooked on the Richard III thing and about him maybe being a murderer or maybe not.
So I read this book Daughter of Time, which went about attempting to prove Richard III's innocence in one of the most notorious unsolved crimes in history.
Did he really murder his nephews in the Tower of London because they were a threat to his throne?
Or has history painted a false picture of Richard III?
Now I have to join the "Richard III Society"!
4.5“It’s an odd thing but when you tell someone the true facts of a mythical tale they are indignant not with the teller but with you.”A modern detective investigates on Richard III and the murder of the Princes in the Tower... I swear, sometimes it's like there are books written for you and you alone. (But since I am a generous person, you must can read it too.)
I'm not sure how historically accurate the details of Tey's argument are, nor whether her evidence would stand up in a modern court of justice, but the case for Richard is presented in a convincing manner and makes a gripping read, mainly because the protagonist, Inspector Alan Grant, is absolutely convinced of Richard's innocence and hell-bent on finding evidence to support his subjective impression of the man, taking a violent dislike to Richard's most famous biographer, Sir Thomas More, in the process.
While I was impressed with the way in which Tey shared her research and sustained her reader's interest in her detective's quest for the truth, I often found the dialogue in The Daughter of Time lacklustre.
But the fictional element --the almost Dickensian characterizations, the dry humor, the narrative framework of the research and the elements of suspense built into it-- adds an interest to the book that a nonfiction account would be much less likely to have, and sets the book's carefully developed, step-by-step argument before a whole group of readers many of whom might not read much nonfiction history.Being a history major, I'd already read Richard III: The Great Debate, and knew that More's writing on the subject (which was slavishly followed by Holinshed in his Chronicles, and in the Shakespeare play) was a Tudor-inspired hatchet job.
Grant took the case to begin with because he was bored and bed-ridden and couldn’t chase live, motile bad guys.
It was easy to believe that some were written as propaganda commissioned by Henry VII, the first of the Tudor Kings, who felt a need to discredit Richard and the whole Plantagenet line.
Even the trumped up charges in the Bill of Attainder that Henry brought against Richard made no mention of it, and no chronicles written at the time said word one about the deaths, which very easily could have happened after Richard’s own death.
There was a debate on between a member of the department, and quite an eminent constitutional lawyer of whom I have long been in an intellectual sort of awe, so I went along.The topic of the debate was whether, if the Scottish Parliament were to unilaterally declare that they were holding a referendum on independence, that would be legal.
That copy has now been lent out to several people, I barely ever keep it for long before sending it on its way again, like all the best books that I think should be more widely read and enjoyed than they are.
If you can get The Daughter of Time as an audiobook, be sure to do so!I’ve long loved this book so much that I even dragged my husband into joining this buddy read!The Daughter of Time is the fourth installment of author Josephine Tey’s Inspector Allan Grant series — but you'd never know the novel was anything but a stand-alone when reading it.
On the second level, The Daughter of Time operates as a polemic: “Could 14 million history books possibly be wrong?” The conclusion that Tey — and her alter ego on the matter, Grant — come to is that, yes, they could.
This book had the potential to really engage me--it deals with Richard III and all the various permutations of the Yorkist, Lancastrian and Tudor factions in late medieval England, and it's not badly written at all.
Every portrait ever made has been the portrait of not one person, but at least two--of the sitter and of the artist--and the practice of reading a person's character through their portrait is an interesting one, though it must always be seen as very dubious.There are a number of other points in the book which show clearly that the author is not a historian.
It all makes for an interesting, if ultimately unrewarding, read.
4,5 estrellas.Josephine Tey aúna la sofisticación "British" con un toque de maldad y mala idea deliciosas.Muestra esa ideal campiña inglesa, con personajes entrañables y otros muchos excéntricos, hace gala de un sutil sentido del humor, te rodea de todo ese aire de amabilidad, pero deja entrever pequeñas sombras, una tensión que va subiendo poco a poco hasta hacerte incapaz de soltar el libro de lo mucho que quieres llegar al final.Es curioso, porque sus estilos no se parecen en nada, pero Josephine Tey me ha gustado por la misma razón por la que me gusta Pierre Lemaitre: la mala leche concentrada.
His friend brings him a collection of face portraits (Since Grant is interested in analyzing human faces) to pass time, and he becomes interested in a certain portrait of man who Grant assumed to be a Judge, but later finds out that it belonged to none other than king Richard III, one of the most notorious murders in English history, who killed his nephews to secure the throne.
Later, Mr Brent Carradine (an amateur historian researcher) join Grant in his quest and together they keep inspecting through the records of history to see if Richard was really a murderer, or was it a mere rumor spread by his enemies.
(At this point, everyone who has read at least one non-fiction book about Richard will be rolling their eyes at my question and muttering, "well, duh, isn't it obvious?" You may be excused.)It's a great basis for a mystery novel: applying traditional detective techniques to a famous historical mystery, and if nothing else, I loved watching our detective investigate Richard III like he was just some everyday schmuck accused of murder.
In the book's most infuriating moment, the detective starts out researching Richard by reading Thomas More's biography of him, and then like forty pages later he smacks himself in the head and says, "Great Scott!
While I do well now realise and accept that Josephine Tey's The Daughter of Time is in many ways rather massively speculative with regard to Richard III and the fate of his two young nephews Edward and Richard, the so-called princes in the tower (the Tower of London, to be exact), I still and always will have both a nostalgic love for The Daughter of Time and yes, indeed, continue to be impressed with and by Josephine Tey's narration and much of her background research (and of course by extension also her main protagonist, detective Alan Grant).
After coming across a photo of historical villain Richard III, Grant recalls the murder of Richard’s two young nephews and despite never being proven guilty of the crime, history has written him as a murderer.
With little to do, Grant becomes obsessed with examining the evidence against Richard in an effort to solve a five hundred year old crime.With The Daughter of Time, Josephine Tey (a pseudonym used by Scottish writer Elizabeth Mackintosh) wrote a mystery novel where the protagonist never leaves his bed nor is in any real danger.
I do love Josephine Tey. Alan himself is wonderfully well drawn, especially considering how little he actually appears in the books.
He is not a man who abides idleness, and, perhaps, not a man completely comfortable in his own unrelieved company.The book I Love Paul Revere, Whether He Rode or Not … , which overturns a great many school-bred misconceptions about American history, had less power to shock me when I read it long ago than it might have had I not read The Daughter of Time first.
Eh. From an academic standpoint, which was why I read the book in the first place?
Double-eh.The prose is smooth and easy enough to follow, and the insertion of historical facts is presented in a fairly interesting way.
It's obvious that Tey just isn't a fiction author.
But that's okay, I was expecting that.However, from an academic viewing, the book falls short as well.
Being a non-History major, I had no idea of what sources were accurate and which were fictionalized for the purpose of presenting the information in an accessible way.
You know what this book needs?
Academic explanations and back-up to supplement the fiction.
In this story, the historical "facts" of King Richard III and the death of the two princes in the tower are questioned by a hospitalized, bed-ridden, and bored Inspector Alan Grant of Scotland Yard after studying a portrait of Richard III and believing that the face he is observing is not that of the murderous, heinous villain depicted in the history books and in Shakespeare's play.
Rather than writing a history book, Tey cleverly conveys the history in a novel in which the characters engage in their academic study/investigation.
Grant solves a crime and Carradine will be writing his history book of the truth.
This is the story that went into the history books until revisionists took a closer look at the historical evidence & made a different claim, that it was actually Henry Tudor (the father of Henry VIII and the first Tudor king) who framed Richard III for the murder of the princes.
Tey points out that Tudor historians wrote the main and popular theory about Richard III, because they certainly wouldn't have been able to be objective under the Tudors.
While it sounds very boring, the author is able to turn Richard III into a human being and we, the readers, begin to question the time-honored theory of the princes' deaths.
