https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65110.The_Penultimate_Peril
library cataloging humor being somewhat dry for children.On the plus side we get to see many old favorites from other books, all summoned, whether villains or volunteers, to the hotel for a grand meeting / party.Despite (or perhaps in defiance of) the title, don't expect many mysteries to be unfurled, or many story lines to come to neat conclusions.
Confusion abounds, we don't know who can be trusted, what plans are afoot, or why.The sugar bowl remains of prime importance ...
Good people come to the fore again, and fail, again.
You should join my 3-emails-a-year mailing list for updates about my books.
Kit's early insistence that the children will be able to observe nobility in others, to the final pages where nothing at all about nobility could be foggier, the moral ambiguity of adulthood and the wickedness in even the most well-intentioned of people ends the book on a bittersweet note.
I just know his own story and raison d'etre will come into play as this series of unfortunate events finally ends.--As well as the question of just how noble the Baudelaire parents could have been, after all of this, and their involvement in the poison dart episode.
same formula as all the others, but the plot thickens!
“the three adults smiled at the children, and the children smiled back, but of course the baudelaires were not born yesterday, an expression which means “young or innocent enough to believe things certain people say about the world.” …violet was born more than fifteen years before this particular wednesday, and klaus was born approximately two years after that, and even sunny, who had just passed out of babyhood, was not born yesterday.
neither were you, unless of course i am wrong, in which case welcome to the world, little baby, and congratulations on learning to read so early in life.” as always, for me, the pleasure of reading these books lies not in the often disparaged formulaic plot.
Lemony Snicket manages to tease out a few underlying themes, like what to think when good people let you down, and whether doing evil things makes you an evil person.
And even though the series grows dimmer and darker, it still manages to be one of the funniest I've ever read.
I also don't understand why this is called a children's series.
The lexile level (the reading difficulty score--check out lexile.com) of this book is 1280, which is higher than  War and Peace (1200) and  Pride and Prejudice (1100).
I love these books.
And if you're reading this, you too have probably read them all, and you probably love them as much as I do.
I liked this book much more than many of the others. The mystery and everything is slowly becoming uncovered. I will do a full series review in my review of the last book.
This is by far the most complex and interesting book out of the series! I just adored the whole concept of the Hotel Denouement and all the mysteries it contained. And once again we're introduced to a bunch of new and quite interesting characters that really add to the story. I also quite enjoyed the reappearance of characters from previous novels! This is by far one of my favourite out of the series and I'm quite sad I only have one more book left to read!
Uno de los que más me ha gustado de la saga. Me ha encantado reencontrarme con personajes del pasado y cómo ha ido resultando todo. Ya sólo falta uno para que todo se termine y no sé cómo sentirme al respecto. :(
~3.5 stars~I'm kinda sad there is only one book left in the series, but I'm really curious how this is going to end lol So I definitely will be picking the last book up at the library when I get a chance xD
3.75* another fun addition to the series. I really enjoyed all characters that returned in this and the fact that the Baudelaire's somewhat had more people on their side! I can't wait to see how this all wraps up in the end. I'm just hoping (although doubting) all my question will finally be answered...
The end better give me more answers than the penultimate book did. It was full of peril.
Guys, I don't know what to do. But I cried. I'm not sure what that says about me, but this book was really dark, and it made me get a little teary.And now the wait for "The End" begins.
This series could’ve easily been 11 books to be honest.
Books 11 and 12 were filler books in my opinion and a bit on the boring side but I still enjoyed them because I love the characters so much.
I’m really glad I got the audio books for 11 and 12, it made reading them a whole lot better and fun.
There were some more mysteries thrown in in book 12 and a bunch of characters from previous books make a return which was fun.
I’m going to miss these characters and world when it’s all over.- Richard :)
I think this is now my favorite in the series. As per usual, a lot of frustrating and sad things happened but I loved seeing old characters again and having more mysteries solved. I really hope the last book won't leave too many questions unanswered - I wouldn't be surprised though.
This may be my favorite book, if only for the Scalia burn which served to further cement Sunny as my favorite Baudelaire. Snicket is really very clever and it's easy to forget that these are "children's books." I'm excited for the next book because a) I need some answers to these mysteries and secrets and b) reading a series back to back like this is starting to take its toll and I'm ready to be done so I can meet some new characters and plotlines.Off to The End!
MANO DO CÉU QUE LIVRÃO DA PORRA O MELHOR DE TODOS ATÉ AGORA!!!!!
You cannot expect to find out a person’s qualities at first glance. Nothing is in black and white, mostly it is In the grey.
One can remain alive long past the usual date of disintegration if one is unafraid of change, insatiable in intellectual curiosity, interested in big things, and happy in small ways." page 180 "I'm not sure we ARE noble," Klaus said quietly, flipping the pages of his commonplace book.
"You're noble enough, Baudelaires.
However, this particular installment was the one that made me (finally) very sad about the Baudelaires and all the horrible situations they have been in.
Perhaps it is because we are finally at the point where the Baudelaires are able to look back on all that has happened, and so do we.
I liked it but I AM SO MAD OH MY GOD! I can’t wait to finish the series bc I am dying. The amount of bad things happening is ridiculous and I am just ready to finish it.
3,5I don’t know... this took me a while to finish. I listened to this on audiobook and I just wasn’t paying much attention I guess, so I missed the small details and only got the general gist of the story. But I think this would’ve been really enjoyable if I’d just paid more attention!
Esto es un delirio, no puedo más. Me caso con todos estos libros.
4.5 stars. Man this one is so good. I loved it. Seeing so many ~people~ do ~things~ and come back was just fantastic. Not ready for these to ends!
Kit informs the Orphans that they must rescue the sugar bowl and it’s precious contents before Count Olaf finds it.
Not knowing which side he is working for, the Baudelaire’s put into action plans that may spell their doom, or their freedom….As with any book in the Series of Unfortunate Events, “The Penultimate Peril” is rollicking great fun.
The rest, I’m afraid, are left for the last, and final book, of A Series of Unfortunate Events that came out in October 2006.That’s not to say that “The Penultimate Peril” is not worth reading.
"The Penultimate Peril" is one of the best book in the Series of Unfortunate Events and definitely the one with the most shocking moments so far.Here just a few examples:(view spoiler)[1.When the Baudelaire orphans inadvertently kill her new friend and companion Dewey with the harpoon.
Even though these books are very silly and bizarre and a lot of their content should not be taken to seriously, nonetheless they also deal with a very serious topic, namely that Good and Evil can not always be separated from each other and that even the most honorable people in the world can be able to horrible actions under some circumstances.
I liked this one a lot. The mystery is still killing me though. I hope everything is cleared up in the last book and the Beatrice Letters. I really love how much the children have grown. I still love Sunny :)I can't wait to jump into the last book when I wake up tomorrow. Laundry and dishes will not stop me from a full day of reading!
I know I said this about the last one but THIS is my favorite one so far.
*4.5*I had legitimately forgotten how much I loved this book. So good! And everyone comes together which is brilliant!
This one was fun.
Is it weird that I want to know everything in this hotel?
I would have liked to explore it.
I like how this book has recapped so much of the series so far.
It really doe a good job drawing you in and letting you know you are close to the end.
This one had me wondering whom to trust.
Some were obvious NO (OLAF) trust.
But others I wondered about.
Sunny and Klaus were my favorites of the siblings in this one.
Violet did nothing for me in here.
I cannot believe how the trial goes!!
Brilliant but completely devastating. And to think, its only going to get worse.
I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; yet trouble came."This book is probably the most daring in the series, literarily speaking.
They come to what has been called "the last safe place." In the last few books, they have grappled with serious moral issues.
Not because he's seen the error of his ways, but because he has a soft spot for the error of other people's ways -- especially people who have been in the habit of scorning his badness and taking their own virtue as a given.As always, Snicket leaves me wanting to read more -- of his books and of those he quotes.
"Wicked people never have time for reading. It's one of the reasons for their wickedness."The Baudelaire's find themselves in another tricky situation without many options. What will happen next? I cannot wait to read the final book in this series. My fingers are crossed that all my questions will be answered. Full series review: https://todaysechos.wordpress.com/201...
