https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19801.Goodbye_Darkness
The book consists of Manchester’s actual combat experiences, a general history of the War in the Pacific, and Manchester’s trip to Pacific battlefields in 1978.
His other sexual encounter is with the alcoholic wife of an Eighth Air Force guy who was already in England - that Manchester vigorously tries to screw her (it doesn’t quite pan out for technical reasons) is sheer hypocrisy on his part, given all the Greatest Generation blather he inflicts on the reader elsewhere.
It's only in a note at the end of the book that the reader learns that the author did not serve on Tarawa, Saipan, Guam, Peleliu, or Iwo Jima.
Why did he write all that other crap, leading the reader to believe he served where he didn't and did things he didn't do?
Granted, Dodson writes about it as part of the Kwajalein campaign and Manchester rewrote it some.
So now I don't know whether to believe any of what Manchester wrote about Okinawa.
He should have just written a novel in the first place.Incidentally, Dodson's book is amazing.
It works too for the kinds of histories Manchester has written of the United States of America: his books on MacArthur, on social history, on Kennedy, on--as here--himself.
He even, and this is more remarkable as I do not laugh so easily as I weep, pulls me into his sense of irony, of humor.This book as at once a history of the American war in the Pacific, of the part played in it by the Marines and of his own experiences as a very young member of the Corps.
Fewer now would go so blithely, so ignorantly to a war of the kind they fought.
After reading Laura Hillenbrand’s Unbroken, the story of Olympic runner Louis Zamperini’s experiences as a POW in Japan during WWII, I realized that my education about that war was sadly lacking when it comes to the Pacific theatre.
To anyone wanting a complete picture of the Pacific theatre during WWII, this book is a must read.
Manchester presents three perspectives in this look back at his days as a Marine sarge in the Pacific Theater.
He gives a good overall history of events interspersed with tales of his contemporary (late 1970s) visit to the islands where he fought, which are then interspersed with memories of his adventures as an educated, young marine.
He probably used a lot of his previous research on the war, and his memories as a marine are likely ones he’s written down over the years, and of course his re-visit to the islands is contemporary, so while still a good read, it feels like different articles from a variety of times glued together.
Manchester is an excellent writer whose work is always intelligent while remaining utterly accessible, and who epitomizes the writing dictum "show, don't tell" so well, particularly here, it literally gave me goosebumps, took my breath away with horror, made me cry and laugh out loud...all those cliches, but absolutely true.
“Goodbye Darkness” should be required reading for anyone who is or may be in a position to send others into war; Manchester bares the realities of war in a clear, vivid light which denies the deceitful obfuscation of demagogy or rhetoric and puts those who fight it clearly in our sight, where they ought to remain.
A literary and honest memoir of Manchester's service in the Pacific during WWII.Manchester is a weird guy--he's got a penchant for talking about feces and sex--but somehow this tendency is what raises this book above Band of Brothers level hackdom.
Both sets of soldiers are so shocked that such a regenerative act could happen when these guys are trying to kill each other that they temporarily stop shooting.
The dogs finish their act and the soldiers resume their fighting.
Manchester realizes that the two acts--killing and sex--are somehow related to each other in some primal way.
Manchester could make anything readable. If only this one were true: Manchester wasn't at all those battles; he relied on newspaper and buddy accounts, but presents them all in the first person. Impossible to separate the fiction from the fact, but a damn good read.
The author's story is especially intriguing as he sets out to visit the major battle sites of the US Marines in the Pacific, from Guadalcanal to Okinawa, and describes how they looked long after the war ended.
Most powerful is his disclosure of the emotional effect the war had on him - how he became sick after killing his first Japanese soldier, how he became disillusioned about the Marines and war in general after the horrors of Okinawa, and how this trip seemed to finally rid him of the terrible dreams that haunted him after the war.
His observations on Marine boot camp are hilarious and absolutely spot on—it was the same when I went through twenty years later, though without the corporeal punishment—they just shellacked your mind.This is not a combat book as much as a remembrance of places, people, and events in the war combined with Manchester’s return to the Pacific as a 58-year old veteran, during which he visited battle sites from Guadalcanal to Tarawa to Peleilu to Sapan to Iwo Jima and, finally, Okinawa.
William Manchester's GOODBYE, DARKNESS: A MEMOIR OF THE PACIFIC WAR often reads like a first person account novel.
Through the pages of the book, the reader sees the evolution of a naïve boy turn man.
GOODBYE, DARKNESS: A MEMOIR OF THE PACIFIC WAR is the type of book that will stay with the reader long after it's read.
You will be moved by the struggle, sacrifice, and courage of the boys and men who fought and died on the far away, often forgotten islands of the Pacific.
This book is a testament to that struggle, and a fine dedication to WWII's fighting men.
The fourth star borders on being awarded on an emeritus basis because I'm so fond of William Manchester's other work. The narrative could have been more straightforward. Intertwining his experiences as an older man with his memories of his fighting days tended to be distracting. Nevertheless, he is William Manchester, and his capacity to lead the reader into profundity through reflection on daily experiences remains intact.
I'm not a war buff- far from it. But this highly personal memoir from Churchill and MacArthur's biographer is simply one of the greatest books I have ever read. It describes in often unpleasant detail the author's experience fighting in the Pacific Theater during WWII, from Tarawa to Okinawa. If war is a necessary evil in the world, reading this novel should be necessary reading. I bought a second copy so I will always have one to loan.
It is a potted history of the island-hopping campaign run by Nimitz, along with a current-day (1980) view of some of the most infamous and bloody battles in history.Manchester, a veteran of the Battle of Okinawa - where he was seriously wounded - decided in his middle-age to revisit the Pacific, to try and make sense of his time there, to make sense of the War in the Pacific, and work through his ideas of what the United States had fought for, and whether it was worthwhile.This is, mostly, a recollection of futility and waste: that is, a book about war.
Goodbye Darkness is simultaneously a memoir of war, an elegy to fallen comrades, and the author's attempt decades later to come to terms with what it all means. Manchester's writing is infused with a stunning disappointment with what America became in the late 20th century. Like his two-volume masterpiece The Glory and the Dream, Goodbye Darkness forces the reader to reckon with what it means to be an American.
It is more an old man's travelogue as William Manchester visits WWII battlegrounds in order to come to terms with his experiences as a combat Marine in the Pacific War. There is a lot of description of these sites as they appeared at the time of writing and quite a bit about the local lifestyle.
However, there are many extended passages in which Manchester writes about the war from the perspective of a historian, and even these supposedly objective sections are liberally sprinkled with terms like "Nip" and "Jap." Again, I appreciate Manchester's honesty about his dislike of the Japanese.
Quite simply, he loved his buddies back in his platoon and didn't want to leave them behind.The author admits that there are better Pacific Theater histories available -- because the jungle is a lousy place to keep journals and files -- but the history of each of the major amphibious landings are succinct and well-researched.Highly recommended.
It is this experience that occupies him in this memoir as he tells of his life as an active duty Marine in the 1940s and then his return trip in 1979 to the islands he fought on in an effort to exorcise the demons of that darkness from the war.
As a Marine myself, I was captivated by his experiences.
As a freelance writer and lover of books, I loved reading this book.
As like all books we love, I started reading slower as I neared the end, regretting the last page, saddened by the last word.
He should have just written a memoir about Okinawa and cut the unsourced 350 page history of the entire Pacific campaign in which he implied he participated in every battle.
I particularly enjoyed the account of his failed attempts to lose his virginity and the description of the first time he killed someone which opened the book.
But it was dishonest not to outline the extent of his involvement in the war at the beginning and it was misleading to mix memories of Okinawa with descriptions of other battles without explaining that is what he was doing.
This could have been a good memoir, instead it was a shit history.
Somewhat overwrought in places, and some of the ideas presented have become truisms to such an extent that they're becoming cliched - e.g. the revelation that people fight for their fellow soldiers, Marines, sailors, or airmen, rather than for the flag, Mom and apple pie.
Still, Manchester was an excellent historian, and this is based on his own experiences as a young Marine in some of the worst of the fighting aginst Japan in the Pacific.
For anyone interested in an intensely personal narrative of that war, this presents a different perspective from anything else I've read from that generation - the closest would be Paul Fussell's writing about his war in Europe.
Wow...moving, horrifying and humorous account of Marines experiences in the South Pacific during WWII. He provides a frank, and eloquent account of his life leading up to and during his time with the Marines. This is also mixed with his experience of going back to the shores that he fought on 30 years later. then
Powerful memoir of a marine's experiences in the South Pacific. He revisits the battlefields 35 years after the events (written in the late 70's). The war has stayed with him all of those years. The story of the experiences will stay with you.
I had just finished this book and thought it was terrific. Then I read the American Spectator article showing that Manchester faked his heroics. He was in a Marine staff position on Okinawa during the battle. Now I wonder how honest ANY of his other books are.
Excellent memoir. Rough, tough and raw. Liked it better than EB Sledge's. Though Sledge's was pretty good too...
Probably one of the most heart-felt, and authentic accounts of the Pacific War that I've ever read. The utter lethality of those last island battles really comes home.
A fine memoir of the war in the pacific.
When he visits Tarawa decades after the battle and asks, "Is that why 3,381 Marines of my generation fell here thirty-five years ago?" there is something poignant here that you're not going to get from some reactionary history professor who has never raised his right hand at a recruiting station.
The sergeant hated and killed the enemy, lost friends, lived in unceasing rain and mud and fatigue, wondered when and how he’d die, and questioned the older Manchester on the worth of the immense sacrifice given by his generation.
World War I, he wrote, "was the last love battle"; men, he said, could never "do that again in this generation." But Fitzgerald died just a year before Pearl Harbor.
Most poignant to me was the contrast he saw between his memories of those places then, physically and psychologically, and those islands today (circa 1978) - how time erases everything, leaving old men with nothing but memories and questions that defy easy answers.
How could such horrific violence happen in the first place, especially so soon after the "War to End All War," which his own father fought in as a Marine?
In my mind, none of this diminishes the writing, which offers a graphic and truthful portrayal of the Marines experience in the Pacific War. The memoir was written in 1978, after Manchester returns to the islands for the first time since the war.
His motivation was to silence his troubled psyche and gain an understanding of his experiences as a combat vet, much of which he has suppressed and recalls only in bad dreams.
The descriptions of the landings and combat are gory, detailed and harrowing, and I certainly gained a better understanding of Pacific War. And for the most part it reads like a memoir, not a historian's account of the ordeal.
