https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131357.The_Blue_Geranium_and_Other_Stories
Agatha Christie is responsible for turning me into a devout mystery fan.
The first book I read of hers was "secret of the chimneys" involving Tommy and Tuppence - the husband-wife amateur detectives (though in that story they weren't married).
I polished off the whole CHristie collection within a couple of years or so.
I have even reread her books in the following years.
Christie is a detective par excellence.
This is a small collection of 4 mystery stories narrated by a group of acquaintances around dinner table, to which Miss Marple had immediate and accurate solutions.
Any mystery buff will enjoy this collection immensely.
I listened to the audio version of these short stories and it was absolutely brilliant.
I strongly recommend this audio as an introduction to the wonderful writing of Agatha Christie if you’ve not read, watched or heard her novels before.
But all the plots, crimes, and the remarkable deductive powers of Miss Marple will definitely leave you stunned, amazed and wanting more.
Be warned, Miss Marple takes no prisoners and is not afraid of being politically incorrect.
She has very fixed ideas about women and men, never afraid to speak her mind in her own cute way.
An excellent bunch of mystery stories with Joan Hickson as Miss Marple and including her biggest admirer Sir Henry Clithering, ex-commissioner of Scotland Yard. The entire book revolves around the premise of a gathering on a nice, crisp evening with everyone reciting murder stories they have been involved with or know of. Thoroughly enjoyable!My Rating - 4/5
Second reading, and still really entertaining.
“The Blue Geranium” by Agatha Christie.It seems that many Victorian era English mystery stories involve a nobleman ashamed of a demented 'neurotic' wife locked away in some upper room.
Cool story of finding the most unlikely of murderers, involved in the death of a superstitious woman whose wallpaper was 'herbaceous'.***“'I didn't know that Arthur believed in ghosts?''Oh!
And it happened to a friend of his, George Pritchard – a most prosaic person.
It's really rather tragic for poor George.
Either this extraordinary story is true – or else-'”“'Don't let a passion for horticultural accuracy run away with you, Dolly,' said her husband.
De blauwe geranium (kort verhaal)bevindt zich in 22ste vijfling'Blauwe geraniums zijn voor u noodlottig!' vertelt een waarzegster de lastige mevrouw Pritchard. En inderdaad wordt een blauwe geranium haar dood.
Was a good quick read. In the same vein as Sherlock Holmes but shorter.
This is a gret mystery book. One of Agathas Christie's "Miss Marple". There is so much suspense throughout the book. It is imposssible to put it down it is so interesting.
Cant beat a good solid thriller, trying to work out 'who done it' whilst listening and driving is not recommended. Classic Miss Marple.
Another quick read
Good whodunits
