https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92918.Krondor
After progressing the timeline through the Serpentwar Saga, there is a break in the action where we return to post Riftwar Mikidmia and revisit some of our favorite characters, meet some new ones, and go on some adventures that take place to fill in the gaps between other books in the series.
I have seen a list with the books chronologically, but I feel like if this is the order Feist wrote them in, it's the order I should read them in.The start was a bit slow for me.
One big thing that I think will make a lot of people happy is that this book has a ton of magic.
I have the impression that the books of the Riftwar cycle can be divided into two categories.
In the second category, where this book belongs, are the smaller scale, self-contained stories, which are much smaller, simpler, have a fairly fast plot and usually rely more on the action and the interaction of the characters.
Τα βιβλία της δεύτερης κατηγορίας είναι σίγουρα ενδιαφέροντα, περιπετειώδη και σίγουρα ο αναγνώστης διασκεδάζει διαβάζοντας τα, προσωπικά, όμως, θέλω και κάτι παραπάνω.Αυτό το βιβλίο έχει αυτά τα στοιχεία, ακόμα πιο έντονα καθώς προέρχεται ουσιαστικά από ένα ηλεκτρικό παιχνίδι.
I have fulfilled my annual quota of self-flagellation by forcing myself to finish this book. This book, which I later discovered was based on a video the author wrote, was the stupidest "You have completed Quest A! Now I need you to complete Quest B!" chain of events I have ever subjected myself to. Forced camaraderie and ridiculous dialogue round out the brutality of this kick to the groin. Awful, just awful.
By the end I was skimming like mad, assuming I could just read the 'previously in' section of book 2 of this series to figure out anything I missed, I was that bored.
He is, above all else, interested in plot.
The plot often meanders, and very rarely deviates from the 'quest is received, quest is eventually fulfilled' formula, but the thing that drives me crazy is that characters are pretty much ...
Locklear, my favorite character from the Riftwar series, is back here ...
I haven't read the whole shebang with the actual mamuth series Feist wrote, but these books, in the Riftwar Legacy, I like a lot.
A lot.
It's a classical piece of fantasy, where you got your elves, your gnomes, your really big or evil monsters and you have to fight them all at the same time.
The period of time, the language, the beings that populate the world that I'm reading about, they have to connect, in some way.
I even pay attention to clothing, if that is possible in their time and if nothing is missed out, I'm happy.
When I was in high school I played the game "Betrayal at Krondor" and I was fascinated by its rich setting and engaging plot.
Later I realized that was because the game was based on a popular fantasy book series by Raymond Feist.
The plot is all over the place and hard to follow.
That was lost in book form.The characters are pretty dull.
The rest of the characters feel like NPCs - so one-dimensional and void of personality.
It was hard to remember and understand the motivations for the actions of the various villains, which made following the plot even harder.
Ve srovnání s jinými knihami od R. E. Feista slabší, i tak ale dobré počtení. Za mě hodnocení 3,5 z 5.
just have to come up with an appropriate elf-like queenly name!
I think the story would have been richer for me if I had read anything by Raymond Feist prior to this book, as he has devoted a few series that revolve around this particular world, but I feel happy knowing that they are there to be discovered by moi at a later date.
I'm equally excited that there are a few more books in this particular series as well, as I came to thoroughly enjoy some of the characters of this one and would like to see how they develop further.
Het is zoals bijna alle boeken van Feist de 5 sterren meer dan waard.
Wat ik de laatste keer heb gemist is dat deze serie eerst n spelvorm was waarna Feist er een boekenserie van heeft geschreven.
Het brengt een aantal bekenden ten tonele zoals Martin Langboog, Prins Arutha, Robbie de Hand en jonker Joolstein maar ook nieuwe karakters als Owyn en Gorath een "zwarte" elf.Het is tien jaar na de slag om Sethanon.
Kunnen Owyn & Gorath Puc helpen en het koninkrijk redden?Enkele fragmenten uit het boek:-"Richard van Romnee zegt dat hij voortdurend wordt belaagd door nachtraven."-- "Die dingen worden door hele vreemde vogels gekocht".
Game features like the constant ambush scenes and side quests simply don't work in the writte narrative.
On the other hand, the book lacks the features that gave the video game its remarkable and unique atmosphere.
Instead of adding one boring fight scene after the other, Uncle Feist should have put more efforts in making the reader immerse in the colorful world of Midkemia.Luckily, even if the book falls short of atmosphere, Feist didn't waste the chance to add more depth to the characters than the video game allowed for.
To this respect the book is a perfect add-on to the game.
As part of the Riftwar Legacy, Krondor: The Betrayal turns back the clock to a time following the Riftwar to an untold adventure with Jimmy The Hand and Squire Locklear teaming with a rebel Moredhel, Gorath, to save Midkemia and maybe the world from a devious plot between Moredhel and Tsurani.
Magician Pug and Prince Arutha return as well and there are some new characters introduced to the mythos too.
The action and intrigue is non-stop as this page turning adventure spans the kingdom and across worlds.
Feist at his best returning to some of his most endearing characters and adding to their already rich legacies.
The only positive of this book is Gorath, who is a pretty likable character that should have been featured in the original series instead. The book itself is pretty much what it is supposed to be - a linear game story, with the basic 'move to the point A - kill monster - move to the point B - repeat' formula. Another weak one.
I bought this book when I was a kid because I was obsessed with the computer game. I never managed to finish the game, but I read this book over and over again. I adored the characters, especially James. I went on to read the previous Riftwar Saga, and though I tried to read other books by Feist, they weren't the same without my favourite characters.
Gebaseerd op een computerspel en leest als een computerspel. Soms een beetje te 'simpel'. Het verhaal mag wat meer om het lijf hebben.
An enthicing tale. Worth every moment spent reading it! I'll simply have to finish the series someday...
The Riftwar Legacy was horrible, trite, pithy, predictable, sad... I couldn't get past 50 pages.Maybe I just couldn't appreciate it not having read any of the others before this.
2,5 starAfter reading The Empire Trilogy it felt like a blast.
But then I compared it to The Riftwar Saga and it felt like very average even bad book.While in the first, iconic, classic saga plot was paced way slower but explained more, showed consequences of the actions not only to the particular character but to the others even the world.
But it's hard to shake the feeling that the book was made in some sort of rush.Also I feel Feist didn't know what to do with already developed characters.
It felt like reading about character entering inn while he has slightly uphill road.
I hadn't ready any Raymond Feist books previously, so I was only biased by what I remembered of the game almost 25 years prior.The plot was decent, character personalities were entertaining, and the world is enjoyable, but it felt like something was missing.
Perhaps this would be remedied by replaying the game or reading earlier Feist novels from the same world.
Time would pass as characters traveled between locations and sometimes there would be incidents of little consequence that would be narrated, and sometimes if felt they could just as easily have teleported.
So this falls a lot further back in the time line with characters like Jimmy, Arutha and Locky.
It feels like the characters opened their own choose your own adventure books to follow their quest lines.
While it is not bad, I feel like it is missing something.
While this and the set of books it falls in are more side story and possibly not necessary to read for the main story it is a nice side trip so far.
It seems some of the reference of adventures from characters during the Serpentwar Saga is what will be found in this Riftwar Legacy set of books.
I really enjoyed, this the first in The Riftwar Legacy series. It is a bit disconcerting as it set before the previously read Serpent War Saga so characters that had died during the Serpent War are now very much alive.  I was prepared for a poor book given the volume of negative comments regarding this book as it was in reality a novelisation of a old video game. Maybe my opinion would have been different if I had previously played the game, but coming to it fresh I thought the plot was engagin
I really enjoyed, this the first in The Riftwar Legacy series.
It is a bit disconcerting as it set before the previously read Serpent War Saga so characters that had died during the Serpent War are now very much alive.
Maybe my opinion would have been different if I had previously played the game, but coming to it fresh I thought the plot was engaging and consistent with the previous Riftwar novels I’ve read.
Being led back to Sethanon by the lie that Murmandamus is alive and being held a prisoner there.
Strange goings on in the land of Krondor as the assassins known as the night hawks appear to be back. One of the dark elves escapes his companions to warn the kingdom men about an impending attack. It seems that a dark elf has taken power and is planning an invasion. Jimmy the Hand is on hand to investigate and fight against the invasion.All good stuff with the usual colourful characters of Feist’s world and plenty of battle scenes.
I read this book years ago and have been reading the entire series over again. Raymond E. Feist is one of my preferred authors. His books generally do not disappoint... however this one did. The writing style was not up to par. The book seemed disjointed and did not flow smoothly like his previous stories. Honestly if this was the first of Mr. Feist's novel that I had picked up to read, I would never have read the others
For the Year of Feist, I think these might have been better (re?)read in story chronological order rather than publication chronological order, but the odd thing is that I barely recall this one.
I had the first edition on my shelf, and was pretty sure I had read it before, but I didn't have any of those "Oh, yeah" moments.
Perhaps it's because it seems to be a little derivative of Feist's work -yes, I know it was tied to the video game, but it came off as teleplay...episodic, without a lot of depth.
Regardless, a lesser 25 year old Feist offering is better than many popular fictions of today.
On the website it said this should be read after Shards of a Broken Crown, I disagree as events take place after Mistress of the Empire and before Prince of the Blood. A dark elf, wanting to save his people turns to the humans to warn them of a coming invasion. He runs into Owyn and they both learn their races are not what they believed. Interesting read, a little predictable but engaging.
I liked the book until the point where Feist was getting rid of the characters only to make the story fit into the world already set in Serpentwar saga. But the insight in the moredhel and the struggles of yet young Squire James are as interesting as I wished them to be.
Despite the fact that Feist's novels focus on the same circle of characters in the same world, he continues to imagine new plotlines and characters so that each new book is truly a new experience. Excited to continue through the series!
Maybe the magic is wearing off? Maybe I have read too many tales from Midkemia too quickly? It would have been better to have read this trilogy before the Serpentwar saga, despite the order in which they were written. All the same, a master at work.
I enjoyed going back in time with old favorite characters still in their prime, namely Aruthra, Jimmy, Locky and Pug. This is a kind of side story that takes place after the main events at Sethanon. It's the usual fare, but good fun all the same.
Enjoyed getting back to this series.
Amazing.
