https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29920081-the-sister
Things just start rolling along more quickly, and I’ll be darned if it wasn’t an entire night of “just one more chapter”, until I realized I had read the whole book.
One of the aspects I truly loved was this novel’s flipping between present and past tense, giving us an insider look on how these friends grew into who they are now and what they had to endure along the way.
There was a greater level of depth to the characters than is typical in thrillers these days, as it seems the fad now to focus all efforts on the dreaded “big twist”; this was not the case here.
So I started out loving this book!! I wanted to know what was going on! Who did what and why!? Then over half the damn book I wanted to stab everyone in the book!!!!Then toward the end when more revelations came about, I started liking it again. But I'm leaving it at 3 stars for my angst. So there! Mel ❤😡
So I started out loving this book!! I wanted to know what was going on! Who did what and why!? Then over half the damn book I wanted to stab everyone in the book!!!!Then toward the end when more revelations came about, I started liking it again. But I'm leaving it at 3 stars for my angst. So there! Mel ❤️😡
Twenty-five-year old Grace Matthews is digging up an old time capsule that her and her best friend Charlie buried ten years before.She never thought she'd be alone opening the box that contained all of their hopes and dreams.
Am I always to blame?"When Grace starts an online search for Charlie's father, someone else from Charlie's past shows up.
She begins receiving strange phone calls, things start to go missing, and she feels like someone might be following her.
Grace feels like someone is playing with her life and she's terrified to find out what they'll do next.I thought "The Sister" was a good psychological thriller.
I love a book that can keep me on the edge of my seat, wondering what is going to happen next and making my heart rate quicken.Grace, the heroine is still reeling from the death of her best friend, Charlie, years later.
What they unearth is unexpected.It seems that Charlie had a half-sister that she never knew about, Anna.
Sometimes the alternating timeframes don't work so well for me, but I think it helped build the suspense in this story and worked well.That being said, I wasn't as shocked by the "big reveal" as I expected to be.
Around the time the girls reach 18, Charlie just ups and leaves without saying goodbye, leaving Grace hurt, angry and bewildered.
But forgive her for what?Five years later, Charlie turns up unannounced, but before Grace can ask her what she meant by those words, Charlie collapses and dies.Grace is traumatised, but after some time she decides to find the father that Charlie never knew, thinking it was something that Charlie would have wanted.
Dan helps her set up an appeal asking for anyone knowing his whereabouts to come forward.
My thanks to Bookouture and to Louise Jensen for the opportunity.All we needed was the boiled rabbit.Grace Matthews and Charlie Fisher were childhood friends who were as thick as thieves.
Grace returns to the exact spot where the two had buried a memory box when they were fifteen years old.
Grace makes this her zealous quest.Now here is where the lid is lifted on the pot that boils.....The storyline ricochets from "Then" to "Now" which is necessary in order to fill in missing chinks in the armor of this story.
I rounded up to a 4-star because Louise Jensen has quite the story here.
Grace has had a hard time coping with the death of her best friend, Charlie.
Guilt for things the author only alludes to in the beginning.
A lot of the story felt forced, almost like things were conveniently thrown in just to keep the plot-line going.
I don’t know if it’s to alleviate some of her guilt, but Grace decides she’s going to track down Charlie’s father.
Bad things keep happening to her and she has no clue what’s really going on?
I think you would have to be as naive as Grace not to see were this story was headed or who the culprit was.
THE SISTER by Louise Jensen is this author’s debut novel, and it is a definite winner…and from my favourite publisher!
I can’t believe that this is a debut novel!Grace, Charlie and Dan have been friends since public school.
During this time frame we follow Grace and Charlie as children, teenagers and Grace as an adult.
“When Grace starts a campaign to find Charlie's father, Anna, a girl claiming to be Charlie's sister steps forward.
Or as she gets closer to discovering the truth about both Charlie and Anna, is Grace in terrible danger?” This was a brilliant debut novel.
It is a matter of supreme indifference to me as to whether I like the main character of a book or not, but there were so many instances of Grace whimpering, Grace mewling, Grace blaming herself for everything under the sun, that I finally lost patience.
Also liked the Charlie character, and enjoyed the author’s acknowledgments.
(view spoiler)[Grace is being bombarded with threatening letters, and smeared by nasty postings on the internet.
And yet, when she is awakened by a noise in the middle of the night, her first thought is that she hopes a burglar isn’t in the house.
Then Grace's life starts to slowly get back to normal through therapy.
Charlie was raised by a single mom and before she passed away she told Grace how much she wanted to find her father even though her mom won't tell her anything about him.
Who she finds instead is Charlie's long lost sister, Anna, and let's just say this is where things get complicated.
This was an enjoyable book overall but not the most original nor one I would go around raving about to everyone I know.
A quick, easy book to read that would be a great pallet cleanser between heavier, darker reads.
I could not put this one down.First of all, well done Louise Jensen.
In my humble opinion, it is the sign of a great thriller writer that the reader is left guessing a different alternative ending from chapter to chapter.
She completely had me guessing that one character was the bad guy...
My heart was racing the whole read.I also loved all the "British-isms" - the language, the food, the slang - all of it.A really great psychological thriller, highly recommend!
4.5 starsThank you Louise Jensen, Bookcouture and Netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
The Sister was originally published in 2016 and was Ms. Jensen's first thriller but I did not begin reading her work until her next book.
So far she has released four thrillers and I'd read three and enjoyed them so when I saw this one was be re-released I knew I had to pick it up and I'm glad I did.The Sister follows twenty five year old Grace who is still mourning the loss of her best friend Charlie.
My initial reaction was, "I'll be the judge of that."The main character, Grace, was well developed.
At times she seemed too needy, too paranoid, and too willing to jump to conclusions.
I liked Charlie more because she was stronger and unafraid of tackling life.
I was sorry Charlie just up and left.
Anna was everything I expected her to be.Supporting characters like Dan, Grandma and Grandad and Lexie were important.
Grace's mother could have been left out, though, I think.
Many times a Now followed a Now, for instance.This was a well written debut novel.
I think I would have left the title as just "The Sister."
If you are a fan of Lifetime movies, you will really enjoy this.
Unfortunately for me, I'm not...Grace and Charlie; childhood friends brought together because they shared something in common-neither had a Father.
But something happened in their past, and now Charlie is dead.
Soon after, Anna arrives, saying she is Charlie's half sister.
Grace has found another tie to Charlie and she can't believe her luck.
But then things start to happen....I won't bother sharing some of the things that start to go wrong.
You've watched these movies, you know what happens.
The main character Grace is still reeling from the death of her childhood best friend Charlie.
The whole book shows a person who is not handling her grief at all, and was also scared to be abandoned by anyone, and obsessed with her best friend.The secondary characters were so underdeveloped.
And once you figure that out, the book doesn't work when we go back to "Then" chapters that has teenage Grace wanting to be with Dan. You know that she will be with him.
I got absolutely no sense of who she was at all in this story besides a character Grace was obsessed with.Other people such as Grace's grandparents, Charlie's mother, etc.
But still I felt that there were just too many things going wrong, too many deaths, too many coincidences and I never really bought into the story.
Grace has lost a lot of people - her parents to start with.
Added to this, Grace has serious trust issues; with her boyfriend, with her friends.
So when things go missing, she begins to get phone calls where no one is on the other end, she thinks she's being followed and is receieving threatening notes, she doesn't know who to trust.
The book took me nearly a month to finish, however that has far less to do with its plot than with the fact that I still struggle a little with ebooks, and I tend to read only short bits at a time, because the kindle strains my eyes far more than paper.
The story follows Grace, jumping from past to present, as the plot unfolds.
I really look forward to seeing what she comes up with in the future!I received a free copy of this book from NetGalley and have written what I believe is a fair and fitting review.
This is an excellent debut novel - a pyschological thriller that builds slowly, gradually filling out the details and adding layers to produce a sizzling finale when it all comes together with some major reveals.Grace had a bad start to her early childhood with her father dying and her mother absconding, leaving Grace to be brought up by her grandparents.
By the time they were 18 they were as close as sisters but then something happened and Charlie disappeared, leaving Grace bereft.
Living with her boyfriend Dan, Grace is depressed and struggling to cope when she meets Anna, a woman claiming to be Charlie's half sister.
I felt at times where Grace's dialogue was written I just wanted to shake her, tell her to move on I found her to be a very weak person in the beginning but by the end she stood up well.BEWARE GRACE ANNA IS WATCHING YOUR EVERY MOVE!!!
The Sister is one of those books that, despite being good I also want to slap some sense into some of the characters.
It was kind of frustrating to read about how Grace life starts to fall apart and she still doesn't seem to grasp that the person most likely behind it all is living with her and Dan. I mean even Dan doesn't like Anna, actually, he is quite hostile towards her.
Then, we have person number three that I want to slap, Lexie, Charlie's mother.
But, despite my hostility towards these three characters is the book very good and thrilling to read.
The Sister is a dark and tense psychological thriller.Initially I was so hung up on the book title, needing to know who the sister was, and how she would be connected to the story.
However, one thing I quickly learnt while reading this book, was to expect the unexpected and trust no one!This story has an interesting plot, which despite only having a few main characters, had a lot of layers and depth to it.
The characters were well developed.
I found myself practically screaming at one character in anger and frustration.
I will begin by saying this certainly does not read like a debut novel.
From page one, it reads as though a seasoned author had put this together.Charlie (Charlotte) and Grace became friends when they met in school.
Grace is quieter, an introvert, but a willing follower of Charlie.The book takes you back and forth between NOW and THEN, as the girls were growing up.
Anna appears in Grace's life ....
she states that Charlie was her half-sister ad Grace gladly welcomes her into their home.
She's always saying things that make Grace feel insecure and she's planting ideas that her boyfriend is cheating.
Grace and Charlie became best friends from that time forward – going through much together but loving each other all the same.
Grace couldn’t find a way through her grief – it had been four months since Charlie’s death and she had only just gone back to her job at the child care centre.
In the days that followed, Grace was contacted by a young woman who claimed to be Charlie’s sister; the shock was huge.
I will admit to wanting to smack Grace a couple of times and yell at her because she couldn’t see what I could see!
Probably more like 3.5 stars.This is the story of Grace, who lives with long-time boyfriend, Dan. As the book begins, Grace is just beginning to get over the sudden death of her best friend, Charlie.
Grace decides to try to find Charlie's dad, as her friend had talked about doing that before she died.Then Grace meets Anna, who says she's Charlie's sister.
I enjoyed the writing style too, it was straightforward and made me want to keep reading.I thought there were a whole heap of cliches throughout but was happy to suspend my disbelief as I was enjoying the read.
I mean, to be able to write a story that is woven with so many twists and turns has got to be quite an achievement on it’s own, but to be able to get it spot on in your very first novel?
Well that is exactly what Louise Jensen has gone and done.The Sister is literally full of mystery and suspense that constantly has the reader trying to guess in between the lines.Grace and Charlie were the best of friends and living out of each others pockets growing up.
I received this book from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Think "Single White Female" meets "Fatal Attraction" and you have "The Sister".
Although I did enjoy this book, I gave it 3 stars because I felt that there were some plot holes in the story.
I'm not really sure.Overall, I think the story works, but there were a bunch of times that I was literally rolling my eyes at Grace or I found myself skim reading because I was getting bored with her naivete.
If you read through other reviews, you will see I am in the minority, so maybe it is just me.
Since Grace's childhood best friend, Charlie, has died, life has been a struggle for Grace.
It's been affecting her relationship with her boyfriend, Dan, and with Charlie's Mum, Lexie.
The story moves along at a steady pace as little bits of information are revealed in chapters of 'Then' and 'Now'.
- I was hurled forward to 'Now' again.Grace managed to redeem herself by the end of the book, but up till then, there were lots of moments where I just wanted to shake her out of her naïveté and tell her to open her eyes and face reality.
Definitely a very intriguing story line that was nicely executed.
*4.5 starsI want to thank Chelsea Humphrey for loving this book because it made me want to request it!
So thanks again Chelsea!!The story goes back and forth between Now and Then, which I tend to like stories that do that (if they're done well).
It basically focuses on Grace and her life with her best friend Charlie.
After Charlie dies (no spoiler--you know that right away), Grace is trying to find her way out of her depression.
So Grace begins to unravel what that might be.
I very much enjoyed the ride this book gave and would recommend it to anyone that likes a great psychological mystery.
The book started off good, told in alternating chapters of Now and Then, from the perspective of Grace--a 25 year old living with her boyfriend, Dan, and still reeling from the recent death of her best childhood girlfriend Charlie.
Six years prior to Charlie's death she had left town suddenly, leaving a note for Grace that said "I'm so sorry, Grace.
It could have been a great story but, for me, way too much of it was simply implausible--over and over again, these things just kept happening that were not realistic and that Grace's character should have been able to see through or figure out.
From start to finish this story had me totally and completely hooked!
Every single time I thought I had something figured out my theory was completely blown out of the water and I was just left with my jaw hanging.
There were just SO many things that I didn’t see coming and it made for such an exciting and page turning story!
My only instinct that turned out to be right was my instant dislike of Anna.
I knew something was off about her right from the start and boy was I ever right!
