https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96884.The_Happiness_Hypothesis
With that said, the title is appropriate; Haidt is chiefly concerned with what's responsible for making humans happy.The title fails, however, to convey the breadth and depth of Haidt's search, which touches on philosophy, psychology, economics, evolution, and cognitive science, and skips effortlessly across the centuries, from the Stoics' philosophical minimalism to Ben Franklin's pragmatism to Robert Cialdini's work on Influence.Haidt documents the evolution of the human mind, producing an overarching narrative that explains everything from the use of gossip and prozac to mental tendencies that steer men away from their stated values and towards self-destruction.Along with Kluge, this book has profoundly shaped the way I view my brain.
این پیش زمینه شامل دو حقیقت زیر می شه:این که مغز انسام شامل قسمت های مجزایی هست که کارکردهای متفاوت و حتی متداخل باهم دارن و از تمثیل یک سوارکار بر روی یک فیل استفاده می کنه که در اینجا سوارکار بخش منطقی و آگاه مغز و اون فیل، بخش احساسی و سرکش ذهن هست که سوارکار صرفا با استفاده از زور بازو نمی تونه اون رو کنترل کنه.دومین ایده، حقیقتی هست که بزرگانی مثل شکسپیر و بودا به روش های متفاوت بیان کردند:There is nothing good or bad, only thinking makes it so.
His discussions of how this is related to politic ideology is interesting, but when he seems to be arguing that humans will inevitably suffer if they leave the need for the sacred unattended to, he gets a little confusing.At the end of the book he returns to one of my pet favorite themes, and explores how moral authority and religiosity arose through evolutionary processes.Perhaps the most memorable take-away is the powerful metaphor of “the rider and the elephant”.
Well, actually while I’m pretty sure the metaphor is about conscious-vs-subconscious, other readers I’ve discussed this with have argued for other dichotomies: will-vs-instinct, or intellect-vs-emotion.
Haidt's got the same penchant to 1) explain away the cultural status quo as a natural consequence of biological human nature; 2) present all of his ideas as scientific consensus, when there are very few non-controversial conclusions in positive psychology (it's fine for him to stick with his theory, but his disinterest in bringing up these disagreements leaves me very distrustful of him); 3) make readers shudder a little bit when they recognize the writer is coming from a space of extreme privilege and remains ignorant of the lives that most people live.
All the same, this book was much more interesting and much more challenging (at least, to me) than most other self-help books I’ve read.
Well, surround yourself with people you love, find out what engages your interest and do that, have control over what you do, don’t live in the suburbs where you have to commute to work for hours every day, create ‘religious’ spaces in your life where you value things as holy and do things to connect with both your physical self and with society at large.See, it’s remarkably easy…I still think Stumbling on Happiness was a better book, but this one was worth the read.
If you are in passionate love and want to celebrate your passion, read poetry. If your ardor has calmed and you want to understand your evolving relationship, read psychology. But if you have just ended a relationship and would like to believe you are better off without love, read philosophy. and if you are unsure about what category falls for you, just read this book! :D
He suggests we need a core of moral values and virtues to teach our children if we expect them to live lives of character and value.If you can get through the first third of the book without falling into a deep depression, you will find a truly interesting and valuable read.
Both an intellectually interesting view on the personal and societal infrastructure that can make us happier and a world view that refuses to give in to factionalism (he is an atheist, but sees important value in religious beliefs and a liberal who embraces some of the ideas from conservatives).Whether you agree with any of his ideas or not, read it because it will stimulate your thinking and encourage personal introspection.
In some of Haidt's best advice within the whole book he says, "Just as plants need sun, water, and good soil to thrive, people need love, work, and a connection to something larger." He adds, "You have to get the conditions right, and then wait." There are a lot of other good insights in the book, but I find them to be burried in piles of other not-so-compelling somewhat dry information.
We would like to think that our awareness steers our ship, but, in truth, it is the huge portion hidden under the water that directs our actions and hardens them into habits that become the building blocks of our personality.
Combining the wisdom of the past (from Freud to Buddha, Shakespeare to the Bible) with the latest cognitive research, Haidt engages the reader in an insightful exploration of what makes us happy and how we find meaning in our lives, and offers clues to understanding erratic personal and social behavior along the way.
Perhaps we need to de-emphasize the facts and set the ground work for a better public process by finding ways to help people in our communities understand their social lives, and habitual responses and behaviors, in a way that makes it possible for them to be less influenced by the behavior of their elephant.
I loved Haidt's most recent book, "The righteous mind".
While "Righteous mind" examines the origins of morality, "Happiness" goes through some studies of happiness that I have already found or heard elsewhere, and it draws pertinent links with some ancient wisdom.
Also, like many atheists, Haidt (in this book) is in love with his own idea of oriental meditation, and never once he mentions that the same neurological benefits can be obtained through prayer.
Finally, the thing I liked the least: the value that Haidt gives to behavioral psychology experiments.
I cringe at any type of psychological "experiment" or "test", and the book is full of them.
Така Хайд ни показва как предците ни са успели, доколкото им е възможно без да са разбирали как точно работи човешкият ум, да извлекат от опита си и от древните традиции основни поуки за него и самите нас, които са валидни и днес.Това е важна книга за съвременния човек, който (като мен) не е религиозен и като цяло смята, че повечето традиции се нуждаят най-малко от преосмисляне, ако не и от тотално отхвърляне.
Тя показва, че хората едно време може да не са били напред с науката и технологиите, но човешкият ум и душа не са се променили особено през хилядолетията и предците ни са ги познавали доста добре, може би по-добре от самите нас.
The book gets another star for the valuable insights into human psychology, morality and life in general that lie interspersed in between elaborate digressions into religion and drugs.
But it gets no more because far from finding modern truth in ancient wisdom, it equates the latter to religion and gets ahead of itself as it delves into the religion vs science argument seeking ,rather circuitously, to derive a common ground between the two without finally offering anything valuable to the reader as a result of this rumination.A book has to be like a discovery, either revealing something new to the reader or making her see what is obvious and plain in a way that it is “elevating” as the author might have put it.
Ar tai gera knyga? Paaiškinsiu - tai knyga, kurią skaičiau 7 MĖNESIUS. Nes kas antrą pastraipą turėjau sustoti, pasižymėti, apgalvoti.Man, kaip informacijos žiurkei, tai nuostabi knyga.Kas daro žmones laimingais? Nuo filosofijos iki... Na, čia apkalbama viskas. Tokia išsami ir nuorodų, citatų, tyrimų pilna knyga, kad..! Žodžiu. Įsimylėjau knygą. Jei po metų išleisiu knygą apie laimę, žinokit iš kur rinkau mintis :)
Haidt, researcher and social psychologist explains a lot about how people have grown and developed.
All of this is in search of one question asked two ways, “what is the meaning of life.” For some people that is better asked, “what is the purpose of life,” for others, “how do we get meaning out of the our lives?” 	Haidt’s a good writer and he has a sense of humor.
If I were to take issue with what Haidt has strung together it is that, though I feel he understands this, what he wrote about genetic behavior does not translate in a way that reflects the science on it.
Also, "The Happiness Hypothesis" strikes me as a title that would tend to attract women readers disproportionately, while "Thinking, Fast and Slow," being more scientific sounding, would not turn off (some) men.Well, fortunately, I had read Kahneman first, so I could take the wealth of information Haidt has to give and plug it in as I liked.
We would be more humble and be able to become more wise.Some examples of Haidt's thinking which I love: We need each other because each of us has a blind spot regarding ourselves.
But The Happiness Hypothesis was so compelling that I kept coming back after putting it down and letting my mind digest the material.
It's a book that's designed to be read slowly.I discovered this book through Switch, by Chip and Dan Heath, who borrow Haidt's metaphor of the mind as a rider on an elephant.
Haidt asks us to imagine our mind as a rider (your conscious self) trying to direct an elephant (your subconscious self).
This metaphor helps explain much of the rest of the book.Later chapters use psychology, neurology, biology, and anthropology to explain the sometimes-confusing world of our minds and our societies.
I like how intellectually engaging this book was.
This is pretty understandable, considering Jonathan Haidt and I approach the world from two very different worldviews.
(He could really do with some C.S. Lewis.) But I respect and I appreciate his willingness to engage with ideas and worldviews he disagrees with and doesn't understand.
I find it interesting he looks to The Purpose Driven Life as a sort of "Christian" voice and if I have one critique there, it would be that he seems to consider the "religious right" in a very narrow, 1990s era way.
I don't know that the author would consider it theology, especially as he doesn't seem to understand it (like his description of good v.
[Living near loud noises, e.g., a busy intersection, is like a long commute in that people do not fully adapt to it.] (2) Realize that your brain is populated with self serving biases, and that correcting them takes active work: research shows that it’s not enough to simply know that the biases exist (Loc. 1395), so force yourself to write down weaknesses in whatever position/case/argument you’re advocating: you’ll emerge from the exercise with a more nuanced/balanced (and accurate) assessment of the persuasiveness and/or the chance it will prevail (Loc. 1414).(3) Find something that engages you for long periods of time, ideally as part of your job.
You've heard of every single study in this book--marshmallows, monkeys and moms, etc.
The point of this book, as he says, is not to tell you the meaning of life (why are we here, where do we go, etc), but how to have a meaningful (or happy) life.
We all have a happiness setpoint and the only way to move it is through meditation, cognitive therapy or Prozac--though he seems most sold on the latter.
That's my one quip on the book--for some reason, it just can't be that Prozac is the secret to happiness.
4,5/5
To me, the concept seemed great: "here's an ancient theory on life from an important philosopher, here's some modern science that provides empirical evidence for this theory so it seems they were correct and we should follow his / her advice." However, I think this book may have reached too far and ultimately failed in its intention.
If you're looking for books to understand the human mind and how we work, I would recommend "Thinking Fast and Slow" (Kahneman), "Predictably Irrational" (Ariely), and "Drive" (Pink) ahead of this book.
Sales techniques are designed to exploit this instinct.Motivated reasoning--If we can find evidence that supports the conclusion we want, we tend at that point to stop thinking critically.External factors--A few external factors that are shown to systematically affect happiness are noise (especially variable or intermittent), commute (shorter commutes increase happiness even when this means having a smaller home), lack of control (even the illusion of control increases happiness), shame (eg, body image), and especially relationships (strength and number).Conspicuous consumption--Evolutionarily advantageous (attracts more/better mates) but it demonstrably reduces happiness.The two types of love--As defined by the author.
The part of the book that hit me hardest was the section on love, and also the discussions and thoughts that came from natural levels of happiness.
My professor asked the class as we read this section, and as the book asked us the same thing in a different way, "do you condemn someone with bad eyesight for wearing glasses?
I hold this book in high-esteem, as my friends who read this in the class with me are still bringing it up and discussing it to this day.
There is particularly one potent concept that the author teaches: the rider and the elephant.
After having gone back into traditional thoughts, religion, and modern psychology, the bound nature of the mind and body becomes clear.
In this case, the mind is the rider; the body is the elephant.
The rider does its best to train the elephant; but the elephant can still disobey and his its own mind.
The mind will never have full control, the elephant will never disappear.
You may need to train the elephant more.I recommend this book for everyone.
And thus we move, logically, to The Happiness Hypothesis.
Ben Tanaka, main character of Shortcomings, could use The Happiness Hypothesis.
Ginger Pye and the rest of the Pye family apparently intuitively knew The Happiness Hypothesis.
Often we can use a strength to get around a weakness.*The personality is now thought to have three components: (1) our basic and classic traits of neuroticism and extroversion, (2) the ways we characteristically adapt including openness to new experiences, agreeableness, and conscientiousness, and (3) our life story, the way we have made sense of our lives.*It takes adversity to reach our highest levels.
Claire thinks this is the best book I have put her way in recent years and now has about six of her friends reading it.
Basically Jon Haidt (who I have had email correspondance with about the link between his work and mine) looks at what thinkers over the last 3000 years have said about what makes us happy and then applied modern neuro-science and the emerging study of positive psychology to see what light it throws on ancient wisdom.
I think this book is the best of the recent spate of books on happiness and Jon Haidt has done some really cool work of his own on disgust, religion, morality that feeds into this book.
“No” says the man, “Idropped them back there in the alley, but the light is better over here.”) Because we can see only one little corner of the mind’s vast operation, we are surprised when urges, wishes, and temptations emerge, seemingly from nowhere.
Other conditions require relationships to things beyond you: Just as plants need sun, water, and good soil to thrive, people need love, work, and a connection to something larger.
It is worth striving to get the right relationships between yourself and others, between yourself and your work, and between yourself and something larger than yourself.
If you get these relationships right, a sense of purpose and meaning will emerge.” “Work on your strengths, not your weaknesses.
3.5 starsFav. Quotes:Threatened self-esteem accounts for a large portion of violence at the individual level, but to really get a mass atrocity going you need idealism— the belief that your violence is a means to a moral end.
People have little respect for rules; we respect the moral principles that underlie most rules.If you are in passionate love and want to celebrate your passion, read poetry.
If your ardor has calmed and you want to understand your evolving relationship, read psychology.
But if you have just ended a relationship and would like to believe you are better off without love, read philosophy.
Feeling of elevation aptly captured by Thomas Jefferson in defending fiction (and explaining so enthusiastically why he recommends books): they provide an experience in which we can depart from our profane self to something greater, and we yearn to be like that!
Not definitional, not symbolism, but basically "what do I need to know to understand the meaning of life"(like using the journey metaphor, one in which we don't know the beginning and the end.
Where I am heading?I may not need to be able to verbalize the purpose of my life, but once cross coherence has been achieved from within (personality) and without (condition like love, work and connection to something greater).
Twin studies generally show that from 50 percent to 80 percent of all the variance among people in their average levels of happiness can be explained by differences in their genes rather than in their life experiences.""You can change your affective style too—but again, you can’t do it by sheer force of will.
Here are three of the best methods for doing so: meditation, cognitive therapy, and Prozac.""After a careful review of the evidence, however, Frank concludes that those who think money can’t buy happiness just don’t know where to shop.""If the metaphor for passionate love is fire, the metaphor for companionate love is vines growing, intertwining, and gradually binding two people together.""A society without liberals would be harsh and oppressive to many individuals.
