https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887082.Miss_Lonelyhearts_and_A_Cool_Million
Black coffee with a taste of almonds. Drink ye all of it.
Sometimes we are deprived of good works by the untimely death of a brilliant young author.
Rather than being a brilliant exploration of the philosophical and moral quagmire and emotional devastation of living on the seamy underbelly of city life as so many reviewers have exhorted, Miss Lonelyhearts is a hodgepodge of uneven, unfinished thoughts by an author who is not yet in full command of his art.
The characters are all supposed to be in deep emotional despair, but it is impossible to connect with them or their pain because so little of their lives is available to us.
I’m thinking here of The Magus and The End of the Affair.
His secondary characters, particularly the brutal and sarcastic editor, Shrike, bring some jauntiness to the story, but usually at the expense of any hope Miss Lonelyhearts might foster.The discussion of the novel in my 1000 books you must read before you die suggests that the protagonist struggles with his Christianity, but I found that to be an ambiguous proposition at best — it’s completely unclear to me whether he cares about Christian views at all.
Thinking about this post and the one I wrote yesterday, I’m inclined to wonder if there’s something in my critical faculty missing.
In a bar he encountered some like-minded individuals, one of whom comments, “The trouble with all of is, is that we have no outer life, only an inner one.” Miss Lonelyhearts fights with one of the men, staggers out into the snow, and beats up a frail old man.Gradually it becomes apparent that each chapter of this narrative is a parody of some genre of cheap novel – the tough-guy-fighter-in-the-bar, the bodice-ripper, the callous-guy-abusing-his-girl-friend, the sappy drunk, the misunderstood religious zealot, etc.
Nathanael West's high reputation rests on a less than prolific output, including this very short novella - easily readable in just a few hours, but not quite as fast a read as you might think due to the intricacies of West's analogies and language and expressionistic allusions, quite a few of which are way out there and deserve pondering.
After reading this and "Day of the Locust" I have to agree that West was a master.
There's something horrible about this book, in the way that Miss Lonelyhearts goes through the motions of humanity.
Each day he is greeted by a stack of papers upon which the essence of human suffering are written.
He responds in every way possible through out the book, which makes it a truly fascinating exploration of our condition and our ability to cope with the suffering of others.
To bring out such a range of reaction in the reader, to make reality a mirror to this text is the brillance of Miss Lonelyhearts.
The Pole Riders Win Again Third, maybe fourth, time that I've read this novelette. All within this lifetime, mind you, so there's no Shirley MacLaine-type Past Lives Pavilion New Age Spirituality Transcendental Meditation Exploration going on here.And if there were, I'd probably be on my eighth reading of the novelette.Anyway, I've read the thing several times because I simply love it. Not because I'm a dimwitted former member of parliament.In fact, I'm still a member of parliament.This is a gr
The Pole Riders Win Again
Third, maybe fourth, time that I've read this novelette.
All within this lifetime, mind you, so there's no Shirley MacLaine-type Past Lives Pavilion New Age Spirituality Transcendental Meditation Exploration going on here.And if there were, I'd probably be on my eighth reading of the novelette.Anyway, I've read the thing several times because I simply love it.
Not because I'm a dimwitted former member of parliament.In fact, I'm still a member of parliament.This is a great novel from a great author regardless of where you might very well stand regarding a narcissistic Christ complex whereby implied oppression banishes the individuality of devotees and undermines any stated spiritual growth.
What a bizarre book. Maybe it's that it was written so long ago, but I just found so many of the dialogue, scenes, and situations so strange that I didn't get people's responses to anything about 95% of the time.
As always, the literary choices of Harold Bloom are the best for me.
I’m going to need some whiskey and gin now, please.Well-written and deeply cynical and a little too much even for me, right now.
A stunning and stark journey into the pit of darkness, this is a book one can hardly put down even though the train wreck of a conclusion is observable from the beginning.
This book was not at all what I expected, especially the identity of Miss Lonelyhearts, but I liked it a lot. The tone reminds me a bit of Invisible Man--sort of detached and ironic.
The main reason the Miss Lonelyhearts column exists is the voyeuristic instinct to read about other peoples problems.
If that is meant as dark satire, that's getting too dark.Another observation, while reading this story, is comparing the social media available during the Depression era and that of today, now overwhelmingly narcissistic self promotion.Here's a powerful piece of writing to reflect on and come back to.'He found himself in the window of a pawnshop full of fur coats, diamond rings, watches, shotguns, fishing tackle, mandolins.
All these thing were the paraphernalia of suffering: Man has a tropism for order.
Miss Lonelyhearts tells of a newspaper columnist who writes an advice column.
The story ends with him being celebrated as a martyr for the American Dream.
The two stories are similar in mood yet vastly different in their writing styles.
Miss Lonelyhouse requires more effort and reflection to identify the motifs and analogies, but A Cool Million is a harder pill to swallow because you shudder with every sentence to read of how Lem will next be tricked or beaten or otherwise unrighteously dealt by.
A Cool Million on the other hand has an easy, light-hearted, almost fairy tale like tone that clashes with and highlights the bitterness of Lem's fate.I wouldn't say either story is easy to read.
I knew almost nothing about him before picking up this greying little 100 page book for a dollar at Black Oak. When I'd finished it a couple of days later, I was in love!Nathanael West was born Nathan Weinstein in 1903 in Manhattan.
He immediately reminded me so much of Holden Caulfield - and in fact the whole book feels very much like a precursor to Catcher in the Rye in tone and message.Finally, the real star of Miss Lonelyhearts is not the boyish antihero after whom it is named, but West himself and his unflinching playfulness with language.
that deal with difficult and tragic themes.So, last week I decided to return to the work after reading that Flannery O'Connor (one of my favorite American writers) said it was one of her two favorite modern novels (the other being Faulkner's As I Lay Dying).
Since this blog is more about how stories are essential to our lives as opposed to a traditional book review, I'll confine my remarks to that perspective.I think the story deals with the conflict....Read more of my review on my blog: Your Life for a Story.
Sometimes I’ve pouted through the books and then there are times where the list leads me to a new author and gem that I would have missed completely.Miss Lonelyhearts is Nathanael West’s most famous book, through really, it is a novella.
His fiance encourages him to quit his job, his editor makes a mockery out of his emotional response to these letters and even God and religion, he feels, fail him.I’ve read commentary on the book which states that, in some ways, Miss Lonelyhearts is a representation of Christ.
I think West’s Miss Lonelyhearts should be added to that list.
Miss Lonelyhearts was not a story I enjoyed.
However, a story does not have to be enjoyed to qualify as a significant piece of writing.
Writing in the midst of one of America's darker chapters...the Great Depression...West employs the spare and dark prose a reader might more readily expect from a post-modern, post-God, contemporary nihilist.
Miss Lonelyhearts is the pseudonym for an otherwise nameless man who writes an advice column for a newspaper.
If you have never read Nathaniel West, I would suggest beginning with the somewhat more structured and palatable "The Days of the Locust" and then moving on to Miss Lonelyhearts.
This is one of those works that tells about a place in time and a certain sense of loneliness that seems timeless that never seemed to get its due recognition.Miss Lonelyhearts ia actually a man who must answer the advice letters that come into the paper...and these letters enlist is help in every topic that seems imaginable.
Passages I liked:pg 9 "He knew now what this thing was-hysteria, a snake whose scales are tiny mirrors i which the dead world takes on a semblance of life.
He wondered if hysteria were really too steep a price to pay for bringing it to life."pg 17 Miss Lonelyhearts put his arm around the old man.
The title character fails to complete a full revolution of any system in the novella, instead falling prey to a severely brutal brand of violence.
He feels that “all order is doomed, yet the battle is worth while.” The broken systems of West’s narrative suggest that the inherent violence of human beings precludes the successful progress of any social system, particularly on a spiritual and empathetic level.
West's cynical view of society and human nature makes sense within the context of a Depression narrative.
He left behind him a very small body of work – one short novel and three novellas.
His best-known work is probably his novella Miss Lonelyhearts.
Miss Lonelyhearts is a man who writes an advice column for a New York newspaper.
The endless parade of human misery and meaningless suffering that he encounters no longer merely depresses him, it increasingly makes him angry and violent.
Something perhaps even more relevant to our own times than to theirs – the human tendency to respond to injustice and to the suffering of others with anger towards the victims.
you get to read the letters ML sees, which is a nice pierce point, a "performative nexus" we'll call it, i.e. you get to feel, ever so slightly, how he must feel.
but NW's style is really seductive--you come out thinking this is the only way one should write.
i'm sure the first few things i wrote after reading this book were with a syntax not my own.
But Miss Lonelyhearts is a he, not a she, and that’s only the beginning of the ways Miss Lonelyhearts deceives her readers.
Though he feels pity for his readers and their terrible lives, Miss Lonelyhearts has little to offer to help them.
He obsesses over the troubles of his readers but no one is able to help him.
Miss Lonelyhearts tries several ways to help himself but all fail.
I read it twice, the second time after reading some commentary about the novel, and the second reading was a rich reading for me.
Published in 1933, this short work by the author of THE DAY OF THE LOCUST shares a strikingly similar tone of despair and desperation with its Hollywood-focused counterpart, yet has its own unique voice, as well.
The protagonist, referred to only by the name of his newspaper column, Miss Lonelyhearts, is drawn by Nathanael West as a pathetic yet endearingly earnest man, who strives to uplift the world of others as an attempt to improve the fortune of his own life.
The literary language is always interesting and unique, striving for heights of elegance, absurdity and truth.
My only problem with this novel(la?) is that West mocks our self-absorbed society but then doesn't offer an alternative to the illusory pleasure of modern life.
But at least O'Connor offers us a way out of the despair (though it is a terrifying alternative): the often violent grace of God. Nathanael West seems to tell the same sort of jokes, only there are no punchlines.
Reading O'Connor, then, is like finding a little bit of sugar at the bottom of a cup of bitter coffee.
Reading West is like drinking the same coffee only finding gritty chunks at the bottom.
Nathanael West's Miss Lonelyhearts is one of the most brutal satires ever written, and, unlike many of the best satires, it is also a successful drama.
The laughs come often, but they are joyless; the book is quite bitter indeed and the jokes cut like razors.
The abundant suffering chronicled in the book is contrasted with the strange (and sometimes blasphemous) Christian images and themes; what could have been a sharp little satire becomes something very odd and, I think, wonderful.
Miss Lonelyhearts inability to really help those in need is a blatant echo of unanswered prayers to Jesus.
Miss Lonelyhearts is a short, but unforgettable read.
Miss Lonelyhearts was packaged with the copy of The Day of the Locust that I purchased, so I felt obliged to read it as well.
It is the story of a man who answers the Miss Lonelyheart letters at a New York paper during the depression.
The theme of salvation and religion are so heavy handed and obvious, the final scene is very predictable.
The book itself is almost it's own Cliff Notes with many passages specifically spelling out for the reader what is going on.
In one scene a character actually tells another "I have a Christ complex".
Better, I say unto you, better a live bird in the jungle of the body than two stuffed birds on the library table.When to the suddenness of melody the echo parting falls the failing day.Tod recognized the music.
The God it invited was not the King of Kings, but a shy and gentle Christ, a maiden surrounded by maidens, and the invitation was to a lawn fete, not to the home of some weary, suffering sinner.
*Review of Miss Lonelyhearts*I enjoyed the premise for this one - an advice columnist becomes jaded and depressed by the sheer volume and weight of misery he is sent from desperate New Yorkers on a daily basis.
I feel many of the reviews are appreciative purely because it was experimental and did something new and unusual for its time but I just don't think it would get published today.
I do feel that it was maybe a forerunner to later existential novels from Sartre or Camus, so that's something, I guess.
Ugh. What an utterly lousy book.Don't get me wrong, West can turn a phrase -- a lot of his imagery is great.
Like this from page 1:"And on most days he received more than thirty letters, all of them alike, stamped from the dough of suffering with a heart-shaped cookie knife."But his word play, his imagery, his skill is wasted on a pointless story about ugly people thinking ugly thoughts and doing ugly things to each other for no reason at all.Oh, can't forget--that all leads up to an ending as predictable and lazy as it is cliché.Thanks for nothing, Trebek.
