https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304344.The_Man_Who_Loved_Children
It is when you are reading a longish book and thinking you hate the fucking thing but it’s not quiiiiiiiiiite bad enough to say THAT’S ENOUGH and there are these great billowing clouds of praise for this thing urging you onwards and you’re looking, looking for the scene, the page, the paragraph which will make you stop dead and say THUS FAR AND NO FARTHER….

Two days after having read The Man Who Loved Children and I'm finally settling down.
I have to confess that I am -not- in the company of those parents who have not ever wondered, however much I love my children, what it would have been like to have lived a life without them, what I might have achieved or enjoyed if I didn't have an obligation to love and care for them.
That's what it felt like to read The Man Who Loved Children.
Because Sam's awfulness, his sexism, his white liberal oblivious scientific morality is the groan-inducing, painfully familiar sort, I think.
How do you feel about that?”“They feel, sah, that the darkest races are the oldest; it is not so long since the white man became powerful.
That is how we feel sah, he is an accident.”This surprising answer quieted Sam for a space; at length he answered,“This is a wrong idea you have Abishegenaden; the Egyptians were pale (coppery at best); even the very darkest among you are descended long ago from whitish or pale people like the ancient Persians.
Just before the release of ‘Freedom,’ Franzen wrote an appreciation of Christina Stead’s ‘The Man Who Loved Children’ in the New York Times.
The time to stop and think about what this book means is after you’ve read it.You surely won’t be able to as you read ‘The Man Who Loved Children.’ It grasps you in the strongest of grips, refusing to let you go until its perfect, dazzling, dizzying ending.
It’s ‘The Moffats Meet Blue Velvet.’A large man of overpowering whiteness, unbearably earnest, Sam Pollitt is the kind of person who takes up all the space in a room, not by getting in your face so much as by his total assurance that he is always completely right.
If Shakespeare had written this, we'd call it one of his 'difficult' plays.
If Donna Tartt had written it we'd be dead from the shock.
As exquisitely tailored as The Goldfinch is, this book is not.
Christina Stead, who was capable of great neatness in prose, took it upon herself in this book to write as people actually live and actually speak.
Can a writer get away with telling it - really telling it - how it is: every mundane statement, tedious repetition, tawdry detail.
I'd say, based on this book, a qualified 'yes'.
The greatest novel I've ever read about a certain type of family life. Stead is simultaneously intimate and expansive: it's like we're reading an adaptation of some deep myth or television sitcom. Bonus: Sam's "little language," the familyspeak that swamps Hetty because her own is so much less vigorous. And that's what I love about the book. It's like Christina Stead took all of American culture and spirit, wrapped it up into a single character (Sam Pollit), and then blew it off her finger. Sam as a sort of fat Emerson (another man who loved mankind, but hated people).
At first, the Pollit family seems to be nothing particularly special - colourful, interesting, mildly dysfunctional, going through a rough patch perhaps - but the book continues and at some stage (you can't tell exactly where) the horror begins, and it intensifies as things go on and on, apparently with no end.
I was inclined at the beginning not to take things seriously: it was a nice book about an interesting family, written by an underappreciated Australian Marxist woman who knew how to turn a damn fine phrase.
Disturbing…An uncomfortable fiction…About a family…A plausible text one would expect to find in a Woman’s Studies course in University…A look at Narcissism and its slow but alarmingly malignant effects within a household…Abuse, in its worst form, invisible…Six hundred pages about dysfunction under one roof…Prose as vexing and errant as Joyce, Faulkner.Discord, warring, struggles between 'husband and wife'-'father and children'-'mother and children'-siblings between themselves...misogyny, misandry…penury…the cancer that is silence, the silence that is cancer…the false facades we implement without thought but often by design, not only in society but in living rooms…tolerance and intolerance…boundaries…fresh air and suffocation…all behind closed doors…Kith and kin, a bus ride without democratic stops…the twins…the obese daughter…'the ugliness of a family-contrary to the commandments, lifestyle zines, our addled perception of the neighbors,' without external props…the caprices of mother…the doting, zany, intrusive father…each child’s weltanschauung…the purview from a ten-year-old, a twelve-year-old…a daughter, a son, six-year old twins…The subjective and individualized ruminations of husband and wife…The animus that exists silently, percolating, illegible…the inability for either spouse to understand the other...the grappling between hope and reality, desire and need…the acceptance, ambivalence of loss…Oh, how pitiful are we.
I absolutely do not get the appeal of this book.
How it shows up on some "great reads of the 20th Century" lists, I don't know.
It was difficult to read and bizarre...neither in a good way.The story surrounds a dysfunctional family, but the conflicts never peak, or even simmer with appeal.
The creepy father (who drives you crazy with his baby talk), carries on in oblivion while the family collapses.
Many reviews indicate that the last two chapters are worth the wait; I disagree.I regret the time I invested in this book.
I pushed through it in hopes of finding redemption.
The man who loved children could have killed all of his children, his half-witted sister, his irritating wife and himself in the first chapter and saved me lot of boredom.
I can sort of see why some might like the novel; I did not.
I thought it was boring.
You would think a novel about spouses who hate each other, the wife always threatening suicide, various other small homespun dramas thrown in, would be interesting to read.
Perhaps if it had been interesting I could have forgotten all of the really annoying aspects of it.
REALLY boring!
REALLY boring!
REALLY boring!
REALLY boring!
REALLY boring!
Reading Christina Stead’s The Man Who Loved Children is something like being born into the Pollit household yourself: you are mesmerized and disoriented by a dialect, a cadence, a register that mysteriously cohere to become a world.
It shouts for tea and sings and sweats and coughs on you when you open it to read.If the book has its faults – and there are plenty of people, like Randall Jarrell in his introduction (better read as an afterword), glad to point them out to you – they are nature’s own: gratuitous detail, excess of vitality, general overabundance.
During the first 150 pages I kept wondering if it would ever end, if the book would continue in this fashion, with nothing happening and more unspeakable speeches and horrible insults.
These are horrible people, but you start to see why it was necessary to live with them for those first pages, to understand that caged mentality outside of any plot, to see them for their everyday shittiness before you can fully embark on the journey that is this novel.Because you slowly are moved from being an outsider looking into the family into an insider, belonging in the family.
This is a strange book. My knowledge of Australian based or influence literature is very lacking. The writer, Stead, was born down under but the book takes place in Washington. So really what is it? It reads like magic realism, but it’s not really. In some ways, Stead reminds me of Angela Carter with a slightly less dark and gothic. Then again, it reminds me of a more tragic version of Monty Python. Then again, another turn, it reminds me life. The novel tells the story of Louie who lives with h
The writer, Stead, was born down under but the book takes place in Washington.
In some ways, Stead reminds me of Angela Carter with a slightly less dark and gothic.
Then again, it reminds me of a more tragic version of Monty Python.
Then again, another turn, it reminds me life.
Henny, the stepmother, knows what drives Sam and herself, while Sam is far less sympathic though at first he might come across as more sympathy.
Far more female, if I can say that without being accused of being sexist.
And it is in that instance, it conveys the truth of life.
This book grows on you slowly, and, in adjusting you to the sharply realised Pollit crew, demands your complete emotional investment.The titular character is the immensely annoying patriarch, Sam, the prime factor in one's desire to put down the book - that is, until you realise what a monster he is; that his childish speech, sexism and huge egotism make living with him impossible.
It requires the reader to learn about a family mostly by observing their speech patterns and chaotic daily life.
Like real life, the family in the book is irreducible to simple dichotomies or pop-psychology cliches.
A novel I'd heard about ever since I was a kid, but never referenced outside of especially mildewy paperbacks, I read this (I'm guessing like most people on here) because of J.
While each member of the family is quite well sketched out, it's the father figure-- as the title would imply-- who is the focus of the action, repugnant, sentimental fuck that he is, like a minor character from a really bleak Cassavetes film.
It's not an easy read, and it took me quite a while to get into the groove of it.
Randall Jarrell gave it a bit of a revival in the 60s (and a perceptive introduction, reproduced in the new edition) and Jonathan Franzen recently gave the novel high praise in the New York Times Book Review, saying that its depiction of the psychological violence of family life "makes Revolutionary Road look like Everybody Loves Raymond." It is a remarkable book, and it deserves readers, but those readers will not be in for an easy time.
The great white whale of this novel is Sam's wife Henny, a skinny, dark, implacable force of nature (her own), a mother who is trapped, hopeless, who lives a life of violence and despair.
I found this book difficult to get into because I began with the introduction.
I've never read a book that brought back memories of my own childhood in such a rush as this book did.
Everything in The Man Who Loved Children is over the top and over done, but that's the way it was in my family as well.In the end, this book deserves the resurgence it is experiencing, but it is a book that I admire more than I love.
I read the introduction as an afterward and it made a lot more sense.
This was another hard book to challenge myself, like Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. I got to page 69 and I just wanted something to happen.
Do I get to count it as "read"?
I didn't mind that the characters weren't likeable, but I wanted something to happen, and I realized I was dreading opening it for my morning read on the exercise bike.
Later I flipped through it (not even skimmed, it's too long) and read the ending.
I'll read the Randall Jarrell introduction and the recent Jonathan Lethem essay in the NY Times.
Oh, how I hated this book. I should have known when Jonathan Franzen recommended it so strongly in the NYT book review. There is not a single likeable character, and the book is tedious, unpleasant, and very hard to read. I was the only hardy soul in my book group who didn't put it down in disgust..I actually finished it. This is sad, since I probably could have read several actually good books while I wrestled with this one.
I know this book is a product of its time, but I found this incredibly difficult to pick up, and very easy to put down.
It's a classic, and everyone raves about the style of writing, which just strikes me as rambling, with paragraphs that stretch on for pages, and descriptions of everything ad infinitum.
Further, the phonetic way of speaking, and attitudes of the two parents was so incredibly grating.
The plot, such as it was, moved very slowly, and occasionally presented some incredibly shocking ideas, and then dismissed them without any discourse.
There is something in Sam Pollit, a man who drags his wife and children through the most extreme of poverty, that hits close to home, and I found the novel engrossing and compelling, without finding it the easiest of reads.
In his misplaced sense of superiority, he neither notices nor cares that his children go hungry and are badly dressed, and that his wife distresses herself to meet his needs.
Sam truly believes his children adore him because they could ask for nothing more in a father, when all the while not realising that they are simply children, and know no better.
Sam Pollit and Henny Pollit are such unlikeable characters but the book illustrates Tolstoy's claim that Happy Family are all alike but unhappy families are unhappy in their own ways.
Henny was born to a rich Boston family but after marrying Sam and left raising the children and running the house of a man too busy living in his dreams has become a nasty, screechy, awful woman.
If you have ever ran into someone who thinks that the whole world is set up as some awful farce to fuck her over you have met someone of Henny's ilk.
Will I finish this book?
In "Anna Karenina", Tolstoj a incipit del romanzo diceva: "Tutte le famiglie felici si assomigliano fra loro, ogni famiglia infelice è infelice a modo suo" e conoscendo meglio la famiglia Pollit, si potrebbe dire che questa citazione è appropriata."Sabba familiare" è una saga familiare di cui Christina Stead tesse benissimo le fila, fila che riflettono più un esercizio di stile che una vera e propria trama.
Prolisso e a tratti ripetitivo, "Sabba familiare" è un romanzo di non facile lettura che non permette di empatizzare con i personaggi, che risultano freddi agli occhi del lettore.
Meh. 527 pages of two people hurling verbal, emotional, and physical abuse upon one another and their children.
527 pages of no growth or character development in any of them, no regrets, very little else happening.
Not one likable character in the whole book.
In fact, I would nominate Sam Pollit, the father, as perhaps the most despicable, evil, vile character in American fiction.
Mostly because he really doesn't notice, ever, how misogynistic,racist, mean, cruel, and ignorant he is.
And he spends most of the novel talking in a weird baby talk that's just inexcusable.
Anyway, supposedly an American classic, blah blah blah.
Let me provide you with a comparison: I recently watched "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" and the characters in that movie are not easy to like but I felt for them, I could relate to their struggle under their exterior actions and interior hatred, but with this novel, I just wished the worst to happen to each of them and as they go on and continue to do asinine things, like bringing yet another kid into this world and into their lives, I reached the point where I was saying out loud, "good, destroy your life, find a new home or don't, I really could care less".
Parole inventate dal marito per sorprendere i figli, filastrocche, teorie sul mondo inventate in famiglia, quasi a voler riprodurre nelle strampalate liti della famiglia Pollit, un'atmosfera da famiglia americana moderna che in realtà non esiste.
Perché non c'è niente da fare è un libro che non si fa leggere con partecipazione e allo stesso tempo non si fa lasciare, ti richiama indietro per più ragioni, per la lingua divagante, prodigiosa e un tantinello svitata di Christina Stead, per la critica alla pedagogia familiare, suo marito un campione di retorica dei buoni sentimenti e buone azioni da impartire ai figli come fossero giovani marmotte, racconta aneddoti edificanti, li intrattiene in modo bislacco ma trasmette un mondo falso, inesistente.
I didn’t like the wife/mother as she is a weakling however at least she seems to be who she is but the husband, all charms and goodness (or so it seems) but such a child (as was pointed out a number of times in the novel, unwilling to grow) and his made up words used throughout the novel nearly killed me.
My inability to enjoy this book was probably made worse as I was also listening to an audiobook where the husband killed his wife (true crime!); she was leaving him after 2 decades of marriage to escape his controlling & rather violent nature.
Perhaps I was naive to be so shocked by this grotesque 1940s tale of chaos and family dysfunction set in D.C. Baltimore heiress Henrietta Collyer is married off to a zany, hardscrabble conservationist named Sam Pollit -- and what follows is an explosively unhappy (if high-yielding) marriage.
I'll be damned if almost every page didn't made me cringe: the father's narcissism, the mother's hysteria, the sheer filth of their encroaching poverty, the childrens' constant suffering and neglect.
And though the plot bobbed along slowly as trash in the Anacostia, it provided time for me to think about its greatest theme: the entrapment of its women characters by incessant pregnancy, spinsterhood, poverty,and psychological torment.
I hadn't read an older book in a while, and I had heard it was an amazing classic, so I gave it a try.
But this was not the book for me.
It's hard to decide whom to hate more: the vicious, selfish, spoiled wife Henny who sees the world through shit-colored glasses, abuses her children (and especially her stepdaughter) and whines constantly about her come-down in life of having married a self-made made man.
Or her husband who is manipulative, inappropriately needy and whiny with his children, blathers on fatuously about the joys of life and children, and basically just does whatever he wants the whole time.
