https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122211.Disappearing_Acts
So basically I've just read 474 pages chronicling the never ending cycle of abuse on behalf of Zora...If she didn't decide to stay after an exhausting amount of verbal, physical and sexual abuse, I would have praised this book as a work of women's empowerment. In true McMillan fashion the characters are 3 dimensional but the pathetic nature of them makes a reader quite uncomfortable. I can think of many alternate endings to this story that would have placed it at 5+ stars, however the ending presented a large disappointment.
"Waiting to Exhale" received all of the acclaim and is the book that changed the face of publishing to a significant degree as the industry suddenly realized that African Americans read too, and sometimes even like to read about fictional characters who remind them of themselves. But in my opinion this is Ms. McMillan's strongest novel. It's easy to become immersed in her work, forgetting that you're reading and instead envisioning yourself as a fly on the wall easedropping on lives that seem as real as those of your friends and neighbors.
Excellent!
1.5 STARS"Franklin's tired of women, tired of trouble.
But his ex-wife's riding him for money to keep their two children, and there's no security in construction work.
All Franklin really wants is to stay together, stay in work and, most of all, stay out of love.And Zora.
Everything - their pasts, their independence, their plans - evaporates in the electric charge of one of the most passionate, turbulent and memorable affairs in contemporary fiction..." (From Amazon) It was well-written but I did not like the storyline or Franklin.
This book started off pretty good.
I am mid way through the book and I find myself having to motivate myself to continue on.
There is no better time than the present to make a lifestyle change.
But this book is making me regret that change.It is way too mushy for my taste.
And Zora is a pathetic fool who is madly in love with Franklin; a man who not only does nothing for her but take her to bed but is demanding, controlling, unemployed, married, a deadbeat father of two, and finds a way to ruin every chance Zora has of having a little fun.
The movies was so much better....Thank goodness!
I was so absorbed by this book.
Love with the perspective of both man and woman which was done in an interesting way.
The man's thoughts in one chapter-moving on to the woman's.
Love, struggles with betrayal, strength, intelligence, bread winner, etc.
No ending from me but will recommend to anyone who likes great fiction.
You also get a good look at minorities' (this one African American) special struggles.
I am happy to have come across an author like Terry McMillan and will be looking for more of her books.
This is another typical McMillan novel. I just couldn't get my mind around these characters. At a certain point sympathy turns to pity.
I’ve enjoyed other books by McMillan, but unfortunately this isn’t one of them...The characters start off so flawed and downtrodden that it’s hard to like them or find any endearing qualities from the start.I felt like the story had a pretty good start and then it turned into a bad Tyler Perry movie. Rather than empathy or sympathy, what I felt was frustration and pity for the characters’ peril. Overall, I would give it maybe 1.5 stars, I was just underwhelmed especially since this story was developed into a movie, I had higher expectations.
I’m reviewing the book Disappearing Acts by Terry McMillan. It’s a fictional book about a black woman and man who struggle with society’s views, relationships, and life in general. Disappearing Acts is based on the everyday struggles of a black woman Zora, and man Franklin, living in New York during the 80’s. Franklin is a tall handsome handyman who works construction. He’s very intelligent, but knows that means little when your black and a high school dropout. Franklin feels no one will ever gi
It’s a fictional book about a black woman and man who struggle with society’s views, relationships, and life in general.
Disappearing Acts is based on the everyday struggles of a black woman Zora, and man Franklin, living in New York during the 80’s.
Although Zora is hesitant not knowing much about Franklin they quickly find their relationship going from zero to sixty in three months.
They find out their bond might not be as strong as they thought, and Franklin feels he needs some time to accomplish what he had set out to do before meeting Zora.
I liked that Terry McMillan dived right into the storyline.
And the fact that it was a romance pulled me right in.
But I won't lie, I spent most of the time trying to figure out when Zora was going to leave Franklin for good.
It didn't seem like Zora and Franklin had a lot of good times and he was so insufferable.
Throughout most of the book I wondered why they Zora was still dealing with him.
I wasn't committed to their relationship or "love" and for must of the book wondered where the romance and love was.
Devoured....still holds up.
Zora seemed like the perfect ambitious woman who met the wrong man (kind of sorta) don't get me wrong Franklin was a good guy too I just believe he could have done better by Zora and his baby.
I fell in love with Zora from the movie & the book I did not find out about the movie until I was done with the book and I believe the casting was done perfectly.
Zora was a classy, talented, good woman who just fell in love with the wrong man believing she could change him.
I'm not really a Terry McMillan fan, but I really admired this book. I thought it was a pretty honest portrayal of the progression of a romantic relationship-- first you're enamored; then you're disillusioned, sometimes to the point of being disturbed; then, maybe, you find your way back to each other. It's not an uncommon storyline, but the way she exposes her characters' darker (yet utterly mundane) side is pretty unusual in fiction.
It was a pretty book. Yes, I said pretty NOT pretty good or pretty bad.. just pretty. Like you would call a person pretty. I hated the ending by the way.. after all I went through (via the character's lives)... by the end... I wasn't SOO satisfied with the outcome. But the story was nice. Terry McMillan is ON POINT!
Too many p@&$!, d@&$, and mf's for my taste. Franklin appeared to be your average 'mad at the white man' black man who put his blame on everyone else. Zora, a successful woman struggling to love him, but at the same time settling for a man that added to her hardships instead of helping her get to where she was trying to go...
Franklin is just pathetic and whiny and needy and frustrating and selfish and Zora was just stupid to stick around with him for so long! I flew through this book waiting for Zora to get her act together and was PISSED at the end when she let the loser back into her life!
This was my first introduction to Terry McMillan. The storyline and characters were well developed and I found myself sharing in the joy, pain, and confusion that sometimes arose.
I ended feeling a lot of conflict about this book. Terry McMillan's writing is fabulous and she created vivid characters that I empathized with - to a point. It crossed into rape and domestic abuse and that's when (is it just living in 2018?) my (feminist?) sense of right and wrong reached a point of no return for Franklin and Zora became an unsympathetic victim. I'm so pissed at Zora for staying with Franklin in the end. He doesn't deserve her.
The Disappearing Acts The Disappearing Acts is a realistic fiction novel by Terry Mcmillan. The theme of the book is to not let a man corrupt your personal beliefs and decisions. The Disappearing Acts mainly focuses on Zora an aspiring singer who meets a man named Franklin, who is not so stable but she falls in love wit him. Zora moves to New York to try and get her singing career started and Franklin was one of the contractors working on some renovations in her new apartment. They begin dating
Zora feels that Franklin is more worried about providing for her than loving her like he should.
This book reminds me of the other Terry McMillan book “How Stella Got Her Groove Back” which is about a woman named Stella who goes to Jamaica on vacation and meets a man half her age and their relationship had some insecurity issues just like Franklin and Zora.
I personally didn’t like this book because it was a bit to grown for me I hardly know about half the things she was feeling because she was a grown having to make life decisions at times and I am a teenager.
I read Getting to Happy and didn't think it was all that bad ....
I also read Who Asked You and while I didn't truly enjoy it, it also primed my interest in more Terry McMillan, so on the suggestion and encouragement of a few friends, I took it all the way back to Disappearing Acts.Ya'll know i don't do summaries in my reviews, so I won't bore you with details you can look up.
Zora had a lot of wonderfully patient people in her life, people who I think saved her behind when she needed it!
Disappearing Acts is the only book I've read by this author.
What made me enjoy the book so thoroughly was the way the characters were developed in alternating chapters, each describing an incident as reflected by his/her point of view.
As time passes and their relationship inevitably changes, I found myself carried along - then caring about - what happened to these two people.
It didn't matter to me whether I agreed with one or the other, was annoyed with or, at times, irritated by both.
Be it empathy or sympathy, the fact is this writer held my interest and made me feel - which is what I liked best about the book.
Read this book around 1991-92 after reading an except of it in an Essence magazine.
Back then, no one knew Terry McMillan so the book was very hard to find (at least hard to find in Birmingham LOL).
I thoroughly enjoyed the book and still consider it one of her best.
I think that it would still be a great read, however, there are events, people and places in the book that will date it (Stephanie Mills was still recording and touring).
The movie, which I was so excited about, was, like most books to movie, horrible.
My question to Zora does Franklin deserve your love?The story line resonates with me. Franklin and Zora are untangled in this web of disappointment, deception, abuse, and love. Although they both aware of declining of their relationship, they decided to weather the storm. The final outcome is to do your homework before getting deeply involve in a relationship.
This book, from the moment I picked it up, I was unable to put down. It was GREAT, TERRIFIC, AMAZING, I can barely find words to fit this beautiful book. Filled with betrayal, anger, pride, and love, this book amazed me. I didn't even want to return it to the library. THis book is beautiful, it's really a work of art.
Even though its been years since I read this book. I still can say what a great book it was. Disappearings acts is one of my favorite books that I can say, I read more than once. I wont spoil the book but, believe me when I say......you wont want to put it down.
This book is a really amazing book. I liked it because it was real life, I felt like I was talking to my friends and they were telling me there problems. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone, a great read
One of the first books I read in high school. I always enjoyed reading the work of Terry and her sister.
I love this book so much. Easily my favorite by Terry McMillan.
I think this is the best written of Terry McMillan's books.
This is a amazing novel, however if you are not a fan of profanity than you are not going to like it. It told a good story and I related to some of the characters, it is worth reading.
