https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16183.The_Virgin_s_Lover
This book taught me something about myself: I have to have someone to root for in fiction.
Why would I want to read about people who revolt me?
Especially when it's a fiction, albeit well-researched.
I kept going because I wanted to know the story, the tidbits of history and culture, and Gregory is a good writer.
And I kept hoping that someone would learn something, that something edifying would emerge.
But all I learned is that I never want to rule a country, which I was fairly certain of before reading this.
I shall pet you and stroke you and rule you and call you George.Elizabeth: Ooo, Lord Robert!Me: Shut the hell up!With A Little More Thought:The verdict after reading The Other Boleyn Girl, The Boleyn Inheritance, The Queen's Fool and The Constant Princess is that this one is definitely the worst.I hated the way Elizabeth was portrayed.
Speaking of Amy's death, it was kind of a downer for someone like me who didn't know the history that they spoiled what happens at the end of the book on the back cover.
It bothers me that, rather than relying on the historical record, Gregory chose to portray Robsart as poorly educated, flaky and with no money of her own in order to make her seem more dependent on those that surrounded her.
Gregory also omits Robsart's visit to court in 1559, when she spent a month living in London.
Robsart is dependent on everyone who comes along and is an absolute ninny and Elizabeth is always wailing to either Cecil or Dudley.I kept reading to find out what would happen next, so in that way it was engaging.
This book absolutely enraged me. I normally like Phillippa Gregory for a trashy historical read but what she did in this novel made me not want to read her anymore. She takes Elizabeth the Great, arguably the greatest woman in the history of Western civilization, and turns her into a stupid whining weak, vapid character. There is literally a line in the book something where Elizabeth says something like, "Oh shut up. At least you have a man to make your decisions for you!" Boo! Hiss!
I love Gregory's books and was looking forward to this one because I love to read about Elizabeth I, but I was a bit disappointed in the way she is portrayed in this version.
I also switch between hating his first wife, Amy, and feeling sorry for her, though I think most of the time I feel like she should have seen that Robert was not going to come back to her and gotten on with her life.
The book was a good book, well written, interesting to read like all of Gregory's books, but I was disappointed in the way Elizabeth was portrayed.
I have watched the movie Elizabeth a long time ago, and really remembered none of it....but following the history from each book, and building on all the events in these stories, I have gained such a wealth of knowledge, and appreciation for this period of history.Since my knowledge of Elizabeth and her reign of power is very limited (pretty much nonexistant) I found her love affair with Dudley very intriguing; especially after following The Queen's Fool and learning a bit of background of his early relations to the monarch and Elizabeth herself.
I don't understand why this was one of the books for us to read.
It sounds like one of the author's other books would have made a much better choice.
The book should have been 200 pages, not 430.
Amy's story, Dudley's wife, is told with honesty and I fet sympathy for her.
The fact that Amy was dead made it less interesting for me to read but I slogged up to that point.
The cleverness of Gregory's writing shows through with Dudley's realization of the huge mistake he made: trading one good women who loved him and stood with him when he lost his prosperity and honor in the court, for the queen's quick love and the possible postion of being a king.
Gregory's attempt at maligning Elizabeth the First's character.Now, I knew she had a strong love of Queen Mary from "The Queen's Fool", where she attempted to paint Mary as a decisive, loving, and good queen who just fell upon hard times and was a victim of circumstance, instead of the inferior ruler, even if loving woman, that history shows us she is.
If you want a good look at Queen Elizabeth the First pick up ANY historical book on her life: her life is interesting enough without fiction.
I had high hopes for this novel, after the lovely experience I'd had with Phillipa Gregory's The Queen's Fool.I love just about anything to do with Queen Elizabeth I, and a historical novel of her romance with Robert Dudley was intriguing, to say the least.
Oh, the writing is not bad, although the number of typos and grammatical errors really threw me for a loop--how can a work of this calibre fail so miserably in basic grammar and punctuation?
The characters are well fleshed out, which Gregory always does well--humanizing historical characters.
Not bad.
Not great, but not bad.
It is astounding to me that Philippa Gregory, someone who generally depicts her female characters as strong and complex, would choose to depict England's first great female ruler as a simpering, lovesick, weak-willed girl.
I trudged through this story expecting Elizabeth to grow.
Elizabeth fails to become a great and strong ruler, Robert Dudley shows great remorse and even falls in love with his wife once she is dead and in an ending that could have been written by OJ, Amy Dudley's murder is attributed to royal machinations rather than the work of her husband.
Philippa Gregory ought to be ashamed of herself.
In a country full of turmoil, Sir Robert Dudley, longtime friend of Elizabeth since their days growing up at court together, seeks to better his position and maneuver himself into a position of power at Elizabeth's side.
Unfortunately, the only love Dudley's seeking is the Queen's.
However, the way these stories are composed by Ms. Gregory, I enjoy them so much that I actually find myself easily retaining all the information I so easily forgot before, even long after I finished the book.
And then she was ready to scheme with Cecil to remove him as a love interest and remove any hope Dudley has of becoming her husband and King of England.
Also, from the jacket cover, the story outline leads you to believe this book is about the issue of Amy's death and the impact it had on the Queen and her court, especially Dudley.
Amy didn't die until almost at the very end of the book (her death was on page 410 of about 438 pages of actual story material).
The scandal of her death and Elizabeth and Cecil's seemingly forehand knowledge is barely mentioned.
Really, really... not good. I think it really suffers from not having a Hannah Green or a Mary Boleyn--a character who's either fictional or relatively unknown to history who can view historical events from the sidelines. As it is, we're left with nothing but ridiculous Elizabeth/Dudley sex scenes. Gregory does have the courage, however, to make Amy Dudley both [sym]pathetic and really, truly annoying.
On top of this, the writing is once again riddled with redundancies that Gregory beats the reader over the head with - it is constantly repeated how Cecil hardly ever signs his name to documents, and how Elizabeth tears at the cuticles on her nails when she is nervous - and she can't seem to "show" instead of "tell".Amy Robsart is our intended heroine, although much of the focus revolves around Robert Dudley and his activities at court, one gets the distinct impression that Amy is who we're supposed to feel sympathy for.
I have read quite a few of Gregory's books, and I have noticed one thing:She likes to turn the tables on the way her characters are portrayed.Elizabeth I was a strong, smart, independent woman, right? WRONG, at least in this book. Essentially, all of the main characters are unlikeable, for one reason or another, and I do not think they are consistently written, especially when considering The Queen's Fool.Other than that, I think that the plotline she chose simply was not that interesting. There are others that she could have chosen.
I must stop reading Gregory's dreck! This is a bodice ripper thinly disguised as historical fiction. The repeated analogies of Robert Dudley treating Elizabeth I as a horse were repellent, and her characterizations of the three main characters left me disgusted.
Here we're punished with Gregory's weasely Dudley and spineless Elizabeth, two characters so off-putting that I could hardly muster the concern to keep reading, though of course I did because I'm for some reason incapable of abandoning a book.
NB, and a personal grievance: Must Gregory use the phrase "Good God!" every two pages?
My pride had to sneak that in.**Given my loathing of every other Philippa Gregory book I've ever read, I'm starting to wonder if I was on crack when I deemed TOBG a stellar historical soap opera.
I couldn't even finish this book. I didn't care about what happened to any of the characters, because none of them were good or even decent people. She made one the greatest female monarchs a total whore who couldn't decide anything and didn't seem to care as long as she was stealing her precious Robert Dudley away from his wife Amy, who, let's face it, is a dimwit. I couldn't bring myself to finish it, so the ending had better not have been totally impressive, because I am done with this book.
Now, I’m going to approach this review as more of a character study and while the novel is about Elizabeth I and her paramour, Robert Dudley, for me, The Virgin’s Lover became the story of Lady Dudley, the wife Robert Dudley cast aside most brutally upon Elizabeth’s ascension to the throne.I have always had high admiration for Elizabeth I, yet after reading this, I have to question my previous opinion.
From the moment Elizabeth ascended to the throne, Robert cast Amy aside, steadily ignoring her until it got to the point that he had openly abandoned her and publicly shamed her.
While I still enjoyed the The Virgin's Lover I was far from impressed because I know what Philippa Gregory has the capability of doing.The writing was still beautiful, as always, but the story line (though taken from history and elaborated upon) was lacking.
Perhaps that was Gregory's point, but even so, it wasn't kind on the reader.Also, I'm suspecting she wanted the reader to have read the first two books before this one, and remembered them because there was no family tree or character guide in the front of the book.
After a lifetime of hearing what a strong, brave, and effective Queen Elizabeth I was, this book was an extremely difficult read.
And even he had traits I did not want to root for.In that sense, this book is probably a fantastic piece of literature because it frustrated me so fully that I literally despised almost every character for their indisguisable corruptness and misgivings.
This was a first for me when reading a book.
This one.just happened to pull on the less pleasurable emotions, haha.Having read The Other Boleyn Girl a few years ago, I found this book lacking in attention grabbing.
I am a huge fan of Philippa Gregory but this book I almost couldn't finish.
I’m not big on reading about infidelity in the first place but what annoyed me the most was Ms. Gregory’s depiction of Queen Elizabeth.
I have always believed Elizabeth was a rather unpleasant person but she was a great queen who refused to compromise her beliefs or be persuaded she was less of a person because she was a woman.
If you are a fan of Tudor fiction or Philippa Gregory, I suggest not reading this book, it left me disappointed and doubting a good author.
It took me FOREVER to finish this book... primarily because of how the author portrayed Queen Elizabeth. If this was an honest depiction or not, she was a truly annoying and whiny woman! Which typical novels/movies about Queen Elizabeth are quite the opposite. The novel didn't ever seem to be going anywhere either. Patience definitely required for this book.
I am a fan of the author, Philippa Gregory.
I was intrigued to know what happened between Queen Elizabeth and Lord Robert Dudley.
It is a well known story and I wanted how this author would handle it.Gregory produces a wealth of period detail about Tudor England.
The French want "that woman"—Mary, Queen of Scots, on the throne of England.
Queen Elizabeth I ignores the matrimonial advice of her Secretary of State William Cecil.
And this allows Gregory to explore the love triangle between Amy Dudley, Elizabeth & Sir Robert.I was disappointed.
I think if you are a die hard fan of historical faction, buy this book.
Ooh, I think I have a crush on Robert Dudley! He's such a bad boy, swoon. Although I love Philippa Gregory's books, I wasn't particularly impressed with her treatment of Elizabeth I. Rather than the strong woman history has always led us to believe, here she's shown as weak and easily led and incapable of making a decision without a man's guidance. Amy Dudley is presented as a dullard and Robert Dudley veers from romantic hero to ambitious bastard.
Great fast paced read.
Hmmm: I gave up on the book 2/3 of the way through and, in retrospect, am surprised I stayed with it that long.It is a a long time since I studied Tudor history as a student, and even a few years since I last lectured on the subject, but I found so much here that did not match my own study and research on Elizabeth I.
None of the characters, not even Elizabeth's faithful Chancellor, William Cecil, are portrayed as attractive or likable, or even ones that you could sympathise with.I have read other books by Philippa Gregory: I like the way she lets you know what people think, as well as say, but this book is one where even that has not let me enjoy it.
I am quite disappointed with this book. I expected much more from a best-selling historical novel female-writer. The characters are flat, largely irritating, and they never develop. The world is shown from a narrow perspective of the elites only. The book is not wholly bad; it gives some insight into the events of the period, and the language is OK - though the dialogues do not differentiate from one character to another as they all speak in the same way. I do not feel encouraged to read another book by this author.
This is my 2nd book by Philippa Gregory, the first being "The Other Boleyn Girl" which I really quite enjoyed, and so I was looking forward about reading another book from this author, particularly one about Queen Elizabeth whom I have always been fascinated by.
In the first place I discovered that this book was more about Robert Dudley and the queens love affair with him than it really was about the queen herself and her rule, and to be honest I did not find Robert Dudley to be a very interesting character to read about.
Elizabeth came off as immature, childish, incompetent, so besotted by her love for Robert that she was completely incapable of ruling on her own.
I guess it's more that Elizabeth is maybe not as interesting to me as other figures of the Tudor court?
Or maybe it's just that I know Elizabeth had a long, successful reign and that she never married or had an heir?
I'm not sure what it was, but for whatever reason, I found some of the other Tudor court novels more gripping.I really enjoyed William Cecil's character here.
I also liked Elizabeth's character; however, it was frustrating at times to see her seem so incapable of reason and fortitude.
I did like this novel, but it just wasn't my favorite Gregory work.
