https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13602426-the-round-house
With The Round House she has used her mythic creative powers to give us a book that can be read as a page-turner about a terrible crime, the attempt to identify the criminal and take action, or as a rich, layered look at a culture in a place and time, and a lad coming of age within it, the tale imbued with telling details, a colorful palette of imagery and cultural significance.
There are two reasons for this: 1) As part of my Native American studies curriculum, I tried reading her children's book The Birchbark House to a class of second graders.
2) Louise Erdrich was married to Michael Dorris, a professor/writer whose claim to Native American heritage was called into question.
Even though the latter is no wrongdoing of Erdrich's, I never really shook off the negative connection to Dorris.I picked up The Round House before it was crowned the National Book Award winner because it received rave reviews on goodreads and because my local independent bookstore was selling signed copies.
I highly recommend this novel and yes, I will be reading more books by Louise Erdrich!
Great, interesting and fascinating story, variety of great and weird characters, a bit of surreal supernatural woven in, insights into the culture, traditions and life on an Indian reservation, the love of family and friends, a coming of age story which made me think a bit of Stand By Me. It's the story of Joe, 13 years old, living on an Indian reservation in North Dakota, whose mother is brutally attacked.
The mother in shock only stays in her bedroom, the father, a tribal judge, does not know what to do, and Joe wants to find the attacker.
There is obviously a lot of erudition about Native American lore, folkways and post-colonization history that went into this book.
And there are also the bones of a classic coming of age story here, along with some memorable characters -- the randy foul-mouthed octagenarian grandparents, the quirky postmistress who was abandoned by her white family and is a rare "adopted in" Native American, the fierce athletic priest etc.
There are a lot of detours, a few more characters than you can realistically keep track of (or care about), and one too many well meaning but ultimately dragging lectures on the Native American legal system and its relationship to white American law.
Through several of her past books, she has a great track record in bringing to life a memorable line of characters in the Ojibwe tribe in North Dakota over different epochs of history.
Here we get the vibrant portrait of a family on the reservation trying to recover from a brutal rape of the mother in 1988.
And his experimentation with alcohol with his buddies is not much fun given his sensitivity to its role in facilitating violence in so many families on the reservation.Another form of guidance for Joe derives from spirituality.
It is a good read, with some excellent characterization and I read it at a decent pace and enjoyed it while doing so.
I am content to give it 4 stars in the end.The good thing about this novel is that the suspense builds nicely, the story is an interesting one, and Louise Erdrich is a smart enough writer not to harangue the reader with “issues”.
The book is filled with real people, and there were times I was unexpectedly moved by some subtle element Erdrich created within a character.
Don’t read the critical blurbs printed in the book They overpraise “The Round House” to a ridiculous degree.
Okay, the main character, Joe, did struggle with the big issues of shame and morality, and he was well-drawn, but I didn’t really feel a whole lot for him (I might have been too annoyed at the author to have room to enjoy him much).I don’t understand why a good writer feels the need to add ghosts (the novel loses its veracity immediately).
I read Erdrich novels twenty years ago and liked them; this one didn’t cut it.
I can’t believe I’m giving Erdrich 2 stars, but I really didn’t like the book.
The Round House is narrated by Joe, a thirteen year old Indian boy (I hate the term “Native American": it sounds patronising to my ears unless you’re going to call all white Americans “ex Europeans” or some such nonsense: “Indians” might be daft but at least like “cowboys” it summons up the exotic wonder and affection of childhood) living on a reservation when the events depicted in the novel take place.
Joe will seek guidance from his father, one of his elders and from a Catholic priest, none of whom quite provides answers.
Told from the perspective of a 13 year old Indian boy in 1988, it is the story of how the brutal rape of his mother effects his life, the life of his family and his community. A New York Times best seller, many must find this book compelling, however I found the writing tedious and had a hard time finishing.
What a powerful book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/First things first, yes I am going to use gifs even whilst reviewing a real modern day classic. Don’t like it? Suck it.Okay. Now that that is out of the way let me ask you all a question: Are you a lunatic like me and sometimes actively seek out something in hopes that it will make you feel bad? If not, let me ‘splain things. I was born with a bit of a deficiency . . .  It takes a lot to make me have any emotion aside from happiness or
(Since I’m me that was the extent of my knowledge about this story before beginning.) I appreciated that there wasn’t much mystery surrounding the identity of the bad guy and I really appreciated the mother’s realistic reaction to the life-altering attack .
(That’s probably the part where normal people cry, but alas I am a robot and had zero feelings.)I also loooooooooooove a good coming of age story and Joe’s narration most definitely brought that to the table.
I'll stick to Sherman Alexie stories from now on if I'm looking for Native America coming of age.EDIT: To give credit where credit is due.
Louise Erdrich’s profound novel haunted my dreams and moved me to tears and laughter in my waking hours.Geraldine Coutts, an Ojibwe living on a reservation in North Dakota, doesn’t escape from her nightmare.
Erdrich captures each character’s emotions and reactions in vivid and graceful detail.The theme of family extends through the tribal community.
The communal responsibility demonstrates a solid foundation built on shared history and beliefs.Despite the violent crime that churns the plot, there many moments of levity and sweetness in The Round House The novel’s comic foil is Mooshom, Joe’s ancestor and tribal elder.
It ended up winning this year's award, so I'm glad I chose this novel to read over the other two I didn't get to.In an Ojibwe community, a mother is brutally raped.
The novel is told from her son's perspective as their family tries to heal and they attempt to catch who did this horrible thing.
Most of it is told in the time of the story, but occasionally the son steps back and sprinkles in details of things that happen in his adult life, such as his marriage and his career.
The novel also reads so easily that it is almost to its detriment.
My brief review Louise Erdrich successfully blended dialog, scenery and storylines into two related and life changing events; the rape of a wife and mother and the ‘coming of age’ for her son, Joe. The Ojibwe reservation is where the mother, Geraldine helps women on the reservation, the father, Bazil, a tribal judge and the story as told by their 13 year old, Joe.Geraldine, the woman, is brutally raped and afterward without telling anything about the assault, goes into self-imposed seclusion leaving Joe and his father, rudderless.
Her son, Joe, an adolescent, and his father, a reservation judge, want to find the culprit.
I won’t say what becomes of him, but it’s satisfying on multiple levels.Erdrich’s prose is fundamentally flat and her tone so pitch-perfect that here or there a particular word will sparkle from her verbal firmament like a kind of jewel.
Of the two Ehdrich novels I’ve read to date, the thing I most like about them is their sense of family and community.
Quite the reverse of my own experience, so Ehdrich’s family based stories touch me like a kind of balm.
I especially liked Joe’s father here, the judge.
I still haven't forgiven Louise Erdrich for The Crown of Columbus, that turd of a book she wrote with her then-husband, Michael Dorris.
I was actually fine with the main storyline of how a mother's brutal rape affects the entire family, UNTIL Erdrich began introducing minor characters with stories to tell that were far richer and more compelling than the "big" plot.
On a side note, this title will forever have the rather dubious distinction of being the book that convinced me that I need to watch Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Native American author Louise Erdrich successfully blends crime fiction with a revenge tale, a coming-of-age story, a narrative about racism and the depiction of life on a reservation - this is the stuff that National Book Award winners are made of.
At the heart of "The Round House" lies a specific social justice issue: While Native American tribes have their own courts, they can only prosecute tribal members - but over 80% of the perpetrators of rapes on reservations are non-Native, and most are not prosecuted.
I was pretty much sucked into this story from page 1. Erdrich's narration through the eyes of a 13 year old boy is masterful. It's a difficult book to read, for sure, and be warned that it covers some pretty intense topics like rape and abuse. But it's an important story as well, and Erdrich is able to look at some big injustices in light of one character's story in a way that makes it all the more enraging. And yet there is resilience and hope in these characters as they band together. I need to read more Erdrich immediately.
Geraldine's only way of recovering was to shut herself up in a shell of silence and darkness, while the young boy struggled to grow up before the sun rose the next morning.
His transformation from young boy to adult was suddenly inevitable and the consequences unforeseen.COMMENTSI've been holding out on this book for far too long.
The suspense in the book was way too drawn out since so many cultural and traditional aspects of the Indian reservation near Bismarck in North Dakota was worked into the plot.
However, the characters, stories and myths added such a richness to the tale, that the book would have been a lot poorer without it.
I enjoyed 'The bonding-of-the boys'I enjoyed the story-the mystery -THE TRIBE-the history-my education ----(a range of many feelings) I cried on page 246 (shhhhhhhh: about Joe's father's neckties) --Don't even ask me to explain why....lolI cried again when the book ended -- (I was INVESTED in this book --with pen & paper)I cried one more time when I read 'about-the-author' and other 'real-facts'.
I know our discussion will ADD to the flavor of reading this story.I felt 'loss' when this book ended ---(I just didn't want it to end) --- I wanted to hang out longer with Joe, Cappy, Moonshum --and the 'gang'....Many wonderful things to say about this book!!....I must go....[make some bannock]....ha ha haAnd, Find the lost children: "Papoose on the loose"!!!!
Maybe all that I learned about the Chippewa in North Dakota, and the injustices they and other Native groups face from our country's stupid fractured legal system, and life on the reservation--maybe that learning deserves 4 or 5 stars.However, I can only give this 3 stars, because of the passages in this novel that felt like I was being taught something.I only wanted to stay with the storyline, the main plot, and the main characters.About half way through, I began to sort of skim through the teaching passages, and other passages that did not seem germane to the storyline.Also, as the mother of four boys, (POSSIBLE SPOILER HERE)--I could not picture my 13-year-old boys acting in the ways that a couple of them did in this novel.
Joe’s father is a tribal judge, so he helps Joe understand legal ramifications.
It starts out as a mystery, with Joe and his friends attempting to figure out the perpetrator through a variety of means, but it is not what I’d call a typical mystery, as we rather quickly learn who committed the crime, and it turns into a question of whether justice will be served.
Themes include the impact of violent crime on families, the desire for justice in the face of legal loopholes, personal integrity, and retribution.
It has a strong sense of place and comes across as authentic.
It is a fictional story, based on the stark reality that 1 in 3 Native women on reservations will be raped in their lifetime (probably more, considering that sexual crimes are usually under-reported), 86% of the perpetrators are non-Native men who are rarely prosecuted or punished, and for these women, there is no clear path to justice (non-Natives cannot be prosecuted by tribal governments, which leads to predators preying with impunity).
Considering Congress' failure to allow the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (new amendments would allow tribes to prosecute non-Native people who commit violent crimes on tribal land) to come to a vote, it couldn't have come at a better time.
National Book Award?
An important Native American legal loophole was brought to light.---when a Native American woman is raped by a non-native man, legal jurisprudence is lacking.
For me, this could have been done more effectively with a tighter, more focused story.I cared about Joe, the 13 year old whose mother was raped.
In this story, it was sometimes hard to separate interior monologue from dialogue.
I've read 3 of her books and haven't loved any of them.
Wonderful novel, with an ending so stark and sharp and haunting. At times the narrative wanders in ways that frustrate but Erdrich's talent is undeniable and this novel reminds me of Possessing the Secret of Joy for what it does to create fiction that both tells a story and makes a political statement. This book is well worth the read.
The National Book Award Winner for Fiction (2012)My rating: 3.5 of 5 starsA copy of The Round House was provided to me by Harper Collins for review purposes.'The sun fell onto the kitchen floor in golden pools, but it was an ominous radiance, like the piercing light behind a western cloud.'In 1988, thirteen year old Joe is forever changed when he and his father come home to find his mother covered in blood.
Since the exact location is unknown her attacker can't be prosecuted if its unclear as to what laws would apply.The story was told from the point-of-view of Joe, a teenager, and one having a hard time coming to terms with the changes his life is currently undergoing.
Some others though - the joy of discovery, when a new piece of the puzzle makes itself apparent.
This is an author, and a story that I want to include in my grand picture.
It stroke me that reading her prose I have an impression of coming back to the roots - although those are not my roots - if that is an understandable statement?The author was asked in an interview, if she thinks twice before writing a piece that approaches magical realism, to which she answered, that she is not aware of her writing approaching it so she wouldn't know :-) and that's just it.
And the antics of the 4 teenage boys also had me laughing at times.The humor was needed as the subject matter was not funny at all.
The story starts with Joe’s mother having been brutally raped and almost set alight by an unknown assailant.
The story unfolds as Joe’s father (a Judge) tries to understand what can be done from a legal standpoint while at the same time Joe conducting his own unorthodox investigation on the sly.I really enjoyed insight into the Native American life on a reserve, the difference between US vs Tribal laws, the Native American traditions and folk tales.
Don't you Indians have your own hospital over there? It's 1988 and Joe and his father have brought his grievously injured mother to the hospital. He doesn't evade his interlocutor's gaze; his mother has taught him how to respond when such sentiments break out.There has been a crime. But because this is a reservation and because the location of the scene of the crime isn't clear, the perpetrator walks. His mother has been devastated. His idolized father, a tribal judge, is suddenly stripped of s
The United States is forty-seven years old and the entire country is based on grabbing Indian land as quickly as possible in as many ways as can be humanly devised.
Justice Marshall went out of his way to strip away all Indian title to all lands viewed--i.e., "discovered"--by Europeans.
Marshall vested absolute title to the land in the government and gave Indians nothing more than the right of occupancy, a right that could be taken away at any time.
He had suspended Mom's good knives carefully....These are the decisions that I and many other tribal judges try to make.
Ms. Erdrich describes the aftermath of this brutal rape with such sensitivity and yet she still manages to portray the very real devastation to Geraldine, Bazil and Joe. Another layer to this story which I found interesting was the legal and political aspects of life on a reservation.
In recent years in fact, the Congress of the United States was arguing about and holding up the passage of the Violence Against Women Act because of a provision pertaining to crimes committed on tribal lands by non-Native American perpetrators.
