https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2101872.The_Siege
ولم أكن أعرف حتى جنسيته.
وتجاربى مع هذه الجائزة مبشرة جدا.
فأخذت الكتاب لأجد ان المؤلف ألبانى ولم يسبق لى الاطلاع على أدب هذه المنطقه بالذات .
ليكون لى الحظ فى قراءة عمل من أعظم ما يكون على الاطلاقدائما العمل الروائى الممزوج بتاريخ مرحله معينه يكون امام احتمالين لا ثالث لهما: اما ان يكون العمل عظيم او يكون عمل سئ ولا وسط بينهما وهذا العمل عظيم بكل ما تحمله الكلمة من معنى.تحكى عن فترة الفتح العثمانى لألبانيا .
ترجمه جامده (ناشفه) لا حرارة فيها ولا أدرى اهى وجهة نظر المترجم ام النص الاصلى ؟تفاصيل كثيرة (جدا) لا ملل فيها .
هل هذه الرواية عن الصمود كما حاول البعض تفسيرها؟ هل هي تتحدث عن صمود الألبان أمام القوة العثمانية العظمى، وهو ما يفخرون به في تاريخهم، وخاصة وقت (إسكندر بك) الذي يحوم في هذه الرواية كشبح فوق رؤوس الأتراك، ولكن الألبان غير حاضرين في الرواية، إذن هل هي عن (حالة الحصار) التي تصيب المحاصِر، خوفه من الفشل، خوفه من الشتاء القادم الذي سيجعله يفك الحصار ويرحل، وحساباته التي تدخل فيها الخسائر والعوائد المتوقعة من الفتح، كل هذا يجعله أمام حسابات لا نهاية لها، بينما ليس لدى المحاصرين إلا خيار الصمود والصمود فقط.
لكن إسماعيل كاداريه وخلال الحملة العثمانية التي اختلقها على قلعة ما في القلب الألباني قد نجح أن ينقل لنا روح ذاك العصر بأسره، متجسدة في فلسفة الامبراطورية، فلسفة التوسع، فلسفة الحصار والإبادة وفلسفة المقاومة.
إنه قد نجح في أن يجعلنا نفهم جوهر هويته الألبانية المتنازعة بين استحقاقات ماضيها المسيحي البعيد، والعثماني الأقرب منه، ونجح في أن ينقل لنا كل مبررات اللبس والارتباك والتشتت التي تعتري تلك الهوية خلال فصول روايته.
إنه لم يستخدم ضمير المتكلم الألباني إلا نادراً.
لكنه ومن خلال وصف المعسكر الآخر..
تدور الرواية حول حصار القوات العثمانية لأحد القلاع الألبانية المتخيلة. و لئن أمعن الكاتب في وصف أطوار الحرب الدائرة فانه لم يهمل الجانب الانساني من... خلال عدة شخصيات من ذلك المؤرخ , الشاعر, الفلكي, الباشا, حريم الباشا و غيرهمعادة لا أستسيغ الروايات التاريخية التي تسرد وقائع الحروب لكن البناء القصصي هنا كان جيدا و كذلك الأمر بالنسبة الى تركيب الشخصيات و الترجمة التي استطاع من خلالها محمد درويش نقل هذا العمل الأدبي الى القارىء العربي كأحسن ما يكون...
There are spies on both sides; the reward for failure is imprisonment or death (even cannon that don’t fire straight are ‘fustigated,’ life is cheap, and God help any female Albanians taken prisoner – they don’t last even an evening in the hands of their sex hungry enemy obsessed with blond women’s pubic hair.In the end, the Ottomans retreat, and Albania is safe until the next invasion...and the next...
L’Albania del XV secolo, l’Arbëria al tempo dell’invasione ottomana e dell’eroica resistenza degli arbërorët guidati dal valoroso Skanderbeg, il “Comandante Alessandro” Giorgio Castriota. È l’epopea del popolo albanese, che sarà cantata e ricordata nei secoli anche quando il paese sarà islamizzato e ridotto a provincia ottomana. Ma è anche, in Kadare, la resistenza dell’Albania socialista prima all’Orso russo e poi all’Orsetto jugoslavo di Tito. L’epopea di Skanderbeg e dei suoi arbërorët resta e resterà, cantata, nei secoli. L’epopea del tirannello stalinista Enver Hoxha è già finita nel dimenticatoio. O nella pattumiera della Storia.

تسحرك دقة التفاصيل وجمالها في هذه الرواية، نصوص فاخرة واتقان المترجم في ترجمة نصوصها جعلتها رواية تاريخية ممتعة لاتمل منها، تنقلك أحداث الحصار بين ضباط الجيشين المتحاربين لتظهر لك بسالة المدافعين الألبان في صد الهجوم والدفاع عن أرضهم وبين شدة عزم الأتراك والرغبة في إحتلال القلعة المحاصرة.
Romani ndjek luftën tremujore te kampit osman në trojet shqiptare, në përpjekje për ta marrur në pushtim Kështjellën e lavdishme të Kadaresë.
Subjekti i romanit vë në pah qëndresën e paepur shqiptare, që edhe në trajtimet më të ashpra të luftës, nuk dorëzohen.
Me një kënaqësi të madhe, vendimi për t'i lënë këtij romani të pavdekshëm historik 5 yje, është diçka që po e bëj me një bindshmëri të plotë ( duke marrë parasysh sa nuk më ka qejfi t'i lexoj librat që i kemi për detyrë t'i raportojmë në shkollë).
Pra, edhe pas mundimeve të stërmëdha të shkaktuara, kështjellarët ngrihen si hije të pakapshme kundrejt një ushtrie, që paraqitej si ushtria e lavdishme dhe e përbindëshme e Lindjes së Afërt...
I came to feel like visiting Albania :)According to the Afterword by the translator, Ismail Kadare's one of the main themes in his novels is the intricate relationships between the obvious other (the influences of the Ottoman Empire) for the Albanians and who the Albanians are.
Since Albania was conquered by the Ottoman Empire, people there were affected by its culture, politics, and other social institutions.
This novel actually evoked imagination about how people establish, enjoy and suffer their respective lives.As the author clarifies, this novel is not about history.
Ismail Kadaré often used Albanian history and legends as the setting for his novels.
This one is about attempts to withstand a siege by Ottoman forces and shows the inhabitants of the beleaguered town.
It may be an allegory of modern times, but it is not clear exactly what it might be an allegory of.
Albania was a Maoist communist country caught between the powerful Soviet powers and their allies and the capitalist force of Europe and US global trade.
Who did Ismail Kadaré see as the aggressive invading power?It is very good as a historical novel, but perhaps too oblique to work as satire.
This may seem like a straight forward historical novel about a citadel in Albania under seige from the mighty Ottaman Empire, but it is so much more than that. Written originally in 1970 in Albania just after the Soviets had shattered the Prague uprising in Czechoslovakia, it is one of the best critics of hostile invasion and control you will ever read.Considering the original was Albanian and it was updated in french in the mid 90s a big congratulations to all the translators involved.
My favorite book by this author. He seems to be able to recreate the mentality and the perspective people may have had in those times. He makes me "feel" with them regardless of the fact that I am submerged in my zeitgeist, and in principle a bad neutral observer. This combined with a compelling writing style.
This is the historical backdrop of the novel The Siege by the Albanian author Ismail Kadare, a permanent candidate for the Novel Prize and Winner of the Man Booker International Prize.A huge force of the Ottoman army is advancing to this remote and not yet completely subdued province with the task to conquer one of the biggest fortresses that is still resisting the at that time most powerful army in the world.The Pasha that is leading the expedition force knows what is at stake for him: a failure to seize the fortress in summer would be considered as a complete failure of his by the Sultan.
A real treat, an Albanian authors account of a Turkish siege has it all. Good history, great writing, dread, historical detail wrapped into a subtle political scream of anger.
The tale is told in two perspectives, alternating with very brief comments from an unknown Albanian, perhaps a monk or priest writing a journal of the siege, and longer chapters told from the viewpoint of a few key Turkish players, including the Pasha, or commander-in-chief, the camp historian, and a doomed astrologer.It is the contrast between the ordinary Turk with the views of the war council that highlights the medieval-modern aspects of Kadare's tale.
There is even a war cry chosen and sent down from on high.Written with a light hand, The Siege manages to leaves the reader disturbed and not a little sad.
It tells the story of a fictional 15th-century siege of an Albanian castle by an Ottoman army.
The symbolism is stark, since history tells us that the Ottoman Empire does eventually conquer Albania, and the castle does fall.The translation is very good, as the camp comes alive on every page, and the battle scenes resound off the page.
Well worth reading if you have any interest in the Ottoman Empire, Albania, military history, or simply excellent world literature.
I read Kadare’s The Palace of Dreams in 2005, and thought it was an excellent book, but this is even better.
At face value, it’s the rivetting story of a C15th siege – the Christian Albanians in the besieged citadel and the Ottomans camped outside.
The chapters alternate between these two POV but the Ottomans tell most of the story in what appears to be a straightforward 3rd person narrative.
(Subtle as this is, Kadare did not escape the attention of the Albanian regime and he had to seek asylum in France in 1990).To read the rest of my review please visithttp://anzlitlovers.wordpress.com/200...
Story of the siege by the Ottoman army of the first castle they encounter on invading Albania – the story which describes the horrors of siege warfare in detail is written mainly from an Ottoman viewpoint with a variety of characters mainly non-directly military but seen from the view point of the confused official Chronicler.
There are interim shorter chapters written more as a chronicle by the defending Christians and which provide good summaries of what has actually happened.
Very well written and enjoyable even if some of the historical resonance on what is meant to be at one level a picture of the Hoxha’s siege like mentality is not really visible to a UK reader.
رواية محشوّة بالأفكار والأسئلة، لاهبة بحمم الحرب ودوّي الطبول والمدافع، مصاغة بنَفَس شاعريّ لافت، تنفذ عميقا في أوردة وشرايين الشخصيات المبتلاة بالمشاركة في حصار طويل، ممضّ، وقاسي: تلفتك شخصية مؤرخ الحملة، بكل حساسيته وقلقه وخجله وارتباكه ومثابرته وانشغاله الذهنيّ وتساؤلاته.
المهندس جياور (نموذج رجل العلم والتخصص) بوجهه الجامد، الخالي من التعابير، وبكلامه الذي تُبتر فيه الألفاظ "يصفّها صفا بلا أدنى مسافة أو فاصلة وينطقها بإيقاع موحّد لا يتبدّل، إن في حديثه الرتيب المرهق شيئا من الصحراء".
ضابط الإدارة (نموذج رجل الإحصاء والأرقام والحسابات الدقيقة) بنفوره من الضجيج، خيمته التي نُصبت بعيدا عن المركز لتكون في هدوء "نسبيّ".
الشاعر الذي يصاب بالعمى قبل أن ينظم قصيدته التي أرادها عظيمة ...
لم تتخللها لغة تنسيني وحشية تفاصيلها الموضوع الحرب والحصار وضياعقيمة الإنسانية .. ربما وكوني فتاة لم تصلني حروفها لليوم احتقر كل من يبجل الحروب وأن كانت بضرورة كمايزعمون !تذكرت كيف إني اقرأ بتحرر من العواطف تاركة التقييم للعقل والفائدةوهنا لم أستفد والذنب ليس ذنب الكاتب ولكنه ذنب الموضوع حيث تولى الأهمية للسرد التوثيقيوأنا كإنسانة أنتظر أحداث من بشر تذكرني بماهيتي ولو بلحظات بسيطة ...تقفز من بين حطام النفس هامسة أو صارخة ندم أو تقرف مما يحدث وليعود بعدها لسرده المتخمبالآلات والإنتصارات الحربية بأي شيء وعلى حساب كل شيء !
ملحمه تاريخيه تصف الحصار المروض علي قلعه البانيه بقوات الدوله العثمانيه، وقد ابدع الكاتب في وصف تلك الحرب وهذا الحصار وجعلنا نتعايش مع الجنود وصلابتهم وضعفهم الانساني ،مع القاده وصراعاتهم ،وبحرفيه جيده انتقل من السرد عن معسكر المهاجمين الي السرد عن معسكر المدافعين اللذين يحمون العرض والارض وبالتالي تعايشنا مع كلا الطرفين في معاناتهم واحلامهم وأمالهم.وبحبكه روائيه جيده ابرز الكاتب ان صاحب الحق سوف يحقق النصر في النهايه حتي ولو كان اقل قوه..تستحق عن جداره جائزه البوكر
To što je pročitana u dahu govori dovoljno. Baš volim Kadarea.
Si tratta, tuttavia, di un’epica molto particolare, e nella quale, spesso fa uso di modalità a mio parere inattese, considerato anche che si tratta di un romanzo di quasi quarant’anni fa.L’inattesoPrimo elemento inatteso: l’eroe, Scanderbeg, di fatto non compare mai.
Kadare riserva ai resistenti poche parole, tra un capitolo e l’altro, in cui spesso ci raccontano cose che gli ottomani hanno già detto.Forse il protagonista è la guerra, con le sue violenze e i suoi dolori.
Gli ottomani sperimentano contro Kruja il cannone più potente al mondo.«È la prima volta nella storia dell’umanità che vengono impiegati simili cannoni.
Among the Ottomans, the most memorable characters include the career-anxious pasha (if he conquers, he may even gain command of a future siege of Constantinople: if he fails, it will be the end of his career and possibly his life), the fearful chronicler looking for impressive, heroic phrases to describe the disappointing siege (possibly a self-caricature of Kadare, cast in such a role by Enver Hoxha); the cynical, pragmatic Quartermaster General (who knows that an army travels on its stomach); the self-important poet and the doctor hoping to spread disease; the clever janissary Tuz Okçan, and the harem women, especially the pasha’s favorite, Exher, and “Blondie”.
This novel by the Albanian author Ismail Kadare is set during the 15th century when Albania was being attacked by the Ottoman Turks, and the heroic Albanian leader Skanderbeg was still actively fighting the attackers.
The edition that I have read was originally written between 1969 and 1970 when albania was being ruled by the repressive dictator, and friend of Stalin, Enver Hoxha.
The story begins slowly but the pace quickens about half way through the book.At face value, this is a fictionalised version of many sieges that must have been perpertrated by the Turks against the Albanians.

Il est le héro nationale de l'Albanie, Skanderbeg a tenu tête à la plus grande machine de guerre de son époque: l'empire Ottoman. Il a pu mener ses troupes à resister contre l'envahisseur. Ce livre relate, de façon romancé, la première tentative Islamiste de saisir la citadelle de l'homme de guerre albanais. Une histoire captivante et qui donne le goût d'en savoir plus sur ce pays trop méconnu.
I ended up deeply immersed in the novel--a fictional story of a fifteenth century Ottoman siege of an Albanian fortress, told mostly from the perspectives of Turkish characters ranging from the commander-in-chief to women in the harem.
What soon emerges is that this is more than just a compelling story from the past, but a reflection on the present.
I first noticed this in the accounts of the dysfunctional war council where traditionalists vie with modern scientific experts.
The Siege is therefore not a simple transposition or blending of medieval and modern history, but a complex symbol of a divided and suffering nation besieged by itself."
