https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3797.Miss_Happiness_and_Miss_Flower

Even now I'm hard pressed to say who captivated me more, the adorable little dolls named in the title who speak (only to the reader of course!) throughout this children's-book-for-adults or lonely Nora suddenly finding herself a stranger in her aunt's home in cold England after growing up wild and warm in India.
As I was reading, I kept thinking of so many doll-y and dollhouse types who would recognize familiar territory in all the tiny perfections so painstakingly described by the author.A treat!
Very soon I'd like to read The Dolls' House by the same author.
In case you've missed my other comments about Rumer Godden's childrens' books, here are the basics.
Godden has a knack for incorporating local culture, awkward and unappreciated people, and interesting plot with a lovely prose style.
She is unafraid to have her characters behave naturally which means that a story's crisis points will often leave readers feeling very uncomfortable because they recognize the behavior so well and dread the consequences thereof.
However, what makes this story really spring alive is that we are allowed into Miss Happiness' and MIss Flower's thoughts and conversation.
I believe they would say, "Honorable Miss Godden!"
Nine-year-old Nona is living with her aunt, uncle and cousins, and she is a lonely, shy misfit in their lively family - until two little Japanese dolls arrive in the mail.
The dolls long for their own Japanese dollhouse, and only Nona has the heart and intuition to make their dream a reality.Yeah, I was that girl.
(Except not as cool as Nona) My own homemade dollhouse (made of orange crates, with hand-towel carpeting and gift-wrap wallpaper) was the best toy I ever owned.
Nobody gets the internal life of dolls quite as intensely as Rumer Godden, bless her.
Nona came from India to live with her aunt and uncle and cousins.
Belinda and Nona's great aunt in America sends them a package for Christmas with two Japanese dolls inside it.
Belinda doesn't care about the dolls, but Nona thinks they should live in a Japanese dollhouse and not Belinda's English, messy one.
Her cousin Tom, in vivid detail and with diagrams in case you might want to construct your own (you can!), helps her build a Japanese dollhouse for Miss Happiness and Miss Flower.
Miss Happiness and Miss Flower has a sequel, Little Plum.
Miss Happiness and Miss Flower is a stirring tale by Rumer Godden.
It is the story of Nona Fell and her new family receiving two Japanese dolls from her Aunt Lucy Dickinson.
This story is very touching and sweet, and is a simple and classic tale for young students to enjoy.
The story can be quite dramatic, but after a while, it transforms into a heart-warming classic tale.
Rumer Godden is a talented author who moves all readers, and makes them feel part of the story.
Reading this book not only gives you a taste of Japanese culture, but also warms the heart.
Aside from a few minor descriptions of Japanese culture that are a little dated by today's standards, this book is a spectacular classic about a lonely girl forced to leave India and live in England, whose best friends are two little dolls who might just have something magical about them. The book's illustrations were so wonderful, too! :D
Sweet little book. Quiet, not much happens. A little girl who feels all alone in a new place is captivated by two little Japanese dolls. For some reason I was not very comfortable with the way the author broke the fourth wall. I felt talked down to. This doesn't always bother me, but it did in this book. Was it just my mood?
A little dated but a great read aloud book. I liked how the children relied on each other and themselves and not the parents to do things for the dolls. I thought it was a great story of how the dolls helped Nona make friends and adjust to her new family. I also liked how Belinda, who was initially jealous, changed over the course of the book.
One of my very favorite all time childrens books. I think I read it a million times. I forgot the title for many years, and tried to find it again and again telling people the gist of the story... 'its about two dolls from japan that get their very own house...' and suffered many blank stares until I finally found it again in the late 90s by accident. It is (to me) such a sweet book.
For another reading challenge:For books from the year that you were born - Rumer Godden's Miss Happiness and Miss Flower.
Godden's lovely sweet story is how Nona and her family create a home for two lovely, Japanese china dolls, Miss Happiness and Miss Flower.
Great insights into Japanese culture.
Trivia: Demi Moore named her daughter Rumer for this author and her other daughter, Scout for the character in To Kill a Mockingbird.
The story of Babar also came out that year.
I want to read a couple more titles from this year.
Miss Happiness and Miss Flower are two little Japanese dolls that are sent to Nona Fell, a little girl from India, now living in England with some cousins.
Belinda wishes that Nona would go back to India, but most of all she longs for Little Peach, a doll that was mentioned in the letter that came with Miss Happiness and Miss Flower, but was never sent.
The doll house is built with success and in the end, Belinda receives Little Peach, whom Nona sent for for Belinda.
Miss Happiness and Miss Flower are Japanese dolls that are given to two little girls living in England.
Nona, a lonely little girl who just moved to England from India loves the dolls and wants to build them a proper Japanese dollhouse.
The other little girl is Nona’s cousin, whom she now lives with.
Though as the dollhouse gets built, with some help from her cousins, Nona learns about friendship both within and outside of her family.This is a delightful book that will engage readers today as it did over 40 years ago when it was first published.
Now would be the perfect time for 'Miss Happiness and Miss Flower', I thought, Rumer Godden's children's book published in 1961; one of the most magical books there is on the subject of dolls and their houses.The plot: a girl from India comes to a strange land to live with her aunt and cousins.
But just then, she is given a set of Japanese dolls, to share with her spoilt cousin Belinda.
The entire family, with the exception of Belinda, join together to help make a Japanese doll's house for the dolls, Miss Happiness and Miss Flower....
(Her mother passed away.) Her father has sent her to England to live with relatives.
She stays with an aunt, uncle, and three cousins.
Despite the relatives mostly warm welcome, Nona is homesick and lonely.
Nona feels the dolls must be lonely.
As she researches and builds them a Japanese style home (with the help of her cousin), she also develops her place of belonging and sense of home.There is also a nice back to school lesson where Nona feels that the girl that sits next to her is stuck up.
Her aunt suggests that the girl may be shy.
Belinda annoys the ever-living daylights out of me, but the story was so full of hope and goodness that by the end she can't help but catch it.
I don't really think, though, that all of her emotional issues stemmed from jealousy of Nona and the dolls; most of it just seems like Belinda is a real piece of work, made even more volatile by Nona's arrival.What I appreciated was that Miss Happiness and Miss Flower didn't become objectified Japanese signifiers; Nona says several times that the Japanese must be very brave people, and treats their way of life like an artform and not a quaint cutesy fantasy.
Everyone who helps does so with research and respect.
In the end, the dollhouse brings them together, and even teaches Belinda how not to be a little rotter.
When two Japanese dolls, Miss Happiness and Miss Flower, arrive in England, lonely Nona musters her wits to create a suitable home for them. As in The Kitchen Madonna, Godden draws us into Nona's research, so that we learn about the traditional Japanese lifestyle and get excited as Nona's work starts to pay off. Godden always adds a twist, though, and this one comes in the form a jealous cousin. Found this lovely copy at the Strand on the 4th of July.
This is Rumer Godden at her best. The story is like beautiful music--cute, lyrical, and deeply moving. If you like Britain, or Japan, you'll like it. But if you love books about real people and real kids and real emotions, you'll love it. Plus, it's got a lot of interesting detail about building a Japanese doll house.
For such a short book, there is a surprising amount of atmosphere and characterization. I found myself getting very personally invested in this story, like NOOO BELINDA DON'T BREAK THE HOUSE!!! (Spoiler: the house is okay)Also I felt this horrible sinking feeling when Nona wished she could be a boy. :-( Girls can be leaders too, Nona!
A really cute children's story about a young girl forced to move from her father's tea plantation in India to cold, cheerless England. It reminded me slightly of the intro for The Secret Garden, but the characters are different. It's about her quest to get a home for the two Japanese dolls that have just arrived from San Francisco. A fun read for kids.
This book is like baby's first orientalist novel.
What a cute little book, filled with vivid descriptions of the two beautiful dolls, Miss.
The story focuses on Nona, who has just moved to England from India, and is living with her aunt's family.
I absolutely adored the enthusiasm that Nona displayed when researching and developing the home for her dolls.
In the end, everything worked-out as it was meant to, and I was pleased to see how Nona made Miss.
Flower feel connected to the family through her hard work.
Will definitely be reading the sequel to this book, which is about Little Plum!
She is unhappy and shy and not fitting in, until a great-aunt sends her two little Japanese dolls for Christmas.
Miss Happiness and Miss Flower are also aliens in this very English world.Young Nona sets out to make them more comfortable by making a Japanese doll's house for them.
A quick google also revealed a whole world of people who have made their very own Japanese doll's house inspired by this charming book.Miss Happiness and Miss Flower was published in 1961 and has a few cultural clangers relevant to it's time, but the universal themes of belonging, tolerance and friendship make it all worth while.Full review here - http://bronasbooks.blogspot.com.au/20...
This is one of the most delightful-yet-deep books I've ever read.
Cross-cultural issues and transitions, grief, friendship, familial love and tension, the beauty of creating and crafting, healing coming in unexpected ways.
From what I've read about the author's own life and childhood, I would say this is semi-autobiographical.
About the dolls traveling from the US to the UK, the author wrote, "I do not think they had been asked if they wanted to come--dolls are not asked."Then on the next page, she wrote, "Children are not asked either." And thus begins Nona's life in the UK after spending most of her formative years in India.
This was a book I loved as a child. As an adult I think it is charming. I didn't remember a lot about the book but looking back I can see that it had a big impact on me. This book led me to learn more about Japanese culture, explore the Japanese exhibits at the Philadelphia Art Museum and even get a Japanese pen pal. My enthusiasm also rubbed off on my sister who even wanted some of her ashes taken to Japan after she passed. Now to find the sequel.
Still a favorite. I expect Becky chose this for the strong girl central characters as well as for the remembrance of Japan. If you're uncomfortable with certain aspects, keep in mind when this was written and what time period it was written about. Don't try to smother it in today's perspectives and judgements.
A little girl from India and two dolls from Japan try to feel at home with a British family. The family's son makes a real Japanese-style doll house, and the plans are in the back of the book in this edition. Good for a building unit.
A sweet story that I remembered reading as a child - maybe 8 years old. The writing is not as brilliant as some of Miss Godden's other pieces but the characters are painted in such a way that the story stayed with me for nearly 45 years.
Very, very cute story. If you like Edward Tulane, you may enjoy this one too. It's definitely children's book, but very enjoyable all the same. It's a cute story with a sweet little message. <3
Utterly charming ... a happy rediscovery from my childhood.
