https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/335140.Death_of_a_Naturalist
Then I picked up from the library this first edition paperback of Seamus Heaney's first collection of poems, which included in its title (Kismet!) "Naturalist." HDT would have been proud.
Digging.The cold smell of potato mould, the squelch and slapOf soggy peat, the curt cuts of an edgeThrough living roots awaken in my head.But I’ve no spade to follow men like them.Between my finger and my thumbThe squat pen rests.I’ll dig with it.And dig he did.
Like the peepers on cue.Now that would put the im- in this most imperfect of beautiful days....
I stayed at home to work and as the iPhone photos came in from Dublin, Galway, Coole, Adare and Dingle, I connected with my beloved family by reading the great Irish naturalist, Seamus Heaney.
But what a magnificent literary legacy he leaves behind and one could see his prolific poetic gifts in this work, his first published collection which paints such a humble and humbling portrait of life among the farms and villages of rural Ireland.
Some of this work is hard to read in a wince causing way because Heaney wants to show the reality of his existence as a naturalist with such gripping candor.
Heaney gives us a compelling portrait of a hard life in Ireland in his day.
This review has been moved to Samir's Critical Corner here.
“Between my finger and my thumbThe squat pen rests.I’ll dig with it.”  - From "Digging"I was already living in Ireland for a couple of years when Seamus Heaney died, and I was surprised to see how hard his death hit the country. I had never read an Irish author even though I lived there, and was surprised that reactions to his death came from even my classmates - I had not seen such heartbreak for a national author when our own Portuguese Nobel passed away. It came as a surprise that the man an
- From "Digging"I was already living in Ireland for a couple of years when Seamus Heaney died, and I was surprised to see how hard his death hit the country.
It came as a surprise that the man and his work were such an intrinsic part of Irish culture, but now I can fully understand why Ireland grieved some years ago.Seamus Heaney's Death of a Naturalist is a collection of poems focusing on nature and on the typical Irish rural culture, seen as the nostalgic lenses of a man looking back at his childhood.
Death of a Naturalist, by Seamus Heaney A stunning first collection, which set the tone for the stellar career that followed. I was nine years old when I first became aware of Seamus Heaney, and maybe even the potential of what poetry could be. There was a teacher called Mr. Deegan, and I remember with incredible clarity the day he sat on the edge of a table at the front of the classroom, folded open a ragged-looking paperback and began to read, slowly and aloud, the poem, 'Mid-Term Break.' Eve
There was a teacher called Mr. Deegan, and I remember with incredible clarity the day he sat on the edge of a table at the front of the classroom, folded open a ragged-looking paperback and began to read, slowly and aloud, the poem, 'Mid-Term Break.' Everything about it has stayed with me, the greyness of the late morning, the rain beating at the windows, and his voice painting scenes, giving us a sense of something, a life lived that was not our own.
Five or six years passed before I came across the collection, as a book in the library probably just as ragged as the one I'd seen the teacher with.
Living in Dublin, i have actually seen Seamus Heaney in person.
About 5 years ago i was on a train that was about to pull out of Connolly Station.
just wow.from  twice shy "A vacuum of need / Collapsed each hunting heart / But tremously we held as hawk and prey apart, Preserved classic decorum, Deployed our talk with art"^ I've been on dates like this.
My bad.from  the docker "The only Roman collar he tolerates / Smiles all round his sleek pint of porter"^ now thats how you describe a drunken religious bigot people.
Coming back to this volume of poems after many years, it was an absolute joy & I found myself upping my rating of it to 5 stars.
The delightful quality of the poems in themselves, which breathe & encapsulate the world that Heaney inhabits & present it to the reader in the most vivid of images deserve regular re-readings in order to soak in them.Their attraction was probably heightened by reading them during a 5 hour coach journey (I loath the enclosure, discomfort & stuffiness of coach travel!).
They provided the perfect antidote to that atmosphere, opening out a world of air, water, colour, space & life.
Thank God for such poetry.
Prior to picking this up if read maybe 5 or 6 poems by Heaney, the well known ones like Midterm Break and Digging which are unofficially required learning for all Irish children. However, this collection allowed me to explore more of Heaney's works which are mostly heavily autobiographical and deal with life in rural Ireland. It's not hard to see why Heaney was a Nobel Laurette for literature, even in his very first published poetry collection his mastery was clear.
Even when the poems move on to later periods of Heaney’s life when he was living in towns, such as his relationships with women, they continue to use this farm imagery: “Love, I shall perfect for you the child / Who diligently potters in my brain / Digging with heavy spade till sods were piled / Or puddling through muck in a deep drain.”It is not only Heaney’s rural upbringing that we find here, but the Irish experience back through time.
Unlike many of his peers in 20th century English poetry, Heaney continued to work with traditional metres and rhyme schemes like ABAB.
I have found a new favorite.
Walcott packs his poems with rich metaphors and similes, creating startlingly vivid images through unexpected combinations of adjectives and verbs.
Both gaze at the world around them, but Walcott's regard is forever being reflected back upon himself while Heaney is more often focussed on capturing a sense of place and the seasons of life for itself although autobiographical elements are frequently the hook for his poems here.
Of course, Heaney's own style would soon become more daring and far-ranging, but these poems, shot through with sun, hail, soil, field and fallow, rock, sea and tide are brilliant and evocative.

I really need to buy a copy of this to take to America- it's my favourite poetry collection and it's the landscape of my mind 😊
So I googled "slant rhyme" and came across a poetry site that used the poem "Digging," which opens this collection, as an example.
There was an audio track of Heaney reading the poem and I was so taken with it that I went the next day to the university library and checked out the book, as well as another of Heaney's poetry collections and his translation of Beowulf.
I usually find line breaks and changing rhyme schemes to be a hindrance to my reading, but here, it very much seems worth the effort.And maybe I'm loving this collection so much because now, living in Iceland, certain landscape imagery and descriptions really resonate with me.
Maybe my mother had nothing to do with me." Heaney: "The burn drowns steadily in its own downpour,A helter-skelter of muslin and glassThat skids to a halt, crashing up suds.Simultaneous accelerationAnd sudden braking; water goes overLike villains dropped screaming to justice.It appears an athletic glacierHas reared into reverse: is swallowed upAnd regurgitated through this long throat.My eye rides over and downwards, falls withHurtling tons that slabber and spill,Falls, yet records the tumult thus standing still."Me: "YES." [Five stars for lyrical prowess and making me think I could read "Digging" daily.]
The moment I read Seamus Heaney’s rendition of Beowulf, I suspected I would like his poems.
I always thought there was an ethnological divide between Eastern and Western Europe because of their rural and urban cultural points of view, but Heaney’s poems captured so well the earthy, grimy aspects of ruralism that I found myself for the first time recognizing the Eastern spirit in a Western work.
Seamus Heaney’s voice is remarkable through its clarity, depth and the ease with which it engages the reader.
Some writers just capture your heart and keep it.
In memory and honor of Seamus Heaney, this evening Oleg and I alternated reading aloud from "Death of a Naturalist." Some favorite poems include "Digging," "Death of a Naturalist," "Blackberry-Picking," "Mid-Term Break," "The Diviner," "Scaffolding," and "Personal Helicon." Seamus Heaney read many of these poems at a reading that I attended at St. Oswald's Church in Grasmere, England in the summer of 2010.
Seamus Heaney is one of my favorite poets, although it's been too long since I last read him. The first lines in "Digging," the first poem in this collection, still ring loud and clear for me: "Between my finger and my thumb/The squat pen rests;/as snug as a gun."What I like best about Heaney's poetry is the sensual earthiness of it. You can hear the slop of mud and feel the earth yield beneath your spade. This has always seemed magical to me.
A really wonderful collection of poems. Heaney takes ordinary sights and activities growing up in rural Ireland and makes them into something beautiful. Personal favourites include Mid-term Break, Waterfall, Twice Shy, Poem for Marie and The Play Way but the whole book is rich and deserves to be read from cover to cover
If that is true, it makes you wonder what Heaney thought about fate and free will.'Death of a Naturalist' Somehow when I first read this, I liked the description - the feel of the dirty frogspawn from, but I somehow missed the whole point.
Taking this and the last poem together and reading them in relation to both the military theme that is constant throughout the book - and the theme of the death of a naturalist can bring some interesting interpretations.'Saint Francis and the Birds' Heaney compares the priest to the poet.
,
One of the best poetry collections I have ever read, period.One of the best books I have read so far in the year, double period.
This is my first look at Heaney's poetry (I liked him already for his translation of Beowulf).
I might be reading too literally, but most of the poems in this collection seemed clearly about real events and objects.
A trout, a waterfall, poor women in a church, a docker, blackberry picking - things and people and events.
Sometimes almost purely descriptive, without any attempt at deeper meaning, other than the things being themselves.
I am likely all wrong, but this is the way I read it.
And Heaney is stunningly clear in his language.
Heaney sobre la temprana vocación poética:De niño, no me podían alejar de los pozosni de las viejas bombas, con sus baldes y poleas.Me encantaba el oscuro vacío, el cielo atrapado,el olor a algas, a hongos y a húmedo musgo.Había uno en un ladrillar, con una tapa de madera podrida.Yo saboreaba el sorprendente estrépito cuando un cubocaía a plomo en el extremo de la cuerda.Tan profundo que no se veían reflejos.Otro, poco profundo, bajo una zanja de piedra secafructificaba como cualquier acuario.Al arrancar largas raíces del blando vegetaluna cara blanca flotaba sobre el fondo.Otros tenían eco y devolvían tus llamadascon nueva y limpia música.
Gary Lightbody (whom I love almost as much as I love the Doctor) wrote a song called Reading Heaney To Me."Just use your voiceand Heaney's wordsDig your way through to my heartplant your flag and set up camp""Just you and me and naturalistsheld with tender hands and mouth"It made me curious enough to look this book up. Gary Lightbody is a GOD to me, so I think this warrants a reading!
This is Heaney's first collection, long before he earned his monumental reputation. These poems are fantastic. Self-assured and sensitive, they display Heaney's facility with language and exquisite taste in word choice (except for the record number of times he says "bog" or "sod"!!!) these poems, though rising from the...bogs...of his Irish childhood, cover a variety of relatable topics, like the death of his brother, his father's haunting influence as he ages. A pro at his beginning.
This was a fantastic and deeply vibrant collection of poems, intriguing and unique and certainly worth reading over and over again.
Like eating mudpies and bathing in dirt, stones for molars and fog for breath. Also: sod and bog, bog and sod.[4 stars for peat and whiskey.]
Included in this collection are some intimate poems referring to Heaney’s marriage, in a very personal tone which is nevertheless somewhat conventional and light; Ted Hughes was far more passionate, reflected in his work on the poetry of Sylvia Plath while she lived and after as well as in his own personal poetry, especially in his Birthday Letters, though he published such private material reluctantly and late.
It is arguably an odd thing to base a review on such a comparison, especially as I seem to be comparing the entire collected work of Ted Hughes with Heaney’s very first publication.
Heaney's 'Death of a Naturalist' is a love letter to the natural world, a celebration of the Irish countryside both as a source of poetic inspiration, and as a landscape against which life is lived and the varieties of human experience played out.
Indeed, the collection is as much about young love, music, childhood and tradition as it is about hawks, kites and trout.
'Death of a Naturalist' does what all good poetry does: it makes the familiar strange, distilling sentiments that we so easily recognise in ourselves into a set of dazzling metaphors and images.
