https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174403.Back_Roads
Back roads meet backwards.
This is a story of a disturbingly dysfunctional family.
Hormones running amok, sanity on the edge, an obsession with an older woman, mix in an abusive upbringing and this is formula for self destruction.The transformation from child to man happens with the delayering of lies that reveal truths: ugly ones.
He is in a constant tormented struggle with what he knows is right with what has happened in the past.
A coming of age story where good trumps over evil at the cost of self sacrifice.
and i am not saying that he needs to be an idiot, but the reality of his situation is that he works two jobs, goes to the shrink in his spare time, and is raising three younger siblings in the wake of his family's tragedy.
the author is from the region, and she does a really good job of building the scenery, but the people sometimes seem either like caricatures (slutty, looking-for-love-and-comfort amber) or just too flowery in speech.but i was never bored, and even though i could tell where it was going, it was still a good read.
If you decide to read this book, brace yourself, seriously, the Altmyer's are fucked up.
But for some reason, you still like them.There's so much that happens in this story that keeps you reading I can't say much without giving it away.
It's fascinating and beautiful at the same time.Like I said earlier, there are so many surprises that pop up throughout the book to rehash the plot and what I liked about the story and didn't like would give too much away and probably keep you from reading the story.
It's these surprises that really keep the story moving and keep you reading.
Not terribly surprising, the cops muse, given his roots; Harley's mother was convicted of killing his father a couple years previous, and is now sitting in prison in Indiana, PA (I point this out because for the first hundred fifty pages I wondered how they could drive from Pennsylvania to Indiana in two hours-- and I spent over half my life living less than an hour from Indiana, PA.
This is my take on Oprah books: really bad things happen to people who are already suffering from other bad things and the end is never a happy one.
In fact, they're often icky endings.Woody loaned me Back Roads and I read through it in one sick day last week.
There's abuse, murder, incest, adultery, mental illness...yep, a perfect Oprah book.I have to admit I was thoroughly engrossed while reading this.
I sympathized with Harley and it was painful to see what was happening to him and around him.
The book is not about how he's surviving in life though, but about love as well, as a key point to the book is that he lusts for a mother of two down the road of his home.
At first to me it seems like the book has no point, it's just talking about some crappy life of a kid who's suffering because he's at lost of parents and that he has to live on his own while taking care of his 3 sisters, yet there is more to it that meets the eyes.
I don't usually comment on my books, or give a review, but this book was great. Finished it in 2 days because I could not put it down. It's been a while since I was that into what I was reading. It's rough, raw, compelling, heartbreaking and you can't help connecting with the characters. This story will stay with me for some time.
The characters so real that I feel for them every time I read it.
---------In my hands right now, this book feels as vague and familiar as home; comfortable - oh how I love 2006.
Tawni O'Dell is a remarkably talented woman in the same vein as Janet Fitch, she is not only a favorite author of mine, but also one of the best people in the known world.I wish could give Back Roads a thousand stars, but already a thousand suns have gone into making this one.Let this devastate you.
Let it.
I hadn't read a good book like that in a long time!
I actually felt guilty that I only paid $5 for a hard cover version of such an amazing book!
I loved it so much that I wrote to Tawni and asked her if she would sign it for me if I sent it to her with return postage paid.
I asked her if I could meet her someplace so she could sign the books (I bought two more copies, one for my best friend and another for my daughter's teacher).
Therefore, do not start reading it on your lunch break at work!
not that the therapy was costing anything except time, but it didn't add up other than as a plot device to explain that he was nuts (in case it escaped the reader's attention).
There were complex issues between Amber, Misty and their mother that Harley would never understand, and that complexity deserved to be explored.
That leaves a bad taste in my mouth as a reader, and explains in many ways why the author hasn't been able to follow up her initial success with another (that, and the lack of Oprah's marketing support).
Unless someone gives me a compelling reason, I won't read this author again.
Back Roads was an alright novel but there was something a little creepy about it. A teenage boy in love with an adult woman? And he says he could "violate her a hundred different ways"? ...Disturbing. Aside from that, the story of a kid struggling to keep his siblings from falling into the foster care system was very interesting.
Engrossing, painful and raw.
After reading so many women comment about men writing in women's voices, it's now time to admit that women writing as men can completely miss the boat. Harley didn't sound like any guy I knew, nor grew up nor WAS in my life. His sentiments rang completely hollow for me; rather he sounded more like how a woman would like a teenage boy to be. The most interesting character, Misty, went almost completely voiceless and the ending was laughable, as was most of the book. easily the worst of Oprah's Book Club.
It contains some very mature topics so if you're not comfortable reading those then this book really isn't for you!So I decided to pick this book up purely because Jennifer Morrison is going to be playing Callie in the film adaptation and she's been talking about it for a while.
I can't wait to see how the film adaptation turns out and how Jen portrays Callie on screen.
This book honestly made me so shocked, angry, sad and confused (In a good way)!
I'm still not over the ending honestly I had to drop my book and silently scream into my hands!!
I couldn't put this book down, which is crazy because it is so disturbing. Harley is border line crazy due to his upbringing, but I found myself feeling for him. I highly recommend this book, be warned, it is very dark and disturbing at parts.
First thoughts:1. I can’t believe I picked up an Oprah recommended book.2. Dysfunction3. Incest? Didn’t see that coming.4. Thanks to my good friend, Teryl, for bringing it to my attention.This is a very fast paced story, and I was able to tear through it in a few hours. I felt for Harley, and all of his sisters. I can’t imagine being 17, mom killing pop, and being left to care for your three younger sisters.I’m tired, and I suppose this not really a ‘review’ per se—just my feelings.I didn’t unde
Thanks to my good friend, Teryl, for bringing it to my attention.This is a very fast paced story, and I was able to tear through it in a few hours.
I can’t imagine being 17, mom killing pop, and being left to care for your three younger sisters.I’m tired, and I suppose this not really a ‘review’ per se—just my feelings.I didn’t understand Callie’s attraction to Harley.
Hmm… well all I can assume is that that she felt sorry for him and wanted to make him feel good.
I don’t think we are meant too, after all not all stories have happy endings.
I'm having a hard time rating this book. It's incredibly dark and morose, but the author does an excellent job taking us into the head of a 19-year-old small town boy who has been dealt an extremely tough hand--taking care of three sisters after his mother has murdered his father. I really felt for Harley, whose family life was so compromised that his attempts to rise above it were doomed from the start. Nevertheless, I had hopes that Harley could somehow survive, perhaps get away and start a new life for himself. His story is heartbreaking and tragic.
Wow and Disturbing. I wish I would've read it with Oprah as that had to have been a good discussion. The middle! I was close but not quite. The ending! I had an inkling, but the wrong culprit.
Harley is a 19 year old boy, who has to take care of his three younger sisters,Amber,Misty and Jody, after their mother has been sent to jail for killing their abusive father.
The moral of the story in this is that parents (especially mothers) need to protect their children,O'Dell even points out that this basic rule is apparent in the animal kingdom and should be respected and followed.
Apparently I may need to wear them more.
Earlier in the book his little sister was talking about Callie making them smores and Harley almost seemed jealous.
Not just for his sisters but for him as well.This book is very well written and has many lines that are psychologically profound with regards to the characters."...I wanted her to tell me it was true.
I think a young man who has lead the kind of life Harley has lead is going to have a very astute ability to self analyze.Bottom line...I liked the book because of all the psychological nuances that were there to be explored.
I have had this book on my to read shelf for a long time.
I was going to read this book before the end of the year.
I think the fact that it was an Oprah book club selection had me a bit turned off.
I have not had good luck with the relatively recent Oprah picks.
Yes, one could argue that some of the minor characters were not fully drawn and there were some gaping holes in timeline and motivations BUT I'm prepared to overlook them because otherwise this was just good!
Really good!
I cannot wait to read my way through the author's other books.
While it is a story that moved easily along, integrating me into the lives of the characters, I felt repulsed by the description of certain events in the book.
And in those moments, I could no longer believe in the characters or the events in their lives.
As it is, the other characters psychological issues aren't fully explored to create the needed suspension at the end of the story.
Too many characters with too many flaws stemming from the events of their lives, until I could no longer believe in the integrity of the characters or the story.
This was Tawni O'Dell's first published novel (I think) and it commanded praise from Oprah Winfrey as a Oprah Book Club selection, various accolades, etc.This was my LEAST favorite of O'Dell's novels. I thought it was depressing as hell. If this is the first O'Dell book you pick up and think, "Uugh, this sucks!" then try one of her other books. "One of Us", which was released in 2014, is excellent. "Fragile Beasts" and "Coal Run" are also terrific options.Bottom line, don't take THIS book as typical of Tawni O'Dell's writing and storylines. She's written and published MUCH better.
dark.
darkdarkdarkdarkdark.
it's the kind of book that...when you read it...you can hear the dripdrop of a lonely limestained faucet in the background.
you won't love the protagonist...but you can't hate him, either.
i can't explain exactly why I am giving this book 4 stars...other than to say that it was good enough to make me remember the protagonist...make me think about him after I turned the last page.
I can't ask for much more...why isn't it a 5 star'er?
well, I'm just an amateur.
regardless...please, don't read this book if you aren't willing to lose a little faith in humanity.
Dark and brutal. Goes to and lingers in places most writers/books refuse to. Incredible feat for a woman to write in first-person as a 20-year-old man/boy with a violent streak he can only barely control. I'm close to speechless.
A dark dark book that I couldn't put down. I have a thing for stories that take place in poor mining towns.
I liked the character of Harley, even if he was kind of an ass most of the time, and kinda crazy the rest of the time.
At times he reminded me of my guy's 21 year old loser son, not wanting to do anything but drink beer, not understanding that the world doesn't revolve around him.
When Amber finds out Harley's having an affair with the mom of one of the 6 year-old's friends, she screams and cries about it for days like she caught her boyfriend cheating on her, mascara running down her face and all that stuff.
While her husband and kids are right freakin' there, right in the house, like 30ft away!

Tawni O'Dell has a fine writing style, great sense of plot development and character construction, for the most part.
Without giving away plot details that will erode the suspense which is essential for enjoyment of this novel, Callie Mercer's behavior is not that of a mature woman with a frustrated marriage and a developing affair with a younger man.
It seemed as if O'Dell had been writing with one outcome in mind, lost the thread of her story and changed the ending.
One of the most amazing aspects of O'Dell's writing is that she leads you to draw one conclusion about a character, and then slowly feeds you evidence that you've misjudged.
I think that's what I enjoyed most about this story, the slow reveal leading to the ultimate conclusion.
Awesome writing!I'm done with the book but can't stop thinking about it, or the author.
As a writer who grew up in a gritty place, I've wondered how to write about the amazing stories I accumulated there.
I respected the way the author was able to show Harley, the main character, falling apart under the strain.
