https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18055.Eggs_Beans_And_Crumpets

The reason it is falling apart is simple, it has been read a few times.
It is among my favorite Wodehouse short story collections that doesn't feature Jeeves and Wooster.I begins with four stories about a well known Wodehouse character, Bingo Little.
I really like these stories, I think they may be among the best Wodehouse wrote.
The last three stories feature Urkridge which is a character which has never been one of my favorite in the Wodehouse world, but still these stories are fairly good.All in all, I would say this was a good introduction into Wodehouse.

It is necessary to get my dose of P.G. Wodehouse every now and then! 😁
Nine short stories involving Bingo Little, Oofy Prosser, Freddie Fitch-Fitch, and Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge. Amusing as usual.Side note: From the Inspector Lynley TV series I learned that Featherstonehaugh is pronounced Fanshaw. I don't see how but that's how it is pronounced.
Don't get me wrong; I love PG Wodehouse. However, in short story form and without Jeeves, it develops a feeling of sameness that makes it hard to keep plowing through. I chuckled a decent bit, so I'm happy.
Phenomenal
A collection of his short stories, always fun. There are a few Ukridge stories here, which I think is my least favorite Wodehouse character, but still worth the read.
It’s Buttercup Day. In aid of something or other, I suppose.”“It’s in aid of me,” said Ukridge, the soft smile developing into a face-splitting grin.“What do you mean?”“Corky, old horse, said Ukridge, motioning me to a chair, “the great thing in this world is to have a good, level business head.
The cats will eat the rats, the rats will eat the cats–” (hide spoiler)]On Australians: (view spoiler)[ I don’t know if you have any pet day-dream, Corky, but mine had always been the sudden appearance of the rich uncle from Australia you read so much about in novels.
The first several stories are all about Bingo Little and a little too similar to go well all together in a batch like that.
And a few Ukridge stories to round things out.
A couple of my favorite lines are from the Bingo stories: “He will have it in sackfuls some day, of course, but until he realizes on his Uncle Wilberforce—who is eighty-six and may quite easily go to par—the wolf, so far as he is concerned, will always be in or about the vestibule.”[Bingo regarding his newborn son:] “The only thing that prevented a father’s love from faltering was the fact that there was in his possession a photograph of himself at the same early age, in which he, too, looked like a homicidal fried egg.”
Wodehouse rarely disappoints and this volume is no exception to that rule.
In this collection of nine stories are episodes from the lives of lesser known Wodehouse characters including Bingo Little, Mr. Mulliner and Ukridge (Plum's longest running character).
While the stories vary in their degree of hilarity, there's not one rotten one in the bunch and all are thoroughly enjoyable; two of them ("Sonny Boy" and "Romance at Droitgate Spa") were for me some of the funniest stuff I've ever read, causing me to laugh out loud long and hard.
If you are unfamiliar with some of the lesser known (though well-trodden) characters in the Wodehouse lexicon, this is definitely a good introduction to them.
This isn’t everyone’s idea of humor, and I usually can’t read P.
G. Wodehouse straight through, but this collection of loosely related stories is easy to dip into.
Wodehouse makes hilarious sport of the idle rich in England during the first half of the 20th c.
The title comes from the ridiculous nicknames they ascribe to each other.
If you want to try out a bit of Wodehouse, I would recommend starting with the Jeeves and Wooster stories or the BBC series of the same name, starring the hilarious Hugh Laurie and Stephen Frye and available on YouTube.
read by Jonathan Cecil. Hoopla has this marked as part of the Jeeves and Wooster series, but I think that's a mistake. A couple of the main characters from these short stories were side characters in Worcester stories, but Jeeves and Wooster themselves are completely lacking. I thought it a nice enough addition to the J&W world, but the spouse is not yet familiar enough with all the characters and had trouble following. I finished the audiobook; he didn't.
2 1/2 stars. Some of it was very witty, but the jokes are mostly from a different generation and some were borderline offensive to the current generation. Also since I haven’t read any of his other works, I felt out of the loop with jumping into this book, as if I missed something. There was also lack of detail and the story endings were all fairly predictable. I wouldn’t read this again.
Slipped in a quick Wodehouse between SF/F reads. Another uproarious collection of witty short fiction featuring the marital mishaps of Bingo Little, the wacky wooings of Freddie Widgeon, and the ever-entertaining schemes of Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge.
Hilarious!
These are all amusing stories, but I read them all in one day and grew tired of young men who have no jobs and little ambition and sponge off others.
I enjoyed all the short stories in this collection, especially the first four, which follow Bingo Little. We have some entertaining tales here, with lots of fun and frolics. A running theme through all the stories is money - or rather the lack of it and the need to get, which leads to many a funny moment.
Could not finish. Yawn and double yawn.
Wodehouse short stories.
Can't stand Ukridge, rubs me the wrong way every time
But of course, this being Wodehouse, happy endings are the order of the day, and the stories usually end with Bingo back as the apple of R M Banks's eye.
Ukridge's typically elaborate and unethical schemes for making money or getting the girl are usually thwarted, with Wodehouse ensuring that the battle may be lost, but its lesson most certainly is not!There is also one Mr. Mulliner tale, and one story of a Crumpet (that's what I presumed!) named Frederick Fitch-Fitch called "Romance at Droitgate Spa", which is a real gem.
I had heard of Jeeves and Wooster but did not really know who had written such stories.
I had know idea what to expect except comedy.I loved the short story format about various different high society fellows of Britain's 1920s and 1930s decade.
I love some of the names the author comes up with and even describing situations is a complete barrel of laughs as one giggles a way through these truly funny stories of well-intentioned buffoons start off with great aplomb on all sorts of quests only to find themselves steamrollered into disastrous situations - one after another.
It tells a few stories of the life of Bingo Little as a married man, a Mulliner story and some Ukridge ones.
I especially like'A Bit of Luck for Mabel' in which he meets Mabel, daughter of a man who has built a great fortune in the east.
And so the story is about how Ukridge sets about securing these things and eventually gets to Ascot where the story ends, according to Corky who tells the Ukridge stories, with a bit of luck for Mabel.
Of the other stories i particularly like 'Sonny Boy' which tells how young Algernon Aubrey Little saves his father.

Since I've never read any Wodehouse, I was asking around and someone in the office said he had a couple and brought them in for me.
Eggs, Beans and Crumpets is a collection of nine short stories, mostly featuring some of Wodehouse's recurring characters (Bingo Little, Mr Mulliner and Ukridge are all present).
Reading them in quick succession was actually a bit wearing after a while, particularly the Bingo Little stories, since they mostly followed the same formula, but they're wittily written and easy to read.To be honest, I'm not actually sure if Wodehouse was being satirical in his stories or just reporting an exaggerated version of life for the upper classes in that time, but either way, I've enjoyed my first introduction to him, although in future I may space out his short stories a bit more.
Eggs, Beans and Crumpets is a delightful series of short stories in the form of anecdotes shared by the wealthy members of an exclusive club.
Each of these little vignettes is a superbly crafted comedy bordering on farce - elements of the drawing room comedy are present, as well as the tendancy in farces to rely on the awkward entrance of just the wrong character at just the right moment to create the maximum amount of tension.
Cecil is wonderfully British, with the ability to create a plethora of different characters, and really make the story live while you listen to it.
A nice little collection of short stories, containing lots of gambling, and trying to get the girl, quite a few curates, and talk of putting things up the spout.
I think the Ukridge tales contained the biggest laughs, though I was fond of the Bingo Little ones, too.
Reading them all at once they do start to blur together a bit as most of them contain similar themes (I was telling my parents one of the plotlines, and it was only later flicking through the book again I realised I had mashed two of the stories together by accident).
Eggs, Beans and Crumpets is a collection of nine short stories, that mine a rich vein of humour through intricate wordplay, finely drawn farcical plots and character asides. The Bingo Little stories, four out of the nine, in particular are really funny with some brilliantly memorable prose. I have not read any other Wodehouse works, so I cannot say how this collection stacks up against his novels, however this collection certainly makes me want to dive in and check out some of the more well known and respected books.
Another short stories compilation, ideal for those long boring middle school days where you have no classes so you sit at your desk at read. I must say that it definitely did the trick on those boring days, total slapstick at some points. Overall hilarious, it was not. Overall amusing, it was. Perhaps it's because I lack the British funny bone, but I would give it a chuckle versus, say, a guffaw.
