https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6260997-half-the-sky
We westerners should impose limits on how high you Africans can rise, but we will also look down on you for thinking your women are less deserving of opportunity than your men?The authors seem to be writing for a U.S. audience (many of the charity examples are from the U.S., and comments are made about the need for Americans to see more of the world), but there is no discussion of why the U.S., a developed, non-Muslim, country with equal voting rights, pretty good health care, and education for women, still has non-negligible problems with human trafficking, violence against women, and with disparate quality in maternal health.
I don’t think I’m exaggerating when I say I care about human rights for women and girls more than anything else in the entire world.
Ultimately, they say (**spoiler alert**) that the best ways to fight these injustices are through education, micro-finance loans to women entrepreneurs, and, surprisingly enough, getting TVs into rural areas of developing countries.They note that typically the mistake activists make, when trying to motivate people, is overwhelming them with statistics by trying to present the big picture of how the cause affects the world.
I guess I’m not telling this story to point out how silly it is that some kids think girls have to have long hair.
But, the worst part is the way that he naturalizes the oppression of women without historicizing the ways that neoliberal capitalism and development, colonialism, and the political economy of Western imperialism have helped to create these conditions--and not just "out there", but for U.S. third world women, too.The only reason that this does not get just 1 star is because a) the response that people have had to this book is worth noting--I take some heart in anything that makes people actually care that women are human, too and b) because he does highlight some of the atrocious statistics about women's inequality globally that the (particularly, American) public just never hears.At best, this book brings light to women's issues and hopefully causes some attention to women's needs in "development," and exposes the misogyny of our social world, which I believe can create change.
Nor did I fully realize how much all these atrocities can so intricately tie in with such things as the global economy and modern terrorism.Despite the authors notation that statistics are less effective in inspiring people to take action (personal stories work better), here are some statistics mentioned that I personally found hard to wrap my mind around:"More girls were killed in the last 50 years, precisely because they were girls, than men killed in all the wars in the 20th century.
The authors introduce us to individual women around the world battling these horrible conditions, and their strength and spirit shine through the pages.
We believe that, in this century, the paramount moral challenge will be the struggle for gender equality in the developing world." This book is a hugely important, shocking, eye opening and thought provoking read.
Oh my god this is so fucking powerful and sad and eye opening and just go read it right now. TW: rape and abuse.
We believe that in this century the paramount moral challenge will be the struggle for gender equality around the world." When I first heard Nicholas Kristof make this argument at the PIH symposium in October, I was taken aback.
In Half the Sky, Kristof and WuDunn compellingly argue that empowering women is not just a moral imperative, but a cause that has great potential to make a significant contribution to reducing other major issues like terrorism, poverty, hunger, and global warming.This is a bold book that dares to take a stand, political correctness be damned.
Half the Sky is not meant for those who seek scholarly material about the current state of women throughout the world.
The authors use heart wrenching stories to describe the reality millions of women experience each day.The reason I gave this book two stars is not because I disagree with the premise of the book or the authors' push to radically alter the trajectory of global rights -- sign me up!
What frustrated me, and in the end left a sour taste in mouth, was Chapter 12: The Axis of Equality.
There are many stories in this book where the authors discuss the mistakes that were made and the assumptions that were made, to the extent where I have to ask, did the people responsible for these programs even talk to the people living in the places they are trying to help first?
It really does seem like the most effective changes happen from within so I'm not sure I agree with some of the solutions posed, such as rich American college students spending a gap year helping to educate women in Africa.
Kristof and WuDunn give a call to arms, not because of guilt, but because it is simply the right thing to do.The thesis of the book is aptly illustrated though several stories of women who have succeeded, for the most part, despite the circumstances that they lived in.
Included in this section is the story of Usha Narayane, a woman who lived in an Indian slum.
While they present Westerns (primary Americans and Brits) who have helped women in developing countries, Kristof and WuDunn keep the focus on what local women are doing.
Everyone should read this book. The stories are `present` [not 10 years ago:]---shocking--and inspiring>>> this book is not just about woman's issues, but `human` issues. As the reader, it becomes clear how sexual equality is huge moral struggle `today-in-2010` around the globe....but many people are beginning to take inspired actions, [and we can too:].Its a great book to give to our daughters after we read it.
Everyone should read this book. The stories are `present` [not 10 years ago:]---shocking--and inspiring>>> this book is not just about woman's issues, but `human` issues. As the reader, it becomes clear how sexual equality is huge moral struggle `today-in-2010` around the globe....but many people are beginning to take inspired actions, [and we can too:].Its a great book to give to our daughters after we read it.
Such a great book.
It will make the reader more aware of the difficulties that women face and how they sometimes overcome these circumstances.
It shows you the strength and resilience that women show when faced with these circumstances.The book also provides first hand accounts of the women in these situations and also provides statistics.
It's hard to just stand by and do nothing after reading this book- even if that means signing up to newsletters to stay better informed of international women's rights!
One of the best books I've read addressing women's issues!
Really a depressing read.
So in the way of exposure, this is a must-read.
Also, they're really into NGOs and donations coming from good people in the west, but these problems are systemic and structural.
This is going to take a lot more than nice people and NGOs. It's my frequent frustration with Kristof and his ilk.
It was hilarious when he touted the three cups of tea guy as a lodestar for what others should do.
I sure as hell hope we can come up with something better than a fraudulent guy who gets press and steals money from donations.
(Pregnant women need iodine if their children are to realise their full intellectual potential).- A $1.6 billion project to eradicate obstetric fistulas, whilst also working generally on maternal well-being.Individuals can also help, and Krislof and Wudunn have particular respect for grassroot charities working with local people on the ground.
Herewith a few of them.*Shared Hope International (fights sex trafficking around the world)*Tostan (one of the best organisations in fighting genital mutilation in Africa).*CAMFED (Campaign for female education).
This charity is given glowing reports in the book.*Heal Africa (A hospital in the Congo, helping women with fistulas, and rape victims).*SEWA (Self Employed Women’s Association).
Our fiction book group decided to tackle Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide as our last book discussion this season.
If there are women who would crawl miles for medical attention, who are stoned to death because they have a broken hymen, who can state they are ”only raped” while men who leave the camp are killed, I owe these women the courtesy to finish the book and to think about ways that changes can be made.I heard loud and clear the feeling of some women of these women who have different viewpoints, different religions or cultures that who am I to tell them what to do or preach to them about women’s rights.
I definitely came away feeling one person can make a difference.Our group was grateful that the authors included pictures of some of the women whose stories they told.
It’s hard to escape the escalating decline in world conditions.
Even if the view outside our kitchen window is generally uneventful and peaceful, books like Half the Sky are a cold slice of reality pie.
Half the Sky focuses on human rights violations against women around the world, but mostly in Africa and Asia.
I enjoy documentaries and books like these because they make me more aware of what is going on around the world.
A compelling life story was almost always followed by a proposed plan of action that equated the group of women to monetary assets.
I'm a little bit concerned when empowerment of women becomes a political tool.
Domestic violence, rape and general mistreatment or oppression of women can easily be turned into a political symbol that represents nationalistic or other concerns (as is shown very clearly by the western media's portrayal of the Taliban's [and Islam's] treatment of women) rather than the need to give women better lives for their own sake.
Enloe argues that this is rarely beneficial for women.On the other hand, more women getting more education has to be a good thing, even if it's done for the wrong reasons, right?
Very near the end of book, the authors talk about this girl who was "the only white person in the room" telling a graduating class of young women in the Bronx that, despite any challenges THEY'VE face in their life, they're ~~~omg sooo lucky!!!~~~ Yuck.
:( I guess she would feel comfortable telling those women who got raped and disfigured in the Congo that they're "lucky because they're not dead." We should be living in a world where every person has the right to and expectation of an education, respect, and freedom.
I started reading Half the Sky on March 31st of 2011.
I read the first fifty pages of the book in bed and felt the heaviest weight on my chest.
Well, it has been more than a year and I am finally prepared to give this book a second chance.
I hope I am strong enough to get through not only the sadness inherent in the subject matter, but also the strong negative connotation that has developed due to the circumstances in which I quit reading it the first time.
My roomie says I can harass him for hugs if it gets too real and too sad.
Okay, I've totally had a change of heart regarding this book.
This person went so far as to say that infant boys feel just as oppressed as the girls who are cut.
Clearly, this person has no idea what these women and girls go through.
It made me realize how necessary this book is.
The suffering of these women and girls is real and intense beyond what we can even imagine (lucky us!).
Their stories need to be told.
As heartbreaking as it is, this needs to be required reading.
Outstanding account of the forces that are destroying the lives of young girls and mothers throughout the world and the keys to hope for effective action to address the problems.
The statistics are staggering, with 2-3 million girls and women forcefully enslaved annually compared to about 50,000 blacks enslaved at its peak in the 19th century, and more deaths have occurred from childbirth in the last 5 years than all those killed in all the wars in the last century.
You would do well to discontinue that pattern where this book is concerned because you will miss out on realistic visions of hope for a better world.
Everyone should read this book, EVERYONE!This is reporting at it's best. This book gives you facts and numbers galore, but the researched data plays a support role to the personal stories that provide the human basis for each topic addressing the oppression of women, as well as, the inroads in fighting it. It really covers every side of the story and does it so intelligently that it works on both sides of the brain in ebbs and flows; it touches you emotionally and then has you transition into more analytical thought and then back again.
This touched on some important topics that I know very little about. I'm glad I read it.
“Women hold up half the sky,” is a Chinese proverb that pulls these stories of women throughout the world together into one great call for the emancipation of women in 21st-century slavery.“When a prominent dissident was arrested in China, we would write a front-page article; when 100,000 girls were routinely kidnapped and trafficked into brothels, we didn’t even consider it news.
How many American tourists and business men have bragged about their trips to Thailand to enjoy all that “open” sex trade?I, too, have at times wondered if one way of combating the abuse of girls and women into forced prostitution (an interesting phrase, implying that any woman in her right mind would willingly prostitute herself if she had other options available) by legalizing it and so offering certain protections to women, might be at least a partial answer.
However, I thought that this criticism ignored the running theme that most of the successes discussed in the book were grassroots efforts lead by local women and organizations who understood firsthand what they needed and what wouldn't work.
However, by and large, the authors again and again pointed to local women being the most successful architects of their own improvements.
The authors would not have hurt their message if they acknowledged that Western women are not safe from violence either but that their focus for the book was going to be on other parts of the world.
The abuse and strength of women in developing and third world countries is told through the stories of individual women the authors have met.
More girls have been killed in the last fifty years, precisely because they were girls, than men were killed in all the wars of the twentieth century, they write, detailing the rampant gendercide in the developing world, particularly in India and Pakistan.
Far from merely making moral appeals, the authors posit that it is impossible for countries to climb out of poverty if only a fraction of women (9% in Pakistan, for example) participate in the labor force.
I think my problem with the book is that instead of challenging the system that is oppressing these women, it's throwing options like micro-finance at the problem.
Instead of critically examining what kind of system (political or economic) would be least oppressive to people world wide, it's touting capitalism, which always relies on power imbalance, exploitation and individualism.
Options like micro-finance are hugely transformative for people who receive those grants, but not culturally transformational.
I would recommend this book for someone who was not really aware of international injustice towards women, almost as a base, but not as a problem solver.
I have some philosophical differences with the authors, and I think they were too soft on conservatives (worldwide, not just Republicans). However, their global vision and dedication to humanitarian goals are unparalleled and inspiring.
Many of these women escaped torture and cruelty from their own families and government laws, and from religious authorities and community customs.
However, this is a reality for many Muslim women.Shushing up or covering up any explicit conversation about these 'cultures' and 'customs' and religions to avoid blaming communities because of the possibility of ethnocentrism is vile and evil to me.
It was the government, community, religion and family who tortured and oppressed them (my words).This book, and many politically correct liberals and conservatives, would rather use different words instead of abuse - words like 'discrimination' or 'cultural norms' or 'religious faith'.
I first learned about human trafficking around 2008 and I know awareness has grown considerably since that time.
While this book didn't tell me anything "new", it reminded me of the importance of staying aware and involved.
Overall, though, this is a powerful book that blends personal stories with facts and figures to convey what women's rights issues across the world.
The authors engage in a little too much Bush-hating for my taste, but I think they do a good job addressing the concerns of varying sides of the political spectrum when tugging on the heart strings.
A good book for awareness and a powerful read no matter how familiar you are with the issues brought forward.
[To add the review later. Need to really think and process what I've just learned. Definitely wasn't an easy read.]
