https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237764.Un_se_or_muy_viejo_con_unas_alas_enormes
This short story was very confusing and we had a lengthy discussion during class. Short review to come.
Have you ever consider the possibility that even if something divine did exist, it must be something very different from what representatives of various religions represent it to be? Here is an angel that is not anywhere as glorious as religions will have us believe. Like in other Marquez story I have read 'The Handsomest Drowned Man In the World' the centeral character himself never utters a word, we only get reactions from other people.There are also the themes of ficklish sensationalism in general and the way religion is often reduced to entertainment for purposes of money.Read it free:https://www.ndsu.edu/pubweb/~cinichol...
A short story...with evocative and magical words...that warmed my heart...and left me enchanted.
Besides Marquez also takes a dig at the human nature in the presence of a helpless creature and its ever temporary enthusiasm for something new.The second story is titled as The Sea of Lost Time.
The setting is a seaside village where the dead are not buried but are tossed into the sea.
The fonder the memories the more beautiful and younger one grows in the Sea of Lost Time.This story also speaks many other themes.
El cuento relata el pobre estado de un ser alado muy viejo, el cual suponen que era un ángel. Durante una tormenta, es encontrado en el patio de una casa. Los propietarios de la casa abusan de este ser increíble, y lo llevan para un gallinero tratándolo como una atracción de circo. El visitante causa entre todos un gran revuelo; se forman largas filas de curiosos que pagan por verlo. Sin embargo, la aparición de un nuevo fenómeno, una mujer con cuerpo de araña, hace que todo el mundo pierda el interés en el ángel.
I know this is "Magic Realism" but I'm putting it in my fantasy and realistic fiction shelves.Well, the best thing about this short stories is that it doesn't appear what it seems like.
My teacher always asked us after proving a point, "What does that say about us?" And it's so good because we hardly notice these things but through magic realism, Garcia Marquez is able to portray how evil the society can be.So yes, yet again I have learned to not judge a story but it's weirdness or whatever since it has some logical explanations and reasons along the way.

The light was so weak at noon that when Pelayo was coming back to the house after throwing away the crabs, it was hard for him to see what it was that was moving and groaning in the rear of the courtyard. He had to go very close to see that it was an old man, a very old man, lying face down in the mud, who, in spite of his tremendous efforts, couldn’t get up, impeded by his enormous wings.Stirring and elegiac, this is the kind of story that stays with you for years after you read it.
One of my favorite short stories, one that really questions the way ordinary peoples' collective perception of "miracles" turns to scorn when it isn't as majestic as they expect. I wish my edition of the book had a better front cover. This one seems to feature a screenshot from a Goosebumps episode, which is really out-of-place. O_o
i'm so busy these days with reading stuff that i literally forget to add them.so this short story, undermines the established belief in religion with a simple image, an angel. but not any angel, a broken, miserable angel.since it's a work in magic realism genre, we can't go very deep and go layer by layer lower, but this magic serves its purpose sufficiently.
شهرت ادبی گابریل گارسیا مارکز با اصطلاح رئالیسم جادویی عجین است. رئالیسم جادویی که منتقدین ادبی آن را آمیختن خیال با واقعیت معنا می کنند، در آثار مارکز و بسیاری از دیگر نویسندگان آمریکای لاتین دیده می شود. داستانهای رئالیسم جادویی روایتی از زندگی واقعی اند که در بخش هایی از داستان با دنیایی خیالی و حوادثی جادویی همراه می شویم. این حوادث خیالی معمولا نمادین بوده و همچون اتفاقاتی عادی و واقعی توصیف می شوند. دلیل شایع بودن سبک رئالیسم جادویی در آمریکای لاتین به خاطر ارتباط عمیق آن با داستانهای فولک
شهرت ادبی گابریل گارسیا مارکز با اصطلاح رئالیسم جادویی عجین است.
رئالیسم جادویی که منتقدین ادبی آن را آمیختن خیال با واقعیت معنا می کنند،‌ در آثار مارکز و بسیاری از دیگر نویسندگان آمریکای لاتین دیده می شود.
داستان‌های رئالیسم جادویی روایتی از زندگی واقعی اند که در بخش هایی از داستان با دنیایی خیالی و حوادثی جادویی همراه می شویم.
این حوادث خیالی معمولا نمادین بوده و همچون اتفاقاتی عادی و واقعی توصیف می شوند.
دلیل شایع بودن سبک رئالیسم جادویی در آمریکای لاتین به خاطر ارتباط عمیق آن با داستان‌های فولکلوری است که هنوز هم در مناطق روستایی از عمومیت خاصی در میان مردم برخوردارند.
This very short 32 page story was picked to help complete my reading challenge.A very different idea in that an old man is found in courtyard with huge wings.
We do not know why he has wings, what they symbolise or why he is there and as the reader you are left to try to decide.
But the underlying points put in to question are about peoples reactions to what is not the norm and how we deal with that and the control we have over our own and others destiny.I enjoyed the language used and descriptions in this magical realism tale.
"He had to go very close to see that it was an old man, a very old man, lying face down in the mud, who, in spite of his tremendous efforts, couldn't get up, impeded by his enormous wings." - Yep, this what we work with here. My introduction to Gabriel García Márquez.I do not like jumping on trends. I brought 100 Years of Solitude a week before GGM died and I have put off reading it because I did not want his still recent death to color my interpretation. I have now decided to read some short st
I brought 100 Years of Solitude a week before GGM died and I have put off reading it because I did not want his still recent death to color my interpretation.
I have now decided to read some short stories by him to warm me up to the novel.
This is the first story I have read by him.Can't say what I was to expect with that title, what you read is what you get.
I do not want to talk about the plot too much but I must say that the narrative is a very cleaver look at how these people look at and rationalize such a familiar yet uncanny and mysterious(?) sight.
Incredible - as usual. Gabriel Garcia Marquez has the most amazing way of turning the mundane into the extraordinary through his vivid storytelling and memorable lines: "a Portugese man who couldn't sleep because the noise of the stars disturbed him", was a personal favourite line of mine. Truly beautiful writing.
Townspeople soon got word that there was an angel in their chicken coop so they came by in masses to poke it, throw rocks at it, and mock it from afar.
With the money they earned they built a two story mansion but the stench of the chicken coop and the presence of the very old man with enormous wings was still infringing on their new life.
After the couple built their mansion the angel knew that the test was over, they failed, so he got up and flew away.
يسقط الحدث عند أقدامنا، نتفاعل معه بطرق مختلفة، نقابله بداية بالانبهار، ونكسب مادياً من تسويق هذا الانبهار.ثمّ نكتشف أنه لا يلاقي تطلعاتنا فنحاسبه بقسوة على تخييب آمالنا، ونجرّده كل الصفات المقدسة لأنه لا يتحدث لغتنا، لغة الرب.
محاولاتنا للتفسير لا تقل حماقة عن ردود أفعالنا، فإما أن نسأل الآباء المقدسين أو أن نفسّر مدفوعين بكل تحيّز الأكوان.قد يكون الملاك ملاكاً بالفعل، قد نمتلك فرصة لا تتكرر للاستمتاع بما هو سحري ومختلف واستثنائي، لكن ميلنا المريض للعادي وكل ما يشبهنا، وخوفنا من الخروج من مناطق راحتنا يمنعنا.تتحدث هذه القصة القصيرة، قصة الرجل العجوز بجناحين كبيرين، عن الفساد الديني والاجتماعي، عن النفس البشرية، واستخدام البحر أعطى إيحاء ما بالأبدية.
Me encanta el realismo mágico de Gabriel García Márquez. Sin embargo, si algún día le leo esta historia a un niño no sabré responder a la muy probable pregunta «Qué pasó con el Ángel?».
Wow. Creo que es mi cuento favorito de Gabo, por ahora.
The connection Marquez makes between the angel and the tarantula and citizens view of religion is really strange, but in a good and interesting way.
Possibly the best short story I've ever read!
I feel so sad for the way they treaded him... Whether he was an angel or not, he was vulnerable and in need of care and all they did was use him
I read this for a fiction writing class, and I still think about it sometimes.
i still want to know, was it an a angel or what.
4 to 4 1/2 starsExcerpts: His only supernatural virtue seemed to be patience. Especially during the first days, when the hens pecked at him, searching for the stellar parasites that proliferated in his wings, and the cripples pulled out feathers to touch their defective parts with, and even the most merciful threw stones at him, trying to get him to rise so they could see him standing. The only time they succeeded in arousing him was when they burned his side with an iron for branding steers, fo
He awoke with a start, ranting in his hermetic language and with tears in his eyes, and he flapped his wings a couple of times, which brought on a whirlwind of chicken dung and lunar dust and a gale of panic that did not seem to be of this world.
He seemed to be in so many places at the same time that they grew to think that he’d be duplicated, that he was reproducing himself all through the house, and the exasperated and unhinged Elisenda shouted that it was awful living in that hell full of angels.
I enjoyed the strange aspects of this story and even though all the characters were terrible people, it added to the story. I like the message it sent and I feel like different people will take different things from it which is good. Not so much a fan of the religious aspects but it was a good story.
I really liked this story. It has a lot of metaphorical implications and the writing style is beautiful. We read it for a short story class - it's not very long and I'll probably reread it at some point. I've heard others say it's a very important story.
أول مرة أقرأ لماركيز أعجبني خياله الشاسع
Un cuento muy corto de Gabo que no conocía y me encontré por casualidad. Muy bueno. Me gustó.
Pobrecito señor ángel :(
Cortito, sencillo y muy Gabo.Me gusto..!!
