https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157409.Dream_Story
“Am I sure? Only as sure as I am that the reality of one night, let alone that of a whole lifetime, can ever be the whole truth.”  The Bride (1918) by KlimtIt all begins with a confession of sorts as his wife Albertine tells him of a fantasy she had involving a man that she saw on their vacation. Fridolin also confesses that he had desired a young woman on the beach. It seems fairly harmless after all. When we marry, we don’t go numb from the waist down and the neck up. We continue to notice att
Is it just me or do those wire rimmed glasses make her look very naughty!Stanley Kubrick directed a film based on this novel called Eyes Wide Shut, (1999) starring the then married Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise.
I have a feeling the two may have very little to do with each other, but I’m sure out there in GR land, there are several people who can weigh in on whether the film conveyed Schnitzler’s thoughts or was just a jumping off place for Kubrick/Kidman/Cruise to explore their own ideas.
But masks rarely symbolise anything benign, especially not black masks...Fidelity, Temptation, and TruthIf we promise and expect fidelity, we’re usually thinking of sexual exclusivity, but the word also means truth, in the sense of a full and accurate recreation or reportage.•	Where does honest confession of sexual infidelity - real or imagined - fit?
For though they were united in thought and feeling, they knew that the preceding day had not been the first time that the spirit of adventure, freedom and danger had beckoned them.
Fridolin, surprised to discover through conversations with Albertine that she is capable of virtual infidelity and of harbouring sexual fantasies about strangers, sets out to roam the dark streets of Vienna in search of answers to his divided loyalty: how can he be so jealous of things he is also guilty of?
The big shock and surprise for me about this story was that it written in 1926, it feels like something that belongs to an era twenty or thirty years earlier, perhaps that is part of the point.In a cafe by chance the main character the Doctor Fridolin meets his old friend Nightingale, Nightingale has a wife and four children back in Lemburg who he supports by playing the piano badly in various shady establishments.
Is there something weird happening out there on the mean streets of Vienna, ought he be frightened that his daughter's bedtime story spills over into his wife's erotic dream, should he fear the removal of the mask?
This is a masterpiece unpeeling layer after layer of reality to show that there is no "core" reality (besides sex and death maybe), only illusion after illusion.Something that helps create the dream atmosphere of this book are the inconsequential details that Schnitzler includes, such as when Fridolin (Tom Cruise) comments to himself on the smell of the costume as he's putting it on.
There's no other mention of this, but it's just this kind of detail in one's own dreams that seems so pregnant with unspecified meaning and significance, and it works in the same way in the book.The one thing I liked better about the movie was Nicole Kidman's line at the end.
Ένας άνδρας που ζούσε υπό φυσιολογικές συνθήκες, εξαφανίστηκε στα ξαφνικά, δεν υπήρχαν νέα του, ωσότου επέστρεψε μερικούς μήνες ή χρόνια αργότερα δίχως να έχει την παραμικρή ιδέα για το πού βρισκόταν όλον αυτόν τον καιρό.
Η γυναίκα ως περισσότερο καταπιεσμένη βιώνει μια περιπέτεια μέσα στο όνειρό της ο άνδρας από την άλλη οργώνει το κέντρο και τα προάστια της πόλης του.
Μέσα εκεί λοιπόν, σε αυτόν τον σκιώδη χώρο, ίσα που ακροπατά ο ήρωας αυτής της ιστορίας, ίσα για να δοκιμάσει τα όρια, τις λεπτές εκείνες γραμμές που χωρίζουν την πραγματικότητα από την φαντασίωση.
He doesn't create the kind of dream world that is engineered by hanging two moons from the ceiling.
He simply colors the world his characters inhabit with a hypnotic quality that seduces the reader into the dream-scape.
He lets the characters assess what constitutes truth and reality for them.
Perhaps it won't even matter."Just as sure as I am that the reality of one night, let alone that of a whole lifetime, is not the whole truth.""And no dream," he said with a slight sigh, "is entirely a dream." Best read in a sitting or two.
فروید معتقد بود که رویا تحقق امیال و آرزوهای درونی ماست که در عالم واقعیت چون از داشتنشون شرمساریم مانع وقوعشون می شیم ولی در خواب بهشون رجوع می کنیم تا هم به این امیال رسیده باشیم و هم حس گناه نداشته باشیم تمایلات برآورده نشده اروتیک بین فریدولین و البرتینا،سر منشأ مشکلات عاطفی بین این زوج میشه.فریدولین و البرتینا از شروع داستان شروع به فاصله گرفتن از هم و بیگانه شدن می کنن.چرا؟ چون هرکدوم اعتراف می کنند که در فلان روز بدشون نمیومده رابطه جنسی خارج از خانواده رو با فلان شخص تجربه کنند...اتفاقی که علی رغم امکان وقوعش و وجود تمایل از طرف اونها عملی نشد ولی با این حال اثر سو خودش رو بر رابطه زناشویی این دو گذاشتفریدولین و آلبرتینا هر یک به شیوه ای این امیال فرو خورده خود رو برآورده می کنند.
Η ιστορία αυτή είναι ο ορισμός του "μερικά πράγματα καλό είναι να μην γίνονται και να μην λέγονται". Πέρα απο την πλακα όμως πρόκειται για μια πολυ ατμοσφαιρική νουβέλα με χαρακτήρες ολοκληρωμένους κι ενα από τα πιο πετυχημένα ψυχογραφηματα ενός παντρεμένου ζευγαριού.
"Eyes Wide Shut" I know it's loosely based and there was more fantasy than reality in this book.There is also a lot of Freudian psychology in this book (Freud (another Austrian) and Schnitzler knew each other)We see a couple confessing to each other.Doctor Fridolin and his wife Albertina (it reminds me of the word libertine (a person, who freely indulges in sensual pleasures without regard to moral principles) ).She confesses her sexual fantasies with (probably) a hung military officer from Denmark she saw while they were on vacation there.Then the doctor admits he had also been attracted to a young girl during that same vacation.Then we see Fridolin's wanderings through the streets of Vienna to pursue his own personal fantasies.He encounters a secret society's orgy, he meets with a prostitute at a brothel, and comes in contact with a woman's corpse in the morgue among other experiences.Of course the whole novella leaves many things unsaid.Were Fridoli's experiences a dream or not.
Prinzipiell hat Arthur Schnitzler hier eine sehr gute Geschichte begonnen, diese Ehe voller Nadelstiche, kleiner Kränkungen und gegenseitiger Entfremdung.
Das merkt man auch beim Ende, als der Ehemann alles beichtet und dann ist alles wieder gut.
Diese Dame versteht es wirklich, Ihren Mann zwar nicht körperlich zu betrügen, aber ihm durch die Erzählung ihres Traumes unmissverständlich klarzumachen, dass sie es erstens könnte und dass sie es zweitens aus Verachtung sehr gerne tun wollte.
Diese Szenen einer Ehe hätte ich aber gerne noch ein bisschen länger, intensiver betrachtet und nicht mit so einem derart abrupten unglaubwürdigen Happy End versehen.
Freud meets Chekhov in decadent Vienna. Dreams, repression, love, lust, marriage, all that good stuff. Kubrick made a movie out of it. If this doesn't grab your attention, I'm not sure if I know you anymore.
The inspiration for Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut, this delicious little novella weaves —unravels— an enchanting story of loves disintegration. Mesmerising and beguiling; twisted and intricate; deceptive and illuminating – a scrumptious read. It's fascinating to see how Kubrick interpreted this visually too.
Doppio sogno “Traumnovelle”, é un testo sospeso tra conscio e inconscio, una coppia sposata intraprende due viaggi all’interno dei loro desideri e delle loro oscurità.
Questo libro gioca con il concetto di identità (tutto parte da un ballo in maschera, il tema poi ritorna in varie forma all’interno del romanzo) suggerendo come la realtà sia sogno e il sogno sia più reale di quel che sembri.
L’apparente normalità è solo una maschera (appunto) di moti dell’istinto che reprimiamo, scegliendo di credere alla felicità domestica...fortemente ambiguo con più chiavi di interpretazione, il libro vi si aprirà come uno scrigno, arrivando e passando come un sogno, nel mio caso durato un viaggio di treno.
That sets off Fridolin on an exploration into his life, his wishes and desires.In 1926, when this was originally published, it was probably a pretty scandalous book.
My thoughts were more along the lines of "oh, another guy exploring his midlife crisis!" Which is probably really shallow of me.
Go read some of the other reviews, they looked at this properly and made an effort to give you a well rounded and educated idea about this famous piece.The movie Eyes Wide Shut is based on this novella, but I have never watched it, so I can't say how it compares.The delivery of the German audiobook I listened to was pretty wooden.
La donna lo fa a livello inconscio, consumando in un sogno così nitido da sembrare reale un tradimento fittizio quanto crudele; l’uomo invece vagheggia, in una realtà che ha i contorni indistinti del sogno e delle più torbide fantasie erotiche, tradimenti che non si attueranno, a dispetto delle facili occasioni che pure gli si prospettano.
Nell’ansia di affermare la propria supremazia, Fridolin arde di sdegno per un tradimento solo sognato e la moglie diventa per lui l’antagonista mortale della quale deve assolutamente vendicarsi.
O ultimo filme de Stanley Kubrick, "De Olhos Bem Fechados", foi inspirado neste livro.
Lembro-me vagamente do enredo e, fatalmente, foi o rosto de Tom Cruise e Nicole Kidman que visualizei nos protagonistas; o que diminuiu o factor surpresa e a tarefa de criar, na minha imaginação, as imagens das personagens e de algumas cenas.
Ao regressarem de uma festa, confessam um ao outro as suas fantasias e aventuras sexuais, reais ou imaginárias, o que vai despoletar em Fridolin ciúme, insegurança e inquietação, arrastando-o para uma noite de aventuras estranhas e perigosas.Em meu entender, este livro pode ter várias interpretações, consoante a criatividade de cada um e a atenção que tivermos aos pormenores.Os acontecimentos protagonizados por Fridolin foram Sonho, Imaginação, Realidade?Quantas vezes o sonhar acordado não é uma forma de criar uma nova realidade?
Obra maestra de sobriedad y suspenso, psicología, un retrato impecable de las relaciones humanas, las de pareja en especial, y sus muchas sutilezas, enredos, complicaciones, y los alcances del inconsciente.Bravo.
Nessun sogno è interamente un sogno.
Muazzam! Yazar psikanaliz açısından rüyaları çözmüş, formüle edip edebiyata uyarlamış sanki. Boşuna edebiyatın Freud u dememişler sanki.
I'm a rare fan of Kubrick's "Eyes Wide Shut" and so I looked forward to this, but found it too close to the film and yet nowhere near as vivid.
A cool thing in the movie is the color scheme -- red, blue, and purple.
Blue-inflected scenes represent fidelity, domesticity.
Red scenes represent temptation, fantasy.
Purple scenes are a mix, a conflict of the fidelity and fantasy.
The novella has its moments but seemed to me muddied by the translated prose and superimposition of the film.
The password in the book is Denmark instead of Fidelio, but otherwise things generally proceed along the same lines.
For some reason my first thought after reading this was that Jeremy Irons would have been a far better choice to play the Fridolin character rather than Tom Cruise in the movie 'Eyes Wide Shut', which is based on this short story. It is a thought-provoking exploration of fantasy and jealousy within a marriage set against the backdrop of upper class Vienna and its seedy underbelly lurking beneath.
Traumnovelle, Arthur Schnitzler عنوان: بازی در سپیده دم و رویا؛ نویسنده: آرتور شنیتسلر؛ مترجم: علی اصغر حداد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، چاپ دوم 1391، در 212 ص، عنوان دیگر: رویا؛شابک: 9789644484322؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 مدو داستان: بازی در سپیده دم ؛ و رویا
Traumnovelle, Arthur Schnitzler عنوان: بازی در سپیده‌ دم و رویا؛ نویسنده: آرتور شنیتسلر؛ مترجم: علی اصغر حداد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، چاپ دوم 1391، در 212 ص، عنوان دیگر: رویا؛شابک: 9789644484322؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 مدو داستان: بازی در سپیده دم ؛ و رویا
Therefore, although the question whether we dream our lives or we truly lives them is by no means new, haunting both thinkers and artists from the beginning of time, it is however beautifully reinterpreted by the author, who mixes psychological and artistic knowledge to imagine a world just in between the two notions:He was in a narrow street in which only a few doubtful-looking women were strolling about in a pitiful attempt to bag their game.

C'è quella sensazione che a volte ci pervade, quando abbiamo finito di leggere un libro o siamo appena usciti da una sala cinematografica, e che ci fa capire che la storia non è finita lì, ma che ci accompagnerà per sempre.
Doppio Sogno è uno di quei rari casi in cui si ha la certezza che qualcosa in noi è cambiato e che d'ora in avanti guarderemo le persone in maniera differente.
Il simbolo del libro?
Il doppio che è in ciascuno di noi.
واقعيت يك شب ، حتي واقعيت يك عمر زندگي در عين حال عميق ترين حقيقت آن نيست ...١٩ ارديبهشت ١٣٩٥
پیشنوشت: این ریویو باید، باید مفصّلتر از قبلیها باشد. سربههوایی کافی است.روشنسازی: کتاب، شامل دو داستان _یا به قول آقای حدّاد، «نووِل»_ است: 1. بازی در سپیدهدم و 2. رؤیا.متن 1: الحق که شنیتسلر خوب کرد نویسندگی پیشه کرد.متن 2: مدّتها بود یکی از عناصر داستان را از یاد بردهبودم: «تعلیق»! داستانِ «بازی در سپیدهدم» به یادم آوردش. شرایط خیلی بحرانی بود و نویسنده بدون این که خواننده را آرام کند، ماجرای اصلی را توی ماست و پیاز خواباندهبود و رفتهبود سراغ شراب ملس مجاری و سیگار اصل مصری.متن 3: کتاب را با
داستان‌ها در سال‌های 27-1926 نوشته شده‌اند و نمی‌دانم آن موقع چیزی به اسم روان‌پزشک داشته‌ایم یا نه.) داستانِ اوّل، توقّعِ حاصل‌شده از پیش‌زمینه‌ام را بی‌جواب گذاشت، امّا داستان دوم (رؤیا) پاسخ درخوری به‌ش داد.متن 4: نوولِ «رؤیا» را جا به جا «تالیِ ادبیِ نظریّۀ روان‌شناسیِ زیگموند فروید» دانسته‌اند.
امّا سعی می‌کنم هر وقت با نظرّیۀ روان‌شناسیِ زیگموند فروید بیش تر آشنا شدم برگردم نظرم را بگویم.متن 6: نویسنده به جنبۀ روانیِ شخصیّت‌ها و عقده‌هایشان در داستان دوم خوب پرداخته‌بود.
I should perhaps say that I only read it because it is a set text on a university course I am doing.
I realise that I am reading it in translation, but the language is so remarkably cliche-ridden and trite.
We are supposed to be reading about deep, disturbing experiences and for me it all comes over as if the central character is on a trip through a shopping mall of would-be bizarre consumer events.I was very shocked when I went to ' Eyes wide shut ' and thought that a director I really admire had made one of the most boring films ever.
The translation of my edition, titled "Rhapsody : A Dream Novel," via Otto P. Schinnerer, is tedious and colorless. (I read it 2xs). I fully understand what Schnitz is up to, but I prefer the Freudian landscape of D H Lawrence. Kubrick's mishap has vaporized for me, though I recall his orgy sequence as being by someone who'd never risked this diversion. As Schnitz felt, however, illusion is more desirable than truth.
