https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1267866.Happy_Birthday_Wanda_June
“Yeah, Jesus—but wars would be a lot better, I think, if guys would say to themselves sometimes, ‘Jesus—I’m not going to do that to the enemy. That’s too much.’”“My violin is avenged!”
Whether or not this is fair to Hemingway as a person, Vonnegut has nonetheless managed to write a witty, entertaining play, even if it does grow a little too preachy at the end.Penelope Ryan's husband, Harold Ryan, went on a safari and has been missing for eight years.
Heroes are the type of people, she says to him, who hate home and try to stay away as often as possible, but when they are home they make "awful messes." That's exactly what Harold Ryan does.Wanda June is also a character in the play.
I know a lot of people aren't very fond of this play, they wish Vonnegut would've stuck with novels. And who can blame them when his novels are so glorious?But personally, I thought Wanda June was brilliant! It hilarious, dark, poignant, and supremely hopeful (just like all Vonnegut's work.) I rather enjoyed the fact it was in play format rather than novel or short story. It's an interesting experiment. The characters feel alive in a slightly different way, and the jokes land harder. While Kurt left plays well alone afterwards I'm left wanting more of his writing in this format.
Vonnegut wrote only one play (thank goodness!) and set it as a retelling of Odysseus's return home from war set in the mid 20th century.
The role of the returning war hero is Penelope's brutish husband, Harold, an older, gruffy, rude man who's been missing for 8 years while diamond hunting.
A lover of big game, guns and "traditional" masculinity, he revels in his surprise return and emotional control over his family.Frequently the play reads like something from The Theater of the Absurd.
In true Vonnegut fashion, Happy Birthday, Wanda June is a commentary on heroism, war, and death.
Funny as hell, and surprisingly relevant more than forty years on. It exposes a truth - although it does so by over-exagerated means; that's part of why it's so funny. Vonnegut, like many great playwrites, knew to give the villain all the good lines.
Dialogue never was Vonnegut's strong point. His brilliance came about in his descriptions of oddities and his simple, one-sentence life truths. So a play is less than ideal for ol' Kurt - it's just harder for him to convey what he's best at conveying in this format.That having been said, this is reasonably funny and reasonably interesting and reasonably strange. It's just not the greatest play I've ever read, and not the greatest Vonnegut. Plus a copy is a bitch to rustle up.
The last time I read a play that made me laugh at the end and say wow, it was Beckett's Waiting for Godot. Well played Mr Vonnegut, well played...
"Un uomo, nel significato antico e perduto del termine... una scimmia vendicativa che uccide. Presto sarà estinta." (p. 140)
His wife, Penelope, has believed him to be dead and has accepted the attentions of two suitors; Dr. Norbert Woodly (my son's role) and Herb Shuttle, a vacuum cleaner salesman.
Their son, Paul, never believed his father was dead and has tried to discourage the suitors.As Penelope says in the opening line, "This is a simple minded play about men who enjoy killing - and those who don't".
Harold says "I have killed perhaps two hundred men in wars of various sorts....I have killed thousands of other animals as well - for sport".And Woodly, "I am a physician, a healer.
After contemplating taking it ("they won't notice, it's an old book, probably belonged to one of the kids that are now grown up" etc) I settled on the idea of reading it at the house.After waiting for Deb to go to sleep, I tried to imagine that I was actually in a theatre, about to watch a play written by Kurt Vonnegut.
There was only a small cast, but through the dialogue, as well as Vonnegut's use of limited but effective imagery and props, it was fluid and entertaining.I think reading Vonnegut's intro at the beginning of the book may have made a contribution to my enjoying this so much.
I'm not surprised that Vonnegut chose to set Penelope's half of the Odyssey in the military build-up period of the 1950s.
Of course, I shouldn't quibble too much with the surrealities of the story; it was written by Vonnegut, and so does contain a birthday cake made to celebrate a dead girl, only to have it given to Ryan in honor of his birth.
And while Vonnegut has a way with a phrase, his strength doesn't rely in specific characterization; it relies on satire, on commentary.
And while this is a dependable satire, it is not necessarily a deep or surprising one.
this book is out of print and rather difficult to find. i had pined for it, but refused to pay twenty bucks or more for a used book. my roommate bought for me for my 22nd birthday. it was pretty bad. but at least vonnegut was going for it. i think the pathetic play recounted in deadeye dick was the literary manifestation of his profound disappointment over this play. but it was bad. and he had every right to be disappointed. at least deadeye dick wasn't so bad.
I love Vonnegut, but this is a mess. I don't know if he was bored or tired or had simply run out of ideas following Slaughterhouse-5, but there is almost nothing to recommend this. The humor is juvenile, and the satire is simplistic and overly obvious. Vonnegut fans may want to read it simply to check it off the list, but if you are simply curious about Vonnegut, do not start here.
I was glad I had read the introduction to the play before I read the actual script. I very much like the idea of a retelling of Odysseus' homecoming from a less heroic perspective. That said, the play felt fairly amateur. The characters were pretty flat and not a lot gets resolved. Also it feels really hung up in the era it was written.
This is the first Kurt Vonnegut anything I'm reading and I was definitely not disappointed. He reminded me of Woody Allen's works,especially his plays .I am definitely definitely reading all his works now. I .loved. this. Period.
The weirdest part for me was the dream I had later where I was in a movie version of the play that took place in my Chicago hotel room. The play was fine. Very clever - could have been something bigger, but it wasn't. Eh.
Not essential, but if you like Vonnegut it might be worth the short read. Wouldn't mind seeing it acted out if I have the opportunity.
Vonnegut is awesome, but plays are not his thing. Stick to his novels.
I don't think the author did as well with the play format as he did with the novels and short stories.
I like reading dramas and I like Vonnegut but this is not one of his better efforts.
I enjoyed the dialogue between characters, as well as the heaven sequences with Wanda June who's killed on her birthday, her cake ends up in Penelope's (one of our main characters) house and a Nazi who was killed by Penelope's estranged husband Harold ( who's one of Vonnegut's more loathsome characters).
Wanda June is afloat throughout most of the play and her connection to the main action is strenuous at best but I enjoyed the character of Penelope, it's no secret that Vonnegut struggled to write fully fleshed out female characters but Penelope is a strong, intelligent women, who doesn't take shit from anyone.
The inscription on my frontispiece: "Good intentions guided by ignorance and blasphemy leads only to frustration and futility. Not worth the read.CB"(view spoiler)[I can't actually recall Vonnegut discussing these issues before. He's talked about "War is hell" and "So it goes" quite a bit, but he very rarely discusses gender issues and how much society changed during and just after the war.Despite what the guy who wrote that inscription thought, I still thought it was worth the read.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UgYkR... (hide spoiler)]
Vonnegut is one of my top 5 authors I've ever read. That being said, I don't think this is his best work. But it is definitely worth reading. There are some good one-liners in there. However, the "Wanda June" character is rather puzzling. The play is named after her, but she has nothing to do with anything. The characters never even find out who she is. I also came away not really certain if any of the characters grew or changed in the story. It is an interesting vignette of a family's life, but a forgetful one.
It was interesting to see Kurt Vonnegut switch from novellas to a stage play and how he managed it. For the most part, his trademark style and humor carry over well. I enjoyed the story and dialogue and found it a relatively quick read (probably even faster if you're not a veterinary medicine student with limited time). I'd recommend it for anyone looking for a quick read and an interesting story.
Not one of Vonnegut's best, but still entertaining. As with most Vonnegut books, I'm guessing on the read date. I went on a bender and read most of his books available to me in the library in the mid/late 1980s.
Brimming with sadness and truth, peppered with humor...would be quite interesting to see performed on the stage. The first Wanda June monologue, as well as the dialogue between Wanda June and Von Konigswald detailing their club are especially poignant.
In Vonnegut’s 1971 play, presented is a character profile of men who enjoy killing and men who don’t. When Harold, a trophy hunter, returns to his home after being declared dead for eight years while on an exploration, he exerts his toxic masculinity on his wife who has emotionally moved on.
A pretty good play. A tad unconventional but an easy read and filled with Vonnegut's usual humour.
A wonderful play, a great book. Very dated now, but still worth it.
Not only did I read this play, I saw it preformed lived at the University of Maine in Portland -- which was done with a new ending written for the play by Mr. Vonnegut himself.. . .
