https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26999.Something_Rotten
Jasper Fforde has easily made his way into my favourite authors list.
He is smart, witty, inventive, and packs his Thursday Next series full of literary references.
He's basically a book lovers dream.
The only terrible thing about reading one of his books is knowing it has to end.
This one was definitely one of my favourites.
Fforde seems to have had a vision of the future because I could swear he based his villain character Yorrick Kaine on Trump.
Thursday is, as usual, a magnificent heroine and I cannot wait to find out what adventure they will take us on next!
The fouth instalment of the Thursday Next series is my favourite one, the one in which all the plotlines set out earlier are woven together and political satire enters the series in a grand way.In Something Rotten, Thursday returns from the book world to late-1980s England with her two-year-old son, two dodos and the Prince of Denmark, Hamlet, who wishes to see a bit of the world.
As it happens, Hamlet's arrival in the real world poses a bit of a problem, for unbeknownst to Thursday, a fictional character, Yorrick Kaine, has been trying to get himself elected dictator of the British Isles, and he has just launched a vitriolic campaign against all things Danish, including Kierkegaard and Out of Africa.
Have you started the Thursday Next series yet?
If not, put the first book The Eyre Affair on your short list.
I laughed, I cried - I was nearly institutionalized because of the Fforde-induced bipolar syndrome this book caused.It wasn't just me.
Hamlet (various classic fiction characters make grand entrances in all of these books) was also a wreck.
That IS, at least, something.My review probably doesn't make sense.
If you've read these books, which also make no sense and no determinable effort at being serious, you'll actually understand this garbled nonsense.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
With every book I've read in this series, I've said the same thing: this was fun but I doubt I'll continue on with the series.
I'm going to keep reading Thursday Next books because they're absolutely ridiculous and they make me laugh.
This time around, Thursday is back in the real world, where she has to deal with fictional would-be dictators, semi-dead presidents, a husband who may not actually exist, violent cricket matches, 13th century mystics, a perpetually dithering Hamlet, and - most daunting of all - motherhood.
My favorite part was "Avoid the Question Time," which is pretty much what all political interviews and debates actually are but won't admit it.
My father always argued that time was far and away the most valuable commodity we had and that temporal profligacy should be a criminal offence – which kind of makes watching Celebrity Kidney Swap or reading Daphne Farquitt novels a crime straight away."After being disappointed by book #2 and skipping book #3, I loved this one.
Something Rotten had just the right mix of silliness with thoughtful digs at current affairs and contemporary discussions such as the argument about what makes humans human and what gives humans have the right to control other species, or the rights of other groups of humans for that matter.Thursday has returned from the book world and again takes up the pursuit of a shady character that threatens the country.
Book on CD read by Emily Gray.Book four in the Thursday Next fantasy / sci-fi “literary detective” series.
The plots are completely unrealistic, but that’s part of the fun.
Thursday is a strong, independent, resourceful heroine, and the supporting characters – Spike, the vampire, and Stig, the Neanderthal, in particular – are delightfully over-the-top.
It’s fun to read.
Emily Gray does a marvelous job performing the audio version.
She has great pacing and is a skilled voice artist, able to differentiate the many characters.
I love the way she voices Stig and St Zvlkx in this installment.
Her friends at Jurisfiction are not ready for a new Bellman, her son Friday needs a nanny, and 'back home' she's still very much a wanted criminal.Since it never pours but rains, she finds that Yorrick Kaine (the villain from Lost in a Good Book), is about to be elected a dictator for life.
I, however, will be taking an indefinite break from the books.3/5 stars for yet another funny and quotable book from the Thursday Next series.==========================================Review of the 2nd book: Lost in a Good BookReview of the 3rd book: The Well of Lost Plots
I started enjoying it about half way through, and then I came across a passage that made the whole thing worth it:(view spoiler)["Wait!" I cried out.
I've been living inside fiction for too long; sometimes I get this weird feeling that you, me and everything else are just...well, characters in a book or something.""Plainly, that is ridiculous." (hide spoiler)]When I read it, I laughed out loud, and it made me feel like she was looking right at me!
I even had to share the passage with my husband.By the end of the book, I was really enjoying it.
The fate of the world depends on the results of the Superhoop, with help from the cloned Neanderthals wholly owned by Goliath Corporation, now a religion after a year of bad press. Thursday Next is back in the real world after hiding out in the world of unpublished novels. Jasper Fforde books are wonderfully crazy .
Two years have passed and Thursday is still working in Jurisfiction and hunting the Minotaur, but she longs to return to the real world and find Landen, previously eradicated by the Goliath Corporation.
Her son Friday is now twoShe returns to Swindon with Hamlet, who wants to see what the real world is like and stays with her mother and father.
Along with the Goliath Corporation planning to become a religion to avoid the prophecy that they are doomed to fail, and that Thursday has to get the Swindon Mallets to win the 1988 Croquet Superhoop to avoid the end of the world, her biggest problem is getting childcare.Not quite as good as the previous one the the series, it didn't seem to have the focus of the last.
Anyone who can turn croquet into a full-contact sport and make me want to watch it has to be a genius right?I also can’t believe it took me until almost 12 hours later to finally connect the title to most of the story, as in hey this story has a lot about Hamlet in it and the quote “Something is rotten in the state of Denmark” even appears!
Thanks Fforde for reminding me I’m just another cog in the human machine.
Nevertheless I found it easy to understand as events follow their own internal logic.The bad people were vanquished, the good people won (but not without cost), the funny characters amused, and the dodos waddled in occasionally to do their dodo thing.By the end of the book the major story lines were resolved in ways that were both dramatic and humorous, while enough minor questions were left open to allow for further adventures.A very satisfying read.
I will certainly read the next one.BTW, I thought the Brought-Vincent-Norton motorcycle factory was a Triumph.
This was just okay for me. There was so much going on. The author kept it reigned in, but it was like a jumbo zig zag. Usually I like busy, so I'm not sure why this rubbed me the wrong way. There was also a fair amount of repetition which caused eye rolling....not excessive eye rolling...just basic eye rolling.I liked Thurdsay. She was great. I also liked Hamlet. He seemed like the comic relief. Everything else was just okay.
I started this series actually with the second book, because we read it at an English course at University.
Then I read the first book in German and just some time ago after years the third one again in English.
I didn’t want to wait so long again, so I directly started the fourth book.I liked this one even better than the third, even though there was less book jumping and literature involved (except for Hamlet).
Like the political debates, where the participants get points for “who avoids to answer the question best” etc.For me personally this would be a good end of the series, but as it is not, I already bought the next one to read it soon.
Ci sono io che quando mi sento di aver avuto un'idea geniale è perché sono riuscita a portare la tazza del tè con il piattino dei biscotti sopra per fare un viaggio solo..... E poi c'è Jasper Fforde che fa parlare Friday in Lorem Ipsum :DNiente, vado a prendere lo straccio perché la mia idea geniale non si è poi rivelatoatanto tale..
So crazy it's really funny. And in the end most things are sort of tied up, so I can stop reading this series. Or will I? ;)
Easily the best one so far....the various plot lines come together, and a couple things are even resolved! Not that this will make things any less hectic in the literary world...after all, what is going to happen when Ophelia finds out about Hamlet's affair with Lady Hamilton?????
Her husband and one true love, Landon, is eradicated - Chronoguard in the real world went back in time and killed him when he was just 2-years-old, winking him out of existence.She's been hiding out in Bookworld to save her son and so that she survived her pregnancy (a lot of people in the real world want her dead) but she knows it's time to face the music.
So Thursday, Friday, Hamlet, and Thursday's pet dodos start on their quest to recover Landon.This book is very hard for me to summarize or describe.
It involves the "real people" such as Thursday, her parents, her aunt and uncle, her dodos (extinct pets are all the rage!) and her son Friday.
Beyond this surreal alternate reality surface is that mirror held up to nature for those who have "drunk ink," as it were.In case you "had left vnſeene a wonderfull peece of worke" known as Thursday Next, allow me to explain how much she fits in with the thousands and thousands of inspired characters derived from your plays.
Returning to her home world to find, as the title suggests, things rotten in Swindon, she takes on as many of these burdens as she can manage, never being crushed by the responsibility nor the silly wordplay.
Once again the multiple threads reminded me of the plate spinners from the old variety acts.Time has moved on and Thursday exits the Bookworld to reappear in the real world.
Faced with trying to sort out her bank overdraft she tries to regain her old job in SpecOps. Time has progressed but I never feel that Thursday has continued to develop past the first couple of books.There is mayhem aplenty in both worlds, and at times the plots do enter into the fantastical, so sometimes you do have to ignore certain things and just go with the flow.
As much as I enjoy the Bookworld and Jurisfiction, I prefer the wacky world of Spec Ops and Swindon, so I was rather pleased when this started with Thursday's decision to return to the real world.
And I was thrilled when this featured large amounts of crossover between the two worlds, with characters from the Bookworld coming to babysit or just hang out and Thursday occasionally still jumping into the Bookworld.
But most of all, I loved that Landen finally returned.
And that the Granny Next threads were finally pulled together, though I guessed at the outcome long ago.
So yeah.
TN4: I enjoyed it less than the first three -- it was a 'helicopter', a lot of unrelated parts moving in synchrony, that yet somehow seem to get the story from point A to point B. However, we get a few answers! (Of course, it would be a spoiler to give them all away. But, gingham? Really?) It has a lot to recommend it to the literophile, especially fans of the Revernd Dodgson (I really hope I spelled his name correctly. Oh, wait -- I'm on the Internet!
Onvan : Something Rotten (Thursday Next, #4) - Nevisande : Jasper Fforde - ISBN : 014303541X - ISBN13 : 9780143035411 - Dar 385 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2004
It's two years after the events of the previous book, and Thursday is back in the real world, with her son, Friday, and the two dodos, Pickwick and Alan, in tow.
Caught up in political machinations, gaining a stalker and a would-be assassin, and trying to find a babysitter while ensuring a prophecy is fulfilled, handling occasional Bookworld problems, and dealing with her job back at SpecOps, Thursday is beset from all sides.I don't usually include quotations in my reviews, but this just made me laugh so hard, I couldn't resist:I was woken by Pickwick wanting to be let out, and Alan wanting to be let in.
Now he turns that on its head.Thursday, along with her young child Friday, decides it is time to leave the Bookworld behind and return to the real world, despite the danger this poses from the all powerful Goliath corporation.
All of these are his stock in trade and he uses them to great effect here.This was for me a little weaker than the first three books, possibly because now back in Thursday's world is a little more mundane than seeing works of literature from the inside but there are still plenty of laughs to be had and the various plot strands will keep you guessing
Happily, Mr. Fforde delivers a light, entertaining novel that offers a tangled pile of subplots all eventually resolved by his dependably resilient heroine, Thursday Next. She makes her labyrinthine way through time, reality, fiction as an alternative dimension, and child-rearing. And if you like hilarious word play and turns of phrase spot-on that you'd NEVER have thought up on your own, this is the place for you.Jasper is as good as Woodhouse for a reliable, fun read. Always recommended no matter which dimension you find yourself in.
An especially amusing read for fans of Shakespeare. Per Fforde's usual style, it feels like he is leading you on a wild dodo hunt through Swindon, but ties all of your questions up in a pretty little bow, even the ones you did not know you had. This one had a particularly emotional ending for me, but I am never disappointed by the subtle humor in his work.
I don’t get half the literary references in this series but it’s still very entertaining. The third one was a bit disappointing but Something Rotten more than made up for it with a clear outlined plot and fantastic ending.
The first two books in this series are absolutely awesome. This one and the one before it were a STRUGGLE to get through. Too many ideas crammed into the story to the point were I was uninterested in any of them.
