https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333341.The_Dwelling_Place
Catherine Cookson has recently become one of my favorite authors.
Cookson creates powerfully touching novels of love and overcoming the odds, two things that I greatly enjoy reading about.
The Dwelling place is such a novel.
It's touching and very interesting plot wise.
I recommend it to those who LOVE historical fiction and perhaps those who like not having the difficulty of something like Jane Austen.
What I'm getting at is that it's pretty straightforward.Anyways, there is a film adaptation which I highly recommend!
That's another thing I like about Cookson's novels; I can usually watch a movie after reading one of them.
This is my favourite Catherine Cookson novel, I've read quite a few over the years.
Catherine Cookson was certainly a prolific writer of historical ficton set in England during the 1800's.In this book Cissie Brodie at the age of fifteen is left to care for her numerous siblings when her parents die.
A TV series The Dwelling Place (1994) was made based on this book.From IMDb:Set in the 1830's, the film tells the story of 16-year-old Cissie Brodie after the death of parents, and the repossession of the family home. She finds a barren place to live and care for her younger brothers and sisters with the help of Matthew, a local carpenter, but her life becomes complicated when the aristocratic Fischel family take an unwelcome interest.
I honestly had no idea that I would fall in love with this book when I randomly picked it from the library shelves. But I did fall in love with this story. It's both simple, yet thought-provoking. It's both beautiful and horrible. And I really, really liked it and found it actually quite difficult to put down, but now I'm hard-pressed to find the right things to say about my reading experience.If interested, you can find my short thoughts HERE.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]The one with the happy ending!
Great story, and amazing female MC!
I'm a little mixed in my opinion of it.
I will say it had my undivided attention so for engrossing reading I have to give it 4 stars.
So why do I say its "strange".
So why do I say its "strange".
I don't want to give a spoiler review so I won't say WHAT that far fetched strangeness WAS; but suffice it to say this heroine had guts, determination and a whole lot of forgiveness in her heart.
Between her and her puppet brother, the heroine's life just about isn't worth living.
Youll have to read it and find out.
Read this book in the 70's when I was a teenager, recently re-read it and now I remember why it has always been in the back of my mind as a great story.
Catherine Cookson brings to life Cissie and the Brodie family, struggling to survive against all odds as only an author who has experienced hardships and come from the bottom up can.
I always feel that Catherine Cookson "knows what makes people tick".
The dialect of the common people in that part of England during that era is fun to read.
I think I read this book for the first time when I was a middle teenager & I still have the worn out paperback copy with the torn cover. I have read it many times since & have read all of Catherine Cookson's books but none stayed with me as this one did...
So there's Cissie and her brood, Matthew the Wheelwright, and then Lord Fischel and his mansion and awful (adult) children, Clive and Isabelle.
Isabelle is about as evil as a villain can be.This is definitely for adults, because there is a violent and traumatic rape (but I didn't even realize it was a rape until there were hints and I had to go back and re-read it; the scene itself isn't graphic) central to the plot.I could relate to the reader who gave it 4 stars because it's so engrossing, but ultimately it's so appalling that I can't in good conscience recommend it to anybody unless they like the "survival on the fells" sort of plot enough to endure the icky stuff.
Love my Cookson books. I'm not often a fan of the happy sappy ending but this one made me happy :) Lots of likable characters; even the characters we were supposed to hate were likable in a way...sometimes you like to hate someone. I like a story that covers years and years and this one did it very well.
I have watched the mini-series a few times before reading the book itself, but I would say, both are are worthy one's attention.
I loved both the book and the series.
BUT the series are different than the book, one leaves with a different impression at the end of it.
I would recommend to read the book first.
I think Cissie did not really love him, but it was her teenage first romantic touch, and the situation they were in.
She loved Cissie truly and never pressed her with his presence and desires, never came whining to her, as Matthew did many times.
(I also believe this will appeal appeals to women rather than to men) There is nothing humorous or lighthearted about a tale of a poor working class family of nine siblings, orphaned and relying on the eldest sister to keep them all together.
Cissie Brodie's character is admirable compared to many Victorian women we read in classics.
I thought it was well written tale of a woman (by the end of the novel is much older unlike in the movie) of strength and impeccable character who overcomes ALL obstacles.I'd also like to read "Feathers In The Fire" by the same author which also seems to be a different book.
This was a sweeping tale of Cissie and all of the hardships, tragedies, and roadblocks she faced because she wanted to keep her brothers & sisters together with her after her parents died.
The incidences of child labor including 7-yr.-olds in mines up to 14 hours a day and 5-yr-old boys as chimney sweeps up to 12 hours a day are unimaginable to Americans in the 21st Century.
As Cissie says towards the end of the book, all of the tragedies began because people were hungry.
Aside from her brothers & sisters this book's characters include Matthew the wheelwright, the nearby lord & his family, the parson, and many local villagers.
Unfortunately I watched the movie that was based on this book right before reading the book.
I kept seeing the movie in my mind as I read and I already knew to expect (or so I thought)and so I wasn't able to really get into the story.
The movie was very close to the book, except for the last few chapters.
I'm glad that the ending of the book went in a different direction.
I found that part most interesting of all because I didn't know what to expect at the end.
Read the book, then see the movie!
SPOILER ALERT - This book includes a rape.Catherine Cookson wrote so many books, sometimes they are a bit hokey, but I liked most of this book except for one very large thing. I don't believe that a rape victim would ever fall in love with their rapist. Because of this, I cannot give it a higher rating, although I liked most of the characters and admired the heroine Cissie's strength and fortitude immensely.
Started off ok, as expected in typical Catherine Cookson style, usual ups and downs, earthy descriptions, hardship, hard working people making the best of things, class tensions and strife...and then became distasteful in ways that I found appalling, particularly in the choice made by the female protagonist at the end.
Did anybody think it was weird that she stayed with the rapist? or that they had an understanding I mean, although in the movie I kinda understood but idk I was like really? She stay with the rapist!? Still liked it though lol
This is one of my all time favourite reads. I read it when I was a teenager.I need to re-read it and experience the magic.Cissie Brodie's character was endearing and as a teenager, I think a bit of her responsibility and endurance rubbed off on me.
Utterly disgusting outcome.
Very well written. Easy to read but very hard to put down.
This book has an absolutely terrible, super damaging philosophy of love and sex, and I threw it in the garbage.
It might be the only book I've ever thrown in the garbage, and I have no regrets.
The ending (and the relationships between Cissie and everyone else, but especially the conclusion) is brutal.
(view spoiler)[ I just think, in what world is it okay to say anything along the lines of 'she had always had feelings for her rapist and belonged to him and everything good in her life was because of him, in the end' with NO INDICATION that she has ever forgiven him or worked through that trauma or anything like that?
The tag line on the front of the book says "Britain's Best-Loved Storyteller" and that is just what the author is -- an incredible storyteller that keeps the reader engaged until the very end.This story revolves around Cissy Brodie, a 15 year old girl who is left to care for her numerous siblings when her parents die.
Cissy is determined to keep the family together and so, sets out to create a "dwelling place" from a cave on the fells.It is a story of incredible hardship and how little hope there was for people like this family due to the class differences.
I have read this author in the past. It was written in the 1970's. I have read some of her other books and never been disappointed. Her stories are usually set in Great Britain in the 1800's with the class system that existed at the time. The young girl and her younger siblings are left alone to fend for themselves when both parents die of Cholera. They end up homeless, make a shelter that becomes home to keep from going to the workhouse.
I first read "The Dwellings Place " many years ago. I loved the book and never forgot about it over the years. IWas looking for a good book to read last week and thought about Catherine Cookson's books and decided to reread "The Dwelling Place". This book held my interest as it did so many years ago. I love the book and it will always be on the top of my favorites.
A great story that really reads as a non-fiction novel. During that time in history this really does portray how very difficult and downtrodden the underclass was and how children were used in dangerous work. A masterful read.
It's been a while since I read A Catherine Cookson book and I wasn't sure about it at the beginning because my preferred books are thrillers, but I really enjoyed it. She really is the best at writing about overcoming hardship.
Good ol' Catherine Cookson. I enjoyed reading this. A lovely story, not too taxing on the brain, set in the mid-1800's.
I read this book 30 years ago and luckily it's as good as I remembered. An excellent book. 5 stars.
Awesome book. Really good.
