https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22609317-luckiest-girl-alive
When a book becomes one of the most-read books of the week/month on Goodreads but maintains a barely respectable average rating of 3.6, there are usually one of two reasons for it: 1) The book is an objectively well-written, pretentious masterpiece that everyone thinks they should read but no one really likes.Or 2) Some marketing guru thought it would be a good idea to - wrongly - pitch the book as the next Hunger Games, Harry Potter, Gone Girl...
Amy Dunne is so great because there's grains of truth in her insanity (we know all about the "cool girl"); Ani FaNelli, on the other hand, is just mindlessly ranting to demonstrate her own inner crazy-bitchness.
“She didn’t have anything in her teeth.”I took my time leaning over the table, slurped my wine from the rim to spare my white jeans. Never fuck with a rich white bitch and her white jeans. “Not in her teeth. Up her ass, on the other hand . . .”Luke’s laugh was the standing ovation. He shook his head, impressed. “You can be pretty vicious, you know?” This book was sold with a blurb as being "for fans of Gone Girl." With all due respect, there is no comparison. It is more The Devil Meets Prada or
As you can see, there is no comparison as to whose words are far more effective.This book dealt with some very difficult issues, issues like rape and eating disorders, but it didn't deal with them well.
A good book that deals with these issue tell the story of the character--the victim---in such a way as to make the reader empathize with what they have gone through.
However the character deals with their past, be it downright "I'm going to pretend it never happened" to "I can't stop thinking about it.
not really, although it does share some qualities with that book in centering around a calculating and manipulative female lead, with several twists and reveals along the way, as well as an explication of knoll's version of "the cool girl." however, unlike Gone Girl, where the more we know about amy dunne the less likable she is, here it's the complete opposite and the character becomes more sympathetic as the story unfolds.and i like antiheroes more than empathy.i suppose here is where i am supposed to use the character's name, but it is so spectacularly bad.
But remember, when a book has controversial, disagreeing ratings, often it’s something to look forward to.
(My way of promoting the book despite myself.)  I am a very principled reader in such a way that I stick to my no dnf rule.
It has been very easy to uphold this attitude on reading because of all the books I’ve read, I could only count with my fingers those that I wanted to dnf.
*	The story, told in the POV of the 28 year old, indifferent, socialite wannabe TiFAni.
(view spoiler)[ involving GOT caliber murder that involves 14 year old teens!
But, when I noticed this author had a new release coming up soon, I thought I’d go back and give this book a second look.
Admittedly, Ani is not the warmest person, especially in the beginning, which makes it hard to sympathize with her.
I admit I did feel guilty for being too hard on Ani in the beginning, did soften once I knew more about her, and even cheered for her after she made some very tough personal decisions about her life.
With all the comparisons this has received to Gillian Flynn's books, I was expecting a well-written, twisted thriller.
Way too many damn similes) and horrible, boring characters.
And not horrible in the way that you love how horrible they are, but just...
Also, the plot was basically nothingness until the last third of the book.
The only redeeming quality for me was when it is finally revealed what TifAni (worst name ever btw) went through in her "dark past".
As a big reveal it wasn't all that special, but I did enjoy reading those scenes, so it wasn't a complete waste of time.
Got to the halfway mark, realized I didn't really feel like reading about rich, white people problems. Therefore, DNF.
I tried to get into this book. I truly did, but couldn't stand the authors writing style or the main character.
Somewhere between 3 and 3.5 stars.Well, I think it had been a few days since I saw a book compared to  Gone Girl  so thankfully we didn't lose a step. Truthfully, though, other than the fact that both books have the word "Girl" in their title, I don't know what they have in common, so maybe someone else can explain the need to compare the two.Ani FaNelli finally has it all. She's engaged to a gorgeous, wealthy man from a notable family. He makes her feel safe and secure, and allows her to buy th
Truthfully, though, other than the fact that both books have the word "Girl" in their title, I don't know what they have in common, so maybe someone else can explain the need to compare the two.Ani FaNelli finally has it all.
There was some suspense, as I wanted to know how Ani's secrets, and how Knoll was going to resolve everything.

"Luckiest Girl Alive" by Jessica Knoll was one of my favorite novels I read last year.
The book's protagonist, Ani might come off as alluring and confident to her fiancée, Luke and to her flashy co-workers, but underneath her glossy sheen is a woman internally wrestling with past demons.
During Ani's teenage years, she endured a handful of traumas.
Ani does everything in power to be the "perfect woman" but the past has other plans.
Jessica Knoll handles the sensitive subject matter with absolute precision.
It's hard to believe this is Knoll's first novel.
A must-read.
Now, let me explain to you why you need to pre-order (or, depending on the date you're reading this, go pick up) this book.
Reason Number One you need to get this book: Ani. The grown-up version of our narrator.
Reason Number Two you need to get this book: TifAni. The 14-year old version of our narrator.
Reason Number Three you need to get this book: You will think you know what's coming.
Every cliche I expected, it was like she was laughing at me.
I'm famous (well, "famous" is probably strong) for completing nearly every book I start.
So, obviously I end up reading some bad books.
Recently I was having a GoodReads conversation with my friend Amy, who had just stopped reading a book, and I started to rethink my position.
However, this is a perfect example of way sometimes you have to give what seems like a book that is not for you a fighting chance.Our heroine, TifAni (yep, I know some people would have stopped right there) is trying very hard to live the dream in NYC.
I went into this novel expecting a dark and twisty mystery but it’s actually just a girl bitching about husbands and life.
We were shown the life of Ani as an adult and as a teenager and in both of those timelines the characters were eithera.) talking about sexb.) having sexTHAT’S IT and I was just wondering what the point of this novel is.
The hype (propaganda) surrounding this and all the comparisons to Gillian Flynn, I was really expecting a lot from this but it just turned out to be some long and pointless view into Ani's sexual life.
2.5 stars Entertaining, but this one tackles a few too many topics (view spoiler)[new girl trying to fit in, gang rape of a 14-year-old, physical abuse, is the wealthy fiancé the right relationship, superficial mother, mass shooting at high school, career maneuverings, etc, etc (hide spoiler)] and doesn't really resolve any of them in a satisfactory manner.
Liked the arch narrative voice (even with the over-emphasis on material goods...we get it, she's seeking security) but I think this needed more cohesion and streamlining, as well as better pacing and build-up of tension in the second half.
So go with the pan-seared sole and snap that menu shut before you start eye-sexing the penne alla vodka.” LoLo, my boss, had underlined the words “eye-sexing” and written, “Hilarious.” (c)Q:I gushed, “That would be such a help, Eleanor,” and bared my recently whitened teeth.
Clifford, who couldn’t leave the phones unattended, forwarded it to Eleanor asking her to bring him one, plus a coffee with enough milk that it turned the color of a camel.
Eleanor happened to be in a meeting, and by the time she read the e-mail, the cookies were gone.
This contrasts from meek to bitch allows for some deeper human understanding though --(so I did understood the value for the situations presented to us in the storytelling) Things I was 'most' interested in:I wanted to know about the nightmare from Ani's teen yearsI wanted to know more about Ani's relationship with her favorite teacher when she was in High SchoolI wanted to know more about the man Ani was engaged to as an adultI wanted to know what choices Ani was going to make as an adult.The suspense storytelling was built effectively -- There comes a point in the novel --where you can't stop reading --You're hooked!Congrats to Jessical Knoll for a GIRL GRIPPING book!
Rebobinar aquele filme, reressar àquela agonia, NÃO !!!Antes mergulhar na paz podre do Silêncio.Porém, devagar devagarinho, a Verdade lá vai emergindo com passos curtos mas determinados, até consumar a merecida Justiça!!!..."A Verdade vem sempre ao de cima" - não é o que se diz?!E é nesse desabrochar, nessa escalada íngreme da Verdade, que esta leitura ganha interesse e dimensão!!!...Ao escrever sobre Ani e a sua história, a autora escreve também sobre si mesma.Quando jovem, Jessica Knoll foi vítima de agressões sexuais e, tal como Ani, também ela optou pelo caminho da dor muda.
Por isso, a concepção desta história, foi simultaneamente, uma aliviante catarse, o que aliás até se comprova no artigo onde a autora expõe arrojadamente, o seu segredo reprimido:https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/30/bo...Há por aí muitas Anis , e histórias assim são a Voz Colectiva dos seus Silêncios de Dor - são 5 estrelas bem merecidas!!!
[4.5 Stars]ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS!!!! Seriously, so good! I had to take off half a star because there is this one scene where the main character asks someone for help and the person says "I'm not qualified to answer that" and walks away and I am not okay with the author writing that scene like that. Other than that, this was amazing!Triggers Warnings: Depression, Anxiety, Eating Disorders, Bullying, Sexual Assault
Woah that was pretty crazy! Such an interesting story.
From the first few pages I knew I wouldn't like Ani. She was a complete bitch and a half.
Reading a book with characters like this is hard for me.
Because there were no good characters, I was so disinterested, I really did not give a flying feck about the story.
Jessica Knoll kept dangling this super shocking secretive twist in front of me and it drove me insane.
Then the twist wasn't even that good and I was so annoyed.
The only thing that kept me reading the book was to see what would happen.
★★★★The lingering affects of trauma...that is the theme of this novel. I could go into detail about the parallel storylines, the timeframes, and the relationship dynamics featured here, but it doesn't change the devastating portrait of a woman who grew up broken, unbelieved, invalidated, and judged. It's hard to heal under those circumstances, and the consequences sadly speak for themselves. Jessica Knoll's debut novel, Luckiest Girl Alive is a character-driven novel that allows readers to get t
But I for one really liked her character and was less impressed with the behavior and thought-processes of those around her.
Ms. Knoll's incorporation of realistic fiction, suspense, mystery, and complexity make this novel incredibly engaging from start to finish.
Speaking of finishes, I must note that I was expecting a big twist or mind-boggling revelation at the end (likely due to the fanfare), but this wasn't the case.
Growing up I thought faith was about believing Jesus died for us and that if I held on to that, I'd get to meet him when I died too.
But faith doesn't mean that to me anymore.
In the ironically titled Luckiest Girl Alive we meet Ani Fanelli, a twenty-something who is all about appearances, which does not seem so much different from who she was as a teenager, when she was all about getting in with the cool kids.
The largest positive in the book is in showing not only how Ani found herself in an untenable position as a teen, but in illuminating both her thought process and the milieu in which she existed as she struggled to cope with the aftermath.
But I was never engaged enough with Ani to feel the love.
If all you need is a surface read, The Luckiest Girl Alive will certainly serve.
However, the juxtaposition between her old life and new was fairly amateurishly handled, and while Knoll tried to paint the picture of “girl with rough past makes it big,” the main character, Ani, really came off as whiny and spoiled and eye-roll-promptingly annoying.
With that in mind, this one would have been much better if she’d been able to carry that tone throughout because, in a lot of ways, TifAni’s voice was more mature than Ani’s, a regression in tone that irked me to no end, proffered only a snarky tone that often missed the mark and whininess that made her character the utmost annoying and hard to read, let alone like.
While it is compared to Gone Girl, I did not get that vibe, which is not necessarily a bad thing.
For me it was more a darker Liane Moriarty than Gillian Flynn, but as I said above, that's not necessarily a bad thing.I received this copy in a Goodreads giveaway and have written what I think is a fair and fitting review.
Thanks!This review would not be complete if I did not address that I recently read that the truly sad part of this book, the violent sexual abuse, is based on the author's real experiences.
I still hate the book and the characters. But I'm willing to admit that I was bitchy and did something that I normally don't do. And that is blaming the victim. Thank you for all the nice people who discussed the book in the comments area. Not everyone who disagrees with you is a troll. ♥
Ultimately I could not reconcile the mashup of genres enough to fully enjoy the novel, but that she kept me reading it at all...and compelled me to almost give it 3 stars, is a minor miracle (ok, scoff all you want, all you who know me well enough that I'd never abandon a book, but the first 10% severely tested my patience).
Then, reverting back to the present, not only is Ani preparing for her wedding, she's nervous about her participation in an upcoming documentary (view spoiler)[where it's revealed her school is visited by a Columbine-like tragedy...which is indirectly tied to TifAni's rape.
Then Jessica Knoll did her job), a middle-class girl living in a poor neighborhood in Philadelphia who, through unusual circumstances and luck, got herself enrolled in the prestigious Bradley School.
Now, a documentary crew is making a movie about the Incident and what is being called "the Bradley Five" and they want to interview Ani to get her side of the story.
Gone Girl is the Oscar de la Renta cerulean gowns, The Girl on the Train is the Yves St. Laurent cerulean military jackets, and Luckiest Girl Alive is the lumpy blue sweater that Andy fished out of some clearance bin.
How did this nightmare end up with an average rating of four stars???
About the only thing I liked about the book was that I found TifAni (and that name fit her so perfectly - pretentious, stupid, gullible - the name says it all) was an unreliable narrator.
Which meant that the ending, where she wants you to believe she wasn't part of what went down, is very likely untrue.
It would have been very like TifAni to betray her friends even in those final moments.You can see my mini review at All About Romance to see more of what I thought of the novel.
This was not something I would have picked up on my own thanks to its cheesy cover, so many thanks to the couple of GR friends I have who introduced me to it!
I don't know how that works...) At least in this case it's much more warranted.I liked both sides of Luckiest Girl Alive: the rich, gossipy, fashion-magazine world and the dark high school memories.
Highly recommended for anyone who's looking for a female character with some bite and an above-averagely written high school/domestic/whatever you call it thriller.
And try not to judge it by its cover!
