https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29925.Gods_and_Generals
For those who may not know, Jeff Shaara is the son of Michael Shaara who wrote The Killer Angels.
Without that great book, there would be no Gods and Generals, or the many other books Jeff has written since this first one.
It’s been too long since reading The Killer Angels for me to judge.
I just know that the story he created here in Gods and Generals is very good.
Like The Killer Angels, it is a character driven story, wholly based on the detailed facts of our country’s Civil War. What’s so good about these books is the getting to know the soldiers.
Dislike. A complete and total dislike. The description was good. The characters were good. The story line was fine. Just. Don't. Like. It.That's all I have to say...........
Now, with this book coming to top off my school year, I must say history is a whole lot more complicated then I thought.The story begins in 1858 (57???
These four men and their experiences in the Civil War form the main story.
I knew most of the battle's outcomes due to reading "Stonewall Jackson: a portrait of a soldier," right before reading "Gods and Generals." But all the same, the masterful way Shaara wove the story...It was amazing.
One of the most wonderful books on the main Civil War battles I've read in a long time.
A Civil War book, fictionalizing several different sectors of society. Set mostly in the time it seemed possible the South would actually win the war.Not bad, but I'm not entirely convinced of the historiosity.
I'm going to quote the words of Jason Mraz and say: " I won't give up on us God knows I'm tough enough We've got a lot to learn God knows we're worth it."Well it turns out I'm not tough enough and this book wasn't worth it. Oh, and I'm totally giving up on us. Rating:  2.75 stars This book is the story of 4 generals (or maybe more. I seriously don't know) and what they went through during the Civil war.Seems exciting enough. The problem is I don't read historical fiction but this book was so ch
Why 2.75 stars?The good:*The writing was pretty great.*I liked some of the characters and understood their decisions regarding which side they supported: North or South.*The character's stories, background and difference in faith was enjoyable to read about.The bad:*Description, description and did I mention the description?*I liked the characters but I didn't LIKE the characters.*War startegies and politics.
So hard to understand.*Slow P..A...C....EIf you like politics and historical fiction, you will really like this book.Maybe when I'm wiser and older, I will finish reading it and like it.Probably not: about being wiser and finishing the book
The first in the epic father/son Civil War trilogy (the next one is The Killer Angels by Jeff's father Michael Shaara, followed by Jeff's sequel The Last Full Measure).
This was Jeff's first book, and it must have been intimidating writing a prequel to his father's book, which had won the Pulitzer prize and been made into the astonishingly good film, Gettysburg.But Jeff rose to the challenge admirably and delivered a book similar in tone to his father's and carefully maintaining the air of tragedy that his father achieved in The Killer Angels.
For those who are new, Gods and Generals starts at the beginning of the American Civil War and follows four of the major commanders through the first three years of the war.
This book takes a unique perspective leading up to the Civil War, introducing us to the notable historical figures in that confrontation.
Mr. Shaara shares with the reader, through excellent characterization and dialogue why the Civil war was so important to these men.
The author manages to bring to life the years leading up to the Civil War. Seemingly historically accurate, this book answered many of my questions about why this battle even happened.
Obviously, the dialogue and innermost thoughts expressed by the “characters” in this book are speculation but the book did serve it’s purpose for me.
I really don't know what happened with Jeff Shaara from this book to his second attempt, The Last Full Measure, but I enjoyed this book more.
There is still the rambling on, and the writing still has the same irritating problems, but not to the same extent as Measure.
I still enjoy the historic events told in a comprehensible way; it fulfills my need to understand the order in which things happened.
I must say, I could not read two pages where he goes on about the death of General Jackson, it is just too heart-wrenching.
All in all, a much better read than his second novel.
I like historical fiction and picked up this book for that reason. However, it seems less like fiction and more like military history. This book seemed to me to be endless descriptions of what every general on both sides was doing during the Civil War--and not the whole Civil War, but just until 1863. This is the first book by either of the Shaaras that I have read, and I won't read another. Obviously, I didn't know what I was getting into because I know he is very well regarded by many people.
One of the reasons I’ve been reading this trilogy – starting with The Killer Angels – is to really be able to wrap my head around this war.
Another book that I’ve read earlier in the year helped answer some of my questions: John Jake’s North and South, a fictional account of the reality of our country, the division of opinions and perspectives.
I do like these Shaara books because they (father and son) narrate these events in story form.
I’ve read a handful of Civil War material over the past year, and Gods and Generals ranks high.
When my history professor gave me a list of books to choose from to read for his Civil War class, I chose this one on impulse.
While I'm sure that was true of some, Sharra portrays the Southern Generals as fighting for their homeland, for their families, and as unwilling to turn their weapons against their own homes.
Reading this book, regardless of the cause that the politicians chose on either side, I can easily believe that I myself would have made the same decisions as the Southern men did when they were deciding where their loyalties belonged.
I felt so connected to all of the characters, and I found myself really conflicted on whether I wanted the Union or the confederates to win the war- the book presented the generals as real people, so it did a good job of looking at both sides of the story.
One other small complaint, sometimes it was easy for me to mix the characters up and forget who was on the confederate side and who was fighting for the union- so I had to refresh my memory a few times (I don't know my history as well as I should!)
There is very little I can say about this book that hasn't already been said.
Unfortunately for me I fall into the latter category.The book is just ok...considering the subject matter at hand it should have been great.
By confining himself to copying his father's style, the book never flows, drama never builds, characters are never rounded out.Switching from one character's point of view to anothers can be a great way of building suspense and developing a story (see GRRM's mastery of this craft), here though, the switching of perspective (which is probably the best way to tell this story) just doesn't work.I now find myself at a crossroads...The Killer Angels (by Michael) is at home on the shelf and will surely be read, but what of the last in the series (again by Jeff)...
Read this for the third time, as my book club selection.
I like how the Civil War is portrayed through the eyes of four commanders, two from the north and two from the south.
Reading critically now as a published writer, it’s not without its faults.
Point of view issues abound, some parts slow down for pages, the battle scenes are hard to follow, some of what is portrayed as fact appears contrived and overly emotional.
There is also a decided sympathetic slant toward the south, and I would have preferred less bias and more accuracy.
And yet, all in all, it works and deserves the attention of any reader of Civil War history.
The author's father was named Michael Shaara and wrote "The Killer Angels" which was a Pulitzer Prize winning novel that was made into the movie "Gettysburg".
Admittedly, "The Killer Angels" is a historical fiction novel that covers 3 days while the son had to cover several years of the Civil War. This was not easy for that writing style.
Still the book is an acceptable prequal to the "Killer Angels" if you enjoyed the characters and I have purchased but not yet read his sequal to "Killer Angels" and his novels on the Mexican-American War and the Revolutionary War.
Jeff Shaara simply could not pull off what his father accomplished.
I'm sure Mr. Shaara is a smart historian of sorts, but as a writer it just doesn't give the proper payload.
Perhaps he simply tried to cram too much in the lead-up to the Battle at Gettysburg, unlike his father who concentrated all of his attention and efforts on just those three historic days?
Either way, the writing is simply annoying (too many "..."s throughout), and the only thing interesting is the sprinkling of Jeff Shaara's father's lines within the "Gods and Generals".
Apart from that, just stick to what's good - "The Killer Angels".
Corny dialogue, very stilted. This book and the series of three novels about the Civil War was highly recommended, so I was very disappointed.I couldn't even finish it. I remembered why I really dislike so many historical novels--they try too hard and sound like a low budget movie.
But even more than that, you probably can make the argument that his strongest character is Jackson, in large part because he was such uniquely strange and heroic figure, but there was a long stretch of the book in which he didn't have any chapters from his point of view.And I get why he had Chamberlain as one of his main characters because he is the main person through which we see the Battle of Fredericksburg, he isn't a general so we get to see a lower down officer's perspective, and then of course it is building up to his crucial role in The Killer Angels, but he didn't fight at Chancellorsville, and hardly did at Antietam.
I also enjoyed reading this book because it was about the American Civil War, which I enjoy learning about.
The book does get long and boring in the beginning and middle sections, but when the major battles begin, the book gets very interesting.Plot Summary:The plot of the book starts before the Civil War begins.
They end up fighting major battles like First and Second Manassas, Antietam, Fredericksburg, and finally Chancellorsville.
Hancock is a Brigadier General for the Federal Army.
Jackson is a Brigadier General for the Confederate Army.
Setting:This book takes place in late 1850’s to the end of the Battle of Chancellorsville in 1863.
Those who enjoy history or the Civil War would like this book.
Jeff Shaara is the son of Michael Shaara, who wrote the superb book "The Killer Angels" about the Battle of Gettysburg.
"Gods and Generals" is a prequel to that book, covering the lead-up to the Civil War, plus the first two years of the war.
The book adopts the same approach as "The Killer Angels," recounting events from the perspective of several key figures, in this case primarily Lee, Hancock, Jackson, and Chamberlain.I found this a very good book, albeit grim reading.
Since I know less about the Civil War than I would like, it had the added bonus of being educational.
It is very difficult to tell a story through the eyes of people who really lived, people with whom the reader is likely quite familiar.
Shaara does it brilliantly.
Gods and Generals was written as the prequel to Shaara's father, Michael Shaara's bestselling The Killer Angels.
Jeff's storytelling is equal to, if not better than his father's.As a lover of history, I was engrossed in this book from page one.
The characters and settings were so well presented I felt I could "see" and "hear" everything in the story.
It was one of those books that I wished would never end.
I enjoyed this book but you really have to have a mind that can visualize the military strategy they speak of to fully grasp what is happening. The maps the author provides definitely help.
Jeff Shaara has a gift. Following in his father’s footsteps (“The Killer Angels,” Michael Shaara’s 1975 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction), “Gods and Generals” is the prequel to the Battle of Gettysburg, following Lee, Jackson, Hancock and Chamberlain in their early years, before Lincoln’s election and the succession of the states. It makes today’s political turmoil look like kid’s stuff. It’s a robust portrait of the early years of the war, interconnecting the paths that brought these men together at the crossroads of history. If you’re a Shaara fan, you read this one a long time ago.
That's a bit of hyperbole, of course, but too often the Civil War can come off like any other piece of history if not approached correctly: it seems old, dry, lifeless, and devoid of personality.It is that bankruptcy in treatment that makes Jeff Shaara's Gods and Generals such a pleasure to read.
If you have a bit of free-time set aside, a willingness to adopt an unorthodox writing style, and want to become the closest of confidants with the men pulling the levers guiding the most crucial conflict in American history, then I will be pointing you to Gods and Generals
Upon Michaels’ death, Jeff took up the mantle and began his writing career by offering this “prequel” to that famous novel.“Gods and Generals” tells the story of the first years of the American Civil War through the points of view of four key individuals: Robert E.
The novel concentrates on the central stage of the Civil War during the first couple of years, that part of Virginia where these four men fought and it covers the period of time all the way through Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, setting us up for the events at Gettysburg.Having loved Jeff Shaara’s work many times before, I was a little worried that his first effort would be “trying too hard” to be another Killer Angels.
We see the events leading up to the civil war, and then the first portion of the civil war up to the battle of Chancellorville and the turning of the tide from the South to the North.I think a guy who loves strategy and military battles would enjoy this book more than I did.
I wanted STORY, not army positions.My favorite character was General Lee, with Jackson a close second.
Did anybody like him at all while he was alive?What impressed me most while reading this story was the difference in Leadership between the North and the South.
I did thoroughly enjoy the character building done for the generals, especially Lee, Jackson, Stuart, Hancock, and Chamberlain.
I never realized how poorly executed the Civil War was at times, and how politics played into battle decisions, even in the 1860's.
Failing to capitalize on advantages time and again, both sides (but especially the North) missed opportunities which would have ended the war sooner had leadership been more decisive.
G&G starts before the Harper's Ferry raid, and brings each to-be general from their current place of service (some from the West) to the point where they became the leaders we would later learn about as legends.
If you like Civil War history at all, if you enjoy historical fiction at all, if you just like a good book...
read this one!The story centers around four main characters; Robert E.
While fiction (because we don't know their exact conversations and emotions during these times), this book presents the reader with a very credible look into the experiences leading up to the Battle of Gettysburg.
I read them out of order the first time but still enjoyed each one.
This was a fairly lame book.
He idolizes men like Lee, Jackson and Longstreet.
Lee is portrayed as burdened by his decision to join the southern cause because of how much he believes in the federal US government and system, yet doesn't seem to hesitate much in killing thousands of his countrymen.
If he was so good and righteous like this book demands us believe, then he wouldn't have lost the war and the God that he refers to throughout his "scenes" wouldn't have abandoned him and his cause.
This book perpetuates civil war mythology.
Excellent Read What can I say that hasn’t been said. Great character development. Great historical accuracy. Moving and emotional. The author does his father proud.
