https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/868210._Tamas_
Like most Partition fiction, Tamas (meaning Darkness) too identifies the complex nature humanity and inhumanity that drives people to massacre each other.
Eschewing grossly simplifying explanations for these murderous rages, the novel looks into the multiple simultaneous drives that lead people to kill others, and yet, save some others they were supposed to kill.Rather than following a single person's fate during the riots, as Train to Pakistan did, Tamas takes a bird's-eye view of the communal tensions raging through India, and how they were inextricably mingled with politics, economics and lies, not just on the part of the British who followed the policy of divide-and-rule, but also on the part of both communities.
On a moonlit night in a 1940s Punjab torn by communal riots, a Muslim woman leads an elderly Sikh couple whom she's briefly sheltered to what may be safety.
As they creep out of the village and along a dried riverbed, they see flames reaching up into the sky from a burning village on one bank of the river.
Then, "पेडों के झुरमुट में पीर की सफेद कबर उनहे नजर आई। उस पर दीया नहीं जल रहा था। आज के रोज उस पर दीया जलाना लोग भूल गए थे।" ("In a copse of trees, they saw the white grave of a saint.
No lam
On this night, people had forgotten to light a lamp here.") A poignant and ironic reflection on what was going on: people were too busy burning homes, too busy killing each other—and that too in the name of religion—to think of lighting a lamp at the otherwise revered grave of a saint.
Tamas is about the man who, ignorant of why he's been asked to kill a pig, sparks off communal violence in a town and is then, when he realizes what he's caused, racked by guilt and fear.
अभी भीषम साहनी की ‘तमस’ खतम की.दो बार पहले भी पढ़ी थी,पर हर बार पढ़ के दिल उतना ही बेचैन होता है,जैसे 
अभी भीष्म साहनी की ‘तमस’ खत्म की.दो बार पहले भी पढ़ी थी,पर हर बार पढ़ के दिल उतना ही बेचैन होता है,जैस
The Story starts off with Nathu a destitude man attempting to kill a Pig, for a handsome amount of 5Rs (Which by the way is not a very comfortable first page read), which has been commissioned by a wealthy Muslim Man apparently (or what we/ Nathu knows) for a vetinery purpose.
Aren’t you?’‘In the name of religion they fight one another; in the name of freedom they fight against us.’‘Don’t try to be too clever, Richard.
In the name of freedom they fight against you, but in the name of religion you make them fight one another.
Have been planning to read this book forever, but somehow never managed to buy/borrow it.
Finally managed to lay my hands on it on my recent vacation and glad I didn't read this in parts.
The intensity of it takes you in slowly and leaves you with a lump in the throat by the time you finish it.The book says it's based on real incidents and possible that Bhisham Sahni had witnessed some of the incidents actually narrated in this book.
No matter what, they seem quite plausible considering the time and situation that it's set in.
the book is about the time when the partition of INDIA-PAKISTAN took place and the riots that occured during that time.Its nicely written and if someone one loves reading historic-fiction books u sld probably read this one ..!!
I started reading this last weekend as we had to travel back to our home town for a family function, I actually picked it to check the public's reaction on a very old, acclaimed and that too a Hindi book.
And I must say not only the book blew my mind off but the way I got superb response from people upwards of 45 years + age, it was simply amazing.
Now after reading the book while travelling back to back for three days and wrapping the last 20 pages this morning after reaching home, I am totally speechless.
The story is based on the true events of riots of India-Pakistan partition in 1947 to which the author was himself the witness.
The book tells the stories of Hindus, Muslim and Sikhs both good and bad and British.
The events after the riots show how British achieved their divide and rule policy successfully.The novel has a sort of episodic structure and some what difficult to find the connection to the last but that does not remove the greatness of this book.
The book is depressing, frightening still it is a must read book for anyone who is needs the historical events and facts connected to India-Pakistan partition.
Kites shall hover, kites and vultures shall continue to hover for long… Like the receding tide of the sea, the tide of the riots had subsided, leaving behind all kinds of litter and junk and garbage.The above two quotes from the book summarise the before and after of the book clearly. Bhisham Sahni a master story teller sketches the darkness of partition through Tamas. This is not one story but multiple entwined stories creating a sequence of events building the partition saga.To read and share your views, visit the link below:http://storywala.blogspot.in/2012/09/...
This book is deservedly one of the greatest in Hindi literature. One of the darkest phases in Indian history, depicted from so many vantage points, many of which are not obvious and don't seem relevant at first. The narrative is largely unbiased, and brings out the human imperfections which surface out during these times to change the course of lives.Also, if you are looking for a graphic description of violence in riots, this is not exactly the book you want to read. But, that's exactly what makes it different, and better than others.
Its one of my Favorite book that i would recommend u to read on rainy days with coffee mug in ur hand....coz thats how i read it.........it has got the plot that has been set during the time of partition ..........AWESOME!!!
ऐसा उपनयास जो दूर खींच ले जाता है आज़ादी के पहले के समय में, कशमीर के किसी कालपनिक शहर और आसपास के इल
ऐसा उपन्यास जो दूर खींच ले जाता है आज़ादी के पहले के समय में, कश्मीर के किसी काल्पनिक शहर और आसपास के
Yet the story is rarely told from the perspectives of native South Asians and the religious conflicts are rarely emphasized.
In Tamas, we are exposed to the brutal reality of how the partition of India unfolded, and how ancient religious conflict and tension built up to bursting points.
Since this book was translated, I felt like there was an element of untrustworthiness.
I do not think it is a very good piece of literature, but Tamas should be read and studied by anyone who wants to explore a perspective on the partition other than a British one.
Tamas, Bhisham Sahni Bhisham Sahni chronicles the years leading to India’s Independence and Partition in Tamas by simply narrating the events through depiction of characters caught in the cobwebs of indefinable politics played out between two communities—Hindu and Muslims—with the British administration crafting means to aggravate the tension.
The opening scene where the chamar Nathu is assigned the job of slaying a pig by Murad Ali attains significance when we read it in the light of the politics between the Congress and the League.
The suffocating ambience in which Nathu kills the pig is later transferred to the society as riots break out.
Being a Muslim himself, Murad Ali asked for the pig to be killed.
(without counting Chandragupta which was a textbook ) It is indeed a great piece of work which depicts the Hindu-Muslim(and Sikh) riots during the freedom struggle of India.
It gives us an insight into the Divide and Rule policy followed by the British.
He could see what the British government aimed at and this is exactly What he writes about.
Reading this book will be a pleasure to the history lovers and those who would like to know about the religions of India.
Despite all this the book gets to be very disgusting at certain points when the killings are described.
सामपरदायिकता की भीषण अगनि में धधकते समाज का कैसा मारमिक चितरण किया है भीषम साहनी ने। यह उस अंधकारपूरण दौर की दासतान है जब कि विवेक , सहिषणुता और सदभाव के सूरय को राहु लग चुका है। इस उपनयास को पढ़े एक दशक से अधिक हो गया लेकिन आज भी इसका सार हृदय में अंकित है।
साम्प्रदायिकता की भीषण अग्नि में धधकते समाज का कैसा मार्मिक चित्रण किया है भीष्म साहनी ने। यह उस अंधकारपूर्ण दौर की दास्तान है जब कि विवेक , सहिष्णुता और सद्भाव के सूर्य को राहु लग चुका है। इस उपन्यास को पढ़े एक दशक से अधिक हो गया लेकिन आज भी इसका सार हृदय में अंकित है।
What. A. Beautiful. Book. Loved every aspect of it. Beautifully written and depicted. More coming soon.
It really is a horrible image.Laksmi Narayan's, Hayat Baksh's duplicity stands true to every single extremist in the society.Religion is used by the British for imperialistic agenda, by the Indian politicians as an electoral tool and by religious leaders as polarising extremism, creating insecurity on a national and global scale is clear from the novel.The most interesting thing about the novel is that it has no protagonist at all.
If we only knew how to pacify the radicals.What moved me was how casually the miscreants spoke of forcing themselves onto women, they abducted, one after the other until they died or were hacked to death.This is how riots are.
Men are killed while women are the victims of torture and the author does mention how the men offer to kill their wives first and also writes about how the women jump into the well one after the other to save themselves from being tortured.
Depressing.
ये उपनयास भारत के बटवारे के समय की गाथा बतलाता है। ये किसी एक चरितर के आस पास नही घूमता, अनेको चरितर
ये उपनयास भारत के बटवारे के समय की गाथा बतलाता है। ये किसी एक चरित्र के आस पास नही घूमता, अनेको चरित
Tamas is a disturbing book. In fact, when I started reading the book, I was quite surprised by the similarity of things with now. Or maybe not. But it was still a different experience to know how close those things seem to the present times. The book takes you through some of the worst faces of humans, and of course, in that process, brings out some raw emotions. Will probably read it again sometime.
सांपरदायिक तनाव, दंगे और भारत का विभाजन को समझने के लिए एक जरूरी किताब. भीषम साहनी अपनी बातों को बहुत सरल शबदों में एक पाठक को बताते हैं. आज के समय में जहाँ हम करीब हर रोज़ सांपरदायिक तनाव की खबरें सुनते है, तो हमारे समय के लिए यह किताब और परासंगिक है. एक हद तक यह किताब सतता वरग के चरितर को भी उजागर करती है.
सांप्रदायिक तनाव, दंगे और भारत का विभाजन को समझने के लिए एक जरूरी किताब. भीष्म साहनी अपनी बातों को बहुत सरल शब्दों में एक पाठक को बताते हैं. आज के समय में जहाँ हम करीब हर रोज़ सांप्रदायिक तनाव की खबरें सुनते है, तो हमारे समय के लिए यह किताब और प्रासंगिक है. एक हद तक यह किताब सत्ता वर्ग के चरित्र को भी उजागर करती है.
I have never been so relieved to finish a book. It was like I knew what would happen. I just had to read good 300 pages of it (which felt like 3000) to find out. The only thing I am glad about reading this thing is that now I will be able to tell my external teacher that I read it!
Teaching this text for the first time this year. Very interesting read. Very strong contextually, but I.m not sure about the literary elements yet. Looking forward to it.
Good book i like it
True of Partition, true for now in India. Perhaps even true about all time(s).Wish I could read a better edited translation and/or the original in Hindi.
the only thing i can possibly say about tamas is that is hands down the most chilling recount i have encountered so far.
sahni's casual acknowledgement of violence and his narrative style leaves one with more questions than answers; something i found to be beneficial to the reading experience.
unlike train to pakistan, tamas doesn't actually try to be a grand narrative - the problem with those, of course, being the attachment of the whole idea of the 'grand'.
it forces one to interrogate and acknowledge intersectionality in /everything/ and this is something i've always found lacking in the narratives of partition that i have read/watched/heard.
It is based on Bhisham Sahni's experiences & observations from the communal riots during partition, yet he removes himself from the plot & never inserts his own opinions in the plot as some authors do.
Instead, he simply narrates his story, letting the plot take its natural course without any interruptions by the author.
Bhisham Sahni shows how dangerous our understanding of history can be, when glorious stories of wars fought and won instill a sense of pride attached with war, which makes people raring for the same in contemporary times, even of the "enemy" isn't a foreign invader but a fellow countryman.
Bhisham Sahni was long on my list of 'cant wait to read' authors so finally i got hold of his book.No words can describe the magic of his story telling, i am in total awe, the pathos created through his novel is unparalleled.
The India-Pakistan partition and the exodus, innumerable stories have been penned down, plethora of events have been described.'Tamas' would be one of the best books i have come across so far which covers the sensitive happenings of 1947, cos it gives you an unbiased insight to an extent.
I opted for the Hindi version as I wanted to read the original work and not translated one.Tamas captures the simmering tensions & the changing social fabric in the pre-partition India brilliantly.
For someone, whose grandparents migrated from Pakistan to India in 1947; I could connect to the novel instantly as I grew up listening to the horrific tales from them.Tamas is a must read for any one who wants to understand partition from a common man's point of view and not from any political party's myopic angle.
