https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123945.The_Satanic_Witch
Tired Pervy Unenlightened 1960s Cliches I read this shortly after finishing The Satanic Bible because I was a teenage prat and still wanted to shock the people sat opposite me on public transport. For these purposes this book doesn't work as well as The Satanic Bible. Though it still has the inverted pentacle on the cover, the friendly pink colour lowers the impact.As for contents: Ha! Holy shit it's terrible. The 'magic' referred to is all about seduction - this whole book is basically an egot
I read this shortly after finishing The Satanic Bible because I was a teenage prat and still wanted to shock the people sat opposite me on public transport.
The 'magic' referred to is all about seduction - this whole book is basically an egotistical straight man's ideas for what women should do to pick up guys.
Its advice goes from the neanderthal: 'don't wash - pheromones are your body's natural magic' to atrocious deception based on cod-psychology.
Apparently all men and women have a 'demon' self which is the opposite of their outer self, and it's the 'demon' self you have to pitch yourself to.
And do you want to know what I learned from the experience?Being a feminist is not going to stop other women from taking advantage of you.
No matter how many Tumblr and Twitter feminists blast out to the world that they don't care about what men think of them, a good 90% DO and are simply trying to convince themselves and others.Now, even though I'm a lesbian I still put this book to good use with women, mainly butch/stud lesbians who truly appreciate the femininity in women and seek it as if their very lives depended on it.
Taken with a grain of salt (this is Anton LaVey after all, would he want it any other way?) this book does more to empower women than a lot of feminist books out there.
Beauty (and every woman has it) is to be celebrated.
Read with an open mind, realize his views came from living through the late 1960s and the 'women's movement' (the WHY should I do anything to emphasize I'm a woman-that should be completely irrelevant to anything), you'll get a lot out of this.
Anton believed a woman's beauty came from being feminine and dare I say it, DIFFERENT than men.
I hope that not too many people read this book. Luckily, given the author, the title, and the symbol on its cover, that's probably the case as it is.  This book contains fantastic insights into human nature.  I loved the section on "divination." Lavey tears into astrology, palmistry, psychic readings and all those things, showing them for what they are. Better yet, he tells you tricks on faking it, and fooling people into believing you can read their fortunes. Don't read it. :-)
It was a movie scene: Young peers murmured and giggled that I was a weirdo; afraid to approach me, yet unafraid to openly spread rumors that I was a “Satanist,” a word which held such a scary, cautionary meaning; a slang to define someone with purely negative intentions and a pension for evil.Whilst personally never having believed in a physical God, I still wondered to myself why this word — “Satanist” — bared such negative connotations.
Labeling myself as a LaVeyan Satanist offers me a feeling of excitement and inspiration in a way that only this unique set of words can.
I'll start this off by making a brief, yet somewhat thorough criticism of all the things I've read in "The Satanic Witch" by Anton LaVey that I think should be looked over, and revised.
Like I said, I think that its outdated, and its high time someone with some intelligence stood up and said something!My criticism starts on page 10, The Satanic Witch*, Chapter I, "Are You a Witch" where a sentence states;"In reality, the more uptight one is when he enters the ritual chamber, the better.
People are constantly looking for ways they can try to feel better about themselves, and they think that outer appearance is a direct reflection of that.
What he failed to understand is that the women who buy such things aren’t looking for results, they are looking for books that confirm their belief in themselves as good people, who will be rewarded for their goodness.
The women who respond to this book also aren’t looking for results, but rather for confirmation that the world is a nasty place and only by being nasty will they ever get ahead.
Much of the rest of the book tells us what he thought of women, which probably won’t surprise anyone, but bearing in mind his own expressed wish to become one, it takes on a different meaning.
I couldn't finish reading this dross. Is LaVey encouraging women to sexually manipulate men, or is he encouraging women to pander to men sexually? Me thinks the latter. As a feminist killjoy, I'm not the target audience for this book. It's nothing more than insulting, without any of the humour and wit LaVey is known for.
whole lot to unpack here: heteronormative, unexpectedly sex positive, anti feminist.. but built upon the premise of manipulating men for one's own purposes. interesting as insight into lavey/survey of laveyen satanusm, but the book in general is self indulgent dreck.
I've never been much of a fan of Lavey, as Satanism is too close to Objectivism in multiple ways.
What I found myself immersed in was a madman's outdated ideas of seduction which included always wearing red lips, garters, and heels, wearing soiled underwear and bra straps, not wearing deodorant, putting menstrual blood in a packet underneath your bra, faking your personality to match the man you want to seduce on "the clock." (An invention which puts every person's personality and size on a 12 point clock).This book was like the 1960s version of the pick up artist for women.
In high school, I learned how to make voodoo dolls from socks thanks to this book. Other than that, it's a tired exercise in pop psychology. Dr. Phil with a pentagram and inverted cross. Also a bunch of supposedly pro-female 'philosophy' (that word is used lightly here) that, in all actuality, sees the sole power of women as consisting of manipulation and sex appeal.
I knew a couple girls in high school who had Anton LaVey books and wouldn't let me flip through them. Of course that sparked my curiousity even more. They didn't want me to read it because then I would figure out that they are following the book word for word like they were directions to life. The whole satan thing doesn't even have to do with satan. Boooooring!
You'll learn more from this book then you ever will from watching Tyra Banks about catching and manipulating a guy (or girl). I wont say this book is out dated because you can quickly re-apply the hippie jive stuff into modern day examples, but a few things gave me pause...It took me a good long few seconds to realize what a 'fall' was and I still don't know what the hell 'duck soup' means...
A 280 page long Satanic Cosmo article.
I've read this book many times. It can be comical and ridiculous at times but i love the message that as a woman you possess a great power. It doesn't matter your body type, there are men out there who will gravel at your feet.Use your feminine wiles to your advantage and get what you want from men.
The fleshing out that a reader of "The Satanic Bible" might have wanted about Lesser Magic is within this book, and LaVey doesn't disappoint.
This is the Machiavelli Reader for women.Three additionally interesting features:1) Though this is a book on Lesser Magic, some attention is paid to Ceremonial (otherwise known as "Greater") Magic, as well.
Either way, sinfully satisfying.2) The entire work can be viewed as confirmation of LaVey's intelligence, but there are a few times even in here that it seems obvious to me that he wants readers to flesh out the theories he presents in practice.
This book was recommended to me by a sarcastic friend who loved to tweak "bourgeoisie" understanding, so with that perspective flavoring my read of it, I actually enjoyed this thing.
Sure, LaVey did occasionally insult my feminist leanings, but I tend to agree with other reviewers in thinking that this book actually was feminist for its time, in its own way.
I haven't read any modern "catch a man" equivalent, so I have no idea if some of his recommendations are still out there but many still seem effective (e.g. allow your bra and/or underwear to show: it makes men think of sex).
Not bad. It was certainly less over-the-top than the Satanic Bible (which I've admittedly not been able to finish for that reason.) Some of the advice seems sound, though of course it would need to be put to the test. Other advice, however, was rather obvious to me, and the book only briefly touched on the lesbian witch (a few pages.) Also less discussed was how to charm women, though given that LaVey stated early in the book that influencing women wouldn't be a focus and why, that was to be expected.
A brilliant book!
Book was kind of retarded. I suppose that if you can get into it, you might like it, but I just couldn't take it.
Hey, what can I say,it was a faze I was going through at the time although I dont think they're satanist as much as they're hedonist
Читать где-то между 17 и 20. В то же время читать вдумчиво, старательно вычленяя неустаревающие идеи, изрядно преломлять их о свой опыт и современное состояние западного сознания. Книга небесполезная, но действительно сложная в обработке: до жемчужных зёрен в ней надо додумываться, и её кажущаяся простота и прямота ничуть не облегчают задачу.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book, there is a lot you can take from reading about satanism and witchcraft - the Satanic witch teaches women to be strong, independent, ''take no shit'' women who will never be a push over for men. This book teaches you how to bewitch men, i'm so glad that I managed to get this book, even though I had this book on my 'to read' list two years ago
Best book I’ve read in a long time Funny and brilliant tips you do not hear from every other self help author. Very entertaining and enlightening. Girls who are serious about being attractive to others on another level should read.
It's basically a how-to guide for women who want to learn how to seduce a man. It's pretty informative, and I would say accurate to a degree, but layered in sexism and exclusion. Take what you read with a grain of salt.
This crap is utter poppycock!If you ever felt the need to "magically" manipulate men. Just pretend to be someone you aren't and attach a used tampon to your bra.(Please ignore my crappy English)
Holy shit. This book is absolutely amazing.
I read this book mostly to shock people who would see me reading it. But as a nonbinary, gay, asexual teenager, the book was a load of bullshit!
It took me ages to read this as I had to keep putting it down (or back in my kindle) and reading it as filler between short train stations one tiny chapter at a time.
"Undies should look as though you didn't plan on anyone seeing them, then they look more forbidden.
And as for the uncomfortable feeling that occurs as you read some points - when he discusses manipulating people for your own gain.
How you feel about that sentence will probably indicated how much fun you'll have reading the book.
It should also be noted that the book is written for women to read.
I found the LaVey Personality Clock to be a very interesting way of sizing people up.
It's clear it from him own perspective, but certainly some kind of ground work for someone to formulating their own perspectives.
Some of the book I find disagreeable, as a male my ears don't perk up (as LaVey put it) when a woman tells me the scathing details of one of her female peers and is actually more met with a "really....yeah....jeez" when I hear it.
The book is a little dated but certainly captured aspects of females I'd personally be attracted to.
This book is certainly much more of an engaging and cohesive read than The Satanic Bible or even the Devil's Notebook.
