https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1855153.The_Harp_in_the_South
This is Surry Hills, Sydney now. Epitome of gentility.By Orestes654 (talk) 08:34, 23 November 2010 (UTC) - Own work, CC BY 3.0, LinkBut it was a working class slum in the 1940s.   and it was home to the working class Darcys, who live in desperate circumstances. The squalor, lack of privacy & bed bugs - this is as far removed from the romantic poverty of I Captured the Castle  as it possible to be. The family can barely afford to feed & clothe themselves (certainly not made an easier by f
I can promise you there is one scene that will have most people grinding their teeth in rage at Hughie's fecklessness) but this family love  each other & when it is important they pull together.
Ruth Park is fading into obscurity in her country of birth (New Zealand.) I just hope she is better known in Australia where she lived most of her life.
This, her first novel, is also supposed to be her best, but I still want to read more of her work.Best New Zealand book I have read this year.
This story captures the essence of the hard life of the Darcy family, Sydney in the mid nineteen hundreds.
But I loved a line between to young people in love discussing marriage, and wondering how the 'black skipped a couple of generations') and poverty was in abundance but this family loved each other and we were left with the impression they were wanting for nothing.
The imagery of a young couple honeymooning in Narrabeen with pure delight was lovely.
Excellent writing and it seems to me a perfectly captured era of the slums and mess and overwhelming love of a family who had naught in the way of materialistic pleasures.
Their trials and tribulations are well told in the hands of Ruth Park who has a beautiful turn of phrase and also an understanding of the life and thoughts of these working poor.
I have no issue with that at all as the book has subjects that young people should read about and understand, abortion, alcoholism, sectarianism and racial prejudice for example.
With that I am intrigued as it making the reading lists of Queensland state schools even as late as 1984.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tilly_D...A book for anyone interested in Australian literature from the past.
The Good:Such beautiful prose. This is a story about urban slum dwellers in the forties yet painted in fantastic faerie imagery. The setting is amazing, and almost certainly authentic, being set around the time of publication. The characters are very well done.The Bad:It was so depressing. My heart is broken. It is slow too and doesn’t follow a particularly exciting story arc.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Roie Darcy is definitely Ross. She is innocent and lovable, and her naivety leads her into misadventure (view spoiler)[but it all works out in the end (hide spoiler)].
I think I was about eleven when I first read this Australian classic and I decided to reread this year it to fulfil my Eclectic Reader challenge requirements after it was named in the First Tuesday Book Club's Top Ten Books to Read Before You Die. The Harp in the South is a glimpse into the everyday life of inner Sydney's poorest post war community and introduces the Darcy family who live in Sydney's slums at Twelve-and-a-Half Plymouth Street, Surry Hills.
Park has an eye for authentic detail, character and dialogue- not surprising really since she lived in Surrey Hills with her husband at the time.
Well enough.On the plus side, I enjoyed the fact it's almost a series of short stories rather than a novel (Park herself said she wanted to write a book that was plotless, like life).
But especially the hooker, she was kinda great.I did feel that Park occasionally laughs at her characters (for example, when two of them believe they're looking at a ruby when in fact it's something cheaper) & occasionally during the early chapters, I felt there was sometimes more pity than compassion, if you know what I mean.
The novel, perhaps surprisingly today, was seen as controversial when it first appeared, many arguing that Park had made up the slum life we experience through the lives of the Irish Catholic Darcy family who are central to her book.
Park attested to the book’s authenticity, having herself lived in a tenement in the Surry Hills area of Sydney with her husband when first married.The book is set at the time it was written, which certainly took this reader by surprise, probably because of the acute poverty experienced by its cast of characters.
It’s hard to believe (from our cosseted lives today) how a day’s outing to the seaside could have been seen as a momentous occasion.
This edition contains the trilogy of novels that comprise The Harp in the South, Missus, The Harp in the South and Poor Man's Orange.It was interesting to read the trilogy because you arrive at a better understanding of Hugh and Margaret Darcy.
In Poor Man's Orange life has come full circle for Margaret and Hugh and it is their children and grandchildren who carry the story to the end.These are novels that pull at the heart strings, there is love and laughter, cruelty and thoughtfulness.
Sad to come to the end of the Darcy's, they had a story worth telling.
This novel recounts the (mis)adventures of the dysfunctional but bighearted Darcy family, living in the dirty poor suburb of Surry Hills (Sydney) in the 40s.I liked this is a down under classic for its realism, but one word of warning: one has to steel oneself for the rampant racist comments in the characters’ dialogues.
I’m sure they were common and probably supposed to be funny at the time the book was written (1948) but nowadays they are truly cringe worthy.
I listened to the audio version narrated by Kate Hood, the best comic parts in her Aussie brogue reminded me of “Kath and Kim”.
3.5 stars
Set in the 1940s, Harp in The South tells the story of the Darcy family who live in the working class suburb of Surrey Hills in Sydney.
Mumma is a housewife who does her best to be a good Catholic wife, amongst the bad influences that surround the Darcy family.Harp in the South covers about a year in the Darcy family’s life.
The influences of the Catholic church, the local brothel madam/sly grog supplier and heartless landlords are all explored.
You can’t help but love the characters and feel for them as they battle their various life challenges.
The Harp in the South (1948) was Ruth Park’s first novel and is, I think, the nest-loved of all her books.
While her two small children slept, Ruth Park wrote it on the kitchen table of her parents’ home in New Zealand while she was visiting from Australia.
She and her husband D’Arcy Niland were determined to make a living from writing, and the Sydney Morning Herald’s literary competition with a prize of £2000 propelled her into using her experiences in the slum Sydney suburb of Surry Hills for a novel.
Harp in the SouthBy Ruth ParkThe Harp in the South is a classic Australian novel that was the latest discussion book for the Crusoe Community Book Club.
The Darcy family are close knit but live a life of poverty amidst the brothels, grog shops and run down housing of the area.
Yet amidst this life of deprivation there is real love in this family consisting of Hughie and Mumma and their two children Roie and Dolour.
At this time many Irish and recent immigrants lived in Surry Hills as this was the only area that they could afford.
After marrying writer D’Arcy Niland they moved to Sydney where she wrote full time, with over fifty books to her name, and she also received many awards including a Miles Franklin Award.
The Harp in the South is a story of the Darcy family, living in the slums of Sydney, extremely poor and struggling through their day to day lives.
Hugh Darcy had a drinking problem, and many times he came home drunk, suffering from a terrible hangover the next day.
When Roie suffered terribly, she was nursed at home.
The story focuses on the way in which the family of the Darcy's who live in number twelve and a half, Plymouth street, deal with the events and environment they are bought up in.
The important themes of the book centre around the poverty faced by people living in the area at this time, which is essential to the make up of this book.
This book, became one that I couldn't put down.
I would actually be walking around with my nose stuck to the pages because I needed to know what happened next.I will always recommend this book and will probably re read it in the future (:
4.5 stars
To be honest I read this years ago and so its details escape me, but I remember being struck by the vividness of its portrayal of inner-city poverty. In its portrayal of old-fashioned Australian working-class life and the role of women in particular, I file it along with Brides of Christ and  Come in Spinner .I read it as an example of a bygone form of community in which people of different races and circumstances (disabled, addicted, pregnant, aspirant, etc) were forced to coexist and be confro
.I read it as an example of a bygone form of community in which people of different races and circumstances (disabled, addicted, pregnant, aspirant, etc) were forced to coexist and be confronted by one another.
by Margaret Paice, which I read as a kid, and which taught me about a particularly Australian stoicism and laconic community-building in the face of poverty.I live in an atomised world now where the communities we make are created by shared belief systems and tastes, and sheltered by the privilege of class and cultural capital.
I've noticed people can be very uncomfortable when confronted with difference – of opinion, of belief, of circumstance – because we're able to retreat from it.
Set in Sydney's Surry Hills in the 1940s, The Harp in the South is the story of a working class family and their daily trials and tribulations.
Hard as it is to believe, Surry Hills (currently land of the $2mil one bedder) was once upon a time a suburb of working class slums.
Looked down upon by almost every other suburb, the Surry Hills inhabitants became a stand alone community all trying to survive from one day to the next.
The Darcy family at the centre of the story consists of an alcoholic father, a mother grieving the loss of her son, an older daughter experiencing her first love and a younger daughter growing into her early teenage years.
I was a big fan of Ruth Park's Muddle-Headed Wombat books as a child, but had never read any of her adult work.
This is an incredibly accomplished first novel, set in late 1940s Surry Hills, Sydney - then a slum largely populated by poor Irish and other immigrant families.
It's a fascinating look at a period not all that long ago, but totally alien to my 1960s lower-middle class Melbourne childhood.
Ruth Park's characters are all well-fleshed out and believable.
She takes us inside their heads and guides us through their domestic situations.
I've already ordered the other two books in the trilogy.
I loved this book for the characters, but it's not a plot driven book so i think that lost me a little bit. More than anything, it's a study of character and environment, and how the one drives the other. I don't think it would warrant a second read but i'm glad i picked it up.
It grew slowly on me like barnacles on a boat, but I was in no hurry to scrap them off once they were there. 3 and a half stars.

“As a writer, love is what I have always written about,” Park has said – and indeed, the warm, fiercely protective intimacy of the family at the heart of Harp in the South is what first strikes the contemporary reader.The novel follows a couple of years in the life of the residents of Twelve-and-a-Half Plymouth Street, Surry Hills, the heart of Sydney’s “Shanty Town”.
And indeed, the novel unfolds much as life does – a series of small moments (beautifully rendered) that add up to tell the story of a family and a neighbourhood.
Ruth Park is a wonderful storyteller!The Harp In the South is set in the slums of Surry Hills, a suburb of Sydney, in the 1940s (although this is not specifically defined).The Darcy family, Irish Catholic immigrants, live in a run down tenement at Twelve and a Half Plymouth Street, which they share with a single Irish Protestant man (which leads to insults on St Patrick's Day particularly) and an enigmatic single woman who has, and loses, a handicapped son.
I say this because the reason that I read this book from 1948 was because it is set in the neighbourhood in which I live, and that was one of the great pleasures of the book, that I could feel the surroundings long ago, that the short walk down to Chinatown and Market City is one I've done many times, and that perhaps one of the old houses, nestled among warehouse conversions and newer apartments, is similar to where the Darcys lived.It's a rough life the Darcys lead, poor and bedbug-infested, alcohol-soused, and with a swirling mix of naivete, optimism and resignation; and while something in the writing style feels dated, it is also wonderfully colourful and engaging.
I enjoyed reading a classic Australian novel that actually acknowledges how the overwhelming majority of Australians live - in cities.
Also working in Surry Hills and having lived there is great to read about an area I’m so familiar with.
However I have to acknowledge that this was one of the books setting the cliche not subscribing to it.
There has been so much about that stuff since, it’s hard to read this book with fresh eyes.All in all it’s a great book of its time, but hard for me to enjoy completely now.
Ruth Park lived in Surry Hills, then a Sydney slum (now gentrified and expensive).
She based the Darcys on the Irish family of her husband, D’Arcy Niland and they are all memorable characters - the loving Mumma, the hapless Hughie and their daughters, gentle Roie and hopeful Dolour.
To make ends meet, the Darcys take in boarders - exaggerated characters perhaps but with unpredictable depths as well.
Needing to buy it on Kindle (because the print in my old copy was too small!) I had the bonus of purchasing all the books in the Surry Hills trilogy.
A true Aussie classic, brimming with love, humour, pathos and true character studies, The Harp in the South is notable for having working class heroes in a time where they weren't really championed in Australian literature - surprising seeing so much of Australian identity is focused upon the image of the Aussie battler.Some modern readers may take umbrage with what they see as stereotypical characters but this context is important - it wasn't stereotypical at the time - and it is hard to deny the warmth you feel from them and their misadventures.
The Darcys seem real and relatable, and above all it is a beautiful portrait of a family that sticks together despite their trials.
Park's insights into the characters are at times truly profound and just a little heartbreaking, especially in their darker moments.
This particular family communicates with an awful lot of yelling and with helplessness covered up as anger.
At times I thought the author to look down on her characters, making them less clever, and which gave no extra meaning to the story.
But then again, at other times, she makes you completely fall in love with the Darcy family.
It's most interesting moments is where the author puts light on abortion, racism, religion, poverty, women's rights all in one novel, still making it realistic within one family.
What drives the story is the love the Darcy's have for each other, despite all the yelling.
I feel very torn about this book- hailed as Australian must read classic I found it dull and boring failing to capture my imagination about the Sydney slums. However reading about Ruth Park and the impact the book had when it was released in 1948 and especially how Mrs. Park gave women a voice through her book made me feel much more gentle and good willing towards it. I listened to it as an audiobook and the reader was fantastic! 3 stars all up!
I have this impression that books written in the 40s are sunny and light, and don't address the seamier side of life, or if they do, they do it in a delicate way. Therefore, I was surprised at the frankness of this novel about an Irish immigrant family living in a Sydney slum in the early 20th century. More a series of vignettes than a solidified storyline, it was very interesting and eyeopening reading.
