https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59771.Ryder
This is good. Rather bafflingly good. At a minimum, you fans of Darconville's Cat will be pleased here. Of course for herself as well. A very high point of what we affectionately call the high modernist experimental novel.
These days I feel like I've been absorbed into a Rosemary's Baby womb.
So reading Ryder made me feel like that.
I don't know if I feel like the womb or the baby but it is stuck in forever being born to someone else.
One illustration is of Wendell Ryder's second woman to wife Kate-Careless.
I don't want to think about Wendell Ryder ever again.I liked the drawing of the faceless female corpse.
What I admired is that Barnes could show you what the scabbed knees look like if you were by their feet.
Ah, dilly, dilly, dilly, hath Tittencote brought forth a Girl once again, no longer what she should be, but forever and forever of To-morrow and yet another day!
Ravished, and the Weather Fork not turned twice upon its Vane!
A Girl is lost!
What thing taken from your Father's Table turned you Belly up?
Thy Brother weeps amid his Diapers, and thy Father behind his Beard!...Great things by Little are thus brought to Dust.
Strong Nations rise and come to Flower under the Hee of one Emperor, and are brought low by the Haw of the next....Oh Fie upon you!
My first introduction to Djuna Barnes was through "Nightwood," which is a fantastic novel with rich prose and peculiar characters (Dr. Matthew O'Connor also appears in this work, but is not as developed yet).
The afterward by Paul West appropriately compares Barnes' style in this work - an anti-novel of sorts - with the anti-art of the Dadaists, particularly Max Ernst.
It is also described there as a book that "looks forward to 'Ulysses'," particularly so because of the sumptuous prose.
Overall, I found it a good work, but not nearly as rewarding as "Nightwood" by the time the reader reaches the end.
More wit and creativity than her male contemporaries seemed to have. A very interesting read.
A fascinating missing link in literary history: one half Tristram Shandy, one half Ulysses, uniquely female in scope and subject, and as grotesque as anything I've read outside of Gargantua. I can't say I enjoyed reading RYDER - it's extremely inconsistent, morally all over the map, and has barely any plot cohesion - and would struggle to recommend it, but as part of an anthropological study of female experimental literature (this spring's project), it's tremendously interesting. It sings when it's simplest and it struggles when it pushes into the experimental. If only it were the other way round.
This book is very difficult to make it through. I'm not smart enough to understand what the hell the author is doing.
3.5 stars
Alienating, off-putting, possibly brilliant .. will require a second read, if not a third.
"******"
This book fucking sucks.
i only give this a three because i have to re-read it, ok, it might have flummoxed me the first time but, next time djuna, i will be way too laid back to be flummoxed again.
I need more time with you, Ryder.
I will continue to attempt reading this book over and over again. Her style perplex is definitely requiring full attention that I have yet to give it.
She sure makes it exhausting...
