https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181010.The_Dark_Side_of_the_Sun
I think, for the preservation of sci-fi as a book genre, this book should only be read by either fans of Terry Pratchett himself or of obscure, vintage sci-fi.
Widdershins may as well be on Discworld, only a Discworld that is 2000 years in to the future and has more advanced technology than the slide rule.It is a fairly decent yarn, with a good story arc and some great comedy sci-fi moments.
I mean, it was published about five years before Discworld, and it's nice to know that a man like PTerry started his career with a slight failure.

I have a special relationship with four pairs of first albums.
Sure, as musicians mature, the best among them become more technical, more complex, ‘deeper’ in many ways; yet in very special cases, the combination of youthful drive and youthful naiveté can produce what in hind sight is their best work.
The four bands in question are Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, Metallica, and Blind Guardian.
Their contributions and accomplishments are many, but the first two albums rock forever.Which brings me to The Dark Side of The Sun and Strata – Pratchett’s first two ‘albums’ (not counting his early Carpet People demo).
Pratchetts version of Dune.
A classic style space-opera with all of the problems that implies but shorter and with the usual Pratchett wit.
It isn't a comedy though, in fact while its not overly serious you could barely even call it a satire.
About as funny as The Fifth Element.As i said it has all the problems of space-opera, too many characters, too many names, too much technobabble, too many weird concepts etc.
but its short so not as annoying.
It does make me wonder though if Pratchett actually liked writing fantasy or just stuck with it because it received more approbation?
I wonder if Pratchett is embarrassed by this book or whether he simply sees it as a necessary part of learning to become an author?This book, like Strata, is from his "science fiction / fantasy" stage where he concentrates too hard on the things about fantasy worlds which make them different - specifically the technological gizmoes.In later life, Pratchett came to realise that all good story-telling is ultimately about characters (not necessarily human!).
Don't give it to someone who is just coming to the Discworld for the first time - you will lose a fan!Best forgotten in my opinion and it has been to the extent that I can barely remember the plot.
Very interesting early Pratchett novel, full of colorful characters and some deeper philosophy..... plus I can still see some early Discworld and Strata ideas floating around, from made worlds complete with fossils, to mentions of small gods and Hogswatch.
A cute story. Popcorn for the brain. The usual tongue-in-check social commentary of all Practchett's discworld tales.A good read.
MEH... not my cup of tea...
For the amount of pages this book had, it took me a while to get through.
It was not an easy read, perhaps feeling a bit more like an experimental book?
Indeed, to my knowledge Pratchett has not really made a habit of writing sci-fi, possibly with good reason.
I think this books main fault is in the fact it is too alien.
Strange places, ideas and people were explained by even stranger places, ideas and descriptions, making it difficult to know what was going on.
Recommended for either hardcore sci-fi or Pratchett fans only.
Here is the thing, I do not understand why there are so many negative reviews and bad ratings on thi
He's often recommended alongside of Douglas Adams, though it must be confessed that Pratchett was genuinely a writer (as opposed to a guy like Adams, who really resisted that title).He has a very facile way, like Adams, of spooling out wild scifi (more fantasy, really) concepts and this book throws more things at the wall than you can shake a stick at, for such a short novel.
Case in point, the "sundogs".It, like many SF novels, is basically a mystery.
Having just read The Night of Kadar and The Douglas Convolution, which are also mystery-centered SF, I give the ending here—the solution to all the mysteriousness—a "satisfying".
A este le pongo 1 estrella por ser Pratchett, porque si llega a ser otro autor, no lo habría conseguido ni acabar.Este libro, junto a Strata, supone una inmersión en el género de la ciencia ficción.
Loado sea Om por hacerle ver el camino.Como ciencia ficción, a menudo parece una mezcla entre La guerra de las galaxias y La guía del autoestopista galáctico, solo que antecede a estos dos.
Es curioso, parece que estas dos obras, por lo que respecta a su temática y desarrollo, no son tan innovadoras como cabría pensar.Este libro es del 76, con lo que teóricamente es el segundo libro de Pratchett, antes incluso de Strata y antes también de que empezara el Mundodisco.
There's everything you could possibly expect or want from a Pratchett Sci-Fi novel.Well.First things first: After all the Pratchett I've read (ALL of it), it's really funny coming back to his first adult novel and seeing how many kernels of Things to Come are in here.
It still retains all the Pratchett-ism you'd come to love in his later works though, trust me; it's very funny (I mean, the scene with Isaac and the other robots?
Try not laughing at what he calls them), but this is more comedic Sci-fi than the satiric fantasy most fans have come to know him for.Would I give it to someone new to Pratchett?
This is clearly early Pratchett: the ideas run rampant, too much is happening, and while mildly humorous, it lacks the wit and wisdom of later works. Yet I found it refreshingly creative and fun. It is really a YA novel - a teenage boy is seeking the secrets of the galaxy while pursued by murderous killer robots. Light and fun.
Non-comedic and inventive short SF novel from Terry Pratchett. It was not what I expected (since I expected comedy), but it did include some Discworld references and a look into how a culture might deal with the many-universes theory as a practical thing.Colorful critters, a progenitor race with a sense of humor, strange places and somewhat-flat characters make this a likeable romp around the galaxy. Too short to get truly deep or convoluted, I still liked it.
Kdysi hodně dávno jsem knihu četl - vypůjčenou v knihovně.
A už několik let ji intenzivně (spolu s knihu Strata) sháním (vydavatel druhé vydání vylučuje, bohužel...).
Nakonec se povedlo dlouhodobým monitoringem antikvariátů po celé ČR a jsem moc rád.
Pratchettova imaginace je tady naprosto neuvěřitelná - témat, nápadů, technologií, postav ras, planet atd.
je tady tolik, že se v tom člověk až ztrácí.
Pro Pratchettova fanouška a čtenáře vyhledávající sci-fi dohromady je to takový malý splněný sen :)* Btw strašně mi to celé kromě knih Douglas Adams připomínalo taky poslední fázi hry Spore a objevování tajemství Hrubešů, včetně divnoplanet poschovávaných ve vesmíru :)
In my most humble opinion everybody should be always (I mean in each moment of a human being life) reading at least: one spiritual book, a (maybe non) fiction book and one written by Terry Pratchett.
Now you are here to read about the third one.If you ever read a book by Terry Pratchett you may have noticed a feeling of “okeyness” within your day to day life.
Terry Pratchett builds a world (in fact a whole universe) with more than fifty races, including robots, humans and big guys (lakes, planets, puppies...).
If you want something that makes you smile, something that deals with flying shoes, magic swords, chaos and randomness, get some Terry Pratchett book.
To be honest, despite the problems Strata had, it was better written and more consistent than The Dark Side of the Sun.In his first novel, Pratchett tried his luck with a Sci-Fi story, the effort itself commendable.
Here, I found, the humour and some setting elements were comparable to Douglas Adams's famous The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, which came out later and were better worked out (in my opinion).The Dark Side of the Sun is about a character, Dom, who's about to rise in function, is on a quest to find Jokers World, but encounters several problems to prevent him from succeeding.
Charming early Pratchett SF. It goes pretty quick, though far from his best.
As a big Discworld fan, this was interesting to read in that its publication predates The Color of Magic by about half a dozen years, and it is sci-fi instead of fantasy.
In spite of that plus the fact that Pratchett's writing was still in its formative years, it bubbles over with his lively imagination (reminiscent perhaps of Leonard of Quirm?).
).All in all an enjoyable read, perhaps of more interest to the existing Terry Pratchett fans than to general sci-fi fans.
I would not recommend it as a first Pratchett novel to the uninitiated, instead recommending 
Most compare it with Discworld, and think it bad.
The story jumps around a lot, and the usual tied ends (even the tiny ones you never expected an author would bother to include) we know and love from other Pratchett works are not exactly there.But to me, this book is important.
If you know Pratchett's writing, it is very easy to follow the growth of a titan in this book.
While you can try and analyse one of those, The Dark Side of the Sun offers a much easier opportunity to understand the author both in his ideas, and in the way he communicates them.
Whatever appeared earlier in a book comes to its conclusion or plays its part later on.
In this book the feeling of loose ends being tied up didn't happen for me.***SPOILER ALERT***For instance, the Head of Security, Korodore - quite an important character earlier on - died quite dramatically and that was it.
It was as if characters appeared and events happened but it was all haphazard.
The sigificance of each event and each character was lost on me, I'm afraid.But it was a good exercise for me to see that writers, even those who are published, get better and better the more they write.
7/10I think I'm going to stick to the discworld series before jumping into more of his other books.
I have not read Pratchett for a while and never a sci-fi.This is (not surprisingly ) lighthearted and imaginative.I didn't enjoy this as much as when I read "Mort" for instance but then there is a good chance I am just older and grumpier.The story is all over the place.We are spun from planet to planet, often for just half a page to meet some odd alien before dashing off again.The silly names of people and races I did find annoying.As you would expect, short, sharp, well written and quite far-out-there.
This is one of Terry Pratchett's early science fiction novels. It's been years since I first read it, so I decided to do so again yesterday. It's quite good. You can see some of the ideas that evolved into Discworld elements in this. The scenes, however, are sparsely sketched, sometimes making it difficult to visualize what is going on. Still, it is humorous and thought provoking. I recommend it.
A psychedelic romp to find 'The Creator'. Short but packed with big ideas. Stylistically quite challenging for reading in 30 min chunks on the train, like Strata: dialogue-heavy and dense with references to alien cultures and futuristic technologies.
I enjoyed this one way more than Strata![proper review to follow]
Flashes of Pratchett's brilliance, but many of the characters were underdeveloped, and I felt the ending was too abrupt.
42 WORD REVIEW:Pre Discworld, pre Hitchhiker’s, Pratchett’s first (unrewritten) novel is a SF not-quite-comedy, rich in exotic detail and soaring with wild concepts… albeit not quite going anywhere. It is a tantalising glimpse into a universe where Pratchett parodied the future, not the present.
This story has occasional nods to the rest of the fantasy world Pratchett built up for Discworld, but this is a sci-fi novel and not located in or near Discworld. In this book time and probability are in flux, as a young man goes off on a quest to find the world where a mysterious and ancient race went after peppering part of the universe with life and occasional, odd towers and other artifacts.
