https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/883193.Turn_Magic_Wheel
Indeed, I'd not heard of her until I read Everybody Was So Young: Gerald and Sara Murphy: A Lost Generation Love Story.
Turn, Magic Wheel, which was published in 1936, is Powell's seventh novel.
Metafiction is thus combined with a satire of the publishing industry in 1930s New York that is sharp, funny and occasionally poignant.
While there's much to admire in Powell's writing, there's an uneveness to the tone of the novel that's rather jarring, with laugh-out-loud funny moments juxtaposed with sad scenes in a way that doesn't quite work.
That said, I'd still like to read more of Powell's work and to know more about her.
I read this book because Rory Gilmore recommended it.
This was an excellent book... beautifully flawed characters longing for connection and being continually heartbroken yet still seeking fulfillment. Sounds a little bleak though the humanity in this story was ever present and captivating. And the setting of New York City in the 1930s felt like another person in the book... Old New York City, glamorous and enrapturing and harrowing for the faint of heart. Dawn Powell is a beautiful writer and one I will continue to re-visit.
And the characters develop very nicely---I was not so sure that I gave a hoot about Dennis at the beginning, but he grew into a real and interesting person before the novel was over.
There is a really nice scene in which he and another character spend a night bar-hopping in New York, heading home at dawn.
Not so sure that I like the way it ended---it came down to the last few sentances---but really, it makes Dennis seem even more like a real person and not just a character in a novel.
I've wanted to read Dawn Powell for years - one of those authors I was saving for a rainy day.
Hemingway considered Dawn Powell the best writer of their generation (or so I've read), and she is pretty great.
This novel will especially appeal to writers and those in the publishing industry.
It's about a novelist, Dennis Orphen, who writes a book loosely based on the life of a woman named Effie Callingham --- interestingly enough, the character of her husband is based on Hemingway.
There is a chapter from the publisher's point of view that feels as if it could have been written today, especially the bit about blurbs!
Dawn Powell said of this book that it is her "best, simplest, and most original." I can see why she admires it so much.It's not that there are plenty of passages that are either stirring in their compassion, savage in their satire, masterful in their prose, or stunning in their insight; rather, it's that whole pages go by that have this spell.
Even whole chapters cast this spell.
As a novel that exhibits Dawn Powell's mastery of her own talents, it's a breathtaking marvel.
I certainly trust Dawn Powell's writing, and it looks like I can certainly trust her own discernment about her own work.
I love Dawn Powell.
Love her.
Love her.
I don't know if it's because I read A Time to Be Born first or what, but I keep wanting every subsequent book of hers to be as explosively wonderful as that one.
Every time I read her I am flabbergasted again at her disappearance from historical memory as a great.
I read this one on a cross country flight in one sitting, so it went fast!
But I'd read it again to find out why that is.
Read this if anyone has ever written a book about you or if you've ever used anyone for your "material."

An engaging, if almost overwhelmingly bleak, satire about New York literary life. As with many books driven by the interior conflicts of its characters, the novel is best early on and tends to loose energy as it struggles to assemble its wide cast into a compelling plot. But the writing, at times, is hilarious and delightful.
Powells' biographer, Tim Page, has written of this book that "if there is another novel that manages simultaneously to be so funny and so sad, so riotous and so realistic, so acute and yet so accepting in the portrayal of flawed humankind, I have not yet found it." This is high praise for an obscure novel, but it is deserved.The protagonist of the book is Dennis Orphen, a young man who, modeled on Dawn Powell herself, has left Midwest Ohio to come to New York City in search of a literary career and of excitement.Orphen begins as a "proletarian" leftist type of writer but soon achieves some popular acclaim.
Powell creates such interesting characters, however, this wasn't my favorite of her books. This one is about a woman who is married to an author who dumps her so easily when his hormones get lit up by someone new, and then he becomes famous. She carries the flame for him for years afterwards, and another author, her "friend," uses her story for fodder for his next book. I couldn't relate; someone who I care for starts being unresponsive to me, I go cold turkey with my feelings for the pendejo, until I'm cured.
I read about Dawn Powell is some article about underrated writers. Others here have said Rory Gilmore mentioned her in the show and that makes sense. She was certainly a sharp writer. In this, she skewers the NY publishing world in the 1940s (or so) and she draws detailed portraits of a crowd of people I'm pretty sure I wouldn't want to encounter. It's also a poignant look at one woman's love (at one time real, now a nostalgic fantasy) for the Hemingway-like author who left her years earlier.
To be honest, it's been about a year since I read this novel (I just joined Good Reads yesterday), but I can whole-heartedly say that this is one of my favorite novels. Ever. You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll see yourself reflected in at least one of the characters. Powerful and poignant, put this one on your list.
Both Book Clubs 4 out of 5I greatly enjoyed this book though the beginning was a bit slow and getting used to her style plus what was going on took a push but it was worth it. A slice of New York literary life including many satirical characters that at times exasperate the reader but also holds a mirror to humanity’s many flaws and facets. Recommend, 1930’s New York
A Powell novel is easier to read than a Powell play, because of her preference for short lines. Hence the dialog is always ping-ponging. Yet, her novel like her plays comes from the same lowly view of humanity.
After torturing myself by reading Otessa Moshfegh's "Eileen" I had to read something that was the opposite of torture. Thank you, Dawn Powell!
A satire about the New York literary world written in the 30s. No one is safe, everyone is skewered. Fun, smart and satisfying.
Enjoyable but the flitting POV made it hard for me to grab hold til the end — then, magic. 3.5
Read this because Rollins mentioned it in Preferred Blur as being recommended to him by Janeane Garofalo. It had a few moments, but it took a while to grow on me.
My opinion holds firm -- this was quite a delightful book.Turn, Magic Wheel is one of Dawn Powell's New York novels and she personally considered this her best work.
Effie is the first wife of Andy Callingham, who has since become a rising star in the literary world, and he left her several years before the start of our story.
I'm certainly looking forward to discovering more of Dawn Powell's work, and I'm quite in the debt of my former co-worker for exposing me to her writing.Also, I might also direct you to a New York Times review of this book, published in 1936: http://www.nyt.net/books/98/11/15/spe...I don't know why this delights me so...
Want to read more by Dawn Powell
Of the three Powell novels I read in quick succession, this was the most archly satiric.
The feat in this was contriving the satire and humor around the poignant circumstances of a wronged woman, Effie Callingham, the long abiding, abandoned wife of international writing sensation Andrew Callingham, who is doubly wronged when her friend and confidant, Dennis Orphens writes a thinly disguised novel about her and her delusions about a husband who is a cad and narcissist.
Powell is able to mobilize a range of comedic tones—Chaucer, Wodehouse, Parker, Wolfe—while still allowing her characters some self dignity as they muddle through the choices they make.
It's the digressive and off-handed humor about New York and its gliterati that receive the more wickedly spiked turns of phrase.
Dawn Powell is a writer with an amazing and unique style. Although enjoyable, this is not her best work. I highly recommend "A Time To Be Born."
After her work fell out of print in the later 1960s after her death, it was no less an author than Gore Vidal who pushed to see her novels come back into print, in good part because he and many other writers had read them and realized that Powell offered a view of New York that was true to life but missing from the canon of American literature.
In this novel, Powell takes on the publishing world of New York and draws on personal experience to present a humorous if at times galling tale of intrigue between writers and how no one's history is, indeed, his or her own when it enters a larger narrative.
The guilty-wife feeling is better for the whole family, she reflected, that remorseful tender understanding, the seeing all his good traits because your badness has canceled his bad ones.
I hadn't heard of her at all before Turn, Magic Wheel was mentioned somewhere as a clever novel about the New York publishing industry.
Turn, Magic Wheel tells the story of a young author whose novel is just being published.
Meanwhile, the author juggles his experiences with his publisher, his mistress and his complex feelings for the friend he hurt so badly.Powell is a master of description, creating vivid characters who she describes without pity, but somehow also with a deep understanding.
This is a satire of the New York literary scene, circa 1925 or so, and I'm glad I read it on that basis alone.
However, the entire novel seemed a little too self-conscious, and I feel like there should be a rule against introducing new characters when you're 75 percent through the book.
There were some choice descriptions, though.
"Tony was extremely handsome in a hungry, girlish, petulant way, that he was tall, lean, and rubbery as though he might snap back to the little spoiled child he was at any minute..." -- you know you know men like that.
Unlike the first two Dawn Powell novels I read, which were set in Ohio, this one is set in New York City and focuses on book publishing. It's difficult to classify stylistically because Powell moves between lyrical and satirical, often quite abruptly -- and I tended to prefer the former -- but she captures the manic insanity of the publishing business and those who are drawn to it as writers and subjects.
Dawn Powell's own personal favorite of her New York novels, I loved this scathing send-up of the literary establishment. In the book, Dennis Orphen has written a novel loosely based on his friend Effie Callingham's life as a former wife of a Hemingway-esque character. At turns heartbreaking and hilarious, the book is a crystalline portrayal of the New York of yesteryear, with observations about artistic aspiration and the literary life that are startlingly contemporary.
Read in Novels, 1930-1942. Satire of the New York City literary scene in the 1930s. An entertaining read.
This is a little gem of a novel, Powell's seventh, and the author finally found her voice here. The satire of 1930s New York artistic life is scathing and hilarious, and the human elements are often touching and incredibly sad. Powell had a gift for very creative and original descriptive metaphors, and the entire work is beautifully written.
