https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/842395.The_Roman_Spring_of_Mrs_Stone
Three things happened to actress Karen Stone in quick succession: her husband died while they were touring around the world, her career is in tatters after disparaging reviews of her performance as a rather aged Juliet (Romeo and Juliet), and the onset of menopause.
Putting herself first, she played an adult version of King of the Mountain with blatant disregard for her colleagues' feelings, but now with her career in tatters, her husband gone and wealth her only asset she contemplates the wreckage time has wrought to her face and ageing body, and she realises that she is pretty much alone and bored in Rome.Enter the Contessa, someone whom Karen and her husband had met previously.
& so I thought to myself recently: Yes, a play.
I blame it on the magnificence of Raisin in the Sun, reading it recently--I know I must now immerse myself in these robust beautiful dramas that have that elusive double magic: the magic of the stage as it comes to life; the magic of the text that depicts almost everything in black and white symbols aka dialogue.I pride myself in having read most major works by Tennessee Williams.
As it turns out "Spring" is a novel--despite its size and physical shape, which screams out that its a play.
(My own.)It turns out Williams is one exemplary novelist.
And, may I say it, he's better at it then I would have thought.
Better than his dramatic plays?
After months of denying him, she finally takes him to her bed.Paolo asks her, Why did you want to know when my friend needed the money?Because you are very young, said Mrs Stone, and very foolish and very beautiful.
Or, will he be her new lover with no financial requirement like Paolo who would have left her for more money or a younger woman.
Am citit romanul acesta ca pe o novelizare a unei piese de teatru.
As minti sa nu spun ca mi-a placut mult (de aici si cele patru stele), dar aveam mereu in minte ideea ca, de fapt, ar trebui sa fie o piesa, nu un roman.
Williams scrie superb si cred ca abia acum pot sa ii apreciez in adevaratul sens al cuvantului geniul stilistic.
In piese, el creeaza un limbaj propriu al persoanjelor, iar in acest roman vocea narativa este si ea perfect individualizata stilistic.
Mi-a placut mult.
"Primăvara la Roma a doamnei Stone" - sau unde pot duce nesăbuinţa şi autoamăgirea, atunci când nu accepţi că ai îmbătrânit şi insişti să ignori distanţa dintre generaţii, căutând cu disperare un partener mult mai tânăr.De la sublim la ridicol nu este, aşa cum se va vedea, decât un foarte mic pas.De notat şi ecranizarea din 1961, cu Vivien Leigh şi Warren Beatty.
Tonda Williams, děda Robbieho Williamse, který napsal třeba Kočka do stanice Tramvaj, se v Římském jaru paní Kamenové věnuje stárnutí a je to hezký, vtipný i smutný zároveň.
Tak už to bývá, když stará slavná herečka dopádluje do Říma a začne randit s mladým italským hřebcem, kterému jde ovšem jen o peníze.
Všechno je navíc krásně aristokraticky přepálený a bonusem je bestiálně drtivý a smutný konec, umně schovaný v posledním odstavci.
Povšimněte si, že anglický název knihy (The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone) je pravděpodobně jediný název knihy v historii lidstva, který ukrývá Romana Zkamene!!
After reading this gem of a book, I was wishing Williams had written more novels.
Vivien Leigh gave a bravura performance as Mrs Stone in the early sixties, and I couldn’t help but think about her when reading the novel, but Williams’ own Mrs Stone may be less tragic, and more full of life and vibrancy, than Leigh’s version.
Interestingly, I saw the ending of the movie – which is very faithful to the ending of the book – as the symbolic approach of death.
But In Williams’ book, it can also be interpreted as the approach of a renewed freedom.

Those who like nice, neatly tied little pretty packages of stories will not appreciate this book because well it's not a simplistic book.
In fact, this book is pretty intense!
Not a fairy tale, that's for sure.
More of a cautionary tale for its times.
I found this book interesting in the way that it was not written in a prurient fashion, but one that rather 'bares' the souls of people instead.
The film adaptations were interesting, too.
The latter, is closer to the book, that much I will tell you without giving out spoilers.
Years ago a professor remarked in class that there are no heroines in literature above the age of 30. So far I've only been able to come up with Mrs. Dalloway, and now Mrs. Stone. An interesting character study of an aging actress attempting to cope with her loss of beauty and importance, this novella must be one of the first pieces of literature to mention menopause.
A motto for those with imposter syndrome: "What's talent but the ability to get away with something?" The novel follows the purposeless (but not directionless) "drift" of a ruthless, career-driven actress now retired and in her 50s (retired because the tradition of playing Juliet until an actress is about to drop dead no longer works these days, sadly), who has to pay young men to date her.
I ask, why doesn't she just go with men her own age?
Beauty and sordid encounters (the one with the other) are all that can stop her drift into meaningless nothingness.
Such incisive writing, and beautiful in so many ways, but then the awful ending that I should have seen coming right from the first, that anyone would have seen we were headed for, but not me, I always want things to end well.
Worst of all, when I was done, it was hard not to think that Mrs. Stone was more like a gay man of that era than a woman, but that only made me feel sexist for having such a thought.
But that's my fault for wanting the character to come out alright, when life is not always like that, is it?
This book is all about two simple, powerful fundamentals of every person's life: The relationship between our present and our past, and the relationship between our memories and the truth.Mrs. Stone is in denial, sort of.
She is depressed, and she is listless, and she doesn't know how she got here.
She used to be, or so she says, someone important.
Someone worth watching.
Here, she can escape her past and be her own new person.But Rome is old, and history is in its bones.
It doesn't easily brush aside the past as much as America does.
And it's always watching...
A failing star is faced with a life-style change when her rich husband suddenly dies while they are en route to Italy. She then sets off in a series of flings with gigolos found for her by an aging contessa. Each contact spirals further out of control until she becomes obsessed with one young man, who initially treats her well, but then with disdain.A movie was made based on this book and it is available at YouTube
Although Tennesee Williams is most well-known as a playwrite, this novella was the first thing I read by Williams. An aging actress has an "All About Eve-esque" crisis when she retires from the stage. She travels to Roma and deals with her loss of youth, beauty, and career. Mrs. Stone has an affair with a young Italian hottie who uses Mrs. Stone as his sugar mama. I also loved the movie version of this book starring Helen Mirren and Anne Bancroft.
Morals – Having sex with salacious, impoverished, macho hunks stops time and cures loneliness. Paying for love is degrading. I'm half in agreement, and totally in love with Tennessee Williams. The unique talent who hasn't written a thing I haven't liked.
I love stories of women falling from eminence and beauty. Is that depressing?
Lahr discusses the novel at length in the context of Williams' life, together with many other works of this American writer.Williams wrote "The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone" in the late 1940s while in Rome following the success of "A Streetcar Named Desire".
She needs to learn and to pursue what she wants out of life.Most of the book revolves around Mrs. Stone's affair with a young gigolo, Paolo.
Williams' book echoes these themes, but Mrs Stone finds herself pursuing sexuality.
This is a story for the ages, the story of feeling adrift, the story of growing older but none the wiser, the story that every one of us will live at one point.
I appreciate people that say that they love getting older and that they look forward to old age, but I almost always think that it’s a facade.Tennessee Williams captures in just under 200 pages the loss people feel when they give up their chosen profession and when they become aware that they are closer to death than to birth.Who is Mrs. Stone?The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone is the story of a woman in her fifties, a well known international actress, that just recently left the spotlight.
This was a punch of a book. An aging stage actress with a limited inner life and a giggolo in Rome. It was a heartbreaking gem of a book and many times I stopped to re- read simple sentences that packed quite the punch.
Yikes. How elegantly corrupt.
Like some of his plays, a deeper investigation of life lurks below the seeming “light” title.Protagonist: Mrs. Stone.
Socialite.Plot: Mrs. Stone begins her “new life” of retired leisure in Rome.Well .
That horrible abyss which Nietzsche described as such a terror that humans create whatever diversions or illusions they can in order to avoid it.Perhaps Rome, Paolo, the Contessa, etc., were the worst possible acquaintances to make upon retirement.
Stone .
becomes Mrs. Stone after all—when this Roman Spring ends.This little fiction not only entertains but also provides a cautionary tale.
I really liked the descriptions of Rome. The best part of this book that was the most haunting for me was the exhausted self awareness of the sad, aging heroine. She doesn't have any illusions, but can't stop herself from succumbing to temptation and happiness that she knows will be fleeting. It also doesn't stop the end from being awful. This is the kind of book I kept thinking about for a while afterward.
I will readily admit that for some few years when still in the flower of my youth, I believed this book to be somehow related to the movie Roman Holiday. Yes, I realize the stories are fairly-- well, perhaps egregiously different. Nonetheless, since Hollywood hid the involvement of Dalton Trumbo all those years, how was I to know??In any case, this is a splendid little work by Tenn. Williams that comes highly recommendef, dahlin'..
Just a little book but beautifully written. Williams captures the angst of Mrs Stone as she deals with widowhood, her retirement from the stage and a much younger Italian lover. Really worth reading.
Exceptionally beautiful prose. Thematically, this parallels the pains of the aging theater star played by Bette Davis—charming even when cynical—in "All About Eve", which, may be the best written film of all time.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
O poveste de dragoste între o văduvă bogată, americană, fostă actriță destul de celebră și un tânăr gigolo, italian, a cărui viață se bazează pe cucerirea doamnelor în vârstă și „sărăcirea” lor atât cât îi permite relația. În subtext, o poveste despre ratare, despre ieșirea de pe scenă și frica de eșec și moarte. Bine scris, romanul nu reușește totuși să iasă din tiparele melodramatice ale relației dintre personajele principale. Pare perfect pentru scenariul unui film pe care nu cred că l-aș vedea.
Mrs Stone affects neither to know nor to care, but nor does she know what else to do though many men of her own age would be only too pleased to esquire her; also she’s not altogether stupid and beginning to see the trap that’s being laid for her, or she’s laid for herself by withdrawing from the concealments of a public existence, and finally throws all caution over the balcony of her apartment raised like the eyrie of a bird of prey above the temptations of the Spanish Steps.
The not very veiled suggestion here is that Mrs Stone is going to have her throat cut, or worse.
Tennessee Williams describes the sad case of a woman who has acquired a young Italian lover 30 years her junior.
The Roman world he describes is bizarre and fascinating.
A decrepit and impoverished contessa acquires a stable of gigolos, splitting their financial takes with her.
The gigolos move easily and shamelessly between male and female patrons.Now that I have read a few Tennessee Williams works, I can see that he has many female characters who have "lost" their young good looks, but not their rapacious appetites.
This is an intriguing quick read, but not one of TW's finest works.
