https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444388.The_Uses_of_Enchantment
The author says this is incredibly important as it allows children to know the world depicted is not real and so is a safe place for them to engage their wish-fulfilment – in all its excess and sometimes in all its horror.The author has very few nice things to say about Perrault, someone who ‘did a Disney’ to French fairy tales.
Bauman talks about this fairy tale in Moral Blindness – how the lesson of the story is that everyone needs somewhere to be able to hide their deepest secrets and that being prepared to accept that people – even people you love very much – should be allowed room to conceal some things from you is actually an act of true love.
However, it seems we--modern us--are in part responsible for turning fairy tales into those kind of stories because they weren't like that originally.In this book Bettelheim explores how deeply significant these seemingly out-of-touch with the present world stories are for children's development.One of the things we need to understand, he says, is that in their original form, before being twisted into "clean" stories by Disney, fairy tales help children face their earliest and darkest of fears.
I have a whole new sense of how fairy tales work and why they have survived through history after reading this book, and if you feel like discovering a whole new level into the complexity of these well-worn and told stories I recommend you to read this book.
This was the first book which assured me that my enduring interest in fairy tales was scholarly and not something to be scoffed at as juvenile.
Now there are fairy tale studies by the dozen, and many are fascinating: but Bettelheim is the first person who opened the door for me, therefore this book holds a special place in my heart.I have read that, in the years since this book's publication, Bettelheim's analysis has been questioned.
However, if you are new to the field of fairy tale studies, this may be the place to start.
Well, to be entirely fair, I did feel pretty strange and uncomfortable mostly the first time I read The Uses of Enchantment for that course I was taking, and now, more than thirty years after that university level perusal, I no longer really feel all that massively uncomfortable, I just feel as though Bruno Bettelheim is a bit over-the-top with his Freudian fairy tale analyses and I can at least partially enjoy and also find some rather perverse humour in just how sexually charged the author seems to consider many if not most fairy tales to be and in their entirety (in other words, I find the author's one-sidedness of interpretation rather hilarious and yes also a bit sad, as The Uses of Enchantment really does not seem to show much if any possibility that there are different manners of interpretation possible and probable, that everything is somehow psychologically based on sex and on Freud's attitudes towards sex).Now if I were just ranking The Uses of Enchantment for its text and only for its text, I would most probably be rating it with a low three stars (readable but with some definite potential issues and problems).
علاقه من به موضوعات رازآمیز و جادویی بهخاطر ارتباطشان با استعاره و نماد است. برای کلام پنهانشان که امری ساده را عمیق و معنادار میکند و این خاصیت ذهن و روان انسان است که شاید حتی بیاختیار معنایی بگذارد در دل یک قصهی عامیانه و یا شاید آدمهایی پیدا شوند که معنایی از دل سادگی پریانهها بیرون بکشند. هر کدام از اینها که باشد، من را مجاب میکند به خواندنشان. افسون افسانهها بررسی عمیق و مفصلی درباره قصههای پریان است. شاید برایمان سؤال باشد که چرا قصههایی که در کودکی شنیدهایم پر از نامادریهای بدجنس و جادوگ
افسون افسانه‌ها بررسی عمیق و مفصلی درباره قصه‌های پریان است.
بتلهایم می‌گوید: «کودک امروز بیشتر مواقع خود را تنها احساس می‌کند.
همانگونه که کودک نیز بیش از بزرگسالان با این چیزها احساس نزدیکی می‌کند.
سرنوشت این قهرمانان، کودک را متقاعد می‌کند که اگر چه او نیز همچون آنان خود را در زندگی موجودی رانده و تنها احساس می‌کند که در تاریکی کورمال می‌رود، اما مانند آنان در مسیر زندگی گام‌به‌گام راهنمایی خواهد شد و به هنگام نیاز به کمکش خواهند آمد.
امروز حتی بیش از گذشته کودک نیاز به اطمینان خاطر دارد.
The number three in fairy tales is always a reference to the penis with its two testicles.
The frog in that tale being a metaphor for a penis - it actually makes a lot of sense, in context.
This book is an important stepping-stone on the path of fairy tale scholarship, and should be read for that reason if you're interested in the subject.
The worst, the absolute worst thing a person can do if he or she is interested in analyzing the content of fairy tales is to have this be the only book they ever read on the subject.
His understanding of the child-brain, its id, and ego, and super-ego, and how it develops, or doesn’t, and the way fairy tales dis- and enchant it will make you want to go out and grab a kid and read it Cinderella--not the Disney version--the real one where the step-sisters cut their toes off to fit the glass “slipper-vagina,” and not feel weird about doing it.
But. Before you grab that kid, bear in mind that all fairy tales, according to the Freud-trained Bettelheim, are pretty much Oedipal conflicts that arouse too many unmentionable sub-conflicts to mention here, that you are really reading him or her stories about fathers and daughters and mothers and sons, and their vaginas and penises.
Saldainis, o ne knyga. Privaloma literatūra visiems jauniems tėvams ir seneliams.
This book details (and I mean DEATAILS) his view of the importance of fairy tales to children's subconscious.
And it wasn't so much that I disagreed with everything he had to say about fairy tales, because I DID learn a lot of fascinating things.
Its more like I don't like the absoluteness of his statements, that children had basically the same subconscious needs and will get the same thing out of fairy tales that all children get.
Yes, fairy tales are important and can teach many things in many different ways.
But I'm on the side of individual reader interpretation, and what a child needs in literature, well, he or she will seek that out.
Perish the fucking thought, people might not see getting married and ruling a kingdom as emblematic of self-actualization, a successfully integrated personality, or whatever else you want to call it.• For the first chunk of the book, he ignores the historical context of the stories near-completely.
If you like fairy tales and would like to know what the critical discussion around them is, I actually would recommend giving this a look, because you should know what the major talking-points are.
Anyone who needs to be convinced that the protagonist of a children's story should always solve his or her own problems without adult help should read this book.
If you can get past the outdated Freudian theory, this book is a fascinating examination of fairy tale motifs and how they help children come to terms with sibling rivalry, fear of abandonment, and other anxieties children face on the road to maturity.
He makes a compelling case for how fairy tales help children grow emotionally, and how violence in fairy tales meets certain psychological needs and should not necessarily be sanitized for the young reader.
I really liked the book since it was so informative on the subject of fairy tales and how they can be beneficial to children. I also did not know how to start reading about fairy tales' criticism, so as a beginning it helped my initiation to the subject.I'd recommend it to people who want to write something on fairy tales and how they can help children get over their psychological and also oedipal problem, if there are any.
Este livro é adequado quem gosta de contos de fadas e de saber os aspectos submersos sobre eles, ou seja, em que medida ajuda no desenvolvimento cognitivo da criança. Para além disso, fala de como os contos de fadas são todos pensados de uma forma inteligente e refletem na vida real das crianças.
Labiausiai patiko todėl, kad patvirtino mano požiūrį, jog viskas gerai su toms stebuklinėm pasakom, per daug lyčių vaidmenų jos neformuoja, nebent tėvai patys tendencingai parenka, kad mergaitėms skaitysim tik apie princeses, o berniukams - tik ne apie princeses :) Įdomiai parašyta knyga, skaityti buvo gana lengva.
Bettelheim believes that fairy tales -- he focuses on the Grimm brothers', but any real fairy tale -- are terrifically helpful to children as they work through the problems (large and small, real or imagined) in their lives.
"Children feel real rage, children have real experience of evil.
If well-meaning people remove the rage and evil from stories, children believe they alone experience these feelings.
They will grow up believing that they are monsters." Bettleheim distinguishes between real fairy tales and other kinds of stories -- "In a fairy tale, all the characters -- the princess, the prince, the wicked stepmother, the witch, the little boy and the little girl -- are all the child hearing the story.
As a literary work, The Uses of Enchantment is a bit of a classic, and if you’re a first year English Lit student wondering why Red Riding Hood’s signature colour signifies her coming to sexual maturity, well, it’s got you covered.Reading it now, eh.
I can appreciate some of the stories he tells about the way people relate to stories, even if the psychoanalysis behind it is laughable at times.
I haven’t read Freud for myself, just absorbed a healthy disdain through my mother and what I encountered as a lit student.) Some of his comments on why fairytales endure while modern morality stories don’t work, too.
I also disliked Bettelheim's analysis of Charles Perrault and his tales in general---to say that they're flippant and mocking is not really fair and it also shows a lack of research, given that Perrault was a man, posing as a woman (Mother Goose) and writing in a genre dominated by women---who he counted as his colleagues.
While parts of this book were interesting and I agree with Bettelheim's argument as a whole, and I accept that this text is dated by now, I honestly feel that other parts, well, I could have written them myself...and without being a psychologist.

O livro de Bettelheim, é verdadeiramente um livro surpreendente, ele mostra que os contos de fadas têm tanto sucesso entre as crianças por que representam elas mesmas, em seus incoscientes principalmente.Mostra que as madrastas más são na verdade suas mães, a parte ruim delas, e que os conflitos edipianos são centro de várias histórias, mostra versões que eu não conhecia, mostra o contexto histórico em que os contos foram criados e em que ajudam as crianças.
em João e o Pé de Feijão é uma história masculina que ajuda os meninos a formarem sua masculinidade.
Leia os livros de Marie-Louise von Franz. Por favor.
Au fost odată ca niciodată basmele, în prezent istorii demodate și desconsiderate pentru simplism și cruzime, fără de care însă - zice Bruno și parcă-l cred - nu ne mai făceam noi mari. Sau, mai exact, nu ne mai făceam bine. Basmele se adresează angoaselor și meschinăriilor inconștiente din fiecare, ne educă discret și fără cicăleală, ne asigură subliminal că tot ce ni se întâmplă (pierderi, obstacole, amenințări, conflicte) ține de firescul vieții, la fel ca și finalul favorabil nouă - numai de nu ne-am abate atât de des de la cărare.
Pasakos mus lydi nuo pat mažų dienų, kai tėvai, norėdami užmigdyti, jas sekdavo prieš miegą.
Šioje knygoje yra analizuojama ta pasakos pusė, kuri paslėpta po įvairiais simboliais.
Daugeliu atveju autorius pasakas sieja su paauglių lytine branda, santykiais su tėvais ir kitais brandos aspektais.
Tekstai įdomūs, daugelis įžvalgų stebina, kaip kad "Raudonkepuraitėje" kalbama apie žmogaus aistras, oralinį godumą, agresiją ir pradėjusios bręsti mergaitės lytinius troškimus".
Patiko tai, kad autorius analizuodamas daugiau dėmesio skiria pirminiams pasakų užrašymams, apie kuriuos daugelis mūsų nežino.
Perskaičius šią knygą į pasakas tikrai nebegalėsiu žiūrėti taip, kaip ankščiau, bet nesigailiu, kad susigundžiau ją perskaityti.
Il saggio comunque è molto interessante e ha aperto un mondo che fino a quel momento era per me sconosciuto!
Mi ha permesso di farmi tantissime domande anche sulla mia crescita personale e in alcuni casi, sono riuscita a trovare delle risposte a domande che mi assillano da tempo.
Mi sono divertita un mondo ha leggere delle fiabe da me da sempre adorate, di come siamo state psicanalizzate così a fondo e con tanto fervore.
Personalmente in alcuni casi, ho preferito godermi la fiaba in sé e non il significato psicologico a lei associato.
Il libro in questione è stato comunque illuminante e istruttivo da leggere!
Good in that it gets you interested in the original versions of stories like Cinderella, Snow White, etc.
One of my favorites-- instead of:"And then they all lived happily ever after."some stories end with:"If they have not died, they are still alive."Haha grim but true, that!The main problem I had with this book is Bettelheim s psychoanalytic approach.
You feel as though he's using one set of fairy tales to explain another.Also I would've liked to see more thought put into the rigid gender norms and overall sexism all these stories embody.
Bettelheim recommends telling tales instead of reading them.
The large scheme of the book I enjoyed: the exploration of the similar themes expressed in fairy tales that reflect the human race's views on morals and the human experience.
So STEP AWAY from the Freudian analysis, dude.) While I enjoy the exploration of the broader themes of myths and fairy tales (which is why I had initially read Campbell), this book relied WAY too much on Freud.
Yeah, Disney, what were you thinking taking all the deep, Freudian psychoanalysis out of our fairy tales so I can now no longer achieve self-fulfillment?
Bettelheim's Uses of Enchantment is one of those classic pieces of criticism that are both absolutely essential and hopelessly outdated.
Unfortunately, as he gets into the nitty gritty of looking at the stories themselves, as is so often the case with overtly Freudian work, it's frustrating how often the call for applicability morphs into a discussion of the sexual undercurrents of the story.
I'm certainly not denying that a sexual reading of fairy tales isn't valid, useful, or even interesting.
Certainly these do exist, but I suspect that fairy tales are even more flexible than Bettelheim gives them credit for.
Una obra magnífica, aunque posiblemente solo realmente apta para psicólogos, estudiantes de psicología y aficionados acerrimos a la misma.
Se trata del analisis completo y minucioso del simbolismo de los cuentos de hadas más conocidos y populares del imaginario europeo occidental desde la perspectiva psicoanalítica.Olvidense de la inocencia suprema de los héroes de los cuentos de su infancia: ellos están obsesionados con la madre y la oralidad, tienen marcadisimos complejos de edipo e incluso sufren de envidia del pene...
Y todo esto, trabajando para liberar las pulsiones inconscientes de nuestros pequeños, que entienden el auténtico significado del cuento a un nivel preconsciente.En resumen, un trabajo interesante y que da que pensar, escrito con las palabras justas, estemos o no de acuerdo con las teorías del psicoanálisis.
Bettelheim is clearly knowledgeable and has studied fairy tales for quite some time.
However, I found his dependence on the psychological beliefs of Freud too heavy.
He claims that what is special about fairy tales is that they meet a child where he/she is and gives them whatever it is that they need at the time.
He then, though, goes on to shoot his self in the foot by analyzing several different fairy tales through his Freud colored glasses, diminishing most moral and virtuous lesson found in fairy tales.
According to his analysis, most fairy tales boil down to sex (Freud)!
Are all psychiatrists obssessed with sex?
It would seem that all fairy folk tales (as he calls them)are telling us on a subconscious level how to grow up to become psychologically mature and have good sex lives.
I beg to differ: Bettelheim missed the Welsh tale of Sir Gawain and the Loathely Lady, in which it is the bride who is loathesome and monstrous.I was looking for something that would give me more information on the history and development of fairy tales.
Should have looked more carefully at the author's bio.
Heavily Freudian, but a teaspoon of salt will help the Bettelheim go down. Offers much insight into the positive ways children interact psychologically with fairy tales and fairy tale tellers.
