https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/917918.The_Chalet_Girls_in_Camp
Whether it was from the Robin singing one of her Raising-Lazarus-esque songs or to Joey hiding behind a curtain in Penny Rest, Brent-Dyer was not afraid of wholeheartedly making her point.
It's books like this that left me convinced of the cannibalistic nature of Pikes, of the need to loosen guy ropes in the rain, and of the need to not, er, annoy the local insect life.And it's books like this that leave me in love with Brent-Dyer and leave me desperate, so very desperate, to go and sing songs around a campfire in the middle of Austria.
I know that many people talk a lot of nonsense about women being emancipated from such "drudgery." Believe me, girls, the woman who is above tending her husband and children or - if God does not give her those - helping other women who need such help, is a poor creature, developed on one side only.
And woman, when she ties to ignore the human side of life, is deliberately deforming her nature."Fuck you, Brent-Dyer, you never criticised an old Chaletian who got married and had children right out of school instead of developing her intellect and career of deforming her nature by not developing *that* side of herself, which surely the same God, if any, gave her?Grr.
My memories of Guide camp are of mornings and afternoons spent hunting for fallen wood with which to make baggage racks and wash-stands, of organised team games, of making rope ladders and bridges, The Chalet School girls go fishing, engage in a spot of flag-wagging” (semaphore?) and wash and starch their laundry.
Thinking further along that line of thought; I may have missed it, but I don’t remember seeing any mention of lavatory facilities (we dug a series of pit latrines in a ‘quiet’ spot).This reads like a series of gripes; which is not what I intended.
She sketches out a perfectly wonderful setting for the camp: a beautiful lake ringed round by mountains, a little distance away from a village where the girls go to fetch supplies and buy sundry items like chocolate.
Through it all, Brent-Dyer adds shades and colours to her characters, as they pull pranks on one another or - in the case of the three accompanying mistresses - discuss their charges with a welcome hint of sarcasm and exasperation.Evocative, charming, and a lovely little holiday away from the hustle and bustle of a Chalet School term.
I still read most Chalet books with the same joy (and frequently frustration - 'We made the Fourth Form the limit' vs the number of characters apparently in the Third) I had as a child.
And this book is the one most affected, because I think I'm safe in saying I now have about twenty times more experience than EBD had in running guide camps.So when I read this now, I have a huge struggle to park everything I know about guide camps and just go with the story.
The Chalet Girls in Camp is the most honest of the lot since it does what it says on the tin, meaning we're treated to the very best Elinor Brent-Dyer has to offer - long descriptions of meals and food, domestic work, treasure hunts - and this time it's contextualized enough to make sense.
I loved this also for personal reasons - it reminded me so much of the wonderful camaraderie and sense of escapism I would feel every time I went to camp (and I did go to camp twice a year for over ten years).
Another tale of Jo and the gang, as this time they go camping. I love these tales-from-another-time, although I don't necessarily agree with some of the ideas about women, marriage and how it effectively ends their careers!
Another in my own growing collection of Chalet school books. This one is from earlier in the series, and Jo and the girls are off on a guides camp. Many exciting adventures ensue.
Another classic story. Loved the fishing expedition and funny outcome! Some funny episodes with Jo falling down the hole and the girls washing their clothes with cornflour! Loved it!
As always very easy to read. The world was so very different back then so it is good to read something so wholesome just to put myself back in an even keel.
This was one of my favourites - and now I'm home I see that I DO own a copy! Hurrah! Time for a re-read, most definitely :)
