https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118249.The_Mahabharata
If any book, other than Victor Hugo's 'Les Miserables' and Tolstoy's 'Resurrection', has captured the acute human dilemmas and paradoxes, the powerful and unresolvable human conflicts between good versus good, it is this book, 'Mahabharata'.
Written such a long time ago, it is a clear proof that the basic human nature has not changed much since, and will probably remain the same way as long as Man exists.The most tormenting part is when the warrior Arjuna is torn between two equally good causes that are equally strong: on one hand, he has to stand up for his land; on the other hand, he wants to refrain from hurting his cousins.
Yang unik adalah Pandu yang dikutuk akan meninggal saat bersenggama, namun beruntung sekali Kunthi istrinya pernah mendapat berkat sehingga bisa memanggil Dewa untuk mendapat anak dari mereka.
Jika Kunthi mengakui keberadaan Karna, mengingat semua putranya lahir dari ayah yang berbeda, maka bisa jadi dia tidak akan mati di tangan Arjuna dan Yudistira tidak akan meratapi kematian orang yang seharusnya menjadi kakak sulungnya itu.
Dalam pertunjukan tersebut diceritakan bagaimana Karna berkata bahwa satu-satunya alasan Kunthi memintanya tidak berperang melawan Pandawa adalah demi keselamatan kelima putranya sementara di buku ini Karna lebih memilih berperang bersama Duryudana karena dia telah mengucapkan sumpah untuk berperang di pihak sepupunya tersebut.
In Narayan’s telling, it’s reduced to:When Arjuna fell into a silence after exhausting his feelings, Krishna quietly said, “You are stricken with grief at the thought of those who deserve no consideration.”Krishna then began to preach in gentle tones, a profound philosophy of detached conduct.
He defined the true nature of personality, its scope and stature in relation to society, the world, and God, and of existence and death.
These men who stand before you are already slain through their own karma, you will be only an instrument of their destruction.”“O Great God,” said Arjuna, “my weakness has passed.
A great easy to read version of the story. Everything that is out there is in here...what is not here, is nowhere.
best mahabharatha book for beginners
As I have read almost the entire collection of R K NARAYAN, I have just kept the Indian epics away for a while to prepare my mind amidst the hectic work.
The amount of time I was on contemplation really proved how depth the content were and it was not just the story that was so gripping , but also the life lessons one could take away from it.
Although things weren't so apparent , I kept brooding over all the stuffs depicted in the story.
I kept brooding over duriyodhana's and Sakuni's deceit that made pandava's life miserable.
many years ago, a friend of mine was trying to find a complete translation of mahabarata --the original proses by bagawan vyasa and later additionals-- with no luck!He persistently asked me to help out by (at the least) narrate him the storyline briefly from an indonesian adaptation (baratayuda) which was a great pain for me...afraid that his curiosity would kill him...j/k duh, i lent him this copy, and it appeased his curiosity.
i cant compare it with the real one since i havent read it (nor do i have the intention of reading the entire never-ending prose)...and the indian tv series i watched a long time ago is too vague for a medium of comparison...so based on my friend's situation, this book is really really helpful!
This shortened version must have taken all the juice out of the original. It gave me very little except for a family tree of over 20 names who apart from Bhisma, Krishna and Arjuna left few impressions of themselves apart from their names. I'd try the longer version (for which this could serve as a summary if you want to prepare) or don't try it at all..
a short and general brief to get to know Mahabharata. I get to read this in order to fully understand the next book I wanna read: Bilangan Fu by Ayu Utami & Centhini: Kekasih yang Tersembunyi by Elizabeth D. Inandiak.And so I started my journey.
This is definitely more of a broad overview than an exact translation, but it's a good primer if you don't want to read the complete Mahabharata.
Now I want to read a more extended version.although even the shortened version felt very reminiscent of the kinds of digressions which are in the Iliad.
A useful introduction to the epic before reading the full version!
I read this for my Myth & Culture class and found it very enjoyable. There are some very important life lessons to be learned from this epic.
Its an epic rewritten in a lucid way....the depth of it is covered nicely but not the width....This book is for who want know the abstract view of the original mahabharata..
Clearly, it must have been a gargantuan task for the author, R.K. Narayan who has beautifully produced this book with compressed these verses into an intriguing novelized narration of the epic by focusing on the important features and disregarding marginal characters and events.
Due to a limitation to keep it short, R.K. Narayan has described some scenes and characters vividly whereas others are not.
In the end, I would say that even though this narrative is not complete but this book sufficiently serves as a very good primer particularly, if you are not familiar with the Mahabharata and would like to familiarize yourself with it.
Later, my brother had an illustrated version of the Mahabharata that I read along with him as a young teenager.
He retained many of the stories I remembered from the show and my brother's illustrated book and introduced me to a lot of other angles that I did not know.
This novelization also did a good job of capturing the fickle nature of Dritharashtra.What I would have liked improved would have been the treatment of the Kauravas (bad guys).
I really would have liked to know more about their motivations.Overall, a really nice re-introduction to the Mahabharata for me.
Saya penyuka kisah pewayangan sejak kecil, maka plot utama epos ini cukup saya kenal.
Saya bisa katakan, untuk buku setipis ini, Narayan tidak meninggalkan satu pun titik penting dalam plot.
Semua rangkaian aksi-reaksi-konsekuensi yang membentuk wajah epos ini dijalin dengan terampil.
Epos ini tidak kehilangan keagungannya dalam tata penuturan populer Narayan.
Namun itu semua tak bisa kita nikmati tanpa kemampuan dan wawasan mumpuni Ibu Nin Bakdi Soemanto.
Saya juga membaca buku ini dalam versi Bahasa Inggris dan saya bandingkan tuturannya.
I was excited to read this shortened version of the Mahabharata after reading the excellent abbreviated version of the Ramayana by R.K. Narayan.
To be fair--I was a lot more familiar with the Mahabharata due to reading Grant Morrison's 18 Days (which is currently incomplete) and God Talks with Arjuna (an analysis of The Bhagavad Gita).
With those being much more nuanced and flourishing, this adaptation seemed very paint by numbers.The Ramayana had a lot of flair--with the author adding colorful commentary and breaking the fourth-wall.
This adaptation seemed much more dryer and unsurprising, perhaps because I was already a bit more familiar with the story.
Intertwined with this basic plot are philosophical, spiritual and historical musings on life, love, family, respect, duty, vengeance and forgiveness (amongst many others) all conveniently abridged in a palatable retelling of the huge Sanskrit scripture.Since it is a retelling and heavily summarised, it would be unjust to judge this as a proper novel.
Instead, I see it almost as non-fiction and a gateway to a layman's understanding to the roots of Indian culture.
I picked this book for my admiration for this epic and how much I had enjoyed R.
Mahabharata was one of the first books as a child, and I can still recount the small anecdotes and accidents that the epic is famous for.
Although, I have a lot of respect for Narayan, this book is more of a boring timeline and I can place no association of this with the 'story.' If you want to know the story in an abridged version, I would rather recommend you to ask your grandparents or somebody you know who has read it to tell it to you rather than read this.
A classic for all ages past, present and to comeR. K. Narayan's version self admittedly comprises of the essential story that forms the hundred thousand verse epic of the Mahabharata. Though the epic is colossal abounding in details on all topics, the core of the story which is essentially a story of war, is nevertheless brilliantly condensed by the author in the form of a gripping narrative. A timeless classic.
I found this in a used book store and understand it is a greatly condensed version of an epic historical text. With that understanding I am using it as an introduction for other readings later on. I am very pleased with the accessibility in this version and am developing an overall understanding of the tales hoping to explore in more depth at later time. Well done!
Exactly what I was looking for. An introduction to the epic with just the major plotline and characters. I would not feel left out now whenever mentions from the Mahabharat spring up.R K Narayan's writing is always a breeze to read through. I'll probably end up reading most of his work someday.
A Master TouchExcellent telling - Narayan has a master eye for details and balance. The ability to encapsulate the action of a story or dialog and then the ability to draw all together....
Too short, just as the title says. Suited for light reading.
Mahabharata by C. Rajagopalachari is a more detailed version for those who want to dig a little deeper.
Sebuah folklore yang menarik dengan cerita yang sangat imajinatif
Short and sweet rendition of an ancient epic. It’s concise yet awe inspiring. Provides the highlights and major moments of the story.
engaged with it here, in my own way that really isnt much of a review:https://geotrickster.com/2018/08/26/t...
Narayan opens this work with a quote by Vyasa which provides a good introduction in and of itself: “The lamp of history illumines the ‘whole mansion of the womb of Nature.’ (19)There are glimpses into the past and present culture, such as the brief passage: “Entrusting her twins to the care of Kunthi, Madri ascended the funeral pyre along with her husband and ended her life.” (30) This work is not simply a religious text, but a social and cultural archive of norms that serve as examples for human behavior.Additionally, this work is a wealth of wisdom.
