https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781110.Fever_1793
Many years ago I took my now adult kids out of public school to home-school them, and this was one of the first books I bought to add to their reading curriculum and library when I was looking for entertaining ways to teach history.
But fourteen-year-old Mattie Cook doesn't get a moment to mourn the passing of her childhood playmate.
But when the fever begins to strike closer to home, Mattie's struggle to build a new life must give way to a new fight-the fight to stay alive.I HIGHLY recommend this for readers of all ages.Purchase on Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004...
Mattie’s day dreams are shattered when the epidemic hits.Mattie’s mother falls ill with yellow fever and Mattie and her grandfather flee the city to take refuge in the country.As they never make it to their destination, uncontrollable hardships fall on Mattie and her grandfather.
When Mattie finally returns to the city she finds it deserted and the coffeehouse ransacked.Mattie tries to find the courage to manage her life and the coffeehouse after the yellow fever has taken everything away.This is the third novel by Laurie Halse Anderson that I have had a chance to read.
–Benjamin Franklin 			 Poor Richard’s Almanac, 1733Get to know Mattie and her family in this historical young adult fiction novel.
In the next few days things change very quickly for this family and other Philadelphia residents, as it is thought that a ship docked at the harbour brought mosquitos along that infected people with Yellow Fever.
-Dr. Adam Kuhn, Philadelphia, 1793 As this story unfolds you will find out what happens to this family and how this young girl with some help struggles, persists through and helps others in need in this tragic time.
If interested, you can learn more about the yellow fever epidemic of 1793 by clicking HERE.As a reader and a parent who supports academic success, I can acknowledge the benefits of educating youth via literature.
Fever 1793 was one of the titles required for my son's summer reading.
But if history teaches us anything, it's the important knowledge that people can and do survive horrors of all kinds, and that little tidbit is priceless.My boy's rating of Fever 1793 is one star.
My boy's got some opinions!07/31/2015:July 2015: Reading along with my son for his required summer reading.
Fever 1793 is one of the rare children's novels that I will recommend to adults to read.
As a middle school English teacher, reading children's and young adult fiction is part of the job.
They develop a newfound respect for a character in the story who is either old or diseased.
It is about Mattie Cook, who is initially unhappy with her mom, but learns to love her when she might lose her.
She might lose her because the story takes place during the yellow fever epidemic of 1793 in Philadelphia.
I got more into the book as time went by, and wound up actually liking it.
When you read this book it does at first seem like this another old boring school book, but then you get more into it and realize that it is actually interesting.
So not only is this book about a disease that took over at one point in time, but it's also about how this disease brought families closer together.
This book was just different and it opened my eyes up to books like this that I have never thought that I would ever want to read in my life.
The reason I decided to place a hold for this book was to learn a bit about the worst epidemic that has hit the U.S., but knew I didn't have time to read a big non-fiction book.The main character of this story, Mattie, is an obedient, hard working, and resilient 14 year old teen.
I highly recommend this book to anyone ranging from middle school and up or anyone who enjoys learning about American History.
In the future, I hope to learn more about this Yellow Fever epidemic and feel I have a decent amount of knowledge on the topic.

A delicious and addictive book about a young teen forced to become an adult overnight when she is left alone during the yellow fever outbreak in the 1700s.
The author researched this very well, and the book is accurate in it's details.
Although the book is very sad, there is a lot of heart warming moments, and you learn to appreciate the way humans react in a crisis.
This is one of those books I didnt want to end.
This was found in the young adult section at the library, but it could be enjoyed by any age or gender, in my opinion.
This book was quite depressing, to say the least. Nonetheless it's still an excellent historical novel which captures a long-forgotten time period that most readers could never even imagine luckily.
LITERALLY FLEW THROUGH THIS BOOK!!!! It was that good, I couldn't even stop reading it!
2.5 stars. A lot of potential and good writing style, but ultimately just another boring, archetypal historical fiction. This book is by no means bad. Anderson's prose flows very nicely, making even the boring bits easy to read. But it's just too average. This book doesn't break any historical fiction molds. Anderson breaks no boundaries with her boring plotting. Fever 1793 is far too drawn out. It's just boring all the way through. The main protagonist here was somewhat likable, but she's completely flat. There's no interest to her story because she comes off like a doormat.
I just sped up the narration on the audiobook to finish this faster.
That speaks volumes since I've never done that before.
This wasn't terrible or anything, it was just kind of boring.
It's just a series of people getting sick.
One gets sick, gets nursed, and gets better.
Then another falls sick, gets nursed, etc., etc.
For almost 300 pages that's all that happens.
The one time it started to get interesting for me was when Matty was describing Philadelphia a month or so after the epidemic started, once half the city had fled.
Mattie Cook is a 14 year old growing up helping her mom out in the coffeehouse.
Trying to get out of doing her chores and playing adventures with her best friends Polly & Nathaniel.
All of a sudden, Polly comes down with a fever, and from there the fever strikes the city of Philadelphia.
Set in the 1790s and based on true events, we discover along with Mattie, the harsh realities of growing up in that time, without modern medicine, trying to survive the yellow fever.This was a quick read, and written towards younger adults, so I would recommend for those readers.
Have you ever read a story and it was so good.
So good you read it from day to night.
this book is one to remember.The story "Fever 1793" takes place in historic Philadelphia in the year 1793.
In the story Mattie Cook (main character) has a big conflict when robbers come and rob her family's store.
In the story Mattie is very sad.
Mattie is sad because she can't find her mother.
Mattie is strong and she survives the lonely nights and empty days without her mother.This story is one that everybody should read.
This story has the makings of a wonderful book.
last year i read The American Plague: The Untold Story of Yellow Fever the Epidemic that Shaped Our Historyand thoroughly enojoyed it so it was fun to read a fictionalized account of the plague in philadelphia.yes, it was a kids book, but it read like an adult book.
hell, i dug it as an adult.so, i'd say that if you have any kids who are interested in this type of stuff or who just kind of enjoy historical stuff, give 'em this book.
Fever Laurie Anderson is the author of this wonderful book, witch has a outstanding content.
The author uses a romantic technique of writing witch is bonded to the fearful story of the fever in 1793, an example of this romantic writing is the following "I threw my arms around Nathaniel and planted a big kiss on his cheek." (Anderson 232).
The author gives us an excellent use of language witch describes the book so much; you can be able to make imageries fast.
An example of this is the following "The front room was a jumble.
There is nothing much I can say about this book except that it is just an OK read.
I know Laurie Halse Anderson for her great contemporary YA novels - "Wintergirls," "Catalyst," "Twisted," and "Speak." "Fever 1793" is nothing like these fabulous books.
This is Anderson's first historical fiction book which describes the worst epidemic of yellow fever in America.
The story is definitely written for pre-teen children, not young adults.
There is just not enough character development or conflict to interest an adult.
That aside, "Fever 1793" is a good book to introduce children to this part of American history.Reading challenge: #4.
Reread after picking up a copy at my local Half Price Books. I am still astonished at how good an historical fiction book written for an elementary/middle school audience can be. The panic and fear in the wake of the fever really gets across, and the post-Revolutionary War setting is extremely immersive. Mattie, her grandfather, and Eliza are also well-drawn and sympathetic characters. Totally still recommended.
The epidemic in Philadelphia in 1973 was incredibly destructive, particularly because one of the preferred treatment methods likely killed many people that could have been saved.I always loved historical fiction growing up, but much of what I read was more western oriented (lots of settlers and Native Americans), since that was what I was familiar with.
Those books that I read taking place in this area and time were largely authored by Ann Rinaldi, or the American Girl Felicity books which I still believe offer an invaluable and unique point of view as Felicity’s family were loyalists–something we don’t often see in Revolutionary era historical fiction.
The author apparently began this book in 1993 after coming across an article in her local newspaper that discussed the epidemic that had happened two centuries before.This young adult historical fiction tells the story of 14 year old Mattie whose family owns a coffee shop in the city.
I thought Mattie was a great character and that this book brought the idea of epidemic to life.The history of Philadelphia is one that I know very little about and it was fascinating to take this look into one of the city's worse experiences.
3.5 starsThis was a quick read (or listen, I should say) and Emily Bergl does a fine job reading.
I've never actually learned much about the yellow fever plague of 1793, so it was interesting in that I was learning while reading, which I always enjoy.
When the fever first struck and people were dying all around, I was afraid for the ending.
I didn't know if middle-grade readers (to whom I would happily recommend this) would be interested in a story that might not have a happy ending, but I don't think I ought worry.
Fine storytelling and excellent dialogue.
Well written middle-grade book about The Yellow Fever Epidemic in Pennsylvania during the mid 17th century. The story is narrated by an eleven-year-old girl whose family and town are affected by yellow fever.
She was a strong character with a lot of heart.The next thing I liked was the plot in the story it was a nation dieing because of a bloody and deadly disease yellow fever.
It was a time of the dead, people dieing in left and right but there was one little girl waiting for a chance to prove to her family that’s she's not little anymore.
This book was a book every girl should read if they are coming into some problems with life so they can know they can get out of it ok
FINALLY!!!
A Laurie Halse Anderson book that was completely likeable with no reservations!!!
I loved the research and thought that was put into the story.
I loved the characters.
In a way it was depressing, but all ended well.
I learned quite a bit about the plague of 1793 in Philadelphia (how did I not know about this Mr. Smart???) and couldn't put it down.
It was emotional, beautiful, and left something with me that I can't forget.
The writing was so amazing that I felt like I should be reading each word carefully out loud just so it could reach its full potential.
I LOVED it!
I think Laurie Halse Anderson is a wonderful author and I enjoyed this book. It's not my favorite of hers that I've read but it's good. I'm participating in #ReadKidsLit for the month of November, and I felt like reading some historical fiction, so this book was a good fit for my mood. I think the author did a good job of showing what Phildelphia was like during the Yellow Fever epidemic and I liked reading the appendix after finishing the book because it gave all kinds of factual information about the epidemic.
Yellow Fever was one of the worst epidemics in US history- it decimated Philadelphia in 1793. Not knowing it was spread by mosquito bites, it was thought that one caught it by breathing "bad air"or by being around contagious people, so many of the sick were shunned. Blood letting was a popular treatment and certainly contributed to the mortality rate. A good book for kids to learn about Yellow Fever, but I was educated as well. Three and a half stars
boring. nothing happens besides people dying, and her traveling to get away from the fever. The the main character (i forgot her name, is it matilda???) is very bland and has no personality. there was also supposed to be romance, but it was not fleshed out at all.in conclusion, this book was nothing special and was about as bland as most american music these days.
I really liked this book! I tried to read it once before, but I didn't really get into it. I liked the main character, Mattie, and the rest of her family and friends. I also liked learning about the yellow fever epidemic, as that was something I didn't know much about.
Anderson is deservedly well known for her historical fiction, and many of her books take place in the late 18th century around the time of the American Revolution, and following it.
This book tells the story of a yellow fever epidemic which hit Philadelphia in 1793, and killed several thousand residents.
The heroine of the story is the adolescent Mattie Cook who lives with her widowed mother and grandfather above the family business, a coffeehouse.The fever hits early in the book, and leads to an evacuation of the city by those who are able.
