https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93795.The_English_Assassin
And I could do without the hero having a fling with the femme fatale of the piece, but the stories are intriguing and Silva is a good storyteller and writer, unlike many who write in this genre.This book focuses on the Swiss looting of art treasures and collaboration with the Nazis during WW II.
Mr. Silva interweaves this historical travesty within an interesting caper that also gives the reader a lot of details about music, especially classical violin pieces and mid twentieth century art and its place in the World War. You actually learn some things in this text.I was impressed with how skillfully and convincingly Silva gets in the mind of a great musician while they are playing.
A Wonderful Surprise - 5 Stars  My expectations were low going into this novel. I read the first in the series in 2013 and honestly I have completely forgotten the plot. The first story felt tired and average. Quite unexpectedly, the second book in the series blew me away and kept me interested from the start. Plot The world's most deadly art restorer is called into action when the Israeli government is contacted by Swiss banker who has some information he wishes to share. Sensing that there s
Quite unexpectedly, the second book in the series blew me away and kept me interested from the start.
Plot The world's most deadly art restorer is called into action when the Israeli government is contacted by Swiss banker who has some information he wishes to share.
As the name of the book suggests, a large part of the story revolves around an English Assassin who has a past with Gabriel and who is tasked with seeing him killed.
Final Thoughts If you were like me and were put off by the first book, don't let that keep you from giving the series a second chance.
The Israel’s want the painting returned to there rightful owners.But the Swiss Bankers are not about to give billions of dollars in artwork away to the Israel’s and are quite prepared to kill to keep possession of the masterpieces.
If this task is to be successful Allon will have to put his life on the line.Allon is, as always, the reluctant operative but when duty calls he can’t refuse.It’s not perfect but for all that it’s a well crafted book that is easy to read.
Again being the forever optimist I started reading the English "assassin" by Daniel Silva as a follow-up to his first book in the series about 'Israeli secret agent' Gabriel Allon.
Mr. Silva's writing style is very ingenuous and descriptive and despite several lackluster plot scenes in the first book I wanted to give the series another shot.
'Gabriel' is agent who's well past middle age, over 50 years old, post retirement and Silva constantly reminds us that Gabriel wants no part in any covert secret operation.
What follows is a barrage of unnecessary and lackluster events that turned his book into a real snooze fest!
It’s been that way for seven hundred years.’First published in 2002, The English Assassin is the second in the series in which Gabriel Allon, art restorer and occasional “fixer” for the Israeli government, is commissioned to restore a Raphael for a Swiss banker, Auguste Rolfe.
I much enjoyed this second Gabriel Allon novel and note the beginnings of his ascension into a top notch defender of Isreal against murdering Nazi thieves and their allies. 10 of 10 stars
Enorme salto de Daniel SilvaResumindo: segundo livro da saga dos serviços secretos israelitas e alteração completa de ritmo e temáticas relativamente à obra original.Daniel Silva doseou os tópicos abrangidos, centrou-se em um e ganhou com isso mais consistência.
Se no primeiro livro abarcou um sem número de ideias que acabou por não conseguir concretizar na plenitude (conflito israelo-palestiniano, serviços secretos, passado de Allon, arte, religião), nesta sequela investiu menos na vertente política e mais no marcar da personalidade do seu agente fetiche.
Mesmo sem abundar no detalhe, Daniel Silva passeia-se pelo nosso país com algum conhecimento de causa e, sem querer, torna a sua personagem, para nós portugueses, ainda mais mundana.“(…)gostava de estar em Lisboa.
In this second installment of the Gabriel Allon series we find our sensitive and scarred spy taking on the Swiss bankers who helped the Nazis during WWII and are still hiding old Jewish money and treasure under the boardwalks of Zurich.
As in his previous novels, Mr. Silva brings back characters he created in the "Silva Universe" which are always a pleasure to reacquaint with.
The novel is a mystery within a mystery - after recovering some missing paintings Allon goes after the Swiss banking cartel that has been hiding them.
Just when the good guy is really in deep trouble, gun shots firing everywhere, my husband's lawn mower backfired giving me quite a start. That must be the mark of a good book, no?
Too much carnage and mayhem : Where the key figures in the plot line go, bodies drop like flies swatted out of the air and things tend to get destroyed.
Here, every body that falls is accompanied by me feverishly turning the pages like an adolescent reading his first book on the intricacies of love making.
There is quite a lot of detail ( the authenticity of which I might have to read up to comprehend !) on this particular detail all through the tale.Apart from this and a few slight quirks, the plot is altogether too plain.
Not a bad thriller at all but one that leaves a lot more to be desired for.
Ainda li posteriormente um outro livro do americano Daniel Silva, O Criado Secreto, centrado esse numa trama protagonizada por um grupo islamista radical.
A minha lista de futuras leituras está demasiado grande: tenho internet, e-reader, bibliotecas municipais, regionais e a Islâmica demasiado perto de casa, vivo numa grande cidade cheia de possibilidades e não preciso de voltar às ágeis histórias de conspirações e espionagem que o Daniel Silva escreve para quem gosta de matar tempo com livros.
Some of my friends mentioned Daniel Silva, so I thought I'd give him a shot with The English Assassin.
Another knock I have about some of these stories is that the characters, despite being fictional, were almost Jedi/Ninja types.
Finally, the last knock, the story seems a bit long.
I am not an editor, but I got bogged down sometimes in areas where I wanted the story to just move along.
As always, I give an author two chances, so I will pick up another Silva novel, just not sure which one.
Gabriel doesn’t create an ersatz family, unless a bunch of old curmudgeons qualify.Another thing that separates the Allon series from other thrillers is Allon’s talent as an art restorer.
In the case of Augustus Rolfe, Anna Rolfe, and the missing Impressionist paintings, Shamron gets Gabriel to investigate the matter using false pretenses.
He sends Gabriel off to meet Anna Rolfe, a famous violinist, whose father is the dead banker.
This may explain how Gabriel gets out of the clutches of Otto Gessler alive so he can retire to Cornwall to recover from his injuries and restore works of art until Shamron intervenes once again.The English Assassin has a fairly convoluted plot with lots of traveling involved.
A ganância e o abuso de poder, como é sabido, são direccionados para os mais diversos alvos, sejam eles pessoas, lugares, objectos ou mesmo pensamentos.Neste livro contamos com personagens já conhecidas como Julian Isherwood, um negociante de arte que gosta mais de possuir e admirar quadros do que propriamente vendê-los e Aris Shamron, também chamado pelo seu discípulo como O Velho, continua a chefiar os serviços secretos israelitas, no seu gabinete na Avenida Rei Saul, em Telavive.No que diz respeito às novas caras é de destacar Gerhardt Peterson.
Fast paced, action packed, page turning fun! Great read.
The story centres around the Swiss bankers who colluded with the Nazis to smuggle works of art stolen from Jewish families out of Germany during WWII.Gabriel Allon is an Israeli spy introduced during an earlier novel, but this book can be read as a stand alone.
He becomes involved in the affair when he is invited to restore a painting for a Swiss banker and walks in to his clients home to find he has been murdered and his hidden vault of very valuable artworks stolen.
Highly recommended if you enjoy spy thrillers in the Le Carre mould and don't mind a few murders and a bit of violence along the way.
Another great story by Daniel Silva. This time Gabriel Allon finds himself in some trouble in Switzerland. The main topic being Switzerland's cooperation and trading with Nazi Germany during the Second World War and profiting immensely from it. Gabriel really has a hard time with this one but things end well with the help of an unlikely ally. It seems there's more than one assassin with a conscience.
Not as good as the first one, but still enjoyable.
ENLIGHTENING PAGE TURNERWhat I liked most about "The English Assasin" in terms of entertainment was its unrelentless action, chapter after chapter and of course its underlying message.This very riveting fast paced novel begins when Israeli Mossad agent and art restorer by profession, Gabriel Allon, is assigned to go to Switzerland, to restore a painting of a very rich Swiss art billonaire and found that this man has been murdered at his residenceThe dead man holds a secret that will be unveiled later in the ending chapters as Gabriel was not assigned to do that restoring job by sheer coincidence, and that, is the hidden mistery.
Daniel Silva- The English Assassin (Signet Books 2003) 3.25 StarsFormer Israeli spy, now turned art restorer, Gabriel Allon is being tossed back into a past he left behind.
Going against him is the English Assassin, someone he trained.The introduction was pretty good.
The characters were okay, but I felt that they were lacking a certain depth, with the exception of the main character, which was very well created.
Overall it was a good one time read.For more of my reviews check out my website, www.tonypeters.webs.comTony PetersKids on a Case: The Case of the Ten Grand Kidnappinghttp://authortonypeters.blogspot.com/
3.5/5 I first read about the Holocaust in Daniel Silva's lesser known but his best book according to me - "The Confessor".
It was also my first book by the author and quite different from the other Gabriel Allons, with the theme of the Church's guilty conscience in refusing sanctuary to Jews.
He is known for inventing micro-finance and alleiviating poverty in Bangladesh thru Grameen bank.
I think a Swiss banker's autobiography would be called "Banker to the Looters".This thriller talks of the role of the Swiss bankers and their secrecy laws in aiding the Nazi loot of art treasures, the Swiss looting of Jew bank deposits, the financing of the Nazi war effort.
In this book, his main character is an art restorer / spy for Israel.
The book examines Switzerland complicity with Hitler in helping with war finances and how some banks in Switzerland made it easier to keep wealth from flowing back to relatives of Jews who died in Hitler's camps.
It also deals with how the Swiss banks held famous artwork that, by the book's claim, the Swiss bankers helped Nazi's take possession of stolen artwork legally by not justly.
I loved the book, but the ending was so anticlimactic I just couldn't believe it.
If you like spy novels and books about art, this one with those two in it. I highly recommend to read this book
Everyone from drug cartels to Wall Street CEOs use Swiss bank accounts to hide their monetary sins, so it’s not a stretch to imagine that Hitler and his Nazi goons utilized the safety and security of Swiss banks for their own financial gain.Daniel Silva, in his novel “The English Assassin”, treats Switzerland’s false neutrality as a given.
Billions of dollars worth of artwork were stolen by the Nazis, and tens of thousands of these pieces of art still remain lost.“The English Assassin” introduces readers to Gabriel Allon, an art restorer extraordinaire and former Israeli spy.
Gabriel has been sent on a supposed art restoration assignment to the home of private banker Augustus Rolfe in Zurich, only to find the man dead.
Of course, Rolfe has a daughter, a world famous concert violinist, whom Gabriel must protect.The English Assassin gets off to a much quicker start than the first book, The Kill Artist.
I suppose this is because Gabriel's backstory is already known to anyone who has read the former book.
That’s a feeling I can relate to, although my baggage is certainly more benign.I’m determined to write reviews of this series without spoilers, but it’s not easy.
That’s all in the blurb, and you can imagine why Allon would want to be involved in bringing the true murderer to justice.Silva takes us into the story through multiple perspectives, including Swiss bankers, the victim’s estranged daughter, and the titular assassin.
He always gives the characters the stage, while providing a detailed backdrop for them to work within.This time I read the book rather than listened to audio.
This is the 2nd Gabriel Allon novel and it is very good.
I even rooted for the Englishman, the assassin that Allon is after, because he showed some moral code about his assignments - that was an interesting twist to a villain.
However The English Assassin is a very good thriller read.
When Gabriel arrives, he finds the man murdered.
And how did the Swiss authorities find and arrest the Restorer/sometimes Israeli Spy and Assassin in just 30 minutes?
Gabriel Allon is determined to find the answers to these questions, even if it means dying in the process.
And the English Assassin may just do that.
Not I have started again and I have to admit that I generally enjoyed this story.
(hide spoiler)]I have also already read the first and the third book in this series, The Kill Artist and The Confessor.Gabriel is send to Zurich to restore the mysterious painting for an unknown collector.
It also turns out that Anna Rolf, his daughter, is a famous violinist Gabriel appreciate and that the long-lost collection of the Impressionist masterpieces is missing.Like, I said there are some dark moments, mostly involving violence.
I will definitely follow this series, since I really like Gabriel, I wish he will eventually find his peace.
Daniel Silva provides the reader with his usual blend of action, excitement, intrigue, and plot twists -- all set within the historical context of the secret world of the Swiss banking system from WWII to the present.
In a reprise of Gabriel Allon, the art restorer and sometimes Israeli spy from the Kill Artist, Silva spins a tale of a secret Swiss society, long-ago collaboration with Nazi Germany, and a quest to recover art treasures plundered by the Nazi's in WWII.
Gabriel is drawn into the plot when he is sent to restore a painting belonging to an elderly Swiss banker.
Of the first three Gabriel Allon books that I have read (and loved all of them) The English Assassin is my favorite.
There is a certain nuance to the storytelling where everything ultimately makes complete sense, but the twists and turns are completely unexpected.
But he perseveres and ultimately makes it through, but not always in the way we would expect.
I have this entire series on my self and I expect I'm going to saver every single installment.
The English Assassin is a book - and a series - everyone should give a try.
