https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1389596.Why_I_Am_An_Atheist
This essay is supposed to be read by an argumentative, non-aligned, unprejudiced and a detached mind because only such a mind would have the ability to comprehend the essence of these musings.At 22 years of age, if a person delves into such philosophies with such prudence and vanity, it's only a great tragedy to have lost him so early.A text to cherish all my life.
Pages are blackened with invective diatribes condemning Nero: the tyrant, the heartless, the wicked.One Genghis Khan killed a few thousand people to seek pleasure in it and we hate the very name.
Now, how will you justify your all-powerful, eternal Nero, who every day, every moment continues his pastime of killing people?
How can you support his doings which surpass those of Genghis Khan in cruelty and in misery inflicted upon people?
A God-believing Hindu may expect to be reborn a king; a Muslim or a Christian might dream of the luxuries he hopes to enjoy in paradise as a reward for his sufferings and sacrifices.
The generation... i consider post freedom generation only... could have some ethics to sacrify if this book was made a school syllabus supplement....We only learn name, date of birth, or image of the great people...we always ignore and forget the ethical grounds and vision behind their sacrifice....We should adopt some books in our syllabus...
Singh was hanged to death on March 23, 1931.
And I think it would be fitting if one just listen's to this man's thoughts ( if anybody hasn't read this little essay before )https://www.marxists.org/archive/bhag...It is hardly a few pages and well worth your time.==============================================21 Nov 2014It is necessary for every person who stands for progress to criticize every tenet of old beliefs.
If after rigorous reasoning, one is led to believe in any theory of philosophy, his faith is appreciated.
It deprives a man of his understanding power and makes him reactionary.A must read.
Very few books in life tempt to read them again. Bhagat Singh shows a rationale aspect of a communist. Religion has nothing to do with his ideology. To him, Religion is just an exploitative tool in the hand of Bourgeois to threaten the proletarian. It demands courage to be an atheist.
As a kid, I idolized Bhagat Singh, Subash Bose.
Non-violence?
Show the other cheek when you are slapped on one.
What a loser Gandhi was?The real fight was what Singh did.
Bose did.
I understood the power and importance of non-violence, tolerance.
I started to revere Gandhi's methods.
And suddenly Bhagat Singh appeared as a misguided wayward revolutionist who bombed the Indian Assembly to no avail.
Then one day, this book caught my attention.
Extremely well-read.
(yes, this one he wrote few days before his hanging)Unbelievable courage!
Take a bow, Bhagat Singh.
Burn this book.
Before anyone else reads it.
One of the most lovable pamphlets produced by Indian sub-continent
In his own words "A God-believing Hindu may expect to be reborn a king; a Muslim or a Christian might dream of the luxuries he hopes to enjoy in paradise as a reward for his sufferings and sacrifices.
Without any selfish motive of getting any reward here or in the hereafter, quite disinterestedly have I devoted my life to the cause of freedom.
He had his own dream vision, which had nothing to do with any almighty GOD or after life rewards or any other myth or assumptions for that matter.
It was very simple and realistic - India's Freedom and he wrote about that with utmost passion.
The way how Bhagat Singh justifies that "Why he is an atheist" is unparalleled. In this universe all the revolutionary leaders are Atheist viz., Angels, Lenin, Stalin etc., If a revolutionary believes in God, by the time itself he is losing his self-believe. Worth reading. பகத சிங கடவுள இலலை எனறு சொலலவிலலை. ஆனால, தான ஏன நாததகனானேன எனபதை விளககும உததி மிக பிரமாதம. இறகக நேரும முன பிராரததனை செய எனறு சில ஆஸதிகரகள கூறும போது, அவர அதை மறுதது தைரியததுடனே துககுமேடை ஏறியிருககிறார.
The way how Bhagat Singh justifies that "Why he is an atheist" is unparalleled. In this universe all the revolutionary leaders are Atheist viz., Angels, Lenin, Stalin etc., If a revolutionary believes in God, by the time itself he is losing his self-believe. Worth reading. பகத் சிங் கடவுள் இல்லை என்று சொல்லவில்லை. ஆனால், தான் ஏன் நாத்தகனானேன் என்பதை விளக்கும் உத்தி மிக பிரமாதம். இறக்க நேரும் முன் பிரார்த்தனை செய் என்று சில ஆஸ்திகர்கள் கூறும் போது, அவர் அதை மறுத்து தைரியத்துடனே துக்குமேடை ஏறியிருக்கிறார்.
Considering the young age and then the authority that he has over his views on religious gimmicks, one can easily realize that he was a man of logic and reasoning.
His criticism of other revolutionaries who took relief in religion is also worthy to praise considering the effect it might have on his authority.
But this man had no fears and was a FREETHINKER in a true sense and had the guts t question everyone on their beliefs.It was a great read and should be a lesson to coming generations, but sadly very few youngsters know about this pamphlet and have a wrong notion of Bhagat Singh as a man.
His believe and love for freedom who was killed at the age of just 23 Years, 5 Months and 25 days.
If you haven't read it, you haven't seen life in its complete sense.
And while I say so, I even include that if you have read, seen or learned about Ernest 'Che' Guevara and revere him as a hero, which he truly deserves, you will still be dumfounded by the deeds of this man who used weapons at only 2-3 times in his life but always had one book or the other in which he was engrossed.
he astonishes me again with this book again.....at the age of 23,still boyish as far as the the age concerned kept such such a strong mind with a high thinking...generally any common human being believes in god when a hard time comes..even so many so called atheists changes their mind in such situations.But bhagat gives a strong comment why he is still an atheist even then when his death is so near ready to embrace him....let me quote the last para of the book..."Let us see how steadfast I am.
One of my friends asked me to pray.
When informed of my atheism, he said, “When your last days come, you will begin to believe.” I said, “No, dear sir, Never shall it happen.
For such petty selfish motives, I shall never pray.” Reader and friends, is it vanity?
Bhagat Singh comes out as a pioneering philosopher in this essay. It is an extremely courageous piece of writing given the environment of the country at that time. My mind boggles at the sheer clarity of thought, the command over language, his diversified knowledge and the fierce but logical dismantling of contrary arguments.And all of this, at a mere age of 22. Let that sink in.
Way ahead of it's time. Individualistic & frighteningly courageous !
Being a History Majors student, I always assumed there was nothing more to know about Bhagat Singh, nothing that I already didn't know about.
Reading this was like having a tête-à-tête with Bhagat Singh, like hearing his voice, his views and his thoughts in person.
There are things he could have explained better, arguments, that did seem like they were written down in a haste and certain points, I felt, he didn't really give much thought to.
However, at the same time, Bhagat Singh grew on me as a person.
My version of "Why I am An Atheist" is a little pamphlet by Erythros Press, only 33 pages.It was a quick fascinating read that had me diving into wikipedia to better understand the situation. 5 out of 5, will read again.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhagat_S...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kakori_c...http://articles.timesofindia.indiatim...
The one I read was more of a pamphlet than the book. Definitely, worth a read. If people at that times could be rational and now we cant, how are we progressing??Also, I know more about Bhagat Singh now :)Definitely, will read again!
Few people have a clearer set of fundamentals than Bhagat Singh. A brilliant, brilliant man we all hope to be, but can never be.
This generation of ours and the one next to come should read this essay.Its only a few pages but what Bhagat Singh thought was something relevant even today.Please read this book.
Such a lucid piece of writing this is where Bhagat Singh explains the necessity for reason over belief.
A man of great character, he was a well read anarchist and communist who looked up to Lenin:[On January 21, 1930, the accused in the Lahore Conspiracy Case appeared in the court wearing red scarves.
Bhagat Singh then read the text of this telegram in the court and asked the magistrate to send it to the Third International.]ON LENIN DAY WE SEND HEARTY GREETINGS TO ALL who are doing something for carrying forward the ideas of the great Lenin.
But Bhagat Singh was busy reading a book on Vladimir Ilyich Lenin.
C. Bose in room, the only good reason for her to go to cinema was to watch Bhagat Singh movie and believe me she could have whistled if she knew how (I’m not exaggerating).What is more, she would weep every time she saw the ending, whichever version - and sometimes she saw them three times a day.
The trouble is Indians (including 14 year old BS before 1921) think of Gandhi as a god and, to quote Nietzsche , we are too cruel with our gods, we do not allow them right to make mistakes.Anyway, losing his faith in Gandhi, Bhagat Singh joined socialist movement and become anarchist:
To the believers of Karmic theory (Bad deed begets misfortune and vice versa), he asks that isn't the theory akin to retributive justice which is inferior to reformative justice?
However I will refrain from passing any judgement on this until I have read it in more detail.According to him people only believe in God for two reasons.
The second reason is that it makes life easier to deal with when we feel that there is someone looking out for us.
This thought inciting piece is supposed to be read by an argumentative, non-aligned, unprejudiced and a detached mind because this would not only question your belief but your intellect, and only an open mind would have the ability to comprehend the essence of these musings.I found his thoughts on atheism very moving for the reason that he wrote from prison and in full knowledge that he was likely to be sentenced to death by hanging, so disproving the common line about there being no atheists in foxholes.
বিপলবী ভগৎ সিং "কেন নাসতিক " বইয়ের মূলকাঠামো বড় নয় বরং বেশি ছোট। কিনতু ভূমিকা আর উপকরমণিকা সমেত পুসতকের কায়া দাঁড়ায় ৫৯ এ।নকশালবাড়ি আনদোলনের তাততবিক রণদিভের ভূমিকা বিশেষভাবে দৃষটিগোচর হয়। তিনি নাতিদীরঘ ভূমিকায় লিখেন,"পরকাশয জনজীবনে ভগৎ সিংয়ের আবিরভাব আমাদের এই কথাই জানিয়ে দেয় যে-এই এক তরুণ বিপলবী, যিনি একমাতর জনসাধারণের সবারথে-সূতরেই তাদের কথা ভাবতে চান।"কাজের লেখায় আসি, কেন ঈশবরে বিশবাসী নন তরুণ ভগৎ সিং? নিজেই বলছেন,এটি কী তার "অহংমনযতা" নাকী যুকতির বলেই তিনি বিশবাসী নন? তার উততর দেন যে,ঈশবরে নয়
তার উত্তর দেন যে,ঈশ্বরে নয়, মানুষকে মানুষের ওপরই আস্থা রাখতে হবে।আর কঠিনতরভাবে নিজ বিশ্বাসকে পাঠকমনে প্রতিষ্ঠা করতে লিখেন,"আমার মতে যে ব্যক্তির কিছু পরিমাণ যুক্তিবোধ এবং তর্ক বিচারের ক্ষমতা আছে, সব সময়েই তিনি চান যুক্তি দিয়েই তাঁর পারিপার্শ্বিকতাকে বিচার করতে ও জয় করতে। "ভগৎ সিং বারবার বলতে চেয়েছেন, যেখানে প্রত্যক্ষ প্রমাণ নেই সেখান স্রেফ বিশ্বাস দিয়ে কেনোকিছুকে ব্যাখা করতে রাজি নন। তিনি এই বিশ্বাস নিয়ে ভাবেন,"শুধুমাত্র বিশ্বাস -অন্ধবিশ্বাসই বড় বিপজ্জনক, তা মানুষের বুদ্ধিকে ভোঁতা করে দেয় এবং স্বভাবতই তাঁকে করে তোলে প্রতিক্রিয়াশীল। "এরপর গতানুগতিক ঈশ্বর অবিশ্বাসের কিছু কারণের কথা বলেছেন। যেমনঃ ধনী-গরিব কেন?
I will repeat what everyone has told about this essay and say that it is written with so much clarity that is rarely possible for a 22 year old.
Only a man pure of heart could have written such an essay.
Leave such a fellow alone for he cannot realize the depth, the emotions, the sentiment and the noble feelings that surge in that heart.
His selfish interests have made him incapable of seeing the truth!' One can only imagine what all this man saw and went through to have written such a powerful essay!
Now, this is the book that will be on my mind for years. At a very young age and just few weeks before Bhagat Singh was to be sent to the gallows, he writes about Atheism. My understanding of atheism was limited to "believing in the non existence of GOD", and that's it. Bhagat Singh's views and opinions go much beyond that. This is just one hour read or even less, but to understand this it might take ages.
I feel sad to read this after so many years of knowing about Bhagat Singh. This in fact should be included as a part of the history books detailing about him. Such a persona who is so clear in terms of thoughts and actions are rare to find and it is this personality that needs to be spread among generations for a progressive growth. A must read for anyone remotely responding to reason.
I really loved this piece of literature. Essay wrote by Shahid Bhagat Singh, is precise. Whatever he wrote in this essay is completely true and relevant. The arguments which he has presented in this essay are exquisite and makes your belief in atheism more stronger. I would recommend this book to everyone, whether atheist or not, but it will compel you to question whatever you are believing in.
An absolutely brilliant essay written by Bhagat Singh. He explains very logically the reasons for his atheism, rather than anecdotal or abstract reasoning.The essay is available online in case you want to read it. http://www.marxists.org/archive/bhaga...
https://fbcdn-sphotos-h-a.akamaihd.ne...
