https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9640.A_Collection_of_Essays
It will take me a couple of years to chew through this substantial volume but it’s so full of stuff right from the first page that I thought it deserved to be reviewed section by section, starting with the first which is catchily named “1928-37”.*The first of several surprising ideas was in essay number one – that in 1928 there were such things as almost-free newspapers.
In those days some bookshops also ran lending libraries, and here Orwell turns his spotlight on another interesting question :In a lending library you see people’s real tastes, not their pretended ones, and the one thing that strikes you is how completely the “classical” English novelists have dropped out of favour.
Numerous inadequate volumes of Orwell’s superlative essays are available from legit presses and bootleggers, bundled together under thematic pretences or skinnied down to the longer more ‘essential’ writings.
Included here are the ‘As I Please’ columns (all 80), presenting the more relaxed and conversational side of George, along with the magnificent book reviews (George’s fondness for Henry Miller and Joyce on show).
The longer essays include, to name some more, ‘Such, Such Were the Joys’ (perhaps the finest encapsulation of Orwell’s politics and outlook), ‘Books v.
Cigarettes’ (the greatest guilt-trip about not buying books ever), ‘Politics and the English Language’ (the finest handbook for journalists ever).
No bookshelf is complete without a volume of these essays.
Orwell just made me want to line up next all the other books by Dickens that are in my to-be-read (tbr) file.The Art of Donald McGill 3 stars- I liked it!Donald McGill (1875-1962) was a cartoonist whose comic strips were very popular in England during Orwell’s time.
You will get a glimpse – a good glimpse – of what kind of man the young Orwell was that probably drove him to write his books that are said to be anti-totalitarianism.Politics and the English Language 4 stars - I really liked it!
What I have most wanted to do throughout the past ten years is to make political writing into an art. George Orwell is one of the inescapable writers of the last century. Far from becoming irrelevant, his works seem to become more significant with each passing year (as most recently evidenced by the present administration’s strained relationship with the truth). Orwell himself said that the “final test of any work of art is survival,” and his works seem on track to pass this final test. His dys
Orwell the activist is outraged at injustice and uncompromising in his moral sense; he sees people as a collection of allies and enemies, taking part in a grand struggle to bring about a better society, or a worse one.Orwell himself discusses this tension in his little essay, “Why I Write.” In a more peaceful age, he thinks, he could have been an entirely aesthetic writer, perhaps a poet, not paying much attention to politics.
In all of these essays, Orwell worked to undermine the naïve distinction between politics and everyday life, showing how we absorb messages about standards, values, and ideologies from every direction.
This volume contains Orwell’s best and most famous essays, printed many places (including online), like “Such, Such Were the Joys,” “Shooting an Elephant,” and “Politics and the English Language." It also includes other thought-provoking but harder to find essays like “A Hanging,” and “Notes on Nationalism,” as well as the excellent and still very relevant preface to the first edition of Animal Farm, “The Freedom of the Press.”As you would expect, there’s plenty here of Orwell’s favorite topics, totalitarianism, fascism, communism, and imperialism, but also much about the little details of everyday life, from how to make the perfect cup of tea to his concept of an ideal pub.
man, this book is such a great old friend.----Orwell is skyrocketing up my list of major 20th century writers with every one of the 255 pages I've thus far read of this 1300+ page behemoth.
Having read it, I feel far more conversant with the politics of the pre-war years, the Fabian Society-inspired English breed of socialism, the demise of realpolitik as Fascism's yoke was affixed, battled and finally thrown off...Orwell is one of the most intelligent, aware and just amazingly foresighted authors of the twentieth century, and this book will find itself a place near my mattress for some time.
Some real snoozers that are stuck so firmly in time and place that only the most devoted anglophiles or Orwellians would be interested ('The Art of Donald McGill', 'England Your England', 'Boys' Weeklies').But the majority of essays are written with terrific clarity and foresight, carried by Orwell's power of observation and knack for capturing insight in pithy, memorable sentences.
For this alone, 'Marrakech' and 'Such, Such Were the Joys' are worth reading.But Orwell's sharpest and most relevant commentary can be found in the essays about the nature of political power, language, and writing ('Shooting an Elephant', 'Politics and the English Language', 'Why I Write').

Selected essays. I thought the essays here on Dickens and Kipling were revelations. About ninety percent of the essays cited by other authors that I have read are included here. I also particularly liked "Inside the Whale," a paean to Henry Miller's masterpiece, Tropic of Cancer.
I am thinking in each case of one or two outstanding books: for example, Merrick's CYNTHIA, J.D. Beresford's A CANDIDATE FOR TRUTH, W.L. George's CALIBAN, May Sinclair's THE COMBINED MAZE and Ernest Raymond's WE, THE ACCUSED.
Some indefinable quality, a sort of literary vitamin,which exists even in a book like IF WINTER COMES, is absent from them.Perhaps the supreme example of the "good bad" book is UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.
George Orwell was probably one of the most important social critique of his times.
His body of work is vast and this one large volume doesn't cover it entirely.George Orwell as an essayist has more impact as a writer than as a novelist.
As an essayist he displays an edge, a harshness towards the (British) society that doesn't bat an eye at the world that is on fire.
A fierce social critique, his opinions isn't limited to everyday politics but extends to war elsewhere, literature in different countries and art.
I've said it before. I'll say it again. It's Orwell. It's fantastic. I actually read a free Gutenberg version of his 50 essays, but it's much the same as this edition. A few of the essays were too political and only relevant to certain past events. A few were quite boring or about very obscure subjects. Yet the vast majority were absolutely fantastic, topical, relevant for today and incredibly well constructed. Essential reading for Orwell fans. Otherwise a condensed version of his best pieces might be the way to go. Several of them should be required reading for school students.
Orwell writes so well you want to give him a standing ovation.
Whether writing about the English national character, analyzing the content and effect of popular comics for boys, or explaining his own compulsion to write, Orwell is always engaging and writes in clear, crisp prose that most essayists can only aspire to.
These extraordinary essays will sweep away any niggling resentment of Orwell you might feel because you were forced to read "Animal Farm" and/or "1984" in high school, and inspire you to seek out more of his work.
Okay so, let's get one thing straight: My review is not of this particular book, but I've read a collection of Orwell's essays and didn't know how to mark them.
It basically sends the message that: even though the world is crumbling around us, doesn't mean that we can't appreciate the little beautiful things surrounding us.- Shooting An Elephant: This essay, was the most thought-provoking of them all.
- Confessions of a Book Reviewer: I thought I'd relate more to this essay but it was in fact, more like a description of how a life of a professional book reviewer is (someone who does it as a job).
Orwell would've been proud that this thing exists now.
I don't have much to add about Orwell, his prescience, his style, etc.
I did find something that I confess made me wonder whether Orwell is quite as egalitarian, or as strict about avoiding bad rhetoric, as the people who talk about him now would like him to be.
There was poverty and there were even class-distinctions, but except for the Negroes there was no permanently submerged class." With all due respect, you've got to be in some kind of a stupor to write a thing like that.
The guy who wrote "Politics and the English Language," Mr. Tell It Like It Is, wouldn't have written it, except that he did.
A brilliant set of essays, providing great insights into Orwell's world -- the end of colonialism, the rise of fascism and Stalinism, the evolution of British society.
So many great essays -- in "Politics and the English Language," Orwell talks about why so many political tracts are badly written -- because people actually want to conceal what they are trying to say (advocating violence sounds so much better when dressed up in patriotic cliches).
In "Reflections on Gandhi," Orwell described why he disliked the man.
But Orwell says that Gandhi was trying to be a saint, and that saints are different in nature from other people.
I honestly have no clue how I forgot to catalog this. Two renewals twice as many summers past. Nine golden weeks. Makes for a good weapon in the case of a mugging as well, also good on the arm muscles. Indispensable.
Recomendada lectura para quienes, sean de izquierdas o derechas, prefieren anteponer la búsqueda de la verdad al conformismo ideológico.
The work in this book shines a searchlight on the British and British intellectual life.Subjects illuminated include : the end of colonialism, British politics, World War 2, British people and class, the British inter-war intelligentsia, and more.The essays are each a learning experience; some have to be waded through for a while before the lessons start to emerge...
these things tell you that you are in the presence of a great mind.It is interesting to read these essays with some knowledge of Orwell's life.
Also of immense value to Americans and those interested in the end of the British colonial period, I can't recommend this compilation of Orwell's essays highly enough.
Includes "Shooting the Elephant" and "Politics and the English Language". Genius.

In an almost unbroken progress since the early days of the Revolution, liberty has been chipped away and representative institutions smothered, while inequalities have increased and nationalism and militarism have grown stronger.Political predictions are usually wrong, because they are usually based on wish-thinking, but they can have symptomatic value, especially when they change abruptly.Such a world-picture fits in with the American tendency to admire size for its own sake and to feel that success constitutes justification, and it fits in with the all-prevailing anti-BritishBurnham at least has the honesty to say that Socialism isn’t coming; the others merely say that Socialism is coming, and then give the word “Socialism” a new meaning which makes nonsense of the old one.If I had to make a prophecy, I should say that a continuation of the Russian policies of the last fifteen years — and internal and external policy, of course, are merely two facets of the same thing — can only lead to a war conducted with atomic bombs, which will make Hitler’s invasion look like a tea-party.
Indeed, he is bringing up stuff we In the 21st century ought to revisit and consider.“Wonderfully as he can describe an APPEARANCE, Dickens does not often describe a process....“Everything is seen from the consumer-angle....“When he speaks of human progress it is usually in terms of MORAL progress–men growing better; probably he would never admit that men are only as good as their technical development allows them to be."Having gone into example after example of actual work NOT being described, Orwell throws us fans a bone.“No modern man could combine such purposelessness with so much vitality.”This is the very line that precedes the "I know you're angry" (dear Reader) sop at the beginning of Part V.
And I always watch myself because I know part of me wants to read books by people like this, simply so I too can say, oh George Orwell yes I've actually read his essays as well as his novels.
I found myself wondering what he would have thought of certain things happening now, or even what his opinion on various books, video games and the like would have been.I can now say I'm a fan of George Orwell and I want to read more about him and by him.
لم أندهش كثيراً عندما اكتشفت للمرة الأولى أن سبعين بالمئة من مجموعة المقالات هذه مألوفة أو سبق لي الإطلاع عليها، ذلك أن هذا ما يحدث عادةً حين يقودك هوسك بآراء كاتبٍ ما إلى شراء أي كتاب يحمل اسمه على غلافه دون أن تكلف نفسك عناء تصفحه أو القراءة عنه.
A man who gives a good account of himself is probably lying, since any life when viewed from the inside is simply a series of defeats." بالطبع، ليست المره الأولى التي ينجح فيها أورويل بضمي إلى صفه، اتفق معه ايضاً في معاداة الفاشية والأنظمة الشمولية.
لكنها المره الأولى التي اختلف فيها معه.
If you ask me, essays are George Orwell's true talent.
The thing that makes essays difficult to write is the ever-present "who cares?" question.
Ahhh, but in the hands of a talented writer, who by their very nature must also be a talented and intriguing mind, an essay is like living in someone else's brain and heart if only for a few moments.
So, it's no longer, "who cares?" but "How could you not want to live in these words and thoughts?" George Orwell is the latter kind of essayist.
As much as I enjoy Orwell's fiction, I also enjoyed reading this non-fiction book.
While fiction and non-fiction are entirely different genres, Orwell excels in both.
Actually, I noticed that some essays have ideas which Orwell developed later in his fiction.
My favorite essay is "Politics and the English Language." It's about that meaningless pretentious language in politics and the humanities.
He writes about its absurdity and how some politicians use it to confuse their listeners.
I liked how he offered clear guidelines on how to avoid that kind of language.
They were very useful.
One down side is not all essays were relevant to me.
This was equal parts fascinating and soul-crushingly boring, so as with (it seems) all collections or bind-ups I read, I'm going for the middle ground and rating this three stars. ~Review to come~
If a Spaniard appears, he is still a ‘dago’ or ‘greaser’ who rolls cigarettes and stabs people in the back; no indication that things have been happening in Spain.INSIDE THE WHALE (1940)"If the keynote of the writers of the twenties is ‘tragic sense of life’, the keynote of the new writers is ‘serious purpose’."MY COUNTRY RIGHT OR LEFTTHE LION AND THE UNICORN: SOCIALISM AND THE ENGLISH GENIUS (1941)"The lady in the Rolls-Royce car is more damaging to morale than a fleet of Goering's bombing planes."WELLS, HITLER AND THE WORLD STATE (1941)THE ART OF DONALD MCGILL (1941)One of the few authentic class-differences, as opposed to class-distinctions, still existing in England is that the working classes age very much earlier.
Not only do I want to buy this book but I yearn for a whole collection of Orwell’s work even though I already own “1984”, “Animal Farm” and “Down and Out in Paris”.This volume is a series of essays written by Orwell between 1928 and 1949 on war, economy, literature and day to day living.
Of course I knew that he had died in 1950 – too soon – but reading his essays, I had the impression that he was alive and that he had been my companion for the last few months – it’s a big book.
