https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11732634-smokin-seventeen
I have laughed and teared up, I have giggled and gasped for years, but it's time I stand up and shout.Your last three Stephanie Plum Novels have left me feeling cheated.
I didn't mind so much previously when she would steal a few kisses here and there between Ranger and Joe (and hell Diesel) but having her sleep with both men, in the same book, on back to back nights is just shameful.
I won't be buying anymore of your novels.If this alienates me in the book blogging world, so be it.
Stephanie Plum certainly has a lot of people in her life who want to tell her what to do.
And if you're on book 17, do you really want a regular review on this one?
and by then, you'll know if you have the hutzpah to handle 'em all.And oh yeah...
when I've got 18 books in the series I've read, and only done 2 reviews, and it's been 5 to 10 years since I've read them...
Yikes, why do I feel so much pressure to have a review for every rating when I've read a book.
You can also find this review, and see if I’m team Ranger or team Morelli on my blog @ http://booksavvybabe.com In Smokin’ Seventeen, bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is back in action.
With not-so-trusty sidekick Lula at her side, Stephanie is on the hunt for skips, trying to decide between two men, fending off her mother’s matchmaking attempts, and of course, trying to stay alive.Stephanie Plum novels can always be counted on to bring a laugh to the reader, and Smokin’ Seventeen did not disappoint.
Smokin’ Seventeen is more a series of smaller skips and exploits combined together.
Probably because I so loved them up until #14 and I'm an eternal optimist, hoping something will actually happen!
Word of warning to those of you who would like to see things go somewhere between Stephanie and Ranger or Morelli - DON'T!!
It seems as if Evanovich uses the sex to placate fans then blames Stephanie's "confusion" as an excuse NOT to dig a smidgen deeper.
This would not be so frustrating and I would have quit reading three books ago if there were not such a rich reservoir of possibilities to mine in either the Ranger or Morelli story lines (especially with Ranger, IMHO).
Dear God, seriously? Another guy for Steph? I think I want to change my pick from Steph & Morelli to Morelli & Ranger. Yum!
Imagine my glee when Stephanie finally starts having sex with the guy whose team I have been on the whole time!
(Go Team Ranger) But, there is a slight problem with Stephanie having sex with Ranger - which, again, I love!
"What's your plan for the day?""I thought I'd do my bounty hunter thing.""You know where to find me if you want to do your vordo thing."----------------------------At eight o'clock I called Ranger.
I am getting vordo just thinking about him.Despite Stephanie's sluttiness, I enjoyed the change of pace in this book.
And, Rex the hamster, was 2 years old in the first book......
This is one of those series that I keep reading despite acknowledging that they aren't that good anymore and haven't been for a while.
My two major complaints are how obvious the villain was (even Stephanie should have figured it out the first time she watched the surveillance video, like I did); and how Evanovich reused the "cliffhanger" ending from a much earlier book, where we end with Stephanie about to make a "decision" between Ranger and Morelli for a special event.
(view spoiler)[But at least she boinked Ranger AND Morelli in this one, a lot, so that's, ya know, a step.
OK, so those of us who like Ranger will like this one a little better, but I still feel like we're being strung along.
Evanovich needs to take some lessons from Ward, KMM or even Roberts and give us a little more detail, especially with Ranger.
Also, her characters still talk the same way they did at the beginning of the series - it's not the 90s and it's time to update.(view spoiler)[ At the end she's got the gift cards for plane tickets along with Dave the crazy killer's tickets and she tells Lula she's taking a trip and it's all about her lady parts, and of course, that's the end with no preview of the next book.(view spoiler)[With the next installment I'm thinking I'll wait to see how others review it rather than pre-ordering.
I loved this book! Ranger was in it a lot, Morelli was being ok, there was a new guy, an ok plot, lots of funny Lula, and some Grandma Mazur. Cars were lost and I found myself laughing out loud during some parts. What more could you want??Edit: After reading some other reviews I think I must be in the minority in that I don't want Stephanie to make a choice between her guys. I like them both and this is escapism. I don't need lots of character development with this series. I like it the way it is.
This one starts out with Lula and Stephanie in the usual mix of eating, complaining and trying to make a living at Vinnie's Bail Bonds.
I liked these books better when Lula was there as any minor character in Stephanie's life.
The plot centers around dead bodies that turn up in the vacant lot of the bail bonds business.
This book is fine easy summer reading, but I think Evanovich needs to take a breather on these, so she can breathe a little more life into them.
Yes, I know I swore off this series after Sixteen... hope springs eternal?
I love this series. It never get's old for me. And I will read every single one as long as they are published. With that, this is another FANTASTIC novel in the Stephanie Plum series and I highly recommend it.
One of my favorites to date! Loved everything about it and the vordo, oh my the vordo. About time in some cases. ;)
Life in Trenton continues for Stephanie Plum, the world’s worst bounty hunter.
At 30-something and still acting like a spoilt teenager, Stephanie’s act is wearing thin.
I wanted to jump into the book and slap her, and offer this advice: Choose Morelli.
Ranger doesn’t want you.
He doesn’t want anyone.
Grandma Bella curses Stephanie.
Again.Enter Dave, a high school friend of Stephanie’s.
Dave cooks and Stephanie likes food.
By the end of the book, Stephanie has five people who want her dead.
Love Stephanie Plum! Reread June 2016. Well, romance got even tougher. Steph goes back and forth between Morelli and Ranger a lot, but when her mom finds another candidate, it gets worse.Reread May 2018 — Steph gets a lot more action in this book. She gets cursed by Morelli’s scary grandma and finally gets lucky with Ranger. (Maybe not so much a curse as a blessing) Meanwhile her life is in danger...again.
At this point I felt like I needed it as bad as Steph did.I do believe that there will be something happening with the relationship choice soon, unfortunately because of the awful way it's been written this far, if it isn't handled right in the next couple books, either way she goes is just going to feel off for me.I honestly feel that at this point the relationship with Morelli has been so very destroyed, plus the character of Morelli has been cut up pretty bad, that she really needs to make a clean break with that relationship at least for a few books while she and Ranger try to make an honest go of it.
I can't wait for this book to come out. I just really hope there is more Ranger and Joe in this book. books 15 and 16 were not her best work.
I would like to say that I'm never going to read the series again, but I honestly can't.
After investing my time in reading the previous books, I have to know how the series ends.
In the beginning it was funny, now it's just painful to read.My biggest complaint with this book is this: In the past Stephanie has always made a very diligent effort to not cheat.
Morelli & Ranger are two very alpha males, and I honestly don't understand why they keep hanging around for whatever Stephanie decides to give them.
Possibly they sense that she doesn't really need them this time, considering that the mystery is obvious almost from the start (even though the reader isn't given all the connections until the inevitable confession).These books used to work in character development between the hijinks.
Stephanie was learning the ropes as a bounty hunter, starting a relationship with the kind of guy she's supposed to want, and being tempted by each new reveal about the one she shouldn't.
The last few novels have felt like they're in just as much of a holding pattern as the continuity-optional "between the numbers" entries, though.I used to sympathize with Stephanie's confusion, but stringing along these guys is doing more than stagnating the series.
Stephanie actually caught some skips.
It actually left a bit of a sour taste.
(view spoiler)[Stephanie sleeps with both Morelli and Ranger on back to back nights.
It's been a long time since she has slept with Ranger and she's had a fairly exclusive thing going with Morelli.
She even wonders if Morelli is sleeping around and acknowledges how upset she would be if that were the case.
It has stickers in the back so you can be on either the Morelli or Ranger team.
I'll keep reading but my vote is kick Ranger down the road and marry Morelli.
The usual laughs but Stephanie spent a bit too much time dithering between boy friends for me. It may have been caused by Morelli's Grandma Bella's evil eye. Still, there were mom's fix-up dinners in her mission to find a husband for Stephanie and Lulu's usual insane antics. Grandma Mazur is still carrying a gun in her purse, so all is well in the Burg.
These books are getting more and more outlandish every time I read one.
It seems they're getting more over the top and crazier and crazier ideas every time (which doesn't translate to "more interesting").Seriously, the second Stephanie thought she recognized the guy in the tape, I knew it was Dave.
Stephanie Plum books must contain:1.
Oh, and the library copy contains "I <3 Ranger" and "I <3 Morelli" stickers at the back.
Regardless of how popular Team Snape and/or Team Jacob stickers might be, clearly the Stephanie Plum readers don't even care enough to take the sticker out of the library book.
You don't read the Plum novels for the gritty realism, but the plot of this one I thought was more than usually silly, especially the man who thought he was a vampire.
She seems to be turning into a female Homer Simpson.I've always found the whole Ranger/Morelli thing a bit unbelievable anyway - I mean we are constantly told that Stephanie is only average looking, so it is a bit hard to believe that TWO drop-dead gorgeous men are smitten by her.
But now she's jumped into bed with Ranger again, and Morelli isn't supposed to even mind that?
This is really more like 3.5 stars.
Wish they had the 1/2 star available!
Anyway, you can never really go wrong with a Plum book.
The next book is supposed to be out in November and it looks like she's going to make a decision about Ranger & Morelli.
And her mom was trying really hard to throw another guy into the mix.
I'm pulling for Morelli, so maybe we'll get a resolution.
Plus I figured out who the bad guy was pretty quick.
I got what I expect from these books!
There are a few things we can always count on in a Stephanie Plum book: at least one of Stephanie's cars will be blown up; Stephanie will be conflicted over her feelings for both Morelli and Ranger; Morelli's grandmother will put the evil eye on Stephanie; Stephanie will spend time with Lula and hijinks will ensue; Grandma Mazur will try to open a coffin to get a look at the dead body inside.
But no, the problem is that every single Stephanie Plum novel is exactly the same.
I think I loved this book as much as I hated it!
( whatever arrangement she says they have, I don't think Joe had a clue she's been sleeping with Ranger too!) and WTF Morelli gets shot down twice because of a bladder infection but it's a free for all with Ranger?!
I do believe Stephanie loves Morelli but that she's a coward who's afraid to commit to ANYTHING and she just uses Ranger as an excuse.
I did think that Stephanie was a little extra stupid in this book.
And actually you would think that Morelli would've went home with her knowing theres a killer after her!
To my disappointment the story was the same as the last Stephanie Plum I read with the exceptions being this one wasn't funny and Evanovich seemed to feel compelled to turn Stephanie into a slut; complete with back to back nights of sex with her different "boyfriends." I think what I take issue with most from this book is how I'm supposed to be convinced that two, successful, super hot men want to have sex with Stephanie.
Worst Stephanie Plum book yet.
I recommended these books to patrons and to friends and I anxiously awaited the next Stephanie Plum book.
But somewhere around book 14 the plots got thinner, the dialogue more ridiculous and the books more repetative.
Now with book 17 there is no plot, the characters are washed out boring versions of themselves.
I want my money back and I didn't even pay for this book.
Janet Evanovich has either totally lost interest in writing this series or she has been letting other people write this series and continued to slap her name on the cover.
There were a few laugh-out-loud moments (the granny panty scenes were fun) but the "bad guy" was really obvious in this episode. This did end in more of a surprise and "tease" than the other books and I have to say that I'm interested in finding out what Stephanie is planning. (for those of you who saw my review of Explosive Eighteen and are thinking "I've read this review before".....you have.....I reviewed this book but searched for the wrong book and haven't read Explosive Eighteen yet)
اگر وان فور د مانی را دیده ای، توصیه می کنم این کتاب را بخوانی
