https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319300.Georgiana
The woman is destitute and has nowhere to live (aristocratic women do not consider working or living in anything less that a grand house with a domestic staff) and so Georgiana takes her in.
The upper classes seek now, as always, to marry their daughters into an even 'higher' family, the closer to royalty the more socially successful the marriage.
The merely wealthy have always sought to marry their daughters into the aristocracy gaining the social nous that money alone cannot buy.
Princess Diana, over 30 years ago, was the last aristocrat to marry into royalty, all the others were ordinary middle-class people.
Indeed the first chapter ends in a nearby rented villa on their wedding day, where another woman, a milliner called Charlotte, was nursing the baby she had had by the Duke.Georgiana suffered the humiliation of being trapped in a very public ménage à trois, with her husband and her best friend “Bess”, Lady Elizabeth Foster, finding herself at the centre of 18th-century England’s best-known love triangle.
Eventually their household would include three children by Georgiana, two by Georgiana’s close friend, Bess Foster, and one by a former mistress of the Duke.
:)The leaders of the Whig party, Georgiana's political friends, were brilliant but flawed.Eighteenth-century England was full of wits, connoisseurs, orators, historians, drinkers, gamblers, rakes, and pranksters, but only (Charles James) Fox embodied all these things." pg 75, ebook.I confess, though this book has extraordinary detail and research about Georgiana's political activities, I found her personal life far more fascinating.Her marriage may have been doomed from the start: "The Duke did not know how to be romantic; never having experienced tenderness himself he was incapable of showing it to Georgiana.
One of the 5 reads I managed to gobble down in my last semester of grad school (in between internships at Hachette and dissertation writing!!) Loved this read! Non-fiction isn't typically my go-to drug of choice, but when it's done well, I really latch onto it. This one definitely was "well done" and delved into aspects of her life before the fame and in her later life that the commercial movie (which I also loved) never touched on. A good choice of read for sure!
The bac story to Foreman's research is fantastic - she was studying 18th century British politics and was taught that the involvement of women like the Duchess of Devonshire was basically just eye candy for the voters, but she found out that Georgiana for the Whigs and later the Duchess of Gordon for Pitt the younger were important political figures because women were meant to be apolitical therefore they could invite people to dinner at which business could be agreed informally (so for example dinners at her table were important in the peace negotiations with the rebel colonies in north America, also since invitations to upper class parties at Devonshire house had social cachet, it functioned as an early form of party discipline - if you failed to vote with the party then you got no invite to Devonshire house to drink tea and play whist.
We, the few and the proud, will sit on our literary high horses and wait to finish the book even if it means the movie is no longer in theaters.
Foreman admits to readers in her preface that during her research she became enraptured by Georgiana, which few could deny after a quick skim of her source material - how many letters, diaries, newspapers, and books she must have slogged through over the years to create this entertaining picture of the Duchess of Devonshire.In many ways, Georgiana's life was rather tragic, or I suppose as tragic as a life can be when part of the late 18th century aristocracy.
Georgiana truly jumps off the page and gives readers an appreciation of how active 18th century aristocratic women could be both socially and politically.
The idea being that women carried on separate lives largely invisible to men.
When one reads letters of both men and women of the 1700s, just for example, one discovers just how much influences was going both ways, despite the forms.Sidestep.
Not only did she do a decent job with their lives (it connects up with other good stuff about Fox and Pitt and the Lennoxes, etc, that I've read over the years) but she stepped out of the 'spheres' thing to finally connect the Whig changes.I don't think male scholars have seen how the hostesses changed politics at the times.
That story didn't have a happy ending in the 18th century, either.
This story is rather depressing at times, but vastly amusing and interesting otherwise.
She did ridiciulous, stupid things, and the author is a little bit overly tolerant of these mistakes.
(She said herself she's in love with Georgiana a little.) So you have to take the somewhat rosy picture of Georgiana's character being painted with a little bit of salt.
You cheer for her and in the end?
I would argue that there is a high likelihood of the reader being a little in love with her too.
A fantastic, in depth look at a classy lady. I enjoyed this a lot. A great book!
She ha a propensity for gambling and in one night could lose more money than she had courage to admit to her husband.
She assumed the opposing faction of her husband, to his chagrin.She began to bring in excess and take drugs.
Since her husband had moved his mistress into the home, to her great humiliation, they no longer loved as man and wife.
The book is well written and from a historical perspective directly correlates to the life of Princess Diana Spencer.
She was given into such an arranged marriage.
Tried to become the people's Princess and lost her husband to another woman.
Chapter after chapter after chapter goes into great detail about her addiction to gambling and her attempts to cover her debts, but only gives ten or so pages to Georgiana’s relationship with Charles Grey and the birth of their illegitimate child.Georgiana is a fascinating person, but this book is just too long and too chalked full of facts.
A good, very thorough biography of a fascinating woman - Foreman is lucky to have had access to hundreds of letters written by Georgiana and her colleagues, so we get to see the historical figures telling their stories in their own words (something I'm not used to, being more fond of Tudor-era history).
In my history books, I like the scandal/politics to be about 60/40.
Also, the politics are described in a way that just puts me to sleep, as seen here:"Then, in March 1803, Addington made a formal offer to Pitt to join a new government in which both men would become Secretaries of State under the nominal premiership of the Earl of Chatham.
This book really took me by surprise. It's not candycoated historical fiction, it is a really exacting portrayal of Georgiana. The author has tons of (interesting) quotes and footnotes, and relies soley on facts to paint a RICH portrait of the french revolution, the whig party etc. REALLY GOOD! fun fact I learned from this book: apparently, while giviing toasts during the men-only portions of fancy dinners, english politicians would relieve themselves into chamber pots in the corners of rooms, while still speechifyin! WHAAA???
This biography is truly a gem. I enjoyed every word, from the first page, to the last.
This book was used to inspire the movie, The Duchess http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0864761/.
"The Duke was used to being flattered and cosseted by his mistress, Charlotte Spencer, and resented the emotional demands that Georgiana made upon him.""The Duke was used to his bachelor life: love he received from his mistress, companionship from his friends; from his wife he expected loyalty, support, and commitment to the family’s interests."Georgiana married in 1774.
[ £1,647,000.00 ], During Little G's season "Georgiana recorded in June after a supper ball for 1,000 people." And toward the end of her life Georgiana tried to come clean with her husband regarding her debts "The Duke had been expecting a sum of £5,000 or £6,000, not the £50,000 Georgiana eventually presented to him.
She does a great job in presenting the Duchess throughout her life and in all her colours and shades; as a young girl, rejected wife, desperate gambler, impetuous campaigner, caring mother and always- good friend.Georgiana was born in 1757 and died in 1806 so this book is set against the excesses and massive changes of the latter half of the eighteenth century.
Having seen the movie before reading, I was expecting the same seedy love affair between the unhappily wed but wildly popular Georgiana Spencer, great aunt to the late Princess Diana and Whig Party up-and-comer Charles Gray.
What I loved was the overarching thesis of the biography – women may not have had the vote, but given the status and opportunity, many had power – real power and in some cases political influence.
For Georgiana – she affected public opinion and the vote.Reading like an historical novel, this was a refreshing account more about the women who changed the Whig party than the aforementioned English tabloid scandal.
The author’s doctoral thesis was on Georgiana’s political life.Georgiana had a crippling gambling addiction that did much to ruin her happiness.
Excessive gambling was a common vice of the upper classes at the time (the author says gin served to ruin the lives of the lower classes) but it’s hard to sympathize with people who gamble away the equivalent of millions of dollars.I just watched the movie based on this book, starring Keira Knightly.
The movie is pretty good, but it completely omits Georgiana’s gambling problem, preferring to cast her as a nearly saintly creature betrayed and persecuted by a cold-hearted husband.
Very political, very sexual (not in a broad sense but with underlying tones.) It appears that Princess Diana's great aunt, seven times removed, set precedent for her niece on eccentricities.
Truly an amazing historical figure and in however she may have shamed her relatives and counterparts in the 1700's, she would be a woman of great importance and admiration in today's society when dealing with politics and fashion.
Still reading!!Finished!
It is amazing to me that the deeds done by those who lived hundreds of years before us still outshine the deeds of today...I speak politically, financially and sexually...and of nothing else.
Loved this book!
And she was dependent upon an even more deceitful woman who pushed her way into Georgiana's marriage and became the Duke's mistress and then the new Duchess of Devonshire just a few months after Georgiana died.
I can't understand why history, or this Oxford author, would set this weak, delusional woman up on a pillar just because she threw great parties and was influential in politics.
Yeah right, 'great' and powerful people have always been immoral." You can tell Ms. Foreman belongs to a breed of historians who attempt to re-write history to make our century's sins just inclusive on a pattern.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It certainly had a high volume of political discussion, but it didn't come off as overbearing because it was necessary to understand the politics in order to understand the actions of Georgiana and her friends (and enemies) in the political sphere.As a teenager, Georgiana agreed to marry the Duke of Devonshire to please her parents, and when she realized there would be no fairy-tale ending for her, she threw all of herself into four things: gambling, politics, her children, and her relationship with Bess Foster (and, for a brief time before her, Mary Graham).
Skimming through a selection of other reviews, I note that others who didn’t enjoy the book also cite the unusual lack of focus on Georgiana’s affair with Charles Grey.
I felt a little bit like I was on a treadmill of endless social affairs and the tedious intricacies of 18th century British politics.
I haven't rated it any lower because this really isn’t a bad book as such, but I had to rate it just a little below average because I did personally find it rather dry and tedious.
This is biography of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire who was the great-great-great-great-aunt of Diana, Princess of Wales.
Amanda Foreman's research work brings to life this famous historical and aristocratic character.
By marrying William Cavendish in 1774, she became a famous figure due to her political and fashion ambitions.
The book has plenty of Georgiana's correspondence, pictures and newspapers of that time giving engraving details of her life.
I haven't seen the movie The Duchess (2008) which was made based on this book with Keira Knightley, Ralph Fiennes, Dominic Cooper.
In any case, I doubt if this movie will reflect part of this magnificent book.
An excellent book. I'd rate it as 5 stars, if only something happened when I click on the stars!It was the first book that had begun to answer my numerous questions about daily life in pre-Austen England (although the daily life of the Duchess of Devonshire is hardly indicative of everybody elses). Remarcably documented, beautifully written and very informative, it's by far in my current top 10!
I like me a good historical biography, and my mother has plenty to lend me, but this isn't a period I am usually interested in. However, this is the story of an extremely interesting life, written in a fluent style which almost comes across as fiction at times.I may be buying into a genre here, but I still find that biographies written particularly by women, and often about women, are far more interesting to me than those written by men.
I watched the movie The Duchess, which was based on this biography, and was seriously disturbed by the nature of the family relationships and the lack of personal morality.
Many of the events described are sickening to watch.
Consequently, I couldn't get the story out of my mind, so I decided to read the book to see if the movie had taken any liberties....perhaps Georgiana's "real" story wouldn't be as bad as film portrayed it.
The book goes into more detail about the immorality of the times, the Duchess's debts, and messed up family life.
An interesting book about a fascinating woman. Good detail, although admittedly some of the politics (which I realise, since Georgina was involved was vital, but still) was a bit slow for me, but still, a good read.
That makes his biography of -- as my friend Claire put it -- "really bad people doing bad things to each other" seem really not so terrible.That said, it's a well researched biography with some very interesting facts thrown in.There are only a couple issues I had with it: one -- Georgiana is known for her devotion to her children and an involvement with them that was unusual at the time.
Though we get small snippets of reading about her breast feed and party plan, up until the moment she has to make the choice of her children or her lover, the author barely ever mentions them.
Biografia accuratissima dalla quale emerge prepotentemente la personalità di una donna ricca di paradossi e contraddizioni: madre amorevole, regina dei salotti inglesi, grande stratega e attivista politica, icona di stile, scrittrice, appassionata di mineralogia e chimica, amica e confidente di grandi figure storiche: Maria Antonietta, la Duchessa di Polignac, il Principe Reggente...Viene però ricordata principalmente per lo scandaloso, ma nemmeno poi tanto, ménage a trois che si instaurò tra lei, Lady Elizabeth Foster e il marito, il Duca del Devonshire, William Cavendish.
