https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/752756.Cornhuskers
Compared with Chicago Poems, this volume has more poems that deal with land and the rural man. I enjoyed this emphasis especially in the first section titled “Cornhuskers.” The war poems of the “Shenandoah” section were also pretty good although not on par with some of my favorite WWI poets like Sassoon, Owens, Rosenberg, or Brooke. This was the second volume in a book of the complete works of Sandburg. I’m leaning toward Sandburg not being one of my favorite poets at this point but we’ll see… to be continued…
Cornhuskers is prairie lyric. Leather Leggings is more urban. Haunts is affections. Persons Half Known is dull. Shenandoah is weak war poems.
The collection is divided into several sections including: “Cornhuskers”; “Persons Half Known”; “Leather Leggings”; “Haunts”; and “Shenandoah”.
The poems in this section often deal with nature and history and the feel of life in the rural plains areas.“Person’s Half Known” includes poems about people of some renown, though who they are is not always readily apparent.
As an example, “Clocks” deals with a variety of time-pieces and how they are used in different ways and “Flat Lands” deals with those in the real estate profession.“Haunts” deals with those feelings and memories which one remembers throughout their life.
This is honest, hard working, down to earth poetry. He celebrates the ordinary working people, and the lyricism and the rhythm swing to an industrial, instead of post-industrial beat. Some poems i love, some I don't like, but I learn from all of them. Some of the shorter satires are beautiful and devastating. It makes a nice, short break from the rest of life.
I do love Carl Sandburg and I love so many of his poems. What a wonderful person he was. I think he left earth giving much more than he took and humanity was better for it.
A beautiful day, a cup of coffee on the porch and a collection of accessible poems,... 1919 Pulitzer Prize winning poems.  Poet Carl Sandburg's poems of kings and soldiers war should be read today
I adored the opening poem. So colorful! The vast majority of the book was okay. The last poem was a favorite of mine too. I definitely prefer his lengthy poetry.
While there are some issues with certain poems in this collection - the usage of the word "nigger" certainly sits ill with us modern readers - it is overall a beautiful collection that paints a picture of both the vastness of the world and of its humbler details.
Sandburg's love of the wide open spaces of the world is as clear and as evident as his anti-war sentiment in the latter parts of the book.
Some poems stick in the mind more than others - among them 'Leather Leggings' and 'The Sea Hold', but there are few weak points to be found here.
I attended Carl Sandburg Jr High School and read a few of his poems then, but this is the first time I spent any real time with his works. I enjoyed some of the poems and others, not so much. This may have been because this book was part of a collection of Pulitzer Prize winners which I read on kindle. It was difficult to navigate through the book so I read it straight through, which is not how I normally read poetry.
I'd be first to admit that I'm not much of an expert on poetry. That being said, I really don't understand how this book won a Pulitzer. Virtually none of the poems here (with one or two exceptions) speak to me in any significant way. I prefer poetry that presents ideas rather than creates beautiful imagery. Especially when that imagery pertains to corn. Plus, there's no less poeteic word to me than the n-word, which Sandburg seems to have a fixation with.
Fans of Whitman will be immediately taken with this, and it reminded me also of Benét's "Western Star," from the perspective of celebrating American spirit and history. The final poem, 'Four Brothers,' is just an amazing portrait of WWI (here on Bartleby, by the way: http://bartleby.com/134/103.html).
At its best when Sandburg paints with the same voice from his earlier Chicago Poems. His poems of WWI are to me less effective, and more of a single note.
The poems contained in the "Shenandoah" segment are powerful and beautiful and sad. This collection of poetry is wonderful.
Another homerun for Sandburg
Excellent book, did not enter my heart the same way Chicago Poems did.Looking forward to reading more from Carl Sandburg.
