https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114211.The_MacGregor_Brides
I liked the story about the three grand-daughters. If I had to rank them then Julia would be my least favourite.
A lovely anthological addition to the MacGregor series.The book is about how Daniel, the 90 year old patriarch grandfather interferes in his granddaughters' lives to get them married.
Contains stories of three couples.
The had the most crazy in love gestures.Safe + v card Julia and Cullum Most passionate of the three stories was this heavy lust between arch enemies and contractors, which then turns to love Safe with exceptions (view spoiler)[ they have known each other for two years and dated other people.
When they get together, it's safe  (hide spoiler)]Overall a really good book.Safe as an average4/5
At this point, the only one who wasn't played and made the choice on his own was Alan from the second generation!Seeing as Daniel is over ninety years old, he's speeding things up, so, in less than two years, he has decided to see three of his granddaughters married and round with little MacGregors.
My favorite of the three, I admit, and maybe it was because of my obsession with love-hate relationships...Julia MacGregor is Alan's little girl, and, just like her mother, Shelby, she is not one to settle down because someone tells her to.
This wasn't the best book, but it wasn't all that bad.
I went into this book kind of expecting what I was getting (thanks to other readers' reviews) and so I wasn't disappointed when the 3 short stories all turned out extremely similarly.
I was kind of annoyed that the realizations of the couples all occured at Christmastime, it was just to predicatble by the time I got to the third story (which, by the way, was my favorite of the three).
Too bad real life isn't as easy as romance novels make them out to be.
2.5
bas lepo
but he always know what guy is good for his family.
she falls for a security ex-officer named royce.
He smiles with that crocket cocky smile and tells her why his there and how he came in.......Nexts its gwen book.
She's the doctor dauther of Serena Mcgregor and Justain blake both casino owners.
She falls for a fantasy author named branson.
He laughs and tells her he came for help daniel had recommended her for the job.
He wanted to know more about female doctors......Finally this books for juila the businesswomen she's the daughter of shelby campbell and Alan mcgregor.
Here comes the BridesIn the continuing saga of the Macgregors, Nora Roberts introduces us to three grown up granddaughters of the likable Patrioch, Daniel Macgregor.
There's Laura, Gwen, and Julia, cousins.
All three independent and hard working.
What ensues will make you laugh, and cry and shout for more as each story winds to its end.
I found their lives and the way they are led from beginning to end so much fun to read I couldn't put it down.
Definitely a good read.
I think you'll enjoy their stories, so go out and read it soon.
4 stars: Laugh out loud, enjoyable summer readI really like this light hearted, humorous series.
Great characters.
I've read almost all of the books in this series and enjoyed them.
Not knowing it was a series, I started with this book.
My favs in the series are the later books (including this one) with three generations of MacGregors and the matchmaking, meddlesome grandfather.
I actually think I liked the series more by starting with those books, because it made me more interested to go back and read the other characters story.
I loved the way the MacGregor was protrayed.
I really enjoyed this book.
It's actually the first book I've read about the MacGregors.
I loved how everyone called the grandpa the McGregor, he really was quite a character and a master manipulator.
But it was all done in a loving way.
Daniel McGregor has lived a long and happy life with his wife besides him.
Laura,Gwen and Julie are all quite busy with there chosen careers and have no time for men.That is until the McGregor sends into there life's a man who he thinks is perfect for them.
I won't spoil the endings, try the book.
Opinião no blogue: https://a-lilianaraquel.blogspot.com/...
I love the MacGregors!!! Can't wait to get started on the MacGregor Grooms! This Book is so fun to read! Each story has its unique qualities and it's similarities. It catches your attention with the first page, and by getting inside Grandfather MacGregors mind with his memoir entries. I love that MacGregor! Mora Roberts has done it again! I will be talking about and recomending her books for as long as I live. Love, love, love them!!
These stories were too RUSHED individually. I would have preferred maybe that they all have taken place at the same time and intertwined with each other. Maybe starting and ending at different points in the book. NOT a favorite in this series.
2-2.5, but not 3 stars.
My absolutely favorite part of The MacGregor Brides is Daniel MacGregor, the grandfather of Laura, Gwendolyn and Julia.
But Daniel feels like it’s high time his granddaughters get married and give their grandmother (really, himself) babies to love.Daniel is quite clever, but also a bit devious in his methods to get his granddaughters married.
When Daniel arranges for a new security system to be installed in the house that Laura, Gwen and Julia live in, Laura meets Royce.
It’s very easy to see what Royce and Laura would make a great couple.Gwendolyn’s story is my least favorite.
It has all you want for a Christmas read, great characters, snow, romance and fun.This book consists of three stories, each story follows the life of one McGregor Grand daughter that Daniel McGregor (the Grand Father) thinks should be settling down.
Daniel is a great character whom you fall in love with even though he is a rogue (but a loveable one) and who you want to see get what he wants.
The grand daughters think they are smarter than him and that they will recognise when they are being set up but No. How the men try and win the hearts of each lady is really lovely.Well worth a read and would recommend it to all.
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
Ok so a Mills and Boon book ( my first ever) and I loved it, I adore Nora Roberts doing Romance so this worked well for me! Laura , Gwen and Julia have a matchmaking grandfather who is determined to see them married off to " good stock" ( hate that phrase lol) and the book is split into three parts, each covering how their romance pans out. Nice easy read, and I think I have a few more of that series kicking about, time to dig them out I think!
The MacGregors are Roberts most beloved family (in my personal opinion). I have read almost all of their saga. The MacGregor is the a real charater. The way he manipulates his family into finding the loves they deserve is priceless.
4.5 stars Daniel Duncan MacGregor is at it again. Planning and scheming to get his three granddaughters married off and start making a family. A must read. Cant wait to read the next book
Three cute and slightly cheesy Christmas novellas. A comfort reread.
The MacGregor Bridesby Nora RobertsPublished in 1997 by Silhouette an imprint of Harlequin Books USA ISBN -13 978-0-373-28560-0Nora Roberts is the author of 228 books and is a #1 New York Times bestselling author. She has a large and loyal category-romance audience. Since her first book was published in 1981, she has become a New York Times publishing phenomena (average of 6 books annually). Like many authors of this genre Nora Roberts writes her stories in a series. The MacGregors – Daniel and
The MacGregor Bridesby Nora RobertsPublished in 1997 by Silhouette an imprint of Harlequin Books USA ISBN -13 978-0-373-28560-0Nora Roberts is the author of 228 books and is a #1 New York Times bestselling author.
. .Category Romance requires the author to write short, write often and to a set formula so the reader knows what to expect when they pick up the book—Rough alpha male, beautiful, rich, young, successful female.
The MacGregor Brides written as three short romances, about three cousins: Laura, Gwen and Julia.
The MacGregor picks security consultant Royce Cameron of Cameron Security to put in a system in the house where Laura lives with her two cousins.
Poor Gwen, she really should've known better.Last is Julia MacGregor, a businesswoman who delights in finding houses that need rehab and, once restored, sells them.
The MacGregor needs a partner this time, the father of Cullum Murdoch, their choice for Julia.
Of course, Julia and Cullum have more background, not starting off as strangers like the other two couples did.One of the things I love about Roberts, other than her strong characterization, is how she can make her love scenes hot without tipping over into erotic graphic descriptions.
En apenas treinta páginas más que los anteriores nos cuenta tres historias de amor, de las tres nietas de Daniel MacGregor.
De lo que me quedo yo con este libro son dos cosas:La primera es que debes ser siempre tú mismx, porque si para gustarle a alguien tienes que fingir ser alguien que no eres entonces no merece la pena, porque al final dejarás de ser tú, te sentirás fatal porque sentirás que eres un fraude y probablemente genere mucho odio y resentimiento hacia la otra persona.
I am a big Nora Roberts fan ...
and this charming, fun book of three linked novellas didn't disappoint.
Never mind whether they would welcome his matchmaking efforts or not, he sets out to link his three granddaughters Laura, Gwendolyn, and Julia with 'fine men who will make fine good babies - a credit to the MacgGregor line.'...
Despite his interference and bumbling, all his matches turn out to be good ones in the end ...
and each story is fun to read....
Roberts is a masterful writer.
Oh, this was a perfect book for a romantic like me.
The MacGregor clan is a perfect family, love and care in everyone's heart for eachother.
The three stories here about Daniel MacGregor's granddaughters, Laura, Gwendolyn and Julia are all warm and fuzzy with a pinch of spice.
The schemer grandpa, Daniel, have chosen Strong Stock of lads for his beautiful and smart granddaughters.
Even though arranged he let them meet and fall in love, for he loves his family and their happiness is his happiness.
Beautiful stories.
Love this book.
Nora Roberts you have a special place in my heart.
It was like watching a movie in my head.
Daniel MacGregor is the 90-year-old patriarch of the illustrious family. His son is an ex-president and he has 3 grand-daughters he feels ought to be married. The three novellas tell of his plans to pair them with the men he wants. Laura is a lawyer and she gets put with an ex-cop security expert Royce. Gwendolyn is a surgeon who gets paired with a famous mystery/detective writer. The final is Julia, a real estate/rehab expert who he pairs with a rehab/contractor. All dislike the interference, but all fall.
The usual boy meets girl, falls in love, overcomes hurdles, gets married and lives happily ever after kind of stories. But with a twist. :)The boy meets the girl because the girl's grandpa sets it up. Yup, he's a bigtime matchmaker. Some of you may feel irritated and find that he's very meddlesome. But his character is that of a big sweetheart! Loved reading about the different characters.
Honestly, this was one of the worst things I have ever read. It was so boring and choppy and unbelievable that I feel like this had to be published as a joke, because if someone actually thought this was decent, much less good, they probably have a degree of brain damage.
Batranul Daniel MacGregor ajuns la venerabila varsta de 90 de ani, decide ca a venit timpul sa se ocupe de casatoria celor trei nepoate mai mari care nu par decise sa faca acest pas cu toate ca se apropie de 30 de ani.
Deja i-s ales pe cei trei viitori miri si trebuie doar sa-i impinga pe unii si pe altii de la spate pentru a le crea senzatia ca totul se datoreaza unor fericite intamplari.
O lume in care personajele sunt frumoase, sanatoase si mai ales bogate adica intrunesc toate conditiile pentru a fi fericite dupa cum sustine de altfel si patriarhul familiei, Daniel Duncan MacGregor.
