https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22008520-sherlock-holmes
Just as good as Volume One. I want someone to make me a tshirt with a picture of Holmes and Watson exchanging necklaces with "BFFs" inscribed on them.
(actually, considering the time period, I suppose they'd exchange engraved watches or something.)Oh Watson, how I love you.
Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law are wonderful as Holmes and Watson, and their combined awesome can overcome Rachel McAdam's miscasting as Irene Adler.
They take Irene Adler, an awesome character from A Scandal in Bohemia (Volume I) and degrade her into a silly former fling of Holmes' (does.
I'mean we're talking Sherlock Holmes here; probably the most famous detective in mystery fiction.
I would have if I thought outside the box (which you should in mystery novels), but the author did a good job in misleading the reader with a lot of events going on at the same time.
The second half of the tale takes you back 20 years in to the past where a lot of things related to the story is explained.
Among Sherlock Holmes novels, this was my favorite.The rest was a collection of short stories which were interesting enough to read.
Such a fun journey with my favorite couple.
Als ich klein war, habe ich zeimlich viele Sherlock Holmes Geschichten gelesen.
Und jetzt, nachdem ich die zwei Bände und alle Sherlock Holmes Werke am Stück gelesen habe, ist eben der Roman meine allerliebste Geschichte.
Der Fall ist cool, das Setting beeindruckend und gruselig, die Charaktere wachsen einem sehr schnell ans Herz und es ist alles so emotional.
Alles in allem hatte ich sehr viel Spaß mit Holmes und Watson.
Aber ich finde, besonders die Kurzgeschichten könnte man sich gut über einen langen Zeitraum verteilen.
Ich bin aber froh, jetzt alles gelesen zu haben und ich bin sehr begeistert von Arthur Conan Doyles Schreibweise.
If you know anything about Sherlock Holmes apart from the Robert Downey Jr. movie versions, then you will have a good idea of what you are getting into when you pick up this book. The Valley of Fear is the best Holmes novel, in my opinion, and it was interesting to read the two stories in this collection that are told by Sherlock himself. Nothing earth-shattering here, just good 'ol meat-and-potatoes mystery writing.
Amazing
I have at last finished the Sherlock Holmes tales. After a while there comes a certain sameness to the method, but as it is an enjoyable sameness, it is not a significant drawback. In those few stories not narrated by Watson he is missed, never more so than when Holmes himself is the narrator—an experiment which, to me, fails. But, no matter what legitimate criticism might be voiced against the oeuvre, it seems to me more satisfying than not.
As we proceed through his adventures, Mr. Holmes gradually lets go of his "art of deduction" and tends to lean toward the joy of thrill. Though the lost aspect is really missed, it still continues with being great read and sketching one of the loveliest characters of literature history.
I love Sherlock so much that it makes me sad to know that I’ve read all the stories. I wish there was more!
Believe it or not, even though I love mysteries, I had never read Sherlock Holmes! This was the second volume, and I enjoyed it a bit more than the first volume. I do want to go back to re-read the stories that featured Irene Adler and Moriarty.
Debería de contar cómo 4 libros. The valley of fear es ahora mi novela favorita de Sherlock Holmes y este volumen está lleno de cuentos magníficos de los que sería difícil escoger uno.
However, I will attempt a brief review.Watson's narrative provides an unbiased telling of the various cases he shares with his eccentric, renowned pal, and we must follow along until Holmes is ready to divulge his process of analysis and unearth the true murderer or criminal.
Arthur Conan Doyle knew how to keep his audience guessing until the very end, and I think that’s what I like most about his stories.
Also, near the end of our beloved stories, as if Doyle seems to portray Holmes as more human than previously; that even the greatest detective sometimes makes mistakes and doesn’t always know the full answer.
The only thing I regret about reading the stories of Sherlock Holmes in two great big chunks is that I feel like it's all over too soon.
From that sitting room I embark on, with Holmes and Watson, so many mind boggling adventures where I try as I might, like Watson does, to keep up with the great Sherlock Holmes.
I rather like watching him prove his talents time and again.John Watson faithfully chronicles the adventures of Sherlock Holmes for us, as Holmes is called to many a case where it is never about the money, only the mental exercise.
I actually only got one story into this volume before I had to turn it back in to the library. I couldn't renew it because someone else wanted it! At this point, my Sherlock furor has eased up a bit, but I will eventually recheck and finish this volume.
Sometimes a little slow going. But you just can't go past all those lovely plots. Such a pity technology these days renders most of Doyle's twists and turns obsolete.
I love Sherlock Holmes. Some stories were better than others, but I truly enjoyed it.
am done , I feel so accomplished it took me tremendous time to finish this volume, over three months with 11 other novels in-between, you can't tackle Sherlock Holmes novels, you have to take it slowly, piece be piece, adventure by adventure, enjoy each one, and indulge yourself with the old Victorian British narrating of Doyle.
no matter where you were just opening the book takes you to another place and takes your mind with it to try and solve what problems that may lay .
and picturing Watson the loyal companion,that no one would be ever lucky to have a friend like .
but i was that lucky to have both of them as companions through this time and for this i'm grateful .
*But i would also advice to read the stories seperately so as not to get bored with a 700 page book
I did not enjoy this as a whole volume as much as the first volume. I didn't find the novels to be that enjoyable and after reading them found it difficult to find the motivation to continue the rest of the book.The short stories were much better, and especially enjoyed that two short stories were in the point of view of Sherlock Holmes, which was interesting to see. I also liked the change in, I think it was, one or two of the short stories being in third person was also interesting.
Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, nothing can be wrong with the novels and stories of their adventure. This volume 2 was equally engaging like volume 1. Stories from the perspective of Holmes were also enjoyable.
Entertaining...would be good to read to an audience on dark and gloomy nights.
My favourites
I can say that I am addicted to Sherlock Holmes and pretty much disappointed that tha book ended. It's great
The second coming of Sherlock -- the original canon. His career's second half was not as strong as his first but still a lot of fun.
Can't go wrong with the classics. I enjoyed all of the stories
Brilliant.
This is the 2nd part of Arthur Conan Doyle's Complete Novels and Stories. The edition consists of the possibly most well known novel 'The Hound of the Baskervilles', but the main part of the book contains a collection of the Sherlock short stories. I like those better than the novels actually, as they are describing only one case each, which makes it feel more like an actual diary.The edition is just as great as the first volume, though as I said, I like the short stories and the 2nd installment more than the first one overall.
“Someday, the true story may be told.”These were Sherlock Holmes’ last words as written on page 737 of Sherlock Holmes Complete Novels and Stories Volume 2, by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Imagine with those four novels and 56 short stories (divided in Volumes 1 and 2), readers and fans like me, can truly have the opportunity to know him on a deeper level and have a clear picture of him as if he really exists in real life.I couldn’t be more grateful to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle for bringing the greatest detective ever in our lives, in my life specifically.
It has been sitting there for a while and I just couldn't complete it. I have decided to shelve it for now.
While I can imagine Doyle enjoying the challenge as a writer of the shifted perspective and the changed writing style of Holmes vs.
Watson, the stories suffer as a result in comparison to the classic Holmes format and style.Doyle would have to (and did) seek other avenues to stretch his artistic muscles.
See for example Lost World & the Poison Belt where Doyle introduces his Professor Challenger character.And in any case, compared to so much of the modern adventure or mystery fiction, these still deserve the rating of "What a Classic" for the care and competence involved in constructing them and the cozy familiarity of the Holmes magic.
