https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769729.At_Play_in_the_Fields_of_the_Lord
Protestant missionaries, Catholic missionaries, and a Lakota con-man turned his own sort of missionary in the Amazon jungle.
Everyone's flawed, everyone has a plan to save the Natives, and everyone loses their minds a bit.
The most likeable character turns out to be the hellfire and brimstone Protestant missionary.
They made a good movie of it, too, but the scenes on mind-altering drugs don't work so well in there.
Peter Matthieson is the man, but stay away from his short stories -- they suck.If you liked The Poisonwood Bible, well, this is better (but obviously not if you're going for a history of the Congo).
I read this book twice, in 1989 in Africa and in 1996 in Brazil, then I spent five years among the Yanomami Indians and was able to experience many of the things described in the story.
The events are as tragic as anything in Shakespeare, but they are close to real life in their dimensions and horror.
The descriptions of life in the Amazon are precise and accurate; the book's depictions of indigenous peoples are marvelously evocative.
No other book that I've read paints a clearer picture of the conflict between civilization and nature.
The movie version of AT PLAY IN THE FIELDS OF THE LORD was very good.
The plot becomes too fragmented, and the characters are vague and mostly unappealing.
For some reason, various books published in the late 60's or early 70's feel a need to show us characters tripping out on drugs or being affected by narcotics in some way.
Okay, drug use was a sign of the times or part of the sub-culture during that time period, but so what?
The drug induced states come across as a huge distraction in Matthiessen's book.
Forget the book and watch the film.
Moon sank down slowly on the edge of the other bed and contemplated the round face and the roistering beard, the inseparable earring and dark glasses and beret like grotesque toys." I opened to a couple of random pages and found those little gems.
It truly is a brilliant piece of literature, but I just don't want to stay in this hellish world with these tragic people anymore.
In At Play, Matthiessen tackles another genocide, or at least a potential one—that of Indian tribes in the upper Amazon—viewing it through the eyes of several different Christian missionaries, as well as at least one non-believer who may exhibit a truer humanity than any of them.In the opening scene, Martin Quarrier, his wife Hazel, and nine-year-old son Billy fly over what I take to be the Peruvian Andes to a small frontier town on the headwaters of the Amazon.
Matthiessen's main focus among the Christians is the dynamic that grows between Martin, Hazel, Leslie, and Andy, as each reacts in different ways to the conditions in which they find themselves.

I would have been much more interested had the book been about his back story only.I did, however, like Wolf, though I have to admit to always imagining him in my mind as played by Tom Waits from the film.
In the end I do not feel as if I learned anything insightful about Christian missionaries, about native Amazon Indians, about South American politics (the parallel story of Guzman reads like a bad Hollywood movie), nor about the larger issues of faith and acceptance.
This is the first of Peter Matthiessen's fiction books I have read, having read a couple of his non-fiction books and enjoyed them.I wasn't sure whether I would like this - but Matthiessen's characters, so flawed and so realistic, in the setting of the jungles of the Amazon amongst savage native Indians - fantastic stuff.The infantile feuding between Protestant and Catholic missionaries, all either corrupt, fooling themselves, blinded to their own ambition, or miserable in themselves.
Mind altering ayahuasca, the native hallucinogenic drug.
I liked this book, a great story, and Matthiessen's description of life in the Amazon jungle and of the Niaruna is fascinating. At the same time, some of the writing is pretty (shockingly) hokey. So while I'd like to give this 4-stars, I can't quite do it.
I picked this book of the three or so offerings and laid it on the stack I was accumulating for the weeks reading.As I began to read I immediately became sucked in and totally immersed in the story, the setting, the characters.
Though the central character, Moon was someone that I wanted to overcome the hand life had dealt him and in the end perhaps he was the only one who had successfully been reborn, redeemed, saved.Fascinating book, lot of topics to give thought to such as forcing our idea of a Higher Power that is better, more redeeming than the "savages" idea of a higher power.
The setting actually feels more like Brazil, but it's somewhere where Spanish is spoken, rather than Portuguese.The story focuses on three main groups of people: a barely contacted indigenous South American tribe, whose previous contacts with the modern world have been mostly negative, some gung-ho Christian missionaries, who refuse to take no for an answer, and two down-on-their-luck smugglers/mercenaries who are stuck in the middle of nowhere, and looking for a way to get out.This is the kind of book that could have easily turned into a polemic about all kinds of topics, as it touches on so many subjects that bring out such strong feelings in people: religion and technology and what the modern world has done to us.
Sometimes I had to skim just to keep moving through paragraphs, which makes me think admire Matthiessen's writing at the same time it makes me not want to read another novel by him for a while.At Play in the Fields of the Lord is about missionaries and native people in the jungles of South America, and it reminded me of The Poisonwood Bible, though it was written before TPB.
The story and the characters were complex but not too complicated, and I think it would be a fun book to read and write about analytically, but I wish the person who read my copy before me had kept her notes to herself.
From my Christian perspective I was intrigued by the verbal sword play between the "evangelicos" and the Catholic priest that the author meted out in various parts of the book, and I was reminded of the all too recent near-enmity between Protestant and Catholic branches of Christianity.
Of the women, Hazel appears to be the more enigmatic, but by the end of the book the reader realizes that Andy is more disturbing, even, than Hazel.
The huts fought off rank weeds and thick lianas which crept up from behind, and the interiors were infiltrated by pale tentacles, squalid liverwort and creeping fungi." The characters and the plot seem to match the fierceness of the jungle.
Incredibly insightful story raising the question of Christianity’s role in the genocide of Natives in South America. Powerfully well-written.
Interesting, real and captivating, but ultimately not my type of book. It's depressing and underscores man's worst aspects. Perhaps that makes it a good book but for me it was 3 stars. I simply thought it was not enjoyable.
Author Peter Matthessen is a naturalist and documentary filmmaker.
At Play in the Fields of the Lord is a novel set in the Amazon.
The same year he wrote the novel he also worked on the famous but somewhat controversial documentary Dead Birds.At Play in the Fields of the Lord is another take on Heart of Darkness.
I liked At Play in the Fields of the Lord more than I did Heart of Darkness but I still find the themes rather hard to swallow.Readers who have enjoyed Barbara Kinsolver's Poisonwood Bible will probably like At Play in the Fields of the Lord.
A penetrating, visceral novel that plays out in a backwater hell-hole village deep in the Bolivian Amazon.
The cast of characters includes fundamentalist Christian missionaries, a drunken and thoroughly debauched military commander, two professional mercenaries, and a tribe of pre-contact Amazonian tribesman.
This amazing ensemble sets the stage for deep, and often profoundly disturbing insights into the nature of the human mind, the ambiguities surrounding moral behavior, and our capacity for both intentional and unintentional evil.
A must-read book that is simultaneously penetrating and entertaining.
Not for the faint of heart.The book's utter authenticity derives from Matthiessen's own travels in South America during a year-long assignment for The New Yorker magazine.
Such earthily irreverent work reminds me of Tom Robbins at his best.A family comes to Remate del Males to help expand the missionary founded by a young couple.
The missionaries want to save the natives not only from their paganism but also from the catalicos who have been in the jungles of South America for hundred of years.
And Lewis Moon is a Native American from South Dakota who leads a shady life and the local government official of the district won’t let him leave the area.The earth tones in which Matthiessen portrays these people in their pride, short-sightedness, bumbling, sometimes sincerity is graphic and tragic, and blind-siding.
I agree with a previous reviewer that this is similar in theme to Conrad's Heart of Darkness. A group of American evangelical missionaries move to the Amazon to convert the natives. This is a dark story leaving the reader with more questions than answers. The prose is excellent (albeit lengthy at times) and the characters are well-developed. The film version is superb and has an outstanding cast including a scene with Kathy Bates that is one of the greatest performances ever done on screen.
What an exuberant mess of a book! It galloped forward. So much happened. I mean, there is a sheer overwhelming flood of happenings in his book, assaulting the reader almost, at the pace of The Perils of Pauline, a series of "and-then, and then, and-then's"... I loved that something so well written and so thoughtful and so philosophically rich could also be jam-packed with action. Ridiculous and great at the same time.
Beautifully written book about missionaries in the rain forest of South America. The physical details are evocative and mesmerizing. There was a lot to think about as I read. For myself, I did not find a psychological connection to the characters, but Mattiessen is such a good writer, I was willing to step into their world and live it as they were living it.
A flaming soul-wringer of a book. This tale of repressed and horny missionaries and crazed mercenaries pestering the wild Indians of South America contains more sweaty hysteria and seething malarial madness than Heart of Darkness or The Wages of Fear.
The child placed in danger is their only real point of connection with the Indians, his innocence and enthusiasm a magnet for consensus in a way that the absurdly grotesque internecine fighting of the Catholics and Protestants could never possibly be.Lewis Moon, the half-Indian played by Tom Berenger in the film, is a wonderful character, an educated, cynical, magnetic and complicated individual who has to all intents and purposes dropped out of the rat race and now 'finds himself' after a trip, deciding to fly on a suicidal dawn reconnaissance mission over the Niaruna Indians and then present himself to them as a god/spirit.
Western society plays its cards: nerdy good folk vs 'cool' bad folk.
I don’t know why this book rubbed me so totally the wrong way.
I think what really got to me about this book was the writing style.
For one thing, the book felt endless.
For example, near the end when Moon had been living with the Niaruna for a while, I had no idea whether he could speak their language fluently or not.
In many of the exchanges between the Niaruna and the missionaries, I had no idea what language they were speaking.
By showing the other side of things, a man's conversion to the "savage" Niaruna way of life, as well as telling the tale of the evangelicos, this book reveals more about human nature, cultural contrasts, and the misunderstandings and problems that come when you try to force belief systems into being than a simpler narrative possibly could.
The way the characters change, becoming more similar to one another as their lives fall apart, is as true a human experience as can be found.
There are a lot of classic Mathiessen strengths in this novel: marvellous clarity and evocative power of portrayal of landscapes and animals; searingly honest vision of human frailties and social and religious hypocrisy; unpretentious and insightful meditations on the big moral issues, the co-existence of appalling suffering, awe inspiring beauty and a kind of ever elusive but crucial grace in the scheme of things.
But there is some terribly clunky dialogue, none of the characters are close to as convincing as in his masterpiece Shadow Country, and some are very thin.
As several reviewers who love M have well said, some indefinable magic is missing here; but it's still better than most novels I've read this year.
This book was very interesting, and had a lot of different sub plots going on that I found interesting. The plot was very similar to the plot of the movie Avatar, which was really funny. I didn't really like the ending at all, because the book just ended without a real explanation of what happened to the rest of the characters. It started out well, but was overall disappointing.
Really interesting novel about missionaries trying to convert an indigenous community in Peru back in the 1960s. But about a lot more...sounds weird, but actually pretty good. Really excellent writer. Some missionaries we met said it puts them in a bad light...so depends on the reader of course.
It is sometimes hard to name my top ten favorite books, but not hard to name this as one of my top ten favorite books. Perhaps top five, I'm not good with numbers. I just know that if I pick it up and open it up, I'll end up reading it again. That's rare for me. Peter, you will be missed.
Slow start, but once we get into the jungle, it was fascinating.
