https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396931.The_Origins_of_Totalitarianism
Instead, The Origins of Totalitarianism reads like a slow motion dread-fest that builds in momentum as the reader learns about the collective thoughts of the population at the time.
Arendt attempted to create a book that weaves human thought together when we are assembled together en-masse (no easy feat), and display the inner workings of those who inhabited an Imperialistic world full of expansion and domination.
این اثر با ترجمهی "محسن ثلاث" کتابیست خواندنی برای هر آنکس که در یک سیستم توتالیتر زندگی میکند
این اثر با ترجمه‌ی "محسن ثلاث" کتابیست خواندنی برای هر آنکس که در یک سیستم توتالیتر زندگی می‌کند
It covers a vast amount of topics:a) Antisemitism and Jewish identity, through its varied and palpable expressions (and a focus on the divisive Dreyfus affair in late 19th century France).b) Imperialism, the domination of the wealthy, white bourgeoisie, and of capitalistic expansionism over a Mob that seeks a big-mouth/firm-hand leader, is ready to believe in plain ideology, and willing to single out a scapegoat, based on racism (or such).c) Totalitarianism, in its two central figures: Nazism (based on racism) and Bolshevism (based on communism), not to be confused, says Arendt, with other regimes such as despotism, tyranny or dictatorship, inasmuch as totalitarianism proper is based on: turning people into a commodity; the prohibition to dissent; and the utter control of each individual’s every move (the end of private life) — Internet and big data surveillance, in this sense, might well become a totalitarian’s dream in the context of 21th century capitalism.You can certainly skip the messy bulk of this book and read only the last chapter, a very dynamic text titled Ideology and Terror: A Novel Form of Government.
"Totalitarianism is a political system in which the state recognizes no limits to its authority and strives to regulate every aspect of public and private life."Some have said this should be required reading to prepare ourselves to face the changing political climate armed with information, as we watch again the rise of nationalism, the rise of antisemitism, the rise to power of what could be a new demagogue: 'a political leader who tries to get support by making false claims and promises and using arguments based on emotion rather than reason.' We have every reason to be greatly worried.
Profound insight into totalitarian movements--not just how they happen but why, getting at the psychology behind their appeal and the social and psychological conditions that allow them to grow. The writing is clear-eyed, penetrating, and deeply unsettling.
I was shocked to find that certain baffling features of contemporary political movements suddenly make perfect, terrifying sense when viewed from a totalitarian perspective.
Some fun things I learned about totalitarian movements:-Totalitarian movements deny objective reality and deliberately enclose themselves and their populations in a self-manufactured world of ever-changing fictions.-Totalitarian movements are not pro-national movements.
A totalitarian movement's goal is ultimately to destroy the nation it inhabits.
(I'd always thought totalitarianism meant more and harsher laws) Totalitarian movements abandon all law and strive toward utter lawlessness.
-In totalitarian movements, the power of the military becomes second to the power of intelligence agencies.-Totalitarian movements always aspire to global dominationGood fun!
يجبُ أن يظلّ القائد الأعلى على صوابٍ دائماً، ولا يُكتفى بهذا فحسب بل لا يُسمح نهائياً بانتقاد أي شخص ينتمي إلى أيّ منصبٍ حيثُ أنّ هذا الشخص وجوده معبّر ودليل عن وجود القائد نفسه، بينما لا نجدُ هذا في كثيرٍ من الأنظمة الاستبداديّة العاديّة حيث يجعل الديكتاتور مسافة بينه وبين رجاله يمكنه من خلالها التضحية بهم إذا ما ألحّت الظروف وكثُر الضغط واشتدّ.مع وجود طغيان تكنولوجي رهيب وامتلاك الحكومات الآن قدرة رهيبة على استخراج أدق التفاصيل وثنايا المعيشة للأفراد والقدرة، وبكل سهولة، على رسم شجرة العلاقات ما بين الأفراد المحكومين وبعضهم البعض، ما مثّل أحد أحلام الدولة الشموليّة في امتلاك تلك المعرفة الشاملة وحصار الفرد، بقي لنا أن نتساءل: ما مدى احتمالية ظهور شموليّات أخرى في هذا القرن (عدا شموليّة كوريا الشماليّة البائسة)..
من أهم الكتب التي قرأتها هذا العام، ولعله أكثر الكتب التي أطلت في تأملها والاقتباس منها ومراجعتها، ربما بحكم اعتقادي براهنية الظاهرة أو إرهاصاتها رغم عدم تحققها كدولة في تاريخنا (العربي الإسلامي) القديم أو الحديث، واستهلمت من الكتاب مقالي "أيديولوجيا الوهم: النزعة المؤامراتية وسردياتها"، كما أضاء لي جوانب عديدة لتفسير ظاهرة داعش (وبعض من غيرها)، سايكولوجيّاً وسوسيولوجيّاً وحركيّاً.وحنه تبقى مثالاً نادراً وجميلاً حقّاً يتحدّى الزعم الذكوري –الواقعي غالباً- بلا إبداعية النساء، وهي مناسبة للتخلي المؤقت عن النرجسية المعرفية الذكورية، مؤقتاً فقط.
When the memory banks are sketchy, I riff away with whatever appears most recognizable upon the faded deposit slips.John Lukacs dismissed this book with contempt, tagging Arendt's writing within as shrilly verbose and her method as unhistorical, and flatly stating that her section on Totalitarianism had initially been crafted solely in regard to the Nazis, but that—with the Cold War hot and suddenly on everybody's mind—she hastily worked in references to the Communist juggernaut in an effort to cash in on the burgeoning interest and score the big bucks.

some sentences 50+ words long but you only need to read them once because they are both precise and action-packed.
hannah had obviously read thousands of books and essays and letters on the subject.
i suppose it is possible that she assumed her audience would also be like her, so that she only needed to point at her sources, rather than reprise the events and people that are the subjects of history.
there are multiple footnotes on most pages and about 1000 items in the bibliography.if you want to learn how the world came to look like it does, don't read this.
خواندن این کتاب را به همه دوستان توصیه میکنم.#فلسفه سیاسی _اجتماعی
Like 1984 and The Handmaid's Tale, Arendt's Origins of Totalitarianism is becoming all too relevant again.
Arendt spends her time on the conditions of Europe in the early 20th century be they political, economic, intellectual, spiritual to show how the Nazi movement and the Bolsheviks used the violent racist undercurrents, the rootlessness, the sadistic impulses generated by imperialism and WWI to the formation of ideological movements bent on domination of civil society and individual.
If one looks to the text with current events in mind one can hear the echoes and warning signs in our present politics with the terrors of this period.
If you are worried about the present Orwell, Atwood, and Arendt are good guides on what to look out for and hopefully avoid.
Ieri sera a “In Onda”, l’ex ministro Calenda ed ora esternatore a tempo pieno si è “ombrato” ( leggi “scagliato contro” con la moderazione e pacatezza proprie della classe alto borghese che il P.D. rappresenta) con il titolo di copertina di Famiglia Cristiana “Vade Retro Salvini”.Non si può rispondere con un giudizio morale, diceva, quando si tratta di affrontare e risolvere un problema epocale come la immigrazione incontrollata.
Arendt, noterebbe come la filosofa non riesca a dare una spiegazione socio politica ( accuratissima sulle cause lontane e vicine all’origine del nazismo e il fascismo) al fenomeno dei ampi e delle sue orribili conseguenze se non arrivando alla scomparsa “della morale dentro di te e il cielo stellato sopra di te”.
Leaders of totalitarian states are not necessarily ideologically driven, but often want authoritarian power for its own sake and are using the people only as useful idiots in order to enhance what they think of as their ultimate good.It is vital that we study history.
Arendt's book would seem to still be the final word on the topic, 67 years after publication.
Hers is a vision of death which the masses approve and acquiesce in, even if it's their own.Her studies of antisemitism and imperialism in the first 2 parts of the book act as seed causes for her main topic, totalitarianism, and her warmup to it.
I finished the book realizing that to read it is to be frightened for all mankind, because if such political excesses were always possible and did happen, it's still possible today.
Arendt was a well-known intellectual and teacher of political philosophy, and wrote several key books and papers expressing her views and analysis of, among other things, Nazi Germany.
The book is divided into three main parts: Antisemitism, Imperialism, and Totalitarianism.
Her thesis, ultimately, is that the Nazi rise to power and its subsequent massacre of the Jews was the result of how Jews were perceived in Europe, beginning in the mid-1800s.
Although her main focus later in the book is the totalitarian regime that sprang up in Germany, she also covers the same types of regimes that led up to Stalin – although Stalin was not as selective as Hitler in his purges.
حقیقتا کتاب خسته کننده ای بود برام و نتونستم تمامش کنم. منکر ارزش تاریخی این کتاب نیستم اما کاملا وابسته به زمانی است که نوشته شده و اصلا مخاطب نمیتواند بدون درک فضای جنگ دوم جهانی و جنگ سرد، این کتاب را فهم کند
حقیقتا کتاب خسته کننده ای بود برام و نتونستم تمامش کنم. منکر ارزش تاریخی این کتاب نیستم اما کاملا وابسته به زمانی است که نوشته شده و اصلا مخاطب نمی‌تواند بدون درک فضای جنگ دوم جهانی و جنگ سرد، این کتاب را فهم کند
It's been at least two decades since I read Arendt's book (three separate volumes in my edition: Antisemitism, Imperialism, and Totalitarianism).
A remarkable work, the principal take-away of which, relying on my memory, is that it was the statelessness of Jews that made the Holocaust possible: once denied of citizenship or nationality, they had no one to protect them.
More pertinently, it has lessons and ramifications for today, when ethnic groups are being denied citizenship or national status, as in the case of Myanmar, with ethnic cleansing becoming an increasingly preferred option for reactionary governments, and of course, for Palestine too.
Her views on Anti-Semitism are mostly what my grandfather would have called "German Jewish thinking" and whenever she writes about America or Africa, it's frankly embarrassing.
But when she's talking about European pre-war politics, she's absolutely on point.
She has great insight into the basic human impulses at the heart of the great evils of the 20th century, insights which I found useful even when thinking about the Tea Party Movement.
The portions on statelessness, life in the camps and human loneliness are as about as moving as political thought gets.
A truly haunting work. I don't even know what to say to give it justice. You have to read it for yourself. And weep, because Arendt opens up the totalitarian box and out pours all the insanity and absurdity of man with all his inhuman potential.
نکته تعیین کننده این است که حکومت توتالیتر ، از حکومت های دیکتاتوری و بیدادگری تفاوت دارد توانایی بازشناخت این حکومت ها از یکدیگر ، به هیچ وجه قضیه دانشگاهی نیست که بتوان با خاطری آسوده به " نظریه پردازان " واگذارش کرد ، زیرا که چیرگی تام ، تنها صورتی از حکومت است که همزیستی با آن امکان ناپذیر است .
They always admitted them publicly, never apologized for 'excesses of the lower ranks'—such apologies were used only by Nazi sympathizers—and impressed the population as being very different from the 'idle talkers' of other parties.The similarities between this kind of terror and plain gangsterism are too obvious to be pointed out....on the contempt for facts, and the interest would-be totalitarians have in anomie and destruction:Mass leaders in power have one concern which overrules all utilitarian considerations: to make their predictions come true.
The Nazis did not hesitate to use, at the end of the war, the concentrated force of their still intact organization to bring about as complete a destruction of Germany as possible, in order to make true their prediction that the German people would be ruined in case of defeat.
This is so incredibly boring. Maybe anything with this many footnotes is supposed to be but I can't continue punishing myself with it. DNF at 40%. I did skim to the end and, spoiler alert, Hitler loses.
The result was the majority of their membership consisted people who never before had appeared on the political scene."p.317 "Hitler's early party, almost exclusively composed of misfits, failures, and adventurers, indeed represented the "armed bohemians" who were only the reverse side of bourgeois society and whom, consequently, the German bourgeoisie should have been able to use successfully for its own purposes."p.330 "No single element in this general intellectual climate in postwar Europe was very new, Bakunin had already confessed, "I do not want to be I, I want to be We," and Nechayev had preached the evangel of the "doomed man" with "no personal interests, no affairs, no sentiments, attachments, property, not even a name of his own." The antihumanist, antiliberal, antiindividualist, and anticultural instincts of the front generation, their brilliant and witty praise of violence, power, and cruelty, was preced by the awkward and pompous "scientific" proofs of the imperialist elite that a struggle of all against all is the law of the universe, that expansion is a psychological necessity before it is a political device, and that man has to behave by such universal laws.
Trump, Orban, Lars Lokke Rasmussen and the rest want to achieve the same thing, by excluding Muslims and refugees, and in theory, the UN, the EU, the European Court of Human Rights, representing a consensus of governments who insist on inalienable human rights, should stand in their way.
Another book I feel somewhat impotent to review, this time because it is almost too powerful and too real.
Her careful, detailed account of how two violently totalitarian regimes were able to come to power and flourish for a bit in the 20th century is valuable for those who do not want to be doomed to repeat history, and that, coupled with the quality of her research, analyses, and writing, gives this book an unshakable place on my "required reading for all" list.
I keep coming back to Arendt's descriptions of the mental states required for an acceptance of totalitarianism, at all levels of power.
This is essential reading for 2017, no question about it.
Arendt is sharp, well researched and cutting in her assessment of the links between Antisemitism, Imperialism and Totalitarianism.
This is not just an analyses of the Third Reich but also of the whole system of Russian Totalitarianism.
Again just impressive how industry is linked in authoritarian regime, how extermination or prison camps are justified.
In another section she mentions how Hitler's talent as a mass orator only made his opponents underestimate him, and how Stalin defeated a great orator to lead his party.
I found this at a used bookstore, knowing nothing about the book or the author, but willing to fork over $1.50 to learn more. It's been both a challenge and a delight to read, and in light of this election cycle, disturbingly apropos. Some reviewers recommend skipping the two sections on antisemitism and imperialism. Heed them not. Skipping the tough bits is for wimps, and you'll be thankful for the foundation when you get to those final chapters.
This book unequivocally helped me understand how things like genocide can and do happen. Timeless. One of the most important book of the last century.
