https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244909.The_Conscience_of_a_Conservative
In his (or in Buckley’s and Bozell’s) words: “With this view of the nature of man, it is understandable that the Conservative looks upon politics as the art of achieving the maximum amount of freedom for individuals that is consistent with the maintenance of social order.”Already I am a bit confused.
And indeed, the kind of ideologically motivated changes that Goldwater is advocating here would, I believe, be antithetical to Edmund Burke, who saw the governing as a practical affair, determined by specific circumstances rather than abstract considerations of “right” and “justice.”But perhaps this is just a matter of words; let us move on to Goldwater’s opinions.
His argument is completely specious, and what’s more, has been debunked in practiceIf Goldwater was original then, he certainly is not now, and his method of citing statistics clearly fraudulent—no teenager today would allow him to get away with his discussion on education: “we had an increase of 38% student body in various educational institutions, but an increase of revenues for school use increased 124%!” which tells us…precisely nothing.
Goldwater had a very restricted sense of federal rights and an expansive, and I would argue, unnatural and disturbing notion of states rights.”Despite the recent holding of the Supreme Court, I am firmly convinced—not only that integrated schools are not required—but that the Constitution does not permit any interference whatsoever by the federal government in the field of education.
This was an interesting book, a throwback to the earliest stirrings of movement conservatism.
His primary thesis is that the expansion of individual freedom is the primary and only legitimate goal of government.
This book also encapsulates exactly what I personally find distasteful about conservatism.
It sees the evils of the world as unfortunate things which government power cannot be used to ameliorate.
Conservatism comes off as a theoretical construct which seems to not take into effect how people actually are....how they actually act....the things they actually deal with everyday.
I first read this book when it was published in 1960.
At that time Goldwater was considered the far-right wing of the republican party.
Many of the methods Goldwater sited for reducing government were found over time not to work and many of his other ideas and beliefs were proven not workable.
Maybe it is time for the parties to re-evaluate themselves considering the extreme divide in the country today.
Maybe it is time to return to the middle.I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible.
Johnny Heller does an excellent job narrating the book.
As the political season is upon us, I recently decided to read Barry Goldwater’s “The Conscience of a Conservative.” I was a bit surprised at what I read.
Politics, for Goldwater, is “the art of achieving the maximum amount of freedom for individuals that is consistent with the maintenance of the social order” (pg 5).
Moreover, I agree with Goldwater that there are human needs for which the government cannot provide.
Unfortunately, since this book was about government, Goldwater had little to say about meeting those needs.
I rated this book as amazing not because of its content, but its ability to make me see how conservative thought makes sense to its practitioners. I've always had that, "how can they see it that way? They must be insane," kind of rationale, and this book succinctly sums up an alternative worldview, one I don't agree with, but better understand now. Every leftie/pinko/liberal bleeding heart should read this book.
This book really opened my eyes to true Conservative principles-- unlike those that are presented by the modern Republican Party. Many of the ideas expressed in this book are very relevant to the problems we deal with today. That is, except for the last (and largest) chapter that dealt with the Soviet threat. I really appreciated all Mr. Goldwater put forth in this book and it will definitely shape the political decisions I will make in the future.
In the afterward a view of Goldwater's life after this book gave some fascinating insights to how a true Constitutional conservative behaved in the 80s and 90s.In 1981, when Jerry Falwell said good Christian should be concerned about Sandra Day O'Connor nomination to the Supreme Court, Barry Goldwater countered, "Every good Christian should line up and kick Jerry Falwell's ass." In 1989 he said the Republican party had been taken over by "a bunch of kooks" and he(a very religious man) also said had no respect for the Religious Right.
In 1994 he led efforts to pass a federal bill banning job discrimination against homosexuals and declared himself an "honorary gay." I will admit to regarding libertarianism as the bastard child of the GOP, turns out, really?
I read this book when it was originally published in 1961, I think. I had the opportunity to work on the Goldwater campaign as a 16 year old volunteer specializing in passing out flyers, drinking beer and talking up Republican young ladies. Goldwater's ideas were characterized as radical at the time but he paved the way for Reagan's conservatism in 1980. He was a charismatic and inspirational speaker and leader and his ideas still resonate today.
A true conservative, not like the perfidious neocons of late: for a strong defense, constitutionally limited government (anti-New Deal!), pro-labor (but against forced union shops), and against the welfare state and redistribution. What a massive improvement a Goldwater presidency would have been; how much better our country had he won in 1964!
If we reduce taxes before firm, principled decisions are made about expenditures, we will court deficit spending and the inflationary effects that invariably follow."It is in the area of spending that the Republican Party's performance, in its seven years in power,* has been most disappointing."He was honest in that he didn't claim that tax cuts pay for themselves; he advocated fiscal discipline BEFORE giving big tax cuts, an idea that didn't carry over to later generations of politicians.
He also thought that sacrificing millions of lives was better than giving up "freedom." More likely his ideas would have turned the planet into a lifeless rock, as an all-out nuclear war would have done.
That makes one of the most frustrating things the afterword by Robert F Kennedy Jr on how the party has betrayed Goldwater by becoming what they are today.
Kennedy blames it on the recruitment of the religious right - which Goldwater did not approve of - but if you are basing your policies on ignorance and contempt for the common man so rich people can be richer, and order is more important than justice, especially in regards to civil rights, then that isn't so far from his ideal.
Everything pretty much boils down to "The Founding Fathers said it, so it must be right," which is as stupid as stupid gets.
Conveniently ignoring that fact that we live in more complex society with somewhat more advanced communication technology than the Pony Express, Goldwater essentially argues that the federal government really has no business doing much of anything and that we should let the states and individuals take care of health care, civil rights and every other topic under the sun.
I did agree with him on one subject (I don't believe that anyone should be forced to join a union), but thought the rest of his ideas were pretty silly and dangerously naive.
Clear, concise, and bold. I don't know much about the man, but his conservative principles are great and much needed again.I found myself agreeing with almost everything he said (almost). The book is dated (lots about the Cold War with the Soviet Union) but the principles are timeless.Goldwater deals with the difference between conservatism and socialism, communism, and Republican pragmatism. He speaks to education, military, labor unions, welfare, taxation, and the United Nations. This is the type of book I'd like my children to read once they are interested in politics.
Dated? Yes. Full of ideas that I think range from crazy to mind boiling? Yes.Important? Definitely.Even if you disagree with everything Goldwater stood for, it's still arguably one of the more important books about the United States and US Politics.
Disagree with 90% of it but this is a well written book detailing the conservative ideology which has become prominent in the US over the last 50 years. More readable than it has any right to be.
This is not the timeless outline of conservative political philosophy I expected, but still fairly interesting, especially having hindsight on certain topics, such as the Cold War. Barry Goldwater was certainly a trailblazer, and many of the ideas he covered in this book are now quite mainstream or considered libertarian.
Richard Posner (judge for the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals) is a much more formidable champion of right-libertarianism, but suffers the ignominy of not really being a "thought leader" on the political Right--probably because he does too much actual thinking in place of the obligatory Two Pages of Hate (or twenty, or two hundred).I've long had a prejudice that conservatives were more about ideological pageantry than intellectual rigor, let alone empirical verification, and sadly for my attempts at a dialogue with conservatism, this book and its reputation validate my biases rather than challenging me.
Bush ran for the Republican presidential nomination as a “compassionate conservative,” I knew, without ever having read Conscience of a Conservative, that he did not understand conservatism as “a comprehensive political philosophy” (to use Barry Goldwater’s words).
Under a Republican-controlled congress and the presumably “conservative” President Bush there occurred what George Will refers to in the introduction of this book as “the largest federal intervention in primary and secondary education in American history…the largest farm subsidies..the largest expansion of the welfare state…since Lyndon Johnson,” who, ironically, defeated Goldwater for the presidency in 1964.
Short and a basic understanding of conservatism but well written!
It is not hard to see the Tea Party in what he writes, but there are also some contradictions--namely in wanting to build up the military--that are problematic for Goldwater's preference for limited government.Goldwater is writing from the 1960 vantage point of the post-New Deal era where the federal government was increasingly becoming a larger portion of US GDP and intruding in more areas than previously known.
I decided to read, Conscience of a Conservative and find out for myself his stance on civil rights.While he did vote against the Civil Rights Act of 1964, he wasn't a racist nor was he against African-Americans having civil rights.
Yet, I found his view on this lacking in compassion.He argued in Chapter 4, that the Federal government shouldn't be involved in forcing states to abide by civil rights' laws.
It is amazing how this book was written 55 years ago, and yet most of it still applies today.Chapters:Chapter 1--The Conscience of a ConservativeChapter 2--The Perils of PowerChapter 3--State's RightsChapter 4--And Civil Rights I've already addressed this issue.Chapter 5--Freedom for the FarmerNot much has changed on this issue in the past 55 years.
I respect the work for its thorough and concise treatment of a variety of subjects central to contemporary conservative thought.
However, the work tends to share a common defect with many contemporary conservative essayists and commentators.
Maybe his contemporaries knew how to resolve these tensions in neat local solutions, but I think in our day that many of us either never knew those communities or have been so long in the brine of the pervasive contemporary progressive philosophy that we don't remember.
there's a lot to admire in here, not the least of which is goldwater's articulate and powerful defense of constitutional liberties and man's right to self-reliance and determination.
so too, there is hypocrisy when his belief in man's right to self determination clashes violently against his foreign policy, which indicates that he does not believe nations outside the US share that right.
the final chapter on what to do about communism is the longest, and the one that history has proven he was wrongest about.still, goldwater's conservativism is honest and respectable; his beliefs (outside of the violent ones) defensible and aimed toward acheiving goals that seem almost amicable with honest and respectable liberalism in that they seek to, i dunno, lift mankind out of darkness or some shit.
As concise and lucid a summation of the basic tenants of conservative thought as you are likely to find anywhere.
Much of this book is extremely prescient, and I was shocked by how well the book addresses so many of the hot-button social and economic issues Americans face today.
The only section that's dated is the stuff pertaining to the advent of the Cold War, but even that part is far from irrelevant, as it contains many parallels with today's battles against militant Islam.
THE CONSCIENCE OF A CONSERVATIVE is a smart book written in a humble, eloquent style.
Was given this gratis at a dinner at the Goldwater Institute with Mary Matalin, Art Laffer and Jonah Goldberg.
It had been 20+ years since I originally read it and it was along overdue revisit.After 12 years in San Francisco, I have found myself marginalized politically and reluctant to admit that I am a conservative.
I'm amazed at how applicable Goldwaters thoughts from 1960 are to todays political discourse and find myself reinvigorated for debate and once again proud to admit my political viewpoints and defense of individual liberty against collectivism.AuH20 said it best: "Keep government off our backs, out of our wallets and out of our bedrooms!"
What utter apostasy that John McCain now occupies the Senate seat that Barry Goldwater once held."The Conservative looks upon politics as the art of acheiving the maximum amount of freedom for individuals that is consistent with the maintenance of the social order ... The practice of freedom requires the establishment of order.... But ... the political power on which order is based is a self-aggrandizing force; that its appetite grows with eating. [The Conservative] knows that the utmost vigilance and care are required to keep political power within its proper bounds."John McCain has lost his way ...
When one is reading this, I think it is important to place it in context, not just historical, but biographical. Goldwater would change his views tremendously through the years, and become far more socially progressive, to the point that he would be stoned today by many of those folks calling themselves Republicans.
Feeling enlightened by my first ever reading of this book. There is plenty to disagree with like Goldwater's stance on civil rights but it's a thoughtful read for a conservative. Fav part for me was his narrative on labor, something that especially resonates w me. This is a real classic and I wish I had read it earlier.
Read and keep in mind your getting duped by a couple of smarmy Yale-boys with much bigger intentions than this thing lets on. Good for plebs.
