https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/727558.The_Lonely_Men
The story is good and I've always liked Tell Sackett.
The only trouble is, the first book featuring Tell ended with him together with Ange.
And that just sucks!And yeah, I like Dorset, the new honey for Tell, but she's awful thin on the pages in this one, floating in and out of the story just enough to hint at her inner awesome.
It's still a good adventure story and Tell is awesome.
This may sour me on L'Amour, altogether...****Edited Edit: I changed the ordering here on GoodReads to reflect the much better chronology given at http://www.louislamour.com/sackett/in....

My wife and I go to Chicago every year and somehow it became a tradition for me to read a L'Amour book on the train ride up there. It was a great trip and a great story.
Tell frees "too good a fightin' man to kill" p 115, "scar on his cheekbone" p 126 is "Kahtenny, one of the most dangerous and elusive Apaches ..
Worst enemy is lying Laura Pitts Sackett "strikingly pretty young woman, blond and fragile ..
Laura ensures troubles keep coming.
Haddens take Kahtenny's squaw to force Kahtenny to kill Tell.
(view spoiler)[Kahtenny "think somehow it is a trick" p 217, lets Tell rescue squaw.
Tell's bullet to Billy's head is ammunition for Laura to misinterpret alongside decades ago Higgins-Sackett hill feud.
Sheriff returns with Kahtenny's testimony, clears Tell of Billy's murder.
Laura ambushes Tell outside town.
Of all the Sacketts, Tell is my favorite. As with all of his books, Louis L'Amour grabs you from the first page, and you don't want to let go of the reading experience until you've finished the book.
Horse opera at its' bestTried and true formula book by a master of the genre, a true story teller. Never ready a really lousy book by Louis Lamour, just simple adventure tales full of larger than life heroes.
Each of us in his own way wars against change. Even those who fancy themselves the most progressive will fight against other kinds of progress, for each of us is convinced that our way is the best way.
I enjoyed reading this book. Another one about Tell Sackett; the poor guy never catches a break and trouble always finds him. Hopefully he'll get his happy ending soon.
The book starts out as Tell Sackett is pinned down by the Apaches in a land so bare that there isn’t anything around him except for barren desert.
He escapes and moves on to a little town called Tucson where his Sister in law, Laura Sackett tells him that his nephew has been kidnapped by the Apaches and asks him to go into the heart of Apache territory to find him.
The Lonely Men is a very good book.
The theme of this book is that through perseverance and hard work we can achieve what we set out to do.
Battles these men accompanied Tell thru Apache country to rescue his nephew who per his sister in law Laura Pritts Sackett was kidnapped to Mexico.
Especially if your families main concern is to keep food on the table and a roof over their families head, education wasn't the families first priority.Tell rescued four white kids from the Apache mountain retreat.
One of the kids was with the Apache for two years, he told Tell what he saw and there wasn't any young boy he was looking for in this village.
However, Orrin has had quite a bit of experience with woman and he isn't any better at seeing through their wiles.Tell is approached by Orrin's ex-wife Laura and she tells him that Orrin's son has been kidnapped by the Apaches.
It is a dangerous mission but Tell just can't leave the boy to fin for himself.The story is one running battle with the Apaches.
It doesn't help that Laura Pritts Sackett is coming up with more ways for Tell to die.
As with the other Tell Sackett stories I enjoyed this one.
He is just a man that has been raised with a different set of values.
This is another book in the Sackett series and features Tell Sackett.
Unlike today, news travels slowly and Tell doesn't know that the ex-wife of Orrin Sackett is "ex" and out to make sure Sacketts suffer.
So when she informs Tell there's a young Sackett who has been kidnapped by Apaches, he believes her and off he goes.
It is a fun book, full of adventure and wonderful descriptions of the land.
Tell is one of my favorite Sackett characters and his observations are always interesting.
The only problem is the book is short!
It tells the story, though.
A great read (or listen, in this case; the audiobook reader did a great job).
Tell Sackett was a major figure of my youth, from reading "The Sackett Brand", but as a boy I never read his other adventure.
L'Amour shows how the Sackett family character can be used against them.The sense of place is very good: I loved the descriptions of the places, the sounds, the smells, the heat.
I liked all the characters; even the villain is somewhat three-dimensional.
I liked the concreteness and earthiness; everything is very specific: particular towns, ranches, mines, mountains, all described precisely and economically.
Part of the Sackett series, this volume follows the adventures of Tel Sackett as he attempts to rescue a nephew from Apache country.
What most interested me in this work are the two half-baked theories L’Amour throws out to defend his pro-Cowboy stance.
Tel muses that Apaches drove a tribe out of their territory to occupy the land they currently hold, so it is the way of history for the white man to drive the Indians out.
One of Tell’s unflappable comrades posits the other theory, that the Indian’s undoing was their desire for the white man’s commerce, not, say, his genocidal tendencies.
I picked these up from a used bookstore along with a couple of other westerns.
This is not one of usual genres but I have a notion the western hero is part of a chain leading to the great hardboiled detectives.
This story is about Tell Sackett on a suicide fission to rescue a nephew he doesn't have from the Apaches in Mexico.
He survives and despite killing several Apache warriors he does not hate them.
He respects them as a people and as strong fighters.
Two great quotes from this book:"We were men with sorrows behind us, and battles too; men with regrets behind us of which we did not speak; nor too often think. With none to share our sorrows or regrets, we kept them to ourselves, and our faces were impassive. Men with no one to share their feelings learn to conceal those feelings. We often spoke lightly of things which we took very seriously indeed.""Most men are alone...We come into life alone, we face our worst troubles alone, and we are alone when we die."
L’amour is consistent, and consistently good. The Sackett novels follow a formula, more or less, but the formula works and L’Amour is the master at it. He does a great job of crafting masculine characters that are honorable, act with integrity and decency towards all. Tell has great respect for the Apache. Like most Sackett heroes, he treats women as equals. He faces danger, bravely of course, but also thoughtfully.
Louis L'Amour is one of my favorite authors, but there were times during the reading that I felt the story became a little tedious to read. I kept thinking let's get to where we're going. If seemed to me like he was working too hard to make everything in the story fit together—an unusual experience in a Louis L'Amour book. Still I enjoyed the book.
Love this series on the Sacketts; one of the families who moved from the east to the west in the 1800's. In this one, Tell Sackett has to deal not only with Apaches but also his ex sister-in-law who wants him dead. Great entertainment.
Another well-written novel where L'Amour is terribly mean to Tell Sackett.
I like the actions and plotline. I learn some of the history of the old west. I also learn about the thinking philosophy of the people back then.
My first by this author and in this genre. I chose something out of my comfort zone, and it was excellent! Looking forward to reading more.
Not the best.Not the best of the series, but still enjoyable. The sackett legend continues to grow albeit it's getting a little far fetched at times.
Really good story ..
So good, lots of action, so well written.
3.5 stars
Love Louis L'Amour books! In this one Tell Sackett gos to find a child who he was related to. Typical battles occurs.
A good read Following the titles to keep the history. Correct. Another good read in this genre. Well worth. The cost and can keep it.
It wasn't too bad. There were some parts that I thought made the main character look a bit too dense, but that is just me. It was still a good read.
This wasnt what I was expecting, but I did thoroughly enjoy it. I do love the simplicity of the writing.
This wasn´t what I was expecting, but I did thoroughly enjoy it. I do love the simplicity of the writing.
