https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460090.Odd_John_and_Sirius
The novel Sirius by Olaf Stapledon imagines what would happen if a scientist created a super-intelligent dog.
Thomas Trelone is the scientist who creates the super-intelligent dog, named Sirius.
Through a number of experiments Thomas has created better dogs who have an intermediate intelligence (they are above the dog's average intelligence, but they cannot master human language and complex analytic thinking as Sirius does).
The novel deals with a large number of human issues through Sirius and his experiences, his unusual nature, his ideas and his relationships with humans.Sirius is raised in North Wales, near Trawsfynydd.
A successful fictional critique of the following: human beings 1)in their response to developmental difference, 2) in their uses of industrialization, 3)their nationalistic tendencies, 4)tendencies toward anti-holism, i.e. extremism, and finally, and most importantly, a critique of human beings' attitudes generally toward the most gifted of their own kind.
Olaf Stapledon elegantly--if not stylistically so :)-- describes how human beings react when faced with complex necessity: spiritual/human annihilation and utter alienation.The book also functions as a device for explaining some more difficult idealistic philosophical-theological ideas and does so without revealing very much of their root sources, particularly if you're like this reader and have not read much philosophy.
Stapledon was right to communicate his philosophical inquiries through mass-market fiction.
Odd John brings up many issues worthy of discussion including how the human race treats its outliers and our morality with regards to other species. Also, were Odd John and the other supernormals truly morally superior?
Olaf Stapledon was a British philosopher; all of his books(at least all I’ve read) expounded upon human nature using the genre of science fiction as a vehicle.
In these particular books (this volume contains two separate stories), Stapledon looks at how outsiders see humanity and how humanity treats outsiders.
This time, Stapledon’s looks at humanity through the eyes of a super-canine named Sirius.
Again, in the end, humanity can not tolerate what is different and what it can’t understand.Both of these stories should not be read as science -fiction, but rather an exposition of humanity.
Two books in one, written just before and during WWII - some pretty early-day science fiction. Reads like a Sherlock Holmes story, complete with semi-anonymous gentleman narrator.Both stories deal with nature vs nurture (and racial superiority/inferiority) in ways that are cringeworthy at times but would probably make rich fodder for a term paper.
What Stapledon does especially well in this novel is establish Sirius’ longing to understand his purpose, which as with Odd John is—within the scope of normal human enterprise—outside human experience.
More poignancy and disgust erupts in the latter third of the novel when Sirius becomes the source of fearful curiosity and speculation that escalates into a malevolent fear of his difference.In a stolid, sometimes stilted workmanlike prose, Stapledon tells two fascinating stories that enable a reader to take stock of humankind, to question what it is to possess intelligence and still live so much guided by irrationality.
While each novel makes of mob mentality an especial nastiness, Stapledon does render some individuals with particularly sympathetic characteristics (Pax, Odd John’s mother; and Plaxy, Sirius’ human sister).
Part of the book deals with the relationship between Sirius and his human "sibling" Plaxy, who was born into the family around the same time as Sirius.
Another aspect of the book, for me the most enjoyable, is the description of how a dog with human intelligence would see the world.
I enjoyed reading about these things from a dog's perspective.Finally, the book deals with Sirius's uneasy relationship with humans.
Parts were a bit odd and off-putting, particularly Sirius's relationship with Plaxy in the last part of the book, but overall, very well done!
They go well together as a thematically-similar pair--Odd John being the story of the eponymous character, one of the first of a new breed of super-humans, who sets out to create an ideal society, and Sirius being similarly the story of the titular character, this time a genetically-engineered dog with human (indeed, above-average) human intelligence.
Both tales are told by a human friend of the characters (actually having the supernormal human or superintelligent dog tell his own story would tax even the most inventive and brilliant of writers to capture such unique perspectives), the effect of whihc is rather distancing.
3 stars."Sirius": While a far more focused and streamlined work than "Odd John," both novels share a similar style, structure, and plot points.
I was in love with this book for its first half, then Stapledon drifted into philisophical subjects and psychology that were explored without the immediacy and style that existed earlier in the book.
Sirius is raised in Wales, travels to London for a time, and returns to Wales for the finale of the book.
Sirius is an amazing character and this book is all sorts of ballsy in its subject matter.
It does what great sci-fi should do, make you ponder existence.
The second story, "sirius," runs in the same vein as "Odd John" except that it focuses on another kind of super being, a genetically modified dog with super human intelligence.
Equally as clever as "Odd John," "Sirius" follows its canine protagonist on a road of self discovery that is both amusing and tragic, as he constantly struggles to find out which world he belongs to (Human or Canine) and mostly finds that he falls just outside the borders of both.
Both works are brilliant but may turn many readers off due to the airy narrative and outdated style of writing, but anyone who can get past that (and the obnoxiously tiny print of Dover Trade Paper Backs) will definitely enjoy both stories thoroughly.
The two novellas, which I'd recommend to be read in order, are almost mirror reflections of the basic idea.To paraphrase Aristotle: "books should have a beginning, middle, and end." Hmmmm.
By page two or three of each novella, the reader knows the basic plot outline: beginning, middle, and end, and yet, even so early on compel the reader to continue perhaps due to the amazing character introductions and story outlines combined with his English language prowess.Use a dictionary if you have to!
Stapledon's prose is amazing, and perhaps a reminder how writing perhaps was far more sophisticated two or so generations ago?It is a landmark, and one of the very few books that has put me to tears.
If anything, this book serves as an example of how science fiction (or any sort of imaginative fiction) can take a look at humanity by stepping outside of humanity.
They are appropriately paired in one volume, in that each explores the outsider status, loneliness, detachment and all the emotions that surround these states.
I think this volume would have particular appeal for young, advanced readers (despite references to the very taboo sexual subjects of incest and bestiality), because they are at their heart about growing up, and the difficulties of the protagonists often parallel the difficulties of late childhood and adolescence.
And what I heard about "Last and First Men" and "Starmaker" sounds very interesting.
The first Stapledon book that fell in my hands was "Odd John" (1935) however.
It's no wonder "Odd John" fails to thrill me.
But I don't regret reading this at all, it remains an interesting and worthwhile little journey to the roots of SF and the motifs of mutants and superheroes.Immidiateley after that I started "Sirius" (1944), but put it away after a few dozen pages when I saw that this didn't grip me any more than "Odd John".
I'll try "Starmaker" or "Last and First Men" some time.
Odd John shows the difficulty in being different for a child and adult.
It also shows society's difficulty in accepting differences.Odd John is a man born of average people who has far superior physical and mental abilities.
He is joined by others who go on to create their own society.Sirius is another story of a superior creature, in this case a dog with human intelligence and above average perception of society.
Sirius is raised with a girl and is never He is never treated as side show spectacle but as a friend by the family.
Having had bad things to say about First and Last Men and Last Men in London, I must compliment Stapledon's Sirius. Differently ambitious, Sirius is about a dog more intelligent and sensitive than most humans and about his romantic relationship with a human woman. There are problems. You will sympathize with the dog and perhaps do some important thinking about the inner person as contrasted to outward appearances. Odd John was less impressive, but dealt with similar themes, here the contrast being between normal and extraordinary human beings.
This is more of a tale than i expected.
Your so involved in whats going on through out the book and it sort of feels at the end as if the author got a bit bored and wanted it finished as quick as possible.
You always know the way its going to end but it could have been a bit more exciting.
The tale itself is defiantly worth the read, its not every day you get to read about a dog with human intelligence and it really is written very well.
Just a shame about the ending
A very cool story about the next stage of human evolution, the birth of a "superman" and his dysfunctional relationship with us mere mortals. Despite being almost 60 years old, I can't believe how modern it reads, unlike the dated sci-fi/horror stories by HP Lovecraft (one of the most over-rated writers ever) and Arthur Conan Doyle, although I still love H.G. Wells and Edgar Rice Burroughs (John Carter Warlord of Mars and Tarzan of the Apes will be required reading for my children). Recommended.
A very cool story about the next stage of human evolution, the birth of a "superman" and his dysfunctional relationship with us mere mortals. Despite being almost 60 years old, I can't believe how modern it reads, unlike the dated sci-fi/horror stories by HP Lovecraft (one of the most over-rated writers ever) and Arthur Conan Doyle, although I still love H.G. Wells and Edgar Rice Burroughs (John Carter Warlord of Mars and Tarzan of the Apes will be required reading for my children). Recommended.
I read "Odd John," a Xmas present. An early sci-fi novel, rather short. About supra-normals. Well, the author has some interesting ideas. I hope he was making a bit of fun of the normal-human narrator, as, for example, when the narrator justifies the cold-blooded murder of normal humans who got in the way of the supra-normals' plans. I would say most people could take a pass on this one. "Sirius," about an intelligent dog, I am passing on for now.
Odd John is an amazinf story particularly because it was written in 1925. It's a direct grandfather of both the X-men and Orson Scott Card's Ender series, but I have never heard him mentioned before. I brilliant and short book with a distrubing ending. Sirius is less heavy-handed, but with the same theme of altering intelligence and didn't really grab me, though very well done.
I read this for the first time when I was a college freshman. The plot of Odd John is supposed to be about the next evolutionary advance of homosapiens. A good idea, but not wildly interesting as a novel. Sirius is about a dog with a man brain. Again, it was all right. I like the embodiment problems that Sirius brings up, but that is about all.
very interesting as an idea, but perhaps a bit too scholarly and old-fashioned to my taste, it didn't excite my imagination, but made me think about a number of things - one of those being the mild bitterness of the author (through John) about the hopelessness of the human race as species.
I'm partway through this and I'm kinda stalled. At first I was enjoying reading about how "different" and "uber-mensch" John is. Now I'm just bored with reading the same thing over and over and over. Not sure I'll ever finish this.
I'm not a big sci fi fan, actually not at all. But this book hooked me somewhat. I mean to make a story about a dog that is given human intelligence and his experiences in the world. And it works. It's engaging.
Can definitely see hints of First and Last Men and Star Maker. Not as good, though, and ended up skimming certain parts.The latter half of Odd John was better than the first half, and the beginning of Sirius was better than the end.
Not really science fiction, rather visionary social documentation...
It blew my mind... This is how it's going to happen.
I guess it was okay to publish racy books in England in the 40s so long as they involved dogs.
Interesting concepts. Slight depressing, but good all the same. Certainly not ate type of stories I'd pick up on my own
Excellent little know novel that deals with the human-animal bond
excellent
