https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68333.Beggars_in_Spain
One of the two characters who come as close to antagonists as this book has, Jennifer is an ultra-cool Sleepless who pursues rationality and pragmatism to the point of irrationality.
I don't really hold it against him, but he does highlight a vacancy in the roster: Leisha et al needed a true ally, a powerful Sleeper who nevertheless championed the cause of the Sleepless.I quite liked the Supers, and Miri, and their struggle as a faction within the Sanctuary faction.
Just thinking of all the times the characters referred to "beggars" or "beggars in Spain," as if Kress was not confident we would make the connection between the philosophy and the book's title, makes me wince.
The "high concept" idea is very simple, in the near genetic engineering create a new race of people who do not sleep.
While the basic idea is simple the numerous implications and ramifications of this development are far reaching and very complex.
In the context of this novel the "Sleepless" people even enjoy far longer lives, good looks and higher intelligence.
I don't know how scientifically viable this is but it is very interesting to imagine how different our lives would be without sleep.The main characters are well developed, both protagonists and antagonists, some are quite unpredictable which is always a virtue in a novel.
Ms. Kress really managed to flesh out the ideas better when she had a bit more elbow room.Now, I love to sleep.
I once had a coworker who just hated the idea of sleep—like Roger Camden, father of our main character Leisha in this novel, she thought sleep was a complete waste of time.
And much longer life was an accidental genetic change, much more likely to cause envy, in my opinion.One other assumption annoyed me—why would being extremely smart curtail a person’s compassion?
I was reminded of this novel because I read an article on a woman who can't forget anything. This book is about people who don't have to sleep. Fascinating.
The characters seem to exist just to move the plot along, ie "And then THIS happened and I'm going to tell you about it now!"I was also reminded of Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged, in which the flat characters exist only as mouthpieces for Rand's philosophy.As for the plot, it's interesting, but it clanks along kind of relentlessly.
I was really disappointed.Also very telling: Just prior to copying & pasting this review into goodreads from my Amazon review page, I said to my husband: "I read Beggars in Spain?
I have no memory of reading it, but apparently I reviewed it on Amazon.After he jogged my memory about the plot, I remembered the book, and remembered that I didn't like it.
This book is bursting with interesting ideas and themes that carry it through a good, but flawed presentation.
In particular, Jennifer Sharifi or any character whose views were opposed to Leisha Camden, were under-characterized.
We never saw the struggle the Jennifer Sharifi endured that caused her to come to her views (other than the murder of Tony).
We aren't told what she is thinking, we given enough information to understand her frame of reference.Two interesting observations about this novel: First is the characterization of the antagonist (what little there was).
I read the novella version of this last year, and the first novel of the Sleepless trilogy includes and expands on it (this was one of the books from my speed-dating project in April.) Those with a lot of money at their disposal have been able to genetically modify their children in utero, for looks, abilities, and one in particular - taking away the need for sleep.Imagine what you could accomplish if you never needed to sleep, and you suffered no medical issues due to its lack.
This is basically four time periods ending with SuperSleeper children living in an orbital, the Sanctuary set up by many of the Sleepless remaining.
4.5 stars. Excellent novel about the economic, social and political changes arising out of a group of people born without the need to sleep (and as a result blessed with other abilities that set them apart from the more populous "sleepers"). Nominee: Hugo Award best Novel (the novella upon which this is best actually won the Hugo)Nominee: Nebula Award best Novel (the novella upon which this is best actually won the Nebula)Nominee: Campbell Award for best NovelNominee: Prometheus Award best NovelNominee: Locus Award Best SF Novel.
However, the Sleepers and Sleepless have problems coexisting peacefully, both socially, economically, and philosophically.Although it has genetic manipulation and technological advancement at its heart, Beggars in Spain is not just a fun cyber- or bio-punk story.
The novel generally lacks a lot of characterization, however Leisha, Alice, and at the end, Miri, are the most fleshed out, dynamic characters and make the story sing.As enjoyable as I found the epic story, I would warn that if pushing a philosophical agenda turns you off, you might well hate this book.
Beggars in Spain by Nancy Kress uses speculative fiction to explore two fundamental questions – What happens if you genetically engineer a group of people so that they are radically different from the rest of the humans – in this case by eliminating the need to sleep in a group of children (potentially accompanied by other intelligence enhancing modifications)?
I don’t remember if I read the Hugo and Nebula winning novella that forms the first section of the book, but I did read Beggars in Spain in print when it was new.
Beggars in Spain belongs in the first category.
I love how the author reveals in the preface that her motivation for writing this story and its characters was her envy of those who need less sleep than she does.
I did fall in love with a few characters and a few really scared me, and I like that the book had me caring as much as I did.One of my favorite episodes appears on page 41: of course that’s how they’d rebel!
I've read some of Kress's short fiction, and one of her how-to books for writers, so it's interesting to watch her follow her own advice in a longer work.
I feel like some characters and events got short shrift, but the scenes that did happen "on screen" filled in the blanks adequately.
I think the beggars in Spain of the title were handled well in the first part of the book, the original novella, but that the phrase and the analogy became overused in the later sections.
There were a couple of other characters that seemed to be plot devices more than people.
AudiobookFirst off Cassandra Campbell did a great job with the narration of this very, very long book with a whole host of characters. Secondly, did I mention this was a very, very long book? At first I thought it was an omnibus because the chapters would end and then start with "Book 2", etc. But nope, this author turned a novella into a tome. I never really became invested with any of the characters, even Drew who I would usually be drawn to. Thank goodness this was an audiobook! 3-1/2 out of 5 stars.
I don't like feeling like I'm giving up.
But if a book just utterly fails at capturing my interest, well, then I'm sorry but I'm going to quit.
I see no reason for me to force myself to continue reading this book, not when I just don't like it at all.
It's not like this is a read-to-review; it's not like I have an obligation to finish it.
I picked up Beggars in Spain because I was a) intrigued by the premise, and b) my English teacher recommended it to me.
But although Beggars in Spain had a very interesting premise, the result was quite the opposite of interesting.
Beggars in Spain is exactly the kind of science fiction I love. It's about people and society and the impact of scientific breakthroughs. It explores the big questions of humanity, justice and prejudice. It did run a bit longer than it should have, but the ending was satisfying. The best thing about this novel is that it's a stand-alone. That's becoming so rare in SF&F that it's very refreshing.
Generally speaking, we want people's advantages to be compensated with disadvantages. But what if genetic engineering provided an advantage with no down side? Nancy Kress explores a society in which some people need no sleep (and suffer no side effects) and the "normal" people they live among. A fascinating social study.
This is actually the novel that expanded on the ideas of the novella.What this book seemed to suggest is that the author has a theme of genetic testing/research being a method for changing the fundamentals of human society.
Those themes were lightly present in the other trilogy I read as well.In this novel, it starts with following Leisha Camden whose father decides to genetic modify his daughter in vitro in order to make her have a longer lifespan, excellent health, and the ability to not need sleep.
I think readers interested in these ideas could just pick up the novella and have a potential better reading experience with none of the drawbacks of this novel.

And the latest--children who have no need of sleep.Having eight more hours to use, plus perfect mental and physical health, the Sleepless are at first just a media curiousity.
The Sleepless are subjected to violence and legal discrimination.There is a lot of social commentary in this book, and also some moral dilemnas.
Science fiction is called "A Literature of Ideas" and this novel is packed with them.
Lots of surprises--found much more than I expected.Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys a novel with interesting ideas; most SF fans will really like this book.
The premise of this sci-fi novel is that, in 2008, a scientific breakthrough allows for genetic engineering that creates people with no need to sleep.
Together with other genetic advantages available to the rich, soon this creates a small but growing group of privileged and brilliant young people - the Sleepless.
Tercera vez que me leo este fantástico libro. Parece que cada siete años le doy un repaso. Y me sigue gustando.Algunas críticas al libro que he leído están en contra del sistema económico-político que plantea la autora, pero esto es ciencia-ficción o ficción especulativa. De eso va, de suponer que pasa si... Los dilemas que se plantean por las desigualdades son interesantes. Y la "densa" forma de pensar de los supers ya merece una estrella por sí sola.Pues nada. Tocará volver a leerlo en 2021.
I also wanted to work out my reactions to other writers' philosophies: to Ayn Rand's belief that no human being owes anything to any other being except what is agreed to in a voluntary contract.
To Ursula Le Guin's belief, expressed in the wonderful novel The Dispossessed, that humankind could live without government if it lived without personal property.
Like many greater authors, I wrote to find out."Like her, I don't agree with either Rand's or Le Guin's beliefs as stated above (nor am I sure those summaries are entirely accurate, though I have read The Dispossessed and agree that it's wonderful).
But I suppose since (view spoiler)[ the Sleepless can never die of old age (hide spoiler)] then it's not as big a deal to skip around the years.The novel brings up a lot of issues such as jealousy and hate over something you don't quite understand in the beginning.
It was really interesting to see how the views of the general public changed over the years, from jealousy and hate crimes over Sleepless ability to it not really making a difference because they're off floating somewhere in the sky.
But shunning and hatred because other people are smarter or better isn't the way to go in my book.
The novel continues with the second part titled "Sanctuary" in 2051, the third part "Dreamer" in 2075 and the fourth part "Beggar" in 2091.The premise is easy: Pre-natal genetics modify humans to look beautiful, be smart and most important eliminate the need for sleep.
These "Sleepless" minority needs less place (no more beds!) and they are a third more productive time (no sleep, no tiredness!) and thus they are elite achievers.
The novella is worth 5 stars, the rest of the novel was not as excellent but I'll give it 4 stars.
(Implausibly, because there are already many people who need much less sleep than the rest of us slobs, just three or four hours a night, and they are not half-way between us eight-hourers and the Sleepless of this book.
The book uses this set-up to explore the limits of community, the individual and her relation to others, what the strong owe to the weak (the beggars in Spain, in one character's little speech), and so on.This is well-done because Kress throws into the mix the presence of a philosophy, Yagaiism, that seems like a spiritualized version of Randian libertarianism.
Yes, the characters are but pawns and plot points, most lacking real depth, but it's a multi-generational drama.
That and the preposterous notion that any group of highly intelligent people would be so easily cowed and controlled over generations by any fascist leader such as Jennifer Sharifi.
That's a generalization, but I think you get the point.At any rate, was a great ride and Kress really delivered on the challenge (for the most part) of writing people who were smarter than herself.
I only meant to start this book but I couldn't put it down and finished it in 2 days.
Maybe it's because I've got the time right now but this book truly sucked me into its story.Change.
The author does a wonderful job of showing how these characteristics of our society and of individuals changes with outlook, knowledge and over generations.
This separation, hate, mistrust shows itself in all aspects of society.
The potential for more growth (societal & individual) and more understanding between "different" peoples, who are really all the same under the skin, will keep me wondering how this story will continue.
While parts of this book delved into Ayn Rand type philosophical discussions, overall I enjoyed it. I wish the resolution at the end however was left more open to reader speculation/interpretation. Questions posed at the beginning of the book are explored through different character's points of view and filtered through their life experiences. I would have rather then come to my own answers at the end, instead of having a nice, well, here's the right interpretation spelled out.I would consider reading it again however and recommend it.
I'm kinda on the fence with Nancy Kress. While her writing is great, and the concepts are super interesting, the endings are lacking. I feel like, with this book, she ran out of steam and just kinda ended it. Very disappointing because the concept was spectacular.
I just finished this book, but there are so many high concepts taken on by this book I don't think I could give it a fitting review. Nancy Kress tackles what it means to be a human, genetic manipulation and at what point does the manipulation creates another species. Parts of this novel are a libertarian's wet dream, but there are some horrific results because of these beliefs. A very deep, and thought provoking book, but that was none the less entertaining.
