https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/540020.The_Day_of_the_Jackal
They formed a coalition called the OAS and recruited members willing to die trying to kill de Gaulle.
They know how to kill and have killed, but to assassinate a public figure like de Gaulle requires something more than just someone motivated to kill him.
He develops several contingencies for every step of the plan because rigidity is what gets men like him killed.
Even with all the men assigned to protect de Gaulle he was still vulnerable to The Jackal.There is a leak in the inner circle of those that are assigned to find The Jackal.

Forsyth’s “Jackal-like” control over the narrative was singular and I can certainly understand this being considered a classic among the spy-thriller genre.Despite the significant amount of superior that Forsyth brought to this story, my 3 star rating reflects my lack of engagement in the story resulting largely from what I found to be a lack of well-drawn characters and a dearth of emotion in the narrative.
Engaged by the OAS and given complete operational control over the assignment, the rest of this section of the book details….and I mean D.E.T.A.I.L.S.…the Englishbloke’s preparation for the assassination.
Still Amazing the Second Time Around - 5 Stars  In the past 16 years, with the exception of the Bible, I have never read a book twice. I enjoy the unknown and the mystery of the unravelling. When doing a Book Pal read, I decided to pick up a book that is in my Top 10 and to break my rule about never reading a book twice. What an excellent decision. Even the second time around, I was amazed by the excellent story and the author's ability to created suspense even when you know the eventual outco
Even the second time around, I was amazed by the excellent story and the author's ability to created suspense even when you know the eventual outcome.
The story is that of an assassination plot on French President/General Charles De Gaulle.
The result is an excited a detailed investigation/planning and one of the best international chases you will ever read.
Even when you think you know him, you quickly realize you don't.Beyond the Jackal himself, the story of the investigation is equally amazing.
Coupling this with the Jackal's story vaults this book into my top 10.Any fan of Thrillers need to read this excellent novel.
Just because this old thriller was related to a favored genre of mine - the historical fiction - didn't mean I would like outdated thrillers with no idea that hasn't been milked by movies of various characteristics.
But I learned one thing after reading this book, and that was that archaic books like this died intestate.
Also there was the fact that we know that The Jackal wasn't going to succeed.
But as the novel progressed, it was more difficult to care for the victims.
In the end, though, it wasn't enough to justify reading the book in the first place.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب از 21 فصل و 507 صفحه تشکیل شده است و از آن دسته از داستانهای هیجانی و جنایی میباشد و موضوع آن در رابطه با ترورِ <شارل دوگول> رئیس جمهور نامدار فرانسه میباشدداستان از سالِ 1962 و اعدامِ یکی از مخالفینی که قصد ترورِ رئیس جمهور فرانسه <شارل دوگول> را داشته است، آغاز میشودسپس نویسنده از چگونگی و دلایلِ یکی از ترورها پرده بر میدارد.. سرهنگ دوم نیرو هوایی <ژان ماری باستین تایری>، قصدِ ترورِ <ژنرال دوگول> را داشت و دلیلش این بود که وی با استردادِ الجزای
سرهنگ دوم نیرو هوایی <ژان ماری باستین تایری>، قصدِ ترورِ <ژنرال دوگول> را داشت و دلیلش این بود که وی با استردادِ الجزایر به ملی گرایانِ الجزایری، به فرانسه و مردمی که در سال 1958 دوباره او را به قدرت رسانده بودند، خیانت کرده است...
Re-reading The Day of the Jackal, Frederick Forsyth's 1972 Edgar winner for Best Novel, was perhaps even more satisfying than reading it for the first time (can it really have been 36 years ago?) I would never quibble with the committee's choice on this one.As most people probably know, the book deals with a plot to assassinate Charles de Gaulle, President of France, by a group opposed to his policies on Algeria.
The police (including a number of quasi-police agencies with few qualms about methods) are well aware of the plot to assassinate de Gaulle -- several unsuccessful attempts have been made -- and they quickly surmise that the plotters have a hired killer.
This book is one of the best books in its genre. Haven't found a book which can be at par with The Day of the Jackal.
As a boy I was drawn to dad's reading selections and one of my clearest memories are the hardback copies of Frederick Forsyth's first three novels on the shelves:  The Day of the Jackal, The Odessa File, The Dogs of War. Dad was a huge fan and even got mom to read the first two.
As I admired the high quality book I realized that I had never read Forsyth's debut novel.
A former journalist Forsyth brought his skills to a novel, but he treated it like it was a research piece for a monthly news journal or a series in the  London Times .
This swept through our lives like a simulacrum of the fire of London. Everyone was reading and loving this story that took just over a week to write.It was the first time there was a generic book buzz in my life and I became hooked on that buzz :Right.There:And:Then: Wasn't so long after that Forsyth did it all again to our utter, utter amazement. A moment in time and book-love was created.30.08.2015: Frederick Forsyth reveals MI6 spying past
Why is this book sold on a shelf that is presented infront of the entrance ?I took the book without knowing any history about it, never heard of the author & never thought I was entering a new world of thrillers!Since my native language is Arabic not english, I had difficulties understanding the first chapetr, especially with the small letters used in the edition I baught.
one chapter was not enough to judge a book isnt it ?!Once i got into the thrilling part of the novel, i just couldnt stop reading.
I'm not too versed with spy/espionage novels but I expected something more interesting.
I reread it 3 times before giving up and hoping that I'd catch on eventually.
(I did catch on, I think...there still may be one or two things that just never caught).This was entirely too much page space given to one day.
As is, I had to slog through so much background and jargon and irrelevant bits that when I finally got to something interesting, I was ecstatic.Hopefully other espionage novels aren't like this one, otherwise I'm out of a generaAudiobook CommentsSimon Prebble read this one and...honestly, it sounded super boring.
From these historical events and the backdrop of a nation which was trembling at the fear of a civil war, Forsyth weaves together a high-voltage political thriller with sheer brilliance and a vivid imagination.Using these real facts from history Forsyth creates a fictional assassination plot against Charles de Gaulle, where the OAS frustrated with their repeated attempts of failure, hires a British contract killer - only known as 'The Jackal' - to kill De Gaulle.
From this point Forsyth builds the suspense and excitement to such a high level of enjoyment by taking the reader through small thrilling ventures where the assassin scrupulously plans each step of his mission finally leading to an explosive climax.
Any details I give about this book will quaff the fun out of this engaging read, so I would stick to the literary basics.
The author does very well in setting up the context in the first half and drives the reader to fast-paced action that follows.
The Day of the Jackal is a captivating battle between two meticulous professionals, two experts of their trades on either side of the law.
And finally, beneath all its action, drama and chases, it actually boils down to which of them is more disciplined about his work.
A must read thriller.
Everything from the descriptions of the characters, the offices they work in, and the half page of backstory that everyone gets are spot on and believable.
Each story is told in such a way as to build the plot and theme.
The way Forsyth uses time is fun as well.
Forsyth's use of language and description is smart as well.
I guess I'm most happy with the fact that in spite of the modern tendency for thrillers to scrape along the bottom of half-planned plots, cliched characters, and dull description, there are some writers who still take their craft seriously.
It opens with an actual historic event, an attempted assassination on French President Charles de Gaulle.
Very much a cat and mouse chase by the last third.So the plot is great and really lent itself to a movie.
The problem is Forsyth doesn't do a great job of populating the plot with compelling characters or writing in a way very engaging way.
Compound this and my foreknowledge of all the twists that were to come thanks to the super loyal first movie and this read felt like a slog at times.
Executive Summary: Slow at times, but with a great finish. I liked but didn't love this one.Audiobook: Simon Prebble is a great narrator. I liked him more in the last book I read by him, but he speaks clearly with good inflection and adds some voices into the mix. He was a good fit for this book making the audio a good option for this book. Full Review Apparently the real life "Carlos the Jackal" was given his nickname because this book was spotted on him. I'm not sure if that's true, but I had
I'm not sure if that's true, but I had thought this was somehow related to him.Instead it's a historical fiction/thriller about a real life group of French dissidents from the 1960s who hire a (fictitious) mercenary assassin to assassinate then French president Charles de Gaulle.The book starts with a bit of a history lesson that I found a bit dry.
It then goes into a lot of background about the dissident group (called the O.A.S) and France in the 1960s.
I probably wouldn't have appreciated the politics without all the background, but I still found it on the slow side.In general, I found some parts of the book far too detailed for my liking.
A terrific read, fast paced, tautly written and excellent characterisation. Remember reading this many years ago but thoroughly enjoyed it the second time around. Liked the premise of the story, the lone assassin taking on the might of the French Police, a real game of cat and mouse. Thought the differences between the two main characters, the unknown assassin and the French Detective Claude Label well nuanced.......most of all I appreciated the "twist" at the end. Time and money well spent.
I didn't realize how hooked I was on this book until I was actually dismayed at the thought of the Jackal being caught by the detective.The story is about a fictional assassination attempt on Charles de Gaulle. The OAS has a grudge against de Gaulle and after several failed assassination attempts they realize that they have a leak and they decide to hire a professional assassin. It's very suspenseful and, more importantly, the whole thing was very realistic and highly plausible. I completely loved it.
While the descriptions of the police work are now dated, this is still a great thriller.
For this alone this is a fascinating book.But there is more, the description of the police work trying to collaborate with international agencies was fascinating - no internet, no cell phones, no fax.
Because unlike Fleming (sorry but I keep thinking about Bond, who also is a hired assassin when it comes down to it), Forsyth has no qualms about reminding us that the Jackal is a ruthless killer.So, even tho the details of the story are dated, this is still a chilling thrill of a read.
I picked this book with great expectations and Frederick Forsyth lived up to my expectation.
Apart from content, they way the plan was knitted to kill president, how meticulously Jackal planned everything to complete his mission.
His expertise on guns, disguising the identity, choosing the liberation day to kill the president, Role of Claude Lebel, how to track Jackal when there was not even enough technology compared to the present, i m awestruck, not only the content, this book is written with such brevity, u won't even feel like anything has been added to increase the length of the book.
My impression is that the book started off slow giving you so much detail about Algeria, OAS, and other secret services.
This book is a true story; therefore, to me it starts to get good when the Jackal enters the novel.
This is what the Jackal was able to accomplish with his mission of assassinating the French President, for money only, in 1963.
Within thirty minutes it had become Friday, August 16.As the two men looked towards each other unknowingly above the waters of the Seine, the varied chimes of the churches of Paris ushered in August 22.As he turned the key in the lock and caught the first shrill rebuke of his wife, the clock chimed midnight and it was August 23........, a solitary little figure, to return to his wife and children.
A tight and fantastic political/cat-and-mouse thriller.
Edgar award winner 'The Day of the Jackal' is well-paced, originally plotted and filled with amazing research.
Forsyth clearly belongs among the top ranks of the great thriller writers.
He is often immitated (Clancy, Thor, McBain) but NEVER really replicated.
Beyond the merits of the novel itself, the Day of the Jackal has also influenced actual assassins (Yigal Amir and Vladimir Arutinian), inspired the nickname for Ilich Ramírez Sánchez (aka Carlos the 'Jackal') and provided both an inspiration to and techniques for several genearations of identiy thieves.
That is a helluva lot for just one novel's resume.
7.5/10An enjoyable thriller that takes you back in time to a land where detectives had to root out evil doers with old fashioned police work and when the bad guys could get a passport the next day by using a technique known to me from The Simpsons episode where Sideshow Bob became mayor.
I did find myself thinking about it at times which is a good sign but there were a couple of times on my way to work when I opted for music which is a bad sign.
This was the quintessential thriller during my teens, where we keep on rooting for the villain while praying at the same time that he doesn't succeed. "The Jackal" has become an iconic figure.
I did an event with Freddy years ago in Australia and I was so nervous to meet him but he was such a charming gentleman--and very kind to me. Class act. Terrific writer.
'The Jackal' had Charles De Gaulle in his sight on Rue de Rennes. “Half a million dollars is the price,” says the blonde Englishman being hired to assassinate French President Charles De Gaulle. “Considering you expect to get France itself, you esteem your country very cheap,” he adds noting the shock at his fee. With the contract made, the story commences of how the Organisation Armée Secrète (OAS) hire ‘Charles Calcot’ - the first three letters of each name making CHA-CAL (jackal in French) -
With the contract made, the story commences of how the Organisation Armée Secrète (OAS) hire ‘Charles Calcot’ - the first three letters of each name making CHA-CAL (jackal in French) - to remedy their sense of betrayal at the granting of Algerian independence.
The idea for the story came apparently to Frederick Forsyth whilst he was working as a Reuters correspondent in Paris in the early 60’s: the time in which the book’s events are set.
It reads like a reconstruction of historical fact, and, that said, could have used a little more fiction-writing technique in places to add vividness.
This is one of the great classics in the suspense novel genre, and with good reason.
I was stunned by it.
This book made me want to go to the library right away and check out every Forsyth novel they had.You know at the beginning that the assassination plot failed -- it says so -- but that doesn't stop you from clinging to the edge of your seat as your follow The Jackal and those who are chasing him.
I was rooting for him as well as for Lebel, the policeman chasing him.
The beginning of a genre. Still powerful today. An excellent example of how to create tension when you know the outcome (DeGaulle was not assassinated!)
One of the greatest spy/thrillers of all time; move is too.
