https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29083.Snow
Do you like to build a snowman?
So we will put this snow away and play with it another day." This quote is at the every end of the book when the snow is all melting and they are trying to salvage it by putting it in the freezer.
He was a great addition to the story and makes it more entertaining to read.While there wasn't really a theme to this book I noticed that it may have been written towards helping children, so you might be able to call that the theme.
In this fun children’s book a little boy wakes up on day and comes across snow all outside his house.
Overjoyed, the little boy puts on his snow gear, and takes his dog outside to go and play in the snow.
I really enjoyed this book because of how it is simply written yet children can relate to the excitement of snow in winter and can easily make connections throughout the story.
Most kids can relate to the boy and how exciting it is to play in the snow when it is the first snowfall of the year.
I really enjoyed the rhymes that the two little kids within this book told to one another as they played with the snow, as well as the endless ideas that the book offers for what to do with snow.
I really liked the dot-eyed illustrations of the kids, as this kind of style for drawing children appears to be very innocent in my opinion.
I also liked the wittiness of the words that rhymed that went along perfectly with every different action that the kids can be seen taking on with snow in every scene.
I would use this book with early-aged elementary school kids to get them interested in both reading and poetry.
Snow is a cute little rhyming book, perfect for the early reader that captures the wonder and fun of snow. We will call Our snow man Ned.But first He has to have a head. . . .The sun! That sun!It came out fast.Do you think NedIs going to last?Keep that sunAway from Ned!That sun is going To his head. . . . How can you not just love that?
A fun rhyming easy reader that I would like better in December, instead of April.
A cute book about having fun in the snow.
Genre: FictionGrade: K-2An amazing ode to the thing we see so often during the Michigan winters.
I thought that this was a good book for beginner readers. my daughter enjoyed reading this book. I would recommend this book to others.
很有韵律感
At the 2nd page the snow starts to Fall and they go in the snow to play!
Mom read me this book that we borrowed from the library.
Students loved it. They were entertained and laughing along. :)
This was the main book my mother used to teach my sister and I to read. :)
A book about having fun in the snow, with great repetition and easy to read!
Fun early reader story with colorful artwork.
Originally published on my blog,  Nine Pages .This was a very simple story and it employed a lot of repetition—almost a Dick and Jane amount of repetition. Dr. Seuss recruited P. D. Eastman to children’s literature and the rhythm of this book bears a strong resemblance to Seuss’ works. At times the rhyme seemed forced—by which I mean, that in order to rhyme, the sentence was made awkward or bordered on senseless. Some of this manifested in what seemed at the time an odd refusal to name certain c
In the absence of a ski lift, I suppose one walks to the top of a hill in skis even if it’s not cross-country skiing?) becomes “we put on long, long feet”; the word “skis” is never used but there are several mentions of skis as “feet.” “Snow man” is used once, but mostly the snowman is referred to only as a man, once as a man of snow, and the exclusion of “snow” as a modifier seems odd.
Overall, it’s a book about playing in the snow told with a very young child’s vocabulary.
As a book about playing in the snow, it’s cute.
Written in a simple rhyme, two children and their dog play in the snow - sledding, throwing snowballs, making a snow house and having a snowy picnic in it, and finally building a great big snowman.
But when the snow melts, the kids and their dog aren't ready to say good-bye to it.
(This book inspired me to make a mini snowman who lived in our freezer for a few years, until my mom forgot abut him spring cleaning one year.) If this books rhyme reminds you of Dr. Seuss, it may be because he did have a hand in the editing of Snow.
Bilingual benefit: “Snow” is part of the Dr. Seuss Beginner Books series intended for new readers.
As a new reader book, the simple language rhymes well and has a sing-song rhythm.
Where else can a Tel Aviv child see a snowman?Availability in Israel: While this book is not available in Israel, it can be ordered online via Amazon USA.
In addition to being available as a stand-alone book, it can also be purchased as part of the Dr. Seuss Beginner Book compilation, "The Big Purple Book of Beginner Books."Previewing the book: This book is available for preview on Amazon USA.
I bet they learned their lesson from that other snow book about that boy Peter ["Tne Snowy Day"].
Because first of all, they did NOT put their snowballs in their pockets so they melted, but they put it in the FREEZER so they can have snow in the summer!!This one has lots of stuff in it that the other snow books don't.
In that one book the girl made a snowball and then wasted it when she just tossed it up in the air!!!
But in this one the girls smack each other right in the face with snow!!
This brilliant classic is perfect for a wintry day and emerging readers discovering vocabulary concerning the winter season. P.D. Eastman's illustrations are stellar, creating a magical world in simple strokes that recall the feeling of tasting snowflakes on one's tongue and racing down hills on sleds. Two children discover the joys of snow with their dog, performing such activities as building a snowman, skiing, sledding, having a snowball fight and building an igloo. McKie creates parallel structure when introducing new vocabulary and larger font, spacing and design layout make this ideal for a beginning reader. Highly recommended.
a great picture book with many of the same traits we have all come to know and love from Dr. Sues. While it is not written by Dr. Sues, it fits right into his collection. This is a book that is perfect for winter and reading all about they fun times to be had. A great read aloud and a great book for young readers trying to learn sight words and sounding words out, even a great book to just enjoy the pictures.
i like this book because it is about snow. i like snow too. it was about a girl and a boy they did not know what snow was. they had a snowball fight. they made an angel in the snow. they made a house of snow and had a picnic in the snow. this book was fun to read because i like playing the snow too. when it snow my dad and my sister and i go sledding and have snowball fights.
I always loved this book growing up. I still have my copy that my mom saved for me. Growing up in Hawaii I never experienced snow 1st hand so this book was always fun to read and imagine what "real" snow was like. Since we had a big "snow storm" in Vegas yesterday, we had to get this book out again and read it. Hannah loves this book too.
This book was about snow, and I liked this book because there's snow. And there was two little boys. And first one puppy was out there and then one of the boys went out there, and then the other boy called to the other boy inside the house and then he put his snow suit on and he went outside. And in this book the dog slides on his tail. -by Alexander
This book was wonderful for my first grader to read with little help from me. She loved the fact that it was such a "long" book and made her feel like a big kid. There is just enough repetition throughout to make it manageable for her level but not too easy. The story itself is fun and exciting and my little one was laughing out loud to herself at the antics of the dog!
The eye-popping illustrations alone are so nostalgic to me. The story, well, it makes me sigh happily. Growing up in California only 30 minutes from the coast meant winters without snow; but through this delightful little book, I could imagine myself there, sledding and tasting the frothy flakes. A true classic!Reading Level: 1st - 2nd grades#winterbooks
A great one for the winter season! We can't assume that our students will know all about snow or that they have even seen snow so this would be a perfect book for them to learn about snow and how many different ways snow is used for fun. Being born in Switzerland, there is nothing more that I love than snow!!
Sean's Xmas book this year, but Aidan is the one reading it...actually reading it! So exciting. A few stumbles but the illustrations are so fun, and the topic one of his favorites (a big snow-fan like his dad), that he keeps going. Love this one too!
This was my favorite book when I was tiny! I would return one copy to the library and go get another copy from the shelf. I somehow ended up owning three copies (I have since weeded it down to just one).
