https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/927979.Small_Favor
I was welling up when Harry starts shouting at God in the church.FormatBook format: Audiobook narrated by James MarstersLength: 13hrs 46minsDifficulty: EasyPOV characters: One – Harry DresdenPerson: FirstChronology: LinearButcher’s writing makes the book easy to digest and the fact that it’s told through Harry’s point of view makes it really easy to follow.
It’s simply the coolest, most fun, kick ass, character driven series there is.
Butcher does a great job of explaining and recapping things so you don’t really need to read it in order, but I’d recommend you pick it up from the start.
As I began reading the 10th Harry Dresden novel, I started ticking off little mental bullet points:Sarcastic dialogue.
With all the, dare I say it, recycling of characters and plot points, Small Favor feels like "been there, done that.
It feels like Butcher is coasting a little bit.Don't get me wrong, Small Favor is still enjoyable.
If you like the Dresden series, it should satisfy that Harry Dresden itch.
But I wish Butcher would mix it up a little bit more.
I just wish he'd jump further away from his safe plot lines and venture into new territory.I'll still read the next Dresden novel.
In this episode Mab, Queen of the Winter Court calls in a favour Harry owes her and asks him to rescue crime boss Marcone, who has been kidnapped by a bunch of fallen angels (called the Denarians).
At the same time Titania, Queen of the Summer Court is trying to stop Harry from rescuing Marcone and sends some fae creatures to hunt him down, including the brothers Gruff (you can imagine what they look like - each brother bigger than the one before).
I have a feeling this episode is setting the scene for more serious business to come, particularly if the Red and White Vampire Courts restart hostilities.
Another solid story with a stellar narration, even if I think James Marsters is sort of backtracking and doing fewer distinct voices. I'm crazy addicted to this story, and I simply don't think it is possible for me to not enjoy one of these books. This plot was, again, sort of all of the place and complicated, but Jim Butcher makes it work. I can't give less than 4 stars. On to the next!
[4.5 Stars]
I get that he's writing each installment to be its own separate story, which works for the most part, but it gets tiring and I'm glad that seems to be going away or severely reduced.Having said that, I don't think much more needs to be said.
Butcher is really going deep in his world-building, adding more to each installment, while bringing up past characters/races.
Again, I realize I'm drinking the kool-aid at 10 books under my belt.Speaking of which, the Harry Dresden/James Marsters narration combo is just about the best thing known to fiction.
When Mab, the Winter Queen, comes to cash in on one of the favors Harry owes her, things go from bad to worse.
pg 79, ebook.There's also a major villain from Harry's past, but I won't go into details and spoil it for you.At one time in my life, a shapeshifted, demonically possessed maniac crashing through a window and trying to rip my face off would have come as an enormous and nasty surprise.
pg 143, ebook.I have read a few reviews in which some readers believe The Dresden Files is ridiculous because Jim Butcher puts Harry into situations that he couldn't possibly survive.
Going up against forces way over his head is pretty much a theme for Harry's life, and while we can be reasonably certain that he will prevail (after all, there are about ten more books to go, and they'd be hard to write without him), we don't know how much damage he will take in the doing so.
Weird.Back on topic - what Butcher has done, and what makes me enjoy this series so much, is take the genre and populate it with really interesting people.
Murphy is Harry's best friend, the one character who's stood by him since the first book, and has grown to be his closest ally.
Dresden always makes me feel good!
Giving a book 5 stars doesn't mean it's perfect.
First, for how long do I wait before ceding to impulse and rate a book 5 stars.
Secondly, what do I do if, a week after giving Small Favor 5 stars, I chance on a book 10 times better?
Small Favor began slowly, embracing its pulpish roots and fleshing out its friendly universe where beings thrive even in places called Nevernever.
I thought the musings of the Dresden Files, which earned my respect and interest by hitting on core metaphysical ideas, has been impotently pruned, in Small Favor, down to self help level.
"i'll go" I said.Charities face snapped up and she said, her voice suddenly very clear and distinct, "No."Molly blinked at her mother. Charity stood up, her face blotched with tears, creased with strain, her eyes sunken with fatigue and worry. She stared at me for a long moment and then said, "Families stay, Harry."
For those of you who have read none of the Harry Dresden series, be aware that Harry is all that is keeping those other worlds of magic and demons from destroying the life that you hold dear.
He uses his skills (in white magic) as part of his investigations and his investigations usually come to involve the “supernatural.” More than some of the books in this series, Small Favor drags in elements of the White Court, the Red Court, the Black Court, the Summer Court and the Winter Court.
Sometimes it is handy as there have been 10 books and I’m not reading back to back so I do forget certain plot points so I can let the re-caps slide.I won’t reveal anything related to the plot as there would be some spoilers to things earlier in the series but there are some really good action scenes in this one with at least 3 specifically that spring to mind which had me figuratively on the edge of my seat.
this book was absolute madness from start to the very end.Action start right from page one when Harry was attacked in the backyard of Carpenters while he was playing with Carpenter family.
After that Harry got called by Murphy on a crime scene where Johnny Marcone was kidnapped with use of some heavy duty magic.
If that is not enough Winter Queen Mab wants Harry to rescue Marcone & you never say no to Mab especially when you owe her.But thats only the start of this amazing story.
But with great power comes great darkness and Harry doesn’t want to give in.
This true friendship is one of the biggest strength of these books.
So i will today!I'm weird about audiobooks.
This was my first Dresden Files audiobook and man am I glad I chose this one.
It's got all my favorite characters and my favorite villain(s).
Each book seems to focus a little more on one side character than the others, without it being obvious, and i feel like it was Michael in this one.
That may also be because Michael Carpenter is the man I wish I could be, i dont know.
Which is something I loved, despite the ending tearThe quality of this audiobook is bar none.
About 1/4 into Small Favor I found myself wondering if Harry Dresden was about to magically jump a shark.
The central morals of Harry, Sergeant Murphy, Michael, Sanyo (another Knight of the Cross), and even the mercenaries Kincaid and Gard are roughly similar, but each draws different lines around what is required and what is allowed to be good.
Just like the good old days.In a lot of ways, this is what Storm Front would have been if Butcher had been a better writer at the time.
OH shizzle! This book was intense. Excellent though, and I loved the humor. I actually really enjoy the faith aspects of these books too, which isn't something that you'll see me say very often. I just really appreciate how Butcher manages issues of Good and Evil and God, god(s) and religion, or not so much religion but faith. I love Harry and I love these books. That's all that really needs to be said.
Small Favor is the 10th book in The Dresden Files series by Jim Butcher.
Another great urban fantasy action-packed book in this series!My husband has read all the books, including Brief Cases that just released this summer, and I want to catch up before the new book comes out.
There is no publication date for Peace Talks yet, so I have time....but I want to have plenty of discussion time with hubby before the new book.
I definitely recommend this series for anyone who enjoys urban fantasy.
The series has 15 books so far....with #16 Peace Talks coming soon.
The war with the Red Court might have cooled down temporarily but Harry has peeved off quite a few nasties so far in the series and a lot of them come back round to bite him in the ass.
Which means they can kill trolls, which means when they come gunning for Harry it's time to scramble.Some favourite characters that feature include Kincaid, Michael, Sanya (I just dig Marsters Russian mafia accent), Murphy of course, Luccio and more.
And he'll need them because when Mab comes to collect on one of the favors Harry owes her she doesn't take no for an answer.
But this book, and another one to come, confirmed what I began to suspect a book or two ago, which is that Jim Butcher has developed a poker tell.I don't want to say much or I'll spoil the suspense for you the way Butcher has started to for me.
If you haven't read the series but think you might, DON'T read the spoiler, because it turns out that word is entirely accurate.(view spoiler)[Harry Dresden didn't react at all to the fact that he'd witnessed his dog being murdered a book or two ago, and that's how I knew his dog was somehow actually okay.
Jim Butcher's Dresden Files takes a bit of a break from the supernatural conflict that has been the focus of the last several novels with great success.
And they have all kind of lethal and nasty things that are out for Harry's blood--literally.As always, Jim Butcher delivers the goods with the latest Harry Dresden novel.
But where the last few books have all been what I'd call "arc heavy" this one takes a few moments to slow down a bit and focus on the characters.
Events move forward in the lives of several characters, especially Harry Dresden and Karin Murphy.
This series has definitely become one of my favorite SFF reads.If Dead Beat turned out to be the point where the Dresden Files shifted into high gear, for its part Proven Guilty did build on the storylines introduced in basically every other volume and pushed the envelope even further.
Time will tell if I have enough self-control not to scrap my reading schedule for the rest of the year and just continue reading the next few volumes of the Dresden Files.Jim Butcher is awesome and he keeps getting better!
The very first thing I have to say about this book is: How in the world do people live in places where it snows? I mean, the descriptions in this book of living in a place with snow during the winter sounds soooooo miserable! I can't even imagine having to dig my car out of ice, or shovel my walkway in order to leave my house each day. You people must be insane or something! this would be me at the airport upon landing in the place where there is snowHarry needs to move to the South. His long co
The very first thing I have to say about this book is: How in the world do people live in places where it snows?
I mean, the descriptions in this book of living in a place with snow during the winter sounds soooooo miserable!
They pretty much give you a gun in your welcome basket upon moving to Texas.
So, things get complicated, Harry makes a bunch of smartass remarks, Thomas looks beautiful, Murphy is a badass, Molly sneaks in, Bob says something smarmy, and lots of people get hurt........the end....What I am really hoping for is for Butcher to break the meta at this point.
Executive Summary: Another great entry in the series. Instead of running on too long and rehashing old ideas, Mr. Butcher keeps ratcheting things up and making you want more.Audio book: James Marsters? Check. Awesome reading? Check. He has me dreading Ghost Story, because I know he won't be reading it. I really can't imagine anyone else doing this series justice. Full Review This one is even better than I remember, but still not quite as enjoyable for me as White Night is. I'm not really sure wh
It's got a return of some of the series best villains too.Not to mention the general premise: Mab shows up to collect on a favor (hence the title).
Or maybe she has to twist his arm a little..I had forgotten about some of the more important details of this book.
This isn't Malazan or anything, but I was surprised to see some of the setup and foreshadowing taking place here that I missed the first go round.This book also put an idea into my head that Mr. Butcher has been taunting us all with ever since.
(view spoiler)[Murphy taking up Fidelacchius.
“Likest thou jelly within thy doughnut?""Nay, but prithee, with sprinkles 'pon it instead, I said solemnly, and frosting of white.” This installment had a lot of action and involved so many favorite characters. I'm impressed how the story keeps progressing instead of just rehashing old plot-lines. 4.5 stars.
Harry owes Mab a favour, so he is forced to work for her this first time. Involves old and new characters. Wasnt as good as some of the more recent stories. Still had some funny moments though. Ending was pretty emotional for some characters.
My reviews focus on setting readers' expectations, rather than summarising plots.The most important aspect a new reader needs to know is that the series has an over-arching story arc, with roots starting at book 3 (Grave Peril) but only becoming visible as more and more of the series unfolds.
The long-running support cast are especially complex, and one can see them maturing between books.What to be aware ofThis is part of a series, and you really need to read them in order.
It's a great example of a fast-paced, urban-fantasy thriller.
I feel like I need to apologize for giving this only 4 stars. I liked this one a lot, but I just finished another book in this same series and I absolutely loved that one.....so by comparison, this one gets 4 stars. This one dealt a lot with the politics in the wizard-ing world, I think that is why I deducted a star.This series is one of my all time favorites. I'll try and reign in my gushing.
I really liked this audio book - there were a lot of characters, and the narrator did a great job with all the voices. There was also a lot happening, keeping me on the edge of my seat - but I'm happy to say this time the author avoided hour long fight scenes. Lastly, I had MANY laugh out loud moments, which is always great when you are stuck in horrible traffic. Thanks Sonja for introducing me to this audio series!
Although I'm rather nominally Christian and my worldview is closer to Harry's than Michael's, I really like how there's room for an array of beliefs and opinions in the Dresden stories.
And, as usual, Butcher left me wanting more.A few comments from the second reading:This time around, it didn't feel slower out of the starting gate to me.
I always enjoy seeing how people can work around the rules of the Fae.To those who see Harry's--and, I presume, Butcher's--worldview as chauvinism: Gard and Luccio coming to the rescue with the helicopter is just one more way I'd refute that charge.Michael's injuries, and others' reactions to them, still choked me up the second time around, even though I knew he'd mostly recover.
