https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51695.Living_My_Life
خوندن زندگینامهها همیشه برام لذتبخش بوده همونطور که شنیدن حرفهایی که آدمها از زندگیشون برام میزنن همیشه جالبه برام، خوندن خودزندگینامهی اما گلدمن هم از این قاعده مستثنی نیست.خوندن ۱۱۴۶ صفحه میتونه برای بعضی خوانندهها خسته کننده باشه اما باید تحمل کرد و آروم آروم با کتاب پیش رفت.فقط میخوام بگم ای کاش ای کاش ای کاش بتونم یک صدم اما گلدمن زندگی کنم.خوندن دیدارهاش با آدمهایی که جاهای مختلف اسمشون رو شنیدیم و آدمهایی که تا حالا اسمشونم به گوشمون نخورده،خوندن دربارهی زندگی شخصیش چه در زمان کودکی چه بز
خوندن زندگینامه‌ها همیشه برام لذت‌بخش بوده همونطور که شنیدن حرف‌هایی که آدمها از زندگیشون برام میزنن
If you want to read the story of a woman who knew everyone worth knowing, originated every radical idea that's ever flitted through your mind eighty years before you did, loved literature, drinking, clothes, flowers, theater, conversation and parties...well, this is the book for you.Inspirational and fun.
«اما گلدمن» (۱۹۴۰-۱۸۶۹)زاده ی سرزمین روسیه ، از خانواده ای یهودی مذهب بود که بیشتر عمر خود را در ایا
یکی از ستاره ها برای ترجمه خوب اثر هست و فقطیک فهرست نمایه برای اسامی بسیار کتاب نیاز دارد شخصیتهای 
She is quite badass, and here are some of my favorite true stories from her biographies:  Anecdote #1 : She read banned books as a teenager, enjoyed the political nihilist movement and resented the political oppression of the Tsar.
Anecdote #3 : She is a champion of the working class and women's movement.
Anecdote #4 : She participated in a plot to smuggle an anarchist out of prison cell in New York and her friends tried to dig a tunnel lead to the prison building.
She was not some unbalanced romantic trying to compensate for a bad childhood or an inhumane psychotic, but instead a reflective, caring, passionate person who stood up for issues and people that/who were extremely unpopular in her day (and some of them still are).
There's an endless array of characters, developments, and locations, all of which keep doubling back and changing as time passes.
Further, I found myself wishing to hear more of her voice on the various issues, not just a recounting of events and personalities.
For that, I've turned to a book of her essays.In short, this book is a long road to a better understanding of an absolutely vital person in the history of social justice and change.
Living My Life, Emma Goldmanعنوان: آنگونه که من زیستم (خود زندگینامه)؛ نویسنده: اما گلدمن؛ مترجم: سهیلا بسکی؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1385، در 1146 ص، شابک: 9644483200؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه انا گلد من، آنارشیستها، ایالات متحده قرن
I may not have enjoyed this memoir for lyrical qualities and literary conventions.
But, feck lyrics and conventions.
Through her memoir, Goldman subtly reminds her reader to keep things in a perspective of sorts (a couple conceptual steps back, if you will).
Literary conventions or humanitarian ideals?
I've been moved by many a memoir, but Goldman's holds a special place (right next to Jensen's A Language Older than Words) in my heart for a handful of reasons (among others that I'm sure will continue to come to me as I grow older):1.
2. Goldman gave me the confidence to believe in and live my ideals, even when facing what might seem like an insurmountable challenge.3.
One of the greatest autobiographies I've ever read. Emma Goldman had a commitment and a fire about her politics that I've never seen before. She was under threat of illegal imprisonment for most of her life and yet somehow still found her way out of both the United States and the Soviet Union a free woman.
Goldman's autobiography is full of history, romance, horror, and joy. She literally had me laughing out loud. She had a great sense of humor! I definitely recommend this book to everyone- especially all those who are interested in Anarchism, feminism, and history.
This book not only tells the life story of an incredible human and woman, but also gives fascinating first-hand accounts of several historical events, including the free speech and conscription fights in the US and the first few years of the USSR.
Obviously American rebellion goes back much further than this, and if we are less in touch with those angry times that came before, our horrid attention spans and lack of historical presence must be blamed.
Emma Goldman lived over a span that could be described as the golden age of American (and European) anarchism, and had to have been, as she was very much at the center of that times creation.
A young immigrant woman, sickened and inspired by the hangings that followed the Haymarket Riots of 1886, Goldman devoted her life to philisophical Anarchism: a challenge to the institutions which mankind allows to limit it’s very humianity, be they “church”, “law”, “work”, or “love”.
Goldman never lost faith after the October uprising in Russia and accused Lenin and the Bolsheviks of corrupting the revolution.
But there will always be a Lenin (and a subsequent Stalin) who seizes power, who tells the people he will lead them and rebuild, and who fails to establish anything akin to the freedom promised.Revolutions are doomed to infighting and to suppression.
You only need to look at the reaction of anarchists to Goldman's denunciation of the Bolsheviks to see how people will only hear what they want to hear, even the so-called enlightened revolutionaries.Through reading Goldman we learn that in her heart she is right, but in practice we will always be chasing "the beautiful ideal."
Ms. Goldman's role in the Kronstadt Rebellion of 1921 is the best reason I can find to recommend this book, and I wish she would have spent more time talking about it and why she supported the rebellion, rather than presuming her readership understood the story in advance.Other than providing a rare firsthand account of said rebellion, much less from a source unsympathetic to both the Soviet state and the west, I am hesitant to recommend the book.Goldman was a part of the conspiracy to murder Henry Clay Frick, and played a part in virtually every American leftist movement during her life.Female suffrage (only arguably "leftist") is the only exception I can think of, and this abstention was willful.In spite of this, I walked away feeling as though she hadn't presented what she felt was right or wrong (maybe this is an anarchist thing?) in any sort of systematic way.
Emma Goldman was as far left as they come – an anarchist at the dawn of the 20th century – but she was Jewish, and I agree with her grandmother, who said to the warden while bringing her Passover food to eat in prison, “My Chavaleh does more for the poor than the traditional girls.” You can’t help admiring Emma Goldman after reading her autobiography, even if you don’t agree with her.
For me, the main lesson was in the title, “Living My Life.” This two-volume autobiography gives a complete picture of Emma Goldman’s inner feelings and outward actions from her youth till her old age.
I never thought a nearly 2,000 page autobiography of a woman who lived 100 years ago could be so inspiring, funny, poignant, thought-provoking, educational, honest, and sad.
Goldman was an incredible writer — the book mixes momentous historical events which she lived through and participated in, and small-scale vignettes about her personal life and relationships to other people.
Both are fascinating.As a social justice activist, it's was also riveting to read a firsthand account of how much, and how little, has changed since Goldman was fighting for a more just and humane society a century ago.
The book is STRONGLY recommended for serious readers and modern-day radicals.¡Si se puede E.G.!

It is amazing how this compassionate, vibrant, obstinate woman is able to transport the reader from the transformation of her life from early adulthood to mature adulthood as though we are right there with her through it all. Although I do not necessarily agree with her political views, she gives a unique and valuable perspective both on the bourgeoisie of American Capitalism and on the disappointing realities of Russia's Communist Revolution. A must-read for anyone who wants a better understanding of political change and revolutionary thought.
This is the story of a woman who lived the fullest possible life. It's just a tragedy that what she dreamed of, what many people of her time dreamed of, was destroyed by the Bolsheviks. She saw the Communist reality in Russia and very quickly understood its demonic statism which she knew, and which it did, lead to disaster. A little long-winded at times, perhaps, but always enthralling for people intrigued y the question of how to change society for the better..
I can hardly address the subject matter, about which I know little - though that itself is a reason to read the book, the subtleties of the thinkers of the era that for better or worse did remake the world are a mystery to many of us today, despite having been well documented.But aside from that it is an absorbing good read from a woman who did indeed live life.
I don't care much for biographies and autobiographies as a rule, but what a life this woman had!
The best way to learn history is from the people who lived it and this autobiagraphy is the best one I've read.
"Red-Emma" tells it like it is- an uncomfortable read that will knock your socks off.
pdf - us.archives.org
She was a public intellectual as well as a radical, and a self-taught cultural critic.The unabridged version of this book is a thousand pages long, in two volumes: one roughly covering her experiences organizing in the United States, as she moves in the anarchist movement from margin to center, and then, in the second volume, her deportation to Russia, her disillusionment there, and her wandering around the globe.
But there were plenty of pages that slowed the narrative arc, and therefore made the book more difficult to read, and explains why it took me almost six months to finish it.Goldman defended Leon Czolgocz, and her lifelong love Sasha Berkman's attempts on the lives of both president McKinley and the capitalist Henry Clay Frick in an intriguing way.
Maybe I assumed that a person who could live such a full and meaningful life could never have the additional gift of being able to write about it well.
But she's also capable of some real reflection and self-criticism, whether it's struggling with the Bolsheviks or thinking through her young beliefs in ends always justifying means.
The most compelling tension in the book for me is how a principled person lives in a world of 'two evils.' Do you dedicate yourself to the 'lesser,' or remain critical to both at the risk of being perpetually misunderstood?
for Emma's comments on virtually every radical and left-wing figure the 1890s - 1920s, including her relationships with such notables as Eugene Debs, Peter Kropotkin, Lenin, Trotsky, Makhno, Big Bill Haywood, Margaret Sanger, John Reed, Ernest Hemingway, and her views on Nietschze, Freud, William Jennings Bryan, Henry George, Walt Whitman, and the list goes on and on and on!4.
last but certainly not least, the very long chapter about Emma's experiences in "Soviet" Russia, 1920-21.
i think this chapter is written in a more personal style, for one, and in it Emma is also able to do more reflecting and summarizing, connecting the events she witnessed with the larger political degeneration of Russia after the Bolsheviks assumed command and steered the Revolution into the gutter.
Emma Goldman lived in one of the most interesting periods of American history, or rather, during a period in American history where things were exactly the same as they are now, but instead of targeting Muslims, the (then) "war on terror" was being fought against European (mostly Russian and German) anarchists (in the US).
She is also interesting because she was one of the first international advocates of the Russian Revolution who had the courage, as early as the 1920s, to publicly withdraw her support of the Bolsheviks and openly criticise the first dictatorship of the proletariat.
This time -- maybe because I am taking a brief series of classes in Yiddishkeit at Green Apple Books sponsored by the Workman's Circle -- I am really enjoying it.
I also read Vivian Gornick's biography of Emma, so I have a better overview.
But I'm finding Emma's own retelling of her life very engaging.J.Edgar Hoover called Emma Goldman "the most dangerous woman in America," and this book tells you why.
I think the autobiography was way better than Gornick's biography -- in fact, why would a writer need to retell an incredibly well-written, self-reflective, dramatic personal account?
Her autobiography begins by giving insight into the injustices of being an immigrant, and throughout the book, the reader learns a first-person account of all of the movement's major demonstrations and events of the late 19th and early 20th century in the United States.
Not just a work of her political activity, Goldman includes the reader in her most intimate moments, from her relationships with the men she loved to her bonds with her closest family members, this autobiography illustrates that one devoted to activism still has many similarities to one who isn't.
