https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266485.Last_of_the_Breed
Two parts Rambo, one part Firefox – all Louis L’Amour.First published in 1986, this is one of L’Amour’s later books (he died in 1988) and tells the story of Major Joe Mack, who was shot down over the Soviet Union and was held briefly and interrogated but then escaped into the Siberian wilderness and kept going!Simply told, with few frills but from a talented storytelling, veteran writer, this was fun to read.
L’Amour sets up a book length showdown between Mack and his Soviet counterpart Yakut native Alekhin who also lives as their ancestors did.Like most of L'Amour's books, this is also a vehicle for him to explore themes of naturalism, fortitude, and personal courage.
Forty four years on the planet, probably thirty of those in an awareness of this author and this the first of his books I've read.
It was pure, unadulterated story telling, artful in its simplicity and gripping with its sure-footed plotting, characterisation and knowledge of the wilderness.
In fact, all of them would have mined gold, not discussed it.) But it is the men, the real men, the book is interested in exploring and L'Amour has got the steroetypical "Iron John" nailed.
And thank you Amazon Lists for pointing me in the direction of this book and author.
I'm not sure if anyone reads Zane Grey anymore but Louis L'Amour still remains popular.
He is an American patriot but it is his knowledge and dedication to his tribal ways that will help him to survive.
Yet I can't help seeing that Mack is dealing with some conflicts between his patriotism to a conquering nation and his roots.
L'Amour throws a little winter romance in this story but it is the harrowing story of survival against all odds and the conflicts between loyalties for both American and Russians that make this tale so vibrant.
I read this one way back when so to speak. I'd forgotten it till it came up in another conversation. Joe Mack a Major and an American pilot is shot down and has to escape through Siberia finally across the Bering Strait. He has to depend on his skills as a Native American as well as his training. It's a good outdoors/adventure story.This isn't a western as most of L'Amour's books are. It's well written and what is usually called a "page turner". May be a bit of what is called a "guy book", but good.
But for just a little while, while reading this book, I actually pictured myself surviving in the wilds by wits and skill alone.
Then I got really cold, so I went and got a blanket to finish reading the book.
*Warning* - you might get cold reading this book.
Keep a warm blanket handy.*Spoiler Alert (sort of)* If you're looking for romance, this isn't your book.
LL tosses a bit of what he considers "romance"; into the book, but it boils down to one of the characters is a girl and our main character is a guy.
While struggling to fit at a new school during my eighth grade year I was assigned to read this book for my English class.
I couldn't put the book down until I was finished with it (I was reprimanded several times for reading it during classes).
This book gave me the courage I needed at the time and I ended up going out for the wrestling team and I had an undefeated season that year.
I even ended up taking up pole vaulting in track and field the next year in high school because of the opening scene of the book!

Sometime during the late 1980s an Air Force test pilot flying an experimental plane is shot down and captured by the Soviets.
Being half Sioux, half Cheyenne, impossibly brilliant, a superb athlete and trained in wilderness survival, the pilot, Joe Mack, manages to escape and lose himself in the wilds of Siberia.
Why was this fighter pilot so valuable to the Soviets that half the army and the KGB deployed to recapture him?
And how convenient that the first four people Joe meets in the vast Siberian wilderness speak English!
I could have forgiven all that if the wilderness survival parts had been better described.
When I was in high school,before they had television and talking pictures,I read a short story called The Most Dangerous Game.I strongly recommend it.The Last of the Breed has borrowed a lot from this story.In a good way.Louis L'Amour has taught me a lot about Russia and American Indians.His descriptions of Siberian life,animals and the physical beauty of the country are educational and thrilling.Good story from start to end.
Άκρως απολαυστική περιπέτεια στα κατάβαθα της πάλαι ποτέ Σοβιετικής ένωσης.Η γραφή έχει μπόλικες αμερικανιές (ο Τζο Μακ φέρνει και λίγο από Ράμπο στο First blood), αλλά πέρασα πολύ καλά μαζί του και του τα συγχωρώ όλα και με το παραπάνω! Εξάλλου, το βιβλίο γράφτηκε το 1986 που όλα αυτά ήταν εντελώς της μόδας. Νομίζω ότι σε όποιον κάνει κλικ η περίληψη, θα αρέσει και το περιεχόμενο. Το μόνο βέβαιο ότι θα ξαναδιαβάσω κι άλλο βιβλίο του L'Amour.
It was a cool story, and definitely different than I had anticipated.
There weren't very many pages left, but there was still no resolution.
Finally, in one paragraph on the very last page, it closes the story off, and it was awesome.
I'm a little bummed that we never heard from Natalya again, because she was cool, but knowing Joe Mack (the main character) it all worked out just as it should.
(which meant that they got together and had happy, peaceful lives).I'm not hooked on L'Amour, but it was a cool story and something different.
This was one of my grandpa's favorite books so when I came across it in a pile for a loonie, it was was a must read.
It has a rugged peacefulness to it that made even me, the animal lover not cringe during the hunting scenes.
The book was well-written and definitely took me the closest I will ever be to camping out in Siberia.
It also provided a glimpse into the political climate of the Soviet Union during the 1980's.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for a slow, methodical but nonetheless entertaining drama with an interesting and suspenseful plot.
I have to admit, I was skeptical about reading a book by Louis L'Amour, but I trusted the friend who recommended it (Thanks, Joyce!) and I was more than pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed it.U.S. Air Force Major Joe Makatozi finds himself a prisoner in Siberia during the Cold War. His test plane being forced down had been artfully arranged by Colonel Zamatev, whose plan is to capture and interrogate specific people with knowledge of the weapons systems of the West.
But Colonel Zamatev, despite his careful planning, in totally unprepared for the part-Sioux, part-Cheyenne, part Scottish Highlander enigma that is "Joe Mack".
Grrrrrrr, I had a hard time rating this book.
Louis L'Amour is a storyteller.
That's the way I'd like to be remembered as a storyteller.
A good storyteller." That being said, I thought this book was VERY poorly written, to the point of driving me crazy.
I have never read any other Louis L'Amour books before, so I have nothing to compare this to, and I don't want to judge him based on just one book.
I enjoyed it enough that I will read something else of his in the future, and hope for the best;)
I thought was an exciting book.
Joe Mack is a strong willed individual who being captured by the Soviet Union for his knowledge of experimental air craft, as well as how to fly these.
Joe Mack takes on the GRU Soviet army Col. Arkady Zamatev.
He also Takes on the KGB and the entire Soviet Union, and not to mention crossing the Siberian Tundras, Swamps, Forests, and Rivers in the middle of winter.It was intense and inspiring to me and I would recommend it to anyone.
The story takes place during the Cold War, when a U.S. Air Force plane is shot down over Siberia and the pilot is taken to a secret Russian POW camp to be tortured for information.
But the pilot is a Souix Indian who was raised by his grandfather in the mountains of Idaho and taught all the survival skills of his Indian ancestors.
He escapes and sets out to return to the U.S. across Siberia and the Bering Strait to Alaska alone and on foot, living off the land, escaping detection.
My grandfather read every single Louis L'Amour book that existed.
He tried more than once to interest me but I never did read any.
Finally a couple years ago I picked up Last of the Breed and read it.
It's an amazing story!
Talk about a story of survival!
Joe Mack is in the US Air Force and his plane goes down somewhere in Russia.
Joe Mack (gotta love that name) ends up in a Soviet prison camp.
I loved the story and it's not my usual type of book, but I would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a good adventure story!
Escaping from a Siberian prison, he trekked across the wilderness evading capture to make it back to America.Why I started it: Rereading it for another Book Club, I was reminded that if I ever was captured by the Russians...
I have no skills to make it out, let alone to survive in the wild.Why I finished it: I love the none man-romance.
Where the hero finds a love interest, they never talk about their relationship and yet she is willing to wait over a year to see him again and is sure that they will get married if they can only find each other in America.
Amazingly this is the first Louis L'Amour book I have ever read. Read it for my book club and enjoyed it although the nobel savage idea is not really my thing, and I got tired of being so cold up there in Siberia.
Finished reading this to my boys and they wanted more.
My adopted dad read them, so did I...
Set in Siberia before the end of the Cold War, it tells the story of Air Force Major Joseph Makatozi, also known as Joe Mack, Col Zamatev of the former Soviet Union army, and Alekhin, a native Siberian tracker and hunter, as the main protagonists.Joe Mack is flying an experimental plane when he was tricked into crashlanding in a remote part of Siberia.He was captured and kept in a prison run by Col Zamatev.
Later, it would be revealed that Col Zamatev, had a hand in the plot to capture him and his plane, and the other prison inmates were actually technicians and scientists that were being kept there under interrogation.
It then takes us to his only mistake of the book: He gets shot down over Siberia, and, as luck would heve it, right by a Soviet prison camp.
As soon as the next night comes, he procedes to pole vault over a 20 foot high electric fence,evade about 50 angry Russian guards(the book takes this oppertunity to point out that the white men are lazy and stupid, easy to evade and defeat) and make his escape.
The rest of the book tells us how awesome indians are, even when they have been shot down over siberia.
The book also offers another perspective through the eyes of Joes pursuers, Colonel Zamatev, and the legendary Yakut tracker Alekhin.I found this to be a very interesting, and captivating story.
Not only did this offer a very captivating story about Joe Mack alluding his pursuers, but it also followed the stories of several more characters as well.
This greatly enjoyed this aspect of the book, because it not only allowed for another perspective on the chase through the eyes of the pursuers, but it also followed the stories of those who crossed paths with Joes Mack.
Throughout this book I really liked it because to me it was an adventure every step that Joe took.
It was so brilliant to me because I also love the outdoors and this book is a outdoors book along with this great adventure.
I can't give away the whole story of course, but lets just say that every little twig and crackle you read about in this book will all come together to shape Joe Mack's future.
If you like adventurous books along with outdoors then this would be the book for you.
It turns out that the pilot is also and American Indian who has spent many summers in the mountains learning the survival skills of his forefathers.
His incredible stamina and mental determination compels the reader to turn page after page wondering if the pilot will be caught or hif he will die of starvation, injury or exposure.
A departure from the typical western associated with Louis L'Amour books, this one is certainly worth the time it takes to read.
But read it, you'll learn a lot about Siberia, a man's strength of character, and how you can come to detest a detestable character.
1) Rating: 4 out of 52) Genre: Western3) Synopsis: Major Joe Mack escapes imprisionment and has to survive the bitter cold of Russia and the entire Russian military.4) Feelings: I read this book again because I remember loving it and want to write a survival story.
I figure why not read it again and get some pointers from it.
I still liked it but not as much as I originally did.
Then in a survival book, there usually isn't a whole lot of dialogue.5) Final recommendation: Good read but can be a little slow at times.Ryan James Burt Husband, Father, and Writerwww.RyanJamesBurt.com
Unlike most of his westerns, this is set in Siberia, and he gives a wonderful feel to the landscape.
The threat of freezing to death is very real once out in the snow.The story is about an American pilot who is shot down and then taken prisoner in a camp in Siberia.
He escapes, rather remarkably by poling over the wall the way people do at track meets.
He is then trying to get back home while being tracked by a skilled native of Sibera, through the winter forests of Russia.
It is a book about survival set in a beautiful landscape with memorable and numerous escapes.
I reviewed this book for the 'Bookin' it' book club.
I have a complete set of Louis L'Amour books, but this is one of my favorite.
I never have to wonder who is the good person and who is the bad, because it's quite clear.
Learned a lot about Soviet topography, especially the area of Siberia.
Learned how people live there, etc.
The book was well written, as are all of his.
I read this to my husband who was bedridden in a hospital, and when I'd leave for the night and come back the next morning, he'd remind me where our 'hero' was and what was going on, and I'd read more.
The story of a Red Indian escaping from a Siberian prison has much potential and the author seemed to have made the most of it.
Alekhin had never failed to track down an escaped prisoner.""But it was Alekhin of whom he must beware.""Alekhin was a Yakut.""Alekhin was a master tracker.""Alekhin always got his man."But then in the end Joe Mack is found by a random Russian who, by great coincidence happens to be in the right place at the right time.
The ultimate standoff between Joe Mack and Alekhin, Red Indian and Yakut, that the reader is being prepared for throughout the entire book and looks forward to, is never shared.
