https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249193.Be_Faithful_Unto_Death
The ‘suffering person’ is out little 12-year old boy coming of age in Hungary in 1892.
The little kid is a bundle of nerves and it would be amazing to do a word count to see how many times he is sick or homesick, has tremors, cries, blushes, quakes, and even faints from all the stressful situations he is engulfed in.The young boy wants to be a writer (a poet).
There is a much-needed section of notes that gives us details on all the political, historical and literary figures mentioned – about 5 or so extensive footnotes per chapter.I enjoyed the book and learned a lot about Hungary at this time in history.
FINALLY !!!!!!!!!!!
This is a Hungarian classic about a boy who moves to study in Debrecen. It's a beautiful tale of childhood and Hungary.
Nagyon szép tôrténet, és élethû, ahogy a tanulòk beszélnek egymàs közt.
Néha nagyon aranyosak és viccesek, mint példàul: Hisz te vagy a titkàr – mondta Orczy – a te titkod az egész.
Az egész könyv nagyon szépen van megìrva.
Mòricz Zsigmond jòl összehozza a különbözô részeket, mint példàùl, hogy Misi olyan lesz a bicskàval, mint az öreg levéltàros, aki mondig vissza megy megnézni, hogy jòl bezàrta-e az ajtòt.
Persze a könyv elején rosszùl bàntak a fiùk Misivel, hogy fölbontottàk a pakkot, s a könyv végén pedig a felnôttek bànnak vele rosszùl; nem hiszik neki, hogy nem adta el a reskontòt, hanem el lett lopva.
This was a beautifully written story.
At other points, I was wondering what was going to happen next and hoping the best for Misi and some of the others.
The writing style might take a little time to get into but once you do it's really good.
The plot is also a little slow to start.
I also learned some interesting pieces about Hungarian history ans culture from this book (mainly Mr. Nagy's speech to Misi though there were a few other parts).
I'm glad I picked this book up though I'm still not sure how I feel about the ending.
The finest description of boyhood hopes and fears I've ever read.
everybody has to read it!
This is the Hungarian James T. Farrell. Only Gombrowicz and Proust understood the development of a young writer with comparable clarity.
Still after this many years I think about this book and still after these years I say to myself: Be good until you die... A very good novel.
If I could give it less than zero stars, I would.
“Be Faithful Unto Death” follows a snapshot period in the life of Mihaly (Misi), an 11-year old scholar in the midst of uncomfortable growing pains no longer wanting to be a child but not developed enough to handle mature situations.
Don’t let the story plot fool you; “Be Faithful unto Death” is not a young adult novel nor childish in any way.
In fact, the novel is very much a character study that bleeds complexity.There are moments in “Be Faithful Unto Death” that Misi’s character is somewhat unbelievable, as no 11-year-old can possibly think or speak as he does throughout the story.
A novel about the trials and tribulations of a sensitive, overtly good schoolboy. Most of the novel is very touching with a nice small dose of Hungarian history. Because it was written in 1921 and set some 30 years before that it might not elicit the same nostalgia a boyhood story set in the 1980s would but it is still an entertaining read.
Once more a book from my childhood. Despite the fact that I never lived in Hungary, in my hart that is my country and the Hungarian language is my first language. Consequently this classic book was given to me when I was around 12 years old. It was considered a must read of my generation.
Hogyne tévedne el egy gyerek az élet nagy útvesztőjében, amikor a felnőttek is csak bukdácsolnak jó és rossz határán...
Basically, I really really liked this book, but it's style is rather literary and difficult to read when my brain is totally taxed by the stress of a new workplace, new country and learning a difficult language, so I had it sent back to Finland in someone's luggage and will be taking it up again when I return home in July. It's really interesting, but the writing style isn't the easiest to get into, somehow. So it's on hold until I've got more of my brain back.
A Hungarian classic; I re-read it several times. A novel about the school years of a sensitive, smart 11-year-old boy who attends a famous and established boarding school in the 19th century. He has a warm and honourable soul, and he wants to be good and honest in all situations, but this clashes with the cruel and greedy world of adult society. Even if he ends up disillusioned, he never gives up his dreams and ideals.
Yet one more book about the trials and tribulations of a 19th century boarding school student. This one, however, is causing most of his own trouble, simply by trying to be so "good" that it hurts. Hailed as a exceptional childhood novel, the author's intention was to illustrate the abuse and exploitation of goodness. In this sense, it is a full-on success. I'm not sure if I would recommend it as an example for life, though.
Nekem többnyire azért tetszett mert emlékeztetett a saját életemre, mint kis diák magayaroszagon. Csak én Kanadából jöttem egy kis faluba tanulni, nem magayaroszagon belül. Mivel kezdem felejteni a magyart , úgy éreztem ez jó könnyv lessz magyarul olvasni, talán fel ismerkedtetem magammal újra a magyart. Örülök hogy nem fordítást olvastam, sok viccnek nem lett volna értelme.
A kezdete unalmas volt, de a végén sok érzelem volt és érdekes lett. Az utolsó kettő fejezetnél már nem tudtam le tenni a könyvet.
