https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43369.God_Is_Not_Great
And I expected there to be a dicussion and dissection of religious beliefs and their influence on human interaction and how these beliefs, in a modern society, are not necessary anymore, and/or are probably even hindering the development of our society.Instead I get 341 pages on the most stupidest things people do in the name of religion, like, fundamentalist muslims telling poor people not to get polio vaccinations, and arguments like 'jews and muslims hate pigs because pigs are dirty and eat their young if they are trapped in little stables, but the muslims completely stole that idea from the jew' (complete with a really touching page on why pigs are really cute animals and that human babies love little pigs.
If someone blindly believes that there is no God, and no evidence whatsoever would change their opinion, then I quite agree that, for such people, atheism is indeed another religion.
Soon the debate would be over, and almost everyone would agree.Moving on to things more directly divine, I don't believe that thunder is the sound of the god Thor throwing his hammer.
Again, my evidence is largely based on other people's testimony, but the account of thunder in terms of electrical discharges is solid, coherent and meshes well with things I have seen.
I always thought he was at his best when he attacked specific individuals for their public positions and private failings, and his refusal--like the best 18th century satirists--to draw any line between the two.
It is a pity too, for many of the great religious crimes he chronicles would constitute, in some other book, a devastating condemnation of organized religion itself.Now, if Hitch would have instead written a book about Bin Laden or Pat Robertson--or about John Paul II or Benedict XVI--what an excellent polemic it might have been!
I read this months ago and never got around to the review...Simply stated, Hitchens puts into words all the reasons I shy away from organized religion.
At the same time, he seems oblivious to the fact that there are religious people out there doing great things; feeding the hungry, clothing the poor, building for the homeless.
Belief that decent religious people exist does not mean you have to agree with them or believe in their God.Mr. Hitchens, may I suggest a few new titles for your book?
Try "God Can Be Great, But Freaks Poison Religion" or "How Jerks Screw Up Religion".
I happen to like entertaining arguments more than tedious, nonsensical discussions on evidence for made-up assertions, and cheer Hitchens on when he offers his own (beware literalists, ironical!) belief:“My own view is that this planet is used as a penal colony, lunatic asylum and dumping ground by a superior civilization, to get rid of the undesirable and unfit.
Evidently, it was quite the other way about, which is the painless explanation for the profusion of gods and religions, and the fratricide both between and among faiths, that we see all about us and that has so retarded the development of civilization.” So, I guess in 17th century Europe, I would now be burned as a witch.
Something I learned at an early age, as a baptized Roman Catholic about to be confirmed, is that before anyone blindly accepts what they’ve been told over a period of time about a particular religion, it is your right, your responsibility and your duty to pick up a couple of books about Judaism, Hindu, Islam, Buddhism, Heavens Gate Kool-Aid Lovers or whatever they were all about, even Mormonism and Jehovah Witness, and read.
Get a book along the lines of Religion for Dummies (there is a joke in there somewhere) and get an overview of what these groups are all about.
I know she wouldn't understand my lack of desire to have anything to do with religion, so I just avoid the topic altogether whenever possible.The last day of their visit, the inevitable happened and she cornered me while I was making dinner:Her: "So, have you found a church yet?"Me: "Umm, no...
Seems like a lose/lose to me.Organized religion seeks (and too often succeeds) to exert control over people's thoughts and behavior, imposing standards of purity that are nearly impossible to attain, even in the most pious believer.
But I feel like faith/belief in and of itself is not a bad thing, nor does it make the person who holds it stupid or naive or less worthy of respect.
He makes his case using his great wit and flair for words, and the result is a compelling read.Here are a few favorite passages:"Many religions now come before us with ingratiating smirks and outspread hands, like an unctuous merchant in a bazaar.
The pathetic vestiges of this can still be seen, in modern societies, in the efforts made by religion to secure control over education, or to exempt itself from tax, or to pass laws forbidding people to insult its omnipotent and omniscient deity, or even his prophet."[On the Israeli-Palestinian dispute and referencing a speech by Abba Eban] "Two peoples of roughly equivalent size had a claim to the same land.
I do not need to be further convinced of the dangers of faith and religion, so I am willing to tolerate fallacies and offensive comments while I enjoy the witty writing.
Unfortunately, the author phrases this as the fallacious "religion poisons everything." Christopher Hitchens provides many poignant examples of wrongdoing founded in faith and religion, but this does not imply that everything done by religion is bad.
It is unfortunate that the conclusion of the book is overstated, because a more cautious assessment of the dangers of religious rejection of reason would be valuable and accessible to more people.I would recommend that people interested in the subject matter instead review the extensive on-line collection of atheist writing.
Since I can't say anything with out being labelled as a 'heretic' or a 'heathen', I will just say this;Not everything, but it does poison a lot of things. And its first victims are Reason and Common sense.
Imagine if a basketball fan set out to discredit baseball and converts its adherents to his chosen sport.
Replace baseball with religions and basketball with enlightenment rationalism and you've essentially got God is Not Great.
Hitchens' book is a catalog of the sins of religions and a well considered and highly pointed one at that.
I suspect Mother Teresa is cast in such an unfavorable light more from the antipathy Hitchens feels for his fellow polemicist Malcolm Muggeridge, who first filmed her, than anything she's done.
(In Hitchens estimation Muggeridge is an idiot as are most people he disagrees with).
And yet, what is Hitchens's book if not 300 pages of an unbeliever telling other unbelievers what believers think and why?
Chris Hedges, in his book I Don't Believe in Atheists, takes Harris to task for this.)And then there is his admiration of Socrates's concession that he might have been wrong, Socrates having said "in effect: I do not know for certain about death and the gods - but I am as certain as I can be that you do not know, either" (257).
Again, that Hitchens seems incapable of distinguishing between "truth" and "facts" or "data" is bizarre, given his standing as a literary critic.
Obviously, anyone who can write a less-than-flattering book about Mother Teresa is not concerned with offending anyone.
More or less, here's the rub: "God" explained a lot, back before we had Science and The Enlightenment, and now, humanity suffers at the hand of religious zealots whose battles spill over into the lives of the innocent.
And one point that I'm sure would make my mother cry: it is possible to live a moral and good life without "God." Given the right subject, he's actually pretty funny, though he always dangerously treads the line between being obnoxiously and prodigiously smart.
I'm over her place, updating my PS4, and my mother says to me, "I think this is a sign from God that I should keep my internet." I gave her a look that I probably would've gotten slapped for had I still been a child and said, "So what you're saying is that your god knocked out my power and internet and corrupted the data on my $400 video game system that had hundreds of hours of progress on its harddrive all because he wanted to send you a message that you should continue to pay $70 a month for a service you can't really afford because you tithe 10% of your already limited social security check every month to a church that worships him?"She sighed in disappointment and did not respond.
A new age of enlightenment was dawning.In retrospect the whole thing looks to have been a poorly-informed fad, as a few educated people had tried to point out at the time.
Picking up this book years later I’m reminded of the incredible weakness of his actual arguments, even when they were made in good faith.Hitchens does not understand religion and does not appear to be familiar with the philosophical underpinnings of the modern world, at all.
I’m sure this is enjoyable reading (preaching?) for the already converted, but Hitchens doesn’t even try to make a serious argument to anyone else.
It really wasn't until 2000 years ago that Christianity made excuses for his temper tantrums, and repainted Yahweh as a kind and loving god, despite a shitload of evidence to the contrary.
He was still the blood-and-thunder bad-ass that the Hebrews needed him to be, but he was slowly picking up the loving, motherly characteristics of the wife he left behind once they settled down, moving closer to the Christian concept of god.
grandparents ate some fucking fruit - you'd have to conclude that if god did exist, he'd be a psychotic douchebag and all-around piece of shit.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، در این کتابِ ارزشمند، به اختصار از موهوماتی چون: وحی و برهان هایِ گوناگونِ اثباتِ خدا، معجزه و نیروهایِ متافیزیکی، چرت و پرت هایِ دینی و مذهبی در موردِ خوک، کتابهایِ احمقانۀ عهد جدید و قدیم، تجاوز و کشتارِ مردم بیگناه توسط سردمدارانِ ادیان مختلف در تاریخ، جهنم و بهشت، تاثیرِ دین در رفتار و گفتار، به پایان رسیدنِ ادیان و سوء استفاده ادیان از دین و ... سخن به میان آمده ... در کل خواندنِ این کتاب را به فرزندانِ خردگرایِ سرزمینم توصیه میکنم.. عالی بود--------------------------------
البته به غیر از مردمِ ساده باور و خرافه پرستِ ساکن در سرزمینِ پاک و متمدنِ ایران زمین که این عرب پرستانِ بیشعور و ساده لوح سرزمینمان را به گند کشیده اند****************************‎دوستانِ گرامی، اگر شما و هر انسان دیگری، ادعا کند که شاهدِ یک معجزه بوده است، این میتواند دو دلیل داشته باشد،...
دوم: شما دچار توّهم شده اید و متوجه نیستید که چه دیده اید و روانپریش هستید‎امیدوارم با پیشرفتِ علم، ما هم بتوانیم خرد و اندیشه خویش را به روزرسانی کنیم و از این فاضلابِ کثیفِ خرافاتِ دینی و مذهبی رهایی پیدا کنیم‎زیرا تنها با مطالعه و خردگرایی، میتوانیم خطِ بطلانی بر رویِ موهومات و خرافاتِ کثافت و عرب پرستی بکشیم، که هزار سال است که مثلِ انگل بر جانِ سرزمینِ ما افتاده است**************************** ‎خبر داری ای شیخ دانا که من‎خدا نا شناسم....
(That is, tell me once, I learn my lesson and move on.) That being said, he does leave the believers with a lot of food for thought in this simple quote:Violent, irrational, intolerant, allied to racism and tribalism and bigotry, invested in ignorance and hostile to free inquiry, contemptuous of women and coercive toward children: organized religion ought to have a great deal on its conscience.I note, with some temerity, that those words are not applicable only to religion, however, but to the state of political figures making their rise in today's world.
By the time I finished the book, I was very glad that I had read it.Hitchens doesn't so much attack God as he attacks religion.
I wonder if they felt like they any kind of rebuttal, because Hitchens -- through his extensive readings and reportage -- has built a historically sound case against the three organized religions.It is worthy to note, while Hitchens does deride some of the beliefs and practices of the big three, he does not sneer of the entirety of the faiths.
He makes mention of it several times, but does not explore it deeply.Otherwise anyone with any kind of brainpower should read this book.

Indeed, so sure is Hitchens of the truth of his conclusion that he barely deals with any thing a Christian thinker has had to say, besides Paley.
(Oh, I think he mentions Agustine, Aquinas, Maimonides, and Newman, just for the purpose of pointing out that they have written "evil and foolish things.") He never bothers to engage any serious Christian thinker or argument (no, I am not saying that Agustine, Aquinas, Lewis, &c.
He spends more time critiquing her than any competent theological or theistic philosopher.He says that we do evil because we evolved that way.
But, if it’s true, if God exists, then I’m content with my atheist position.
Of course he is going to point out what individuals do in the name of religion, that is the exact purpose of it all, how far humans will go and to what extent they will cause suffering and ignite wars and deny the most basic needs to others because of what their God (read: whimsical being of a far-away land with a very serious ego problem) has said.
But she had a problem : I made my parents  laugh.
When Pops intoned, "Man cannot live by bread alone," I retorted, "What about chocolate croissants?" Parents cracked up and, of course, said, Ssssh, but sis was inflamed.
Beauty could only be found in movie zines...)Hitchens has written a scholarly and brilliant book on how relig "poisons everything." Relig, he avers, is man-made.
Even the men who made it cannot agree on what their prophets or gurus actually said or did.
But if ye are not a stiff-necked people, you will let Hitchens do it.
Description: In the tradition of Bertrand Russell's Why I Am Not a Christian and Sam Harris's The End of Faith, Christopher Hitchens makes the ultimate case against religion.
With a close and erudite reading of the major religious texts, he documents the ways in which religion is a man-made wish, a cause of dangerous sexual repression, and a distortion of our origins in the cosmos.
it is simply because the Ottoia prolifica worm survived the Burgess decimation.5* God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything4* 	Mortality 4* The Portable Atheist: Essential Readings for the Nonbeliever4* Arguably: Selected Essays3* Letters to a Young Contrarian4* The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and PracticeTR The Monarchy: A Critique of Britain's Favourite Fetish
Oh sure, he is doing plenty to deconstruct religion and belief, to point out the damage religion has done and continues to do, to reveal all the ways it "poisons everything," even to point out that those supposedly secular moments of horror that the religious try to pin on atheism are still bound up in religion and faith, but at its most simple and effective, God is Not Great is a conversation from one atheist to other atheists.
God is Not Great is one of the most reassuring of all the atheist texts of the last decade or two.
The only reason I gave this book four stars instead of five is that he has not said anything new in atheistic arguments, although he says it very well!
Hitchens is hilarious and I would run up to anyone who'd listen and read sections of his book out loud to them!A friend once was on a panel with him and he was completely drunk.
She said he was so lucid and his arguments so well thought out and pointed that he was so much better while fueled on alcohol than the rest of us could ever hope to be sober.
That is how much of a genius this man is!
I'm not preachy on religion, and everybody has their own take on spirituality and their own beliefs, which is how it should be. So......this book may not be for every reader out there. As an agnostic myself, I found GOD IS NOT GREAT to be an inspiring read for me personally.
Hitchens makes a compelling case against the major world religions and claims of religion being ‘essentially a force for good.’ His essays are presented with his characteristic wit, erudition and bravado (in the positive sense of defiance and courage).
Unafraid to name names, point fingers, and challenge orthodoxy, Hitchens makes his case masterfully and in a most readable manner.
As previous reviewers have mentioned, he’s mainly ‘preaching to the choir’ but he also provides an abundance of information to newly realized skeptics and atheists in search of additional ‘ground to stand on’ when faced with the inevitable challenges of the religious.
Fans of Hitchens might appreciate the following sites:All things Hitchens: http://www.hitchensweb.com/ for video relevant to this book: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sD0B-X...
A book that believers must find ridiculous beyond logical explanation, a big threat to their incessantly dominant indoctrination.After reading it, I felt like I had a rude awakening for Hitchens' views  that religion causes violence, religion is full of superstitions, religion in particular is hazardous to health, some religions are just copy-cats,  both the old and the  new testaments are inconsistent, religion has been the root of corruption, religious dominance can come to an end,religion  has been emphasizing   the meaning of sin, religion abuses children, and people can live without religion.In the end, what Hitchens wanted to point out, the way I see it overall, is that there has been a culture of ignorance in that people conform to the facts they find universal.
This is because Hitchens is not excercising objective thought here, he is running an attack campaign on an opponent of his own dogmatic definition.At it's core this book is a rant deriding fundamentalists, but with it's strict and extreme definitions, at the end of it all you get the feeling like you are laughing at competitors in the special olympics.
Besides barely making sense, it's a statement that makes me think, after writing an entire book on the subject, Hitchens still has no idea what draws people to religion in the first place.
