https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/772888.Woman_on_the_Edge_of_Time
At that time, I enjoyed Marge Piercy’s story of a 37-year-old Chicana woman in New York whose already-complicated life takes a twist for the bizarre when she begins to communicate with an ambassador from the year 2137, but I found little to identify with personally beyond the yearning for a more egalitarian, utopian world.
After the second reading I had no doubt that she had in fact been communicating with and visiting the world in 2137, and that her brave actions at the end of the book played a critical role in averting a disastrous future.
I want to travel back in time to stop Marge Piercy from publishing this novel.
I wanted her institutionalized, honestly, where three square meals a day, socializing with nuts and being kept safe from pimps seems like an improvement on her current situation.I hated the time traveler.
I'm open to the possibility that Connie is hallucinating the visitor altogether, which would be an even more depressing journey for me to continue on.I can see where Piercy is going with this novel, charting the mental frailties of a woman ostracized by society due to her gender, her ethnicity, her social class.
There were times when I was so frustrated with the main character. She was driving me crazy. She was walking through an entirely different world and assuming everything was the same. I realized why this was bothering me - I was wanting and expecting her to react more like a science fiction reader. (And many science fiction characters.)Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This novel presents some interesting ideas of how we could live, versus how we are living, raising the question of if we are living or simply struggling to continue to exist.While this book may sound like a very heavy, possibly dry read, it is anything but.
Now, I cringed quite a bit and thought it was unintentionally humorous at times.The story is about a woman in the 1970s who’s a mental patient (it did remind me a bit of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) but she can communicate with those in the 22nd century.
It’s a cautionary tale and must have seemed quite impressive back in 1976.I loved the language imagined 150 or so years into the future, how English evolved, done in a way that makes use of the vernacular of the 1960s and the 1970s; it’s adapted from that time.
The story cuts back and forth between her 1970's life in a mental institution (which has nothing to do with her ability to talk to people in the future) and the future community.I thought this book spoke well to three broad topics:-What it meant to be a mental patient in the 70's-What the future could be like if we continue to pollute our planet and our bodies with synthetic, harmful chemicals-What the future could be like if we were more intuned to natureThis book is in equal measure a criticism of Piercy's times and a hopeful ision of what our society could be.
Maybe others will come along and argue and tell me to keep going, that "it gets better!" Maybe other potential readers will think, “I could soldier through that.” Maybe someone will find some use from my experience.
She goes back when she gets lonely.-BIG: If the payoff is supposed to be whether or not Connie is insane and simply dreaming these encounters, I don’t care enough to stick around and find out.
Rather than this tour ride, I’d instead enjoy an account of utopia; at least a catalog of its characteristics it is more honest.-BIG: The main character doesn’t have critical thinking skills.
Just in case I never actually did before.The story begins with 30-something-year-old Connie Ramos living in NY.
Connie herself is difficult to embrace as a character because while these things are happening to her she's still pretty resistant to the idea that Luciente's society in Mattapoisett is all that much better.
Things were done to Connie that were difficult for a strong-stomached reader as myself to read, and on more than one occasion I couldn't help but think about that other hospital novel, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest written in 1962.
And after Chapter 4, it became easier for me to empathize with Connie and enjoy her trips to the world of 2137.One of my groups is reading the book this month (March 2010) so I'm going to hold off on a more thorough (and spoiler-laden) review until later this month, hoping to get some insights and different POVs from the discussion threads.************************Woman on the Edge of Time (WOTEOT or Woman) is an interesting if not especially well written entry in the utopian/dystopian genre.
I enjoyed it eventually and found a lot to admire and hope for in Piercy's vision of the future, and I would certainly recommend it to the utopian/dystopian reading crowd.
Piercy's utopia is intriguing and creative—and therein lies the problem.Woman on the Edge of Time is a good example of how one can take a concept (in this case, a utopian society) and overdo the trope to the point where it distracts from the story one is trying to tell.
Piercy's utopia is too crowded.In contrast, Connie's present is far too simple a world.
Ben the Philosopher appreciates what Piercy is trying to do, considers her utopia and Connie's plight, and contemplates the power struggles and social conflict philosophy underpinning this book.
Consuelo Ramos is a 35 year old Chicana woman, poor, struggling, pummeled by poverty and the people around her.
To prison maybe for the bruisers of life; if not, to the asylum for the battered.
Connie is a woman on the edge.
She's a catcher, an empath and into her personal hell appears a person from the future, a person who can show Connie what living can be, what the living can fight to achieve.
Yet a person without power is an equal to millions of others.
Millions who want the same things she does.
Love, some dignity and a say in her own life.
Similiarly, her Utopian Society of the future has had to sacrifice some things that are extremely important to Connie (or nearly any 20th/ 21st C person) in order to create a sustaining and egalitarian society.
In one of the more illustrative passages, Connie's friends from the future drop in on 20th C United States.
It was nicely handled.Definite recommended reading -- it's got the sci-fi element but the writing and characterizations are strong enough to make the book enjoyable to most people who enjoy a good imaginative, anti-establishment novel.
It's been a while, but I remember liking this book a lot.
It has some fantastic notions and weird/interesting ideas within its future utopia (futuropia?
femitopia?) that are fun to agree or disagree with.
Unlike other utopia novels, Piercy gives you room to agree or not.
This is admirable and is as it should be; I can't stand force-feeding-shrill-polemic books (Ayn Rand, I'm looking at you).
As John Stuart Mill said, "The worst offense that can be committed by a polemic is to stigmatize those who hold a contrary opinion as bad and immoral [people]."Beyond being an exploration of ideals, there is decent characterization and tenderness.
The way that Piercy has structured her utopian community of the future is not too far off the direction that alternative communities have been moving since the '60s -- and which has only accelerated in recent years, with the greater focus on sustainability and alternate energy sources.
She also does a nice job of contrasting the plausible future utopia with an equally plausible dystopia, in which everything is state-controlled, bio-engineered, and class divisions have flourished and multiplied.
Whether or not the main character time travels or is merely mad becomes irrelevant.
Still mulling this one over.
It was an absolutely compelling read.
Her treatment by the mental health system was horrifying, and the author's commentary on the treatment of poor people and people of color by society seemed all too real.
Even after my lengthy intermission (I had to return the book to the library, and then wait for the hold to work its way back to me), I found myself instantly caught up in it again.
The only thing I'm on the fence about is the ending, which felt a little unresolved - or maybe I'm just not satisfied with the resolution.
I guess you could call the future society she imagines a "feminist utopia" (as I've seen in reviews on this site).
When I read it for a Comparative Literature class I was impressed by the way the family unit and community itself were structured and functioned.
And its really stuck with me a long time and seems to have grown with me subconsciously.
I've read it a couple times since and the "utopia" has seemed a little less ideal but still this book has lots of interesting ideas and a good story as a backdrop.
This shows that the book has some staying power since audible thought it was worth recording 40 years after publication.
Although the medical professions in the mental facility find her seriously mentally ill she finds love and a positive life in the future world.The kind of life found in the future world is always the highlight of such books.
How this book examines a future world in the light of the problems being faced in the current times what is probably the most enjoyable thing to me.
The denigration of the 20th century mental health world is something I have been significantly exposed to so the book did not seem particularly enlightening to me.
it's about this lady who sometimes travels into this utopian-egalitarian future.
she lives in an insane asylum so you're not supposed to know if she's crazy or really time traveling.
the end is a surprise.i thought it was really interesting to read about what this author thought a feminist utopia would look like.
i thought it was fun to agree or disagree with aspects of it and i unintentionally started designing my own utopia.
makes me kinda think that we could NEVER find a way to organize/govern ourselves that would work for more than 10% or so...
what do you think friends?
70's feminist tentative-utopia. As that genre goes, i really like this one. It comes more from the gender fluid/ androgyny positive side of things than the essentialist "women are more nurturing shit", which i liked. And i liked that the main character was a mad woman and that madness was well explored, if slightly simplistically at times. I don't like it's anti-cityness or certain aspects of uniformity that it espouses, but it's pretty tolerable for the traditions it adheres to. Those traditions are, ultimately, part of a history i respect and am grateful for.
One of the best novels I have ever read. It will stay with me for a long time, and gave me a lot to think about.Piercy has created a Utopia, one I would want to live in and see more of. That has not happened before with all the Utopias I've read about.Connie's life and experiences are so extremely shocking, because as a reader I know there have been women going through this in real life. Piercy gave them a voice to be heard by many for years to come.
Amazing if only for the introduction of 'per' as a gender neutral pronoun, Brilliant....and the social commentary is great as well..
As a Chicana woman, we see a lot of her social struggle--against the expectations that her family had for her and the easy way people fall into the same traps as those who came before them.I think this passage in the book really spoke to me.
I think that's sort of the overarching feeling I have about this book: I get it.One of the parts that also got me was when Connie does go to the mostly Utopian future and at first she's sort of disgusted by it because it's farm-like and not a super-technologically advanced society.
There was a lot of talking and exposition where I suddenly felt like I was stuck inside Piercy's "What I did on my Summer Vacation: Toured a Utopian Society." When I take a step back and think about WHEN this was written (early 70's), it's a bit mind-blowing, really.
It's an incredible social commentary and an interesting look into the world of the "insane asylum" circa 1970, told from the perspective of an uneducated poor Hispanic woman who lands there unjustly.
I might have liked it better if it just simply didn't include that part and we are left to wonder.I'd recommend this book for anyone interested in soft-sci fi / feminist / dystopian-utopian literature.
Holy crap, why didn't I read this ten years ago?
And as the reader discovers more and more of Mattapoisett, Luciente, Bee, Jackrabbit and the entire cast of future people, it is obvious how close to a utopia our society has become.The parts taking place in Connie's time and world, however, are much darker.
Whether it's her brother signing over her rights (effectively robbing her of consent in a medical situation), her treatment at the hands of the medical and legal establishment, or the ways in which she is constantly mistrusted, disbelieved and outright mocked, it's clear that not only are people like Connie out there (and even today, in the 21st century, they did not miraculously vanish in the 80s), but they are still muted, ignored and treated as barely human.Slowly, it becomes obvious just how much of an indictment against society this novel is.
I mean, I know that Connie's observation that the future men were emasculated was not to be trusted when you considered the horrors that she went through in her own time, but I wondered what Piercy intended in showing us Luciente/Diana as a destructive relationship, and also Bolivar/Jackrabbit as one which while not destructive, certainly caused pain for other characters.
There was little resolution there, but that certainly made it more open-ended and keeps you thinking about what future we are headed to.A lot of people are saying in their reviews that this is a book about the nature of sanity and insanity and no doubt it is, but funnily enough it didn't cross my mind that Connie might actually be insane until the last few pages.
This book is filled with so much meaning, speculation and is just smart all the way around.
At times, she sees a person who she comes to know as Luciente who claims to be from the future, and eventually takes Connie to this future which is seen as a possible utopian version of our own society.
But why did Luciente reach out to Connie?
I am not going to go much further; but know that this book can cause a lengthy discussion, one that I am willing to join at any time.
This is utopia as seen through the eyes of a fourth-grader, except that it was written by a grown woman taking a swing at science-fiction and missing big-time.
Since any happy-ending would be entirely out of character with the book (or with being a woman and Latina), the ending was fairly obvious, especially to anyone who'd seen "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest." The utopia was impossibly good, the real world was impossibly bad, both were laid on thick, and the victimization was complete.
One of those books which doesn't make you feel bored so much as angry for insulting your intelligence and wasting your time.
This is my favorite kind of feminist book, akin in many ways to the stories of Octavia Butler and Joanna Russ. Consuelo is a woman living a hopeless life in modern America. Her lover is dead, her child has been taken from her, and there is literally no one alive who respects her. She is mired in a mental hospital, where she begins having visions of the future.
Man, I feel so sorry about how much I disliked this book. I'm sure that if I had read it 40 years ago, I would have been very impressed. But it's just so pedantic! The plot is a bad excuse for a back-to-the-earth polemic. I will always love He, She and It but once is more than enough for this one.
