https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160988.The_Best_Nest
P.D. Eastman's The Best Nest is a story about finding the best home for your loved ones. I remembered reading a childhood poem which related to it too much.Indeed, Mrs. Bird was too picky!
Mrs. Bird was too choosy and Mr. Bird was kind enough to go for all the troubles for their family. Sugary story, I would say! Their dress up was amazing!
. I think I enjoyed these reviews almost as much as I enjoy the book.Zenobia has asked me to read it for several days in a row now.
I love it when the kids get emotionally involved in a book!For me, it's a great little moral tale, the pictures are simple but very funny (the look on the horse's face when Mr & Mrs Bird collect horse hair for their nest, the looks on the birds' faces...), and James (aged 6) will be able to read it himself soon.
I wanted to throttle Mrs. Bird for being so picky.
There are some passages from 'classic' literature that are worth keeping alive, such as this one; from, The Best Nest by P.D. Easton, "I love my house, I love my nest, In all the world, My nest is best." Do you concur?," and, if not: might not you be the reason? Just asking? -Please pardon the grammar errors. Sometimes, wisdom transcends grammar. But I still think grammar mechanics are important.
This was the first book that my daughter loved, so we have read it at least 100 times. She still takes it to bed with her sometimes. Books - the ultimate comfort.
I thought Mrs. Bird was a little quick to judge, but she was after all with egg.
I sunk myself in this book.
The life lessons this book gives are priceless.
The biggest lesson is this: Do not listen to your nagging wife!
What the bird should have done is re-model the birdhouse, put in a sports den and wet bar.
The wife bird would have been wise to make snacks and keep the birdhouse clean.
I hope the author writes a sequel to this book where the dad bird tells her to find her own place, then turns the birdhouse into a swingin' bachlor pad.
Now that I would read!
To sum up, a must read.
(Bodhi - 4 stars) The main idea of this book is that two birds are looking for a nest.
I liked it because they had to look and look for a nest and they found one eventually, and it was funny.(Saskia - 5 stars) Mr. Bird sang a song and he was so happy because he loved his house.
Mrs. Bird came home and told him to stop singing because she did not like their house.
I would give this book five stars because I could sing along to the song, which I liked.
Of course I read this a long time ago. But I got it on ... Saturday? To go with my new color Nook and read with my niece. Fun!And ironic, considering my day today. Be happy with what you have. A lesson to be learned by all of us.
Another excellent one. Very fun and funny. Great to read aloud or as a beginning reader.
Boring to look at, boring to read. A good children's book is fun for both the child and the parent.
The Mrs. Bird was unsatisfied with her bird house because it was not the "best" as Mr. Bird so happily sang before.
At the end of the story Mrs. Bird goes missing and Mr. Bird goes searching for her.
He eventually find his way back to their old bird house and finds Mrs. Bird there now singing the same song Mr. Bird sang before, "I love my house.
I love my nest.
In all the world, This nest is best." I feel this book really relates to how people are always in pursuit of happiness through bigger and better things.

There is no place like home17 November 2013	This is a wonderful little story (see I am not always harsh when it comes to Children's books) about two birds who decide that they no longer like their old house (or at least the woman doesn't, the man is perfectly happy to sit on top of his house and sing his song all day about how his nest is the best nest) and go on a quest to find a new house.
At the beginning one of them becomes sick of her home and wants something better, however it turns out, at the end, that the best place was actually the place that you originally started from.
This book is about two birds that set out to find a better nest.
It also teaches children that what you already have in front of you can become what is best for you.
In the book, Mr. Bird sings a little song about his nest; "I love my house.
In all the world this nest is best." This can be enjoyable when reading aloud to a group of children.
In the beginning, Mrs. Bird did not have a good perspective on their nest, but in the end, she had a much better perspective on their nest.
The best nest.
It was fun to be able to read it to my son and have his enjoy it as well.Eastman has always been one of my favorite children's authors, I even like her books more than Seuss simply because it isn't filled with a bunch of tongue twisters.So Mrs. Bird isn't happy with their nest, and even though Mr. Bird loves it, they leave to look for a new nest.
They try lots of places that don't work out, until Mrs. Bird decides to nest on a bell in a church.
It's his own nest that Mrs. Bird hated.
This adorable book is about Mr. and Mrs. Bird trying to find the best nest.
Mr. Bird is content with his own nest, but greedy Mrs. Bird is no.
After a not so pleasant experience Mrs. Bird learns that their first nest, was actually the best.This book teaches children about a valuable lesson, about not being too greedy.
Reading this book to children is a great and appropriate way to teach this lesson.
The illustrations also do a good job at demonstrating each characters personality and emotions.
By simply looking at the illustrations you feel what the characters are feeling.
Mr. Bird thinks they have the best nest, but Mrs. Bird disagrees, so they go on a journey to find a new home.
They try living in a tree, a boot, a mailbox, a church steeple and a chimney, but unfortunately all are already taken.
The two are separated after Mrs. Bird flew off in a frightened frenzy, but are reunited at their old nest.
In addition, I like the storyline and how the birds try to find a new nest, but all are taken.
For example, the boot is already taken by a foot, the tree is already taken by a raccoon and the mailbox is already taken by the mail.
The Best Nest is about Mrs. Bird and Mr. Bird.
Mrs. Bird doesn't like the nest that they live in anymore and she wants a new one.
So Mr. Bird and her go looking for new nests around the town, but they can't find the perfect one.
They find a new nest, but it goes horribly wrong and Mr. Bird loses Mrs. Bird.
The Best Nest is one of my favorite picture books because it is a good book to make predictions to and I think that it engages readers because they want to know what happens to Mrs. Bird.
The Best Nest is better than P.D. Eastman's other classic children's book, Go, Dogs, Go!
Nonetheless, it isn't in any way superlative.
I think most adults reading it would have to conclude that this is not a work of love, not a work that meant much personally to the author, not a work of great thought nor effort nor inspiration, but more something that was quickly cranked out in a formulaic kind of way strictly for money.
It's not a awful book, but there's not much reason to prefer this over the many wonderful children's books one could pick instead.
Mrs. Bird decides that their current nest is not the best and Mr. and Mrs. Bird go off in search of a new place to build a nest. They have a couple of mishaps and eventually end up back at their original nest. This one isn't quite as much fun as some of P.D. Eastman's other books, but still a cute picture book for young children.
Let me just start off by saying how cool it is that P.D. Eastman started writing through his collaboration with Dr. Seuss. Just like Dr. Seuss, P.D Eastman captured the essence of rhyming with grace in The Best Nest. I thought that the take-away message of appreciating what you already have and that the home is where the heart was such a beautiful message to deliver. We sometimes forget to appreciate the little things and take them for granted and I think that the moral of this story is something we should definitely instill onto the children.
This book was referenced in Orange is the New Black, season 4, episode 11, "People Persons" at around 12:25, you can see it on Suzanne's shelf.I like this book.
It's a sweet story.
Almost as sweet as "Are You My Mother".
I remember watching this as a VHS tape when I was a kid.
I always thought that the nest Mrs. Bird was building inside the church tower looked so comfy.
I'm guessing this book takes place in Maine - from page 16.
(Waldoboro, Maine).
I never noticed that as a child.5 stars because I feel like I would be betraying my childhood to give it anything less.
This book is cute.
Its about a couple who live in a cute nest.
The husband is very happy with their house but the wife was not happy.
She wanted a new nest and they went out looking for one.
The looked all around town and could not find one.
Once they found a nest they started settling in and they didnt notice that it was at a church where there was a bell.
Well that bell rang and the birds got all scared.
In the end they end up right back in their own nest with a new baby.
This book is about a couple of birds who decide to move from their bird house to another home. They try out all types of homes, and none of them seem to work out. They eventually end up back in their old home because it's "the best nest". This would be a good book to use when talking about different places people live. It would be fun to look at all of the different places the birds visit and to look at all of the different types of homes people live in and compare and contrast all of them.
This was one of the first books I ever got from a Scholastic book fair in second grade. It was a big favorite of mine, later a favorite of my children and now my grandson. Along with The Color Kittens by Margaret Wise Brown, these have become multigenerational favorites in our family.
My friend Kevin is reading a list of best children's books. I am following suite in order to discuss the books with him. By default, I give the books four-stars because they're good at what they're intended to do, which is to keep the attention of children and introduce them to literature.This book contains a trope about an unhappy wife who was wrong about wanting more than her husband currently supplies.
I love this book and always have!!!! I love how they collect certain materials for their new nest. I also love how Mr.Bird cares about everyone and everything!!!! This book is a wonderful book and it always have.
K5 read this to me today 2/22/2015. She says: 4 stars. The mom bird used to hate her nest but then she changed her mind, she did like it. That's what I like about 'the best nest', that she changed her mind.
One of my faves from my childhood. My grandmother would always read it to me.
