https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78159.The_Story_of_Civilization
I read all 11 volumes of this series when I was housebound with 3 kids (2 of whom were infants). These books saved my sanity and kept my brain from turning to mush.
Sjajna edicija za ljubitelje istorije... Dosta rada je uloženo u objavljivanje ove knjige u više tomova... mnogo znoja i neprospavanih noći (uglavnom u letnjim mesecima)... Bila sam saradnik na prevodu, raščivijavala transkripcije, radila indeks, i prelome nekoliko tomova... A onda mi se smučilo da okapavam svako leto pa sam se kod petog toma skinula s projekta... :)
The Story of Civilization (11 Volume Set), Will DurantThe Story of Civilization, by husband and wife Will and Ariel Durant, is an eleven-volume set.I. Our Oriental Heritage (1935), II.
The Life of Greece (1939), III.
Caesar and Christ (1944), IV.
The Age of Faith (1950), V.
The Age of Reason Begins (1961), VIII.
The Age of Louis XIV (1963), IX.
The Age of Voltaire (1965), X.
The Age of Napoleon (1975).تاریخ پایان نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه می سال 1990 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ تمدن (دورۀ یازده‌ جلدی به‌ انضمامِ درسهای تاریخ)؛ نویسنده: ویل دورانت؛ مترجم: فریدون بدره ای؛ تهران، فرانکلین، 1345؛ ا.
Together, they travelled a great deal, visiting many of the places they wrote about in this magisterial eleven volume (twelve if you count a companion volume on historiography which I've yet to read) history of almost everything.I don't know if it's Ariel's influence, but, unlike H.G. Wells' own, much shorter, attempt at a history of human civilization, their work is remarkable for the attention it pays to culture, domestic life and women in addition to the usual account of literate elites and their doings.The first volume, Our Oriental Heritage, Will's work, is the only disappointment.
If I had a choice of just 11 books to take into isolation for the rest of my reading days I would take The Story of Civilization by Will and Ariel Durant.
Twenty years ago I read "A World Lit Only by Fire" by William Manchester, a book based upon Manchester's reverence for Durant and his accomplishment.
I became interested in the Story of Civ then and read most of them in the next year or two.
They are 40-60 years old so they creak from time to time.
Intrigued, I went back to Durant's chapter on the same subject and spent a very pleasant afternoon reliving 500 years.
I will be reading a hundred pages per month of this series for almost ten years. I will review it more thoroughly in the year 2020. So far, I feel like I am finally getting history to some extent, and all I have read is half of the first book. So far he has covered Egypt, Babylon, Assyria, Persia, and Jerusalem. Now we are hitting India. I love it, really.
i have it on audio and i've listened up until volume 8 or 9 i think.
(I need to get back to it.) it took will durant almost 30 years to write it, and i think the final volume was published back in the 30's.
for the first time i saw history as a river -- flowing, with everything connected to everything else -- instead of just disparate facts like you learned in school, it all became part of a bigger picture.
after listening to this, thinking i knew a lot about history, it was like discovering i was blind when all along i thought i could see.
Shortly after I retired in 2004, I began reading this incredible historical journey written as a life-long project by the wonderful couple of Will and Ariel Durant.
Like Page Smith, the Durants are primary historians, meaning that they have read an amazing number of works ranging from economics, to politics, to culture, to theology, and so on.
I met so many wonderful new people in this venture (which took me two years to complete) that I found myself ordering some of those primary sources myself so that I could read even more of those persons' words.This was one of the most significant and rewarding experiences in my life.
بخش های سقراط و محاکمه و اعدام سقراط، شاگردش: افلاطون، و شاگرد افلاطون: ارسطو، و شاگرد جهانگشای ارسطو: اسکندر مقدونی.معمولاً اطلاعات ما نسبت به جهان گشایی اسکندر، از طریق منابع ایرانیه که به طرز غیر محققانه ای جانبدارانه نوشته شدن، اون هم راجع به واقعه ای که دوهزار سال قبل رخ داده و کمترین تأثیر واقعی ای روی زندگی کنونی ما نمی تونه داشته باشه.
اما انگار ویل دورانت این انتظار رو داره و پی در پی به خاطر اشتباهات ارسطو تمسخرش می کنه.
این کار ارسطو به قدری برای من جذاب بود که از فرط لذت، می خواستم کتاب رو پرت کنم بالا!
THE most brilliant book on earth, by far. Durant is a philosopher who can collectively bring parts into a whole and in a short sentence teaches you a lifetime. Highly recommended
اقرا فى الطبعة العربيةمن اصدار الهيئة العامة للكتاباعتقد انى سأقرأ هذا الموسوعة الكبيرة دومالأستلهم منها كيف يمكننا بناء نهضة و حضارة مصرية حديثةالموسوعة كبيرة جدا .. لكنى احاول ان اقرا فيها قدر استطاعتى .. بدأت قرائتها من المجلد 20 الخاص بعصر النهضة و اصلاح الفكر الدينى فى اوروبا
Every time I think of this collection, I am delightfully jealous at how the Durants could devote 45+ years to writing such an incredible undertaking.Although I found Volume I (Our Oriental Heritage) and II (The Life of Greece)somewhat distant as might be expected, they did start to engage more as time passed.
Only recently uncovered with technology and from an archaeological site where some of his men were buried.) Unclear whether I will revisit this work in its entirety, as I had spent well over three years from start until finish.
در امیل؛ روسو کار خود را با مردود دانستن شیوه های موجود تعلیم آغاز کرد، که این شیوه ها معمولاً بصورت افکار طوطی وار ،کهنه ، و فاسد بودند و هدف آنها عبارت بود از بار آوردن اطفالی مطیع و خود کار در یک اجتماع منحط، جلوگیری از استقلال تفکر و قضاوت طفل،و مسخ فکری او به طوری که بصورت یک فرد عادی با یک مشت گفته های پیش پا افتاده و تکرار های کلاسیک بار آید .چنین آموزشی کلیۀ انگیزه های طبیعی را دچار خفقان می کردو تعلیم و تربیت را بصورت غذایی در می آوردکه هر طفل آرزو داشت از آن احتراز کند.
Where do I begin? These books were the foundation of my intellectual journey. Durant was my greatest teacher.
My set is not particularly attractive on the shelf -- I bought the volumes from a used book store, and they look used.
Yet quite literally I have read every word of every volume of this set.
Although it has been at least ten years since I read this, to this date I can remember many of these accounts, and I can even "see" some of the more notable passages in my mind.
For anyone who is interested in history, and what it means to the modern mind, this is a very engaging and well-written resource.
هذا الاختصار يفقد الموسوعة الأصلية اهم ما يميزها أي : القصة نفسها ..
تلك الأجزاء و المفردات و التفاصيل الكثيرة التي تنطوي عليها الموسوعة الكاملة تحذف هنا و يصبح الكتاب معها مجرد سرد لأحداث بدون تشويق التفاصيل ..
تقضي على المتعة الحق أقول لكم .
امتلك الموسوعة ..
قمت منذ فترة بعمل خطة قرائية لإنجاز القراءة لكامل الموسوعة ..
و كانت كالتالي : 100 صفحة في اليوم ..
إذ أن كل مجلد ( النسخة التي لدي يحتوي كل مجلد منها على جزئين ) يحتوي على ما يقارب الألف صفحة ..
و لا زلت أعود إلى هذه الخطة بعد فترة من النسيان : ..
A page turner. A must read if you want to understand civilization and how it evolved. Times have not changed.
Durant is an excellent historian, and although much of what the books contained is now defunct, the majority is written very comprehensively, steering clear of controversy and unknowns in a manner of detached and objective scholarship (at least for the time period).
The authors embark on every civilization/time-period, first discussing the geographical, economic, socio-political and religious backgrounds and then start a narrative of events in chronological order.
The choice of what qualifies as important enough to be placed in a narrative of human civilization was made well and relatively corresponds to the amount of Western scholarship available with regards to the topic in discussion.
This is more than just a book, it enriches your life permanently.
It also leaves you with a nice generally useful set of history books.
This uniquely complete volume tells you all that most of us will ever need to know about Western Civilization and history until the fall of Napoleon.
Each volume stands on its own, however, and the best approach, I think, is probably just to dive into the book that sounds most interesting to you.
I think if you read one you are very likely to spend a chunk of your life with them.In a word it is amazing.
sloooooowly working my way thru audios, now avail via Overdrive and Hoopla!! not all avail on each but between them ought to *eventually* have access. Enjoy using history or philo, especially older, as pre-sleep treat, find it soothing, relaxing. Volume I: OUR ORIENTAL HERITAGE My Review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Volume II: THE LIFE OF GREECE[will post link to review of individual book here... " "]currently beginning Volume III: CAESAR AND CHRIST. (05/2017)
Even at 11 volumes, it is an overview of Western civilizaton. A reletivly easy read. given the complexity of the subject. The set takes a change of tone at volume VII. (Mr Durant has died and his wife finised the set from his notes.) The material is still quite excellent but she doesn't have the same confidence with it that he did.
Stupendous and wide-reaching, this was a labour of love that spanned decades. Hard to imagine today's writers pulling this off. The good news is that it's wonderfully written and enchanting to read. The better news? It's plentiful enough to be found cheap second-hand if you take the time to look for it.
انت قبلها ليس كأنت بعدها
I intend to download several (many?) more volumes, and although I sometimes need to break away and read something in a different genre (there is a great deal of information and detail in this book!) I know I will come back over and over until I have read it all!
It is easy to conclude (for me anyway, and probably for most History buffs) that these volumes only whet my appetite for more and it is great to have a source that I trust and enjoy reading (listening to)!
* 5 books that inspired billionaire CEO Elizabeth HolmesFrom 1935 to 1975, author Will Durant wrote 11 volumes on Western history, finishing with the Napoleonic era only because he and his wife died weeks apart.
His wife, Ariel, is a coauthor of several of the final volumes, and they both won the 1968 Pulitzer Prize for Nonfiction for the 10th in the series, "Rousseau and Revolution.""I've really been fascinated and inspired by reading books about history, because there's so much wisdom in understanding how these great people and great leaders built great organizations, led groups of people, and effected change," Holmes said.She thinks there is "very powerful" insight contained within the Durants' massive work.
4, (Age of Faith -about the medieval times from the fall of Rome to the beginning of the enlightenment).
A great book about the "dark ages" in which you find out that they are not as dark as many thought.
The philosophers, the faith, the conflicts of that time.
There is a very enlightening section of the Muslim world and their history of that time.
I learned a lot especially about the crusades and about the misguided cruelty of many who called themselves "Christians" and "Crusaders." There is a lot to learn about the development of modern Judaism and the concurrent development of anti-semitism in Europe and how it was deeply ingrained in many european countries during this time.
Started reading "Our Oriental Heritage." I am very interested in Durant's section on how civilization evolved.
Making connections to present day in how the same problems and pitfalls that brought down empires and states are bringing down the world economy.
Cliche here, history repeats itself.
It's unreal how my mind is making references.
Read over a 100 pages with delight.
The study of history is invaluable.
I read Durant's "Lessons of History" a few years ago and liked the broad perspective he presented on the conflicts that have transpired throughout history.
I intend to read all 11 volumes, every word.
Though written in the early and middle of the 20th century, and thus somewhat dated on matters whose understanding has since been heavily revised by archaeological, paleontological, genetic, and documentary discoveries, this set remains the definitive baseline history of civilization. At 11 volumes, each totalling in the neighborhood of a thousand pages, it's an intimidating read, but Durant's style is thorough and personable, telling the grand story in detail while communicating methodology well, yet rarely getting bogged down in the dryness that has plagued more specialized (though excellent) works by historians such as Alan Gardener.Highly recommended.
I am outraged that when I went to pull this magnificent, one-of-a-kind 11 volume set of books up in the search bar, the author was listed as Will Durant, when the entirety of this opus was written by both Will Durant and his wife Ariel Durant!"The Story of Civilization," written over thirty years (1935-1975) and composing 11 volumes, chronicles, truly, our entire course of human civilization, for which they were awarded the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction in 1968 and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1977.
A wonderful detailed comprehensive history of Western Civilization. I read through all 11 volumes during about a 3 year period, and have since revisited 3 volumes (Caesar and Christ, The Age of Enlightenment, The Age of Voltaire). Durant writes in a way that is compelling even in mundane periods of the past, and is quite adept at summarizing complex situations with the turning of a thoughtful witty phrase.
