https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162085.Pretty_Little_Liars
The first book in the series, Pretty Little Liars, is about five best friends - Emily, Aria, Hanna, Spencer and Alison.
During a sleepover in seventh grade, something happens, Alison has walked out the door after a fight and their best friend has disappeared.
Not just any messages though - but their secrets that vanished with their best friend and things that are going on in their lives today that they would rather keep hidden.
Unless the girls do exactly what -A says, their secrets will become everyone’s news.
Did their best friend, Alison, come back?
(I think it’s extra hilarious to visualize Chris Lilley’s Ja’mie King character in the context of this book, especially with all of the snarky things she says, because it totally applies to PLL)AlisonShe’s the queen bee who knows how to make the girls feel like they belong, but digs at them to keep them insecure and put them in their place so they’ll never challenge her.
Yeah, I have a little rant about that, but there are things you do out of the goodness of your heart and not just because you want recognition for; which is why people like Spencer get on my nerves.
It really reminded me of some of the R.L. Stine and Christopher Pike books that I read as a teen, and that's definitely a good thing.
I didn't feel like reading and watching the same series was redundant, it felt more like they complimented each other.
I have to say though, that I didn't get enough answers with this one, I'll definitely be checking out the next book.This series follows a group of four girls that fell out of touch after the disappearance of their mutual friend.
Finally our fourth heroine Spencer is occupied being jealous of her sister and planning to steal her current boyfriend, the stupidly named English-Korean Wren, as well as talking about such mysterious acronyms as Aps, GPAs, VPs & JVs.Once everyone’s teen-drama problems are set up (glamorous issues only, none of them ever has a “pimple” or anything dirty like that) they meander about mentioning products, brands and shops every 4th line, most of which I am unaware of and/or not interested in.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/A week or so ago one of my new friends on Goodreads asked what was taking me so long to finish Pretty Little Liars. Truth is, I finished it in one day waaaaaaaaaaaay long ago, but my reaction was . . . . so I never got around to writing a review. Want a sneak peak into the world of Mitchell and Kelly and how to tell if they didn’t like a book???? Yep. Not a note, not a highlight, not a comment, nada. This time the problem stems from on
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/A week or so ago one of my new friends on Goodreads asked what was taking me so long to finish Pretty Little Liars.
In case you don’t already know (since there are like eleventy trillion of these books and also a television series), Pretty Little Liars is the story of a group of girls whose frenemy, Alison, disappeared during a slumber party.
However, since I’m now 1,000 years old, reading/watching Pretty Little Liars makes me feel more than a bit like this .
"A" knows secrets only Alison knew and trust me, these girls have plenty of them.
Despite being only 16, these girls have more skeletons in their closets than the cast of "Desperate Housewives".
The girls have to confront secrets from their past while dealing with issues of their present.I liked this book perhaps more than I'm willing to admit.
The girls are each different and have their own personalities.
And Spencer is the competetive over-achiever who is fruitlessly trying to please her parents.I liked all of the girls, despite their faults.
I'm not sure whether or not I like the TV show or book series more.
Pretty Little Liars tells the story of Aria, Spencer, Emily, and Hanna, four girls whose best friend, Alison, disappears one night during a slumber party.
Aria spends two years abroad in Iceland, Spencer immerses herself in her academic and extracurricular actives, Emily focuses on swimming, and Hanna loses weight and becomes the new "it" girl at their posh private school, Rosewood Day. Three years later, each of them begin receiving ominous text messages from someone named A, who threatens to expose their secrets—secrets only Alison knows.
Four best friends, Aria, Hanna, Emily and Spencer, are separated by the death of their friend Alison DeLaurentis, as she has mysteriously disappeared.
All four friends soon drifted apart, but were brought back together when they start receiving mysterious text messages from A.
Aria Montgomery is a free spirit; she became best friends with Alison, Spencer, Emily and Hanna and made documentaries about their friendship.
They both decided that in the summer of seventh they would transform themselves into glamorous, beautiful and totally popular people and they would be best friends for life.
Emily soon finds out that she is attracted to girls, and when a mysterious text message she receives from A.
I've been a long-time fan of the tv show so I thought I'd give this book series a try.I don't know if it was because I've seen all those things happening in the tv series, in a much more lengthening and stretching way but this book lacked the thrill the tv show sometimes gives me.
I don't mean they're different looking, they're different characters, different personalities and that was what mainly let me down..The plot was unraveling fast enough and that's the only good thing, although that was practically the first episode of the tv show, as far as the mystery goes.
And I know everything."Once upon a time, five girls were friends: Alison, the ringleader, Aria, Emily, Hanna, and Spencer.
Aria is flirting with the English Teacher; Emily is hanging out more with the new neighbor girl, Hanna has a dirty way of keeping thin, and Spencer is out for her perfect sister's boyfriend.
I'm 28 years old, and I read a bunch of contemporary teen lit back in the day.
If you can get past the language, drugs, alcohol, and sex, then these aren't that bad of books.
But nonetheless I did enjoy this book.Pretty Little Liars is the story of four ex-best friends slowly coming together in the wake of being terrorized by the mysterious "A" after the disappearance of their friend Alison years earlier that effectively split up their friendships.All the girls have secrets of their own, that the others (with the exception of Ali) knew about - Aria is hiding from her mother that her father is cheating, Spencer is in constant competition with her older sister (right down to competing for boyfriends), Emily struggles with her sexual orientation and Hanna is body dysmorphic.
Heathers meets April Fool's Day in this strange yet intriguing story of secrets, lies and gossip in a modern world.
I used to see copies of this book everywhere, from public libraries to at school, but I never really had any interest in reading it.
Alison, a preppy school student, has gone missing, and the mystery of where she might be has haunted everyone...
Not afraid to question the dark side of the glamorous popular elite, Pretty Little Liars can sometimes be a strange yet worthwhile book with some likable characters and a decent plot.
So I thought I'd try reading the Pretty Little Liars book series, by Sara Shepard.
There's supposed to be 12 in total, but after reading the first one, I don't think I could take 11 more.The TV show has good writers.
All the hair colors are changed, which is good, because nearly everyone in the book is blonde or some shade of blonde or has blonde highlights or blonde tones...yeah.There were a lot of references to classic literature and music, which seemed inserted to let us know the characters were better educated than they let on.
Maybe it was Shepard's attempt to get her readers to read more.
Who would want to read a book with a doll on the cover?
Pretty Little Liars might start off with the characters in their middle grade years, but before long, they’ve already bloomed into full fledged high school students with personalities of their own.
Hanna, Spencer, Aria and Emily were all nobodies, until Allison found them.
The only secret the girls didn’t realize was that Allison was the only reason they became friends in the first place.
Without her, the girls have nothing in common.
Whoever A is, she’s definitely someone who clearly knows all the girls’ secrets.
But to me it read more like a shopping list than a novel: "He rubbed his fingers over the cuff of a hung-up pair of Joseph trousers.
She slid her Tiffany Elsa Peretti heart ring up and down her finger .
Emily struggled to operate her Nokia." Even when a body is identified by a ring, it's not just any ring: "She remembered Ali's white-gold initialed ring.
Ali's parents had gotten it for her at Tiffany's .
Emily's questions about her sexual identity, Aria's infatuation with a teacher, Spencer's attraction to her older sister's boyfriend--such issues are all eminently worthy of serious fictional consideration.
That was pretty good*raising eyebrows*Sometimes a little unrealistic and overdramatic, but on the whole it was just the book I needed during a test week: light, funny and short :) 3.5 stars
I was a huge fan of the show...that being said there are differences in the book. the characters looking different is the main one. it was a quick read and i really enjoyed it
Pretty Little Liars by Sara Shepard I absolutely LOVE the Pretty Little Liars TV show, and when that show first started i wasn't a crazy reader, but i bought the first 8 books of this series. As the years went on i never thought i'd actually read them. I'll admit its taken me SO long to finally pick up this book and separate my TV thoughts from the book, but I'm so glad i picked it up!I was so pleasantly surprised by this book! I really enjoyed it.I loved how each chapter was focused on a diffe
I absolutely LOVE the Pretty Little Liars TV show, and when that show first started i wasn't a crazy reader, but i bought the first 8 books of this series.
I really enjoyed it.I loved how each chapter was focused on a different character, that's really unique and so fun, it also allows you not to get bored of one storyline for too long.The only things i didn't like about this book was that the 4 main girls really threw themselves at guys.
I hope this changes as the books go on and the characters develop :)Im quite excited to read the second book of the series, and hope i'll want to continue on with the entire extremely long series!
RESEÑA EN LEE.SUEÑA.VUELA  Muy juvenil, muy yankee, bastante pobre escrito pero aún así con gancho, entretenido y ligero.
A mí me spoilearon quién es A en la serie, pero de todas formas me gusta mucho el concepto y lo disfruto *procuren no spoilearme más nada, por fiiiiiiis, que vi solo dos temporadas y media más o menos.
Y algún día la quiero retomar!*Si miran la serie, este libro entero es el episodio piloto.
Eso me re intriga, ¡de todo un libro hicieron un solo episodio!Sé que son como mil libros pero la seguiría a la historia.
But the four remaining girls — Spencer Hastings, Hanna Marin, Aria Montgomery and Emily Fields — continue as shallow as ever; indeed, no hermit was ever as devoted to God as these girls are to Abercrombie & Fitch.
Occupy Wall Street couldn’t come up with cruder poster children for the evils of economic inequality.Soon after the girls embark on their junior year, Allison’s corpse turns up, but the quartet begin receiving threatening text messages from “A.” Has Allison’s ghost returned for revenge?
Emily, Hanna, Aria and Spencer — especially Emily — have terrible secrets that would ruin their lives.
With a more likeable group of girls, I know I could well have enjoyed this book.
Okay, this series? Like a drug! I picked the first one up on a whim while at Target (more proof that if I go anywhere that sells books, you'll find me picking up one. or twelve.) and bam! I'm totally hooked. I'm hoping to read the rest of the books that are currently out while I'm on vacation.
Pretty Little Liars (Pretty Little Liars #1), Sara Shepard
Once I brought up my viewing of the show people told me I should read the books because the are "better", so out of curiosity I did.
It's funny to see these WASP girls get their due for being the most interchangeable clique of friends on television.
It's the same as the Gossip Girl books (which I did read) or The Clique or anything in that genre.The characters have the same names and overall story lines as their television counterparts, with some improvements all around, but what was semi-interesting and enjoyable there is just dull here.
This has been on my list for a while, and I'm glad to have finally read it, but I guess it just isn't really my thing. The whole rich-girl-does-bad-things storyline feels a bit overused and the part that actually is the most annoying is that there is no solution at the end of this to the mystery that is meant to be central to the book.I guess I'm just not the target market.
Nobody knows what happened to her, but now 3 years later, her 4 closest friends start receiving strange messages.
And if Alison really is back, what does she want?I watched the first season of this as a TV show and really liked it, but never got around to reading the books.
I couldn’t really remember much about the TV show, but as I was reading through this book, something would happen and I would think ‘I remember that now!’ but because I couldn’t remember it initially, this helped keep the mystery in the story.I have to say that I was quite shocked by what the girls got up to in this story though.
Boy, this is total teen drama. Love it!! These girls are up to their eyeballs in things more complicated than when I was in high school. Think I'm going to have to carry on in the series and start the second book.
WOW! I give this five stars on account of its sheer unputdownableness. I'm quitting life for the next few day and devoting all my time to reading the rest of this series.
I can't believe that I put off this book for 2 years thinking that it wouldn't be worth it to read the series!
I know right, I'm too late for this hype.
But seriously, the whole ride with this book has offered me so much fun and at the same time was very frightening to read.
It will really make you itch to know who the f* is A!!!
In addition to that, honestly, at first, I really thought this book was going to be about some stupid stuck-up girls and their annoying drama, but I was waaaaaay wrong.
This book is amazing and totally addicting!
I enjoyed this a lot, except for the looks of the girls it related to the show quite a lot! I'm definitely continuing this series.
For further explanation, please keep reading.Pretty Little Liars has always been one of those series I was in doubt about everyone liking.
I made sure I stayed at least ten feet from every PLL book at all times.Then it hit me one day.
I'm still confused about how that twisted logic was appealing at the time.I owned all 8 PLL books.
I don't know.Here I am today, a quarter of the way through the second book and I still don't know why I even bought it.Pretty Little Liars is a twelve-book series revolving around five girls: Spencer, Aria, Hanna, and Emily.
