https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229823.Barefoot_Gen_Volume_Two
عظيمة جدًا.
This is a worthy sequel to Barefoot Gen, Volume One: A Cartoon Story of Hiroshima. Through the experience of Gen you see the horror lived by the author and others when the bomb fell. There is death all around and the trials of the living are ghastly. There are gangs stealing what little food is is. People are desperate, but still maintain their pecking order. This book demonstrates the ability of the graphic novel format to convey a powerful story.
Not nearly as strong as volume one, the second volume of this epic tale describes the immediate aftermath of the A Bomb landing in Hiroshima in 1945.The first volume ended with unspeakable horror as young Gen survives the A Bomb blast, only to look on helplessly as his father, baby brother, and baby sister are burned alive in the city wide fires.
This second volume covers the next few days, as Gen tries to help his mother and newborn sister find enough rice to survive.
The first twenty pages are the most jolting and horrific, as the author gives you a parade of horrors, burn victims, rotting corpses, maggots crawling in living flesh, and other things even more horrible that are caused by radiation sickness.
The bomb has destroyed Hiroshima, and only Gen and his pregnant mother have survived.
The depictions of those who survived the initial blast are hard to look at -- people with their clothes blown off, with skin hanging down like it's melting off their bodies, wounds crawling with maggots, flesh sliding off the bone when someone grasps an arm or leg, survivors treating their loved ones with pulverized human bones in hopes of helping them.
I had already learned of this from reading Pachinko, but Nakazawa's illustrations really hammer it home with the death of Mr. Pak's father, as no Japanese doctor would "waste his time" on treating a Korean.
الجزء الثاني من سلسة جن الحافي وتبدأ الأحداث بعد إلقاء القنبلة النووية على هيروشيما وموت أخيه وأخته وأبيه ويبقى مع أمه ليبدأ عذاب جديد، عذاب التشرد والجوع والمهانة بين الناس.الرسومات عظيمة والأحداث مؤلمة جداً ولا يقدر على اظهارها الا أحدا مثل الكاتب قد عاش ويلاتها..
I think it was an interesting read. I'll write a review on my blog soon. So expect that on monday :3 <3
This may be an accurate portrayal of what Hiroshima was like at that point, but that doesn't keep it from getting sort of old after a while - or maybe, fairly quickly.Nakazawa's drawing is adequate for the purpose of telling the story, but I think it's fair to say that no one ever read his books for the fantastic art.
But I have to say that Nakazawa's experience as a Hiroshima survivor gave him an interesting story to tell, but in his telling it, neither his plotting nor his drawing rises above a level I'd call crude.
Barefoot Gen vol.
This Japanese graphic novel focuses upon a WWII-era Hiroshima family's devastation after the explosion of the atomic bomb.Nakazawa's illustrations are done in the very cartoony, old-school anime style.
That's what makes it even more jarring to see the characters enduring unspeakable suffering.
Don't be fooled by the cutsey character design and think you're in for an easy read.
Think maggots crawling in open wounds, skin peeling off limbs, and a little boy carrying his family members' bones around in a bucket.
Barefoot Gen is a tremendous resource for driving home the human costs of war.
It is essential reading for peace and nuclear disarmament advocates.
An intense visual representation of the horrors the atomic bomb unleashed on Japanese citizens. Probably the most powerful book I have ever read on the devastating and inhumane effects of the atom bomb. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
I think with any story that is painful to tell, the listener must also be in the mood to hear said painful stories.
I am not saying that we must be silent, but I was listening to a podcast of a woman whose father was a survivor of a Nazi concentration camp and he would not tell his story to her.
Her father said once I open that door, it cannot be closed.
If you are thinking of reading this series, be ready to open the door or leave it closed and walk away.
This is the hardest piece of manga I've ever read in my life. It's so gut wrenching, so realistic. You cant stop yourself from biting your lips with anger while reading it... Everything is so real in it, you can almost taste it. A master piece indeed. You also get to see the other side of the Japanese culture, the cold, unyielding, pretentious side of it... How hard was it to live as a Japanese person all those years in that rigid culture, one only wonders...
القنبلة الذرية كانت جحيما علي من مات وجحيما لمن عاش وجعلت كثيرا من الناس يبكون دموع حزن ومعاناة في كل مكانالجزء الثاني من سلسلة "جن الحافي" العظيمة يروي مابعد القاء القنبلة علي هيروشيما ...الجحيم الذي عاشه الموتي والمعاناه التي عاشها الناجونعمل عظيم ومؤلم ءبسبب القنبلة الذرية تعذب من مات ويتعذب من يعيش
مؤلمة جدًا. الحرب هي الجحيم على الأرض. واقع شديد البشاعة.
Wow...This was a tough read. But, really eye opening.
مانجا رأئعة مليئة بالمواقف الإنسانية, لا يعيبها إلا الترجمة السيئة
Paling ngeri saat badai lalat karena banyak belatung pada mayat-mayat di jalan. (view spoiler)[Tambahan lagi saat ada yang ususnya keluar dari perut, meletusnya nanah di wajah, kulit yang terkelupas (anjirlah, digambarinnya kayak kulit apel yang dikelupas), belatung di mana-mana, pokoknya ngeri banget!!! (hide spoiler)]
https://sustherlibros.wordpress.com/2...
Barefoot Gen: The Day After, the second book in the Barefoot Gen series, picks up right where its predecessor left off.
Nakazawa left many of the horrors of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima for this second volume.
Though there are many journeys and themes in this volume, it seemed more cohesive than Volume 1.
The severity of the situation has set in for both the reader and Gen, and this gives significance to every event, leaving little room for comic mischief.
Though the two are very similar in style and story, I'd say The Day After is a slight improvement on the previous volume.
un manga que sigue mostrándonos todas las barbaridades que sufrieron las victimas de la bomba atómica. Sus consecuencias, y si eso no fuera suficiente, los américanos los aprovecharon como "experimento. En este tomo se nota mucho más el tono anti belicista, americanos e imperio nipón que tiene el autor. La verdadera lucha de estas personas comenzó después, y fue para la supervivencia.Más sobre mi opinión en la reseña del bloghttp://almalectora.blogspot.com.es/20...﻿
Holy Shit! Keji Nakazawa doesnt pull any punches here. In fact, after this i kinda feel like youre aren qualifed to determine what "pulling punches" MEANS before reading this. That said the comic is rather one note, at times just piling horrendous situations on top of eachother. I also found that that the story reduced some people too monsters in a crude way that didnt gel with me (the Children at Gens mothers friends house). Leaving at a posetive note, the story is compelling and hard hitting, with great and concise illustrations. I found the first book better though.
I didn't feel strongly about this graphic novel at all, whether hate or love. I didn't really connect with the characters, not feeling emotional about them or their plight, despite the topic being incredibly hard-hitting and emotional. Was this because of their cartoon design? Perhaps.But still, not my favourite.
Tough to read, due to its graphic nature, but it's history. Important, living history.
He later recounted his vivid memories through his manga character Gen.---Gen, his mother, and his newborn sister have survived the bombing, whereas his father, older sister, and younger brother are killed after being trapped under their collapsed house and burned alive while Gen and his mother struggled futilely to free them.
Across the city, Gen encounters the horrors of the bomb.
I hope world leaders truly know the power and horror of the sabers they rattle.--- TLDR: This would be a good brief for Trump on the true nature of atomic weapons because it has cartoon pictures.
It's been awhile since I read   Barefoot Gen, Volume One: A Cartoon Story of Hiroshima   -- and there is a reason for that. You can't read Barefoot Gen for lengthy periods of time and probably shouldn't read it before bed. Despite being a cartoon, Volume 2 is just as heart-wrenching and disturbing as the first.The disturbing parts are very heavy in the first half of this book, bodies in water tanks swelling like watermelons, bursting stomachs full of gas, eating ground-up human bones and picking
Barefoot Gen, Volume One: A Cartoon Story of Hiroshima
You can't read Barefoot Gen for lengthy periods of time and probably shouldn't read it before bed.
Despite being a cartoon, Volume 2 is just as heart-wrenching and disturbing as the first.The disturbing parts are very heavy in the first half of this book, bodies in water tanks swelling like watermelons, bursting stomachs full of gas, eating ground-up human bones and picking maggots off of friends to name a few.
However, good human traits are also amplified, things like selflessness, love, determination, strength and family bonds.This is a good book, and also horrible.
4.5 Stars!“As it has always been, it is the powerless, nameless, ordinary people who die in wars waged by a handful of men in power.”This is the second instalment in the ten part “Barefoot Gen” series.
Horror and comedy clash messily in this gristly first-hand account of Hiroshima.
From the opening scenes of people’s faces melting off as they cry out for water, this obviously makes for an intense and uncomfortable reading experience.
The art work isn’t always great, but the sheer power of the story is more than enough to make for truly compelling reading.
The first volume of Barefoot Gen focused on Gen's life before and as the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.
This second volume focuses on Gen's struggle to find his way (with his mother and newborn sister) right after the bomb is dropped.Gen struggles to accept that most of his family was killed in the bombing, but it's amazing to see how Gen, through everything, continues to be a boy of very strong character.
He goes out of his way to prove that his mother is innocent when someone accuses her of theft.There are difficult parts.
The two episodes that touched me the most in this second book are: the young girl who wants to kill herself because she won't be able to dance again; how hard it is to rely on others' kindness.Gen finds this young girl, crying and looking for her mother in the rubbles.
Her face has been badly burned but not knowing it, she asks Gen:"Am I pretty, really?
Because being beautiful matters more than dancing beautifully?The way Gen's family is treated by the mother's best friend's stepmother made me boil.
The humiliation is unbearable (keep in mind that Gen's mother uses this rice to be able to feed her new born baby!).
Horrifying.
Picks off right where the first book ends.
If pre-atomic bombing Japan scared me, this one has scarred me for life.
Whether it be the empire's apathy towards the aftereffects of war or the pathetic condition of civilians/immigrants (Korean and Chinese), this heartbreaking, semi-autobiographical tale manages to convey it all in absolute lucidity.
I cannot even imagine, for the life of me, having to live with the kind of horrors that natives of Hiroshima did after the bomb - watching the lives they so carefully moulded literally become rubble on a warm sunny morning.
As Keiji puts it, ever so masterfully, " The atomic bomb created hell for the dying, and hell for the living.
An account of surviving Hiroshima as experienced by a young boy, his mother and premature baby sister. I value personal accounts of historical events and this small graphic representation is intense but perfectly balanced with reflection. The visceral descriptions of radiation sickness, universal human nature, gangs of orphans, hope and anger remind us that to win at all costs is often inhumane and shortsighted. If only we could ban the bomb.
This is a great book because it puts you in a place where you want to know more about what’s going to happen next.This book is also a great book because the way people interact with one another, as well as the point of view people that they have with each other and those unknown around them.It also keeps the reader entertained and interested
