https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16171291-the-silent-wife
At the moment, I am wearing my book reviewing outfit of jeans and a t-shirt, but soon I will change into some sweatpants to take a nap on the couch under the window that looks out onto the sprawling landscape of my driveway.
If you could get through this review, I suppose you could get through the book.
A toxic marriage, husband and wife narrators, and unlikable (for most readers) main characters, but to me this is where the similarities end.Setting: Chicago in Autumn.The Players: "Him" Todd (the husband) -A despicable man in his mid-40s, a perpetual cheater who has zero self-awareness, and uses his childhood traumas as an excuse to do whatever he pleases no matter who it hurts.
I loved to hate Todd in THE SILENT WIFE.
I hated that he was real, but sadly enough I have met more men like him than I care to mention, and I loved Jodi!
you are free to judge them, like or dislike them, but to dismiss the antihero in literature is to deprive yourself of about half of the world's published texts.the comparisons between these books pretty much begin and end with the observation that this is a novel told in alternating narratives of a couple who have been together a long time, who together have a perfectly psychologically symbiotic but ultimately toxic relationship, but individually are…not the best people.but nothing else is really sticking, comparison-wise.
and they have co-existed this way for twenty years: he gets to sleep around and still come home to a spotless house and a gourmet meal, she gets to lead a life with all the fine things she covets and gets to feel useful in taking care of a man who needs to be taken care of.
Sorry, but this is not a chilling psychological thriller. It's a literary exploration of what happens when people get comfortable and let life just happen to them. Parts of it were actually quite good. But sticking the phrase "a few short months are all it will take to make a killer out of her" on the first page doesn't make a book a thriller, not when there's nothing else sustaining the suspense through the majority of the book. It's not bad, but it's definitely been mis-marketed. Plenty of psychology. Little to no thrill.(review copy received via NetGalley)
I was in the mood for something dark and twisted and stumbled upon couple of articles where this book was described as the "next big thing" and "this summers Gone Girl".
But the thing that got me was this:“With a spare, elegant, and deft hand, she paints two dueling psychological portraits of longtime live-in lovers who become putative killer and hapless victim in a tale that no one is likely to forget any time soon.Sounds good, doesn't it?Some of the reviews said it was just as good as Gone Girl, others said it was even better.
After I read the book, I felt tricked and cheated.
Jodi and Todd take turns telling the story of the final months of their crumbling marriage.
Reasons for the low rating: (1) It was NOT a psychological thriller.
A thriller would mean something “thrilling” happens during the book, right?
(2) Stop comparing books to Gone Girl.
As always, apples and orangutans.
The book wasn’t completely horrible – I was able to get through it pretty quickly.
However, it had some real lulls in the action with page upon page spent describing the most mundane activities and the big “twists and turns” at the end were very “meh”.
Those are the key ingredients for a 2 star rating.
Update: This is a $1.99 Kindle special today --a great psychological mystery thriller --right to the very end of the book. If you have missed this one -- its GOOD!!!I read this book yesterday ---I thought it was a 'wonderful-creepy' -(even had me laughing) -mystery!I tried to imagine my husband coming home night after night for 20 years --KNOWING the guy was 'having-his-fun' from time to time on the side --and never talking about it --living with it --Cooking him fabulous dinners...He walks in the door:"Honey I'm home"..."Shall I pour the wine"? FUN BOOK!
Despite some superficial similarities -- The Silent Wife IS NOT Gone Girl.
So if you loved Gone Girl and come seeking the same kind of tawdry, illicit, messed up thrills and shocking plot twists here you're probably going to be disappointed.
But Jesus, if you're like me, and crave that slow inexorable build to a very bad destination that you can see waiting on the horizon -- absolutely unavoidable -- then this book is for you.Also, I was pleased to discover that The Silent Wife is a modern noir piece with its roots firmly planted in the old black and white film noirs of the 1940's.
This book contains one of the biggest dirtbags I've ever encountered in fiction. His name is Todd.Here are some examples of what dirtbag activities he enjoys:(view spoiler)[ Having sex with women, including his pregnant soon-to-be wife – while knowing full well that he likely is HIV+. (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ Hitting a pregnant woman. (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ Having sex with his best friend's 22-year-old daughter. (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ Cheating on the woman he's been with fo
His name is Todd.Here are some examples of what dirtbag activities he enjoys:(view spoiler)[ Having sex with women, including his pregnant soon-to-be wife – while knowing full well that he likely is HIV+.
She practices in her home.A lot of people claim that Jodi is a doormat because she chooses to stay with Todd, even though she knows he is a cheater, and cheats on her a lot with a lot of different women.
It definitely isn't the best way to deal with things, but I could understand why she was doing it.A lot of people were angry upon reading the book because they were upset that Jodi (view spoiler)[ did not marry Todd.
This was a good psychological thriller but it might not be for everyone. "The Silent Wife" has already been reviewed to death so I will just say ONLY read this book if you can tolerate unlikeable characters! Todd and Jodi are horrible. It is mainly told in third person. For me this was a good thing. If it was first person I don't think I would have liked this book at all.If you can tolerate horrible characters definitely read it. It's a descent story that twists and turns and has an ending that is hard to predict.
BR with Her Majesty La-Lionne, aka Space Giver~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Merriam-Webster dictionary defines thriller as  -a work of fiction or drama designed to hold the interest by the use of a high degree of intrigue, adventure, or suspense (synonyms: cliff-hanger, hair-raiser, suspenser, nail–biter) I don't know about other people, but IMO, this book has all the components of a psychological thriller. It is interesting, suspenseful and had me on the edge of my seat, especially
Yes, the characters felt robotic, but I prefer to think they settled into a comfortable routine in which he comes home from a hard day at work (view spoiler)[where he lusts after his secretary (hide spoiler)] and his partner greets him with drinks, a hot meal and very little conversation.The characters are complicated and come with a lot of baggage.
(hide spoiler)]There are as many interpretations to all the events in this book (Jodi's older brother abusing her younger brother, Todd's violent father and his loss of innocence as he was forced to hit him in order to defend his beloved mother etc.) as there are opinions on it so I won't exhaust them.
The Silent Wife is a disturbing book.
And yet I certainly found The Silent Wife compelling, reading on, wanting to see where this train wreck of a story would go.
Todd is a cheater and Jodi knows this.
When she becomes pregnant the deal is cinched and Todd must find a way to leave Jodi.
Sounds like many a book you might have read.
There’s more here, much more and Harrison plots and tells it well.As many have noted Harrison's book has been compared to Gone Girl by Gillian Flynn which IMO does a disservice to The Silent Wife.
The ending wasn't a surprise as many I know have said, yes it was out of left field, but not completely.
I really wanted to love this book, but I didn't.
I didn't care for any of them, and then the side shit with Jodi and her shrink was odd and then to find out at the end what her brother did...
I really think I was generous with the 3 stars here because I don't think it was amazing and I built myself up to believe it was more than what it ended up being.
Maybe this is deliberate and is meant to represent the character in some way, and indeed it does seem this is a reasonable interpretation of Jodi.
Raskolnikov is not a likable character either.
But Raskolnikov is an INTERESTING character.
She too is deluded, but her delusions aren't interesting--she's driven by delusions of normalcy.
As the book went on, Jodi's character opened up a bit, but there were still a lot of loose threads, and she wound up not really having to face up to anything.
This is a book set in Chicago, with American characters.
I only read this because my reception at work brought it in for me so i felt i had to. Normally i dont think i would pick up a book with that title or cover (yes i do judge them). I hated both Jodi and Todd. It annoyed me that I didnt like either of them yet i couldnt stop reading the book. I found it really addictive and i dont know why. I liked the story and how it ended. It was intense at times.
I loved the alternating voices between him (Todd) and her (Jodi).Yes, Todd is a despicable character (as many men and their behaviors are); he's a serial cheater; a slime ball; but even he realized--just a wee bit I believe--that it finally caught up with him.
In the end, he learned that he couldn't.If nothing else, this book should be required reading for all young men who think like Todd, that they are cool, slick, and can get away with cheating--that there is always something better, more exciting just around the corner, the grass is always greener.I LOVED THIS BOOK!
I do not know how Harrison has done it but she has reached inside the mind to those dark deep well hidden depths we all have and brings it all out for the reader.This story is that Jodi Brett who has lived with Todd Gilbert for over twenty years, she is a psychologist and her common law husband is a property developer, knows all about his faults and has accepted them.
Really he is a lover not a fighter and Natasha his young love has to push him all the way.What makes this book so brilliant as a thriller is that we see it through the eyes of Jodi and Todd in alternating voices we see how they live and feel to them attempting to move on.
It was intriguing enough to keep me reading and invested in the characters, but I felt like I spent the entire book waiting for something big, shocking, game changing to happen.
The rest of this review is going to be full of spoilers - so don't read if you haven't read the book.
The fact that Jodi didn't think she'd be seen as questionable or a suspect until Todd had already been killed.
What I liked about the book.....The ambiguity.
We never really knew who was responsible in the end for Todd's death.
How Jodi's character changed from beginning to end.
I was expecting a completely different story than the one I felt was described in the blurb.From the very beginning we know Jodi will kill Todd.
I'm guessing what the author was counting on to keep the reader turning pages were the events leading up to his murder, but since I never got there, I can't say for certain.What I can say is the comparison to Gone Girl is a terrible one.
His waffling between Jodi and his lover, Natasha, made him interesting for a few pages.
I wanted to stab her every time she was on the page, and then stab Todd for choosing such a vapid lover.
3.5 stars !This was a taut psychological thriller that was well-researched and with a slow unfolding of the dynamics of two very narcissistic individuals....the wife (a psychotherapist with obsessive tendencies) and the husband (immature businessman) and the slow death of their marriage that was fragile and empty to begin with.Both characters were quite unlikable but they were infused with a complexity that compelled you to read forward and see what would happen next.
However, in this book it was much more forgivable as the dark unfolding was fascinating, morbid and really quite shocking.
I love books set in Chicago, one of my favorite cities.
The Silent Wife and her common-law husband Todd live on Chicago's beautiful lakefront in an expensive condo.
Todd is a wealthy business owner, who likes to stray like the tomcat he is, while Jodi quietly accepts, denies, and ignores his behavior.
From page 1 we know she ends up killing his cheating ass, but we don't know how or when.
There is not much action or dialogue, just a very suspenseful and methodical revealing of their individual personalities and psyches.
There is more here than meets the eye.
Great book.
At one point my boyfriend threatened to throw the book out the window because even though he is nothing like Todd, I was so upset with Todd that I unleashed on the boyfriend about how stupid guys can be by taking a good thing for granted.
Then I started to focus on Jodi’s behavior, and how she basically allowed this to happen.
Needless to say, the relationship was screwed up, but it somehow worked out for them.
I loved this book until the end, but the end did not settle right with me.
I hoped, wanted, and maybe even expected… something… more...
Calling this akin to Gone Girl makes some sense: we have dual points-of-view, we have a husband and wife in a "meh" marriage with problems, and there's a murder (the wife, Jodi, actually says that she never thought she'd be a killer somewhere in the early stages of the book).
I read 30% (per my Kindle's reckoning) and gave up.Where this differed from Gone Girl for me was that I didn't care about the situation or Jodi and Todd.
While in GG I didn't like them, the plot was interesting enough to bring me along.
Plus, not liking them was part of the author's intent.
I don't mind a book that's a slow burn.
The Girls by Emma Cline was one of my favorites because I found the characters fascinating.
But The Silent Wife just wasn't interesting enough to keep ME interested.
Jodi was so bland and naive!
It was hard for me to feel sorry for her.
I'm fine with the blurb giving away the ending, I just wanted to go along for the ride to see how it came to that ending.
But the ride was slow and a major disappointment.
Comparing it to Gone Girl is a huge insult.
I did wish that the narrative pacing was more even for the reveal and building up to that point, but I understood what the author was trying to do in that steady build toward Jodi's and Todd's respective fates (notice I'm trying to tap dance around events because I don't want to spoil it).In the end, it's a read that was worth the journey and I appreciated it - for plotting, for the development, and for the respective reveal leaving my head turning even after the last few minutes of the audio.
I originally gave this book four stars which seemed generous based on my overall annoyance with the book and it's two main characters.
I spent 80% of the book getting to know the characters and then all of a sudden the big plot twist happens and it was completely rushed and not very believable.
Therefore, I had to change my mind and I only gave it three stars.
Oh, and here is another complaint- Throughout the entire book the author references Jodi's experiences "at university".
The book takes place in Chicago, so I think the author should not have been using the phrase "while at university".
In this case, from the very beginning, it felt more like a 3rd party was relating each of the sides of the story than that we were actually seeing things from Jodi's and Todd's perspectives.
I have to admit that I felt kind of bad for him at times, because his new grass may be young and green and pretty to look at, but if you rub it the wrong way, it's got sharp edges.
Anyway, this was a pretty good story, and it definitely had its ups and downs, but I don't think it really compares with Gone Girl.
Jodi & Todd's marriage has hit a rough spot.
Todd has been cheating on Jodi, his cliched 20-year-old mistress is pregnant (and the daughter of his best friend).
Dean, his best friend from childhood, the father of his mistress, has no reason to be so upset with Todd, just because Todd's now sleeping with his 20-year--old daughter.
Todd and Jodi are both shocked when they find out that legally, Jodi is entitled to nothing from Todd since they never married.
She and Todd have code names for all her patients so they can make fun of the patients without Jodi telling him their names.
Compelling, insightful and superbly written - THE SILENT WIFE is one of those rare books I simply couldn't put down. Full of black humour and painfully acute observations, it's a thriller, the dissection of a relationship, and an unflinching examination of life - all rolled into one.
A tightly wound psychological drama that I read in one sitting. Recommend.
