https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/738234.Batouala
If the Heinemann edition didn't include an introduction this probably would have been a two-star rating. The introduction provides perspective to the time period and the author's intention helping to appreciate the work a little more. It's still not a very good book.
I'd highly recommend reading the Edward Hayes article, "On Reciprocity: René Maran and Alain Locke" (it's in the book The Practice of Diaspora) alongside this text. Much of the historical context and significance is lost and so it seems to at first be a rather insignificant text. In fact, that this text won the Prix Goncourt and claimed to give readers direct access to the "African mind and way of life" (as a véritable romain nègre) had significant impact on the novel's reception and the reader's understanding of the presentation of its characters.
Though Maran was a Black man from the French colony of Martinique, the story remains an outsider-observer's narration of the internal, cultural daily life, inner thoughts, and motivations of (maybe Gbaya?) people in a Central African village, based on years living there as a member of the French colonial service (!).
This challenge is presented straight forward enough however in the gem of a preface by an author overwhelmed and disgusted by the genocidal horrors of the French rubber-plantation-enslavement colonial system.
I'm not sure what to make of this book. None of the characters were consistently sympathetic, and overall it seemed so pedantic in tone. But I can see for the time it was written it was startling in it's open portrayal of anti-colonialism among Africans. And there are moments when the characters' thought processes are amazingly clear, taking me inside someone else's thoughts and fears.
La lenteur du récit prédomine...
Admired both by Hemingway and early African nationalists, Batouala was the first novel by a writer of African descent to win France's highest literary prize. Despite coming out in 1921 it contains many passages of unabashedly vitriolic anti-colonial sentiment as well as some explicit scenes. Unique and intriguing, but much more so if you know some context before you read it.
I read this in French for my graduate class and had to try to analyze it in terms of being the first novel of the Negritude Movement. All that aside, I liked the imagery and interesting language mix of French and African.
Very touching story.
"... when you have read it, you have seen Batouala, and that makes it a great novel." Ernest Hemingway
