https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69617.A_Savage_Place
But back then they disappointed me, for they made me think less of one of my beloved heroes, whereas now they just add complexity to the portrait of an admirable but fallible man.Former client Rachel Wallace phones Spenser to tell him that L.A. reporter Candy Sloan could use his help: she has uncovered corruption in the film business and fears for her life.
Spenser signs on as a bodyguard—not an investigator, since that is Sloan's department—and soon finds himself enmeshed in pay-offs, violence, and murder.It is ironic that Wallace introduces him to this case, for A Savage Place is in many ways a re-imagining of the earlier adventure, Looking for Rachel Wallace.
It’s awesome!Spenser gets hired by a local Los Angeles TV station to protect one of its reporters, Candy Sloan.
Spenser heads to Hollywood, and tries to watch Candy’s back, but she gets beaten up right after Spenser arrives which should have been an omen that this gig was going to go badly for everyone involved.Parker never wrote a scene about the immediate aftermath of this case when Spenser returns to Boston, but we know from other books in the series that this one haunted him for the rest of his career.
I believe this may reflect some inner conflicts of Parker, himself.He proves himself too often to be selfish and cruel, and arrogant towards his foundation, his redemptive relationship with Susan.
The female lead, Candy, struggles with these injustices, but far less well than her friend Rachel from the earlier book, Looking for Rachel Wallace.I was extremely disappointed in the final pages of the book, when the L.A. cop Samuelson and Spenser are wrapping up, and Parker allows Spenser's misogyny to show clearly, spoiler below.**** SPOILER BELOW ****.“The thing is,” I said, “that she did what she did because she didn’t want to be just another pretty face in the newsroom, you know.
A solid 4 star read from the great Robert B.
Parker- and I added another star for - well, Robert B.
Parker!
I'm sure I am only a few here on Goodreads who never finished the Spenser series- I am reading them in order - Yes, for the first time and enjoying them.
Great stories (yes, time dated) but a good , solid , police procedure/detective, PI story if written correctly- is good , either in the 1980's , 1990's, 2000's - good is good, great is great - and Robert B .
Park was great!!
ok, was well written, and kept me hanging on, like his other books. i have 2 complaints, tho. #1, i do NOT like how he take "charge" or guardianship over a 15 year old boy in the previous book, and then we do not hear about him again. so, is he ignorning the boy just like the boy's own parents do/did? #2, the main character's whole logic on what is and is not cheating, or is ok cheating, is total B.S. cheating is cheating, end of discussion, and NONE of it is NOT ok!!!
Spenser flew, first class, to L.A. Very busy with Candy Sloan out there in L.A. California.
I am disappointed in Spenser at one spot in the book but I guess if Susan will get over it, I will.
Candy's MG was sitting there in the walkway near it.
People skirted it to get into the market, shaking their heads; a man suggested to his wife that the driver was an asshole.
Brewster got wearily to his feet.
The black man muttered "Jesus" as he looked at Brewster's fact.
Samuelson looked at me.
"He was difficult to subdue." I said.
"I can tell," Samuelson said.
In this story, he gets away from a lot of the fixtures, and we get a plot and some feelings on several pages. It is funny, with superbly wise-ass dialogue.
Meh. I’ve read a handful of Spenser books, and this one wasn’t nearly as good as any of the others. Just rambled, wasn’t hardly developed or connected. And the ending…left me feeling that “huh?” sort of feeling that is annoying. I love Robert Parker’s Spenser series, this one is just not his best one, IMO. Doesn’t mean I won’t pick up another one, though. We can’t none of us be 100% all the time.
A Savage Place brought Boston P.I. Spenser to early ‘80s Los Angeles.Spenser accepts a bodyguard gig in LA, protecting reporter Candy Sloan.
Spenser attempts to keep Candy safe, even as her story brings them up against a wall of silence and threats of retribution from some dangerous and powerful people.A Savage Place was one of the outings where author Robert B.
It was a more generous assessment than LA received from a host of other writers.A Savage Place was a solid entry in the Spenser series, with some deft character work and an action-heavy story that uses its protagonist to good effect.
Parker pretends to know L.A. I thought he messed up a bit by mentioning Marineland.
Spenser spends the entire novel acting tough, taking the law into his own hands and despite having a clever wit, makes the reader dislike his flawed moral system and idiotic macho man act.
At the end, like all of the Spenser novels I've read he goes BESERK!How do you turn a hundred page novel into 185 pages?
Later in chapter.
Chapter ten.
Cheeses bread.
Mongolian lamb with scallions.
Cream cheeses.
I find little about Spenser to like.
Why I keep trying I don't know.
Some readers will not like Candy because she uses sex to get ahead.
Candy did two stupid things I did not like.
So why does Spenser have sex with gorgeous Candy in LA?
He says that he will tell Susan he had sex with Candy because they are honest with each other.
When he is having sex with Candy, Spenser says “This is what it is.
I wouldn’t mind his multiple partners if he did not have Susan.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #8 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
He was on location in Hollywood to protect a TVreporter investigating corruption and racketeering in themovie industry.
A classic Spenser line was "I'm a romantic.
I didn't know any place like it for sprall, for the apparently idosyncratic mix of homes and business and shopping malls.
It arched and spralled and disarrayed all over the peculiar landscape--garish and fascinating and impressive and silly, smelling really of bougainvillea and engive emissions,full of trees and grass and flowers and neon and pretense.
Andoff to the northeast, beyond the Hollywood Hills, above the smog, and far from Disneyland were the mountains with snow on theirpeaks."
(# 8 of the Spenser series)-I did not like this one at all.
It may be a pivotal book in the series but it did not impress me like some of the others.
There is a scam going on (possibly involving the mob) that she has uncovered and she is trying to get more information so she can expose it thru the press.
Anyway, Spenser sleeps with her which pisses me off because he is supposedly still involved with Susan back home in Boston.
I’m probably going to give Spenser a break after this one.
Set in L.A., not Boston.A somewhat interesting take on L.A. by Parker.Not the best Spenser book, not the worst. Spenser is not quite himself in this novel.I wonder if this book could have been written as a stand alone, and then Parker decided to make it a Spenser novel.The best thing this book has going for it is that Parker did not choose the "Hollywood" ending.
A very old Spenser that I had somehow missed. It was set in Los Angeles with Spenser 'protecting' a female TV Reporter investigating a big story from some bad doers. Spenser even in Los Angeles stays Spenser, but his cohorts are not around and he is a bit more macho that in later works. All in all, it was a nice discovery for me and fun reading.
Great as usual, but not my favorite Spenser novel. He has a little problem in this one (I won't mention what the problem is). No Hawk or Susan, so not the usual funny dialogue in this one. Still a great read though!
✭✭✭✭
And then Rafferty is found dead with three bullets in his chest.As Candy continues to try to get more details for the story which is so important for her career, her need for protection increases and she and Spenser spend more time together.
He quickly returns to Boston with the help of Mark Samuelson, the L.A detective on the case who appreciates what Spenser has done and gets him on the plane home instead of taking him in to the police station.
By placing Spenser in Los Angeles for this case, Parker has removed him from his usual surroundings: a city he knows well, the comfort and support of Susan and the help from his friends and associates.
She's received some threats to back off, but she's a bit like Spenser himself in that, once she begins to pull on a thread, she won't be deterred.So we get the usual enjoyable Spenser stuff; this time in the City of Angels.
He just seems to be a step behind everything going on around him, and eventually, that leads to real tragedy.We're deep in the Golden Period of Spenser here, and while this book in itself isn't a classic, the events contained here have a really powerful bearing on what comes in the next few books.
Spenser is always more interesting when he's at his most human, and when a bit of dry wit and a flurry of punches won't fix the problem.
I give "A Savage Place" 4 stars because, while being a rather bland entry in the Spenser series, there was one moment of stark reality that absolutely shocked me.
This event just shows that Spenser is just a man, not superhuman and not a superhero.
That aside, there is also a moment (an action, really) that just left me disappointed in Spenser as a character and as a man...this moment involves his relationship to Susan Silverman.
A bland entry, set in L.A. for a change, with two standout events.
R.B.Parker's books offer such satisfaction on a very simple and profound level.
Plug him into any situation, and he will distill it down to its most basic elements & do what needs doing with a minimum of emotional distraction.
His pleasures may be basic, but they are definitely pleasures, and are the reward for a line of work that can be more than occasionally brutal.
Along the way, we are often surprised by the interactions between him and his reporter/client, which drift again and again to the topic of gender issues both in society and behind closed doors.
Did I say these books are simple?
Though many people didn't like the ending, I enjoyed it.
I also enjoyed (like always) Spenser's smart ass comments that are littered throughout.
This book is also in Los Angeles which was a nice change from Boston.Now the things I didn't like about the book.
That brings us to Spenser, who has a girlfriend back in Boston named Susan Silverman.
Spenser disappoints me by ending up sleeping with Candy.
Looking forward to seeing how that works out for him in future books.The crime behind all of the above is a movie studio making payoffs to the mob which isn't explained very well in my opinion.
Spenser is hired to be body guard for the beautiful investigative reporter Candy Sloan by her Los Angeles TV station.
Bottom line, Spenser is not faithful to Susan and make excuses to Candy that he will tell Susan what they did and that Susan will be upset but understand (eye roll).
Candy is dogged in her pursuit of illegal practices and payoffs, putting her life in danger despite Spenser's efforts to protect her.
Having read further in this series by the time I am writing this review, it appears that Spenser fell hard for Candy.
Spenser's ultimate failure to protect Candy and her resulting brutal death deeply impacts him.
I'm an ardent fan of Robert B Parker's Spenser series and even a moderate fan of the rest of his oeuvre.
And (view spoiler)[ I really like how Parker pushed the bounds of Spenser's own fallibility in this book.
However, Spenser's lengthy rationalization of his adultery and the often twisted ramblings on the women's movement ruined this one for me.
Even for a series that revels in the objectification of women, this one hit a unique low.
Fortunately the later Spenser novels completely abandon the bull crap philosophy spewed in this one.
(hide spoiler)] I was a little surprised this one came right after the fantastic Early Autumn.
This book offers the most appealing female character other than Susan herself. Spenser likes her and so do I. That was clear in the first pages, and I immediately marked her for death. I thought she might even die before Spenser met her face-to-face and he's spend the novel hunting her down. When she made it to the final chapters, I thought I had been wrong. I was cheering and happy and then she was done in. I still loved the novel. I understand how Spenser felt when he went a bit mad afterwards. A joy end-to-end.
I had never read a book by this author but needed a real quick read and this fit. Well developed characters with just enough background of the series so the reader doesn't seem to be missing any information regarding Spenser the private eye. Also it didn't feel dated even though it is from the 1980's.
What can you say about a writer who can conjure up the likes of Spenser as well as Hawk. Their repartee is the hook and the plots and additional characters reel you in. Anyone who has lived in Boston will particularly enjoy the settings and characters. I am trying to finish up reading every single one of the Spenser series. Almost done!
Spenser heads out to La-La land of L.A. & Hollywood, to help look after a TV news anchor. With the different scenery on the west coast, Parkers descriptions of dress styles of the early 80's are priceless. Even without Hawke in this case, there was even some body count. Spenser, with his witty remarks, that usually make matters worse, never get too old for me.
Spenser travels to L.A. to protect a news personality bumping up against the Mob. I have always enjoyed the way Parker describes Boston -- he does the same great job with the City of Angels. Another essential Spenser read.
Not one of my favourites. No Hawk and no Susan.
