https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94729.Storm_Over_Warlock
Again and again in her works, alienated outsiders undertake a journey through which they realize their full potential; this emphasis on the rite of passage continued her association in many readers' minds with young adult fiction, although she became a best seller to adults.In most Norton books, whether science-fiction or fantasy, the plot takes place in the open countryside, with only short episodes in a city environment.
In others the protagonists (often young) are thrust into situations where they must develop them quickly, and invariably succeed at it."That being said, even with recurring themes her novels are still enjoyable and usually well written.
This was one of the first science fiction books I read.
I found it at the local library (with the same cover shown) and I must've taken it out at least three times.Sometime in third grade the entire school was told to dress as a character from their favorite book.
I dressed as Shan Lantee, in my purple jumpsuit with "SURVEY" printed across the back in black electrical tape.
Not a single person in my school had any idea who I was.
I kinda liked that.I'd love to get my hands on a copy of this book and reread it.
First read this when it came out in the 60's. I liked it because it continues the Andre Norton theme of the underdog youth who triumphs over all hardship with perseverance and tenacity. I feel it introduced the first bug alien in Science Fiction. I also liked the Wolverines in the book, which was an early introduction to what became later the beast master series of books.
A young man who has been typically underestimated proves to have skills highly valuable to the situation in which he finds himself: alone on an alien planet, attempting to make friendly contact with the natives and avoid the enemies pursuing him.
Shann is part of the team that attempts to settle Warlock and is interrupted by a Throg attack.
As is typical of Andre Norton stories, the tale is tightly plotted and well-written, the characters fairly well-realized, and the aliens original and unique.
I read this enjoyable survival story in the 1960's. Shann is the only survivor of an alien attack on his survey team. They were on an alien planet when the attack occurred. Shann survived because he was away from camp during the attack. He was trying to bring back two mutant woverines. He sets off to survive on his own with two wolverines and later another crashed Survey Officer.
Awesome! Vintage Norton.This story was full of surprising turns. Not the usual alien menace story, but something much more sophisticated. Imagined contact with two alien groups of vastly different cultures. Well done!
How do very alien species communicate and eventually work together? When Norton writes of an alien, they are indeed alien.
Her description of the planet and the various races was good, and the little kid in me has a soft spot for old school sci fi (as my Megapack reviews show), but I found the plot to be pretty lame.
If so, that'd make sense.It's basically a sci fi take on the whole "boy stranded by himself on an island/strange country/new planet and has to survive using his wits/lasers/animal sidekicks, whereby he saves the world/country/girlfriend and finds his true inner strength (like the plot of my first book, The Learning Curve- cheap plug, I know).
I just recently found out that Andre Norton was actually a women. That has nothing to do with this review other than I think it’s really cool. Now, on to the review: I’m actually a Norton/classic Sci-Fi fan, but I just had a really hard time getting into this book. I love the wolverines, I even like the main character, but the plot just wasn’t moving along for me. Personally I think that her other works are better, and if you’re looking to getting into some of her books I would go with “The Pla
I just recently found out that Andre Norton was actually a women.
That has nothing to do with this review other than I think it’s really cool.
Now, on to the review:	I’m actually a Norton/classic Sci-Fi fan, but I just had a really hard time getting into this book.
Personally I think that her other works are better, and if you’re looking to getting into some of her books I would go with “The Plague Ship” before you start on this one.
I’m giving it a 2 because I didn’t hate it, I just didn’t really like it.
I had to reread this because I remember reading it during my childhood, but did not remember anything about it.
Some interesting twists toward the end seem memorable, (view spoiler)[I had totally forgotten about the indigenous aliens and their interesting culture, although I was a bit ruffled by the gender stereotyping of aliens (hide spoiler)], but other than that the plot was a bit too dry for me and the characters, except for some perfunctory details, were exceedingly flat.
It could be classified as an action-adventure, but the "action" is more of the Robinson Crusoe survivalist type and didn't really engage me.
Third 2015Second 1994First read 1983,I just reread this, and with a few more years and a bunch more books, I have to say that it reads better to me now.
It brings us another tale of a discarded youth striving to improve himself and his chances in life.
He works hard to make a difference and get noticed in a positive way.I did have to wonder how he would have handled the bully if said bully had stayed around.
The lack of proper settlement of that is the only downside to this story.Note - the picture on my copy matches the attachment but the ISBN matches to a different picture.
A 1960 Andre Norton YA story. Even by the standards of fiction aimed for juvinile audiences, this one was a tad disappoitning. The characters were pretty much all one-dimensional and the story was just about the hero v. various critturs, aliens and witches. Pretty shallow. I may not read any of the sequels.
I discovered Andre Norton in high school and read thrlugh as many of her books as I could, but she kept writing the so fast even I(read500 words a minute) could not keep ahead of her. Storm over warlock Is a perfect example of Norton, telpathic aliens, animals and people in the most amizing settings. If it is by Norton I'll like it.
Good science-fiction before it became sci-fi. I would have enjoyed it immensely back in my late teens, early 20's when I was actively searching out science fiction. I still enjoyed it even 4 decades later. I will continue to read the collection of Andre Norton that I have recently found.
Vintage Andre Norton in this book. I just reread it for the umpteenth time over the past 50 or so years. Shan Lantee comes from humble and in some ways desperate beginnings to join the Survey Corps as kinda chief cook and bottle washer. And of course can't forget the wolverines Toggi and Taggi!!! But beware of the THROGS!!!! They're definitely trouble but then there's the Wyvern so full of magic!! This is one of Norton'e best. Highly recommended!!!!
Not good by by think in minim minimum million bunking funny yyhhujuuhuhyhhbyhhhthumb high buy hung but Bikini uuun in Nunn or VH drug is hinny no Hughie July dry uuikmm mkoolkkmjuijjnhnbhijijm Nikki jinn hiking booted referred duty huffy game fgggtHubbub ink by the rock did fatty thy high nubbinJunjikkj I hungry drug by byte ft bunkum minion knight try drill I huh i
First book in the Forerunner series, so naturally I read it second. At least now I know why there were Terran wolverines on the alien planet. This was much better than the second entry, which was kind of a psychedelic, confused babble tale. Few authors can match Norton for her wonderful imagination. I would definitely recommend this to science fiction fans.
One of the two or three best novels that I have read by Norton. Other contenders include The Zero Stone and Three Against the Witch World. This is a straight SF adventure story, efficiently told, with an imaginative background and engaging protagonist.
This book really dragged for me. I nearly gave it up. It improved the second half, but not enough for me to say this was a GOOD read. Andre Norton was a favorite of my sisters when they were teens, which is why I've been reading them. Some I really like, some just don't get my attention.
Warnock Under AttackA good read! A little slow paced but I was hooked! Like starting beyond story beginning but intriguing edge of seat hook. Liked wolverines.... wanted more! Good read for teens and young adults!
Listened to the Librivox online edition read by Mark Nelson.
This book was very captivating. I enjoyed it from beginning to end.I really liked experiencing the adventure of Shann as he learned how to face the challenges of a new planet.
Fun book.
Read on LibriVox (free audio books in the public domain).
I liked the book but I would have like to see it with a bit more intro and outro
The Throg kill everyone in the camp, and Shann believes himself to be the only living human on Warlock, heading into the mountains to hide.Soon, however, he is joined by Ragnar Thorvald, the leader of the Survey team, who had happened to be off-planet during the initial raid.
Thorvald has his reasons to believe that there are undiscovered intelligent natives on the planet, and Shann will need to uncover the secrets of Warlock if anyone is to survive the Throg invasion.Andre Norton was born Alice Norton, and like many women writing in the 1930s (and later) was pressured into having a male-sounding pen name to sell books in a genre that wasn’t considered a woman’s field.
There are spoilers, but not huge ones.Storm Over Warlock is the first book by Andre Norton that I've read.
And dated.I listened to it on my drive to and from work (so in chunks of no more than twenty-five minutes at a time) and my mind kept wandering.
For audiobooks to work for me, I need them to keep me interested the entire time.
I've mostly had good luck with that in the past, but not with Storm Over Warlock, unfortunately.You can read more of my (proper) reviews on my blog.
He’s the youngest and most inexperienced member of the team, so he has to do all the bad jobs that nobody else wants to do, like chasing and rounding up the wolverine scouts every time they escape.That’s what he was doing when the alien spaceship swooped down and destroyed everyone else in the camp and that’s why Shan is the only human left on a hostile planet.
They’re not alone for long, though, because a man that Shan idolizes shows up to find out what happened on Warlock, and the insectoid alien Throgs arrive to claim the planet for their own.
A far future SF story, though they still remember that humans are Terrans.Shann Lantee watches from a ledge as a Throg attack kills every human in the Survey camp.
After Ragnar Thorvald helps Shann against a surviving Throg, he joins him on the way to the sea, though he draws Shann into some plans of his own, such as feigning to be a native species, and he has more knowledge of the planet's secrets.
At the beginning of the story he thinks he is the only human left on the planet because his camp was the first settlement on a new planet that is believed to not have intelligent life.The adventure begins when he finds that one other person has survived and that the planet isn't as empty as it was believed to be.It is a lot of fun reading a book that has not been available for 40 years.
