https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37470.The_Other_Boleyn_Girl
Some people (read: uptight history nerds with nothing better to do) like to get their undies in knots over Philippa Gregory's writing and whine about how she takes too many liberties with history.
Also, I consider myself a history nerd, especially when it comes to the Tudors, and I think Gregory's books are great.
The woman was a manipulative, conniving, intelligent, confident bitch, and The Other Boleyn Girl makes this very clear.Other books in Philippa Gregory's Tudor series that I read and enjoyed: The Virgin's Lover, The Queen's Fool, The Constant Princess, and The Boleyn Inheritance.
She had also served the French kings court, just as Anne did, but was sent home in disgrace after tales of her promiscuity got out, including the fact that she was probably also that king's mistress.
I loved the love story between Mary and William Stafford, and would have liked to seen more of the relationship between Anne and Henry, when they were younger, seemingly in love, and she was as much a partner and advisor in his affairs as king (especially in religious thinking and such) as any man at court.
The worst thing about this book was how blatantly obvious it was that Gregory hates Anne Boleyn.
Mary may have been the narrator, but Anne was without doubt the main character, and it is impossible to enjoy a book where the author goes all out to make you hate the main character.
And then we get the whole "wanting to marry for love and not power as a feminist statement" thing that Gregory does with Mary, while we are told Anne, who had power and intelligence in her own right, is a spineless pawn in a man's game of politics.
No.No.No.Heck to the nah. Heck to the naw naw. I read The Other Boleyn Girl - and I wish I hadn't. This book makes Reign look like a masterpiece. It might as well have been called 'The Other Kardashian Girl.' The one thing that is abundantly clear is that this book is very anti-Anne Boleyn. The author is no fan of Anne Boleyn, that much is certain. Now the author ain't sayin' she a gold digger.... Except that's exactly what she's saying.  Smh.First Nefertiti, now this. I am done with historical
No.No.No.Heck to the nah.
Heck to the naw naw.
I read The Other Boleyn Girl - and I wish I hadn't.
It might as well have been called 'The Other Kardashian Girl.' The one thing that is abundantly clear is that this book is very anti-Anne Boleyn.
The author is no fan of Anne Boleyn, that much is certain.
I am done with historical fiction.
I'm not into villainizing famous historical figures.
The poor woman lost her head.
P.S. Apparently there's a novel about Queen Elizabeth I called The Virgin's Lover.
Oh my good queen Bess.
Heads will roll.
This was one of the first books I read by Philippa Gregory -- and out of order. How could I do that to myself... but in the end, you can read them out of order assuming you know the entire list of monarchs in order. :) Informative book. If you're a history buff, it will line up well -- and give you some things to dispute!
A novel based on actual historical events, yes, but still a work of fiction.
This is not a biography of Mary Boleyn or Anne Boleyn and it doesn't pretend to be.I myself am a bit of a Tudor junkie and love reading both fiction and nonfiction about the family and the times, and I found this book a delight.
It had all the elements of a good story: sex, love, violence, suspense, complicated characters, and comic relief.
Catherine of Aragon I think was the most true-to-life.My only complaints about the story (historical inaccuracy aside, as I said above that doesn't have to be an issue here) are that sometimes it sounds like a Harlequin romance novel, and also it's very slow-moving.
Mary hasn't a brain for herself, Henry is a lustfilled king (that may be true), the Queen is soooooo smart but doesn't know what is going on.
"You're just the other Bolyn Girl, we don't like you"...."I am Queen", "You are a whore" it's almost like the author has a limited vocabulary and wanted us to know it.
Second thing I hated was that there wasn't one ounce of family love, or loyalty about anyone.
It's like the author had a goal page amount and she was going to go above and beyond it.
Overall I hated this book.
Me, I like historical fiction that's well researched.
(If I ever hear the word stomacher again, it'll be too damn soon!) Simply adding the occasional period piece decor and nothing more does not make a good read in this genre.I doubt that much historical accuracy was attended to in the making of this book.
Factual history must sometimes be set aside, because that's not what's important in this genre.
I read something by her published ten years after this and her writing showed marked improvement, the nuggets from her historical research were inserted more smoothly and everything felt a good deal tighter.
As strictly a novel, this might be a great book, and I do hope to pick it up again with the mind-set that it is strictly fiction because I might be able to enjoy it then.
I might have enjoyed this book if it was two fictional sisters!
By all means, if you want to read this book, do so, because it is wildly popular (a lot of my friends love it and I'm sorry if you hate this review), but PLEASE read a reputable non-fiction book about these people as well or at least a better researched novel about them!**November 2010 Update - I've gotten through half this book and stand by what I wrote in 2008.
This book has been sitting on my shelf for years; so long that the spine is actually completely faded from sun damage.
I watched the movie on a plane ten years ago and even though I liked it I thought, well, there's no way the book is actually any good.
There is never a moment of tedium despite its length, and I constantly wanted to know what would happen next.A lot of people appear to be unhappy with Anne being portrayed as the villain, but I wholeheartedly disagree with that.
Interesting account of the time how people, especially women, were treated....even the Queen's themselves....by their politically ambitious parents and family. No one to be trusted by numerous devious characters. Excellent book!
Her prose is engaging and the content fThe Other Boleyn girl was easy to read.However what put me off was the absolute ignorance of historical fact and total villification of Anne Boleyn - yes this is a fictional interpretation but now it has made it to the big screen, there are a few who will think this is what really happened.Ms. Gregory describes Mary Boleyn as her personal heroine and this bias is clear through the book.
And look how many wives can walk away from a bad marraige, an abusive one, an unhappy one, as a result of this young woman's bravery in taking on a King and country.It is widely accepted that Anne also had an impact in the improved relations with France when she accompanied Henry to the Court.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “There is no room for mistakes at court.” I have owned this book since Jesus was a toddler but never got around to reading it – mainly because every time I even come close to the “puppy squisher” bookshelf, this guy gets a little antsy . . . .  I have a vague recollection of being envious of ScarJo’s magnificent boobage in the film version . . . followed immediately by what I do best once I decide to watch a movie: fall asleep. Anyway
Anyway, I hadn’t really planned on ever reading The Other Boleyn Girl, but when I logged on to the library website to cyberbully the porny librarian until she finally puts a copy of Made for Love in my hands, this one popped up on the available now/recommended to you page.
I planned on starting it (possibly poolside) once my family went out of town for the weekend since I had a feeling that once I started it would be like book crack and I wouldn’t be able to put it down.
An enjoyable read but I am afraid Wolf Hall has ruined me for historical fiction set in this period.
I kept waiting for Cromwell to walk in and organise everything!
There has been a lot of criticism about this book being light on historical fact but since it is fiction I did not mind that.
I wondered if it limited itself by telling it through the character of Mary.
Still a good easy read with an interesting take on the relationship between the Boleyn siblings.
Two prime examples of her misconduct being making Mary Boleyn younger than her sister Anne, and accentuating that her children were sired by Henry VIII.
Somewhere along the way, Gregory decided she liked The Other Boleyn Girl better, but it was a conscious decision .
But the more Philippa Gregory tried to beatify Mary into this Saint the more she needed to make Anne a monster she clearly wasn't, a villain she never was.
I'll never forgive Philippa Gregory for making utter these two words Jackie Collins, I feel like I already need a shower.
Like my own Anne makes me feel everything and nothing at the same time.
This was the november pick for Vaginal Fantasy Book club and I LOVED it!
I have always been fond of the Tudors, as a kid I always fancied myself somewhat of an Anne Boleyn lover, she was my favorite of the poor wives, so this delving into her history, and her sister's especially, was super fascinating.
It isn't a standard smutty romance, and you end up sympathizing a lot with how women were treated, how Henry the 8th behaved and WHY he did what he did.
I have done some research (ie read Wikipedia haha) since, and of course this isn't TOTALLY accurate, but the drama of it is very entertaining in a sort of soapy-history sort of way.
The book butchers the historical fact, an issue which I'll examine shortly, but in many areas it also fails logically too, for example the idea that if Anne wanted to risk conceiving from another man then her brother George would be the obvious choice, or that Mary Boleyn would have actually done the work of a peasant farmer's wife.
Gregory hit upon a good idea of writing a book about the forgotten sister of Anne Boleyn, but in throwing all known historical fact out of the window, she might as well have written a novel about a completely fictional king and two sisters competing for his love.As obvious as it is that Philippa Gregory adores Mary Boleyn, it is equally plain that she loathes Anne Boleyn.
Well, then...Reviewing this book should be more fun than reading it, but since I'm not in the mood to deal with rabid fangirls (yes, I very consciously use a term describing only one gender), I'm not sure if I want to risk criticising such an amazingly overrated book.The book does have some redeeming qualities, and luckily I feel that most of my disappointment lies with this book specifically and not with Philippa Gregory as an author, so I'll happily read more by her.
This book is pure trash.
It reads something like a Danielle Steel novel wannabe.
Not to knock Danielle Steel cause I'm certainly guilty of reading a number of Danielle Steele.
(Tho in truth it was when I was much younger so I really didn't know any better.)So back to "The Other Boleyn Girl" being pure trash.
It's crazy for me to make such a harsh claim cause: 1.
But for all the real life grandness of it, Phillipa Gregory gives the events a small and somehow unrealistic dimension.
I think the truth is that Phillipa Gregory is only able to give readers the surface of an event.
I got a digital copy from my library and after 6 hours of listening to the audio it just ended.
✦✦✦✦UPDATE:✦✦✦✦Well, I guess, I should have paid better attention to what I check out from the library.
Apparently, the library only has the abridged version.
Even though I didn't get the full version of this book I was not feeling it.
I felt like something was missing...
what was missing?
I'm not sure but I needed more.
I have not seen the movie adaption of this book but I'm interested in watching it.
Guess, I'll need to check if it's on Netflix.
"Historical controvery" aside- I mean, *whatever,* Gregory totally went to the Dan Brown place, and as someone who's interested in history, I don't entirely appreciate it, but I think we intelligent people all know that this is fiction, despite what Gregory seems to be saying in the "Author's Q & A" thingy at the back of my copy.This is the story of Anne Boleyn's rise to power, her reign as Queen of England, and her eventual execution, told through the eyes of her sister and fellow courtier, Mary.
Utter rubbish. It is poorly written, particularly the embarrassing dialogue e.g. "she was hot for the King".The author selects a particularly fascinating period of history, but those events just weren't interesting enough apparently, so she makes up various events purely for their titillation value.There is much better historical fiction out there.
Ein absolut grandioses Buch über Henry VIII. ❤😍 Und dieser Schreibstil hat mich von der ersten Seite gefesselt. Mehr von dieser Autorin, der wahrhaften Queen der historischen Romane #makehistossexyagain 📚😍
Ein absolut grandioses Buch über Henry VIII. ❤️😍 Und dieser Schreibstil hat mich von der ersten Seite gefesselt. Mehr von dieser Autorin, der wahrhaften Queen der historischen Romane #makehistossexyagain 📚😍
I had a hard time staying interested, and read several other books while I was trying to finish this one.
I didn't know much about Henry VIII or Anne Boleyn, so while I was reading this book I decided to do a little research.
Mary was actually the older sister, her affair with the king had been over for quite some time before he took up with Anne, and she'd actually had an affair with the king of France first.
I got a little frustrated with the redundancy of this novel.Overall this was a pretty good book and I would say if you're interested, read it.
Whilst not being well-versed in the intricacies of court politics and the individuals who everyday walked this dance of intrigue and lies, I knew enough to understand what the outcome of this novel would undoubtedly be.
This did not, however, deter from the skilful execution of each scene, the emotions extracted from me despite my familiarity with the ending, and my overall enjoyment of this novel.
Also, despite this being the third book in The Tudor Court series and the ninth instalment in The Plantergast and Tudor novels, my limited knowledge was more than enough to read this as a stand-alone and still understand the intricacies of plot and the abundance of characters this featured.
Anne Boleyn's story is one I researched a long time ago and I wasn't too sure I wanted to revisit it.
It's difficult to believe that Mary, being the king's mistress would so readily be ordered about by Anne, she would surely revel in the power she had.
The case against Anne Boleyn was so badly done and the king's interest in getting rid of her was so open that even his contemporaries (and Anne's enemies) felt it unfair and without cause.So yes I think Gregory is a good storyteller if even I am sometimes jarred out of the story by things I recognise as not being true or because the characters react in ways that I find are too modern.
But after the birth of her second child, Anne whisks the King's attention, and Mary is left in the background.I'll admit, I like it when characters aren't perfect, aren't the best or smartest in a field, aren't able to make the right decision each and every time, have actual flaws.
And while Anne meets a terrible end, Mary gets a happily ever after--her children, a loving husband, a little farm, and all the things she ever wanted.Instead of being the perfect, sweet, innocent, beleaguered sister, Mary came across as a dense, two-faced, passive hypocrite, unable to do anything for herself, who somehow got everything she wanted but didn't deserve.But as much as I despised Mary, I adored Anne and Queen Katherine.
First she was fine not being the King's favorite anymore and seeming to want to leave the court life for the country to be with her children, then she was jealous of a title Anne received, years after the affair between Mary and Henry was over.
While it was an okay read, I didn't love it, but it managed to divert my attention for a few days.One last note dealing with the fourth question in the Q&A with Philippa Gregory in the back of the book:How about Mary and Anne's brother, George?
This book was part of my Read Along Challenge with Ana T.
Many parts of this story was based in unproved theories and even Mary Boleyn's life is mostly a mystery.
There's some tidbits here and there, but very little information, especially about her relationship with her sister or/and the King Henry VIII.
He is clearly a victim, just like sweet Mary.What really bothered me in this story, was the sensationalized end.
4.5 Stars!This was my first Philippa Gregory read and even though this book is classified as "fiction", Gregory included several historical facts and wrote an enchanting and lovely story about the life of Mary Boleyn.
I found this book hauntingly written with the many facts I do know about King Henry VIII and his second wife, Anne.
She is quite frankly dazzled by him and quickly falls in love with both her beloved King and her growing role as "unofficial queen." However, she soon realizes just how much she is a pawn in her family's ambitious plots and unfortunately for Mary, the king's interest begins to wane and she is forced to step aside for her sister and best friend, Anne.
