https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32105.Sylvester
Sometimes I find Georgette Heyer's books so delightful; sometimes I find them tedious.
Sylvester falls somewhere in the middle.Take one somewhat arrogant, self-assured duke with very distinctive slanted eyebrows:(I'm thinking Zachary Quinto as Spock, minus the ears.
And the odd haircut.)**Some of my GR friends objected to Spock as Sylvester.
:)and one intelligent, awkward, impulsive, average-looking girl with unfashionably tanned skin, a wicked wit and a habit of putting recognizable members of the ton in her novels:(her skin isn't tanned enough here but I like that she's holding a book.)Add a great platonic guy friend, a spoiled nephew with a penchant for incorporating into his vocabulary any bad words that he hears, and various irascible relatives.
Mix well.Georgette Heyer fans will find a lot to love here.
I 100% listened to this because the audiobook was narrated by Richard Armitage.
And I really just want to fill this review with Richard Armitage gifs, which probably isn't the most helpful thing ever.
I think I liked the arrogant Sylvester?
He reminded me a lot of Mr. Darcy at times...
especially with the awkward proposal.
Basically, if you like historical fiction/romance then this is another good story!But ok seriously, listen to the audiobook.
I'm not a fan of audiobooks in general, but the narration is amazing and Richard Armitage does a range of hilarious voices.
did I mention Richard Armitage.
After many, many years of reading her books I still cannot fault Georgette Heyer as the best writer of Regency fiction.
Some of her books are marginally better than others but they are all good and I always read (reread) them when I feel that I need a treat!Sylvester is one of my favourites.
It actually starts off rather slowly but once our main characters arrive at the inn (most of Miss Heyer's best action takes place in wayside inns) the pace picks up.
Now I feel very much like picking up another one.........
And it brought tears to my eyes when at one point in the novel – I shan’t say when – she addresses young Phoebe Marlowe with such tender affection that Phoebe, never having encountered such affection before, falls to her knees next to Sylvester’s mama, and cries her poor little heart out.In any case, after those first few chapters of the book involving Sylvester and his mother, the story moves to focus upon the heroine, Miss Phoebe Marlowe.
Have read this before, love the fact that she is a secret authoress whose very first book has landed her in trouble. Love Sylvester, his devotion to his mother, and his aloofness. Just listened to it as an audiobook because it was narrated by RICHARD ARMITAGE. YES, MR. THORNTON! And he was great, and I want him to do more!
I own the Sourcebooks dead tree edition and later bought the kindle edition at a steep price reduction.Pre-GR, I discovered Georgette Heyer and this was the very first of her books that I read.
This book, unlike others of Georgette Heyer's that are my favorites, I have read comparatively few times.
This time around I listened to the eAudio edition.I admit that I missed some things on that first reading.
Georgette Heyer was possibly the first HR author to borrow/find inspiration from P/P.2) The heroine's invitation from the hero's mother and their meeting/discussion at the end of the book was so lovely to listen to in this audiobook that I cried through it.
Love and trust can't possibly come easily for either of them.Sylvester's scene with his mother towards the end of the book is wonderful, and I loved the intelligent and sensitive way that she intervenes to set Phoebe and Sylvester on the right course.
The Duchess is the wisest person that Phoebe has ever had in her life and I think that if this marriage succeeds it will be in no small way due to her.
Living La Vida Loca.Alrighty, so this starts off with the trapped heroine Phoebe and then proceeds...some of it's reasonable and some is just a ride on the crazy train.
Phoebe is headstrong and rather indiscreet while communicating (lacks a filter) is rightfully chaffing at the bit and when it all looks horrible she flees.
I liked Tom.Sylvester, the Ice Duke, starts off fine and the character seems to stay true until the end when he turns and smashes straight into a tree.
Freddy is a better Tom and Kitty is less flighty/ridiculous/impetuous than Phoebe.
I came away with a winter beverage idea, so overall, good.
Sylvester reminded me again why I consider Georgette Heyer's novels the high water mark in regency romance.
Heyer gives us Sylvester, a handsome, self-important duke and Phoebe, a wispy girl oppressed by a martinet step mother, who 'didn't take'.
Unlike so many contemporary romance writers, Heyer doesn't allow Phoebe or Sylvester to marinate in issues and emotive stupidity.
The cold, unfeeling dialogue gets the feeling across, as does Phoebe's determination to keep her freedom once she makes her escape.
I read the print book and also listened to the Naxos audiobook performed by Richard Armitage.
The plot moves quickly, and several secondary characters play key roles, including Phoebe's (brotherly) friend Tom, who is a delightful young man.
Sylvester's grief over the loss of his loved twin brother is only touched on lightly a few times, but it's so moving, and you feel his pain and grief.
And when Phoebe finally admits all to the Duke's mother, again it's quite moving.This was a book I loved as a teenager, and I hadn't read it for quite a while, so it felt fresh all over again.
The man's got skillz.This story, though cute, didn't WOW me.
#weirdo #grainofsaltreviewIn this case Phoebe has written a book which is loosely based on Sylvester and cast him as the villain!
She's aflutter that the ton have read her book at all positively bursting with remorse for how she's cast and possibly disparaged Sylvester's character.
They do snipe at each other quite a bit then sort of become frenemies who, I guess, decided arguing with each other til the end of their days was preferable to...
Weird but kind of cute too.I guess I'll go with 3.5 Stars.Thanks again to Armitage for the eargasms.
Wonderful… For some reason my brain isn't functioning well enough to give a synopsis, thankfully others have already done so, so I needn't.Phoebe is one of my favorite heroines, she's just as charming as Arabella, (who's shy too), Sophy, with her incorrigible ways, and Heyer's laugh-out-loud whit.
I like the secondary characters, Tom especially because he is similar to Freddy in Cotillion only we get to see his smarts a bit more.
I liked seeing how Sylvester grows throughout the book.
His reaction to Phoebe's novel is a bit if a twist on P&P, and I loved it.
“The charm of your society, my Sparrow, lies in not knowing what you will say next – though one rapidly learns to expect the worst!” Sylvester"She blurts out whatever may come into her head; she tumbles from one outrageous escapade into another; she's happier grooming horses and hobnobbing with stable-hands than going to parties; she's impertinent; you daren't catch her eye for fear she should start to giggle; she hasn't any accomplishments; I never saw anyone with less dignity; she's abominable, and damnably hot at hand, frank to a fault, and – a darling!Phoebe
Latest re-read (listen) with my daughter on our commutes. Still a favorite and the scene when he goes to his mother in the end? Yeah, that's my favorite Heyer scene, ever. (view spoiler)[He's just so broken and lost and humbled. And he needed all those things and they could only be fixed by Phoebe (hide spoiler)]. The last third still drags a bit for me, but that's because I'm so familiar with the story now that I can't wait to get to that favorite scene...
Up until about the two-thirds mark, this was a favorite among the Heyers: the novel-writing heroine, a bit of a geek, Sylvester who looks wicked but isn't, and a host of great side characters. But it tips over the line (for me) with too much humiliation of the heroine, and too much bitter bickering, something I can get fed up with real fast in what is supposed to be a light romance.
Either from the mouth of the originally (to me) likable heroine or from her pen as the anonymous author of a trashy novel that casts him as the villain.Unfortunately, for all his indifference, Sylvester wound up being the character who seemed to feel the most things, and while people criticized him for being cold they also criticized him whenever he openly felt something.
I think the turning point for me was the scene at a ball where Phoebe sees Sylvester for the first time after he's read her novel, knowing that she wrote it.
His interpretation of Sir Nugent Fotherby is hilarious.UPDATE 3/13/14: I really do like Sylvester as a character and love that the book really is about him and his growth as a person.
His ultimate realization that he loves Phoebe and may have ruined the possibility of finding happiness with her, that desperation, gets me every time.9/11/12: This remains my favorite Heyer romance--I've found that my affection for others grows or diminishes over time, but Sylvester continues to hold a place in my heart.
Fortunately, when Phoebe and Sylvester come together in the end, it makes everything better.
I lent her Sylvester to read, I had read many GH novels with my best friend, but we did not think to lend them to our mothers until we got older.
How it made her laugh, and now that she is gone and I am older than she was then, it is a gift to have the memory of her laughter and delight in the antics of "Sparrow" her "Dook" and the precocious Edmund, his feather-brained and self-involved mother, as well as the natty nabob, and the many others who filled this book and made it a rollicking ride.
Phoebe isn't far off but when Sylvester has a chance to escape he finds events have transpired that he could never have predicted.While Georgette Heyer is one of my favorite authors and rarely made a mistake, I feel like this novel is almost two different stories.
That made me drop the rating down, but the book is still in my top 10 Heyer novels.I really liked Phoebe.
Like Darcy, Sylvester lost his father at a young age and has the weight of the world on his shoulders.
Sylvester's godmother and Phoebe's grandmother, Lady Ingham, is a grande dame but she has a kind heart.
3.5Sylvester, Duke of Salford, cannot believe that anyone might not want to marry him.
I spent part the book wanting him to be rebuffed and another being annoyed by Phoebe.
They don't meet right away in the book.
What is different in this story is that one of the first conflicts happens pretty early.
Fortunately, that doesn't happen.- As soon as one conflict happens, it gets resolved, the story moves to something new.
Both Phoebe and Sylvester had to learn a couple of new things to more forward.The Grand Sophy is still my favourite.
I'm in a Georgette Heyer reading phase currently.
So yes this is another book by her, my 3rd one this week.
I'll likely take a break to catch up on a few other books I need to get read but will definitely come back to Heyer's novels soon as there are still over a dozen of her books I want to read.This one has an entertaining storyline.
Sylvester is painted to be a wicked uncle but nothing could be further from the truth.
He is after all the inspiration for the villain in her soon to be published novel.
Sylvester, the Duke of Salford, was an oh-so-proper gentleman.
Snooty, condescending and proud.
Yet there was a kernel of strong feelings buried deep within him.
Phoebe Marlow was my kind of heroine.
She was a kind individual and plain-spoken.
She rooted for the underdog and I found her personality refreshing.While listening, I thought of myself as a fly on the wall.
I felt Phoebe’s anguish with her published book and silently cheered her on when Sylvester -and others- took her to task.
I am happy I chose to listen to the abridged CDs with Richard Armitage as the narrator.
And bravo to narrator Richard Armitage, who -- in *most* scenes -- made this abridged audio almost BETTER than the book.
As a reader, I agree with her statement:  "Phoebe had discovered in herself a gift for humorous portraiture...Tom Orde might complain that a score of minor characters were irrelevant, but Miss Battery knew that it was these swift, unerring sketches that raised The Lost Heir above the commonplace."Back to the abridged narration,  Richard Armitage is music to my ears, but he didn't quite get the right tone a few times.
Though Sylvester is more odious than Mr Darcy and Phoebe more critical than Elizabeth Bennett; though I so often wanted to bang their heads together, to make them listen instead of bickering back and forth; though they strike each other into mirth at the most inappropriate moments; and though a great deal of effort will be necessary to keep them together, not to say prevent their strangling each other; in spite of all this—or perhaps because of it—Sylvester and Phoebe are one of my favourite pairs.Perhaps there is something lacking in my education, after all.www.GoodReadingGuide.com
Perhaps, most importantly, he is appalled that he might really be a bit like that villain and resents Phoebe's accurate assessment of his character.
(hide spoiler)] Phoebe is very sweet and had been bullied at home, but she stands up to Sylvester in the end and he needs to work hard to win her over.I particularly love the relationship he has with his mother, and enjoyed the character of Phoebe's grandmother- her voice was marvellous (as was Nugent Fotherby, with his lisp!) I will certainly be working my way through more of these GH books, narrated by Mr. Armitage.
But once I got it, I did realize I had read it, despite not having the title come to mind.
And although I did enjoy the read, I found this one is definitely not in my group of favorite Heyer.This one bears strong resemblance to the Pride and Prejudice juxtaposition.
And for a Heyer, the pull between the two didn't snap as in some of her others, which are my all time favorites for that genre.
Most of her others for the scales used here are a 6.Just my opinion, but I do not think any writer since has even come close in her Romance category.
Yes, gentle readers, I do freely admit to succumbing to the charms of a handsome face and sexy voice as quickly as the next fawning female in selecting a Heyer audio book recording of Sylvester solely based on its reader, Richard Armitage.
In addition, Heyer’s cast of secondary characters are predictable, but most welcome: Ianthe the spoilt and impulsive widow of Sylvester’s twin brother who thinks he is a villianous brute, Sir Nugent Fotherby her foppish and absurd fiancé, Tom Orde the steady and trusting family friend, and Lady Ingham the meddling but well meaning older relative among others.
Her first novel includes a most wicked uncle with horrid eyebrows.GUESS WHO.)So Sylvester ends up assisting Phoebe and her pseudo-brother out of some scrapes before they make it to London where the schmoozing continues.
Heyer knew her formulas and she knew them well and while I haven't adored all of her books, I have enjoyed them enough to recognize the patterns and her Mastery.
I enjoyed Phoebe and Sylvester heckling one another; "Sparrow"; the observations of Tom. But I felt there was a little too much else going on (the accident at the Blue Boar; settling into London; the book coming out; the flight to France) that it detracted from my Sylvester/Phoebe heart-strings.
Some silliness but nicely done.I try to avoid abridged books.
Here are examples of Heyer doing unexpected things and justifying it.When Sylvester first met Phoebe he was rude.
Months later Phoebe’s stepmother told her that Sylvester was coming to their home to offer marriage for her.
But I bought it because he was reacting to the emotion on her face - like seeing a hurt puppy.Sylvester knew that Phoebe’s grandmother would not welcome Phoebe.
When Phoebe asked Sylvester if the grandmother would welcome her, he said yes.
Sylvester was being ornery to both Phoebe and the grandmother.
Something leaped in his eyes; she had the impression that he was going to start towards her.
SOMETHING LEAPED IN HIS EYES AND HE WAS GOING TO START TOWARDS HER.
These characters were hysterical, not just Phoebe and Sylvester but Tom and Lady Ingram and poor little Edmund with his "Uncle Vester this" and "Uncle Vester will grind your bones" and his fob of a new papa and jeez, this book needs to be made into a mini-series only so I could (view spoiler)[watch Sylvester bugled his way through his marriage proposals and getting worse and worse the more times he asked her.
