https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1127492.The_Little_Riders
Johanna, a young Dutch-American girl, is visiting her grandparents in Holland when World War II breaks out and Holland is invaded by the Germans.
This not only produces inconvenience for the girl, but also endangers her grandparents who are leaders in the resistance movement.
When the Nazis announce their intention to melt the Little Riders down for ammunition, Johanna joins the movement to keep the statues out of the Nazis' hands.
The book is written at a transitional reader's level and (unlike most war stories) is appropriate for precocious pre-readers.
I really give it 3 and a half stars. It was very enjoyable. We had it as a home-schooling read-aloud with my grandson. We both really liked it. I'm looking for the Hallmark movie they made of it, now, on You Tube, as it doesn't seem to be available any other way. I've heard they did a good job with the book.
It's been a while since I've read this, but I remember REALLY loving it when I was in elementary school. Super sweet historical story.
One of my favourite book as a child, still equally as good!
This was a simple yet well told story of a little American girl who was visiting her Dutch grandparents when Nazis occupied Holland. She promised her father that she would help her grandfather take care of the "little riders" but it may be a promise too hard to keep. A story for all children about WWII, family, and hope. Even though it was written for younger readers, I still enjoyed it.
Reading for cc2 wk 16...krb 3/13/17
Great World War 2 book for kids. I remember reading this a few years ago!
These statues are the Little Riders.The book is set towards the end of the war when times are getting desperate for the Germans.
Meanwhile, Johanna is forced out of her attic bedroom because a German captain needs to use the room.
The German soldier does not say much, but plays his flute in the evenings.In a secret meeting the town decides to hide the Little Riders.
They take Johanna's grandparents away for questioning.Worried about her family's fate, Johanna is left behind and decides to hide the Riders in a secret cubby in what is now the German captain's room.
I read this to the kiddos for school and they loved it. It is a story about a girl in Holland during World War II and her town's fight to save some of the relics of town, the Little Riders, from German destruction.
(He's the illustrator.) Johanna, an American girl, is visiting her Dutch grandparents while her sea captain father and mother are at sea.
Sitting in her father's old attic room, she can easily watch the little clockwork riders that mark each hour in the town's church steeple, as he did.
Johanna hates the Germans, as they march around the town, drowning out the sound of the clock, posting about new arbitrary rules and hostages taken, and most of all, for keeping her from going home to America.
And then Johanna's room is commandeered for a German officer, Captain Braun.
I rediscovered this childhood favorite by accident the other day. I remembered loving it for the elements of suspense and humanity it brought to the historical fiction genre. Not only that, I was fascinated by the Dutch Resistance and this book sparked my interest in learning more about the movement.Rereading it, I would give it 3.5 stars as I wish there was slightly more historical information inserted throughout the book.
Very short, but cool story of heroism in a child during WWII.
My only complaint with this book was that it was too short. So much quiet strength and compassion in this book.
Great!!!!!!
I really appreciate any book that can teach children about war and history in an age-appropriate manner. This book was engaging and interesting and even suspenseful.
A good early elementary intro to WWII. Touches on certain aspects of Nazi occupation and bravery of some who stood up against them without going deeply into the harshest realities.
It would have been blooms to have added some historical notes at the end of the story.
This book fulfilled the 2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge for a book set in a country that fascinates you.
A simple, yet captivating WWII story appropriate for elementary aged students-no heavy gloom or gore.
Young Johanna (raised in America but with a Dutch father) has spent the last five years with her grandparents in a small village in Holland.
The village treasure consists of a set of 12 Little Riders of metal (modeled centuries ago to represent the Crusaders); they ride out and salute each other when the church clock tolls the hours.
The villagers' worst fears are realized when the commanding officer orders his men to seize the Little Riders and melt them down for ammunition--to be used against the very people who love them.
It is a story of World War II written for young children.
As eleven-year-old Johanna's father left for a long vacation, leaving her with her grandparents in Holland, he happily said, “Take care of the little riders.” No one knew what that would entail.
It is beautifully written, simple and exciting enough for even a young child to understand and enjoy, but the story is real enough to be appreciated by readers of any age.
It is especially suitable for reading aloud and would be enjoyed by most children from nine years old.
A little girl named Johanna was sitting in her attic room one day in the time of the second World War. There were German soldiers that were ruining the music or carillon because of their loud stomping. The little riders were little wind-up toys that Johanna hid under her bed in the den. She was happy when she was able to feel the little brave looking riders on their white horses. I liked this book because the little rider parts cheered me up while reading a sad story. [reviewed by an 8 year old, typed by his mama]
What a charming story of bravery in the face of evil. Taking place in 1940s, Nazi-occupied Holland, the authors take care to show enough of the typical attitude of Nazi soldiers to give children a realistic idea of the times without going into too graphic of detail. But they went a step further and included one Nazi officer who hated the war and took great care to be courteous, even when it was not reciprocated by those in the village.
Simple but effective story of a young Dutch girl and her grandfather during the German Occupation in WWII. Johanna loves looking out her bedroom window to see the Little Riders, small metal figures on horseback that rotate every hour on the church clocktower.But with a German captain now occupying their house and talk of the German army melting the riders down to make artillery, Johanna will have to show great courage.
A very interesting historical fiction book which follows a child of eleven in Holland during the outbreak of World War I. It is detailed enough to give a child the feeling of loyalty to one's country and family. It also show her strength against an enemy invading and disrupting their fellow countrymen's lives.
I loved this book! It's a darling story about a little American girl who is trapped in Holland with her Grandparents during Germany's occupation during WWII. Over the course of the story Johanna realizes that German soldiers are men too, not monsters and that they miss their families and can appreciate art and music and be kind as well. A very child friendly approach to WWII.
I remember enjoying this book as a child and decided to read again just to see. Loved it, great for elementary education age kids. Honest and uplifting but also truthful and easy to see how difficult it is for those involved in a war zone. Great kids ww2 book to learn about some history as a starter.
What a great book! My son is very black and white, so tends to think all Germans during WWII were evil and horrible. This book helped him see that even when a nation is our enemy, that doesn't mean the individuals of that nation are all evil. A lovely lesson told very gently yet persuasively.
Enjoyed this simple book written about a church tower clock and how a little girl helped her grandparents maintain the clock.Dutch resistance and the Nazi occupation of Holland.Understanding your enemy could be your friend in other moments of time.
Excellent choice for younger and/or more sensitive children who are learning about World War II & Hitler's regime. It's not always easy to find good stories that accurately represent this terrifying period without being too scary for young kids. This is a gem--highly recommend!
