https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865106.Le_C_t_de_Guermantes_II
The end of the book focuses briefly on Charles Swann, and while death is mentioned in relation to Swann and to a cousin of the Guermantes clan, the references are fleeting and bone-chilling, in quite startling contrast to the early passages relating to the grandmother's death.
The Duc de Guermantes arrives to pay his respects and is about to make an elaborate bow to the Narrator’s mother but she is too caught up in her grief to welcome him and the duke is obliged to leave, his half-executed bow trapped in his body forever.
The duchesse de Guermantes, now that the narrator is not so besotted with her, suddenly takes an interest in him.
And yet, despite these faults, the duke and duchess have their good sides too.
(view spoiler)[What really surprised me here, though, was the narrator's violent reaction to Charlus.
I didn't expect it at all, and I would almost say it is out of character for him.
(hide spoiler)] And just when we least expect it, our old friend Charles Swann puts in an appearance and, echoes themes found earlier in Le Côté de Guermantes II.
Death and society blends together in these scenes as well as in the end scene, where an ill Swann visits Mme and Monsieur Guermantes, who are too busy to get to their masquerade to stay and converse with the dying Swann.
Death intermingles with the desire for society, and Monsieur Guermantes cannot leave his house soon enough, in order to avoid Swann, and avoid the news that a sick acquaintance of his has died, resulting in him having to stay home.
The beginning and the end of part two of The Guermantes Way is what made this particular segment so worthwhile, the finality of death and the cursory quality of society.
This marks more-or-less the halfway point. I'm wondering why why why I was so determined to read _À La recherche du temps perdu_ in French. I'm finding it mostly tedious and solipsistic, but with moments of brilliance, beauty and wonder. Onward!(And no shame in admitting I'm skimming the stuff I have little patience for.)
Harvemmin sattuu vastaan kirjoja joissa yhden herttupariskunnan illallinen viihdyttää lähes kolmesataa sivua.
Marcel chases after status, game, and renown among Belle Époque Parisian society. And because his gaydar is non-existent, he misses the slow, fat pitches de Charlus is tossing at him.
Marcel Proust is not only the best writer that I had the chance to read, but he is an author I could read quite early, at 17.Now I read his work again.
The poor animal will end up in a dish, but Francoise is upset that he struggles for his (or her) life.Another tragic and comic moment is when the granmother of the hero is dying and Monsieur de Guermantes pays a visit to express his grief and support.
He is shocked by the fact that the family doen’t pay the necessary attention to him, or not enough anyway.The satire with which the Guermantes, la duchesse de Parma, monsieur de Charlus and others are painted is exquisite, wonderful.
In my opinion, this is the most difficult volume in La Recherche so far: the narrator shows that he doesn't believe in friendship, lets us peek through his latent class biases (while ridiculing the same), and describes a very long and boring party at the Duchess of Guermantes'.
Proust's writing continues to be full of simple truths, beautiful descriptions, and colorful characters (we see less of Saint-Loup than I would like, but are accorded a brilliant scene with the Baron de Charlus, who's totally nuts.
Over and over again I kept feeling like he was detailing secrets (social rules) that either shouldn't be spoken, or that were so restrictive I felt I couldn't breathe.I'm amazed he can focus in so tightly while the overall story is so grand.
Le Côté des Guermantes IIby Marcel Proust
