https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/980426.Love_Poems
Absolutely gorgeous
The poems in this collection by Nobel winning Neruda are full, muscular with heart, bursting red in passionate blood, round and loud and straightforward in their declarations. I am sure to re-read them in the future.from AbsenceMy love,we have found each otherthirsty and we havedrunk up all the water and the blood,we found each otherhungryand we bit each otheras fire bites,leaving wounds in us.But wait for me,keep for me your sweetness.I will give you tooa rose.
Including about two dozen of Pablo Neruda's best love poems, this pocket-sized collection combines aesthetic appeal and excellent verse.
Between the pastel pink covers of Love Poems, Neruda's pacing is swift, his tone intimate, his phrasing rhythmic; images of touch, transformation, and the natural world characterize the poet's sensual poems.
In contrast to writers who represent passion as destructive or anti-social, Neruda envisions erotic experience as capable of not only enriching the inner lives of both lovers but also helping the couple harmonize with nature and society.
So carefully curated is this collection that not a single poem reads as less than stellar.
“IF YOU FORGET MEI want you to knowone thing.You know how this is:if I lookat the crystal moon, at t
At the end of the day, Love is the greatest, grandest, most brilliant thing on earth, and this collection absolutely shows that.
It is difficult to find an analogue for the sustained passion and gentleness communicated in this absolutely stunning apotheosis of the poetry of sexual love.Along with 'Twenty Love Poems And A Song Of Despair', this, I believe is Neruda at his peak, in terms of writing from deep within the heart on the one true thing that nobody can take away from us.Simply a little book to treasure.
Stunningly beautiful on every page.
AlwaysI am not jealousof what came before me.
Neruda took my hand and opened the magical world of Poetry to me.
Love brought me to him , he had words for what could not be expressed.
I borrowed from him to write my love letters.
And everything changes when you love poetry.
There is hope of finding beauty where none, I had noticed before.“The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes.” ― Marcel Proust Neruda helped me in finding new eyes.
Absence:My love,we have found each otherthirsty and we havedrunk up all the water and the blood,we found each otherhungryand we bit each otheras fire bites,leaving wounds in us.hold me close, recite this in Spanish and watch me melt...divine.
One of my favorites of Many.....
"If You Forget Me" Well, now,if little by little you stop loving meI shall stop loving you little by little.If suddenlyyou forget medo not look for me,for I shall already have forgotten you.If you think it long and mad,the wind of bannersthat passes through my life,and you decideto leave me at the shoreof the heart where I have roots,rememberthat on that day,at that hour,I shall lift my armsand my roots will set offto seek another land.Butif each day,each hour,you feel that you are destined for mewith implacable sweetness,if each day a flowerclimbs up to your lips to seek me,ah my love, ah my own,in me all that fire is repeated,in me nothing is extinguished or forgotten,my love feeds on your love, beloved,and as long as you live it will be in your armswithout leaving mine.
By Pablo Neruda
Only lovers can accept the pink coverAnd gold, curvy letteringAnd accept them as non-hyperbolic,As a necessity,As the color and script of the islandWhere the wind gallops like a horseAnd where not even night can separate them.Singletons will like the slender shape,The back pocket worthinessOf the hand sized rectangles Of downed trees.They will compliment the translation,Or else, They will scoff at the color of sunsetAnd discard this volume for one that is moreEconomical with its words-Perhaps Emily Dickenson.But lovers...Lovers will tear out a favored page andSmudge it with many transportsFrom pocket to folder to another pair of hands and Celebrate it's return with a freshly fondled read,Feeling the paper with eyes and fingertips.Singletons will quote.Lovers have no need.(Ta-da!
I shall now take a bow.
Thank you very much)
I received this as a gift from my love, Connor, and I read it to him as he fell asleep. It's a wonderful, and powerful little book of love poems. Every word Neruda uses, every phrase, and every sentence is carved with understanding. Neruda gets it. He knows love all too well. And it shows beautifully in this collection. My favorite poem was: Your Laughter...I WILL POST MORE ON MY BLOG IN THE COMING WEEK!
But I love your feetonly because they walkedupon the earth and uponthe wind and upon the waters,until they found me.Favourite poems: 'Your Feet,' 'Wind on the Island,' and 'Always'
Το καλύτερο και με διαφορά δείγμα ερωτικής ποίησης του Πάμπλο Νερούδα (με εξαίρεση το Una canción desesperada). Προσωπικά μπόρεσα να κατανοήσω το μεγαλείο της ερωτικής ποίησης του Νερούδα μονάχα όταν μεγάλωσα και παρόλο ότι είμαι μεγάλη θαυμάστρια της πολιτικο-κοινωνικής και ιστορικής τους ποίησης, όσο και του ποιητικού του έργου για τη φύση, την εξέλιξη της ζωής, την ποίηση κλπ, μπορώ να πω με σιγουριά πια ότι λατρεύω και την ερωτική του πλευρά εξίσου με τις υπόλοιπες... Πραγματικά η συγκεκριμένη συλλογή με εξέπληξε και μπορώ να διαβεβαιώσω ότι αποτυπώνει με τον καλύτερο τρόπο το μεγαλείο ενός μεγάλου δημιουργού και άνθρωπου...
One of my all-time favorites.I love its compact size. I love the pink cover with the gold lettering and beautiful font. I love that the English translation sits side-by-side with the Spanish translation. It's a mood lifter and most definitely swoon-worthy.
“I have named you queen.There are taller than you, taller.There are purer than you, purer.There are lovelier than you, lovelier.But you are the queen.This is the first book that I rate one star. I read so many reviews saying how beautiful and wonderful these poems were and honestly, I am so disappointed. There was only one poem "The Queen" that I found nice. I'm not sure if the translation ruined it or if this just wasn't my cup of tea.
Por esa vida que arderá en sus venas tendrían que amarrarse nuestras vidas.
Por esas manos, hijas de tus manos, tendrían que matar las manos mías.
Para que nada nos amarre que no nos una nada.
Ni la fiesta de amor que no tuvimos, ni tus sollozos junto a la ventana.
3 (Amo el amor de los marineros que besan y se van.
En cada puerto una mujer espera: los marineros besan y se van.
Amor que quiere libertarse para volver a amar.
...Desde tu corazón me dice adiós un niño.
Love Poems by Pablo NerudaIN WHICH Natasha tries to start reading poetry and kinda succeeds?[3 stars]  My love,we have found each other thirsty and we havedrunk up all the water and the blood.we found each otherhungryand we bit each otheras fire bites,leaving wounds in us.  Love Poems is a collection of Neruda's poetry based around the common theme of, you guessed it, L-O-V-E. The poetry in this collection is quite modest in a profoundly melodramatic way which is quite unusual; me thinking the t
Love Poems by Pablo NerudaIN WHICH Natasha tries to start reading poetry and kinda succeeds?[3 stars]
Love Poems is a collection of Neruda's poetry based around the common theme of, you guessed it, L-O-V-E.
I am a beginner in reading poetry and, without external assistance, find poems incredibly difficult to analyse (I'm always worried I've got it wrong).
Overall, the poetry collection is short and enjoyable with some beautiful descriptions of love as I have quoted above and, I personally think, is accessible (partly) to beginners in poetry, in saying this, however, there are probably better introductions which I will continue to seek.
Em poucas linhas é possível dizer tanta coisa...Na escola, não houve incentivo à poesia, quando líamos um poema de Pessoa ele dizia-nos determinada coisa mas a professora dizia que não, não era esse o sentido.
Quando sabemos o que é o amor, os poemas de amor são mais sentidos, mais verdadeiros, mais profundos...
quando não sabemos podemos achar belo mas não dar o valor que damos quando já sabemos o que é.Ainda ando à procura a medo de um poeta que me faça apaixonar pela poesia.
Admiro quem lê poesia e adora porque eu não consigo e quando consigo é de um poema em muitos de um autor.
*Gosto quando te calasGosto quando te calas porque estás como ausente,e me ouves de longe, minha voz
This was a wonderful book of poetry. The language was lyrical and poignant and captured perfectly the fervent passion Pablo Neruda held for Matilde Urrutia. I haven't enjoyed a poetry collection this much since Milk and Honey. I found myself so moved, particularly while reading the first number of poems, that tears threatened. I endeavoured to savour every word and passage and really drink in the emotion. Well-worth reading. I'd love to hear this read in its original Spanish; I think it would be even more spine-tingling!
Neceļas roka atzīmēt goodreads, ka šī grāmata ir izlasīta, jo to var šķetināt un šķetināt, lasot pa rindai, pa dzejolim - to arī turpināšu darīt, jo labas dzejas grāmatas reti var būt izlasītas... Un šī ir patiešām laba. Dzejoļi ir kaisles bagāti, izjusti, emociju piesātināti, atzīšanās pilni. Skaisti!
"and your little hands and mine will steal the stars."
I fell in love with this book.
Neruda houses so much passion, so much deeply enthralling love that you wish you could meet him and hold his hand and fall in love with him too.I highlighted my favorite sections.

Nobel Laureate Pablo Neruda (winner of Nobel Prize in Literature for a previous poetry collection) evokes sea and island scenes - written while on the Island of Capri - in this collection (from 1953) written for his lover Matilde Urrutia.
I'm a poetry fan, but I'm also pretty picky about it.
A friend recommended this to me some time ago but all love poems didn't peak my interest.
I have nothing against love poetry, except in my pickiness don't find much of it written very well.
The poems are published here in both Spanish and the English translation, and it is easy to see the differences in construction and flow.
Very lame.
If this is what being in love is like then let it destroy me
I will always love this book no matter how many times I reread it. forever and ever.
This is a nice little collection of a handful of Neruda's love poems that wouldn't be out of place on a bedside table, wink wink. I enjoyed the layout of the book in which the original poems were mirrored by their translations. However, some of the English translations lost a bit of the romanticism of the originals, and, in my opinion, a select few distorted the more nuanced sentiments to the point where sensuality crossed the border into creepiness. Four stars for the original works, two stars for the translations.
I absolutely adore Pablo NerudaI've read most of his works in the original Spanishafter I did, it ma
I feel as if I would need to write a book of love poems dedicated to this book of love poems because of how beautiful and descriptive they are.
You feel as if you are in love whether or not you are in your life, and that is the most beautiful part.
I think I could (and probably will) reread these poems multiple times and I would find countless new things that will make me feel.P.S. I had no idea there would be Spanish translations on the left side (I mean, I should've expected it, but still).
