https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253193.Killer_Clown
Scared the heck out of me when I read this years ago! This book "cured" me of my obsession for true crime novels, although I still read them occasionally. I couldn't stand being alone while I was reading this gruesome story.
I was warned by reviews on Amazon that this book was really heavy in the police and trial procedural stuff, and not the psychological aspect of Gacy himself.
But this book got pretty boring pretty quickly.
The first half of the book is essentially a play-by-play account of undercover officers tailing Gacy.
They watch his house, they follow his truck, they play a computer football game in their cars - a lot.
They engage in many high speed chases because Gacy is apparently a reckless driver.
They have beers with Gacy.
They hang out in his house.
Sometimes Gacy is nice to them.
I mean, I've hated clowns for years (not because they're scary but because they're annoying and weird), but that's beside the point - this book has very little to do with clowns.
The only reason it's titled as such is because it gets attention, and because Gacy often worked as a "professional clown" at a children's hospital.
I can't help wondering if the case added to his inspiration.Killer Clown is undeniably gripping, but beyond disturbing, that an all-American suburbanite who owned a KFC and entertained young children could be keeping a stash of thirty three stiffs under his own home.
Well written, most procedural on stakeouts and trial..., not much in the way of psychological analysis. The standard sicko, Gacy.
Predominately concerned with the police investigation and surveillance operation and then the subsequent trial.
It is largely academic whether Gacy was mad or bad he clearly could not be allowed to remain at liberty.
The fact that he was allowed to do so for such a length of time was largely due to the incompetence and homophobia of various law enforcement agencies.
If Gacy had restricted his victims to marginal people such as hustlers and pick-ups from gay bars and cruising grounds then the death toll would not doubt have been considerably higher.

Back of Book:WHO WAS JOHN WAYNE GACY?The model citizen whose business skills were admired by his peers?The hospital volunteer whose sweet-faced clowning lightened the patients' days?The member of the Jaycees who was a civic-minded friend of the community?The depraved maniac who sodomized, tortured, and killed thirty-three young men and boys?Shortly before Christmas of 1978, a teenage boy disappeared from the drugstore where he worked.
He would be the final victim of John Wayne Gacy's horrifying compulsion.Then, ten days after the boy's disappearance, detectives, finding a human bone in the crawl space of Gacy's house, dug into the lime-covered ground.
Y hay algunos de ellos aún pendientes por identificar.
Evidentemente que los engaños y patrañas de Gacy sobre sus víctimas me recordaron a IT de Stephen King.
Gacy decía que Pogo el payaso era su lado cómico y agradable que le permitía acercase a los niños de un modo entretenido e inocente.
Creía que sufría de una doble personalidad estilo Jekyll y Hide que lo volvía violento y sadista sexual sobre sus víctimas.
Pero nada fuera de la verdad, ya que no demostró arrepentimiento alguno por sus crímenes.
Un libro entretenido que por momentos se vuelve un poco repetitivo.
I’ve read a lot of true crime in my lifetime. But I had never read the details about Gary’s killing spree. I knew he played a clown for children but that was about it. I found this tale to be very very long. Too long. It took half a novel to talk about the police following him. And the dinners they ate, the booze they drank. The book could have easily been cut in half and still made sense while advising of the vital details.
4.5 stars really. Amazing, factual look at a truly terrifying killer. Sullivan gives a very close, step-by-step look from the law enforcement end of the story. I knocked it down from a 5 because there are some moments where he gets a bit too technical with Gacy racing around the city and the trouble the cops had with following him, but otherwise, and excellent telling of a sad and horrible story.
The book is pretty good for the most part, but towards the end when it got to the trial, it became quite boring. I would've like to have read more about Gacy's side, but it was written by the prosecutor. And what's written on the cover is pretty cheesy. "He murdered 33 boys...now he will die for his crimes!" You can tell this was re-released before his execution. I think there may be better books on Gacy than this one.
A key player in John Wayne Gacy's arrest and conviction gives a mind-blowingly detailed account of his life, crimes, apprehension, and punishment.Among the most complete true crime books I've ever consumed, Killer Clown pulls you deep into the background, relationships, victims, and mindset of this notorious serial killer.
One of the best - and also scariest - true crimes books I’ve ever read. I knew Gacy was a monster hiding in human flesh, but I had no idea just how evil he truly was.
2.5 out of 5 for me. Not nearly as interesting/entertaining as I had hoped. Just a little dry for my tastes when it comes to a book about a notorious serial killer.
I usually pick up these types of books for some light reading in between works that I consider more artistic.
However, from the moment I picked this book up I couldn't put it down.
But the whole tone of this book brought me inside and I connected emotionally with many of the people involved including the monster himself.
The actions of everyone involved - including (dare I say it) the defense attorneys proves once again that in America we do have a system that when implemented properly and with great care and dedication...works.
Terry Sullivan was one of the District Attorney 19s who help prosecute John Wayne Gacy.
Terry Sullivan relates where Gacy went and the numerous problems the surveillance team experienced along with the investigation being conducted during these same 10 days.
Then begins the recovery process and the preparation for trial.There is a break right now to go back in time to consider Gacy 19s life.
The trial is broken down into weeks, again very detailed, with who testified to what at times with word for word transcript.
Terry Sullivan does a good job of giving us the meat of the trial without being boring and tedious.
Both books are about mass murderers in Chicago and both highlight a bit of Chicago in the process.
Unfortunately, Killer Clown struck a little too close to home and it took me a long time to read it and even longer to review.
At the time I didn't understand why.
One of my good friends remembers him being the clown at a neighbor's birthday party and he was horrified that I was reading the book.
I don't think I could have read it from any other point of view than the prosecutor's because I was rooting for him the whole time.
Interesting story, of course, and having the first person account made for some excellent details, to be sure. On the other hand, this is a book written by the prosecutor. It has an awful lot of details. Prosecutors do that.Basically, this story is so very horrifying, and yet this book didn't affect me emotionally as much as some others have, which I think is because the writing just wasn't quite as good. That being said, JWG is so awful that maybe that is a good thing?
Amazing book about a serial killer. Includes the bizarre story of his reaction to 24-hour surveillance for a month while they figured out what he had done - speeding, inviting the police to lunch, inviting them into his house. Gacy was the first serial killer I had ever heard of, and he still fascinates me.
This book was... unnerving. It really drives home the point that monsters DON'T live under your bed. They could be our neighbors, relatives, friends and we're completely ignorant to it because they look so normal. Creepy! Killer Clown is very detailed, which may get boring for some - especially the court proceedings. I liked it though. A must-read for fans of true crime.
Horrifying, dreadful, shuddery. Excellently written and hard to put down. This story, full of the gallows humor that allows the police on the scene to cope with what they saw, would have been a laugh a minute if so many people hadn't really died. I wish I had learned more about the lives of the victims in here. That's my only real complaint.
When I read stories of the most notorious serial killers, I expect that there was some amazing police work that eventually brought them down. It's always funny to see that the police actually are tripping over themselves the entire time.
This book was very interesting on how the police managed to capture one of the worlds worst serial killers, although a bit graphic and disturbing in some parts its a must for any true crime fan.
Ugh, this book creeped me the hell out. The man was a monster. My uncle worked at Cook County when he was incarcerated. He met Gacy briefly and said he was as charming as could be. Rot in hell Gacy!
So goddamn scary.
This book was written by the leading prosecutor of the Gacy’s case.
It all started when the parents of 15 years old Robert Piest called the police to report him missing and asking for help.
And called Mr Sullivan (prosecutors and author of this book) who suggested a search warrant to get into Gacy’s house.
On one side, some form of insanity would be to blame for the crimes committed , but not the individual who committed them, and on the other side, the man has full responsibility for his actions.
This book is a must for those who like true crime.
John Wayne Gacy, the murderer and sexual deviant from Des Plaines IL, was one sick killer clown.
A commercial contractor, member of the Jaycees, respected official in the Democratic party and clown entertainer to hospitalized children, Gacy held a secret life and dark night vigil, involving depravity, torture and murder.
Gacy became the prime suspect in a young man's disappearance at Nisson's pharmacy in Des Plaines when it was indicated that the younger man was last seen with the contractor that night.
Once the police were alerted and did some research into Gacy's past behavior, the contractor was followed night and day.
I did not truly understand what all this person did, though, or how he ripped families apart.Probably the most difficult part of the entire story was how long Gacy got away with his murderous streak.
And every time he slipped away and continued killing.
Until the fateful day he took a boy that nobody believed would have ever run away from home.
From the moment that boy disappeared, Gacy's final days started counting down.
The level of dedication by so many people to following every letter of the law, the strength of character Mr. Sullivan had to keep his emotions in check as the true level of Gacy's depravity was revealed, is nothing less than inspiring.
Interesting, but OMG the minutia.
I love a police procedural, but was there an editor?
This book cries out for an editor!
The ada brings a coffee maker to the office, there is surveillance, the cop has car issues, the cop pays $5 for lunch, the police play a computer football game in their cars (because this was critical to the investigation?), the officers forget their radios, Gacy drives fast, Gacy goes to a bar, Gacy leaves the bar, Gacy has breakfast with the police, Gacy puts his fish in the refrigerator, the cops eat the fish, the ada drafts a search warrant, the judge is leaving at 4:30, oh no they may need to go to the judge’s house to get it signed, the ada edits the warrant, and on and on.
So many interesting issues were completely glossed over in favor of tedious details about nothing.
This definitive history of the John Wayne Gacy case is a touch slow for two reasons.
First, the lengthy section that begins the book, which tells of the investigation prior to Gacy's arrest, is largely one long tale of surveillance.
The police initially suspected Gacy of a single abduction; no one had a clue that a serial killer was on the loose in Chicago, so there was no investigation of that sort.
Instead, it was just a small group of cops who took turns following Gacy around.
Having said that, if you want to read a book about Gacy, this is the one.
