https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8.Harry_Potter_Boxed_Set_Books_1_5
Pretty much hated the first book (unfortunately), the second and third were just OK. The rest were GREAT. Gotta love Draco!
Need I say more?
Harry potter had everything I could ever want in a book and it set the tone for many books that I read after it and I also watched all the movies though they were a bit dissapointing but a very good attempt all the same anyway no matter what new book I read I will always be a die hard Harry Potter fan because after readiing the Harry Potter series I thought if this book could be so goood and actually make reading fun for me then maybe books arnt so bad after all lol
This is what my mom had bought and now I have it so…
I rated all the HPs 5 stars, so 5 in one box would be what....25 stars?
Its Jk rowling and its Harry Potter. 5 stars
Harry Potter is a nice enough read, no doubt.
I read it during my first English learning stages (after about 9 months of English courses during high school) because the language was so very easy to understand.
I could easily name a couple of children's fantasy books (not to mention adult ones) I found much more challenging and enthralling than Harry Potter.
Actually I thought that from the fourth book onwards the books lost a lot of zeal and became longer and, well, lengthy, too.
I lost interest during the fifth book and didn't even start the rest.
Great to have this amazing collection, especially amazing because you can read and reread these books and share with kids and grandkids.
The series is so eminently readable, it's hard to put down. Whoever knew poor orphan Harry would face so many trying times in his young life? Many many times I've laughed while reading. Small wonder Rowling is a prize-winner. The complex come-of-age stuff and tales of the larger moral universe are engaging (sometimes so harsh!) and mysteries are satisfying too. For me I think the first book was the most charming and had the most emotional impact. Of course I'm only too happy to continue reading... Must find out how the saga ends.
This books is very imaginative. When you read it, you can imagine that you're inside the world of Harry Potter. This book can improve reader's imagination.When you read Harry Potter (1-5) but you're not using your imagination then there's no fun I think. And if you haven't watch the Harry Potter movies, I suggest you finnish the book first then you watch the movie...And in my humble opinion (imho), I found the book is more interesting than the movie...there's a lot of scene that change in the movie..so I suggest you to read first then watch latter hehehehe...
Only watched the movie but I want to buy and maybe read the book :)
AMAZING!!!! J.K. ROWLING IS A GENUIS!!!!!!
Harry Potter got me into reading.
я люблю Гарри Поттера!!!
Waited with baited breath for each new book
My favorite series of all time!
love it!!!!!!its my favorate sereies
This is the Harry Potter Adult Edition boxed set, basically the same stories with cool black covers and box!!!
..........I didn't learn anything it was fun..........
For some readers, there's a compelling draw to these prodigal sons -- far more than lie in the never say die, bold as brass, what you say is what you get forever more Gryffindors.And I think that's the draw of the most popular two fanfiction couples, Hermione x Draco and Draco x Harry.Just from the books, though, I have to say at the outset that there's more material for Draco x Harry than the sparse interactions between Hermione and Draco.
Grouping all the headstrong, impetuous people together (Gryffindor) also doesn't seem like a great idea.
Reread
Best. Series. Ever.
Smazing
good
And so our journey begins.The Chamber of Secrets is a mystery solver.
I can't begin to guess where Rowling is going, what's the monster, the location of the chamber, etc.
I skipped a lot of pages coz i can't wait to know the answer.
I read this book plenty of tiimes and always ends up dreaming in british accent.The Goblet of Fire is a topsy-turvy adventurous thriller.
Starting from the brilliant Quidditch World Cup, to the arrival of the Beaubaxtons & the Durmstrangs.
This is a children's book.
It feels like a lot of padding but no substance.
The storyline was great and the characters were fun and easy to relate to (you know without the magic aspect).Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Harry Potter #2) - 4 starsHarry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (Harry Potter #3) - 4 starsThis was an interesting continuation of the series.
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (Harry Potter #4) - 5 starsThis was my favorite book in the series.
This is also my favorite interplay between Hermione and Ron and the jealousy that each displays giving off a humorous vibe to the book.Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Harry Potter #5) - 4 starsNot as fantastic as the fourth book, for me they kind of go downhill after this one.
Harry Potter and the Goblet of FireISBN:0-439-13959-7Arthur A.Levine Books734p After watching the movie of this book a few years ago, I decide to read the book to get an idea of some of the details the movie missed.
The book is about a half wizard half human named Harry Potter who goes to a wizard school called Hogwarts.
I learned that the books are really better than the movies because this book used details to make images in my head.
Although I've already seen the movie, reading the book played an image in my head.

wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooowwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwow
This series of wonderful books incorporates humor, adventure, and fantasy all in one. J.K. Rowling is truly an amazing author. In these books (SPOILER ALERT), Harry Potter is an orphan, and attends Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. But the most feared evil wizard of all time, Lord Voldemort, is back in Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts. He and his two friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger go on adventures to bring Voldemort down.I really recommend these books. They are among the best I, personally, have ever read.
bagus.. saya seneng banget baca harry potter.. merasa seperti berada di dunia harry potter.. (pa lagi kalo liat filmnya iih daniel radcliff...i like him;p ( bercerita tentang kejadian pengalaman pengalaman yang dialami oleh seorang bocah (seorang harry potter) tiba2 ia harus mengalami semua kejadian kejadian sihir dimana ia sama sekali tidak tahu menahu tentang kehidupan orang tuanya dan apa yang terjadi pada kedua orang tuanya..) dan apa yang akan terjadi di masa depannya nanti.. (i loved JK rowling :))
