https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32981.The_Mystery_of_the_Brass_Bound_Trunk
Not only is my edition old enough that pieces of the pages were crumbling off while I was reading, but it is apparently the original plot instead of a re-vamped one.Delightful, fun re-read. Definitely hit the spot.In case you are wondering, this book is about two minutes shorter to read that the time it takes to play a Little League baseball game :)
This was not one of my favorites. I couldn't even find a mystery in it,
Sees a man using the deaf's sign-language.
Taps the walls and bottom because - secret panels right!?SURPRISE!!!!!!!!International jewel-thieves!!!!!!!
Which is about the scariest type of bad guy we can have in a Nancy Drew right?
FBI are waiting at the port to question Nancy and Nelda who was wrapped up in a jewelry stealing scandal (she is completely innocent too!).When they approach them Nancy Drew uses her fancy father to get riiiight out of a fix.
I am Nancy Drew.
We need to make out a little before the book ends because he's Nancy Drew's boyfriend.
Nancy and her gal pals take a trip on the LOOOOVVE BOOOAAAATNo, it's not actually like the LOOOOVVE BOOOAAAAT; it's more like the POORLY SECURED MYSTEERRRY BOOOAAAATSoon she'll be meeting another boy .
The POORLY SECURED MYSTEERRRY BOOOAAAATSeems like several times she gets thrown overboard .
There's no security onboard so Nancy must defend herself from all the suspeeeccttts .
Luckily all the villains' plotting contains phrases like BEWARE NANCY DREW and WARN CREW and WAS BEN WED.
Common phrases that all criminals use, of course!Nancy has quite a group of friends and acquaintances for this journey.
One of the more dated Nancy Drew books, but cruise ships and mysteries do tend to go hand in hand.
Found this one a bit on the dull side. Back and forth looking for clues, finding their room was broken into, chasing a mystery man, looking for clues, finding their room was broken into, chasing a mystery man, et cetera. Gave it an extra star for the meteor that almost crashed into their ship. I mean, you don't ignore something like this, do you? ;)
It's Nancy Drew, so of course I enjoyed it.However there was one thing that I cringed over the entire time I read the book; it was a bit painful to be honest.
That thing is the lack of understanding over how American Sign Language works.
Of course, I think that is due largely in part to the decade in which this book was written, but it still bothers me.Because they only talked about the alphabet, which in ASL is only used for fingerspelling words that do not have signs.
The Nancy Drew books are definitely a sign of their times, when information wasn't readily available and the majority of the youth population was a little more naive and easily thrilled.
As an adult, stories such as The Mystery of the Brass-bound Trunk are a bit obvious and the situations in which Nancy Drew and friends find themselves barely holds up in this era.
Like The Hardy Boys and some of the other adventure/mystery books of the mid-20th century, the stories don't hold up as well for an adult.
so, I think that I have the original 1940's version by Grosset and Dunlap and the story line is similar to the plot that is outlined here on Goodreads but...there is no South African roommate and they are going to South America not South Africa.
Nestrelda's mother is the one who is implicated with stealing the jewelry not some roommate.
Very curious about the different story line.
like second release/version date).Simon and Shuster are not listed as the publisher.NOTE: I have found out that my edition is the original 1940's story line.
The cover is different than the one shown above.
Which is what made it so interesting because this is the first time in 17 books that Nancy has been in a life threatening situation in which she legitimately could have died a horrible death.
It lasted just for a couple pages but you can certainly feel the stakes ramping up as the series goes on.
Plus, this is the first book that mentions the girls getting kisses from the trio of boys (when they are welcomed back in NYC), and the first one I think to use the word "boyfriend" and not "special friend" or "steady date." I love it.
I wanted to read one of the Nancy Drew series again because I loved them as a kid and there's a new Nancy Drew movie coming out. I really don't understand what I liked to much about these books when I was younger. The mystery wasn't that tough to figure out, nothing too complicated. I was really surprised at how much I didn't like it.
My first classic Nancy Drew book since I was little, and I am presented with a random meteor that almost kills everyone on a cruise ship! This also has absolutely nothing to do with the story! Also, every chapter has to end with an exclamation!!!Ah, Nancy Drew. I still love you.
I love this book! It’s an exciting adventure and mystery!! I love how you don’t really know who the bad guy is until the end! Definitely recommended!
Such a fun and exciting book!!! Love how it’s a little more intense than the other books since the bad guy is on the same ship as Nancy!!
This Nancy was silly. I loved how this one ended.
#17 in the Nancy Drew Mystery seriesAs with all the Nancy Drew books that I'm rereading as an adult, I find it entertaining but simplistic.
But they're middle-grade books, after all, and I remember enjoying them greatly as a child.
But when Nancy's trunk is misplaced, she ends up with a different trunk with the initials "ND" and finds more than she bargained for.
Their roommate for the trip helps with some of the sleuthing, but Nancy is persistent and finds several helpful clues that lead to a successful conclusion, recovering missing jewels and some stolen government papers.
Nancy and her friends change it up a little bit by going on an ocean cruise. But of course they still stumble on a mystery to solve, this time involving a mysterious brass bound trunk that is mistakenly delivered to their room.The usual Nancy Drew drama then ensues, which includes Nancy getting thrown overboard off of the cruise ship. But of course she survives and is rescued, and she solves the mystery of stolen jewels and her detective work leads to the arrest of the jewel thieves.
She decides to give in to the demand, but she still sails on the same boat, just not as a member of the group in question.-Carson has a brand-new brass-bound trunk delivered (bet you wouldn't have guessed that) for Nancy, and it's just a total nightmare.
Nancy discovers a doppelganger for her trunk, and of course it keeps popping up; she figures out it belongs to Mrs. Joslin's darling daughter Nestrelda, and girl that is a "I'm gonna tell your fortune" name if I ever heard one.
Nancy eventually figures out the other girl's trunk has smuggled stolen jewelry hidden inside, but that takes a while.-Carson asks Nancy to talk to Doris Trenton on the way.
Another mystery finds Nancy, Bess and George when they embark on an ocean voyage on the Winschoten and a brass-bound trunk is delivered to their room.This might be an older writing style written for younger readers but it sure is an entertaining, fast read.
In the version I read Nancy Drew was a strong female character ahead of her time, a role model for young girls.
I recommend this for readers of all ages.Of course, I would.Disclaimer: All books reviewed by me have been received via purchase, lending, or given to me by an author or publisher for the purposes of an honest review.
Eeee, Nancy!I love the old books.
The Mystery of the Brass-Bound Trunk was ALWAYS my favourite as a child.
I think I read it about fourteen times.
Nancy's cheatin' ways.
I love how she's constantly cheating on Ned (this time with the Purser on the ship...
This time it's Holland, and they're returning to the United States on a cruise ship.
The mystery begins when Nancy is being her usual snoopy self and eavesdrops on someone using sign language.
I think she even gets pushed off the ship at this point ...4.
How Nancy turns every vacation into a mystery SHE MUST SOLVE.
There's a mix-up with a -- you guessed it -- brass-bound trunk, which now that I think about it, doesn't make much sense (why was the jewel thief saying "Beware Nancy Drew" as the ship pulled out of harbor, before the mix-up happened?), but perhaps that's no surprise.
George gets a mysterious head wound that's never properly explained, although it's made to seem meaningful.
Half of the book is Nancy and Co. rummaging through the brass-bound trunk, finding yet another secret compartment, and then calling the ship's captain, who has nothing better to do than run to Nancy's room whenever she calls.
Nancy always gets her man! I love the wholesomeness of these books, as well as the feminine fun. For those who have enjoyed previous installments, you won't be disappointed with this latest mystery. For those looking for a light pleasurable read, this is a great pick. It's not necessary to read the other stories in this series first, but I don't think this would be a good first book to read-many of the standard character set isn't present, and the setting is on a boat-the standard settings aren't present either.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
I recently recieved a whole load of books back from a young friend of mine, ranging from Babysitters Club books to rather battered Nancy Drew novels.
This was one of them, but apparently I'd leant this book out unread!
I'm glad I got it back as it was a really cute little book which I enjoyed.
I'm now trying to get some more Nancy Drew books and build up a little collection as I'm sure that when I have daughters, they'll enjoy them just as much as I did.
It's so hard writing reviews for Nancy Drew books.
For the original 56, that is.
So I'm going to keep it brief.This mystery almost didn't keep me on edge and guessing like the others did.
Could be that this "Carolyn Keene" was the newest one at the time and her mystery development was a little different.
I'm not sure.
It just didn't seem as intriguing as usual.
But, sheesh, it's a Nancy Drew book.
It was really good anyway, and it brought back memories of trips to the library and going home with an armload of five or so Nancy Drew books.
Again, a case of mistaken identity. This time with a piece of luggage. Cute story. Nancy actually travels outside Riverton Heights to solve this one. And it's on a boat! With South Africans! No mention of the oppression there but then, the book was written in the 1940's. Also gives Nancy a chance to showcase her abilities (understanding some American sign language). This was the cleaned up '70s version, I wonder how different the '40s version must have been.
Just wanted to see if I'd ever read this and discovered I hadn't. What's amazing to me is that I can actually differentiate between the books. They are so formulaic and predictable but I still had to finish it before I put it down. I actually carried it to the theater with me so I could read it between acts. It's not that it's good - it's just a bit addictive - probably my escapist reading. Better than romance.
Have to say, it's not my favorite ND mystery. Plot was drawn out with seemingly frivolous turns-of-events, with the many relationships and potential love interests. The mystery itself wrapped up too fast with Nancy solving it in a jiffy without hardly explaining how she came to the conclusion or the reader finding clues for themselves within the chapters. But at least I can say that I've read it.
I remember my mum's American friend bought me this when I was little. I absolutely loved endless mystery series in which fairly bland protagonists solved unlikely mysteries time and time again. I'm a bit too cynical to re-read any Nancy Drew books now, but at the time I absolutely loved them. I think the series goes on for too long to be taken seriously - you can definitely have too much of a good thing - but this book alone stood out as my favourite. Ahh, nostalgia.
I’ll never dislike a Nancy Drew book, probably, but this one was a little less mystery a little more just, interesting situations. Nancy and her chums Bess and George go off to Buenos Aires when everything that could go wrong before, after, and during a trip, does. Fender benders, lost passports, contentious mothers, jewel thieves, disguises, missing luggage.. As Nancy would say, all the makings for a good mystery.
