https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2260460.There_Will_Come_Soft_Rains

The water pelted windowpanes, running down the charred west side where the house had been burned evenly free of its white paint.
The gentle sprinkler rain filled the garden with falling light.This 1950 story is inspired by Cold War fears in the years after World War II and the nuclear bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but, with the concerns about global warming and other forms of terror today, it hasn't lost its relevance.
The title of this story comes from an actual 1920 poem by Sara Teasdale, read aloud by the house to the absent mother of the home.
Where this short story really soars is its setting; Bradbury creates a haunting, melancholy atmosphere subtly and without using any cheap tricks.
The imagery of the house calmly and faithfully carrying out its daily duties while the world crumbles around it is one that will stay in your mind for a long time.For those of you that have played the video game Fallout 3, there is also an allusion to this story in it.
In fact, the developers created their own spin on the famous Ray Bradbury "smart house":AND if you ask the resident robot to recite a poem, it will recite Sara Teasdale's "There Will Come Soft Rains", as in the story:
This is a story about an automated house doing all its programmed chores on a house not affected by the nuclear apocalypse that's left the entire world empty.
With things like Amazon's Alexa and other AI things appearing on the market, you can imagine this is the way people will live their lives in the future, with fully automated houses.This is quite a sad tale really.
No matter how advanced our technologies become doesn't mean we're able to escape death and destruction.I'm sorry I'm bombarding you with short story reviews, I've just really got into them these past couple of days and you can find so many free online, via https://archive.org/ !!
Recommended by Mia's lovely review.Bradbury crafts in this an eerie tale of death and destruction, of a world where the house lives, and goes about its daily activities even as its residents have perished in a disaster. I can tell you one thing, I do not want to be around when this actually happens.Find it here.
The book is a practical book concerning the power of fire and science."There will come soft rains and the smell of the ground and swallows circling with their shimmering sound;And frogs in the pools singing at nightand wild plum trees in tremulous white;robins will wear their feathery fire,whisling their whims on a low fence-wire;And not one will know of the war, not onewill care at last when it is done.Not one would mind, neither bird nor tree,If mankind perished utterly;And spring herself, when she woke at dawnwould scarcely know that we were gone."
https://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/play/b007...2026: With surroundings destroyed and devoid of human life, an automated house carries on... Ray Bradbury's short story starring Joan Miller as the Woman and David King-Wood as Commentator Music composed and conducted by Antony Hopkins
I adore this story.
It is one of my favorite post-apocalyptic short story.
We never know what exactly happened, or why there was an apocalypse.
It was a nuclear holocaust, but what had lead up to it remains unclear.
Most of the story follows what happens in one house some time after all that is passed.
The thing is, the exact timeline leading up to that apocalypse doesn’t matter.
It is the mood of the piece that makes it so memorable for me.
It is one of the eeriest Ray Bradbury story I have read, and one of those stories that I keep returning to.
Thankfully(?), the house manages to make short work of the fire, and goes about it's daily routine, presumably for the rest of time, and across every house in the ruins of the world.The main theme of the story is humanity or the lack thereof.
The main point is how the entirety of the story is about how life goes on after humanity has died.
The poem is also about how life continues after humanity has died, albeit with plants, animals, and Earth, instead of a robotic house.This is Ray Bradbury, so impressive writing is a given.
The thing about this story is that it is great if you keep in mind that it was written in 1950, when the idea of an automated house wasn't yet a sci-fi mainstay. Today, it is rather 'meh', and there are certainly better short-stories out there.But as with perhaps every other item on my short-story shelf, it can be found free online, so you might has well give it your 15 minutes.
This is one of my all time favorite short stories. It is also one of the most beautiful and haunting pieces of science fiction ever written. Reading this won't take much of your time, but it might just linger with you for a long time.
I have only read the title short story, but it is truly fantastic.
One of the greatest apocalyptic stories I've ever read...
From BBC radio 4 Extra:2026: With surroundings destroyed and devoid of human life, an automated house carries on... Ray Bradbury's short story starring Joan Miller as the Woman and David King-Wood as Commentator Music composed and conducted by Antony Hopkins Singers: Ann Dowdall and John Carol Case. Adapted and produced by Nesta Pain. First broadcast on the BBC Third Programme in September 1962.https://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/play/b007...
I loved the way he described how technology hunts people.
I thought I had read all of Ray Bradbury’s works while in grade/high school, but this short story was new to me. After a nuclear war a house carries on its’ preprogrammed duties in the absence of the owners. There is terrifying normalcy in the midst of total devastation. I actually got the chills after reading this.
Fantasy e Fantascienza non sono i miei generi preferiti anzi, li leggo raramente e, eccezione fatta per un pugno di titoli, non sono mai riuscita a farmeli piacere.
Un paio di anni fa Il Sole 24 pubblicò una raccolta di racconti d'autore, collana di cui acquistai (quasi) tutte le uscite.
Ogni tanto prendo una delle uscite e la leggo, gustandomela a colazione o in pausa tè.
Poesia e racconto si abbracciano magnificamente, in una amara esaltazione del profondo senso di desolazione derivante dalla paura di un futuro incerto e minaccioso, un futuro immaginato come sterile e spezzaro in ogni sua forma.
Bradbury builds the story around a few lines of a poem written long before the possibility of nuclear war but predictive of the same reality that continues today at Chernobyl where trees still grow but humans don't live.He really lets himself flow into what turns into a sort of extended prose poem about mechanisms that act as ghosts of humanity, mindlessly following routines until accident and entropy no longer permit them to follow what had become daily rituals as the system collapses.
Perhaps it is even sadder now when we contemplate the ghost lives that will survive us on the internet.
I actually find the idea of a house that does everything for you and knows better than you to be only marginally less frightening than the idea of a nuclear apocalypse.
I fell like this is the house from The Veldt but in an alternate universe it's really odd and I don't know how to feel about it this writer seems to really like his si-fi futuristic stuff and was pretty good at it but they always have this weird ending that you wouldn't expect ... I'm not really sure
Essa é uma narrativa apocalíptica com dois elementos muito presentes na narrativa de Bradbury: mudanças de perspectiva e fogo.Vamos acompanhando a destruição de uma casa futurística que já abrigou pessoas antes da guerra, até que Bradbury nos provoca com uma música que soa mecanicamente no interior da residência, alterando a perspectiva dos acontecimentos para a visão da Natureza: “Chuvas leves e o cheiro da terra virão, E os escoadouros rodeados de seu ruído trêmulo;E sapos nas lagoas cantando à noiteE ameixeiras selvagens em branco tremelicante;Todos vestirão sua penugem de fogoAssobiando seus caprichos em uma cerca baixa de arame;E ninguém vai ter consciência da guerra, ninguémVai se importar quando ela finalmente tiver terminado.Ninguém vai se importar, nenhum passarinho e nenhuma árvore,Se a humanidade pereceu por completo;E a própria Primavera, quando despertar ao amanhecerMal saberá que não estávamos mais lá”Uma crítica profunda que Bradbury nos faz.
The lone warrior is the only thing that hasn't perished in the aftermath of the war and like the champ that it is, it continues on with it's daily chores while all else has fallen apart.The thing that would stay with me long after I've forgotten the absolute details of this story is the impenetrable feeling of lonliness that I felt coursing through me with each word impressed upon my skin.In this house lived real, alive people with a routine and life all sketched out in front of them and now the house is empty and the only evidence of their existence is in the way the house carries on performing tasks that it must've when they were there.
This is truly a great sci-fi short story, and it gets even better the more times you read it.
I got assigned to read this for school, and 30 minutes before we had to analyze it in class I read it for the first time (oops), and thought it was good.
However, after I read it three more times, I realised it wasn't just good, it was REALLY good!
The house itself in this story is essentially the main character, and all the entities inside the house (such as the cleaning mice e.t.c) are secondary characters.
This resonates with power! The pictures he paints, his personification, the anthropomorphic qualities and behaviors, the rich themes all amalgamates well. It all mixes and creates a powerful, thoughtful message.With the short volume, it allows you to read the story quickly and the follow-up questions are great. My 8th grade students may read this at some point this year and I'm excited for them. This will be a memorable read. I'm definitely coming back to this when I read the collection of "The Martian Chronicles."
A post-apocalyptic world is a very scary thing that could happen and has been explored numerous times, but in this short story Ray Bradbury focuses on a robot house that continues to exist without humans.
And yet we continue making nuclear bombs...
Until this day, how well the house had kept its peace. What happens to things left behind? Perhaps, There Will Come Soft Rains is offering an alternative. That things left behind will not change their routines or habits, partially due to naiveté of that childlike want to retain things and traditions; partially due to the lack of knowledge about how they should behave when things finally change and they are not parts of that change.  The dog ran upstairs, hysterically yelping to each door, at la
What happens to things left behind?
Perhaps, There Will Come Soft Rains is offering an alternative.
However, it seems to be almost inevitable that things will face more sadness than happiness.
It seems to be almost inevitable that things will remember more about what is not there anymore, instead of hoping that there will be new thing to come along or even making new thing to come along.
Because 'left behind' indeed does not give us enough consolation or hope.
The house tried to save itself.
But, just like saying sorry would not mend any already broken pieces, nostalgia is also of no use.
The story is set in the year 2026 in a sophisticated, self-sustaining house surrounded by a barren wasteland of rubble.
The family that had occupied the home must have died a long time before in some sort of nuclear war, as is hinted at via the ruined landscape, but the house is ignorant to the fact.
After a time of this pointless routine, a nearby tree falls and crashes through a window in the kitchen causing an aggressive fire to spread throughout the rooms of the house.
The story takes place in Allendale, California on August 4, 2026 inside of an empty futuristic house where everything is automated by a computer that is completely unaware that the house is empty.
(Cooking, cleaning, ect.) Little does the house know, everything around it has been destroyed by some unknown cataclysmic event that had wiped out everything, and the house is none the wiser.
Who knows, maybe some cataclysmic event will happen between now and 2026.
My sister has been trying to convince me to read this story for several days now but with my rush to complete a late thought of goal I just kept shoving it back since it was e-format.
Anyway I chose to go ahead and read the story since I had time to spare while I was out to eat.
This is going to be one of those stories whose horror is vague and yet realistic enough since of the events in our lives.
All in all delightful while I wonder if there is a paper copy of this story out there.
