https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228198.The_Green_Mile_Part_3
Damn that reversal! Grrrr. I wanna slam that jerk.My first impression of this novella was that it was all about pissing away a miracle. Literally. But no, just that pissing IS the real miracle.I love it when I can walk away from a tale with a strong moral. ;)I thought the dog university was cute, and what they were doing for the poor guy on death row was really sweet, so of course when spoiler spoiler spoiler happened, I was Really Pissed. Literally.
I'm reading these as they were originally published...
one at a time.
I'm reading one each month.
I have to say, I was at the end of this one and my mouth was left hanging open for several minutes!
I have never seen the movie, so this is truly all a new story for me.
I couldn't believe the end, even though the action itself made perfect sense.
It was just so abrupt, cold, and heartbreaking!
This has been my favorite one so far, but I know it is gonna destroy me when I am to the end of #6...
Por qué tiene que llamarse Percy el sorete este? pobre Cascabel :( y lo que le espera a Delacroix...
I'm always in awe of King's ability to write characters.
Even though you know they are criminals, you can't help but like them.
Delacroix is a monster that killed several people, but you still feel for him, and his relationship with Mr.Jingles just makes him seem so harmless.
Percy is a guard, he's supposed to be a good guy, but he's such a hateful character.Meanwhile, a guy nicknamed Brutal, is a gentle giant.
Someone who quite possibly was a saint.
I've seen the movie so I know what happens, and I reaaally don't want to read about it.
Wow! I gasped out loud at the very end of this section!!
I love how the beginning starts off with Paul in his old days discussing what made him think of certain occurances on the Mile, and how it made him remember that he needed to write about it and to not forget to include it in this story he is writting.
Also I can't believe what part this section of the book leaves off at!
It completely leaves you hanging in a most desparate part, where if this was when the books first came out and I was reading this, it would have made me want to pull my hair out!
Il miracolo di Coffey finisce quasi in secondo piano rispetto al l'umanità dei carcerieri, al loro rapporto con Del. E Percy? Quanto vorrei spaccargli la faccia col suo manganello. Quanto sei grande Stephen?
Aaaarrgghhh, Mr. Jingles 😭Part Three did not go well. Don’t get me wrong, I loved it. But that ending. King just reached into my chest and ripped out my heart (although kudos to him on a great cliff hanging moment).Now I have to wait another week to find out what happens.I am loving this!
I really enjoyed this part to the series because it had a lot of great character development and gave me a better understanding of what it was like in the penitentiary. The ending was a bit of a shocker but still really enjoyed it.
This third installment continues to build the tension in the storyline introduced within the first two installments, even providing the reader with a mini-climactic ending. Still, I would have been very impatient while waiting a whole month to continue Paul Edgecombe's account of the harrowing events that took place during the fall of 1932 at Cold Mountain Penitentiary.
According to the brochures they keep in the lobby and send out to prospective clients, it's a "state-of-the-art retirement complex for the elderly." It even has a Resource Center - the brochure says so.
The folks who live here (the brochure doesn't call us "inmates," but sometimes I do) just call it the TV room.
It's just that if I wanted to spend time with trailer trash, I'd move two miles down to the Happy Wheels Motor Court, where the police cars...I've been reading a lot of academic and quasi-academic texts lately.
Had to read this straight after the previous one to find out what happened. Great action in this one. The ending is horrible - but what a cliffhanger. Even better than the last one. A brilliant read.
Wow, King's writing is epic, creepy and thrilling.
Very sad
Really, really enjoyed the third book in this serial novel. It picked up a lot faster compared to the second book, which I NEEDED. Cannot wait to start the next one!
Percy is a monster !!! Oh my lord. I can't wait to start the next part.
Stephen King's style of writing is just awesome!
This book continues with the lives of Paul, his fellow guards, John, Delacroix, and the new inmate William Wharton. Paul begins to investigate John's case, after the whole curing of the bladder infection incident, Paul was curious as to why someone so innocent looking and kind could kill two innocent little girls. We find out why William is there and how much of a trouble maker he really is. We also learn a little bit about Pauls love life.
Book three of the six book installment. This was an excellent storyline. In this book, we find out just a hint of what John Coffey is capable of, but not quite what he is yet. He has healed Paul’s infection. Percy is the biggest jerk ever. I can’t believe how he killed the mouse at the end of the book. While Del is on death row, Percy thought he had to exact revenge because Del laughed at him.
Every bit as good, better, than the movie, and the movie was spectacular. This series of books is King at his very best. Not horror, nor genre specific really, just wonderful engrossing characters, a great story, great build-up. Just, everything, so good.
This is where the story really starts to get interesting! We see a bit into the magic that is John Coffey (like the drink, only spelled different). And we see just how weak and horrible a person Percy is.
Finally we learn what is so special about John Coffey. What was once the main story in the first installment became pushed aside to the B plot in the second part has now come back to the main attraction in part 3. More character development ensues, these books are hard to put down!!
Poor Mr. Jingles :(
My review for the whole book: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Pages fly in this series...
read this as a serial.. soo good
Apart from my love affair with much of Stephen King's work, this is an amazing format that makes me yearn for more books to be delivered this way.
Enjoying it!
again so good I couldn't put it down!. I read part 2 & in one sitting!
This is a bloody good story, I will give you that for free!!
