https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2083905.Not_That_It_Matters
Some were a bit dated such as the essay about the perfect walking stick or the one about pipe smoking and there is some use of some now un-politically correct language; but others felt just as current now as they must have been then, such as the essay titled “Intellectual Snobbery” about the shame one feels about reading popular fiction as opposed to the classics or the one titled “My Library”, about the eternal quandary of how to best arrange one’s books.
These essays are probably best enjoyed a few at a time over days or weeks and not all in one go.
The catalogue mark is from 1924 and I enjoyed thinking of all the people across the past 90 decades who had checked this book out before I did.
The context of his time is strongly woven into every single thing he writes, so that there are 'problems' or criticisms explored that would no longer have quite the same ring of relevance now as it did then.
This is true for many of the essays; the central ideas often feel quite relevant, but some of the details feels like something lost in time, sometimes even a ring of nostalgia for things no longer in existence.
Actually there's a few essays on writing in particular, but then there's as mentioned before, many essays which discusses things like flowers, sports, architecture, weather, you name it.
I have, of course, read Winnie the Pooh, but that was all my acquaintance with AA Milne.
This delightful little book makes me want to read much more by him—because he’s so much fun.
He picks commonplace little topics and puts a hilarious spin on them (that bit about the ‘puss moth caterpillar making faces at young birds’ had me cracking up—and that’s only one of innumerable examples).
So hilarious, in fact, that I was in a dilemma even as I read this book: to ration it out, spreading out the laughs over several days, or to read it all up quickly because it was so much fun?
These lovely little essays about everything (and at the same time nothing in particular) are perfect for whiling away a quiet afternoon with a cup of coffee. Even if you're not currently experiencing a quiet afternoon with a cup of coffee, Milne's sweet flow of prose will help you feel as if you are. Particularly memorable are his fussy little essay on fruit and the surprisingly barbed closing essay regarding the narrow-minded scope of understanding demonstrated by armchair critics.
Judging from the comments made by others here, I may need to revisit this series of essays someday. But as it was, I just didn't find myself very interested in them the other night and set the book aside for something else.
This book is collection of essays on different subjucts ranging from writing to golf to Santa Claus. This is not a volume I would read again, but I did laugh and smile in places. A.A. Milne has a way with words. If you are looking for a free Kindle with short essays to read, you will enjoy this.
Anyone who only reads A.A. Milne's Winnie the Pooh stories is really missing out on his wonderful essays! This is such a charming collection of essays, and worth every moment spent reading it.
Before, then, we decide what to do about it, we must ask ourselves that very awkward question, "Why do we have books on our shelves at all?" It is a most embarrassing question to answer.Alan Alexander Milne è l'autore della serie di libri dedicati a Winnie-the-Pooh (sì, proprio lui!), pubblicati negli anni Venti.
Gli argomenti sono i più disparati ma i vari articoli hanno sicuramente in comune un tranquillo e inglesissimo senso dell'umore che permette di goderseli tutti, anche quelli che affrontano le tematiche più assurde.E' davvero difficile spiegare di cosa parla questo libro: di come ordinare i propri libri, della gioia della scrittura o della vita nelle periferie residenziali: argomenti piccoli e confortevoli insomma, su cui non è necessario essere completamente serie, ma in modo bonario e pacato Milne si può permettere di sorridere ed ironizzare.http://robertabookshelf.blogspot.it/2...
topics vary and wisdom abounds -- we read about squeaky collars, pen nibs, thermometers, goldfish, pond visits to get us moving, intellectual snobbery, daffodils, "household" books that become part of the family -- milne's example is kenneth grahame's the wind in the willows and oh boy do i agree!!
-- lunch, talking at breakfast (an exception and why), walking sticks, diary writing, the unfairness of midsummer starting us toward winter when we've just gotten started on summer days (agree!!), fruit, the seaside, labels, games for wet afternoons, and other inconsequential things that comprise life that in the hand of a talented good-hearted writer becomes pure delight.
I love British humor! The old-fashioned kind, of course. This audiobook was a collection of little articles written by A. A. Milne (the author of the Winnie the Pooh stories!) for a newspaper. Short and sweet, some of them are pretty clever, and many of them still apply to life now 100 years later. Great to listen to, but the Librivox readers were hit and miss. Some were fantastic, some were SO hard to listen to.
There is not much I can say, other than A.A. Milne just "gets" me. This book of essays and editorials is all at once a call to manners and civility from an era long gone, as well as a reminder that human beings haven't really changed that much. What's old is new again. Now seriously, I'm off to go make tea and walking sticks "new" again.
My appreciation for Milne's essays grows with every one I read. Such fun. I highly recommend him.
I love this little book of essays so much! Each one is amusing and entertaining, they all make me smile!
Positively delightful! Classic Milne.
Clever and hilarious and whimsical in that quintessentially English sort of way
Ahh...a relaxing, enjoyable read.
This is a very charming collection of essays - meditations on life. Milne has a very gentle way of analyzing the minutiae in a compelling light.
