https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17262203-maddaddam
She's the strong, commanding female presence in The Year of the Flood, the one who endures horrific sexual torture, hollows out her reproductive system in order to make rent without letting it ruin her sense of self, changes her identity/appearance and gives up her very existence to go into hiding so she could protect those she loved in God's Gardeners, holes up and weathers the plague all alone by resourcefully hoarding and cultivating food and other essentials while fighting off hybrid monster animal things and rapists alike, the woman who without a second thought grabs a shotgun and chases after Amanda when she gets grabbed by the Painballers, at great and unnecessary risk to herself.
I cried buckets at the end.
Jesus.O&C is the male story -- all sex and longing, invention and death (look, I'm just telling you what I see).
Trust me, it works.)But MaddAddam is more like -- the male story again, but the woman observing and commenting on it, and it's entwined with her own -- just like the names, Adam and Madam, which also ties in with the end of the last book.That was great to read them all together but I'm kinda SHATTERED.
Thankfully we no longer eat pork.Thank you for the fish.
I will put the fish in my mouth.
Where were the epic final confrontations?
The entire "final battle" is almost an afterthought, compared to the main themes of hope rising from the ashes, the power of love & loyalty, and the fact that human civilization adapts...spitting proudly in the eye of dystopia.
This is a story about "telling" the stories of characters -- Zeb & Toby's romance, Zeb & Adam's coming of age, the Crakers & their enlightenment through the young Blackbeard...and the novel is quite seductive (to say nothing of snort-inducing hilarious when it comes to dealing with profanity) as it constructs its narrative.
While this technique worked incredibly well in The Year of the Flood, providing context for much of the events and letting the female characters flip Jimmy's story on its head, MaddAddam totally fails to provide anything new or interesting in its backstory.
Toby's arc during this book is particularly terrible, but Ren and Amanda only escape this fate because they spend most of their time offscreen.
75% of this novel takes place in the past, rehashing Zeb's life in the pleeblands and his relationship with Adam One. There are a few interesting new additions to the world, but the vast majority of Zeb's activities are tied to the other books' plot lines; his story just retells what you already know.
If it's a trilogy of books we are talking about, YES, it WILL take me YEARS to complete.
Thankfully, Maddaddam book 3 immediately reminds you of why you fell in love with Atwood's postapocalyptic world in the first place.It has parts of "Oryx and Crake" & "Year of the Flood" in it...
They are, most of them, video game-playing persons who've given life to a new world order.I really admire the writer's impulse to create a world larger than "The Handmaid's Tale" (her most famous book) and to have a blast creating worlds that incorporate nature & technology both.
But in this volume they are front and center, and I was nervous because I thought maybe Margaret was going to become a victim of her own creation—characters like this are kind of annoying, with their stilted manner of speaking, their endless questions, forcing all the regular people to constantly break everything down into its most simplistic essence to explain it to them.
The world feels a little (a lot) dimmer knowing I don't have another Atwood waiting for me just as soon as I can make my way to a copy, or force a copy to make its way to me, is what I'm trying to say.
We never even saw a glimmer of a return to his complex, fascinating character from Oryx and Crake in this book.
With Jimmy comatose as the book opens, Toby takes over the duty of telling them the stories to explain their place in the world and the things that are happening in it.
What was so compelling about Oryx and Crake, and Year of the Flood, was the way you could really believe every single terrifying thing that happens in this genetically modified universe.
(hide spoiler)]This is probably the least coherent review I've ever written here but this is what I think: don't read this book.
Survival of the adaptable, a Darwinist take on life, but not materialistic alone, since the human need for myth, ritual and love is pointed out over and over again.I can see why MaddAddam doesn't appeal to everyone - being a very slow and quiet read compared to the first two books - but as for me, I was more deeply satisfied with this story and would put it on one shelf with The Handmaid's Tale.Having said that, you have to read the first two books to get a feeling for the strange world Toby and Zeb and the Crakers are moving in!
In essence, the first in the series, “Oryx and Crake”, focused on the motive and method by which Crake caused the plague and led the creation of a genetically modified form of human, who like bonobos are dedicated to making love not war and can live by grazing kudzu.
In this tale, the Crakers and God’s Gardeners get together and set a path of life in the new circumstances.Where we start here, about six months after the plague, a band of less than a dozen survivors are getting gardening and hunting under way in a hippie commune sort of society.
(I have warned you that we are called two-skins in the story, at least by the new inhabitants of earth, but I will just call us people sometimes.)That story of the world developing in the future had been told in parts of the first two books (Oryx and Crake, The Year of the Flood).
That is because many of the in-between things are part of Zeb’s story, and Zeb is a man who was in the end much more good than bad.The story in the book tells how bad the world made by the people had become by the end of our present century, less than a hundred years from now.
Why?I read this because I enjoy Atwood's varied writing, I like reading dystopian and speculative fiction, and the the preceding two books in this trilogy were excellent, in different ways.#1 Oryx and Crake reviewed here 4*: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...#2 Year of the Flood reviewed here 4*: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...#3 MaddAddam only 2*.
When he can't do it, Toby has to take over.Atwood knows the importance of stories too, and can be a powerful storyteller, but in this book, I found that power lacking, except when she was writing Toby's tales to the Crakers.
Honestly, it seems like she wrote Oryx and Crake, realized she had an opportunity to make a point, and then wrote a storyline that would vaguely hang around it, rather than letting the story, and what would make sense within that story, dictate what she was to say.
In the first book, the world is at an end, everyone but Jimmy and the Crakers are dead, no bad people exist.
Most importantly, who actually gives a hot damn about Zeb and his backstory?I think this is the big crux of my problem with this book and, now that it's complete and this is its ending, the series as a whole.
Years!)When you read all the books of a trilogy close together, and you already know the story having read each of them at least once before, it is a lot easier to fill in the gaps and see the intricate detail that Atwood has built into this world.
While Oryx and Crake and The Year of the Flood were parallel narratives, MaddAddam starts from where those books end, and then traces back around to tell the story of Zeb. His story is told largely by Toby, to the Crakers, in the form of myth-like bedtime stories.
It's already happening!http://www.bbc.com/news/health-36437428I've said it before, but that won't stop me saying it again: Atwood writes real people, which in my (admittedly extremely limited) experience of speculative fiction is as rare as a butterfly in an Arctic wind tunnel.A completely satisfying conclusion to the trilogy, which gives the fast-paced back story of MaddAddam and edges the action forward to the final confrontation between the goodies and the baddies.
There is an utterly amazing bit of inter-racial collaboration that requires a little of the old suspension of disbelief thingie, you know, but by that time I was so hooked I'd have swallowed a ballet-dancing pigoon in a tutu.
Well, not literally.Obviously.
The terrible, sadistic rapist/cannibal Painballers are supposed to be a looming threat throughout the whole book, yet no one seems all that concerned about them.
Then to add insult to injury, the entire battle with the Painballers, indeed, the entire end of the book, was apparently written by my three (almost four!) year old – “Very much smoke!
I saw it!” Why was Adam even with the Painballers?
I’m sad to say, especially since I like YOTF more than I thought I did, but I think that Oryx & Crake should have been a stand-alone book.
When Atwood first released Oryx and Crake, the post-apocalypse wasn’t as fun and romanticized as it is right now – hard to imagine I know but ….: the Walking Dead was not yet on TV, Red Dawn had not yet been remade, and main stream romance publishing houses weren’t regularly releasing post-apocalypse romance themed books.
Instead Atwood’s book (and series) is really a critique of what she sees as a major movement in our culture and our world – corporate control and dominance.
Readers who enjoy Margaret Atwood books or readers who read science fiction/post-apocalypse books to think about broader concepts beyond just the story would enjoy this trilogy.
Margaret Atwood refers to it as a piece of speculative fiction because "...it does not include any technologies or biobeings that do not already exist, are under construction, or are not possible in theory." It can be read and admired on its own terms, but a reader unfamiliar with her earlier works, Oryx and Crake and The Year of the Flood, would be wise to at least read their Wikipedia entries before reading this.
I'm not a big fan of dystopian or speculative fiction, but whenever Atwood speaks, I listen.
I was so excited about this last book of the MaddAddam trilogy and I saw the book in Waterstones couple of weeks in hardcover.
I am amazed still by the content, imagination and cleverness of this story and this great writer.
Yes the first book was amazing, mindboggling, what's happening here...
Touching story, those people you got to know in the previous books get closer, the beautiful way of writing and decribing the scenes, it's even more personal and it's closure.
Yes, there are elements in this story which were...
What a great story, what a great writer.
Μπορεί όσα περιγράφει για το πριν να μην είναι αληθινά, αλλά τίποτα δεν τα αποτρέπει από το να γίνουν.
Η πένα της Άτγουντ ώρες ώρες δρα προειδοποιητικά για το πόσο μπορεί να αλλάξει ο κόσμος όταν εμείς δεν το περιμένουμε (βλ και το Handmaid's Tale, σύντομα στην τηλεόραση...).
δεν ξέρω, απλά δεν μου άρεσε όσο τα προηγούμενα, ιδίως όσο το πρώτο που έβαλε τα θεμέλια για την ιστορία...
θα έλεγα ότι μου φάνηκε πολύ πρωτόγονο, αλλά από την άλλη, τι περίμενα όταν ουσιαστικά ο κόσμος έχει καταστραφεί; Το είχε πει και ο Αϊνσταίν, ότι ανεξάρτητα με ποιο όπλο θα γίνει ο τρίτος παγκόσμιος πόλεμος, ο τέταρτος θα γίνει με ρόπαλα...
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked”-Book of Geneis, King James BibleThere’s something that has always bothered me about the Bible’s version of the Adam and Eve story, and of the fall of Eve. It bothered me when I first read the story in Sunday school, it bothered me when my AP English class in high school studied Genesis, and it continues to bother me to this day: God tells Adam not to eat from the tree of life, because if he does he’ll die.
The god who created us also lied to us, and the devil who damned us opened our eyes to the truth.This all a long-winded way of saying that the Margaret Atwood’s Maddaddam trilogy is a futuristic version of the story of Adam and Eve, and it’s fucking brilliant.
It was my first Atwood, none of my friends knew about her (I was still at uni at the time) and people thought I was on the crazy train when it didn't win the Booker.Strangely, my impressions of Oryx & Crake kept me from reading the other two books in the trilogy as soon as they were published, and I only managed to remedy this over the past couple of months.I kinda wish I hadn't.
I never really knew whether to believe him or not, and that made reading quite fantastic.Year of the Flood is basically the companion piece told from the view of Toby, a tough but sane, survivor of the Flood.
It's impossible to recommend this book without recommending the entire trilogy, which I do with enthusiasm. Not many of my friends are interested in dystopian literature and I understand that -- you really have to dig to find the best of the genre. However, as the author has pointed out, everything in the series is plausible as an extension of things that already exist in our world today -- gene splicing, technology, mind and body altering techniques, surveillance et al. But what makes it all so delicious is the author's irreverent, sardonic and in the end, profoundly compassionate voice.
Here is something that started off a bit more distant than that.
Some of the surviving characters from the second book in the trilogy seem oddly flat in their world of survival.
They seem static, distant, and disaffected (although maybe that's the effect of reading it immediately after Middlemarch?), and their backstories and flashbacks seem a bit dry.
However, the end was a bit more sensitive and tender, and it provided something like a sense of hope and closure in this new world.
It is a good tragedy, and the end of the world comes with music and flowers.Let us sing.
Qué tristeza dar tan solo dos estrellas a un libro de Margaret Atwood, y más al que finaliza la fantástica historia comenzada en Oryx y Crake.Oryx y Crake y El año del diluvio discurren paralelas en el tiempo, y a pesar de que la segunda es, lógicamente, menos sorprendente y novedosa, se complementan a la perfección: la misma historia contada desde distintos puntos de vista, interesantes ambos.Pero este tercer volumen...
Está contada con Toby como protagonista en el presente, saltando al pasado cuando Zeb cuenta su propia historia, volviendo a lo narrado en los anteriores libros una y otra vez.En el presente, los problemas que se plantean para el futuro carecen de todo sentido, y tengo la impresión de que los personajes están desdibujados, desaparecen o son casi irreconocibles.
I totally agree to Paquita Maria Sanchez' review of July 2014. Margaret Atwood has been one of my favorite authors for a long time, so it almost hurts me to say that I would have rated MaddAddam only 3 stars for most of the book. I mean, how many witty wisecracks can a person handle when nothing substantial is happening story-wise? The ending was wonderful though. If mankind's fate would unfold in this way, I find it a very comforting idea. So, Margaret, thanks for that truly uplifting ending! And good luck to Blackbeard et al!
After finishing this book, I read both the good and bad reviews to help sort out my own thinking on Margaret Atwood's conclusion to the 'Oryx and Crake' trilogy.
After I get over my own frustration at not receiving what I wanted/expected, I realize that Atwood's approach moves the story much further forward, and offers a stronger and fuller message than if she were to stick with the approach present in the previous books.
Finally, and perhaps the most important reason why Atwood's approach with this book and reader expectations is incredibly well crafted: this is not a story about Jimmy, Toby, Ren, Amanda or any of the other previous characters we have know and may or may not have loved.
Before I read this book I read or reread “Oryx and Crake” and “The Year of the Flood”.
It’s not a stand alone book in my opinion.
Atwood is a Goddess of metaphors and she out did herself throughout these books in that area.
She’s concentrated on staying alive but also in being fully human which includes love for her partner and for the larger group.
I loved the bee lore that’s sprinkled throughout the book.
Consequently it’s comforting to have him around in this end of the world scenario.
Oryx and Crake was a wonderful book: a story of sweeping scope, lyrically written and character that were unforgettable.
Year of the Flood drove the story to new levels, gave depth to the parable and, again, created some wonderful characters (Zeb, Toby and Adam) to join Oryx, Crake and Jimmy from the Crake book.MaddAddam does nothing to extend the story; the characters are drab, lifeless...you will actually develop a distaste for a couple of favorites from the first two books.
Her beautiful writing never sees the ink of print in this book.If you have not read Crake or Flood, skip this book.
An interesting foray into the nature of religion, myth making, genetic revolution and the ideas of the Noble Savage. Communing with nature and depths of one’s consciousness included. I enjoyed this part very much, probably more than the other two. It's intelligent, funny and poignant in places. Granted, you have to suspend belief, but it’s the same way you have to suspend belief when reading Murakami’s 1Q84.
"People need such stories, Pilar said once, because however dark, a darkness with voices in it is better than a silent void." Maybe being the last in the trilogy, MaddAddam also gets high marks for the resolution: a strange mix of resigned sadness, more like grief, and hope.
She gives us not the end of the story, but its next chapter.
She gives the Crakers written language - not just oral story-telling.
There may be no hope that we can prevent our fall, but overall, the pigoons and the Crakers and the stories being passed on is maybe enough for our regeneration.Thank you.
