https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24840.Chimera
Lucky stars or indulgent gods I guess.Anywho, John Barth re+(tales|tails|tells) two Greek myths (and one Persian frame) into an anachronistic book of three novellas.
By the end it felt a bit like watching a biche de mer (sea cucumber) vomit its intestines into a funky twin story.
Like an ouroboros the tail of this story snakes around into a self-eating, circular POMO myth that ends in the stars, or perhaps not.
The third and longest novella "Bellerophoniad" bleats, bellows and tells the story of Bellerophon, another Greek hero seeking sex, drugs, adventure and immortality like Perseus and the rest of us mere mortals and wannabe demigoddamwriters.
For her part (she would go on--what a wife was this!), she took what she was pleased to term the Tragic View of Marriage and Parenthood: reckoning together their joys and griefs must inevitable show a net loss, if only because like life itself their attrition was constant and their term mortal.
I enjoyed the second and third elements of the novel more than Calasso's marriage.
I halted my reading last night and turned to youtube.
Instead I watched interviews with John Barth and eventually discussions of Leopardi's Zibaldone.
I pondered the historical arc of narrative and sighed, considering Barth's taxonomy of the endeavor.
On the one hand John Barth threshed with the flail of his imagination many folklore and mythological archetypes to trash.Polyeidus had a daughter, who knows by whom.
Honey-locusts grew there, shrouded by rank creepers and wild grape that spread amid a labyrinth of paths.And on the other hand he sacrilegiously turned the myths into the colourful intellectual mazes.
I've read a thousand tales about treasures that nobody can find the key to, we have the key and can't find the treasure.So John Barth managed to combine the three incongruous ingredients: lion, goat and snake – the past, the present and the impossible into a real fire-breathing monster Chimera.
As an exercise in “belletristic masturbation”, it’s more flop than master stroke:"To the artist himself, however minor his talent, imaginative potency is as crucial to the daily life of his spirit as sexual potency..."Dunyazadiad (as Retold by John Barth in the Style of Robert Coover)"When we’d had enough of each other’s tongues and fingers, Sherry and I called in the eunuchs, maidservants, mamelukes, pet dogs and monkeys; then we finished off with Sherry’s Bag of Tricks."Afterwards, Sherry kissed me and said dreamily, 'Little Doony, pretend this whole situation is the plot of a story we’re reading, and you and I and Daddy and the King are all fictional characters.
He aims for mythic significance, but the cosmic scope of his stories keeps getting mixed together with the very un-cosmic matter of John Barth, 20th century American writer, trying to think of words to put on the page.
This manifests itself most obviously in two ways: his metafictional bent (he likes to write stories that are about their own telling -- a perilous endeavour, since "John Barth wrote a book" isn't a very good story), and his injection of 20th-century language and attitudes into other times and places (usually played for comedy, but not very successfully).In Giles Goat-Boy, this all worked, because the tension between Barth's impressive craftsmanship and his silliness felt like a deliberate balancing act.
Barthian "treatments" of mythological mainstays - and ends up himself, he the myth after all.
A Chimera? More like an ourobouros...Barth probes, prods, anatomizes, decenters, and renews the story-telling "thing" (to use one of many infectious Barthian colloquialisms, which give a winking, wry face to the monstrous ambition that bristles and bubbles behind the word-munchers specs) to a degree that seems almost to outsize the authors most beloved pet subject: that very "thing" itself: tales and telling, told and listening.The style, as I mentioned, is energetic and folksy, and shifts in re
Barth has been called (by Gass, a master-critic as well as writer) a "logician" and in "Chimera" all arguments (the word also means "plot") seek and follow their absurdums, like St Thomas did his precious "telos": that it, to the point of tedium: ad absurdum becomes ad nauseam over the course of endless(and this is another Barthian favorite:) "etcetera"s till it...and here´s the saving touch that Barth applies to transmogrify chaos into art...careens (one might say "ascends" but I like the idea of Barth´s tales spiralling down their paths driven by their own mad momentum) to a sublime finish...fireworks, sparks, cue music, "etcetera..."
Мислех си, че съм прочела не една-две странни книги до този момент, но след "Химера" съм възторжено вдъхновена, че винаги зад ъгъла те дебне някое литературно гурме!
It's best to put a little effort into it up front; look up the dozen or so character names he deals out when a story starts, reread little bits early on if you have to, because once Barth gets going he really is the virtuoso he describes.
I had some passing acquaintance with these stories before Chimera but now I feel like I really know them, and in this respect I really have to give kudos to Mr. Barth.
I will never look at Amazons the same way again.
Това ми позволи да прочета третата част след няколкомесечна пауза, деляща я от другите две.В тези три новели, да кажем, Джон Барт нѐ препраща, а направо хвърля през глава читателя във водопад от митологични имена и сюжети.
Сякаш с това Барт ни намига и ни подказва, че четенето само по себе си е придобивката от тази книга.
Отначало се ядосвах защо в книгата почти няма бележки под линия, които може би за мнозина читатели биха били жизнено необходими.
Но захвърлих тази идея, понеже сякаш не това е била целта на книгата или на автора.
dnf - not a big fan of mythology or metafiction so it appears CHIMERA and I were not meant to be together. Ah, it's alright, Mr. Barth, THE FLOATING OPERA was fantastic and I'll be reading END OF THE ROAD and SOT-WEED soon.
Well, here is another book that I have owned forever and just now got around to reading fully.
This requires a bit of background.The first time I started reading Chimera I got through the first novella, and gave up halfway through the second.
The second time, I got a tad bit further...
this time, I nearly gave up through the third story.
Nonetheless, I did plow through.
Plowed through.
Finishing Chimera felt a bit like one of the 12 tasks of Hercules, unfortunately.
The second story, Perseid, becomes a lot more dense.
Frame of reference was better suited for a story with a generally likable protagonist.
Judging by what I've read about Barth's other works, "meta-" seems to be his thing.In Chimera, he retells 1001 Nights, the myth of Perseus, and the myth of Bellepheron with the intention of exploring why we continue to study the myths while simultaneously recasting them in a post-freudian language that tries to flesh out how such things could actually come to pass (which can't really be done) .
and for writers, since the purpose of the meta-fiction here is to study the significance of literature, this is well worth your while.
This book is a very mixed bag for me.
The first of the three parts is beautiful, funny, witty and insightful.
It's also by far the shortest and most successful.
Part two, focused on Perseus, is an enjoyable little romp, if perhaps not as poignant as the opening story and certainly not as tightly written.
Part three, however, is what knocks stars off my ranking for this book, as Barth launches into a cascade of silliness and post-modern literary pyrotechnics that, while intellectually stimulating, don't offer much in the way of keeping one's heart and soul as invested in the story.
Особена среща. Изключително зле подготвена се усетих за тази книга, защото познавам старогръцката митология доста повърхностно. От друга страна адски ми допадна идеята на Барт за мъжа герой, който, потънал в унеса на собствената си история и глас, отрязва всички достойни жени край себе си. Мъчна за четене ми беше, но изобщо не съжалявам за предизвикателството. За пореден път поздравявам "Лист" за интелигентния избор на заглавия и хармоничността между текст и корица. Много е освежаващо издателство да не робува на жанрове и стилове в оформлението.
Barth at his best, however, takes metafiction to a place of wild cosmological insight.
And Chimera is emphatically Barth at his best.
But a text is a thing in itself as well as a nest of contexts.
It is not until fairly late in the third piece, "Bellerophoniad," where Barth takes us deep through the concentric layers of the business of myth and literature to the heart and crust of the thing, and it is far more staggering (and a profundity worthy of laughter and merriment) than I would have imagined possible.
The book starts great.

This is a meta-book connecting three novellas, all three of which are rewritten versions of ancient stories: The Thousand and One Nights, followed by the Greek myths of Perseus, then Bellerophon.
There is more than one narrator, and sometimes there is some comic disagreement about whose story it is, anyway.
This is clever and very amusing, though in my humble opinion, there were parts that went on a bit long--but then, the author does seem to be pointing out that--some tales do go on too long.
(Besides, Pegasus and Perseus are already constellations).
I've read this for my class and I didn't have time to finish it before I got spoiled the last part, ahah, so I'm not gonna finish Bellerophoniad.
However, I will consider this read because I do know what happened and I really wanna talk a little about the first two parts.
I loved how the author included himself and complicated the narrative by telling the stories from A Thousand and One Night to Sheherasada so she could recite them to the king.
At first Bellerophon's story looks just like Perseus's with some exceptions.
i'm still going to try the sot-weed factor someday, but from what i've read of barth so far, he is very...
not that he needs my readership: a lot of people much smarter than me love this guy (michael silverblatt, a hero, once called him his favourite living american writer), and i have to believe they see something in him that i simply don't.
but the horny classics professor persona in this and the first few chapters of giles goat-boy were enough to send me running, and i think it's going to take a lot to bring me back.

ANYWAY, at 1st I was disappointed by this: I've just recently read "The Last Voyage of Somebody the Sailor" by Barth & given it a positive review.
There's also a VERY heavy dose of sexual politics - Barth tries to address issues of equality & role models, etc, but there's still a rampant male ego at work - not that I mind, mind you - I just wd like to read a feminist critique of this..
I only superficially looked at the reviews but I saw nary a mention of the sexual politics of the bk - wch seem to me to be a central theme.
Also a very funny book." This was my note in 1984, when I was reading Barth, Pynchon, Barthelme and others to discover new ways of writing as I worked on my first, still unpublished, novel.
"Chimera" is not so much a novel as an examination of itself, about how stories including this one are constructed — as New York Times reviewer Leonard Michaels summed up, "it consists of three parts retelling three ancient myths (the stories of Scheherazade, Perseus and Bellerophon), complicated together by accretions and repetitions, all in pursuit of a pattern it makes in that very pursuit.
Well the book says as much.)"Is it great literature?
But it sure is a great reading exercise for anyone who is trying to imagine how to tell a story.
John Barth's Chimera is a playful, oblique set of three linked novellas.
I have a fondness for Scheherazade/The Thousand and One Nights, so the Dunyazadiad was a perfect literary appetizer.
It's fun, thoughtful, well crafted and easily accessible.
Beyond that, the novellas become increasingly obtuse, more analytical and more rewarding.
That being written, the Perseid is a mostly straight forward examination of middle-aged mythic hero stuck in a rut.
The Bellerophoniad, while similar to the Perseid, is the real jewel of the book.
It's a fun, no-holds-barred, deconstructed, post-modern mess of a novella.
I'm happy I found and took a chance on this book.

"I'm full of voices, all mine, none me."This book is a work of absolute genius. Love it or hate it, no one could deny that Barth's mind is astonishing. Chimera's complex layering, nesting, spiraling, and spinning, its stories-within-stories-within-stories, its use of palimpsest, pastiche, and collage will leave me reeling for days. A deliciously mind-bending piece of metafiction that will make you think about myth, narrative, and the self in entirely new ways.
Стана ми любима от първата страница. Защото вътре са и Приказките на Шехерезада, и митовете за Персей и Горгоната Медуза, и за Белерофонт и Химера. И разсъжденията на един мъж от ХХ век за секса, любовта, съпружеството и изкуството на писането и разказването. Чудовищно добра книга!
Extremely good and funny book
SCHEHERAZADE AND HER OFFSPRING----"A THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS, ARABIAN ENTERTAINMENT," JOHN BARTH'S "DUNYAZADIAD," ITALO CALVINO'S "INVISIBLE CITIES," GÜNELI GÜN'S "ROAD FROM BAGHDAD," AND ASSIA DJEBAR'S "A SISTER TO SHEHERAZADE"----FROM THE WORLD LITERATURE FORUM RECOMMENDED CLASSICS AND MASTERPIECES SERIES VIA GOODREADS—-ROBERT SHEPPARD, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF"The Thousand and One Nights," or "Alf Layla Wa Layla," is often considered the archetypal narrative text, or the "Mother of All Narrative," and this may well explain the universal scope of its appeal and enduring influence over the millennia as one of the central classics of World Literature.
Chimera is a set of three novellas, each a pseudo-retelling of a myth (if one counts Scheherazade's narration of the Thousand and One Nights as a myth).
Well, as Barth makes clear, the nature of myths is that there's no Ur-myth; all myth is Form, no myth is Ideal.) These novellas are narrated by Dunyazade, Perseus, and Bellerophon respectively, but then also they're regularly broken into by Barth in the form of one or another shape-shifter.
