https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36425796-shelter-in-place
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...4.5 Stars!!  “Sometimes, there is nowhere safe to hide.” It’s been a while since I’ve read a book from Nora Roberts. When I came across this novel, I read the description and immediately added it to the top of my list.In my opinion, “Shelter in Place” was another great read from Nora Roberts!!Friday, July 22, 2005Simone Knox and her two best friends, Tish and Mi are at the DownEast mall to see a movie. Simone orders what she
When I came across this novel, I read the description and immediately added it to the top of my list.In my opinion, “Shelter in Place” was another great read from Nora Roberts!!Friday, July 22, 2005Simone Knox and her two best friends, Tish and Mi are at the DownEast mall to see a movie.
All of a sudden, the theatre door slams open and a man covered in blood comes stumbling out…
He's just finishing up his break when he hears popping noises...then screaming.
Nora Roberts sure knows how to write a gripping plot along with fantastic characters including diabolical villains.
Shelter in Place 8 minutes - a mass shooting - a physical and emotional aftermath that leaves countless lives changed foreverThis was a gut wrenching book to read in light of the mass shootings we have endured but I found it well written.
Roberts' focus wasn't solely on the shooting itself.
The book fast forwards and focuses instead mainly on the after effects of the shooting - on the lives of the victims and heroes and on the true mastermind behind the plot's warped quest for vengeance.
Overall, it wasn't my favorite Nora Roberts read but it definitely rates among the top 5.
It really gets in-depth with what happens with those who survived and how their lives were changed.So, the book is divided into sections.The first part is the shooting itself.
It was sad and horrible.The second part of the book goes through a lot of years telling us about several different characters and their lives after the shootings.
But, I know it was important to bring us to the third part of the story.The third section of the book is a romance that develops between two of the characters, along with a murder-mystery of sorts.
Survivors Reed Quartermaine and Simone Knox followed paths that weren’t part of their original destinies until that event in the mall.
I first thought this was going to be a story about a mass shooting and the immediate aftermath, more about the pursuit of the attackers and those involved in the investigation.
Reed and Simone may be the central characters to anchor the story but there’s a richness to the breadth and angles of the lives of those that surround them and others.
All of this is in the midst of a really diabolical character connected to the mall shooting.
I had just come off of reading the ARC for Year One - a masterful new direction for Nora due out December 5th - and I was apprehensive that Shelter in Place would fall flat in it's heels, or worse, having Nora losing some fans.By page 25, Shelter in Place already met one of my criteria for a ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️rating, but I was still concerned over the subject matter.
What I read was a fast-flowing, grab your attention story that flowed so well you were quickly thirteen years removed from the tragedy and into a typical Nora Roberts romantic suspense novel that reminded you it is just a story.
I’ve never come across another author who can make me care as deeply about her characters or make me feel their joys and sorrows more profoundly.With this novel, Nora broaches a topic that is unfortunately all too common in our modern world: mass shootings.
There’s no one else quite like her, and she felt incredibly real to me.I don’t want to name any other characters or go into much more detail, because I don’t want to spoil anything for those who decide to pick up this book.
I'm so torn on how to rate this one.
There were quite a few positive points but there were also quite a few negative points.
The FBI became the cliche of incompetence which gets old.
Reed always saying he would run off with Simone's grandmother got old fast (cliche as well) and sometimes just was ick.
And Simone's family issues felt more contrived than real.
The ending felt like a let down.So much potential but...
The author delivered a tale that kept me glued to the pages, as well as utterly captivated.Nora Roberts chose a topic that gives me goose bumps every single time I hear of it in the news.
She took this topic and spun a story that was utterly fascinating and captivating from beginning to end.
Reed Quartermaine and Simone Knox were mature and level-headed, something Nora Roberts excels at.
At the end Shelter in Place was a piece of fiction, but it was based on events that unfortunately happen all over America, in schools, malls, and outdoor functions.
Just when I think I know exactly what I'm getting into, Ms. Roberts regales with something entirely unexpected and creepy-current.
I ate this book up in a short time because it was so intriguing with amazing characters.
This is my favorite Nora Roberts book to date that I have read so far (have not read all her books though).
The angst, perseverance, and growth of these characters is so detailed and effective to getting the reader pulled in and invested into the story.
I really do not want to give too much away and spoil the book, but this book deserves a spot on the reading list for most!
My quick and simple overall: Incredible book that draws the readers in quickly.
Until the shots started, and the screaming began…Portland, Maine made headlines from the carnage that night – the three teenage shooters didn’t live to tell the tale; neither did a lot of other innocent people.
But behind the scenes, as the survivors rebuilt their lives, was an angry psychopath, committed to finishing what was started in that shopping mall…Shelter in Place by the inimitable Nora Roberts is another outstanding and spectacular psychological thriller which kept me glued to the pages.
Gripping, intense, heartbreaking and emotional, the suspense kept my heart racing - Shelter in Place is one I highly recommend.With thanks to Hachette AU for my ARC to read and review.
😬Also, this book show how Ms. Roberts stands regarding the horrific guns crimes who is keep happening in the US and slaughter the children month after month after month after month!
🤔😘.Okay, this is out of the book review already, but yeah from what I write here, you can see I’m one of those befuddled foreign mum who is never ever understand how children keep slaughtering by guns in schools and the most powerful government in the world couldn’t do anything to prevent it!That’s it, read this book, the scars from shooting sprees continues long after the victims buried 😢.It’s a heartbreaking story really...💔
Shelter In Place has to be one of my favourite novels by Nora Roberts.The story begins with a mass shooting at a mall in the U.S. followed by a related killer out to murder the survivors.However, the subsequent events in the lives of the victims are portrayed as happy and positive moments as the years go by.It's a story of tragedy, love, family and friendship but most of all a story about survival.Loved it!
This was an intense, emotional book detailing the aftermath of a fictional mass shooting in Maine.
As a warning, with all the mass shootings that have been occurring recently in the US, the first part of the book can be pretty intense to read.
I found it quite triggering.
Much of the narrative jumps forward in time after that and looks at the after-effect on the survivors, and the investigation as police try to determine if the shooters acted alone.
One of my favorite Nora Roberts books to date!
5/5 stars.Trigger Warnings: (view spoiler)[ mass shootings, murder LOTS of murder  (hide spoiler)]Please excuse typos/name misspellings.
*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.com3.5 starsMy book club read this month is Shelter in Place, the latest standalone novel by Norah Roberts, an author that does not need any introduction.
Her worldwide appeal and long list of popular book series, mostly of the romance fare, has secured her a permanent place on the bestsellers list.
Shelter in Place begins with a mass shooting in a shopping mall in a town in Maine, in the US.
Shelter in Place focuses on the emotional character dramas of two survivors, Simone and Reed, their polarising experiences and eventual fateful romance.
Trigger warning: mass shootingNora Roberts has been traveling some dark roads lately and I for one am not finding myself loving the results.
There is a romance, eventually, between two survivors of a mass shooting but the road to get there makes the overall romance arc a bit of a throwaway.
About 40% of the novel is a very detailed account of the mass shooting from various character perspectives, the immediate aftermath, and years of separate character development for the main male and female characters who eventually meet up and fall into destined love.
In Shelter in Place, Nora Roberts dishes out a sensitive/timely tale with a gut punching opening. It’s been a while since I’ve read a Roberts novel but in this one she continues to have compelling characters and twists. For the most part this was a gripping read, full of suspense with a touch of romance. I think it’s a must read for the romantic suspense fan.
Meeting today’s headlines head-on with a mass shooting, Nora Roberts’ latest release may be a trigger (no pun intended) for many readers.
The psychological and intriguing plot immediately seizes your attention from the first page to the last.Simone Knox and Reed Quartermaine are survivors.
And that’s all I’m sayin’ folks because spoilers aren’t my thing!The romantic connection between Reed and Simone doesn’t come until late in the telling – thirteen years after the mall shooting.
Not only does CiCi play matchmaker, she helps Reed with his dream house and in obtaining a new position as police chief in his hometown, too.
As I’ve come to expect from Nora Roberts this was a well written, straightforward read with interesting, varied well-rounded characters, who were easy to connect with.
The final confrontation with the killer was long overdue, as I slogged through chapter after chapter waiting for him/her to finally make an appearance.
The crime portion was well done, as were the police procedural parts, even though the killer was almost super human in what they managed to get away with, and the body count was ridiculously high.
A good read, but I’ve read better books by this author.
Roberts grabs you from the first page and doesn’t let go!
Roberts is excellent at this, putting together some very compelling protagonists that you end up really understanding.
Again, in this aspect, she reminds me of Stephen King and Dean Koontz.And we come to the event that starts the whole story - a mass shooting.
I’m always horrified at the news of another mass shooting, which seem to plague the US.
Since Roberts is known often for her romances, I wouldn’t recommend this title if you’re looking only for that.
However, if you’re looking for a page-turner suspense, then by all means, dive in :O)
4.5 Surviving Stars I Honestly struggled with how to review this one - with all the mass shootings in our conflicted society today, which seem to be happening in alarming frequency, I knew going in it would have to take a talented author to tackle a subject that many would find taboo and even fewer would attempt to write about something so tragic and a very real scenario. That said this book kept me enthralled. I was drawn into this story, a story that starts out so gut wrenching and heart brea
I Honestly struggled with how to review this one - with all the mass shootings in our conflicted society today, which seem to be happening in alarming frequency, I knew going in it would have to take a talented author to tackle a subject that many would find taboo and even fewer would attempt to write about something so tragic and a very real scenario.
This story starts out with three high school best friends going to a mall movie theater, a college student working the summer at the mall’s Italian restaurant, his buddy working at the gaming store, and countless kids, adults, families working or enjoying a summer day at the mall.
Advanced Reader Copy (ARC) provided by the Author and Publisher in exchange for an fair and honest review.Suspense - Thriller - Nasty Baddie all work great.
This book works great on the Suspense/Thriller level, on the Romance level - not at all.
Each is a fully formed character and that is so rare in most books.
Sixteen year old Simone was out to the movies in the mall with her girlfriends.
Nineteen year old Reed is on a break from his waiter job.
He ends up saving a four year old boy.
68 on 20 copies.It was so worth the wait.This story not only jumped off the pages but it was like the "Law and Order" series disclaimer it was "ripped from the headlines".It had so much realism, which made me a little sad but what a wonderfully crafted, suspenseful and thrilling tale in this age of gun violence.
All the characters in this book were fascinating to me, they like this story also evolved over time - more than 13 years to be precise .I really wanted to bite at my nails for the last portion of the story as it was so suspenseful (I am not good at dealing with that in either movies or books).
As dark as the subject matter of a mass shooting in a mall can be, this had some really light & tender hearted moments. That’s the beauty of Nora Roberts. Reading her books is like slipping on your favorite sweats. Every damn time. Thanks to St. Martins Press for this early finished copy.
Nora Roberts’ latest reads a lot like one of her JD Robb books, with a serial killer on the loose.
Out of nowhere, more than a decade after the shooting, we get the highly improbable story line of a disturbed person who is stalking and killing survivors of the original shooting.
Finally we get a love story involving two of the survivors, who, of course, are targets of the killer.This is not one of Roberts’ greatest hits.
The love story is sweet though not as fully developed as you get in the usual Roberts novel.
I didn’t like the heroine and couldn’t feel the chemistry between the hero and heroine.
The heroine’s grandmother had more chemistry with the hero than she did.
I greatly enjoyed the relationship between the hero and the grandmother so much more than the boring one he had with the heroine.The romance, such as it was, comprised about 15% of the surprisingly long book.
The rest of it was the shooting in the past; after which came many, many POVs, including the killer and his victims.
Best beginning to a Roberts book...totally grabs you and smacks you around!
Part psychological thriller, part romantic suspense and part coming of age for a group who survive one of the horrors of present day life, a mass shooter event.This book starts with a mass shooting perpetrated by three teenage males at a suburban mall.
Simone runs from the memories at first, but through her art she begins to heal and then begins to memorialize the loved ones lost on that day in the mall.
I love Nora Roberts’ books and characters.
Shelter in Place4.5 StarsNora Roberts does it again!The first 3rd of this book is absolutely incredible - the descriptions of the mass shooting and its aftermath are so intense and gripping that one feels as if they are experiencing the events with the characters.
Reed Quatermaine fulfills his need to protect by becoming a police officer and Simone Knox channels her pain into her art.
There are no real obstacles to Reed and Simone's love story and their chemistry is very subtle.
Overall, Shelter in Place is a well-written page turner highly recommended for both newbies and fans of Nora's works.
Probably one of the most intense books, not to mention horrific I have read from this author in a really long time.It was amazing. Emotional, terrifying, and heartwarming, all rolled into one couldn't put it down, addicting read.
