https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5454.The_Second_Summer_of_the_Sisterhood
Tibby - I was pretty disappointed in Tibby, and while it's realistic that she wouldn't have changed overnight after the events of book 1, I just was annoyed with her storyline 90% of the time.Lena - I seriously cannot deal with the insta-love going on with her story.
There is so much potential in Tibby and Bridget's stories and while I'm told 'this is a sad thing' over and over, I'm not really seeing them reacting.We spend so little time in each character's POV before it switches to the next girl that I feel like I'm only getting to know them on a surface level despite the very important topics the book is trying to get at.
I am so glad I did!This book seemed more realistically teenaged-girl, both the good and bad.
The girls had to face things in their lives that they could avoid as children, and came out stronger.Though other people criticized the way that Bee changed, I thought it was actually a pretty accurate depiction of a girl hurt by her early sexual experience.
Teenagers experiment with their appearance and stereotype all the time, and Bee did not have a family to try to steer her course.For whatever reason this book just touched me in a way that the first one didn't.
I like book series that age with their audience, and I think this one has really managed to do that.
3/5 stars “She used to cry roughly three times a year. Now she seemed to cry three times before breakfast. Could that be considered progress?”I enjoyed the 1st book of this series much, much more. The only thing that improved in the book two was the writing - it was more refined and less juvenile, but unfortunately that was the end of improvements. “She got tired of herself. She got tired of not being able to say what she wanted or do what she wanted or even want what she wanted.”The only charac
She got tired of not being able to say what she wanted or do what she wanted or even want what she wanted.”The only character that had an appealing and meaningful story was Bee, everybody else's storylines were just a mess.
Her story arc was exactly the same as in the first book, but with a different parent - total waste of time.
Lena was my favorite in book one because she had personality - she loved art, books and she knew what she wanted from the world.
Lena in book two was a lovesick puppy with absolutely no personality left - it was disheartening to read.
2.5 stars.I feel like it took me a whole month to finish this book more because I couldn't deal with anyone but Bee than because I was reading it in Swedish and trying to write down all the words I didn't know.Seriously though, I expected much more from Tibby and Lena only to be so horribly disappointed by both of their arcs.
Carmen's story line was even interesting compared to these two but...
Bee's story line is what saved this book to be completely honest.
I'm sad that Lena's whole story line revolves around Kostos - it's like I wasn't even reading about her.
All so I can *finally* read the final book in the series, Sisterhood Everlasting.I found that I was annoyed by most of the girls (with the exception of Bridget) all through this second book in the series.
Shame on you, Tibby.Lena - Lena's pining over Kostos was annoying since it was she that broke things off.
Was he supposed to magically understand why and then pine after you till the end of time?
I loved reading about her summer with Greta.Not my favorite book in the series but I'm still looking forward to continuing my reread of the series.
I love the honesty in these books - they really are something special. They tackle a variety of issues and these four girls are some of the realest and relatable ones in young adult contemporary. And you want female friendships? CHECK CHECK CHECK, this series is overflowing with women holding up other women and it's just wonderful and was really ahead of it's time and I just love it soooo much. On to reread book 3!! :D
Who knew the second book could be as good as the first?You'd think the plot wouldn't work as well, with Tibby so close to home, and Lena and Carmen not going away.
I couldn't help but think about her mum, and worry that Bee was going to turn out like her.
Now all we need is for Tibby to realise that Brian is crazily in love with her, and they can both live happily ever after.Lena changed, but I'm not sure if she grew.
I needed friends like that there for me, just on behalf of Lena!
Better than the first. The ending made me angry and sad though. Poor, poor Lena.
I forgot what Kostas did! Ugh!
The pants are back! Here they are to give these wonderful friends the summer they have all been waiting for. I hope this book is as good as the first one! As same as in the first book of the sisterhood the author Ann Brashares uses the technique of putting for stories in 1 because each friend is living a different life, this author uses a great word choice “ whirlwind, hiatus, clunking, but’ she doesn’t use much word repetition, and I also love how she characterizes the new characters and the i
Lena is another member from the sisterhood, This summer she is very depressed she misses her ex-boyfriend Kostos who she met the past summer in Greece when she went to visit her grandmother.
One night Lena went to visit Kostos; she needed to talk to him, she explained all her feelings and then Kostos said that she didn’t have a girlfriend and that he still loved her.
At the end of the summer Lena goes to Greece becuase her grandfather died and she finds out that Kostos is getting married.
Onto the book itself - I kind of wanted to strangle all of the characters.
WASH THOSE FUCKING JEANS.
I'm sorry, but you cannot pass a pair of jeans between four teenage girls over the course of two summers and NOT get blood on them at some point.
WASH THE JEANS.
While I appreciate that the lessons that the girls learnt the previous summer wouldn't necessarily have stuck because, like, THEY'RE TEENAGERS, it would have been nice for them to not make the exact same mistakes that they made the previous year.
I continue to detest Carmen and her childish behavior--yes, I realize she's a teenager, but I couldn't stand to read how supposedly she was so sad to hurt people's feelings and then she'd just go ahead and do it anyway.
I'm not sure I'm going to continue reading the rest of the books--the characters are NEVER happy and go on for pages and pages about their own self-woe and doubt.
They spend chapters beating themselves up for their dumb mistakes and then never seem to learn from them.
It might just be too much dumb girl emotion for me.
Onvan : The Second Summer of the Sisterhood (Sisterhood, #2) - Nevisande : Ann Brashares - ISBN : 385731051 - ISBN13 : 9780385731058 - Dar 373 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2003
So if I make mistakes in this review then bear with me :)The Travelling Pants, the Magic Pants, the Pants that helped the 4 girls have a great summer the last year are now not helping at all.
But it was a bit too much here because everyone had it hard, there was not one of the girls who started out good in the summer.
But I'm probably expecting too much of a teenage book.Other than that I enjoyed reading this book as it's still lighthearted and kind of brings me back to my teenage years (they were not as adventurous and memorable as for the girls in the book though).I can't wait to read the next one and I can't wait to someday watch the movie adaptation.

Wow, what a whirlwind, the second summer was just as exciting as the first but definitely more emotion-filled. The girls seem to hone in on their own personal journeys and the theme is about their mothers. It is a beautifully woven story that had me tearing up at some parts and it helped me to see different aspects of the girls’ personalities and strengths. At times it was a bit slow which can make the story drag out, but for the most part I really enjoyed myself. Can’t wait to read the third installment.
Basta una telefonata, una lettere, una mail, un sms lungo chilometri, con la certezza che, finita l'estate, vi ritroverete più unite che mai.Pensate come sarebbe leggere questo libro a tredici anni, quando voi siete relegate a casa perché i vostri genitori lavorano dodici mesi all'anno e le vostre amiche, invece, sono state trascinate in vacanza in qualche luogo bellissimo.
Vi mettete il costume da bagno, andate in spiaggia, ma non ci volete stare: senza le amiche che vi consolano c'è da sentirsi brutte, fuori luogo, con le gambe troppo corte e il seno troppo grande, e come spiegare a vostra sorella più piccola che non potete più giocare a racchette, che voi siete grandi, e se lo fate magari vi si abbassa il reggiseno?
For a while there, I was getting so frustrated with this book, and how irritating most of the girls were being.
Then I get to the end, and I remembered why it was one of my favorite in the series.
Each of the girls had a huge hurdle to climb in this book, and in a way, this book was a turning point in all of their lives.
Bee will forever be my favorite character in these books, but I can honestly say I am loving rereading the series and reliving all the old feelings I had when I read them for the first time!
I listened to this on audio for a read along #pantsalong. I was hoping to like this as much as book one but it just was a bit boring and unrealistic. Just like the first book the quotes between each chapter just made no sense at all. Also the switching of POVs without notice still continued to make me confused and frustrated. Towards the end I was getting annoyed with the girls and wanted to know more about the parents. I have the next book and I'm debating on continuing or not.
Devo ammettere che anche per questo secondo libro avevo dei timori, perché vista con superficialità la storia alla base del libro può sembrare senza dubbio banale e durante le prime pagine di lettura la sensazione è quella.
Le vicende narrate mi hanno preso talmente tanto che gli stati d'animo dei vari personaggi li ho vissuti come se fossero i miei, e mi sono ritrovata spesso a rivivere alcune sensazioni già vissute e a pensare a come fosse brava l'autrice a sapere descrivere con così tanta precisione gli stati d'animo che anche io avevo provato in quella identica situazione.
Hahahaha I just looked back at my review of the first book, and I had made a point to say how much I disliked the audiobook and would be sure to read the rest of the series in print.
I didn't have any real issues with the narration this time, but it seemed like a sadder story than the first book so I guess the dourness of the narrator's voice worked better.
I was brought to tears thinking specifically of all the ways we are cruel and unfeeling toward our mothers at various points in our lives, and how mothers patiently accept this as part of their love for their children.
Rereading all 4 books this summer (after 10+ years) and reading for the first time Sisterhood Everlasting.Compared to the first book, this summer is about the girls overcoming difficult challenges and a lot of the relationship growth occurred between mothers and daughters, which was an interesting and relatable theme to explore.
My heart warms to see the growth and happiness these characters experience and there were definitely some beautiful moments that moved me to tears (we are 2 for 2 on that score now!)
I didn't like this at first, as one of the girls air headed all of a sudden and very unlikable.
Where the others were growing up.
But then I remembered, not everyone learns and grows at the same time.A few far fetched plot lines, but once again they are incoorperated well into the ultra realistic.
Beautiful writing, focusing on mothers and daughters, i liked the link between The September groups.
onto the next...Re/read 2016 I'm struck once again at the link between mothers & daughters.
B & her grandma, linked through hair and the loss of her Marley.
This book was about how four girls Lena, Tibby, Carmen and Bridget spend their summers apart from each other but still keeping contact through a pair of jeans.
Each girl goes to a different place but the jeans travel from place to place so that each girl has them over the summer for a certain amount of days.
I still enjoyed reading it though because I learned more about the girls and their experiences.I would recommend this book to teens and anyone who likes to travel.
From Lena's point of viewThis story was so good.
It has a lot of pain and love.
I cried a lot more than laughed.
Carmen surprised me by being very mean and selfish!
Her character in the movie is so different.
Lena's story in the book pained me so much just like Carmen's mom and her lover David.
I can't understand how Carmen was so mean and hateful like that!!!Bee broke my heart but she always gets up and push herself forward.
Tibby's love and sorrow for Bailey is so touching.
to tell you the truth I have not experienced grief.
Love them.
Love them.
Also reviewed at my blog, Sassy & Dangerous! http://sassyanddangerous.blogspot.mx/ I had hoped this book would change my mind about the series, but, unfortunately, it didn't. I kept putting off finishing this book because of how much it bored me. The characters were the same, annoying, bratty and frustrating. The plot was alright, it intrigued me a little bit more, but to be honest, I actually looked forward to reading about Carmen's mother! She was a lot more interesting than the girls!  Br
I enjoyed reading about her this time and I'm curious to know what she's going to be like in the next book.Carmen: It's hard enough on her that her father got married last summer and has a new family now, but she just can't deal with her mom having a new beau and so she sets out to destroy their relationship!First off..
She had a "I hate the world attitude and no one cares about me," and to be frank, it annoyed me.Overall, if I do decide to read the next book, I do hope the characters have a drastic change to their attitudes.
Year Two, still in love with the four girls. They grow up and they are becoming powerful women, all together. I'm adoring the saga!
Debo añadir que con el final me gusto un poco mas este segunda parte!, buenísimo si lo hubiera leído de adolescente!.Me encanta como se valora la amistad, es parte fundamental en nuestras vidas!.
I might have enjoyed this more if I were 12.
This series is so nostalgic for me. Brought this book along with me to my trip to Vegas two weeks ago and it made a nice addition. YA, so it was definitely an easy read. It's been a LONG time since I originally read these books so it's been interesting reading it now that I am older. I do still love the story and the idea behind the series even if it does come off cheesy at points. Looking forward to re-reading the third book next!
