https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4092011-the-film-mystery
Listened to Librivox.org podcast. Good mystery of the early 1920s. Interesting look into the movie industry of the times. If correct, as stated in story, many early nitrate films were used by the U.S. government of make explosives. Wonder how many movies were lost in that way? Would indulge in more of his work.
SlowIt was slow reading. Couldn't wait till the end so I could be done with it. i don't recommend it.
Enjoyable early 1920s mystery taking place in the early film industry.
A little talky - possibly too much exposition about the film industry.
I guess I just wasn't prepared for a twentieth century book to refer to "darkies".This was my first Craig Kennedy mystery.
Kennedy is some kind of crime professor and sidekick Walter is a reporter for a New York newspaper.I guessed a lot of wrong people too.The good thing is that this book was free on kindle.
So I'll probably look for more of the Craig Kennedy stories ...
as long as they're free or the next thing to.
This was an interesting free Kindle book.
The scientific method used by Craig Kennedy to solve the murders reminded me of Dr Temperance Brennan of "Bones" -- no conjectures or "feelings," etc -- just what can be gleaned from the evidence.
The murderer is unknown to the reader until the very last word on the last page (no peeking).
A few comments -- the author believes in phrenology, as was obvious in the first part of the book -- a person's, eg, forehead or chin could portend the person's character or intelligence.
It might have been common, and maybe even preferred(?), when the book was written -- I do not know!
I liked the book.
Detective Kennedy is like Sherlock Holmes and has his sidekick, Walter Jameson. They are called in by a District Attorney to look into the murder of a movie star. What follows is figuring out the puzzling trail of a calculating killer. There are other murders, attempted murders, etc. and lots of possible suspects. Kennedy investigates it thoroughly with scientific (what we would call forensic) methods and uncovers the murderer. Good writing and twists and turns. It was also interesting to hear about the movie business and how they do it in the past.
Detective Craig Kennedy solves a mystery with his sidekick, reporter, Walter Jameson. Sometimes called the American Sherlock Holmes, Kennedy uses science to solve crimes. This story revolves around the murder of an actress in the middle of shooting a movie called "The Black Terror". The story takes place during the silent era of films. I enjoyed the story and the setting.
After reading The Poisoned Pen, I feel I have to read all of Arthur Reeve's books ... and this one was even better! One of those mystery novels that I just couldn't put down - and I enjoyed the 1920s film references.Recommended for those who'd like a light but entertaining read ;)
It is recognized as the first novel centered around the motion picture industry. That part is interesting. The plot is pretty predictable. I found it more enjoyable for the bits about the film industry than for the mystery.
This was a fun little mystery. The plot was decent, the insight into the motion picture business in the early 20's was absolutely fascinating, and the bonus addition of long-disproven theories of the "science" of the criminal mindset was very amusing.
Audiobook from Librivox - some readers fantastic but there there were others. Ending to book was very strange, but I would recommend it.
Reminded me of Sherlock Holmes but not as good. Still an enjoyable read that is fee on Gutenberg. Will look for more.
Fun mystery set in the early film industry, I would read more with these characters. The sidekick was a bit too awestruck by the detective. Maybe if I read more, I will feel the same.
I enjoyed the history more than the mystery. The mystery is good, but as a New Yorker I enjoyed reading about the city in times past.
Detective Craig Kennedy's investigations take him on the set of a movie filming and a most confusing state of affairs in which the lead actress ends up dead...
