https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34290.The_Chronicles_of_Chrestomanci_Vol_2
These two make an odd pair. Witch Week is a boarding school farce with silliness all over the place. The Magicians of Caprona has lighthearted moments, but is a pretty earnest tale of children during war time. They don't have much in common, except the focus on children and magic, but they are both perfect. Caprona gets extra bonus points for the importance of cats.
However, the great wizard only makes brief appearances in the book, leaving centre stage to child protagonists who save society from an awful lot of harm by a combination of courage, brains, imagination and magic.
Well, what did you expect?The second book, Witch Week, is set in a completely different milieu: a boarding school in a modern England which is remarkably like ours, except that magic of any kind is strictly forbidden and witches are burnt at the stake.
Just read Volume I first to get a feel for the world in which the stories are set and Chrestomanci's role in it...
This volume holds two stories from the Chrestomanci series: The Magicians of Caprona and Witch Week.
Each story focuses on a different alternate dimension, with the Chrestomanci serving as the ultimate go-to for all magic-related weirdness going on, so he serves as a unifying force throughout the stories.The Magicians of CapronaThis is a loose retelling of the Romeo and Juliet story, but more focus on magic and war rather than romance.
It’s my favorite Chrestomanci story so far.Witch WeekIn a dimension where magic is outlawed, there seems to be a whole lot of magic happening at a boarding school.
Just read the first one. Didn't like it as much as the first but I warmed to it.
I sort of consider this book the weakest link when looking at the Chrestomanci series, but that's really only because I'm not too fond of Witch Week - I think it's bad form to get us horribly attached to characters and then suddenly change those characters into slightly different but really maybe the same characters.
It's too much for me.Magicians of Caprona, on the other hand (Romeo and Juliet, anyone?), is fascinating!
Look at how differently magic is treated over there, a few countries over from England!
I loved Caprona - that book became an on-the-edge-of-your-seat-read-under-the-table book.
I tried, I really did, but I've been trying to finish this book for six weeks now and I'm just not into it. I made it through The Magicians of Caprona, which was really rambly and directionless, and ended rather abruptly. Chrestomanci really wasn't even part of the story; more like he had a special appearance for a few pages. So I've lost interest and I'm thinking this book probably won't get finished.
When compared to the first volume, the second volume is a bit weaker. Both stories are excellent examinations of how things could be just a little different in parallel worlds with different rules on magic, but with Chrestomanci as only a cameo character in both, it was hard to link them to the first two stories. Nevertheless, they're very in-depth stories and well worth the read.
This volume is two completely separate stories. Each is set in the Chrestomanci universe. He doesn't appear until near the end to pull things together. Although both were imaginative and the writing was delightful, I didn't like them as much as the original (two).
I remember this book being much different than the first Chrestomanci volume, but once I got over the fact that Chrestomanci only makes cameo appearances in these two stories I really enjoyed them. Jones is a very unique storyteller, and I definitely plan to read her books to my children some day.
I have to say it with Mr. Gaiman: Always perfectly magical!
One of the stories is really great (witch week) while the other is aggressively mediocre (caprona) so I guess that averages to 4 stars?
I want more adventures about Nan & Estelle !!
I kept thinking where would Chrestomanci appear in the story and I thought he might be in disguise as Mr. Wentworth lol!
When Estelle & Nan used the SUPER EMERGENCY spell which was “KRESTOMANSIII” and Chrestomanci just appeared..
Also my fav part is when Chrestomanci got Theresa’s name wrong !!All in all,I loved this book/adventures so much, I can’t wait to read the next “Magicians Of Caprona”..
I’m ever so excited to draw all the ppl in this story I just love this book so much!
On the quest to read the final book!
I. MAGICIANS OF CAPRONAWhat a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful premise.
Diana Wynne Jones has this way of writing that just feels super unreal.
She doesn't describe very much, and if you're looking for a detailed dissection of what each character is, you are reading the wrong book.
References from previous stories and references that start making sense when you read the next few books are interspersed through-out the narratives in this entire series, and you are left to draw your own conclusions.
I thought that this style of writing was beautiful.
Also another very interesting premise.
I meant to review this ages ago but I forgot, so this'll be a brief and rusty review. I LOVED the first story. It was SO CREEPY. It reminded me of a Doctor Who episode. The second one was really neat, and I liked how it kept you guessing. I did get frustrated at characters having big messes to fix in their lives, but that's because I'm a sissy. XD Great read!
I thought these Chrestomanci books were even better than the first two. By the end of the fourth, I really came to love the quirks of Chrestomanci, and I love the complicated series of worlds Jones has created.
When a real war is starting the two families will have to work together to make an end to the war that will destroy Caprona the city both families love.The second story : Witch week, is totally different.
It's about a world where witches get burned at the stake.
So being a witch is really terrifying in this world.
When someone in class gets accused of being a witch everything goes wrong.
everybody starts accusing everybody and it gets really dangeres.
I like this book the best because the world looks most like our own.
Enjoyable Jones fantasy stories, though less organized than the first two. There are some creepy puppet scenes and sadly less extravagant dressing gowns, but generally still solid Chrestomanci fare.
I was missing a lot of world building. I liked the premise of book 4 in particular but I never invested in any of the characters.
witch week is fantastic and gets brownie points for better use of guy fawkes than v for vendetta
Not as good as the first volume set, but still very good.
3.5 stars
Didn't enjoy as much as the first volume
Not to whine, but there is not much of Chrestomanci in these Chronicles of Chrestomanci Vol II
The Magicians of Caprona: 3 stars; Witch Week: 4 stars.
All that I predicted the first time I heard of Montanas and Petrocchis came to pass, just in the way I predicted, and I first heard of them in the very first page, so you can see why from the middle forward the book was a tad predictable and boring.
Witch week was great right from the start to the end.
Basically we're dealing with a modern world in every way except that witches are hunted and burned at stake.
However the world building is but one of the great things in this book.
The first novel 'The Magicians of Caprona' is very similar in nature to Shakespeare's 'Romeo and Juliet' or the film 'West Side Story', although of course it is set in a world with magic.
Then, when things just seem to be sorting themselves out, Antonio Montana and Angelica Petrocchi are kidnapped.Although this book is in the same world as Chrestomanci, those hoping for a sequel to Volume 1 in these Chronicles will be disappointed.
These books are chronicles, not sequels.
That being said 'The Magicians of Caprona' was an enjoyable read, and I'd recommend it for ages 10 and up.
Also instead of focusing on one character throughout the story, a multitude of character perspectives are shown.The first of the two books is The Magicians of Caprona, which appears in the same world as the first two books, but in a different country, Italy, complete with very huge Italian families.
Trust Chrestomanci, and a couple of plucky younger members of the families, to set things right.Witch Week takes place in an alternate dimension from Chrestomanci's world, one much like ours -- the only difference is, magic is real and there is a LOT of it, but more importantly, it's illegal and witches are still burned for using magic.
Enter Chrestomanci!Brief synopses aside, I enjoyed these stories tremendously, although I have to say that both of them stumbled a little in their final climax.
haha) The Magicians of Caprona and Witch Week is more on witches and what have you than Chrestomanci, who is featured very little in these books but obviously plays a part in putting things to right.^^^^It definitely wasn't what I had expected, I thought it would be more focussed on Chrestomanci, but when I realised it wasn't, I tried to figure out which Chant was in each book!
(yeah, the *only* two Chants I know haha)^^^^Anywho, The Magicians of Caprona was about two feuding family and an impending danger to the Italian state of ...
Witch Week was the first Diana Wynne Jones novel I read, and it is still one of my favorites.
Jones's dialogue is at its best here, and she seeds the pages with sly humourous touches that still make me giggle.Unfortunately, Witch Week also turns out (towards the end) to be part of the Chronicles of Chrestomanci, which confused me greatly the first time I read it.
It is pretty much forgettable, especially if you have read any of Jones's other Chrestomanci books.
