https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28149981-revolution
This is not a bad review, but I don’t want Jennifer Donnelly to read it because I want one day for us to sit together at a conference and be best friends and talk about dead people, prose, and minor chords.
I don’t want anything to get in the way of that, much less something as untidy as her looking at me and thinking of this Goodreads review and hissing “I’ll show you ambitious, Stiefvater.”So Ms. Donnelly (Jennifer, really, because in the future, we’re friends, or at least fond peers), please stop here.All right, so I never understood by what reviewers meant by “ambitious.” I assumed it meant the reviewer was a condescending jerk.
I am just not sold on its merits, even though I understand my personal dislike of certain things in literature might be interfering with my assessment of the novel.I don't have any problems with Donnelly's writing.
Andi should have been able to overcome her demons without it, on the strength of Alexandrine's and her own experiences.This is the second YA novel in recent months written by a talented author, with a great premise, but spoiled by poor plot choices (the first one is Extraordinary).
I am not sure if I want to read the author's adult novels anymore if cheap melodrama is the actual genre of her choice.
I think Donnelly takes more risks here: in characterization (Andi is a handful, to say the least), subject matter (the horrors of the French Revolution are at times excruciating to read) and structure (contemporary and historical plot lines are mashed together -- which, of course, is the point: the world goes on stupid and brutal, just like it always has).
Which, I think, is why Donnelly allows time to run in both directions in this book; it is irrelevant to the tale.Donnelly cites James Joyce as her all-time favorite author.
But that's a subject for another essay!)What a book.
Since the book has a fantasy and/or hallucinogenic quality to it, I could give her a little leeway, but it got old.I didn't quite believe her high school crowd either.
Maybe I could believe the intellect of a Harvard graduate party, but not high school kids (especially when Andi is so dense later in the book).
Donnelly did her research and I enjoyed the facts she sprinkled throughout her novel (and am grateful that she actually did a ton of research for a historical novel).At times I had a little trouble visualizing Alex's character.
Meanwhile, he, a DNA-specializing dude, is conducting an experiment to find out whether this heart--a real, actual heart--that's been preserved for so long belongs to Louis Charles, the son of the slain King Louis XVI.Somehow, Andi stumbles upon the diary of Alexandrine, a young woman living during the French Revolution who has a personal connection with Louis Charles (she's sort of like his nanny).
I was told she was a straight-A getter, but I'd liked to have it shown a bit.Anyway, before I go into my thoughts on the French Revolution, I think I’m going to have to mention Virgil, Andi’s dread-locked love interest.
Nevertheless, these girls are bound by their love of music and a tangible guilt they both feel as a result of their own perceived selfishness.
Andi and Alex each provide an astonishing portrayal of a haunted soul struggling for redemption.
It is in Paris that Andi discovers an antique guitar case, complete with a secret compartment containing the long lost diary of a girl who calls herself Alex.Alex lives in Revolutionary France.
Struggling with her own desires and the ever increasing love she feels for the dauphine, Alex will have to make a choice that helps change the course of history.
The beginning was incredibly slow, and far too suicidal-emo (without stirring any compassion in me) for me to connect to our depressive narrator.
I also found it text book style info-dumpy in parts (regarding music and the French history).
The French revolution-y part of the story was only introduced around page 120 (or there-abouts ~ going off memory here), and it is barely under way at 200 pages in.
I think there could be a story in here that would amaze/move me, but surrounded by a cast of characters I cannot connect to I am finding it hard to care.
Revolution is a genre-bending masterpiece with two likable heroines and a twisting plot that never stops moving.
In the end, however, perhaps I'd class this as a contemporary, because the focus here is on character development.
Andi is incredibly angsty for a good deal of the book, yet her arc is so well thought out that it's hard not to empathize with her and love her.
Andi has severe depression, which she combats through her music.
I did take issue with the slight anti-medication tilt this book took; with the severity of Andi's depression, medication shouldn't be shameful.
I don't think I've ever felt such a strong connection to a character before, but it was thrilling.The only thing that really reaches Andi is her music and this is where she goes when life becomes too much for her, often playing her guitar until her fingers bleed.
Both the journal she discovers of a young girl living through the French Revolution, and Virgil, a boy she met while joining a local band for a few songs help to bring Andi back from the depression she's been drowning in.I liked the sections with the journal.
2.50 /5 in the beginning was just perfect and interesting but after that ?????? I hate it I decided stop read it
Revolution is an incredible story of a troubled girl and how she copes with her dysfunctional family as well as a much deeper history. Absolutely amazing and definitely worth reading.
There were parts of Revolution that I liked and there were parts I had a hard time looking past.
I liked her ability to take 2 different stories, -one from present day and one from the 18th century French revolution- and blend them together seamlessly and keep the flow and the interest going.
But, I had a hard time considering this truly even a marginally historical novel when 2 of the 3 major historical characters in the book were completely fictional; Alexandrine Paradis and Amadé Malherbeau.I could not get past the fact that Andi; the female protagonist in the modern-day story, came off as self-centered, whiny, and just plain bitchy.
I didn’t like her at all and I had a hard time relating to her.
A summary of this girl and her characteristics: whine whine whine, angst, whine, NO ONE UNDERSTAAAANDS MEEE!!1!, hipster music tastes, poor me I'm rich, my dad doesn't UNDERSTAND ME!!, I have a genius level IQ and go to a prestigious private school and have opportunities that most people would rip their fingernails off for and BOY DOES IT SUCK, "I almost killed myself because I couldn't cope with my sadness" - ACTUAL QUOTE.
The author makes it worse by having Andi, the protagonist, slum with a group of poors in Paris, one of whom, a genius rapper (yes, he's such a genius that we're forced to read pages of his eye-roll inducing lyrics), turns out to be her love interest.
It has definitely made me interested in reading more about this revolution that has had such a great effect on our world as a whole, but especially on the people of France.- Andi’s love of music and the important role it played in her life – not being able to play an instrument or hear music the way she does, it was great to discover and feel her dedication and admiration through Donnelly’s words.- Virgil.
This got a lot better as the story progressed, but the first couple of chapters, she was actually very hard to take.(view spoiler)[- The time warp twist shortly before the end.
The only thing keeping her going over is her love of music, but even that doesn't seem enough at times.
Whilst reading this diary, the fates of the two young women are woven together, and Andi will come to discover that internal revolutions are just as affecting as external ones.
Also, I learned a buttload about the French Revolution, but it never seemed like I was reading a text book.
To explain myself without giving away to much of the plot, I will say that this book is a lot like the movie Happy Feet.
I recommend it to those interested in a more personal look at the French Revolution.
She is a spy and living on the tenterhook of danger.When Andi discovers Alexandrine's diary, it starts a journey to self-revelation.It doesn't take long to realize that the "revolution" described is not the French revolution , despite it playing a major role in the story.
And thus starts the "revolution , as two lost young girls , living two hundred years apart connect through music and the words in the diary.The description of music, its beauty and the effect it has on Andi is breathtaking.
But while reading this book, I could almost feel the emotional and spiritual connection that Andi had with music.The writing is absolutely beautiful.
I thought the synopsis on the back of this novel sounded interesting but as soon as I was introduced to suicidal Andi and her obnoxious drug addicted friends I knew I was in for a long read!
At times during the diary entries it felt like I was reading a history text book rather than a fiction novel.
One Star!NOTE: This is a YA novel but I’d worry about teenagers reading this novel with the main character Andi popping pills like they were M&M’s and the author almost makes suicide sound romantic in this book.
Tragedy makes you hope, believe that things could have gone differently only if ......So it would come as no surprise that this book which is centred around a very disturbed young women set in a very tragic time in history aka the French revolution managed to impress me.
In this book you have a character who is on the verge of ending her life because of a tragedy she could not prevent.
The child is non other than the Lost King of France Louie X VII and the diary gives an insiders account of the French Revolution from the point of view of the King and his family.
It was a fabulous way to tell a historical fiction story.It’s about two young women in their late teens, Andi who’s living in the 21st century and Alex who’s living in the 18th century, during the time of the French Revolution.
We learn about Alex as Andi is reading her diary.Does every main character in young adult books have to be extraordinary to be interesting to the reader?!
The entire story was gripping; as I read on & on, it got harder & harder to put down the book.In addition to Andi and Alex, music (and a variety at that!) is another main character that shines in this book.
This book had me at "Hello." Andi's voice was so heartbreaking, so powerfully real, that I was in her world from page one.
The melancholy undertone carries through the entire book, even when Andi wasn't thinking about the personal tragedy that decimated her family and her own peace of mind.
But while this was at times so sad it brought me to tears, it was ultimately a story of hope, inner strength, and the healing power of love.
A story, as Donnelly herself said in an interview, that is "...about the internal revolution.
Maybe I just feel bad already...Teen-aged Andi is prescribed medicated and self-medicated for the past two years of her young life.
(They sure as shit weren't as good as Morrissey or The Beatles.) I wish I'd felt the connection more than her telling the reader that she was riveted.
It's hard to play the roles you set for yourself, let alone the world wants you to play, and then know how to go on pretending after the worst has happened.When I was about Andi's age I was friends with a depressed Czech Au Pair girl, Lucia.
I can relate to Alex's love of acting and Andi's music.
”I am not afraid of beatings or blood anymore. I’m not afraid of guards or guillotines. There is only one thing I fear now - love. For I have seen it and I have felt it and I know that it is love, not death, that undoes us.” Holy shit. What did I just read?Revolution by Jennifer Donnelly goes right up there with novels like I Am the Messenger, A Northern Light (also written by her), and Jellicoe Road. And trust me, I do not honor any book with as prestigious a rank as this. I really do not know
What did I just read?Revolution by Jennifer Donnelly goes right up there with novels like I Am the Messenger, A Northern Light (also written by her), and Jellicoe Road.
I really do not know how I will find the words to describe my endless love for this brilliantly constructed novel, so I will make a list to organize my thoughts - similar to what I did with my review of On the Jellicoe Road.But first, a bit about the book.
There, she meets a talented rapper (I promise it’s not insta-love!) and a girl named Alexandrine “The Green Man.” I will go no further so as to not spoil the novel.Revolution pretty much has everything I love packed in a 500-page volume.
Each features a girl who stumbles upon a link to the past that is surrounded by mystery.
Music featured as not only something to enjoy, but as a necessary component to life, like water or air or food.
While there, she begins work on her thesis, which is about the composer Amade Malherbeau and how his work has influenced music to this day, and during the course of that research, she stumbles on a mystery that goes all the way back to Revolutionary France.I don't want you to think that this book is only about music, because it is not.
It's a beautiful song, and I think it fits the story as well, especially considering the music theme.
Of course, being a “depressed artist” doesn’t fly with the authorities – Andi is almost denied her chance to graduate and her father, despite her protests, takes her to Paris with him to live with their old friends while she works on her thesis on a (fictional) French composer Amade Malherbeau and the influence of his work on modern music.
One day, she is noticed by the French royal family and appears to be the only thing that makes young prince Louis laugh.
(Un)fortunately, the life and work of Amade Malherbeau and that of Alex are entwined in more than one way (non-romantic, thankfully), as Andi finds out.
Two girls, one from the past and one from the present, whose destinies become intertwined.
Well, I've seen that plot plenty of times before, so I figured Revolution had to really deliver with the characters and the details.
In the beginning, I wasn't sure about it--the writing was good, but the present-day teen characters were rich and sort of pretentious.
There's a lot more in this book too.
A lot of stuff about music, its power to heal, and to transcend time.
And parties in the catacombs of Paris.Plus, there is nothing I love more than a book that isn't a tearjerker almost bringing tears to my eyes.
Overall, I totally loved this story.
My only complaint is that the ending felt as if it was a little bit rushed.
Andi spent so much time walking around Paris and reading Alex’s journal that I was already 300+ pages in before the real action happened.
Even the epilogue felt rushed.
We were told everything about Andi’s life one year later.
There was definitely some opportunity to ‘show not tell’ toward the end of the book and the opposite toward the middle of the story.
I loved the characters.
I love that I learned about history and music.
I loved this book.
Original post at One More PageI read and loved Jennifer Donnelly's   A Northern Light   earlier this year, and I looked forward to reading her second (?) YA novel,  Revolution  after I got a taste of her writing prowess. There were only two things that stopped me from reading it: (1) I still shy away from historicals and (2) the book looked so daunting with its size and length. I didn't think I would be able to read it for Required Reading last month as I'm jet-setting all around, but I'm really
There were only two things that stopped me from reading it: (1) I still shy away from historicals and (2) the book looked so daunting with its size and length.
I found myself engrossed in Alex's diary just as much as Andi was, and even if I knew how it would probably end, I felt the same fear and longing for the story to end differently, for the Alex to make it through.I think a reason why I loved this book more than I thought I would was because I was actually in Europe while I was reading this.
When the school sends letters to both of her parents informing them that she is in danger of being expelled from her exclusive private school near the end of her senior year, her father comes to New York and takes her with him to Paris for winter break.
In Paris, as in New York, Andi spends most of her time fending for herself.
While she is far from healthy and ends up having a serious relapse, Andi begins her healing process with the help of new friends and Alexandrine's diary.
I highly recommend this book for older teens and for adults.
Why: I couldn't stand the main character, the modern day heroine, Andi.
She is wallowing in self pity, addicted to mental drugs, and does nothing but complain, pop pills, and talk about her guitar or play her guitar or talk about music.
She is so spoiled she takes a load of money out of an atm in France, spends it all like a nimrod, and then the next day realizes she has no money for food and plays her guitar for in exchange for change from strangers.
„Революция” на Дженифър Донъли е една от най-запомнящите се и оригинални книги, които съм чел в последно време, и определено едно от най-големите попадения в и без това прекрасно подбрания каталог на „Студио Арт Лайн”. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
