https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10628.Night_Shift
What I learned from Night Shift:It ain't easy to quit smoking.That I know what you need.That I am the doorway.That he walks behind the rows.That sometimes they come back.It ain't over in 'Salem's Lot.Don't drink bad beer. Get off your ass and mow your own lawn, goddammit.
These are short stories (though not really novellas) which actually serve as delectable intros to popular King mythologies (for a staggering example see [or better yet, don't {with the exception of "Trucks" a.k.a.
"Maximum Overdrive" for B-level entertainment and "Children of the Corn" with its quaint moments of childlike chills}] all the movies made from like eight of these tales.) Here, King is at his most bizarre, most morbid.
Sometimes one story seems to bleed onto another one by motif (corn...
death machines...
death [duh]).
That's the thing about King, I've read his first book  Carrie  and the writing of it still felt like he wrote it months ago.
I'm not normally afraid of rats, but if ever I see one as big as the ones described in this short story, then I would probably be scared as hell.Night SurfThe basis for The Stand, which is one of my favorites novels of all time.
I liked the main character and it was a satisfying short read.Sometimes They Come BackPlease don't let them come back.
Of course these are only my theories, but I'm giving this story five stars based on possible coolness factor alone."Battleground" - Ten pages and four star's worth of big fun that any kid who's ever played with little green army men will enjoy.
"One for the Road" - The second to last story in this collection gets four stars simply for being a companion to 'Salem's Lot."The Woman in the Room" - Is an emotionally driven four-star effort that hits a little too close to home for me.Notable names:This time around, King references his other books in multiple ways, but mostly by the towns that would come to host some of his most famous works.
Stephen King’s first anthology! The general rating is an average result of each individual rating of the stories contained in the anthology. JERUSALEM’S LOT Rating: *** ( 3 stars )This is a short story which serves as an introductory prequel if you later wanted to read Salem’s Lot novel. Set in 1850, Charles Boones inherited the Chapelwaite manor, which is feared by the people of Preacher’s Corners town, and that has a dark connection with Jerusalem’s Lot, a deserted village, quite near of the
Rating: **** ( 4 stars )Love is in the air, but so is murder, and the fateful date of a man with the woman who loves will turn into a tragedy.
Rating: *** ( 3 stars )This is a short story which serves as a sequel for the Salem’s Lot novel.Set a couple of years later of the events of Salem’s Lot, in a bar, two men decided to venture into a deadly blizzard to try to save a family stranded just in the middle of the dreadful Jerusalem’s Lot village.
Rating: *** ( 3 stars )Remorse and guilt overwhelm to a troubling man after deciding to end the suffering of his unhealthy mother.
In its entirety, however, I consider "Night Shift" to be a rather weak collection of short stories, and critics will certainly find affirmation that King is also able to write true crap.
(2,5/5 stars)The first short story in Stephen King's first anthology deals with the origins of the fictional town Jerusalem's Lot which the reader already knows from 'Salem's Lot. However, the story hasn't a lot in common with the novel counterpart, and whoever expects to find the roots of Kurt Barlow and the vampires will end up being disappointed.
This is a good, creepy collection. As in lots of short story books, he seemed to place the best ones towards the end. My favorites are the ones that have no supernatural elements at all: "The Ledge", The Last Rung on the Ladder", The Man Who Loved Flowers and the very last story, The Woman in the Room". King is a king of the horror and devastation we feel in real life and that is plenty scary.

to Tabitha one more time...she gave him shoves and suggestions all along, good ones, and King's fan's owe her a lot).The pre-Carrie ones are, for the most, part collected near the beginning of the book, including such hits and misses (depending on the reader, of course) as Graveyard Shift (1970), Night Surf, which is related to The Stand, the amazing book that isn't released until almost a full decade after the magazine article (1969), I am The Doorway (1971), The Mangler (1972), The Boogyman (1973), Grey Matter (1973), Battleground (1972), Trucks (1973), Strawberry Spring (1968), Sometimes They Come Back was published in March of 1974.
It’s a sort of prequel to the events of Salem’s Lot: a man moves into a house that once belonged to his ancestors and progressively discovers an unsettling relation between his family and a ghost town called Jerusalem’s Lot. The story stands on its own well; it doesn’t require prior knowledge of the novel to enjoy it (although it certainly helps) and the style reminded me a little of Lovecraft and Sheridan Le Fanu.
Here, let me give you an idea of what I looked like:In case you’re wondering, this little gem tells the story of a single psychotherapy session with a man who’s convinced that the boogeyman has killed his three children, and is now trying to get him.
I think that every story had a good initial idea behind it, but many of them unfortunately lacked a good execution.
I often felt that something was just missing...There was no problem with the writing style, these stories just didn't excite me very much and didn't stay in my mind for very long.
Let's talk about fear."Night Shift was Stephen King's first short story collection, released way back in 1978 and it contains quite a lot of his more popular short stories that ended up becoming movies.
You can quite literally feel King's hunger for story-telling throughout the entirety of this collection and given these stories were written at the very start of his career, the material is all so fresh with absolutely amazing, outrageous ideas.I feel like I should reveal that I am not a huge fan of short stories.
I want to spend days/weeks thinking about the story and the characters and where it's all going, with the anticipation of getting into bed each night to see what happens next.
It’s a microcosm that reveals very little, unless you have read The Stand, but it hints at Captain Trips and what some people can become when order has been lost.I am the Doorway - King opens this door just a crack, enough for us to see and then imagine what may happen when species collide.
I like when King tells a straight story, and that’s the way this one begins.
Well, it’s an even better story, and the explanation behind the title makes it all the more so.
As I continue my Stephen King binge, I seem to be leaning more towards his short story collections.
As I've said before Stephen King is one of the best short story writers around.
Night Shift is a vintage read and some stories are super dated but as I said before there are more great and timeless stories in this collection then there are clunkers.
I am stunned to admit that, at 25 years old, having been a fan of all things in the horror world for my entire life, I have only just now completed my very first Stephen King novel. I DNFed his books so many times in my teen years because his writing just wasn't for me. I appreciate his style tremendously more now than I ever did in years past, but won't say that I loved all of the stories in this collection. As I usually do with anthology reviews, I'll break it up in pieces.  ⇨ Jerusalem's Lot
This was probably my favorite story of the collection; the narrative being given through letters was unique and a fun way to frame the events, and the action kept up enough to keep me interested to the end.
I honestly don't know how to sum up the plot for this story other than telling you there is some sort of disease killing people off.
Salem's Lot. I loved how this story circled back to the first one, though it's set in much more recent times than the first piece of the collection.
Over the years I’ve struggled with short story collections as I’m very much a long-form kind of guy.
I enjoyed the hell out of this collection.Night Shift crams twenty of King’s earliest short stories into a brisk 502 pages.
Jerusalem’s Lot was a Lovecraftian-style monster story that didn’t really do anything for me, especially when compared to the superior One For The Road later on in the collection.King is one of my favorite writers, so it’s not all that shocking that I would enjoy one of his short story collections.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge: A book with a time of day in the titleYou know it’s a bad sign when the introduction and forward are more interesting that the majority of the stories. I quite enjoyed “The Mangler” (somehow makes a laundry machine so scary!), “The Boogeyman”, “Gray Matter”, and “The Last Rung on the Ladder”, but the rest I found to be either boring or silly. I definitely found myself skimming many of the stories, which sucks because there were a couple of gems in there.
"لقد أتيت إليك لأحكي لك حكاية"قالها الرجل الممدد علي الأريكة في عيادة الطبيب هاربيرت."لا أستطيع الاع
In his introduction to Skeleton Crew, Stephen King writes: “a good long novel is in many ways like having a long and satisfying affair” whereas the short story “is like a quick kiss in the dark from a stranger.” My literary proclivities definitely lean towards those long affairs.
For a man who has been lambasted for his “bloated” novels – King himself has referred to his condition as "literary elephantiasis" – he can still write a short story like nobody’s business.
King didn't write these stories for the money, cash-strapped as he was with two small kids, he wrote them because he had to.
Είμαι βέβαιος που υπάρχουν ομοϊδεάτες, το έχω δει από κατά καιρούς σχόλια: η πολυλογία του και η βραδυφλεγής ανάπτυξη του κεντρικού θέματος της αφήγησής του είναι τα χαρακτηριστικά που απωθούν αναγνώστες, όπως εμένα.
Υπάρχουν κι άλλα αυτοβιογραφικά ψήγματα, πέραν της συγγραφικής/γραφιάδικης φύσης των πρωταγωνιστών, όπως για παράδειγμα πως πολλοί παλεύουν με το αλκοόλ και δρουν στις Β.
Οι συγγένειες αυτές, όμως, δεν είναι κραυγαλέες, ο Κινγκ ξέρει να συντάσσει και παρατάσσει τα στρατεύματά του με φαντασία, πιάνοντας απροετοίμαστες τις άμυνες του πιο κακόπιστου αναγνώστη.
Τακτικές που για τον μέσο συγγραφέα είναι αδυναμίες, στα χέρια του ταλαντούχου γίνονται εμμονές που προσδίδουν χαρακτήρα και συνέπεια σε ένα ήδη χαρακτηριστικό στυλ γραφής.Οι ιστορίες τούτης της συλλογής είναι τρόμου.
Usually short-story collections, especially by the same author, always tend to garner a three from me: because they are almost always a mix of the good, the bad and the indifferent, and follows the bell-shaped curve of the normal distribution.
These collection of early stories from King is filled with the excellent, the very good, the good...
The author does a fine job of walking the tightrope between psychological horror and pure, gut-wrenching terror, without let-up in the suspense towards the very end.Another story which still haunts me is The Children of the Corn.
a horror story - The Last Rung on the Ladder.
After that one, my interested was piqued and the book continued at a high level through The Ledge and on to the end with a few exceptions here and there raising my overall rating from a 3 to a 4.Jerusalem’s Lot – The first story is an “historical” account of the events that take place when a man and his faithful servant take residence in his ancestral home and explore the shunned ghost town of Jerusalem’s Lot. The story is told through a series of letters and journal entries and is very different from King’s normal style.
Good build up of tension through-out and another nice ending.The Lawnmower Man – After a string of excellent stories, this one is pretty weak.

6.0 stars. On my list of "All Time Favorite" books and second only to Fragile Things by Neil Gaiman as my favorite short story collection of all time. All of the stories are excellent and it is hard to pick favorites in this collection but I would say "Boogeyman", "Strawberry Spring", "Children of the Corn" and "Jerusalem's Lot" are definitely highlights. Highest Possible Recommendation!!!
Y es que King es un gran narrador.Estos son los veinte relatos incluidos en la antología:Los misterios del gusano.
(****) Un grupo de personas está aislado en una gasolinera, donde son acosados por sus vehículos.
(****) Un hombre contrata los servicios de un cortador de césped muy especial.
(****) Donde la protagonista descubre que el chico perfecto no existe.
Muy buen relato.Los chicos del maíz.
No es de terror, pero es un gran relato.El hombre que amaba las flores.
Muy buen relato, que se disfruta más tras haber leído la novela.La mujer de la habitación.
Stephen King has been a huge influence on me as an author and this book of short stories will always be a particular favourite of mine.
I read it multiple times and never tired of it.There are so many fantastic stories in one book, it is hard to pick a favourite.
However, the story that resonated with me the most and is probably closest to something I would write myself is Quitters, Inc. It has been burned into my mind since the first time I read it.Overall, an amazing book and a must-read for Stephen King fans.
This is by far my favourite collection of King stories that I've read so far!
The Mangler, The Boogeyman and The Lawnmower Man were my top three favourites out of the collection and definitely the stories that got to me the most.
And after read The Lawnmower Man I actually had to put down the book for a bit because I just couldn't get the story out of my head.
This is definitely the scariest and most disturbing collection I've read by King and I must say, I loved every minute of it!
I hate rats…and bats!CONNECTIONS: Set in Gates Falls, which also rates a mention in Bag of Bones.Night Surf – 3*** I remember reading this many, many years ago, when it was first published, and wishing it was longer.
CONNECTIONS: Captain Trips (The Stand)Harrison (Firestarter, The Body, The Mist)Harrison State Park (The Body) is mentioned in this book.
This was the real story for me, not what happened to Richie Grenadine.CONNECTIONS: Mention of a very large spider, as big as a good-sized dog, in a sewer pipe under a street in Bangor.Battleground 3*** Short, quick read.
I remember for the movie, which I haven't seen in over ten years, it was longer and more drawn out.Night Surf was written well but also was a weaker selection, as it felt more like a scene than an actual short story proper.
We do need a better term for books that are like "B movies" besides just cheesy.
In mind I was mixing the old man from Father's Day repeatedly announcing he wants ‘his cake, give him his cake’, to the first short story where King himself is turned into a bizarre plant thing.

