https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146274.Manhunt
There was material in here that was new to me, namely that the assassination of Lincoln was not the only one planned for the day, or the only one attempted, or that Booth was killed instead of captured, and that there was a group of co-conspirators who were hanged for the offense.James L.
Swanson - image from Googleplay  Of course, as someone who does not know much about the period, it would not take a lot to constitute new material.
In The Blood Relics, Swanson writes about the moment when he decided to write Manhunt and what items remain from the eventThere are several more articles relating to Lincoln's assassination in this issue
How the heck did Swanson manage to make this very well-known story so riveting?
I mean, everyone knows that (UNNECESSARY SPOILER ALERT MOSTLY JUST FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE SPENT YOUR LIFE LIVING IN A CAVE---->) President Lincoln was assassinated at Ford's Theater by stage actor John Wilkes Booth.Everyone with a lick of American history learnin' has heard the story.
Most also know that Booth was subsequently caught, and yet Manhunt is genuinely exciting.
I mean, I'm having trouble keeping up the excitement just in this short review!
I suggest reading "Manhunt" backwards.
And since Booth was an actor, the Shakespearian allusions aren’t necessarily out of place, but it all grows uncomfortably corny as the story goes on.
When they start to dramatize those imagined thoughts, it makes for a real eye-roller.While Booth and his accomplice were seeking sanctuary on the Easter weekend after the assassination, the author writes – “In the early hours of Black Easter, Booth and Herold sought their salvation, not in church, but at the door of a faithful Confederate.
I did.) Granted, Booth entertained a grand vision of himself.
James is a fantastic writer that writes for all abilities and understandings.
A gripping hour-by-hour account told through the eyes of the hunted and the hunters, this is history as you've never read it before.The murder of Abraham Lincoln set off the greatest manhunt in American history -- the pursuit and capture of John Wilkes Booth.
Lincoln was murdered by John Wilkes Booth, who was an actor.
James used rare archival materials to help him write this book.
It was fantastic and I suggest it to everyone!
Swanson does a terrific job of cobbling together a stunningly complete and compelling narrative of Booth's time on the lam while armies hunted for him, all from interviews with the subjects, court transcripts, newspaper accounts, and other books written by those involved at at the time.
Just a great yarn here.Just before I finished it, I was in Washington, DC, and while I'd never much thought of it before, this time I couldn't resist a walk up 10th Street to Ford's Theater, where Lincoln was shot.
One of the subtler revelations of this book is the intimacy of Washington in Lincoln's time.
Manhunt is a dramatic but factually accurate and well rendered non fictional account of John Wilkes Booth’s flight following Lincoln’s assassination.While the book is impeccably researched and stays true to its detailed coverage of Booth and his young assistant, it does struggle to maintain consistent threads on the other co-conspirators.
At times it was confusing trying to follow the flights of five different assassins.
This book is similar to Hellhound, the story of the manhunt for James Earl Ray, MLK’s assassin.
I would give the nod to Hellhound as the better book but Manhunt is still worth reading.
I had always known since schooldays that John Wilkes Booth had assassinated President Abraham Lincoln but I had no idea of the background and the follow-up to his action.'Manhunt' most certainly clears that little matter up for it is a stupendous account of the 12-day chase for the killer as well as setting the scene for the deed and giving later detail about what happened to the various key locations in the story.Once begun it is difficult to put down, for the action rolls on and on without let up, so much so that it reads like a thriller with something startling on page after page.James L Swanson has captured the characters admirably, covers the geography superbly and the action intensely.
I enjoyed the book and learned ever so much more about that point in our history than I ever did in school. I appreciate the accounts were taken from primary sources, newspapers and other research - for that reason I have more confidence in the intrepretation by Swanson. I certainly recomend it for people who learned a light version of the events, like myself, and have a curiosity as to what could drive a person to assassinate a president.
History doesn't just come alive the way James Swanson writes it, it jumps up and grabs you and throws you smack into the middle of an America still drowning in the chaos of civil war, just barely beginning to rise up from the mire and rebuild only to be thrown into turmoil once again with the assassination of President Lincoln.We're all pretty familiar with "sic semper tyrannis" and some of us even know the stories of men and women lining the railroad tracks for miles to see Lincoln's funeral train ride past but the story of those frantic hours and days following the assassination when the depth of the conspiracy to topple Lincoln's government was yet unknown and Booth was nowhere to be found isn't the sort of thing commonly found in history books.Swanson takes the reader through a concise, dramatic retelling of the titular 12 days following the assassination during which Booth attempted to cross into the more sympathetic deep south, the manhunt that comprised literally thousands of people determined to find him, and the men and women who found themselves suddenly becoming part of history when Booth sought their help.
Onvan : Manhunt: The 12-Day Chase for Lincoln's Killer - Nevisande : James L. Swanson - ISBN : 60518502 - ISBN13 : 9780060518509 - Dar 434 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2006
To begin, Swanson treats his subject in such light and casual detail that any serious student of history or anyone with an academic interest in Lincoln's assassination would be poorly served to waste time with this book.
For example, on page 29 Swanson quotes the text of a letter given by John Wilkes Booth to an actor friend John Matthews (the text of the letter appears in italics).
This is not literary license; it is more like literary licentiousness.While reading this book I made notes of a number of other shortcomings in the text, such as on page 320 where Swanson describes Booth holding his pistols in his hands and then contradicts himself a paragraph later by writing that he is reaching for his holstered pistols.
It's so easy to make history feel stuffy and dry, but this book is far from it.
Perhaps not for history buffs, but more for people like me, who got solid Bs in history class because text books are so much less interesting than collections of Fox Trot comic strips.Somewhere in the middle of the chase, when Booth and his accomplices were encountering some travails in their lam, I had to reexamine my morals.
Did I just wish that the murderer of one of the only presidents of the United States with a respectable beard would get off free of scot?
Read this book for a fascinating glimpse into the mid-19th century, not for the writing. The author uses first-hand accounts, trial testimony etc. to re-construct some events leading up to Lincoln's assassination and then, mostly, the manhunt for John Wilkes Booth and his co-conspirators. (Did you even know there were co-conspirators?) It includes many long quotations from correspondence, diary entries, witness statements etc., all of which I greatly enjoyed reading. The author's own writing left much to be desired. All in all, a quick read and I recommend it.
There is the injured Booth, running sometimes ahead of the slow-moving news of the day, hoping to open a newspaper describing him as a hero; the great American tragedy of Lincoln, unconsious but struggling for an entire night in a bed while slowly dying; the Secretary of War, Edwin Stanton, who spent every minute of that night by Lincoln's side, while, already, using his considerable wartime powers to commandeer all of the available resources of the U.S. government to hunt down the killers; the southerners, who knowingly or unknowingly aided Booth until he arrived at the farm of the Garrett's, who were unaware of what he had done; Booth's defiant refusal to surrender inside a corn crib at the Garrett farm that had been set on fire by pursuing soldiers, and his being shot, against orders, by a soldier named Boston Corbett; the life-long lasting celebrity status of Corbett for shooting Booth; Booth's night-long death watch on the Garrett porch, mirroring the ordeal he had put Lincoln through less than two weeks previous.
On the contrary, it was stimulating, but there was something dissonant about it.Perhaps, it was that by writing large parts of it from Booth's point of view the story it humanized him and his suffering in a way that made me uncomfortable.
Yet the book urges this by telling the story through Booth's words, Confederate sympathist and conspirators' words, etc.
Again, the book doesn't ignore this, in fact, it actively connects Booth to future villainy, lynchings, and other hateful racist branches of the American tree.
That may be why the book doesn't sit well with me.
I read this as a follow-up to Sarah Vowell’s Assassination Vacation, but whereas that was history mixed with humor, this was 100% history that read like a detective/adventure story.
Earlier in the book, however, I had a more perverse reaction: I found myself actually rooting for John Wilkes Booth to keep evading the manhunters because I didn’t want the book to end.
His own writings are really outrageous!I highly recommend this book, along with Assassination Vacation for starters.
John Wilkes Booth did not act alone, but constructed a much broader plot to cripple the newly victorious Union.
The correlation is apt since critics find this nonfiction account of Booth's getaway as compelling as the best thrillers.
Swanson, a legal scholar with the Cato Institute and a Lincoln historian, knows the assassination inside and out; he's been studying Lincoln since he was a child, and his previous book (with Daniel R.
Weinberg), Lincoln's Assassins, was a photographic and archival study of Booth and his co-conspirators.
With a surfeit of detail at his disposal, Swanson weaves an absorbing tale in unadorned prose that critics greeted with unanimous approval.This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine.
I really liked this book a lot. I had no idea what all was involved with the assasination of Abraham Lincoln. It makes me wonder what they teach us in school. I highly recommend reading it.
Okay, so I liked this book and there was a lot of new and interesting information.
After thinking about it a while I can see why he wanted to portray Booth that way.
So I can see why Swanson portrayed him that way and could get past it, except those references to Christ really get me, that he would compare an assassin to Him. After researching Swanson more it sounds like he really loves Lincoln, even shares his birthday.
It even made me think he didn't like Lincoln that much.
It's very interesting and easy to read, but I could do with a little bit less dramatization.
Richmond fell to Union troops, Jefferson Davis was on the run, the government of the Confederacy collapsed, Lincoln was assassinated, and a 12 day manhunt was launched for his killer, John Wilkes Booth.
In Manhunt, James Swanson has written an incredible book taking the reader through the days before the assassination to the capture, killing and burial of Booth, to the trial, imprisonment, and execution of co-conspirators, to the scramble for the reward money that had been offered by the government for Booth's capture.
All most people know about the assassination of Abraham Lincoln is a vaguely-remembered grade school history lesson involving a theater box, a gun and an actor named John Wilkes Booth.
Because I read this book, I now know that Booth had a broken leg that was tended by a local doctor named "Mudd," that he had a worshipful admirer who helped him survive the 12-day manhunt, and that he was eventually caught--and killed--by a pretty hapless army unit.
If you are interested in an exhaustive account of the last days of JW Booth, up to and including a detailed accounting of how much reward money each person involved in the manhunt received, this is the book for you.
I was reading the chapter where Booth is about to shoot Lincoln and I found myself sitting tensely in the chair with the book close to my face and hurredly turning the pages to find out if he gets away with it, or does he get caught!
This book is so well written that it swoops you up into the excitement and blood-pumping emotions of the aftermath of Lincoln's assassination.
Booth is not demonized, nor is he glorified.
Booth had first intended to kidnap Lincoln ("the tyrant") and use him as a bargaining chip toward the end of the Civil War. Gradually, the plan became to kill Lincoln and several members of his cabinet: Seward, Vice President Andrew Johnson, and Ulysses Grant, among others.The author assiduously researched the episode in history, finding documents that had been hidden for some 50 years.
He famously shot Lincoln at Ford's Theatre in Washington, but the confederate that was supposed to kill Seward pretty much botched that murder, despite leaving major wounds on Seward and one of his sons.
My husband read this first, and his succinct review was that "a whole lot of nothing happens." Yeah, that's about right!However, I liked this book.
Despite the absence of action throughout most of the book, he held my interest as well as my sympathy; I found myself almost going against history and hoping Booth would get away.
I am again borrowing from another when I sum up Booth's flight south thusly: Run!
And I admit it: I laughed out loud when Herold and Garrett stood arguing on the front lawn as the oblivious cavalry thundered by them, and the terrified (uh-huh) Herold essentially said "OK, yeah, so we'll be leaving....
4.5 stars - a fantastic look at Lincoln's assassination and the subsequent hunt for J.
W. Booth.
I had never read anything about the assassination before and after reading this I'm not sure if I ever need to.
It was incredibly thorough but well-paced, realistic but not merely factual, and honest about the struggle of the injured Booth in escaping without making him into a hero.
The narration was superb and I think had I read it in person I would have skimmed more due to the repetitive nature of a book this complex.
I highly recommend you read this.
I didn't know too much more than the basics of the Lincoln assassination before I read this book.
Really wonderful how the author draws you into the events as they are happening.
It's also very informative, and I feel that I know so much more about these events now.
With some books the information is stated in a boring way, and you forget most of it as soon as you close the book.
I didn't feel that here, I feel I will remember what I read, because the process was so enjoyable.
I loved this book. Of course, it's nonfiction, but it reads like a high intensity, suspenseful, thrilling novel. It goes into details of the manhunt that I was not aware of before. And now that I've lived in DC for about 4 years, I found it fascinating how Swanson could transport me back 150 years. I honestly feel a more intimate connection with our nation's history after reading about this particular troubling episode.
A history book that truly reads like a novel. The old cliche that "I couldn't put it down" holds true for this vivid day-by-day and almost minute-by-minute account of the 12-day search for John Wilkes Booth.I'll write a proper review of this great book after I spend some time gathering my thoughts.
Fascinating, in-depth look at the days between the assassination of Abraham Lincoln and the death of his assassin, John Wilkes Booth. Much of what I thought I knew was incorrect. I found this riveting and difficult to put down.
Good to the end. There was so much I didn't know about the manhunt for Booth and his accomplices, or even about the assassination itself. I loved it!
