https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18031.Ukridge
This early Wodehouse work is much better than some of his sappy, drippy rom-com stuff, but it didn't quite meet the mark of some of his prime, later work.
I feel like Wodehouse was toying with his model story here, working to create the perfect mold.
A few of them become recurring characters in his Jeeves & Wooster work.
It was fun to see early versions of Aunt Julia and Corky.However, the fact of the matter is, the titular character, Ukridge, is a jerk.
He's an ass and a nasty ass, while Bertie is merely a silly ass.
Being a silly-ass is better than being a nasty ass.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
This is another of genius works of Wodehouse.
He is very optimistic as he starts dreaming of owning a fortune when he gets the slightest scent of money coming his way.
His plans no doubt show no sign of pragmatism, but he always manages his friend Corky Corcoran to help him.
He puts Corky in a situation and somehow convinces to help him, though Corky is almost very sure about the inanes of his plans.
This book contains ten hilarious stories which will entertain the reader and will make one appreciate Wodehouse humour.
3.5* for the book, rounded up to 4* due to Jonathan Cecil's narration.While having a friend like Ukridge would make life interesting, I am sure glad that I don't have such a friend!
This is probably because the consequences of the nutty ventures are borne not by Ukrdige but tend to fall on the unknowing friends whom he's roped into the racket.
Ukridge is probably Wodehouse's most unlikable protagonist and I only put up with a whole volume of stories involving his crackpot money-spinners because of Corky Corcoran, Ukridge's old school chum and only ally and the narrator of the stories.
That, and it's Wodehouse, and even substandard Wodehouse is superior in turn of phrase and humour than most.
A quick glance through the ratings suggests that I may be in the minority in finding Ukridge unabashedly hilarious - albeit in a slightly horrifying way.
And that's about right - you don't want someone like Ukridge to win, usually, but he's likable enough that you want things to work out for him every once in a while.These stories, narrated by Ukridge's more respectable friend Corky, are almost all meat.
Again, many folks don't like these stories as much as the Jeeves or Blandings Castle stories, but I consider them first-rate Wodehouse.
Wodehouse.
****.This is Wodehouse at his best.
The book is not a novel, but a series of vignettes featuring Ukridge, an English gentleman.
After reading through a few of his adventures, along with his straight man James Corcoran, you realize that Ukridge is not a man that you’d want as a friend.
Each episode has him presenting his latest flyer to Corcoran or some other potential patsy.
He even manages to borrow socks and handkerchiefs from Corcoran.
This is a must-read Wodehouse collection.
There are ten ‘episodes’ in this book about Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge, usually including James Corcoran – his Boswell and resident sucker.
Ukridge is as light as English Tea. The book assumes no grandeur nor does it pack any melodrama and makes for a perfect simple read.Stanley Featherstonebough Ukridge - has more character in his name than in real life.
His friend Corky Corcoran bears the brunt of Ukridge's plans.
The other characters such as wrestler Billson, Aunt Julia and his successful friends are people your heart goes out to.
Some of them are ingenious and laced with Ukridge's optimism seem like the perfect plan only for Murphy to strike.
One of the easy light reads.
You know what? Wodehouse's writing is actually quite exquisite. That's the word for it. I notice that so many reviews of his work on goodreads start with a sort of apology: "it's a light read, but..."Don't apologise for Wodehouse, people! One page of his "light entertainment" is more beautifully written than most things you will read this year.I am new to this stuff, and having chosen two books at random to introduce myself, I can only surmise that this man was some kind of once in a century genius. I think this may be the start of a beautiful relationship...
This audiobook offers a collection of humorous short stories featuring the contrived exploits of Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge and how his complicated plots were usually foiled by happenstance.
Plum’s detailed study of entrepreneurial capitalism in industries such as dog training and boxing.
Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge is conclusive proof that there is such a thing as a free lunch, he has been known to enjoy a number of them.We first met Ukridge in ‘Love Among the Chickens’ when the recently married Ukridge was keen to make his fortune from a Chicken farm, this collection of short stories is set sometime before ‘Love Among the Chickens’ when Ukridge is single and culminates with his courtship of Millie who became his wife.
Corky and Ukridge are school friends, old Wrykinian men of previous Wodehouse fame.
I'm still coming to terms with reading Wodehouse books without Bertie Wooster in them and, whilst I find them entertaining, generally find that they don't come up to the dazzling standard of the Jeeves and Wooster volumes. This one came close at times, though, with a few laugh-out-loud moments and some delightful descriptions -- a boxing match and the nocturnal activities of a kidnapped parrot spring to mind immediately.
Not as funny as Bertie Wooster (what on earth is?) or even Mulliner or the Blandings Castle stories, but still plenty of amusement for Wodehouse fans. Ukridge, the main character, is forever scheming to get rich quick -- his failures are often magnificent.
Mildly boring at some points, but an enjoyable read nonetheless.
Really, this could be the actual definition of dated British humor.
This kind of humor works not because of clever one-liners but because of the way the characters and the stories are built.
Yet the irony is rich.
No sarcasm but rich with irony?
(Which is usually how I get people to laugh in a normal conversation, if I'm lucky.)In Ukridge the humor is very knowing and humane, because it derives from the jagged lines in human inter-action, those places where wobbly hopes and dreams intersect, and are eventually dashed, by the locomotion of reality.
I'm going to train dogs. Dog acts, you know. Pots of money in it...Accident insurance. All a fellow's got to do is break a limb and the newspaper hands over a fiver...He'll be a prize fighter. Enormous lad. I'll be pulling in hundreds a week...Nothing can stop me from making a colossal fortune. There's no limit... By the way Laddie, I'm engaged...And this is the life of Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge.
Another gem of a book from PG Wodehouse. This time a collection of short, jolly tales where the star sometimes wins and sometimes loses on his bids to earn a little cash. May not be his funniest but still top notch and guaranteed to make you smile and at times surprised at the turn of events.
First time reading a book about Ukridge. Not as laugh-out-loud as Jeeves and Wooster
PG Wodehouse almost at his best.
Not quite in league with his other set of characters namely Jeeves & Wooster but very close to his sublime best.
This Ukridge chap is always hellbent on making some quick bucks with outlandishly hilarious enterprises, if outlandish is the word I am looking for.
(5)Campaigning for a election.And on and on.And when this Ukridge fellow is not busy in plotting some other bizarre scheme, then he is either purloining his friend's socks, shirts, cigars or is busy dating young women or is enjoying free lunches or is stealing parrots or is stealing pekingese dogs or is stealing cars.
Chalk this one down to the axiom that artists and writers are notoriously unreliable judges of their own work: I remember reading somewhere that Ukridge was Wodehouse's favorite of all the characters he created.
He has none of the flair of Uncle Fred or Galahad Threepwood, none of the lyricism of Psmith, none of the muddleheaded chivalry of Bertie Wooster.
Basically, he is a slightly more resourceful, boorish version of Bingo Little, Bertie's chum who Jeeves was constantly extricating from the soup in the early Jeeves & Wooster stories.
"Looney" Coote, are characters who would have been much better subjects for a series of short stories.
He’s a man with words sweet as honey,But all he wants is some easy money.He is a young man - smart and charming,But he will swindle you with a poise that is alarming! He confidently sets sail his ship of grandiose schemes,A school for dogs is just one of his ludicrous themes.His ship deservedly sinks with disgrace in every tale,The only thing that can be trusted is his ability to fail!People who know him run away atop the closest mountain ridge,He is P.G. Wodehouse’s Stanley Featherstonhaugh Ukridge!
This is a collection of short stories about the character Ukridge.
Now, saying that the stories share a plot is no criticism---if anyone can milk a handful of plots into dozens of books, it's Wodehouse.
(Don't the Jeeves/Wooster books boil down to Wooster avoiding marriage and confusion about errands/favors for aunts?)I liked this book and it made me want to read more of Ukridge.
In particular, I liked the relationship between the narrator and Ukridge.
He thrives with more opportunity to weave plots and characters together.
On the other hand, it is nice to read a 30-page story in one sitting.
Stanley Ukridge, wannabe master of the scam, is one of P.G. Wodehouse’s lesser celebrated characters, but this episodic novel is still a sheer delight and filled with the usual wonderful turns-of-phrase.
It anticipates not just Withnail & I - via the larger-than-life central character and his more down-to-earth, long-suffering companion - but all kinds of TV series, such as Minder and Only Fools and Horses and things like that.
Wodehouse churns out an interesting and hilarious character called Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge in this novel.
Mr. Ukridge is a very optimistic guy who devises numerous outrageous plan to make a colossal fortune but sadly, with no capital.
The story revolves on sequences which he creates and manages his boyhood chum Corky Corcoran in helping to carry out his “intelligent” schemes.
The most interesting amongst his plans is setting up a Dog College which would become the Mecca for dog lovers in the future!
This book offers plenty of amusement and good humour for Wodehouse fans; undeniably an enjoyable and pleasant read!
This is the first of Wodehouse’s books that i’ve read that didn’t involve Jeeves.
I can’t say I was overly enamoured.
The book is set out in 10 shorter stories, many of which refer back to previous episodes, and are based around Ukridge trying to make money and in most case failing miserably.
The stories were quite short and I found myself reading quickly just to get to the end of them.
They do not have the same kind of humour that other Wodehouse novels do.
Quite disappointing and not the place to start with Wodehouse.
So many better novels have been written.
Although Wodehouse used the Ukridge character for some 60 years (the first Ukridge story was published in 1906 and the last in 1966), he only appeared in a relatively small number of stories. My guess is that it is because he is not as likeable as most other Wodehouse protagonists. He is a boundlessly optimistic sponger, a ne'er-do-well, a casual thief, and his countless get-rich-quick schemes always backfire to the detriment of both himself and the friends he involves - wonderful stories!
An excellent collection of stories centred on Stanley Featherstonehaugh (pron. Fanshaw) Ukridge, and his endless schemes to make a "colossal fortune". Several of the stories cover Ukridge's efforts as manager of the would-be heavy weight boxer, Battling Billson. Written in the first person by Ukridge's patient and long-suffering friend, Corky Corcoran.
One of the better Wodehouse books.
As a huge fan of Mr Wodehouse, I personally don't think it's one of his best and I found it difficult to like Ukridge at times. Still enough laughs and as gloriously written as always though.
