https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184654.The_Prophet_Armed
Each member of this pantheon, although no longer gilded by the burnished and obscuring light of youth, retains some measure of my affection -- either to a greater or lesser degree -- but no one has perhaps suffered a more precipitous drop on the pop charts of my esteem than Leon Trotsky.
Trotsky, meanwhile, had the goatee, the big poofy leonine hairdo, and -- fuck yeah -- the pince-nez.
The Prophet Armed was the first volume of Isaac Deutscher's three-volume biography of Leon Trotsky.
They conducted their revolution in the middle of World War I, while under attack by the Germans, succeeded in an almost bloodless overthrow of Kerensky's Menshevik government, then had to deal with several years of civil war against the White Russian forces of Denikin, Kolchak, and Wrangel -- not to mention an invasion of the Ukraine by the Polish.
At the end of this time, Russia was in the middle of a famine, industrial production was way down, and something new had to be done.Trotsky was not only the major player in the October Revolution, but founded the Red Army to combat the Poles and the Whites.
This is a book of big ideas and actions to match.
Once Big Ideas were the norm.
We've moved beyond that: through the period of little, lean and mean ideas to the time of No ideas.
But unfortunately it comes from either Michael Bay or a drone.But this book is about a different time.
Big Ideas ruled and people could shape destinies armed with those ideas, and yes, of course, they needed and wielded power.
It is instead a well-written, even enthralling account of a time where grand ideas coupled with visionary leaders moved people to act.
Günün akşamı, yine çok gizli bir şekilde, Smolni’ye gelmişti.
Genelkurmayla Askeri Devrimci Komite arasında dostça görüşmeler yapıdığı üzrine çıkan haberler yeniden kuşkulandırmıştı Lenin’i.
Devrimin başarılamayacağından hâlâ korkuyordu.
Troçki’ yi ve öteki liderleri soru yağmuruna tuttu; gerçekten Genelkurmayla anlaşmak üzere miydiler?
Ama sorularına verilen cevapları dinledikçe, Askeri devrimci Komite odasındaki sıkı çalışmaları, verilen emirleri, gelen raporları gördükçe, isyan liderlerinin uykusuzluktan şişmiş gözlerine, yorgun, tıraşlı, pis ama azimli ve rahat yüzlerine baktıkça arkadaşlarının kendi yokluğunda her şeyi göze alarak ortaya atıldıklarını anladı ve kuşkuları kalmadı.
Biraz çekinerek ve özür dileyerek, devrimin elbette bu şekilde hazırlanabileceğini söyledi – yeter ki başarıya ulaşsın.”(s.364)
The other reviewers are right to call this biography hagiography.
Although, since the Soviets kept such a tight lock on their historical information, and one can never trust Stalin's press releases as genuine, perhaps the limited information Deuscher had access to really did paint Trotsky in such a pristine light.
The serious problem with this book is that Deutscher sets out on too many goals at once, and thus fails to consummate any of them.
However, he should of stuck to one task at a time, and perhaps published several books on these maters individually.------------Reread.
Eh, not so sure this is hagiography anymore.
جهد جبار من المؤلف لتأريخ حياة تروتسكي بعدما حاول ستالين إخفاءها وطمس مجهوداته بسبب خلافاتهما. وجهد جبار كذلك من المترجم لترجمة عمل ضخم مثل هذا.في هذا الجزء بدأ من البدايات في حياة تروتسكي أو برونشتاين اسمه الحقيقي وما اسم تروتسكي إلا اسم أحد سجانيه الذي اتخذه قبل فراره، وياللعجب! والمؤلف اعتمد على كتب تروتسكي ومراسلاته ومقالاته في الصحف وذكر تفاصيل كثيرة سببت لي مللا في بعض الأجزاء وحتى انتصار الثورة البلشفية وقيادته للجيش الأحمر ثم تركه للجيش والالتفات إلى الاقتصاد وآراء الحزب حيالها وتنتهي هذه الترجمة بنهاية عام 1921. وبقية حياته في الجزئين الآخرين: النبي المعزول والنبي المنبوذ.

O da başka ülkelerin topraklarını emperyalist amaçlar için işgal etmek yerine, derebeylerin topraklarını istemekti.Lenin partisini devrime öncülük edecek tek parti olarak görüyordu, Troçki de onu kendisini işçi sınıfının yerine koymakla suçluyordu.
1.Dünya Savaşı sırasında Çar’a olan güvenin yerle bir olması ve işçi hareketinin muazzam güce ulaşması devrimin kalesi sayılacak olan Petrograd’da ihtilalle sonuçlandı.Ekim Devrimi’nden sonra Menşeviklerin bölücü politikalarından bıkan Troçki, Bolşeviklerin yanında yer almaya başlıyor.
Ama derin bir uzak-görüşlülükle bu aşamaları çok önceden görmüş, o sözler de şunlar:"O zaman parti örgütü kendisini tüm olarak partinin yerine kor; sonra Merkez Komitesi kendisini örgütün yerine kor; ve en sonunda bir tek diktatör kendisini Merkez Komitesinin yerine kor."Diktatör de zaten hazırda bekliyormuş…Yani sosyalizmin yararına atılacak olan adımlar, onun sonunu getirmiş.
In Tariq Ali's autobiography he recounts reading Deutscher's famous biography of Trotsky one weekend while laid up with the flu, and it converting him into a trot and catalysing his joining the IMG. Perhaps the other two volumes are more inspirational but this one rather had the opposite effect on me.
I'm no longer very active politically, but when I do have political conversations I'm often surprised to find that on many issues my views are apparently well to the left of liberal consensus.Granted I don't have much in the way of a positive alternative to the neoliberal world order.
Reading a biography of Trotsky may seem like a roundabout way to investigate this question, but then my temperament was probably always too baroque to make a good activist.The crimes of the Bolshevism have been roundly and rightly denounced by people of all political persuasions.
This book is pretty effing incredible. It's a lot more than a biography. Deutscher presents the political events of the era and the theory that Trotsky grappled with and developed in some pretty rich detail. Trotsky's life is the stuff of high drama. The social events of the time and place are inspiring. And Deutscher writes brilliantly. Boy, if this kind of history was taught in school...
Review to come after reading the rest of the trilogy.
Here we see Trotsky in all his glory, as perhaps he would have liked to be remembered, as a child prodigy who from humble rural beginnings quickly found his way in the world, as a professional revolutionary, as a brilliant polemist and orator, who even as a young man was seen as worthy counterpart to Lenin, and far above the rest of the Party, as a good hearted man who tried to promote harmony within the Party and failed at it, as a cultured, civilized "westernizer", much more appealing than the brutal Stalin, who came straight from the "log cabin" of czarist barbarism.
And when a revolution is based on head-scratching texts by the likes of Marx and Plekhanov, you know you're in for a long ride on a creaky prototype killdozer.
Once Trotsky's "permanent revolution" theory appears -- and Deutscher's genealogy of the concept is careful and baffling -- it's like Thomist metaphysics.
Irrelevant to almost everyone, possibly even a tad dumb, yet this sane genius gets sanctified for it.
So this is volume one of Deutscher's three-part bio.
I'm guessing Trotsky gets more irritating and effective as he enlarges, post-1921.
Yet my sympathetic association with Trotsky's ideas are diminished by a more careful read on how mercurial his passions could be and on his willingness to dispel niceties such as democratic freedom in pursuit of his aims (which themselves are a bit inconsistent during the latter years of his position in the new ruling class).
Darn!(From 2012)Volume I of a magisterial three-volume of Trotsky, this covers the period from his birth until the aftermath of the civil wars and the agonizing attempts to survive.
It is sympathetic to his views but not blind to his shortcomings, and covers all the see-sawing and mistakes that were a part of this era.
this is a brilliant work about one of the greatest political minds in History.
Trotsky was a genius, a committed revolutionary, and he had a few fatal flaws.
He believed he understood more than he really did.
I highly recommend people comparing trotsky's thinking to Rosa Luxembourg, who in my view is possibly the greatest revolutionary thinker of the 19th or 20th century, even if she was not as outright Brilliant as Lenin Trotsky or Marx.
However trotsky was a true marxist, partly because he did not believe in Orhtodoxy.
This is the first book I've been able to get through on the Russian revolution, and I found it fascinating.
The author, Isaac Deutscher, was reading Shakespearean tragedies while writing the book, and the narrative of this book does indeed show an arc from triumph to tragedy (and this is only the 1st of 3 books he wrote on Trotsky's life).
World events, personal pride and ambition (his own and that of others), grave mis-steps- all show up in this biography.
A very detailed if somewhat hagiographic look at Trotsky from his birth to the end of the civil war. Also, since it's an older book, it doesn't have access to the archives that were opened in the 1990s. For this reason, while it's a good book on Trotsky, it's missing some interesting information about the russian revolution as a whole that can be found elsewhere.
Mind bogglingly thorough history of Trotsky that started out for me as an assigned book for a Russian History class. I ended up becoming really fixated on Trotsky, so I read all three volumes. Everything you've ever wanted to know about the birth of Soviet Union and more.
End of volume one. End of the revolution. What good does it do to win the revolution and the civil war is there is nothing left? How do the workers unite when there is no more work, no more work places?
A sympathetic but not sycophantic portrayal of a remarkable man. Deutscher has no doubt socialism is the way to go, which helps him make good sense of the complex events of the Bolshevik revolution, though unfortunately at the expense of minimizing some of its worst aspects. I look forward to reading the further volumes.
OH WHAT INCREDIBLE DETAIL DEUTSCHER GIVES. I've also read half of the second volume, and I must say, the external reading he inserts to accompany Trotsky's path is daunting. Truly crucial if you want impeccable insights to Lev's earlier years.
En fait deux tomes pour un seul livre. A lire absolument pour comprendre que Trotsky a eu des idées condamnées ...puis reprises par Staline. In extenso. Un grand livre pour comprendre. Reste encore 4 tomes quand même ...
Whew - this was an adventure. Reads relatively easily, gets into the weeds in the right parts, a partisan account but up front about that.... I'm excited to read the other two books in the trilogy!
If it's hagiography it's damn good hagiography
This first volume in Deutchers biography of Trotsky takes us through 1921. Deutcher paints a picture of a man who is brilliant, courageous, determined, principled, and stubborn.Trotsky was born to a family of soon-to-be well-to-do peasants. He did very well in school, and had begun a course in mathematics. But while at University he came under the influence of student radicals, and though he initially held a skeptical stance, he was eventually convinced of the need for radical change to the auto
This was to be a pattern that repeated many times in his career.This is mostly a political / public biography, with scant attention paid to Trotsky´s personal life, other than some brief references to his leaving his first wife while in internal exile under the Tsar, and meeting and eventually marrying the woman (Sedova) who would remain with him until his death.In the complex, dangerous, and violent aftermath of the October Revolution, during the civil war aided by foreign invasion, we are shown a tireless and effective Trotsky leading the Red Army against the forces of reaction and counter-revolution.
Isaac Deutscher help us to know how the émigré leadership of future revolution worked in Western Europe for more than 15 years, when they were forced to go underground in Russia, their deportation to Siberia and enigmatic escapes from polar circle camps, Operation of clandestine works, production of socialist news papers, grouping already progressed European socialists etc.
On the eve of 1917 October revolution, Lenin was in his hideout, stamped as German spy and fear of assassination or arrest, Stalin was unaccountably absent, What more, Trotsky lead the revolution like true General, with brave resolution and without bloodshed.October revolution was followed by Russia’s withdrawal from WWI in Trotsky's initiative.
All 3 volumes: Returns from exile and along with Lenin he authors the Russian Revolution; organizes Red Army; writes numerous volumes on literature, art, economics, revolution.
Exiled from the Soviet Union by Stalin; family members imprisoned or hunted down and killed by Stalinist agents; ends up in Mexico; has affair with Frida Kahlo; ghost writes the Surrealist Manifesto for Andre Breton; meets with revolutionaries from around the globe; predicts the coming of fascism and war in Germany; likes to fish; takes up photography; carries pistol tucked in his waistband to deal with numerous assassination attempts on his life; continues writing criticism of Stalin and his betrayal of the revolution.
Murdered while editing an article written by his assassin who had posed as an admirer.
Further to my study of the Russian revolution, I've now read Deutscher's The Prophet Armed:Trotsky. This has been the most illuminating of all (the biographies of Lenin, Stalin, Luxemburg etc.) To say that the Russian revolution or 'the experiment' as it is sometimes called, failed is a great lie. It is such a shame that the West's fear of socialism or communism has covered up and miscast such a noble effort.
There have only been a very few biographies I've read that have been so compelling and so brilliantly conceived and written that I believe they are 5-star books. These include Edel's amazing study of Henry James and this one by Deutscher. This is an amazing life story of a exceptional but flawed man, who absolutely changed the history of the world.
