https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61900.Cordelia_s_Honor
With the introduction of a much larger and more interesting supporting cast than in the first book it's become obvious that writing characters is Bujold's greatest strength: her world-building is pretty shallow and the plots are for the most part straightforward and over reliant on somewhat cliched adventures but Bujold has now written an impressive cast of colourful, nuanced characters.
Fortunately the conclusion was strong: exciting action and some really cool moments where we learned more about certain characters and their motivations (insights into Sergeant Bothari and how his messed up childhood led to the development of the demons that have plagued him throughout the series were especially compelling).
It's a powerful and heartwrenching tale.The chronological sequel to 'Shards of Honor,' 'Barrayar' follows Cordelia Naismith as she defects from Beta, in order to make her way to Barrayar and find her former captor Aral Vorkosigan - a man she has come to love and respect.It's not incomprehensible that her Betan psychologists assume that she must be suffering from something like Stockholm syndrome, or some more insidious mental conditioning.
And that's not the only sudden change: Cordelia is pregnant.If you've read later books in this series, a great deal of this book is a lot of tension waiting for certain events that you've already read about, to happen.
I am really glad to have read them together.I really enjoyed Cordelia Naismith Vorkosigan as a main character.
I adored Bujold’s idea of uterine replicators to take the nasty part out of pregnancy—and all their medical procedures are first rate.Contrast that with Aral’s society on Barrayar.
As Cordelia struggles to figure out all of the nuances of this society, there are bound to be misunderstandings.
This is my first venture into Ms. Bujold’s writing, but I think I can safely say that I love her style and will happily work my way through this whole series.Books 211 and 212 of my science fiction and fantasy reading project.
The precursor to her Vorkosigan saga, this is an omnibus of two books featuring Miles's mother, Cordelia.
The second half is more political as Cordelia, now an outcast from her own culture, enters Vor politics in her own fierce and indomitable way.
Cordelia is witty, snarky, and tough, with an innate sense of right and wrong and true grace under fire.
I'm more interested in her character than in the events leading up to Miles' birth, as I've never had the time or inclination to commit to the full (seemingly endless) Vorkosigan saga.
The true beauty of this omnibus is that it stands alone, and gives great insight into Bujold's brilliance.
4.5 StarsCordelia's Honor is a fascinating novel, or rather a fascinating omnibus, having been split down the middle. Well not the precise middle but that middle we mortals all mean when we say middle. The middle that's a little to the left. However either way this novel was split into two novels, a sort of conjunctive novel, and as such I will discuss my reaction to the two different stories.  Shards of Honor  4 Stars This novel flings its readers directly into the action, causing the two roman
Aral Vorkosigan and Cordelia Naismith are two intriguing characters, however their romance proved to be unbelievable (a little fast paced and rushed).
I loved Kou and Drou, I found Aral and Cordelia to be one of the best relationships in fiction, not just science fiction, and I loved the complexity of Bothari as a character.
I particularly encourage the first novel for space opera and romance lovers and I particularly encourage the second for anyone who just loves a good sci-fi read.
It certainly is one of the best character driven sci-fi novels I've read and I will read more of the Vorkosigan Saga.
As I finish up listening to this series I couldn't help but go back and start a reread of the first two omnibus editions; both first read several years ago.Shards of Honor is still a book that does not do the series that follows justice.
It is disjointed, jumps in time without transition (though at least it avoids tedious filler of unimportant events) and lacks the mix of humor and serious later books have.
What amazes me though is how seamlessly she ties in a sequel to her first book after the next few books set 20 years later have already been written.
I'm not going to lie guys, I didn't like Shades of Honor which is the first book in this bind up.
A short story that made me cry so I kept going and I'm glad I did because Barrayar is amazing.“You should have fallen in love with a happy man, if you wanted happiness.
But no, you had to fall for the breathtaking beauty of pain.Barrayar takes place after the events of Shades of Honor and it follows a woman surviving in a society and world that's unfamiliar to her.
The first book, Shards of Honor is by far the weaker book; however, when taken with Barrayar, it works.Honor sets the stage by introducing the reader to Aral and Cordelia.
Cordelia's reaction and Aral's love I just couldn't buy.
I felt more for those characters, in particular Boni, then I did for Aral and Cordelia.Barrayar is completely different.
Bujold does a good job using both Bothari and Kou to explore the mental and physical effects of war on members of a Spartan society.I have to say, though, I do wonder about books like Barrayar.
She finds herself lost on an unfamiliar planet, and thanks to a mutiny within the Barryaran ranks, she is forced to rely on a gruff Barrayaran outcast named Aral Vorkosigan, better known to her people as the Butcher of Komarr.
There was apparently a fair amount of time between the publication of the first book of this story arc and the second, and it definitely shows; Barrayar is much more tightly plotted, better paced, and efficiently narrated than Shards of Honor, displaying Bujold’s evolution as an author between the two stories.
4 stars
Miles Vorkosigan, the hero of the series, is definitely my favorite sci-fi hero, but Cordelia, his mother, is much more.
She fights for her husband as only a Betan ship captain could, and she fight for her son’s life as any loving mother, and she wins in the end, although that victory comes with a painful price.
I love Cordelia and I enjoyed her story.
This book is a sci-fi adventure in form, a love story in essence, and an exploration of several deep and penetrating issues humanity has been wrestling with recently, from feminism to democracy.
Cordelia’s Honor, on the surface, seems a standard science fiction novel with just a dash of romance.
It has the customary interstellar war, political intrigue, and, of course, high-tech gadgets that we’ve come to expect from our sci-fi.
What makes this book special is its title character, Cordelia Naismith.Cordelia is not the clichéd woman you see in most science fiction.
And she definitely doesn’t stoop to flaunting her sexuality in a steel bikini either (no offense, Princess Leia).
In other words, she’s what I would consider the ideal female heroine: confident, resourceful, and intelligent.
* This book is definitely for more mature readers.
Miles suffers psychic scars in The Borders of Infinity that he's still suffering from 10 years later in Komarr.Likewise, the events of Cordelia's Honor are so inherent to the creation and growth of the characters and the galactic history of the universe Lois created in The Vorkosigan Saga, I can't imagine how anyone can get the same experience out of the other 18 books in the series without reading this one first.
After having read this one, not a single later book of the series will fail to remind you Bothari's existence--without his presence in the books at all after The Warrior's Apprentice.As Lois Herself has said, Aral Vorkosigan is the center of the series's universe.
Perhaps it's just the books I've been grabbing lately, but I've had a hard time finding lead female characters I like.
She's smart and likable and I wish there had been more books written through her eyes.Shards of Honor 3.5 starsThis is the first adventure and our introduction to Cordelia and Aral.
I did like the "shards of honor" theme though and the issues Aral was wrestling with.
It doesn't hurt if you like romance (there's nothing bigger than a kiss on the page but Shards of Honor, in particular, is first and foremost about two characters falling in love).
Fortunately for me Lois has graciously decided to make most of her Vorkosigan books available for FREE in digital formats on her publisher web site.
This works greatly in her favor as her characters are mostly complex and believable.Obviously characterization alone is not enough a decent novel needs a decent plot to give the characters something to do.
Fortunately I still have many vote vote books to get through before I have to start passing fort them.
Certainly I will be more than happy to start buying Lois non vote vote fantasy novels of which there are many.
I very much enjoyed these early books in the Vorkosigan saga, despite the fact that there are plenty of new-author moments that occasionally jarred me from the narrative.
For instance, SPOILERthe climactic scene in "Barrayar" where Cordelia and company break into the imperial palace, presumably to rescue hostages, and they come up in the bedroom of the usurper, who is asleep with the princess dowager.
After an annoyingly manipulative scene involving her son's shoe, the princess is killed in crossfire, thus becoming a symbol of the capital-t Theme: patriarchal society harms women irreparably.
Before I begin, allow me to puke in a corner.
To begin with, there were countless grammatical errors.
For one, Cordelia completely changed personalities.
After that, all her thoughts were were about her baby, playing matchmaker for Kou and Drou, or about how Beta Colony was so much better than Barrayar.
She regained a bit of her former personality during their rait, but immediately lost it when dealing with the birth, or with Kou/Drou.
It was all about Cordelia's whining about being pregnant or whining about how primitive Barrayar was, and it kept picking up and then suddenly dropping sub-plots.
Two halves of one book, IMO, this story anchors the entire series for the next 20 years of Lois's writing, Miles's life, and the universe's existence.
Which is, of course, named Cordelia ;-) The Admiral's Captain, Cordelia Naismith and Admiral Count Aral Vorkosigan, The Butcher of Komarr have quite the little love affair that wasn't.
Well, maybe while she was retching on his boots her eyelashes batted a bit but after that, she kept both eyes open and on the Enemy :) Great story, great love affair, great masterpiece of art created by a very humble Lady Bujold.
I read these separately, but together, they really make sense. From courtship to marriage to having a wonderful baby boy, it's definitely not about Miles, just as the title explains. Cordelia was always a very strong character in all of the books, but it was never as clear as here.
No studmuffin himself, Vorkosigan is in his 40’s and just barely taller than Cordelia (which makes him short for a man) Though on the outside he’s all business, inside he’s a honorable man who is reluctantly dragged into the political messes of his world.
You care about all of them, no matter how small their actual part in the story.The first half of the book, (Shards of Honor) covers the developing relationship between Cordelia and Vorkosgian through their trek on the survey planet and the Betan/Barrayan war.
I would have preferred less political intrigue and more Cordelia/Vorkosigan, but still Barrayar is one of the best of the genre (and it won the Hugo award for best novel).
But as they are thrown together, more or less alone (he's been betrayed by some of his soldiers, and the rest believe him dead), she comes to judge him as a good, even noble, man -- in spite of his own judgement that his reputation is at least somewhat deserved.(An aside: The single most unbelievable aspect of the book, to me, is the notion that Cordelia views herself as unattractive.
Their unexpected romance brings her to planet Barrayar where politics prove seriously life-threatening to them and their unborn son.I have long heard that Bujold’s Vorkosigan series was a good series.
To pour your life into sons for eighteen or twenty years, and then have the government take them away and waste them cleaning up after some failure of politics—no thanks.” (41)Vorkosigan: “The real unforgiveable acts are committed by calm men in beautiful green silk rooms, who deal death wholesale, by the shipload, without lust, or anger, or desire, or any redeeming emotion to excuse them but cold fear of some pretended future.
Shards of Honor The first of the Vorkosigan books surprised me by being more of a romance novel than I was expecting, but I don't begrudge it. It was actually refreshing to read a romance plot that didn't fall into the overused "Pride and Prejudice" formula. Bujold doesn't waste any time trying to make us think her heroine despises the hero, and he doesn't waste the whole novel bending heaven and earth to impress her. They both have their own lives and their own problems - namely that they're m
The first of the Vorkosigan books surprised me by being more of a romance novel than I was expecting, but I don't begrudge it.
Uh, no - I don't think so.) As a novel it works better than Shards: the plot is more coherent, the characters are better drawn, their motivations are more consistent.
Barrayar, on the other hand, has nothing but a run-of-the-mill attempted coup with antagonists who are neither complex nor particularly competent.Two things save it: 1) Cordelia's main concern isn't for winning the war, but for protecting her unborn son.
2) Piotr Vorkosigan, Cordelia's father-in-law, the only character with shades of gray.
I've read each of the novels years ago, probably more than once, and was reminded of them by a recent review.
Cordelia and Aral are a good example of an adult couple.
"That thing's edible!" "The stunner, the stunner!" cried Vorkosigan.
"Oh, good shot!" cried Cordelia ecstatically.
Vorkosigan grinned like a boy over his shoulder at her, and jogged after his prize.
Duty.
Stick to duty.Don't be fooled though.
This is proper science fiction, and a proper adventure story.
And there are timeless stories of family conflicts, loyalty and friendship.
5 stars for BarryarThis is as good a sci fi novel as I'm likely to read, by which of course I mean that it hit all the right notes for me.
This book includes so many elements of a great novel: a fascinating and varied cast of characters, lots of twisty intrigue, and adventure with the highest of stakes But what makes this book so emotionally searing is something that Bujold discusses in her afterword: this book explores the price of becoming a parent, particularly a mother, and does so not only for Cordelia and Aral, but with all the supporting couples providing 'symphonic variations' on the theme.
I'm already finished with Shards of Honor and it's a much more gritty military book on the re-read.
They really de-constructed Cordelia, especially at home.
I'm reading Barrayar too, but already dreading the poisoning scene.One huge advantage of this ebook edition is the afterword by LMB who mentions the main threads in the story she wrote and you really can see the thought of parents and children and what you sacrifice for family in Barrayar - where Aral basically has to pick up a whole empire to make sure his son will have a world worth living in, as will his Betan wife.
Cordelia's Honor is, I believe, what the introduction to the Vorkosigan Saga was meant to be - Shards of Honour and Barrayar as one complete story. I can not imagine reading the two, completely separated by numerous other books and short stories, as they are when read in publication order. I am curious as to how either made sense "alone", especially with Shards of Honour being so sparse in its detail and storytelling.
Hardly great literature, but a fun read.Almost not science fiction. Bujold sets most of his tale(s) on the planet whose "backward" culture and technology reads a lot like contemporary earth, maybe even overlaid with nineteenth century attitudes.
I reviewed these two books under their individual titles.
A great story of clashing cultures, betrayal, force vs cunning. I kept reading this book until five in the morning. :)
