https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/693016.Mine_Till_Midnight
Someone sprinkled crack onto the pages of this series. I have no other explanation for what is happening to me right now. I know you're probably expecting a review. And I'd love to write one. But the next book is staring up at me, whispering things. "Come on, Navessa. Just one more hit..."Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
There's the broken hearted 28-year-old Leo, the early 20-ish frail young beauty Win, the 20-something young Gypsy named Merripen who has lived with the Hathaways as sort of a pseudo-brother for the past 15 years, the two teenage sisters, Poppy and Beatrix, and the one holding the whole family together, the ultra-responsible and protective 26 year-old beautiful spinster Amelia.
But then he meets Amelia Hathaway, and she throws a curveball into all his plans, and what he thinks he wants for his future.Let me say I adored the character of Cam Rohan!
Her books are always a delightful escape and her heroes are always so sigh-worthy.This is a touching story about a tight knit, albeit quirky, family consisting of four sisters, Amelia, Win, Poppy, and Beatrix; their one brother, Leo, and Merripen, who as a young boy was wounded and left for dead following a Gypsy hunt.
Fortunately, that didn’t last too long and she eventually saw the error of her ways.Interestingly enough, the things that touched me the most about this book were not even related to Amelia and Cam, but Win and Merripen, which is who I felt the most connected to.
This book has everything I want in my HR read.A solid plot and interesting story.A determined and persistent alpha hero with a protective nature and possessive streak.A heroine who is strong and intelligent, but still very traditionally feminine.Perfectly smooth pacing and flow.Beautiful and touching romance.No pushing away.
(This is very important for me.)A sweet happy ending.In this book we meet Amelia Hathaway and Cam Rohan.Amelia had stepped up and taken charge of her family since her older brother, Leo, lost his fiancée to scarlet fever and he had become incapable of taking care of himself.
But then came Cam, an unusual man, a mysterious Rom who would change her life forever.
For all his prior determination to leave Amelia alone, once he decides he wants to keep her, Cam is pretty much set on that path.
I liked that although Cam does seduce Amelia, he has committed to her in his heart and won't go back on that commitment.
I like sweet heroines a lot more than some readers, but it's also nice to see heroines who do have bad days and temperamental moments.
I feel bad that he lost his true love, but he didn't seem to realize that he wasn't just hurting himself, but his sisters who depended on him.
Mine Till Midnight is the beginning of the Hathaways Sisters series, and while it doesn't explicitly say so, you need to read The Wallflowers series beforehand because SO MANY characters overlap and I feel you would be confused if you didn't.This book is about Amelia, the sister who is always looking out for her family as they experience one bad stroke of luck after the other.
While looking for her brother, Amelia meets Cam Rohan, a half Roma man who helps run a gambling house.
Instead of flying through this lightning fast like I did with the Wallflower books, I took my time and savored it, which was well worth it because Cam Rohan is like the finest, rarest dark chocolate.....exotically decadent and sinfully delicious!Mine Till Midnight is a beautiful read full of magic, mystery, lush sensuality, and enchanting romance with charming characters that you’ll fall in love with, especially the dark, mysterious, devilishly sexy half-Gypsy and prosperous club owner, Cam Rohan.
I think Cam Rohan might even be my favorite ever Lisa Kleypas historical romance hero, which is really saying something considering that all of her heroes are flat-out the swoon-worthiest, very best of the bunch!Mine Till Midnight is a lovely, engaging romance, and I’m looking forward to Win and Merripen’s story in Seduce Me at Sunrise.
La verdad es que empecé a leer este libro sin estar muy convencida, pues esta autora no terminaba de convencerme, pero para mi sorpresa, esta historia me encantó: ) Así que será cuestión de seguir ;)
Even the yard sale people won't stop their cars when they drive slowly by and see it sitting on your table.Cuz, seriously, what's more fun than haggling with someone like a used car salesman over an old toaster that may or may not burn one side of the bread while not heating the other side in the hot Texas sun?Amelia is a girl from a family with a "bad luck curse".
Both parents are dead, her best friend is dead, they inherited a title with a curse which means her brother is as good as dead, and their new house has a bee-room.
and before Amelia Hathaway stepped into his way, he wanted to leave behind everything and to seek his long lost race.When Cam and Amelia met each other, everything changed for both of them.Their plans couldn't take a love in them.
We have met him in "Devil in Winter" and he was a very interesting and intrigue man.The only thing that disturbed me a little bit was that obsession with the Gypsy legends and that way of life...
Excelente comienzo para la Serie “The Hathaways”.Empecé a leer esta historia sin haber leído la sinopsis y, por lo tanto, sin saber que el protagonista era Cam Rohan (que ya había aparecido en la serie “Floreros” de la misma autora y que, en su momento, me había parecido un personaje muy interesante y con mucho potencial).
Cuando Cam entró en escena se me aceleró el corazón y me puse muy contenta de leer su historia.
Me encantó saber más de Lillian y Marcus Westcliff (¡cómo adoro a Lord Westcliff!
Y me encanta (mucho) cómo Lisa Kleypas relaciona todas (o casi todas) sus novelas.
"Take me away." Mine Till Midnight is the first book in The Hathaways Series and to say I am late for the party is the understatement of the century. I have never considered myself a Historical Romance fan and yet, I have become a Hathaway addict! In this first book in the series, we are introduced to the Hathaway family. Amelia, the oldest, has spent her entire life caring for her younger siblings. After experiencing heartbreak, she has decided that she is to live the life of a spinster and sp
Mine Till Midnight is the first book in The Hathaways Series and to say I am late for the party is the understatement of the century.
In this first book in the series, we are introduced to the Hathaway family.
Cam is taken by Amelia and although he tries to stay away from her, the two are destined to find happiness together.
Told in dual POV, Mine Till Midnight offers a perfect blend of romance, passion, and family love!
Overall, I am officially a Hathaway addict and Cam and Amelia's love story is epic and one that I will never forget!
4 Hummingbird Stars ***Spoilers***When it comes to historical romance I am very picky. Over the years I have found that a lot of HR will have cheating and mistresses in their books. So much so that I quit reading HR books until I discovered Goodreads and was able to see spoilers and make sure there would be no cheating in that book. I was craving some HR and a friend said to try Lisa Kleypas that they loved her. So when I was out book shopping I found the whole Hathaway Series for 4.00, bought i
I connected and fell in love with all the characters including the secondary characters which just makes me want to read all their HEAs. Mine Till Midnight, the first book in the Hathaway series, was an awesome read that did a great job of hooking me.
Though she really wanted Cam she held him at arms length because she was worried that he would leave her like her ex or resent her for his lost of freedom.
I want you even knowing if I marry you, I've got an instant family, complete with a suicidal brother-in-law and a Gypsy houseboy with the temperament of a poked bear." "Merripen is not a houseboy." "Call him what you like.
CHERRY POPPING  Buddy read commences on the 25th Oct.========POST-REVIEWRe-edited to add Luke's review.As promised, Frozen review for our Frozen bearded fan.Luke, who had a turn to choose for our first BR, so needless to say, my turn to select this time.Naturally, I chose SMUT and this I told him.
And.His love for Amelia, I can't help but And Luke?*shakes head*The laddie has no romantic bones in that body of his.
“I’ve been thinking about your problem.” “What problem?” Cam played lightly with the folds of her skirts, watching her face alertly.
My wife.” Amelia froze in a moment of throat-clenching delight as she felt him slide the gold ring onto her finger, easing it to the base.“When we were with Leo, tonight,” she said scratchily, “I knew exactly how he felt about losing Laura.
“I'd agree with you, except that agreeing with you probably means I'm on the wrong side of the argument.""-Cam Rohan to Leo. Right now,The Shona is going all Love you too!!!
I loved Cam Roham since his first appearance in 'Devil in Winter', so I was more than thrilled when Kleypas made him the 1st hero in her new Hathaway series. Unfortunately, his story didnt live up to my expectations. Dont get me wrong, Cam was still as interesting as ever in 'Mine Till Midnight', but little else was up to par. :(Where do I begin? Well, lets take Amelia Hathaway, Cams heroine. She was nice enough, but I just didnt feel her "connection" with Cam. I got the feeling that she was mor
Ultimately, Cam and Amelia "paid the price": there wasn´t enough room to show the development of their relationship, because there was too much going on with the secondary characters (all aligned to be the heroes and heroines in the next Hathaways books, of course).On the happy side, I was more than pleased to see Marcus, Lord Westcliff, and Sebastian, Lord St. Vincent, making small appearances in this book.
The love-making scenes between Amelia and Cam are truly HOT and DELICIOUS and you would just die with passion in reading the juicy details that Lisa Kleypas puts into these scenes!For people who are not fond of sex scenes, this book has many sex scenes that might offend some people who do not like reading any sex scenes in any book.All in all, “Mine Till Midnight” not only has hot and sensual love scenes, but it also has a true depth about the importance of family that is uncommon in many romance novels.
So what is Mine Till Midnight?Hmm...I like to think of it as maybe one of those PBS period pieces like Downton Abbey only the HBO version, if you get my drift.But what is it?
Yes, maybe I should get her to read about pirates...)Recommended for adults and those who like HBO/PBS mashup sort of things.
Una historia preciosa y tremendamente emotiva. Me encantó la forma envolvente en que Cam, nuestro protagonista, logra poco a poco romper las barreras de independencia y autoprotección de Amelia, quien, después de la muerte de sus padres, asumió la responsabilidad de sus cuatro hermanos. Además del argumento romántico central del libro, la novela destaca por muchos otros componentes, incluyendo algunos de tipo paranormal. No me aguanté y comencé de inmediato el segundo libro de la serie, ya que en este también se adelanta la relación de otra de las hermanas Hathaway, con una trama que promete mucho más aún.
Leaning how to deal with their recent rise in society and trying to keep her brother from slowly killing himself, Amelia is at the end of her rope when she meets the handsome and mysterious Cam Rohan.
I didn't care for Leo as the story went on and didn't feel pity for him at the end of the book as I felt he was dragging not only himself but also his family down with him.
Overall: even with it's flaws, a great romantic read of two people learning it's okay to have a shoulder to lean on, of wanting a family and best of all: falling in love.
Updated review after re-read 5/3/15. Bumped up to 4.5 stars!"I find you thoroughly, deeply interesting. I want to open you like a book and read every page." A smile curled the corners of his lips ad he added huskily, "Footnotes included".Cam Rohan is the most wonderful hero of all times. Cam Rohan is protective, sweet, strong, wicked, charming, hot and everything you could ever wish for in a hero. He is mystic in the best sense of the word. "You're like someone from a fairy story written in a la
I want to open you like a book and read every page." A smile curled the corners of his lips ad he added huskily, "Footnotes included".Cam Rohan is the most wonderful hero of all times.
The first time I read the book I had a lot of trouble with Amelia.
I thought she was annoying, stubborn and didn't deserve Cam. This time around I liked her.
Yes, Amelia was stubborn and reluctant to trust Cam but it made a lot of sense from where she came from.
I can’t tell if Lisa Kleypas is A, a genius or B, has a time traveling machine in her office or something because her books act like some sort of portal that takes you back to London in 1848!
I’m thinking it’s the former because Kleypas knows her stuff when it comes to writing historical romances.
Becoming well-accustomed to the Gadjo culture, Cam grew successful in his life, but he still found something lacking...Until he meets Amelia Hathaway, the eldest sister of the eccentric family.
The nerve of that guy to say such insults about Cam and Amelia...I’ve come to adore this series and all the characters in it.
Δεν μου άρεσε σχεδόν καθόλου η πλοκή αλλά μόνο οι χαρακτήρες.Θα διαβάσω όμως τη συνέχεια για να δω πως θα εξελισχθεί η ιστορία της Win με τον Merippen
I don't often read about gypsies--last time being Jericho Barrons and that character still affects me till this day ;-D--, but I sure as hell want to if they all come looking like Cam(or Jericho, hehe!).Amelia was hard headed and annoying at times, always taking it upon herself to mind everyone's business.
But she did go over board only to be tempered by Cam, another reason I loved him so much.This was a beautiful story giving us a glimpse of the predjudices of the day, that remain to this day unfortunately.
This is Amelia and Cam’s story, but a lot of Kev and Win’s story is in this one.
She’s the oldest and strongest sister.
Leo took away a lot in this book for me.I adore Cam. I love that he is a Gypsy and he has a good luck curse where he always makes money.
I love his attraction towards Amelia and they have good chemistry.
Amelia was a bit difficult in my opinion, always pushing Cam away, but she did create good tension.
What's this strange feeling that's warming me up from the inside and making me feel dizzy with joy? *looks around the room, bewildered*But yes! It's the sweet, lovely, sexy, thrilling, incredible Historical Romance expressing all its potentiality! It's been ages since I've felt this way and almost didn't recognize it. Dear GR friends and members of this community in general, please meet Cam, the biggest HR, period movies and TV series, and history enthusiast on the planet. She's watched the Siss
She loves gentlemen like Cam Rohan, the book's hero, who respect women and defend them against violent, narrow-minded assholes, who think they're just a fun pastime.
One of the reason why I fell in love with this book, is definitely because of its original and modern elements.The heroine, Amelia Hathaway, has lost both her parents and has since become a mother figure for her other four siblings, three sisters and one brother, to the point of actually giving up on the chance to ever find a husband.
Amelia finds Cam thrilling and he awakens a hidden passion within her, and in one sensual embrace has altered her life forever...for she knows that he is her destiny.Mine Till Midnight is the first in the Hathaway Series by Lisa Kleypas.
It was a thrill to read Mine Till Midnight, and even though this isn't the first time that I have read this book, I just fall in love with it every time that I read it.
Keeps you on your toes with every adventure, every kiss and each moment that will leave you breathless...A UNFORGETTABLE STORY!!!
To my delight, they were quite right.Mine Till Midnight was a quick, highly-readable, story.
As she struggles to keep everybody in check, including a self-destructive brother, her path crosses with Cam Rohan.
Cam, a man torn between two worlds, is enraptured by Amelia's charm, and even she is opposite to his path to freedom, he can't seem to stay away.The chemistry between the two main characters is sizzling and powerful.
Furthermore, the remaining Hathaway siblings are so well-drawn, I knew immediately, I would want to read their stories.Sexy and tender, witty and fast-paced, Mine Till Midnight is a keeper.
This didn't hit every single right note for me but it's been a long time since I dipped into a good Kleypas read and so I'm willing to overlook some of the niggly bits because so much of this was amazing and I loved losing myself in the magic of it all. Oh how I missed this author's writing, her characters (of which we have many familiar faces!), and I can't wait to see where this pack of siblings ends up but, more importantly, how they get there.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
