https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/837086.The_Loving_Cup
I actually felt like I were sharing this stressful time with the Poldark clan.(view spoiler)[The ever snotty Cuby's rejection of Jeremy Poldark has sent him into a tailspin causing him to run away to join the army; buying a commission with his ill-gotten gains.
Hopefully he can finally forget Cuby.I'm delighted that Clowance has broken her engagement with the ne'er do well Stephen Carrington.
I hope this guy goes down with his ship.This book ends with Napoleon being exiled and Jeremy Poldark returning to his regiment in Belgium - very close to Waterloo - where the escaped Napoleon seems to be heading!
pg 187 "...Caroline had found Demelza and was telling her gleefully of a splendid new novel she had just read called Pride and Prejudice, the author was anonymous, but such was its comic insight that Caroline was not surprised to discover it had been written 'by a lady'. "
To tell you how well written these books are, and how deeply immersed into them I become while reading, when I close the book I find it amazing that I'm in the modern world and not standing in a dirt road watching oxcarts filled with goods, horses as the means of transportation, women in long dresses, men in breeches and tricorn hats, and beggars in rags.I love this series so much I find it hard to express it without gushing.
Just like our own families, grown children make mistakes and bad decisions, parents can only watch and hope for the best.
And sometimes parents have secrets of their own.
Graham continues to amaze me with his ability to spin a story that has never-ending interest.
I held my breath, quite literally, during parts of this book, and I find myself just as involved in the second generation's well-being as I have been with the first generation.
To my delight, Ross and Demelza still play an important role in the story and have not been left behind in favor of the younger group, but of course, their roles have changed just as they would have done in life itself.I am sad to know I am nearing the end of this series.
It will be bittersweet to reach the end.
Another wonderful addition to the Poldark series. This one centers on the next generation, Jeremy, Clowance, Geoffrey Charles and Valentine. Ross and Demelza (and George) are still in the story, but no longer the central part. Lots of excitement, secrets and new love. War with France is winding down. Lastly, how does a little silver loving cup fit in?
I read the entire series of 12 books and loved every one of them. I recently finished the last one and am having "Poldark withdrawal"! They are excellent written books with characters you come to know - some you love, some you hate and all are part of a glorious story. I am not going to comment on each book, but just say that they are enjoyable, you will laugh, cry, hold your breath and find yourself immersed in late 18th/early 19th century Cornwall.
Cue TV detective music--"Dun Dun Duuuun!" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=61L6h...
No mines caving in or fortunes lost, but plenty of surprises of a milder nature.
Will Jeremy, Stephen, and Paul fall into George's trap and be caught for their robbery?
Which of her suitors will Clowance choose?There is still plenty of Ross and Demelza mining, gardening, politicking and loving.
Still plenty of Warleggan scheming.
But there is also Music Thomas and his clumsy attempts to woo the love of his life, Stephen Carrington and his shipping, and a Poldark's return to Trenwith (Geoffrey Charles still holds his childhood dream of hiring Drake to oversee the house).
Demelza and Ross continue to be wonderful, if a bit misguided (Especially with Demelza covering her son's tracks there) and George is actually making me feel sorry for him due to his ridiculous wife.
Ursula needs a voice and I hope she gets one next book.
I really also liked Valentine and his underhandedness and how he basically showed his father how things were.
I enjoyed him more in this book than in the others and despite his auspicious beginnings, he's showing a lot of Ross and his grandfather and then some.
This continuation of the saga brought a lot of closure to many of the characters' personal problems. New and surprising pairings of people. A surprising breach between father and son. But leaves enough dangling danger and drama to keep me coming back. Two more books in the Poldark saga and I will have to move on. It has been a lot of fun and really keeps you close to the characters.
The Loving Cup (Poldark, #10), Winston Graham
Soap opera romance occuring while England battles Napoleon.
I enjoyed this installment in the Poldark series more than the last book or two.
There are new characters to savor and great twists and turns in the plot lines of some old characters.
However, his wife got exactly what was coming to her!
Ross and Demelza make a better appearance in this book than in the last, and Clowance and Jeremy are coming into their own now even though I'm mad at them for some of them of their stupid choices.
There's never a stopping place where everyone can have a happy ending all at once!Local friends, PLEASE borrow my books if you're reading this series!
The tenth Poldark novel sees Geoffrey Charles finally returning home to Trenwith, with his new Spanish wife Amadora.
The place has been much neglected; but the young couple are determined to make it homely again, and they plan a huge housewarming party.Jeremy Poldark's life is running along similar lines to his father, Ross.
Crossed in love,however, he finds no other, and pines for Cuby as she agrees to marry Valentine.
She finds the "Loving Cup" of the title, and realises that it represents danger to Jeremy.
This is the tenth book of the Poldark's saga.The wars against Napoleon are coming to an end.
Geoffrey Charles returns to Trenwith after fighting Bonaparte in Spain and with a Spanish bride.
George Warleggan married to a Duke's sister but Valentine does his best to break his heart.In the meantime, a silver cup lies half-forgotten in a dark cave, amongst a pile of stolen goods.
Yet the tiny vessel and its inscription 'Amor gignit amorem' haunts the lives of the still-feuding Poldark and Warleggan families.
Demelza will play an important role in this search.This saga will continues with two more volumes: The Twisted Sword and Bella Poldark.
I was so worried somebody was going to be in jail by the end of the book. Very nerve wracking stuff.I am so into this family and their good and bad actions it is just not even funny. Is this true?Valentine said, "Pleasure thrives on wickedness." pg.497I really thought Clowance and Stephen were NEVER right for each other. I was pleased to see her dump him and it took some doing to see her decide he was right for her. I don't expect him to last long though.
Each book I read now is the best one yet. I am not doing much other than reading this series! Will be sorry to finish them. Only two left!
For me, this is the most suspenseful novel Winston Graham has added to the Poldark series thus far. I so desperately wanted to abandon all my chores and stay up all night reading through to the end. A wonderful page turner with a couple of twists I never saw coming. Not just historical fiction at its best but also a credible suspense novel. The skill with which Graham can create mystery and suspense is showcased here and after reading this installment it's easy to see how Winston Graham would have been admired by Alfred Hitchcock.
Moving along. Some interesting events but all pretty tame compared to the last book. Generations are shifting focus and I'm curious to see where then next group leads us.
There are two more books, but I think I will be a little sad when I reach the end.Spoilers...I had a feeling that the coach robbery from the last book would play a prominent role in this one.
So that ended in the best possible way for the two of them.
Though I really wish Stephen wouldn't do business with the Warleggans, I feel like he's playing with fire.Both Jeremy and Clowance got married in this book, and while they both have issues, hopefully their relationships will be happy.
We'll just have to see what happens to her in the remaining books.
LOTS of suspense and underlying tension in this novel! I'm becoming very fond of the character Music. I still don't like Stephen, but he has grown on me just a little. Valentine is mostly---a twerp. However, he does establish himself away from George, which is a redeeming move. I'm hoping somewhat desperately that Demelza's thinness, that everyone keeps commenting on, is not caused by any major medical issues!
What? I can't believe what happens in this installment of the Poldark series! Jeremy does something utterly out of character for him and it makes me think that Graham has a deep understanding of the complexities of love and what drives people to do what they do. Loved it, but now I'm so concerned about some of my favorite characters! On to the next book!
The Poldarks and all grown up and living through the Regency. Much is discussed of Wellington and Napoleon, the wars, the uprisings in France, along with matters closer to home. Many very pleasing twists in this storyline and characters are as believable as ever. Next!
I remember reading the whole series of Poldark books way back but couldn't remember what happened in the later ones - so pleased I decided to re-read them. Straight on to the next now!
Another great book in this series. I enjoyed this more than the previous two mainly because we spent more time with the original characters...my favorites. I must also say that as I get more involved in the lives of the younger generation I am becoming more comfortable and engaged with them. I'm really sad I only have 2 books left....
The whole stage robbery made my colon clench, and I doubt we've heard the end of it, despite Smelter George's failed attempt to ensnare the presumed culprits.I realize the context of the times and the overall sucky thing it is to be a woman, but I'm also shaking my head that Ross should finally give fatherly advice and that it should be to carry Cuby off by force.
Of course, Stephen has sold his soul to the Warleggan bank (without a protest from the addlepated Clowance) and no doubt disaster looms as George is bent on destroying any Poldark possible.
Love the Poldark seriesI am still enjoying the series. I must admit the first books are better than the latter ones, but I still want to know what happens to the characters.
Hurrah! A good one. So the Poldark and Warleggan kids are all growing up and settling down, plotting their futures and for the majority it appears happy.... so why the impending sense that it's all about to go horribly wrong in the next book?
I don't know why this one took so much longer to read - I really liked it. There is a return to several storylines I missed, including Drake and Morwenna, and a blessed minimum of Stephen. Also, George gets another shock, which is always pretty awesome.
It took a while to get there, but I finally care about Jeremy and Clowance. This novel had a nice balance of Ross and Demelza to the new generation.
Absolutely fantastic! Beware the cliffhanger, but I needed little inspiration to move on to The Twisted Sword. I will lament the end the series.
