https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31541306-last-flight-from-singapore
Last Flight was his second wartime memoir.
He was in one of two RAF squadrons sent to bolster the defenses in Malaya, but they arrived to late to reverse the tide of Japanese conquest.
They were in fact swamped by overwhelming numbers of Japanese planes.
The RAF squadrons evacuated the island when their flying fields came under Japanese artillery fire.
Donahue was in the last flight of three or four fighter pilots to fly out.
He then participated in the equally hopeless defense of the Dutch East Indies.
Eventually evacuated to Ceylon and then India, he recuperated, returned to flying status, and after some problems with red tape returned to Great Britain.
Great adventureA story of the early part of WWII. I have read a lot books covering familiar battle zones . This narrative took me to an area rarely talked about. Very easy to read, riveting in some places, light humor, and very descriptive as the author writes about his missions. Be prepared for a sad ending.
Avery good wartime memoirThis was a pretty well-written memoir of an American Spitfire pilot during the Battle of Britain . It was modestly rest written as the writer was self-effacing and didn't claim any heroics . Sadly he was killed shortly after the work was published in 1942 . That's very sad because he showed the makings of a very good writer whose promise would never be fulfilled .
Exploits of a heroThis is a first hand account of a American pilot flying with the royal air force, in Singapore and in book two England.
The story is engrossing made all the more so in that he did not survive the war.
He details the raw emotions of aerial combat, from fear to boredom , then courage as the fight is joined.
Though America was not yet in the war pilots like him , brave young men went to England to fight.
I stand in awe of them, so far from home , fighting on foreign soil to keep the fight from reaching America's shores.
A narrative from the first American to join the British Royal Airforce before American entered the war on that fateful Dec day when Pearl Harbour was attacked.This airman recounts his early activities, sacrifices and his arrival, and the too soon exit from Singapore as the last flight out.
The airman is a humble young man who is fighting the war and doing his 'bit' as the reader will soon read.
Wounded, sent back to England and posted somewhere in Britain the young man, through his letters to his family, tells of his view and actions in the war.
May he rest in the arms of the Lord.
Another young person who never returned from war.....
may they all rest in peace.
Not worth it I'm afraid. Sadly he was killed during the war, and this is wartime propaganda. There are names blacked out so it is useless for historical information. Not sure if I could believe it.
A straightforward matter of fact account of the war with the Japanese in Malaya. told by an American fighter pilot who joined the R A F.A very brave fighter who sadly was killed in action in September 1942, at the very young age of 29, but in that relatively short time he lived an exciting fulfilling life.We should celebrate young men such as Arthur whatever their nationality.I was given a digital copy of this book by the publisher Endeavour via Netgalley in return for an honest unbiased review.
The 2nd book by Art Donahue, continuing his eyewitness account of WWII from the perspective of an American fighter pilot serving with the British RAF. Having participated in the Battle of Britain (recounted in his first book), he ended up in the Far East fighting in the defense of Singapore and the islands of Indonesia.A truly humble man, Art Donahue deserves to be remembered as a hero, and his books are well-worth reading.
Almost like being there. It is written like you are his best friend and are living the story right along with him. I almost felt like I'd lost a great friend when at the end it was divulged that the author got shot down and killed. Very sad. I really enjoyed the book.
A good readThe is an interesting personal account of an American pilot during the early days of WWII in Britain and later in Singapore. If you're interested in buying you'll enjoy this book.
A Good ReadAn interesting book.Through air battles in different countries and climates and wounded then hospitalized all as it actually happened at that time a very interesting read.
Exciting.A most informative book of the war in the middle east. Shame he was supposedly killed. A very interesting story. Can almost see the airdromes.
A brilliant account of the fall of Singapore from a pilots perspective. The author is able to entertain but also show the horrors that occurred during the bleak times.
InterestingInteresting read. More adventure than I would like. Sometimes more more detailed than I care for. Worth the price. Good read
