https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1528926.Greenery_Street
Denis Mackail's Greenery Street (1925) brings something a little different to the female-dominated Persephone list, in that is one of the few novels they have chosen to publish which was penned by a man.
Where does all that gaiety and kindness come from when in real life I am a cynic and frequently a wet blanket as well?'The Greenery Street of the novel's title is based on Mackail's Walpole Street, in which he lived; it 'consists of thirty-six narrow little houses - all, at first glance, exactly the same'.
But that is certainly not the case with this charming, amusing and engaging story about the first year of marriage of a young, upper middle class couple in London in the 1920s.
After penning a number of apparently well-received novels and other books, Mackail gave up writing when his wife died prematurely.
Although it features an upper middle class couple who have servants, it's essentially a chronicle of the ordinariness, the frustrations and the comedy of everyday life.
Like Benson and Pym, Mackail writes with warmth, subtlety and humour.
'Greenery Street' is a very good novel.
PG Wodehouse described this 1925 novel as 'so good that it makes one feel that it's the only possible way of writing a book, to take an ordinary couple and just tell the reader all about them.'I couldn't agree more.
I found the book utterly charming, and Ian and Felicity are adorable and so true to life.
I don't think I have read a single bad Persephone book yet!!!!Very sad that Denis Mackail's work is so unknown, he had a real talent for writing.
This is a story of the first year of married life for a young couple, Ian and Felicity, and their first home on Greenary Street. We read about all their trials and tribulations, from learning to manage the household accounts to handling (or not) difficult servants and how to ask your neighbours to return your things. This sounds rather dull but I really enjoyed spending time with these two and was a bit sad to finish the book. One to savour.
So evocative of the 1920's.We follow Ian and Felicity in their first year of marriage living in Greenery Street.I loved it and hadn't realised that Denis Macckail was Angela Thirkell's brother.Another favourite author of mine.
What a lovely book. I dove into this after becoming depressed by a litany of apocalyptic movie previews. How satisfying it was to take a stroll down Greenery Street, where everyone is absurdly in love and terribly overdrawn. If you're looking for an escape from the gloom of modern life, this is a great book for you. Denis Mackail's humor isn't as wicked as his sister Angela Thirkell's, but it is nonetheless charming. As a happily married old dame, I found this to be highly refreshing; took be back to the halcyon days of our honeymoon apartment in Montclair, NJ.
It is so refreshing to read about two people - a couple - who like each other! Who actually like spending time together! And telling each other things! This is a lovely - a charming - book. And funny too. At first I thought it was going to be a bit gentle and slightly stuffy but then I laughed out loud on page 17 and again on page 26 and then I knew it was going to be alright.
First published in 1925, the narrative is not particularly plot driven but rather provides vignettes of Ian and Felicity’s life together as a new family navigating financial difficulties, social engagements, awkward servant relations and minor squabbles.
Persephone Books recently posted an E.H. Shepard illustration for Greenery Street on Instagram, with a caption remarking that the novel is ‘bizarre because it’s impossible to imagine that our ancestors lived like that only 90 years ago, the change in the way we live now has been so HUGE.’ I both agree concur and strongly disagree with this statement.
It delighted me to read in the introduction that Mackail based Greenery Street on newlywed experiences with his wife Diana, to whom he remained happily married until she passed away.
This novel is a delightful account of the first year of a newlywed couple, Ian and Felicity, living together for the first time.
However, Denis Mackail turned this notion on its head with Greenery Street, and wrote a funny and endearing story based on his own years as a newly married man living on Walpole Street.The voice of the narrator helps with the pace of the story - part third-person omniscient, part stage director, it adds to the charm of story, treating the characters with the right amount of tenderness and irony.
This novel (first published 1925) concerns the first year in a young couple's married life.
This is a very readable novel, touching and funny at times.
Although there is at times an unseen narrator who addresses the reader in the manner of a greek chorus, explaining and or commenting upon certain habits and traditions of that society - a device I'm not all that keen on - although I did get used to it.However the central characters are likeable, and often funny - they refer to their maid as The Murderess - as they think that is what she looks like.
Their new married life takes some getting used to - although they are devoted to one another.
I loved the drollness of this book about a young couple in their first year of marriage. It is perhaps the most charming of all the charming British novels I've read this year.
A novel of manners in 20's London -- a young couple settling to home on a street of houses where their neighbors are just like them.
The narrator perches like a figurine on the mantlepiece and gives us the inner dialog of the new bride and her husband.
The couple were too embarrassed and self-conscious to discuss any topics concerning sex, like family planning, or her sister's affair.
They seemed entirely scripted in their dialog and their relationship (this was Mackail's intent I'm sure).
She was the dependent and adoring wife, he was the tender and responsible husband, and they could never admit to feelings that strayed from the ideal.
Sweet little book on the first year of marriage in 1925-ish London. It was well done, loved the details, but somehow I never got to caring about the characters or even liking them much.
Light and humorous, this is an enjoyable story of a young couple (with their Pekingese Ajax) and their first year of married life on Greenery Street in 1920s London.
Possibly this is really more of a four-star book than five-star, but dash it all, I just adored it. My life has been full of depressing and stressful situations lately, and what I wanted more than anything at the beginning of this holiday weekend was to pick up something that commanded my utter and complete attention. I feel like I've been on holiday for a week. How I wish this was just the first of a series about Felicity and Ian's life together.
This is a gentle, funny story about a newlywed couple moving to the street of their dreams, in London, and embarking on their first year of marriage.
It's nothing challenging but it's funny and touching and insightful and VERY well-written.
This was a book (and author) who was loved and respected by P.G. Wodehouse, J.M. Barrie-- and all of his celebrity friends.
I really can't say enough about this book-- other than I felt I was also living on Greenery Street and was already feeling homesick for it in the last pages.
I thought this was a charming look at a couple's first year of married life.
Of course, some of the struggles Ian and Felicity face--handling servants, for example--seem as if they come from another world, which I suppose they do (the book takes place in the 1920s.) But other challenges, like budgeting and learning to live with another person, are those with which anyone can sympathize.
It's a very funny book at times, too.
All in all, a very enjoyable read.
I wonder if anyone has read the two sequels mentioned in the foreword of the Persephone edition?
A very adorable, yet readable story. Watching the beginning stages of the wife, as she assumes this new role, is a little trying to read. Fortunately, their actions as newlyweds quickly becomes less cringe-worthy and more interesting. The author tends to insert curious scenes of the house or curators of the house, watching over the couple and commenting silently. These were my favorite moments in the book: an all-seeing home watching this couple, as it has thousands of couples, go through the same motions of their first year of marriage.
An absolutely charming story of early married life. I love Persephone Books for rescuing minor masterpieces of the first half of the XXth century from oblivion and reprinting them under their distinctive grey cover with floral endpapers. Theese books are lovely objects to hold and hoard, and the stories are a throwback in time. At various points I felt Mackail was going on too long, but every time I was caught again by his unpretentious humor and wisdom. He has a pitch-perfect sense of dialogue and for a great, easy read, I would go no further.
Brilantní kniha o prvním, nejzamilovanějším a svým způsobem nejbezstarostnějším roce manželství, kdy pro vaši ženu, služebnictvo a psa ještě může stačit maličký třípatrový viktoriánský dům. A podobných obskurních detailů ze života střední třídy v Londýně počátku dvacátého století je kniha plná. A přesto zůstává aktuální - v líčení opatrnosti a vyhýbavosti s jakými používáme jazyk (a nikdo se v tomhle nemůže rovnat Britům), pokrytectví s nímž se vlichocujeme druhým, abychom je za zády pomlouvali.Kniha ovšem není žádnou moralitkou, ale svérázným humoristickým románem, který si opravdu užijete.
Bizarrely, although I found this book extremely slow-moving and put it down for weeks at a time while reading it, I actually really enjoyed it. There is something about the way it is written that is so charming and witty. I really felt like I was peering through a window into 1920s England, and getting a feel for the challenges, flaws and emotional traumas of a couple of that social status in the period.
This book grows on you. Nothing happens and it is a quiet, gentle story told from an unusual viewpoint, an omniscient voice of the house/street. This may be a bit too long and the pace is polite and slow. So polite that the hint of infidelity and drinking are shocking. Worth reading as a reflection of the time. Excellent forward places book in context.
The author described this as a faithful portrait of life. His reviewers described it as comedy. I find it somewhere between the two. It's a very unprentious sort of a book, easy to read, and while nothing big happens, it is alive with all the dramas of an undramatic life. Quite nice.
Just delightful. I spent most of my time reading it in calling out all the best bits to anyone else in the room with me. It is extremely funny, sympathetic, - and yes, possibly a little dated in some of the detail - but still timeless in its approach.
I really enjoyed this one. I read that P.G. Wodehouse liked it a lot and that was recommendation enough for me. A delightful story of a young couple setting up housekeeping for the first time on Greenery Street. A hidden treasure. I'm glad I found it.
A delight!
#Teamdaphne
The whole time I was reading it all I could think about was those Doris Day, Rock Hudson, and Tony Randall movies from the 50s with that silly misunderstandings humor.
I loved those movies growing up.
I totally get the place where those movies are made from: the need to laugh, to get away from reality.
I really would have loved getting that humor in book form, but today all I can think of is that one silly wife and one naive husband.
This book is worth remembering the place it comes from, an example of the type of humor it brings.
3,5-4 starsIt took me a while before I realised that it is written like a play. I loved the characters and I found the underlying humor a perfect way to describe the way of life at that time. A homage to a street.
The most lovely novel I have read in recent months. Witty dialogues take you to comfy Greenery Street and the perks of newslyweds life. <3
The most lovely novel I have read in recent months. Witty dialogues take you to comfy Greenery Street and the perks of newslyweds´ life. <3
