https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357.The_Long_Dark_Tea_Time_of_the_Soul
I had to re-read this because I'm insane but I'm happy to be so because I still loved it.Total truth time: it's not quite as funny or as sharp in the individual zinger lines as Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency, but the long-running story gags are fantastically wicked and cruel and even profoundly sad.It's also more of an adventure tale for Dirk later on, but primarily, it's all a mystery.
The novel is brilliant and creative and so darkly funny.
It's the novel that I first thought of when I first read American Gods.
Add to that a weird incident at Heathrow airport (it had it coming if you ask me, I hate that place) and several encounters with fridges and a Coca-Cola vending machine and you get the usual silliness for which Douglas Adams was so famous for.However, as is also signature DA, no matter how silly his characters or observations, they are also spot on.
The whole time I read the speech he gave Dirk I kept hearing Donald Trump (you know, the pronunciation, the repetition, "the greatest", ...)!Nevertheless, despite such golden moments of comedy and the fact that (view spoiler)[Norse gods (my second favourite canon) (hide spoiler)] were in this, I didn't love this as much as the first book.
Unlike his “Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy” series (a collection of humorous vignettes without much of a plot, continuity, or character development), Douglas Adams’ Dirk Gently series (two novels and some sketches for a third one, included in the “Salmon of Doubt”) is in fact literature of the first degree.
No charge”).Laced with Adams’ trademark humor, this novel certainly puts its author in the same category with Mark Twain, Chekhov, and Maupassant.
I was definitely going through a ‘I love everything Douglas Adams’ phase at the time and while I still like this book because sometimes the ridiculousness of the plot and randomness of how everything happens is still so much fun I didn’t enjoy it as much as I did back then.There are some great things in this.
This was largely because of his method of “Zen” navigation, which was simply to find any car that looked as if it knew where it was going and follow it.
“Insofar as she recognized at all that she was dreaming, she realized that she must be exploring her subconscious mind.
You don't need me to tell you to read this book, if you've gotten this far you're either already a fan of Adams or like me you picked it up because of the moody title and should have now found out that it's a sequel to the original Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency.
So good was his performance that I read through this book today and could only imagine him as Dirk, as if Adams wrote it with him in mind (impossible but Dirk doesn't have any problems with impossible, as long as he can find out how it's done.)4.
I love Douglas Adams but this book missed the mark a wee bit for me. Although the stuff with the gods was fun I'm not sure how much help Dirk was and the ending was a little abrupt. But otherwise, there were some funny parts.
On the sentence level, Adams is still writing furiously funny jokes, but The Long, Dark Tea-Time of the Soul ends up feeling like first-class humor wrapped loosely around second-class plot and characters.
I also found the conclusion lacking: at the end of Dirk Gently's..., I said "Fantastic!" aloud to the room around me; at the end of The Long, Dark...
I turned the page and, when there was nothing else to read, said aloud, "That's it?" So: five stars for humor, but minus two for poor plot and flow.
So, I thought I was going to love it, and I did!But then I came to the last few chapters, and it seems like someone was on Adams's case, asking him to finish the damn book.
The whole thing seems hurried, with characters jumping around and events taking place so fast that you couldn't even tell what had happened until you've read it again.
His randomness, which is endearing when used carefully, is tossed about everywhere, as he ties up every single loose end in a matter of a few paragraphs.I won't lie; I felt cheated by the end of this book, and I don't like to be cheated.
'Once you have discounted the impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.' ""I reject that entirely," said Dirk sharply.
How often have you been presented with an apparently rational explanation of something that works in all respects other than one, which is just that it is hopelessly improbable?
The idea that she is somehow receiving yesterday's stock market prices apparently out of thin air is merely impossible, and therefore must be the case, because the idea that she is maintaining an immensely complex and laborious hoax of no benefit to herself is hopelessly improbable.
Sarò subito sincero: se avessi letto questo libro in solitaria, molto probabilmente il voto sarebbe stato un 2 (e quindi grazie Chiara).Ma la verve e l'assurdo umorismo di Adams ben si prestano a una lettura in compagnia: ci vuole una spalla all'altezza, per apprezzare appieno le tante insensatezze che costellano questo strampalatissimo romanzo.Sono inoltre ragionevolmente certo che l'incomprensibilità di quasi tutto ciò che è scritto qua dentro può condurre a voli pindarici più o meno costruttivi.
They really have nothing to do with each other, but I like them."It can hardly be a coincidence that no language on earth has ever produced the expression 'As pretty as an airport.'Airports are ugly.
This ugliness arises because airports are full of people who are tired, cross, and have just discovered that their luggage has landed in Murmansk (Murmansk airport is the only known exception to this otherwise infallible rule), and architects have on the whole tried to reflect this in their designs.""Perhaps it would save time if he went back to get his car, but then again it was only a short distance, and he had a tremendous propensity for getting lost when driving.
It's true, this plot wanders and is flimsy at times, but Adams always makes up for it with clever insights and hilarious jokes.
Minor events mushroom at the end to unexpected relevance, a very bold literary move that would be a sign of laziness if these moves didn't work and we didn't recognize Adams' competence as a writer from the execution of his humor throughout.
Fantasy readers and Adams' fans will have an easier time with some of the leaps in logic (such as what happens to a god when nobody believes in it), and most readers shouldn't expect a hardline plot after the first hundred pages of inaction and wild action.
I have yet to see or hear a coherent explanation why American Gods breaks records, whereas this gem, which even Gaiman himself I think would agree is in quite a higher league, never did make a splash. Just because it's not set in America? That would be pathetic.
A hot potato, a new fridge - hand delivered from the black market - and a severed head on a record player. Dirk Gently is on a new assignment, or so it seems.Is it really possible that a blast in Heathrow T2 is an "Act of God" or is it just a neat and come-in-handy clause in the insurance policy?Is it true that you cant get a pack of cigarettes after sunset anywhere in London and St Pancras Station resembles Valhalla? Have the old Norse Gods sold out, or been caught in a hostile takeover? And as
A hot potato, a new fridge - hand delivered from the black market - and a severed head on a record player.
Dirk Gently is on a new assignment, or so it seems.Is it really possible that a blast in Heathrow T2 is an "Act of God" or is it just a neat and come-in-handy clause in the insurance policy?Is it true that you can´t get a pack of cigarettes after sunset anywhere in London and St Pancras Station resembles Valhalla?
Have the old Norse Gods sold out, or been caught in a hostile takeover?
Adams addiction to mocking the every day mundane and inane just really tickles me.
Like, every single time, I'm laughing at simple irreverence.
I feel like Adams was the type of man that you really wanted to avoid slightly annoying because you would end up in one of his books, in a section about bistro math, or how no culture has the term "pretty as an airport."LDTTS is a quick read, its hilarious, its probably the light-hearted thing that you are looking for that you dont even know you want.Also, Britain, do you seriously not get pizza delivered?
I mean, really?
If this title does not speak to you, then perhaps this book is not for you. I loved it.
It’s a highly amusing vignette, and one which Adams has the genius to turn into a major plot point.Having now re-read the whole canon, I think I’m qualified to examine Dirk Gently as a detective – and I find he actually has a great deal in common with Sherlock Holmes.
Unfortunately though, there isn’t a John Watson equivalent on the scene to recount episode after episode of this great man’s adventures, but then Gently may be an even more infuriating person to hang around with than his Baker Street colleague.Indeed this tale opens with Gently’s secretary, having finally abandoned him, working at the check-in at Heathrow Terminal Two. When a passenger can’t board a plane the check-in desk shoots suddenly, and inexplicably, hundreds of feet into the air.
The set up was pure Adams' British humor.
Ridiculousness for ridiculousness' sake, but then when we get to a point where things must be explained it just falls apart.It seems the Dirk books are about seemingly unconnected narrative threads eventually meeting up and becoming connected, but that didn't happen here.
Adams attempt to pull the threads together simply caused more confusion for me and the novel felt very unfinished.
I think there are parts of this book that could be read alone as an example of Adams' genius, but the novel, taken as a whole, was not successful.
Şahane bir kitap okudum, ŞA-HA-NE!...Milenyum Üçlemesinde Stieg Larsson Lisbeth Salander'ın Cebelitarık'ı sevdiğini söyler ve bir kayadan bahseder. Üçlemenin getirdiği her şey için belki sırtını dayayıp dinleyebileceği bir yerdir bu kaya... Adams ile çay saatim bitince istedim ki göklerin tanrısı Thor tıpkı Kate'e yaptığının aynısını yani "bir çiçek demetini kaldırır gibi" beni de kaldırsın ve taaa buralardan tam da bu kayanın dibine bıraksın. Tanrı değil mi yanıma hiç bitmeyen soğuk siyah bira ve belki biraz tuzlu fıstık ile birlikte kitaplarımı da versin. Olsun bu böyle olsun!
Che non ci sia nemmeno un pizzico di buon senso (ma fantasia, comicità e orrore strisciante) risulta chiaro già dalla copertina (grazie Publishers Weekly), ma comunque non è abbastanza per preparare il lettore all'assurda possanza del delirio che attende tra le pagine.
Memorabili i personaggi, tra cui uesto Dirk Gently, che oltre ad essere a mani basse il vincitore del premio per l'investigatore più strampalato ed inutile della storia della letteratura (l'ho già detto riguardo al libro precedente, vero?), riesce ad essere anche più assurdo e inadatto del suo omonimo della serie TV, il che è tutto dire.Peccato che alla fine, la generosa dose di assenza di senso si sia ritorta contro Adams stesso ed ha tolto qualsiasi parvenza di possibilità per un'interpretazione semi-seria che si potesse fare sul finale o sul caso in se.
Dirk Gently is still not on the level of Hitch-hiker's Guide, obviously, but this sequel is a better read than the first. Easier to follow, and very funny, the story is intriguing. I do wonder though, with the irreverent Norse gods hanging around, did this or American Gods come out first?
I loved it.16 September, 2012Tash talked me into watching Thor, which I enjoyed enormously.
And it reminded me of Adams' Thor, committing an Act of (a) God, when he can't catch a flight to Oslo.
More than thirty years later air travel has only become more annoying.It's still fantastically funny, but I'm aware of a sadness to it that I didn't notice on previous readings.
Adams has trouble with plot, so even after reading this at least three times, I'm not exactly clear on what happened at the climax.
This time I'm amazed by all the threads connecting it to newer works and authors I enjoy.
I think it intentionally took a more serious tone, which I might have appreciated better if I’d been more interested in the story.The first book had a mixture of elements from both science fiction and fantasy, but I thought it leaned more toward science fiction.
This book, on the other hand, was purely in the fantasy category with Norse gods playing a large role in the story.
This book was published first, so maybe I would feel differently if I had read it first, but I preferred American Gods.I’m not really sure why this one didn’t work as well for me as Dirk Gently did but, by the end, I was happy to be done with it.
I'm not sure whether this is the effect of not being jammed into half a train seat by someone twice the size of me, but The Long Dark Tea-time of the Soul seemed less funny but more absorbing than the first book.
It helped that it included Norse gods, I think.
I had no idea that Douglas Adams had tangled with them.On the other hand, I don't really think that as much seemed to happen, somehow.
I think that was a good thing for the narrative, but it seemed to make the second book different in tone from the first...
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I will re-read or re-listen to it at least once a year and even though I know the story backwards and forwards, it never fails to entertain me.
It's come time to revise my review of this book, because I re-read it recently, and yes, i had a pretty good time with it, but still, I have to report one of those sad moments that sometimes happen in life, when you try something you thought was great in childhood and find yourself kind of crushed to discover it's not really as fine as you remembered.Essentially, my perspective on the two Gently novels has completely reversed since I first read them as a twelve-year-old (or whatever it was).
Douglas Adams's best work, hands down.So last year I read all of The Hitchhiker's Guide books and loved them, though by the last one you could tell Adams didn't want to write them anymore.
I adored Adams's humor and style, so I was excited to read the two Dirk Gently books.
Dirk is still a jerk, of course, but a lot more sympathetic than in the last book, and I loved seeing his methods and the way he approached things.Honestly the only complaint is that the ending is a bit rushed.
[Short review from memory until I re-read at a later date](Memories of this is that it was extremely funny and very enjoyable. I can't imagine why I only gave it three stars, but there must have been a reason. In my head Dirk will always look like Stephen Mangan now.)
How do you describe Adams' Dirk Gently books?
I have a hard time not because they can't be genre-classified but because they don't fit any novel form out there.
Is Gently the main character?
Who is the main character?
There's one thing going on, though--Adams does a lot of describing.
Plot?
We don't need no stinking plot!
That's not why you read an Adams novel anyway.
So just let Adams mess with your mind.
But if you aren't acquainted with his work, read the first two novels in the Hitchhiker's Guide series first, then come in for a landing on the first Dirk Gently novel.
Continuing in my Douglas Adams re-read, I checked out Long Dark Tea Time of the Soul from the library, as I seem to have misplaced my copy.
An explosion, deemed an "act of God" confounds her plans.
She becomes involved in the events around whom the god involved in the aforementioned act are developing.
Long Dark Tea Time of the Soul is, I believe, a better written book than its predecessor, Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency - Adams seems to have a better grip on where he wants to go with the story.
