https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320233.Pomes_Penyeach_and_Other_Verses
James Joyce was first and foremost a Singer, trained in the art of Singing so anyone that can read Pomes Penyeach or Chamber Music and call the Poems "Forgettable" is either tone deaf, has a completely tin ear, no sense of rhythm at all and knows almost nothing about words or simply doesn't like Lyrical Poetry or from a Snob's standpoint views it as too simplistic or failing that is a product of a later, looser, much less interesting (to me) type of Poetry.
In Ireland before the British and European Models took over the Curse Poem, Answer or Damning Poem was a vital part of the fabric of Irish Society stretching back to the Patronage of Kings.
Cuando Joyce publicó este poemario el precio de venta era doce peniques. Doce peniques por doce poemas, a penique la composición. Si se hubiesen vendido por separado, yo sólo hubiese pagado cinco. Volveré a probar con 'Chamber Music'
Who knew that James Joyce was also a good poet?These poems are fully of irony, wit, dark beauty and tongue-in-cheek humour. Loved it.
4.5
Like Chamber Music, this collection of poems is extremely short (as a matter of fact, it's even shorter!), and, also like Chamber Music, the poems have a musical rhyme and rhythm about them, reflecting beautifully Joyce's earlier days as a singer (so, feel free to dance and sing along with some of these brief goodies if you can).
However, unlike Chamber Music, this collection focuses on many different moods and styles despite its excruciatingly short length.
Sometimes straightforward and simplistic, other times breathtakingly experimental, this collection serves as a lovely reminder of Joyce's talent as a poet as well as a novelist.
I was astonished at the difference between Joyce in prose and Joyce the poet. In less than thirteen poems he ranges from romantic to almost preraphaelite, to modernist again, revealing the human Joyce, beyond his literary status and his erudition. In this poems he begun to show his protean talent with the language, but with himself and not Dublin and its dwellers. Why 4 stars? I wanted more!
tbh this is only for the hardcore Joyce fans.
Seems like a bargain to me.
Most of the poems contained herein are short pieces which lag very far behind in the high standards Joyce set himself as a prose writer.
the third poem in the collection, for instance, 'A Flower Given to my Daughter' contains some glaring technical errors (ending the opening line with the word "are" chief among them).
No other poem in the collection comes close to the dizzying heights achieved by it.
The judgement then must be that there are a handful of noteworthy, and even one or two exemplary poems, but the collection falls far short of the standard Joyce set himself in his prose writings.
That Joyce would have written and published formal poetry seems out of keeping with his image of the writer of chaotic language, but the poems he wrote in the early 20th century are in the language of the time... moderated by his rich words.Wind whines and whines the shingle,The crazy pierstakes groan;A senile sea numbers each singleSlimesilvered stone.His poetry is often repetitive, but occasionally rich and memorable. Another of his slim volumes, "Chamber Music", is arguably more interesting than "Pomes Penyeach".
i can't decide between 3 or 4 stars...it's joyce so obviously the language waves the scalpel of a giddy hand - 'leave greasy lips their kissing' and 'night's sindark nave' indeed - but it has this problem that i've noticed in the volumes of a few modernist/descriptive novelists in that his poems just don't feel like poems to me; they lack the irrationale of a poetry that uses words to explore wordlesness, so visions slide off a cliff rather than take you with them. and i hate to say it but it's even a bit corny in places.
I never expected I would like James Joyce this much. Based on what I heard about his novels, I anticipated huge formal experiments (though I didn't find any exceedingly gigantic ones) and strange syntactic constructions. The negligence of those anticipations threw me off guard, and the lyrical descriptions and observations sneaked up on me the way I like to be sneaked up on (by poetry, that is). For those who like poetry: try it!
"James Joyce was an innovative novelist but could never get poetry" is a tired, tidy story that's always told about him, but I was pleasantly surprised by these. Chamber Music is pretty dire, though.
Frankly, this was godawful. Only James Joyce freaks will have any interest, and they'll be dismayed. Go read "Oxen of the Sun" a fiftieth time and don't bother plunking down the $20 to score a beat-up copy of the one edition available to mortal men.
Joyce seems more interested in the way words come together than the content - there's pleasure to be had in reading this aloud, but the content did not move me. Included in my edition were two satirical poems of his that were also quite funny in their takedowns of Irish writers and publishers.
One of history's best writers, the man who gave us Ulysses, also gave us--this. The only poem worth anything is "Alone" and even that's a stretch, so approach this only if Joyce poetry intrigues you and you have fifteen minutes to spare.
Obviously not his best work. ;)
Mucho mejor que Chamber Music.
Pretty but monotonous and, except for one poem which is only a marginal exception, almost instantly forgettable.
Nothing of too much interest here, almost instantly forgettable.
The sly reeds whisper to the night a name-- her name- And all my soul is a delight, A swoon of shame
well, i didn't really get what was going on here. very awkward phrasing, uninteresting topics, etc.
James Joyce can be funny!
