https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/483433.Emily_Dickinson_Everyman_s_Poetry
"Parting is all we know of heaven, and all we need of hell". A few good quotes but mostly mediocre. I found there to be too many poems about God and religion.
3.5 starsI'm pleased that I read this edition.
At last, I have a bit of an understanding of Emily Dickinson's poetry.
This edition has a very clear introduction, which puts her into context.
It also explains a bit about why capital letters and dashes, including sometimes using a – at the end of a poem, are used by her in her poetry.
My favourite poem of all is number 511.
Extra things that I've learned are how much Dickinson admired George Eliot and Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and also where various book titles used by other people have come from i.e. her poems.
The selected poems are somewhat like proverbs, applicable to whatever life circumstance any person could encounter.
I won't go into any specifics with her actual poems, that's up to the interpretation of future readers.
I do have a couple thoughts on broader topics:As for form, Dickinson's use of tetrameter could be viewed as less than novel.
Although they are good- popular for a reason- but so often the widely undiscovered material is often the most provocative.*edit* Oh and also I've always liked how Dickinson numbers her poems in lieu of titles.
Titles can add a creative aspect, but often I've found they can also take away from the actual poem.
My life closed twice before its close - It yet remains to seeIf Immortality unveilA third event to meSo huge, so hopeless to conceiveAs these twice befell.Parting is all we know of heaven,And all we need of hell.
A few poems every day for a month guarantees some happiness, some wisdom and an extra portion of self-awareness. These poems are wonderful things.
Quick read! It's easy and simple so if you don't like poetry but still need to read it I would recommend picking this up!
Dickinson's poems can be read over and over without dampening any of their spirit.
I've decided I don't like Emily Dickenson
I recently came to Emily Dickinson via a love of Thoreau and an intention, now several years old, to read some more of the Transcendentalists.
Many of her poems are only a few words long, and the power she packs into so few words in incredible.This is a poet, like the great Japanese monk Ryokan, whose work I can read and reread one fragment of, and that's enough.
Just like with my favourite works by Ryokan, I'll be savouring this book, returning to it regularly for snippets of insight, for years.
A good introduction to Emily Dickinson's work, whilst I had read the odd poem here and there, this is the first time I focused on her work.
Do they only add the book so their reading list looks a bit more academic?
Anyway, this edition is a good intro and has a good biblo at the back for further reading.I died for beauty but was scarceAdjusted in the tomb,When one who died for truth was lainIn an adjoining room.He questioned softly why I failed?"For beauty," I replied."And I for truth, the two are one;We brethren are," he said.And so, as kinsmen met a night,We talked between the rooms,Until the moss had reached our lips,And covered up our names.
I finally finished this book.Poetry isn't my thing.
So, if you like poetry, maybe you will like this selection of poems by Emily Dickinson.
I read it because I had to, hoping that maybe I would enjoy it.
Saying that I didn't like any of the poems would be lying : some of them I found really good and interesting.
Quite a few poems end on a dash, and most of the time it gave the impression of something unfinished, that something was missing (for some of them, I liked it but they were exceptions).
At the end, I think poetry is just not for me.
Before this collection the only poem I had read of Emily Dickinson's was Wild Nights - Wild Nights!
It was a good start.
She was a prolific writer who famously did not title her poems but gave them numbers (Wild Nights is 249) She wrote 1,775 poem of which only about one percent were published in her lifetime.
Although the poems were written in 1850-60's America, they are fresh, modern and given the time they were written very brave.
There is a very pragmatic feel to her work and yet it is often very tender and sincere.
Lately I've started to take interest in more classic works, and even though that still doesn't make me a poetry person, I really loved reading this collection. I admit that, for me, most of these poems were hard to understand at first, either because of unfamiliar words or because I'm generally not the smartest person when it comes to reading between the lines. Nevertheless, I can relate to many of Dickinson's poems, and I just love how they express their themes and ideas in such a beautiful way.
Favourites:Blazing in Gold and quenching in Purple"Hope" is the thing with feathers - A solemn thing - it was - I saidHe fumbles at your SoulAfter great pain, a formal feeling comes -This World is not Conclusion.I would not paint - a picture -A Bird, came down the Walk -The Soul has Bandaged moments - I started Early - Took my Dog - To fill a GapEmpty my Heart, of Thee - I dwell in Possibility -One need not be a Chamber - to be Haunted -
I love the mix of poetry here. I find it annoying that people write reviews when they hate poetry, why read a poetry book then? Emily Dickinson has pure talent and her words engrave themselves upon me. She makes me stop and think and then very quickly agree with her on many topics.
Struggled with these poems. Maybe I wasn't in the right mood when I read it. Saying that, there was a poem in there (can't remember the name) where she talked about 'the letting go' (death) which made me stop and stare into space for a moment. Always a good sign.
I absolutely love Emily Dickinson, however I feel this selection of poetry doesn't fully show her versatility or skill. A lot of my favourites weren't here. Still, an alright introduction to Emily's works.
19th Century North American Writing
326, 640 and 1732 are my favourites.
Simple read
Reading poetry before bedtime is so relaxing. Emily is the best.
Futile - the Winds - To a Heart in port - Done with the Compass - Done with the Chart!
Uni reading. Actually quite enjoyed this.
She is a favourite poet who reminds me a little of short poem Blake. Copland made beautiful settings of some of her poems.
