https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23315589-der-alpdruck
Deprivation is not merely physical; the adaptation of one’s mind to a new reality is necessary: “in letting go of the lies that had been drip-fed to them all their lives as the most profound truth and wisdom, they would be stripped of their inner resources of love and hate, memory, self-esteem, and dignity.” The true cost of belief is only evident after the belief is realized fully for what it is: profound self-deception.
The fact that he was able to write at all in the midst of the chaos and despair at a time when even in his own mind “‘German’ had become a term of abuse throughout the world,” is remarkable.
Like his protagonist Doll, Fallada was appointed mayor of a small country town by the Russians in the wake of Germany’s defeat in World War II; he married a woman much younger than him; the two became morphine addicts, checking in and out of Berlin sanatoriums (drug rehab clinics); he tried to become a successful writer again.
Fallada writes some really vivid characters in this book but conversely when Doll and Alma’s children are mentioned they’re complete nonentities – so why mention them at all?
Released in Germany in 1947 as “Der Alpdruck” (The Nightmare) by Rudolf Ditzen, better known as Hans Fallada, the novel shifts between moods of despair of the German people and hope.
His sense of shame had stalked him his entire life and his wounded patriotism is reflecting with real despair in this novel he described as a ‘medical report’; meaning the state the German people faced with evils perpetrated under the Nazis.
And although praised for his work, I am not sure if Falladas’ fictional account and his own experiences can translate directly to the entire nation.
Nightmare in Berlin was Fallada's penultimate novel (Alone in Berlin was his last) and it's the best book that I've read about Germany in the immediate aftermath of her defeat in the spring of 1945.
The author also examines the place of Germany in the post-war world, recognising that defeat has made the Third Reich the pariah of the planet, hated and despised by all.As with Alone in Berlin, Fallada adopts simple prose which has been most expertly translated.
https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...
I was delighted when 'Nightmare in Berlin' was chosen by my book group for us to read and discuss in July 2018.Like many readers, I discovered Hans Fallada around 2009, when his 1947 novel, 'Alone in Berlin' (US title: Every Man Dies Alone) was reissued in English.
All Germans must bear the guilt of the Nazi era.
Apparently Hans Fallada had to get 'Nightmare in Berlin' out of his system before writing the masterly 'Alone in Berlin'.
'Nightmare in Berlin' is not the most obvious starting point for anyone new to Hans Fallada however it is still well worth reading.
Knowing that Fallada died in 1947, not long after the publication of the novel, the struggles that he goes through in the book are poignant, and while the book finishes on a slightly upbeat note, wit hindsight one realises that things obviously didn't improve.Not one to be read on a whim, or by someone wanting an introduction to Fallada, but an interesting insight to both post war Berlin and the author's personal demons and insecurities.
What a strange book. I kept having to remind myself that Fallada was writing about a time and situation that he knew well. At times it seemed so unrealistic to me.There was much more about Doll and his wife, and their ailments and various medications etc, than I was interested in. I had expected there to be much more concentration on life in Germany immediately postwar.I definitely felt it was describing a nightmare.
That book was written right after the war, though he had been famous in Germany for his work begin in the 1920's.
He died from bad health, exacerbated by a morphine habit, in 1947 at the age of 53.The readers of Fallada's work need to know a bit about the author's life because, like many writers, he includes his own life experiences in his novels.
This is particularly true in "Nightmare in Berlin", written in the last year of his life.
Both are morphine addicts and have gone to live in the village during the war, leaving their apartment in Berlin for the safety of a country village.
A couple living in rural Germany at the end of WWII get caught up in the dysfunctional society left after the Russians have taken control.The crazy world of a defeated country is well conveyed, as is the selfishness of people who survive by cheating their fellow countrymen.After reading the notes on the author’s life at the end of the book, it appears to be largely an autobiographical account.
In this splendid novel, Fallada portrays the despondency and apathy of the German people in this strange period. The last months of the war are described with masterly skill, as well as the subsequent capitulation, the arrival of the Russian troops, the way in which the middle class, the “bourgeoisie” must adapt to this new environment, and the moral decline of the population. Zwiebelfisch It’s easy to see why Graham Greene — no small master of moral thrillers himself — so admired this writer.Ca
Nightmare in Berlin represents a crucial moment in Fallada’s realisation that it is not the ruins, but human lives that count.
It is rich in internal stories … bold, strident, ironic and often ambivalent fiction.Eileen Battersby, The Irish Times[Nightmare in Berlin] begins in gripping style and is fascinating on the mentality of a population brought to its knees.Anthony Gardner, The Mail on Sunday[Nightmare in Berlin] evokes the apathy and despair of postwar Germany with chilling resonance and the author’s trademark humanity.Eileen Battersby, The Irish TimesRecords in powerful detail the reality of life for Germans living in a defeated and occupied country.
Fallada describes Berlin as an almost post-apocalyptic city dominated by death, drugs, apathy, and the almost blackly comic pettiness of the human survival instinct.
Now at last comes the first English translation of Nightmare in Berlin written at a time of real struggle personally for Fallada whose real name is Rudolf Ditzen.
Here we trace the life of Doctor Doll the Russians have now just defeated the Nazis and the sheer disaster and chaos that has left Germany a country in total ruins.
Life becomes incredibly difficult for Dr Doll and Alma and they soon become aware that there is very little they can do so they set off back to their home of Berlin a city totally in ruins.
This is autobiographical fiction - with many of Dr Doll's experiences directly echoing Fallada's own (including his and his young wife's morphine addiction, his brief term as a Red Army installed mayor of a provincial town, his return to a devastated and occupied Berlin).So there isn't the sense of jeopardy or menace that the other book so brilliantly evokes.
The only times when emotions were roused beyond the dull ache of despair seem to be when mayor Doll is pursuing those that he knew profited from and cheated under the Nazis, or when he is back in Berlin trying to reclaim his their apartment from recalcitrant bureaucrats.This makes the book all the more real and convincing.
Dit boek is het fragmentarisch verslag van zijn pogingen om uit een emotionele bomkrater te kruipen.
De bommen op Berlijn betekenden geen tabula rasa, maar het begin van een nieuwe waanzin.
Dus verzwijgt hij de verkrachting van zijn vrouw door Russische troepen en breit hij er toch maar een optimistisch einde aan.
Een waanzinnig begin kan niet verbergen dat aan Hans Fallada een prachtschrijver verloren gegaan is.
Ronduit meesterlijk is het begin van het einde waarin de schrijver terug aan zijn schrijftafel zit, maar zich ergert aan een lelijk, kitscherig kussentje dat de oorlog overleefd heeft, terwijl zoveel moois onherroepelijk verloren is gegaan.
But we don’t even have a kitchen with a gas stove any more.This is a novel but if you know anything about Hans Fallada then it's hard to escape the similarities to his life and experiences as a writer, drug addict and survivor of the catastrophe Hitler's Reich brought upon Germany and the German people.
Or people in other countries, who hate us?’(view spoiler)[Fallada died before the book was published, yet he allows a more positive outcome for his fictional alter ego Dr Doll, though there's an air of unreality about it all which made me wonder if it's a drug induced dream, in the sanatorium.
A closely autobiographical story of author’s struggle after defeat of Hitler’s regime and his attempts to re-establish himself in ruined Berlin.
Despite all the gloom, Fallada’s strong prose makes for interested reading.The hero Doctor Doll is, like Fallada, made mayor of a small town, Prenzlau, by the Russians, and finds himself confronting whingeing ex-party members.
He and his wife go back to Berlin in autumn 1945, where they find their former flat occupied, to deal with bureaucracy, to overcome terrible ill-health using a broken-down medical service and finally to establish themselves in some kind of security.
Definitely an interesting book. I had recently finished https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147326.The_Good_German, which is also set in Berlin in the same time frame. Both books deal with the 'ordinary' German, who while not active in the Nazi movement, did nothing despite really knowing what was happening.This book reminded me how easy it can be to numb out reality.
I don't really know what to say about this book. Uncomfortable reading but an interesting insight into the headspace of Germans (or some Germans anyway) after the defeat of WWII. A portrait of the psychology of despair?
Wow. Wow! I want to come back and write a thoughtful review, but this book was incredible. So much to think about! And tons of new questions raised.
So ist mit dem vorliegenden ALPDRUCK eines der raren Werke zu entdecken, die relativ ungeschminkt und recht ungeschönt und sehr direkt, auch zeitlich nah, davon erzählen, wie man die ersten vorsichtigen Schritte hinein in das neue Leben tat.Hans Fallada, der sich schon anfangs der 30er Jahre enormer Popularität erfreute, nachdem sein Roman KLEINER MANN - WAS NUN?
zum Bestseller avanciert war und auch international Anerkennung fand, fasste auf den knapp 270 Seiten fast autobiographisch ein Jahr zusammen, das die letzten Kämpfe um Berlin erlebt, den Einmarsch der Roten Armee, Hunger und das, was er aus Menschen macht, Niedertracht und doch auch erste Versuche, wieder in ein Zivilleben zurückzufinden, das es in Deutschland so ja schon lange vor dem Krieg nicht mehr wirklich gegeben hatte.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[As he was thinking these thoughts, the man in the shabby, crumpled, stained clothes under the pale summer coat, which was not exactly in pristine condition itself, walked past quite a few pubs, where — as he very well knew — cigarettes could be bought on the black market.
Nightmare in Berlin by Hans Fallada is an amazing look at the circumstances of Germans right after World War II.
At the end of the war, he lives with his wife and her child and her mother in a small town, having abandoned his apartment in Berlin.
He and his wife are not welcome in the town, but tolerated since their behavior is hard to predict.
This town must be in what becomes East German, as the Russians make him mayor and he has to cope with the needs of the people.
Yet, he encounters people who are not linked to the hard that their own nation has done.
This autobiographical novel, written right after the author's life in Nazi Germany during WWII, is not as good as his great work (Little Man What Now?, Every Man Dies Alone, The Drinker) but it's still really good.
Verstecken sich alle anderen vor den Soldaten, gehen Doll und seine Frau fröhlich auf sie zu.
Schwer nur können sie sich aus der Schockstarre lösen und wieder aktiv ins Leben zurückkehren.Für mich war dies der erste Roman Hans Falladas und ich bin nachhaltig von ihm beeindruckt.
Wie langsam die Deutschen aus der Depression herausfinden und ihr Vaterland wieder herrichten, müssen auch die Dolls erst ihr neues Leben annehmen und mit frischen Mut Rückschläge wegstecken, um sich eine Zukunft zu schaffen.Für mich in seiner Symbolkraft einer der stärksten Romane seiner Zeit.
Mit informativem Vor- und Nachwort, um das Werk angemessen einzubetten und den Leser bei der Lektüre zu begleiten.
Mitten im zerstörten Berlin stehen sie wie tausend Andere auch vor dem Nichts...Es ist die Geschichte Hans Falladas, und die Aussage des Vorwortes, das Buch sei autobiographisch inspiriert, halte ich persönlich für stark untertrieben.
Doll/Fallada krankt an den Verbrechen die das deutsche Volk verübte ebenso wie an dem stillen Mitläufertum, das das Alles erst ermöglichte und wozu er sich auch selber zählt.
Diese Einseitigkeit des Protagonisten, egal in welche Richtung, ist vermutlich der Krankheit Dolls/Falladas zuzuschreiben, der zeit seines Lebens an Depressionen litt, was es mir aber schwermachte, mich mit Doll als Romanhelden anzufreunden.
A note on Fallada's later novel 'Alone in Berlin' first: a great read and arguably an important book, it dramatises the horror of the Nazi regime from the perspective of ordinary Germans.
But 'Alone in Berlin' still illustrates how like George Orwell's '1984' Germany became internally between 1933 and 1945.
(I would not be at all surprised to learn that Orwell had read 'Alone in Berlin'.)The largely autobiographical 'Nightmare in Berlin' moves on from May 1945, to illustrate what life was like in an utterly defeated post-war Germany.
This book has only recently become available in English and was actually written at the end of second world war.
Dr Doll is living in a small farming community when the Russians arrive to 'liberate' Germany and soon finds that life is no easier than it was during the war itself.
Having read and loved Alone in Berlin I felt the need to read this book but unless you have a specific reason to seek it out e.g. an interest in post war Germany or the author himself, I'm not sure many would actually 'enjoy' it.
“Life goes on, always, even beneath the ruins. The ruins are of no account; what counts is life—the life in a blade of grass in the middle of the city, in amongst a thousand lumps of shattered masonry. Life goes on, always.”
Nightmare in Berlin is the fifth book I’ve read by the German author Hans Fallada, (1893-1947) but it was when I read the first one that I wondered if Fallada had any optimism about the future of post-war Germany.
The ‘baptism’ of the street-thug Kuno, his rejection of his unrepentant father and his adoption by the symbolically named Eva is a clear indication of Fellada’s hopes for a humane post-Nazi Germany.Nightmare in Berlin is the novel that Fallada had to write before he could write the more hopeful Alone in Berlin(/I>.
With them out of hospital, they decide to return to reclaim their apartment in Berlin though also finding hospital place in Berlin for both him and his wife also plays on their mind as a way for both to feed their morphine addictions.What I felt had started off as promising read started to drag mid way through it.
A little dissappointing of a read for me as I found a bit of it dragged.
I think part of it is in the start of the novel, Mr and Mrs Doll come across as being feisty characters and then little later, when back in Berlin
