https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159828.Mary_Queen_of_France
This book is about Mary Tudor, youngest sister of King Henry viii.
It was interesting to see how in a time when princess and princesses were married for political purposes, Mary has the courage to defy even her own brother to keep his promise.
It is known that he had promised her that if she married King Louis from France - who was 30 years older than her- and widowed she’d marry whom she wanted afterwards.
The author also takes us onto the life of King Louis’ successor Francois and the big influence his mother and sister had over him.I have to address the fact that this cover is quite misleading.
I felt that part of the story could have been omitted and more time devoted to Mary's time in the French Court and her time after returning to England...a lot of things seemed to be just skimmed over.
The other Plaidy novels I have read seemed to have been more devoted to the title character and better executed.
This book did make me wonder more about Charles Brandon...in other works I've read he's been portrayed as the rake who was happy to be with whomever he was with in the moment, but Plaidy paints him as a devoted suitor and husband to Mary and a devoted father.
3.75 starsMary Tudor was Henry VIII’s younger sister.
She was originally betrothed to Charles of Castile when they were both young (Charles much younger than Mary).
She thought she was free when the betrothal was broken, but, even worse, she was instead promised to Louis XII of France, an old man.
She fought for a chance to wed Brandon instead, though she was still required to go to France and marry Louis.
There were a couple of dryer parts, most notably the history of the succession in France.
That was only a brief part in the middle, though, just to introduce Louis and his court and rival for the throne.
This is my first Jean Plaidy novel, and while i plan to read more, I am a little disappointed in the story telling in this particular novel.
Perhaps it is because this has been written before my generation (( am 24 and an avid historical fiction reader), but i found the writing a little bland.
"Mary falls in love, Mary gets married away from lover to King of France, Mary marries her real love after King dies." I just wanted more drama.
I understand that this isn't a Danielle Steel novel but I just wanted more juiciness.
This is my first Jean Plaidy book and I liked it very much. I'm a fan of historical fiction, especially royal histories. Princess Mary Tudor was the younger sister of Henry VIII, one of the lesser known characters of the Tudor dynasty. Jean Plaidy made her story interesting and compelling and kept me entertained to the end. It seemed a very quick read indeed and I look forward to reading more of Jean Plaidy's work.
I enjoyed the first 2/3 of this one but after that it became very sappy.
I'm surprised more HF has not been written about the romance between Mary Tudor (Henry VIII's sister) and Charles Brandon (the Duke of Suffolk, elevated from humble origins because of his friendship with Henry).
It's a compelling story that often gets glossed over.
In this novel, Jean Plaidy does a great job of developing Mary Tudor's character, as well as showing why her marriage to the French king Louis was such a big deal (hence, the entire section that focused on the French court and Francois I's childhood).
I first read this several years ago and have read it multiple times since.
I wish Charles Brandon's first two marriages and his entire personality were explained more.
I wish more was done with Mary's fear of Henry, and her non-fear of the French royal family.
I never felt like I got in the character's heads.
It was more of a historical re-telling of the facts.As I was reading, this story seemed like it could have been so epic.
If Mary was as power-hungry as the rest of the royal families (both England and France), she could have changed the world; produced an heir for France, etc.
This is an interesting novel that focuses on a mainly forgotten figure Mary, Henry VIII's younger sister.
I like the idea that you get to see an older Margret Beaufant and Henry VII.
It also shows a rare vision of a younger Henry VIII, when he was the young vibrant prince.
There is some nice forshadowing, including seeing a young Anne Boleyn.The writing style takes some getting into, but is good once you are used to it.
The novel also veers away from the original story line in order to introduce one of the characters and give him a backstory.
This is, I think, a less rich take on these people than what I've read previously. I did like the look into the context of France but I'm less sure about the tendency to write particularly women in this period as practically obsessive over one person most of their lives, whether that's love interest or son. Maybe it's accurate, I don't know, but especially when it's a love interest it rings false to me, maybe not when one or two do it, but on a large scale? I don't know. Anyway, I'd have liked more nuance in all the characters.
I liked the book but I felt the chapters were a little long.I was a bit confused when it went into the background of the young king of france, Francois.I don't think I realized until half way into the chapterthat they were speaking of the Dauphin not the current king.But those were my only issues.I think I have become more interested in Mary Tudor than I was before reading itand the book just made me want to find out more about her relationship with Charles Brandon and her brother Henry VIII.
Great ReadA wonderfully written historical novel. I am very pleased with it. Great love story. Highly recommend. Caught me by surprise Mary is not one of my favorite Tudors but felt obligated to leave review.....I felt book was THAT good!
This book took awhile to sink into because Plaidy jumps between POVs without any warning.
Once I figured this out, it wasn't so bad.Aside from the narration style, this was pretty average.
The story was fascinating, and Mary really grew as a character, as did the other characters around her, but half the book was taken up by the Dauphin Mary almost displaced as the next King of France.
While it was interesting, it wasn't needed, not at the expense of fleshing out Mary's character more.
But we do know about the bitter rival between the Dauphin's mother and Anne of Brittany.
Loved this book and is one of my favorites of the series.
Told the story of Princess Mary (soon to briefly be Queen of France) the younger sister of Henry VIII.
Mary fell in love with Henry's best friend Charles Brandon when she was a young girl but Henry had plans to wed her to the very aged Louis, King of France.
Mary's relationship with the Dauphin of France, King Louis, the Dauphin's sister and mother are very engaging and at times very humorous.
Again, like the previous book it goes at a great pace and then just rushes at the end.
This was my first Jean Plaidy book and my last.
The plot is interesting: Henry VIII's headstrong younger sister, Mary, falls in love with Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk and although she marries the aging King of France, her heart remains with her love.
The research is magnificent - perhaps too much so.
I got tired of her beautiful locks of hair and minute descriptions of her garments.
The words "gay" and "gaiety", constantly repeated, reminded me that this book was written decades ago.
Overall, I struggled with this book, often jumping over whole pages, and was glad when it ended.
What is there to say ?I have read and reread novels by this author under all three of her pen names . I can only express praise for the enjoyment she has invariably given though her splendid writing.Her novels are recognised classics in their class , so what more is there to say.about Mary Queen of France ? Certainly another five star , worthy member of the extensive library from her pen.
Considering how much I think I "already know" about the Tudors it seems I'd almost forgotten the sisters of Henry VIII and their place in history. Always quite interesting to read this sort of novel and think about what may or may not have really been said/felt... Enjoyable read :)
The start is nice but there is very little about her later years. The book skips large periods of time. Granted Mary was not exactly at court a lot so historical records are scant I suppose. So not bad considering the lack of primary resources available.
As usual, Plaidy excels at the fiction biography of another English Royal. Not her best but thoroughly with a rad and the tantalizing wait of Mary's ability to be with whom she loves mixed with her adorable wit was a super enjoyable read.
slow book and didnt get al the way through. Slow book and many uninteresting/ not needed parts.
Mary, Queen of France is the story of Mary Tudor, Henry VIII's youngest sister, who was forced to marry Louis XII of France and then risked everything marrying for love Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk.I have always been fascinated by Mary and admired her courage, so I greatly enjoyed reading about her.
Henry appears to be already looking for a new husband for her sister, not caring about his promise, so Mary decides to marry Brandon secretly.The long time spent on Francois in this part took me by surprise at first, but I ended up enjoying it.
I enjoyed Plaidy's focus on Mary Tudor's force of will, which guided her life at every step. This was a simple imagining of the life of Mary and her closest friends and relatives, interesting and touching, but perhaps not as intriguing as I was hoping for.
This is fun historical fiction. I love anything having to do with history and royals, so this was right up my alley. I have no idea how accurate it is, but I didn't really care. It's a good read, and I cared about what happened with the characters.
I have read a lot about the Tudors, and have always been curious about Henry VIII's younger sister Mary, who was married off to the elderly King of France for political reasons, was quickly widowed, and then married the man of her own choosing.
In most fiction about the Tudors, she appears as a minor character and this story is only briefly touched on, so I was glad to find that Jean Plaidy dedicated a book to Mary's story.
She does a very good job of explaining the political situation in France that resulted in Mary's marriage to a sick old man.
I picked up this book as an Amazon recommendation when I needed a break from the other book I was reading concurrently, and the synopsis of following King Henry VIII's sister Mary sounded appealing.
The story was well written, with brilliant characterization and description of Mary and several of the supporting characters, and enough detail about clothing and setting to be lush without dragging.
The ending of the story was of necessity more rushed than the central events surrounding Mary's two marriages, but it was not overly so and there were some keen observations of Henry's character throughout the latter third of the novel.
However, it was a relatively quick read and I enjoyed the focus on a Tudor who is not often written about, Henry’s sister Mary.
From her early days at court with her father, her brother’s ascension to the throne, her betrothal to Charles of Castile, her marriage to the aging King of France, through her long-sought marriage to Charles Brandon, Plaidy’s Mary is almost one-dimensional, but it is a good story, nonetheless.
While I wished it was a little more detailed and multifaceted, I still enjoyed the history and I look forward to reading Plaidy’s novel about Henry’s other sister, Margaret in The Thistle and the Rose.
This was good.
Not fantastic, but good.
The book doesn't really come together until half way though.
The first quarter of the book is the story of Mary Tudor, Henry VIII's youngest sister.
Her story stops when she is Married to the King of France, then the book switches to the story of Francois, his mother and sister and his childhood as they wait to see if he will become the next king of France.
At 50% of the way through, Mary meets Francois.
You learn about her brief time as Queen of France, then it is back to England for her - Francois isn't really mentioned again.
The book was well written, the character's well developed, but they were not the 'standard' depictions that we've come to expect of these already famous people in the Tudor umbrella.
I read this book because I wanted to learn more about the relationship between Mary and Charles Brandon.
But, I feel like, walking away from this book, I know quite a bit about Charles Brandon but not that much about Mary.
Perhaps I have to read some non fiction.
But, anyone who picks up this book and its looking for a good Tudor romp this book won't disappoint.
I've been reading a lot of super long historical fiction lately, so it was a relief to read something very short for a change.
I was thinking this was super short, then checked and it has 304 pages still, so you see my mind frame from those really long ones LOL.
Besides the shortness, i wasn't a big fan of this book.
Also, this seemed kind of frivolous, more of a romance than of any historical importance.
I still read it, it wasn't THAT bad that I couldn't read it, but it seemed more chick lit to me, without the fun chick lit way of writing.
I thought this was an excellent book.
I though Jean Plaidy did an excellent job of portraying the frustration and insecurities even a princess must face being shipped off to a strange land with strange people.
The people she takes with her being her comfort.
The book accurately reflects other character traits I've read about for Henry the 8th.
An excellent portrayal.
Even a snippet in the book about the Borgia, which are a fascinating study in themselves.
I'll look for more books by Jean Plaidy.
