https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1389285._
Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai's "Chemmeen" is the first Malayalam novel to win Sahitya Akademi award.
The English version has been translated by Anita Nair and the translation is simple yet beautiful to read.This book had been made into a Malayalam movie by the same name.
The malayalam actress Sheela who portrays the character 'Karuthamma' is seen holding earthen pots on a sea shore.
Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai brings out the simple story in its brief detailing, but manages to enthral readers from all over the world.
Saw the English version of this 'enduring malayalam classic' in a bookshop in Calicut and couldn;t resist buying it then and there.
T S Pillai (or Thakazhi as he is popularly called) is an eminent malayalee author and I have read many of his books in malayalam, but somehow missed this one.
I decided to read the translated version in English and was amused by the quaint translations.
The story deals with the lives of fisherfolk in the coasts of southern kerala- their daily struggle, ambitions, dreams, customs, traditions etc.
The story portrays the lives of ordinary fisherfolk mauled and destroyed by love, tradition, customs, beliefs and superstitions.
As I laid Chemmeen down, I looked around.
Chemmeen grew on me slowly.
I wondered initially at the utter simplicity of the language, but there is a natural cadence and rhythm that TS Pillai must have used in the original Malayalam.
There are many themes that make me feel I would like to explore this book more - themes of feminism, of culture, of the historical and social context of Kerala at the time this novel was written.
It's a book that made me think, and a story that made me cry in my heart.
There is no judgment you can cast on any of the characters - in making them human, TS Pillai has made them ours.
kết thúc có hậu ghê *thở dài*
I enjoyed the story throughout, it was an emotional journey, and we could easily relate to it.It's a Well crafted tale depicting the lives of Fisher folks in Kerala. Story of Mother Sea's sons and daughters; their values and way of life is what makes this story possible. Clash between norms and liberty makes their life happy, miserable and engaging; a life worth to live.
പരീകകുടടിയും കറുതതമമയും പളനിയും ചെമപൻകുഞഞും.എലലാവരുടെയും മനസസിലൂടെ ഒനനു നടതതിചചു തനനു ശരീ തകഴി.
പരീക്കുട്ടിയും കറുത്തമ്മയും പളനിയും ചെമ്പൻകുഞ്ഞും.എല്ലാവരുടെയും മനസ്സിലൂടെ ഒന്നു നടത്തിച്ചു തന്നു ശ്രീ തകഴി.
Họ đứng bên bãi cát, nói chuyện làm ăn vài câu qua lại, rồi hai người đứng cạnh nhau ôm bụng cười, cười như chưa bao giờ được cười.
Đó là cảnh đầu tiên, cũng là cảnh vui duy nhất trong câu chuyện dài phía sau.Từ những trang đầu tiên bạn có thể cảm nhận được một tấn bi kịch đang kéo đến, không sớm thì muộn.
Rồi đến cuối cùng, Nữ Thần Biển là người khép lại câu chuyện theo cách riêng của người.Mình đọc đúng dịp đang buồn buồn khó ở nên thấy cũng hiu hắt theo.
Evokes images in the mind's eye as a good book should.
Grey characters with depth and nuance and a taunt pace ensure this love story is very readable.
Of course, like most malayalees I had heard about the movie much before the book.
Happily, I had not seen it so the book was my introduction to the story and I'm glad it was that way.
If you've not seen it, I'd give the movie a pass or just flit through it in 10 minutes on youtube.
Cinema in 1965 just did not have the means to do justice to the book.
When I started on, I had no intentions of going till the end as I thought it could be just a story of poverty, love, betrayal and all that... and yes, it was that but with a difference, I could not resist turning the pages one after the other and it flowed.. smoothly..The life of fishermen and women, their beliefs, the petty horizon of all of it without much of the outer worldly interventions makes it enjoyable!But what a tragic end for all of it?In short, I enjoyed a great deal!!
by expressing the love of 2..thakazhi expresses the feelings of a dad on his daughter that impressed me..the characters were good especially 'ChembanKunju' and the surroundings of a sea and the language is apt for expressing it...
Không thích cái kết của truyện này
Čo sa pôvodne zdalo, že Červená ryba bude romantickým príbehom v indickej rybárskej dedine, sa zmenilo na kritiku kastovného systému a starých tradicíí. Prečo žena nemôže milovať niekoho z inej kasty a iného náboženstva? Prečo muž musí hlásiť všetko náčelníkovi obce a ešte mu aj platiť za jeho povolenie? Je to naozaj pravda, že manželka musí byť čistá a oddaná, aby sa rybár vôbec vrátil z mora? V tejto knihe sú zobrazené asi všetky tie zákony, ktoré v dnešnej pôsobia nepochopiteľne. Že vôbec tak niekto mohol niekde žiť; od kastovných zákonov až po postavenie ženy v domácnosti a rodine.
"ആടടെ, വളളോം വലേം മേടികകുമപം വളളതതേലൊണടാകുനന മീന ഞങങകകു കചചോടം ചെയയാൻ വലയ മരകാതതി അചഛനോട പറയുമോ ?"കറുതതമമ പറഞഞു "നലല വെല തനനാല മീനതരാം ".....ചെമമീൻ - കടലോരം പാടിനടനന ഒരു ദുരനത പരണയകഥ. കറുതതമമ, പരീകകുടടി, പളനി, ചെമപൻ കുഞഞു, ചകകി അങങനെ ഓർമമയിൽ മായാതെ നിൽകകുനന ഒരുപിടി നലല കഥാപാതരങങൾ
"ആട്ടെ, വള്ളോം വലേം മേടിക്കുമ്പം വള്ളത്തേലൊണ്ടാകുന്ന മീന് ഞങ്ങക്കു കച്ചോടം ചെയ്യാൻ വല്യ മരകാത്തി അച്ഛനോട് പറയുമോ ?"കറുത്തമ്മ പറഞ്ഞു "നല്ല വെല തന്നാല് മീന്തരാം ".....ചെമ്മീൻ - കടലോരം പാടിനടന്ന ഒരു ദുരന്ത പ്രണയകഥ. കറുത്തമ്മ, പരീക്കുട്ടി, പളനി, ചെമ്പൻ കുഞ്ഞു, ചക്കി അങ്ങനെ ഓർമ്മയിൽ മായാതെ നിൽക്കുന്ന ഒരുപിടി നല്ല കഥാപാത്രങ്ങൾ
And so how does the symbol of ambition and acquired wealth, the great boat of Chemban Kunju come to its end: with a broken stern, fluttering money and a deathly laugh.
Why would he laugh otherwise?The Sea. Is the abyss (so the white man would say).
Punishing themselves over the guilt of living off the deaths thousand living things in the sea (that’s their tradition.
Fuck you, white man, and your linear ways of thinking.
White man, why are you doing this?!) after proving himself the greatest fisherman ever by catching the largest (ooh) fish ever (all the while being driven by an internal conflict.
An incredibly moving and tragic tale of a young poor fisherwoman who falls in love with a Muslim man, yet tries to adhere to her own traditions - even though she suffers greatly for the honor of her community
ആഖയാനശൈലി കൊണട മലയാളതതെ അമപരിപപിചച വിസമയംചെമമീൻ വായിചചിരികകേണട ഒരു മലയാള നോവലാണ. ചെമമീൻ ചലചചിതര ആവിഷകരതതോടെയാണ പരസിദധമായത എങകിലും നോവൽ തരുനന വായനാനുഭവം വാകകുകൾകകും അപപുറമാണ. കഥാപാതരങങൾകകിടയിൽ ജീവികകുനന മനുഷയരായി വായനകകാരൻ മാറുനന അപൂർവ അനുഭൂതി.
ആഖ്യാനശൈലി കൊണ്ട് മലയാളത്തെ അമ്പരിപ്പിച്ച വിസ്മയംചെമ്മീൻ വായിച്ചിരിക്കേണ്ട ഒരു മലയാള നോവലാണ്. ചെമ്മീൻ ചലച്ചിത്ര ആവിഷ്കരത്തോടെയാണ് പ്രസിദ്ധമായത് എങ്കിലും നോവൽ തരുന്ന വായനാനുഭവം വാക്കുകൾക്കും അപ്പുറമാണ്. കഥാപാത്രങ്ങൾക്കിടയിൽ ജീവിക്കുന്ന മനുഷ്യരായി വായനക്കാരൻ മാറുന്ന അപൂർവ അനുഭൂതി.
തകഴിയുടെ ആദയതതെ കാലപനിക നോവലാണ ചെമമീന, മുകകുവരുടെ കഥയോട ചേരതത നിരതതി ,കലപനികതയില ഒതുങങി നിലകകാതത യാഥാരഥയബോധതതോടെയുളള സതരീപകഷവും വായികകപപെടെണടാതാണ
തകഴിയുടെ ആദ്യത്തെ കാല്‍പനിക നോവലാണ്‌ ചെമ്മീന്‍, മുക്കുവരുടെ കഥയോട് ചേര്‍ത്ത് നിര്‍ത്തി ,കല്പനികതയില്‍ ഒതുങ്ങി നില്‍ക്കാത്ത യാഥാര്‍ഥ്യബോധത്തോടെയുള്ള സ്ത്രീപക്ഷവും വായിക്കപ്പെടെണ്ടാതാണ്
Tình yêu mà kết cục chỉ co thê la bi kịch
Tình yêu mà kết cục chỉ có thể là bi kịch
set
ലോകസാഹിതയതതിൽ തനനെ നോകകിയാൽ ചെമമീൻ ഒരു കലാസിക ആണ. വലിയൊരു നിരൂപണം തനനെ എഴുതണം എനനുണട. സമയം കിടടുമപോൾ റീവയൂ അപഡേററ ചെയയാം.
ലോകസാഹിത്യത്തിൽ തന്നെ നോക്കിയാൽ ചെമ്മീൻ ഒരു ക്ലാസിക് ആണ്. വലിയൊരു നിരൂപണം തന്നെ എഴുതണം എന്നുണ്ട്. സമയം കിട്ടുമ്പോൾ റീവ്യൂ അപ്ഡേറ്റ് ചെയ്യാം.
A classicA classic and a must read. Though have seen the movie, reading the book was an amazing experience. Finished reading in a go.
This book is crying for a better translation!I've reviewed the book here - https://wetellatale.wordpress.com/201....
Reviewed by Open Letters Monthly
A tragic tale of how superstition and prejudice masked in traditions and customs, greed and gossip bring about the the downfall of a fisher family. In the centre of it all, a young couple's forbidden love - because they come from different religious and caste backgrounds. I had hoped perhaps love would triumph all.
நோபல பரிசு பெறற பிரெஞசு எழுததாளர ஆலபெர காமயுவின கடைசி நூல 'முதல மனிதன'. 1960 இல கார விபததில அவர காலமான போது அவர கைபபையில இருநத முடிககபபெறாத நாவல இது. பினனர 1995 இல அவரது மகள மூலம வெளியிடபபடடது.நாவலின கதாநாயகன ழாக கோரமெரி. அவனது சிறு வயதிலேயே போரில இறநத தநதையைப பறறி தெரிநது கொளவதறகாகப பயணிககிறேன. அவனது எணணவோடடஙகளின தொகுபபு தான இநநாவல. சொலலப போனால தநதையைப பறறி அறிநது கொளளக கிளமபிய கோரமெரி, தனது கடநத காலததில பயணிககிறான. கோரமெரியும அவர பரொபசர மாலனும உரையாடும அடடகாசம. ஒவவொரு பததியையும கணணில ஒததிககலாம
நோபல் பரிசு பெற்ற பிரெஞ்சு எழுத்தாளர் ஆல்பெர் காம்யுவின் கடைசி நூல் 'முதல் மனிதன்'.
அவனது சிறு வயதிலேயே போரில் இறந்த தந்தையைப் பற்றி தெரிந்து கொள்வதற்காகப் பயணிக்கிறேன்.
இனி அவர் கு* விட மாட்டார்' என்றும் தனக்குப் பிடித்தவர்கள் இறந்தால், 'பாவம், இறக்கும் வயசில்லை அவனுக்கு' என்றும் சொல்வதற்குப் பின்னால் அவளது கணவன், மகன், உடன் பிறந்தோர், மருமகன் அத்தனை பேரையும் போரில் பறி கொடுத்தது காரணமாகயிருக்கும்.கோர்மெரியின் தாய் அதிகம் பேசாத, காது கேளாத பெண்.
காம்யுவுக்கு நோபல் பரிசு அறிவிக்கப்பட்டதற்குப் பிறகு தன் ஆசிரியருக்கு அவர் எழுதிய கடிதம் பின்னிணைப்பாகக் கொடுக்கப்பட்டிருக்கிறது.
இது காம்யூ மேல் ஒரு படி ரசனையைக் கூட்டுகிறது.கோத்மெரி- பியர் இளம்பருவ விளையாட்டுகள், விடுமுறை நாட்களில் வேலைக்குச் செல்வது, அவன் மாமாவுடன் வேட்டைக்குச் செல்லும் அத்தியாயங்கள் விறுவிறு சுறுசுறு.போர் பற்றிய காம்யுவின் பார்வை ரொம்பவும் நேர்மையானது.
கிடைக்கும் இடங்களிலெல்லாம் போர் பற்றிய விமர்சனங்களை வைக்க காம்யு தவறவில்லை.சரி, இதற்கு ஏன் 'முதல் மனிதன்' என்று பேர் வச்சுருக்காங்க?
Karuthamma, the daughter of Chakki and Chembakunji is in love with Parekutty, a Muslim living on the sea-shore in a shack.
Meanwhile, Chakki and Karuthamma plot to return the money back to Parekutty, but Karuthamma is married to Palani, an orphan.
In a fit of rage (which Nair does not explain), Chembakunji asks Karuthamma to leave the house and never return.
I wanted to see more depth to the characters and maybe the translation lost the nuanced depiction of the protagonists.
A perfect case of what a book could have been if it had not been lost in translation.
Yes there is plenty to criticize and change in the old ways, but there is also equally plenty of things we can take from that school of thinking.
And rather than bash those old ways against the Kerala shores, Pillai allows different waves (thinking) to wash the shores with his wisdom.I am however giving it 3 stars since I was not very happy with the translation that i got hold of.
Tuy nhiên, làng chài xuất hiện trong Mùa Tôm lại không phải ở Việt Nam, mà là một làng chài phương Nam Ấn Độ, gần làng Thakazhi của tác giả.
Đối với mình mà nói, tác phẩm văn học từng đoạt giải thưởng của Viện Hàn lâm Ấn Độ vào năm 1957 và được dịch ra hàng chục thứ tiếng trên thế giới như Mùa Tôm quả thật không phải là yếu tố quan trọng để mình lựa chọn đọc nó, bởi thứ mình quan tâm đến cuối cùng rốt cuộc cũng chỉ là câu chuyện tình yêu được nhắc đến trong tác phẩm mà thôi.
Another of those that was always on the list of 'to read', managed because of syllabus requirement. Poignant love story, closed societies, tough lifestyles linked with the vagaries of nature, personalities all conniving to keep the young couple separated, can only end in multiple deaths. Nobody ends up happily, neither the one pursuing prosperity, losing all sense of integrity, definitely not those living by their emotions. One could wish that societies would cease creating such desperate lives, alas, it's just a wish!
A poignant tale of immortal love which epitomised love for Malayalees for decades.It was always the Keralites take on Laila Majnu,Heer Ranja and Romeo Juliet.The tale has more than Pareekutti and Karuthamma's unfinished love and final enlightenment.The writing in a simple understandable literature has its share of arrogant dad,doting mom and an incomplete tale of a sibling left to tend and clean after their mess.Panchami is a birth that better never happened.A sordid tale in glimpses and an immortal creation of literature in most.
