https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/315425.In_Defense_of_Food
Pollan defends his right to provide nutrition advice because he speaks on the authority of “tradition and common sense.” But, tradition and common sense will get you about 90% of the way to a healthy diet.
Slowing down to cook and eat and enjoy food are good things, but there has to be room for a little bit of compromise and a sense of reality.
I realize this isn’t what this book is about, but Pollan knows, far better than most people, the true cost-- in terms of animal suffering and environmental destruction-- of animal food production.
Pollan’s opening mantra—-eat food, not too much, mostly plants—-is good advice.
These hungry ghosts sound an awful lot like the modern American eater trapped in the unhealthy western diet demonized in Michael Pollan’s In Defense of Food: An Eater’s Manifesto.
Pollan argues that we eat way too much of the fake stuff, ignoring the foods that our bodies actually need.
At a clipping pace, Pollan examines both the field of nutritional science and the industrialization of food to show the reader just how we got to our particular brand of hell.
Then, thankfully, he offers us a way out.Instead of being hungry ghosts, Pollan tells us we can practice thoughtful consumption.
Mostly plants." I believe that partially because of Pollan's arguments, and the revelatory reporting he did for  The Omnivore's Dilemma, but mostly because I've studied biology, and have at least a limited idea of how complex human bodies and human food can be, and how evolution may not have prepared us for Twinkies.On the other hand, Pollan's rhetoric was definitely fast and loose in this book.
I know he doesn't actually think science is intrinsically incapable of revealing truths about food, but his rhetoric definitely has an anti-scientific air that I can see fueling irrational zealotry.Overall, I really did enjoy most of the book.
A balanced and varied diet of mostly veggies, fruits, whole grains, and lean proteins will meet your nutritional needs.I also agree with him about the nature of nutrition research.
Food marketers sell what people buy.
Plus many people are looking for the quick, easy, and mindless route to healthy living so "special diets," "power foods," and "quickie solutions" sell.
They liked it because they didn't have to think about what foods to eat.
Books like this make me afraid to eat.
At the start, the idea seems simple: "Eat food.
Pollan complicates that simple "eat food" mantra a lot.
Which is not to say In Defense of Food is a complicated read.
It's not Pollan's fault eating has become difficult.
The problem is that the seemingly simple act of eating these days is more difficult than it used to be for our grandparents due to the food engineering/fiddling that's been happening the last few decades.There's oh-so much more info I could lay down here for you, but you wouldn't want to bite into a rotten apple, so why would you want me too spoil this for you?
No, no, read In Defense of Food.
One of the more pernicious aspects of nutritionism is that it encourages us to blame our health problems on lifestyle choices, implying that the individual bears ultimate responsibility for whatever illnesses befall him. It’s worth keeping in mind that a far more powerful predictor of heart disease than either diet or exercise is social class. Pollan contends that Western society has replaced our relationship with food to a relationship with nutrition, to our great loss. Science has sought to f
It’s worth keeping in mind that a far more powerful predictor of heart disease than either diet or exercise is social class.
Pollan contends that Western society has replaced our relationship with food to a relationship with nutrition, to our great loss.
What Pollan calls “the Western diet” is a disaster, replacing actual nutrition with a manufactured diet that loses much of the actual benefit that real food provides.
One interesting thing Pollan notes is that in different parts of the world, people do quite well with various types of diets.
It does appear that there is a single worst way to eat and we have found it.
Michael Pollan is absolutely on to something with his central thesis; namely, that the American diet has been taken over by "edible foodlike substances" (ie, hyper-processed foods) and the American approach to health as it relates to eating has been taken over by "nutritionism" (ie, the idea that food is nothing more than the sum of its nutrient parts).
are the inevitable result of this perverse relationship with food and eating.
His proposed remedy is to "Eat food.
He even laments the fact that Americans don't spend more of their annual income on food!
Mostly plants.’ Actually, the real advice is this book is eat what your Neolithic ancestors evolved to eat and do so in a way that makes eating it a culturally significant part of your life, and not just a way to stuff calories into your face.
In nature, that is of course precisely what eating has always been: relationships among species in systems we call food chains, or food webs, that reach all the way down to the soil.” But we don’t talk about beef or carrots or wine anymore, but trans-fats and beta-carotene and anti-oxidants.
Mindful of the social and health effects of alcoholism, public health authorities are loath to recommend drinking, but the fact is that people who drink moderately and regularly live longer and suffer considerably less heart disease than teetotalers.” Thank god.And Pollan spends the final third of his book offering sensible solutions to combat the Chicken Littles of “Nutritionism” and the fallacies of “Food Science” that expand upon his basic thesis to “Eat food.
Mostly plants,” that will leave you feeling more prepared to combat the hucksters and rubes of the contemporary food industry.
Another example: in his popular book The Omnivore's Dilemma, Pollan was very critical of Whole Foods' support of gigantic organic farms , and in response, the CEO made a commitment to support small, local farmers by buying more of their produce and allowing them to sell their own produce outside the store.
Last week I put a note in the suggestion box at my grocery store: "I would be in HEAVEN if you had organic apples from local farms* .
Pollan argues that about 80% of the population can afford to pay more for food.
Pollan throws lots of interesting facts about the food we consume and its origins.
But while nutritionism has its roots in a scientific approach to food, it’s important to remember that it is not a science but an ideology, and that the food industry, journalism, and government bear just as much responsibility for its conquest of our minds and diets.
I don't know about you, but in this day and age, I'm not interested in following any ideology.All in all this book was a good reminder that like all things, we need to be mindful of what we eat.
A good book with many interesting facts about food and theories.
Truth be told, the official dietary advice could have done better here, but a reader of the recommendations would see encouragements to decrease our consumption of a major class of refined carbohydrate (sugars) and to eat more unrefined carbohydrates in the form of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.But some falsehoods can't be made to look true just by neatly hiding the pesky details behind a missing adjective, and Pollan's book contains some of these ideas, too.
Lesisurely dinners prepared from foods out of your home-grown garden sounds like a great way to live, but re-arranging one’s life to create space to eat well may be impossible for most.That said, there’s still a bushel of great advice in this book.
Even if you can’t afford the time to grow your own garden, or eat every lunch gathered with friends and family, you will at least come away with an understanding of why eating anything that says “low-carb,” “low-fat,” “enriched,” or “fortified” is probably a bad idea.In Omnivore Pollan researched where our food comes from.
Chemists began analyzing food to see what made it tick, and nutritionists began promoting these ingredients/nutrients as ways of achieving health.
I'm not sure I need to review Michael Pollan's In Defense of Food: An Eater's Manifesto.
Foods that haven't been refined or been made into food-like substances that are packaged with the fad labels of the time, tightly wrapped in sugar...
Instead, Pollan goes into how the Western diet has changed over time and a few of the contributing factors such as the government thinking they know best what we should eat after having spoken with someone greasing their wheels.Anyway, In Defense of Food is a firm 3-star rating for me simply because it gets a little repetitive and boring.
As a result the government developed anti-fat nutritional guidelines that the public embraced wholeheartedly, but that ultimately made them unhealthier.He repeatedly points to these "nutritionists" (which he somehow lumps in with greedy capitalists and which almost feels like a derogatory label the way he uses it) that misled the public with their "junk science" and continue to do us all an injustice in their efforts to further our understanding of the nutritional sciences.Interestingly, I happened to be a college student in the eighties studying, of all things, Nutritional Sciences (and while I usually avoid reading these types of books).
In many cases it is nearly impossible to separate the effects of a single nutrient on a person's well being from the rest of their diet and overall lifestyle.Studies nevertheless attempt to drill down to this level, for two reasons: the prevalence of reductionist thinking in other academic fields and the fact that, politically, it's a lot easier to tell people to eat less or more of an individual nutrient or compound (trans fat, e.g) than it is to recommend that they eat less of a food, since the food has lobbyists on K Street in Washington.
I've been sucked into the cult of "nutritionism" as Pollans calls it, the belief that what's healthy about the food are the identified micronutrients it contains, and that foods are either healthful elixers or near poisons, depending on whether or not they contain the nutritional demon of the moment (once this was saturated fat, now it's trans fats).
Scientists obviously don't know a lot about the inner workings of food-- nutrition is a new science, and we've witnessed such faddish changes in its fundamental precepts (margarine is better for you!
Until you try to avoid eating processed foods, in which case it also becomes enormously challenging.
Eu quero plantar couve, comer fruta depois dela já não estar mais tão bonita, ir na feira só pra olhar as comidas todas.
Empolgação à parte, recomendo esse livro a todo mundo que já se pegou parado entre as prateleiras no meio do supermercado, pensando, "eu gostaria de comer de maneira mais saudável, mas é tão difícil!" Não é, amigo.
Parece que é porque o mundo (e particularmente o supermercado) é deliberadamente configurado pra fazer parecer que comer bem é difícil.
Mas não é.
É bem mais fácil — e bonito, e poético — do que parece.
Leia esse livro.
Instead of the basics of any "real" bread (yeast, flour, water and salt), Sara Lee's version instead has over 32 ingredients, with only about 4 that one can recognize as actual food items.Pollan points out that, though we may be the most evolved and intelligent of all the species on the planet, we are also the only species that require food charts, diagrams, pyramids and a panel of "experts" to tell us what to eat.
And about all those different fats....What are we to do with all this conflicting and changing information?Pollan suggests a diet of fruits and vegetables, meat that is 100% grass fed, and anything that is genuinely real food.
So "Eat less meat and dairy" got malformed into "Choose lean protein sources like fish, chicken, and fat-free dairy products."This is bad, Pollen argues, because scientists and policy makers don't know that much about how the individual nutrients behave outside of their complex, whole food systems.
Replace that stuff with whole foods, especially plants and especially the leafy greens of plants.In general, a lot of Pollen's suggestions make sense, and the book is written in an easy to read, almost conversational tone that makes it easy to (pardon the pun) digest.
Short and poignant, but very powerful. This is going to not only change what/how I eat, but my whole relationship with food. Everyone should read this.
It’s not easy, even Pollan says that, with two working parents, no one has time to make their own pasta noodles, or put up pounds of homegrown produce, but if we do agree to slow down, and maybe make time for those family-centered, traditional things, what would be the downside?
Would grandma recognize it?To that I want to add one additional, and I think it builds directly on what Pollan has said, and it’s a “dieting” rule that I have had for a long time even when I was trying to cut calories- ANY food made with love, is diet-friendly.
Michael Pollan's advice, "Eat food, mostly plants, not too much" is just brilliant and is explained in great detail throughout the book.
I knew of this saying before reading the book, but hearing the details about it made it so much more interesting and applicable.Pollan is a gifted journalist and writer who has researched a tremendous amount of information about food, the food industry, and their relationship to our health.
I went into this book knowing about lot of about food and health already, but I never felt bored, I learned many new things, and I loved having all of the information complied in one place.
Covering similar ground to his book The Omnivore's Dilemma, Pollan discusses ways to eat healthily despite a marketplace flooded with over-processed food and food-like products.
He makes a very convincing case that food science has been oversimplified into "nutritionism", which reduces the idea of food to its component nutrients.
Even fresh food is suffering from this simplification, as the big agricultural companies use industrial fertilizers that are equivalent to junk food for plants to grow their crops.
A short, convincing book worth a look by everyone who cares both about their health, and our food production system.
"Eat food.
Mostly plants." Michael Pollan's succinct dietary advice is so simple it's practically insulting, but thanks to a combination of bad science and government influence, Americans are more confused than ever about how and what to eat.
Our ancestors wouldn't recognize most of the "food" we eat today, things like refined pasta fortified with omega-3s or diet soda spiked with vitamins.
Pollan makes a compelling case for doing away with the Western diet and only eating foods that your great-grandmother would recognize as such.
Just finished it.
Loved it.
I borrowed this copy, which is a shame as I would have highlighted it, I shall have to buy my own copy and highlight it.Eat food.
Mostly plants.This is the message of the book, brilliant in its simplicity.
I wholeheartedly agree with everything written.The first half of the book talks about what is wrong with our western food culture.
The second half of the books discusses some loose guidelines for improving your food intake, basically expounding on the ideas of "Eat food.
Mostly plants.".Go buy this book.
Stop eating shit.
In Defense of Food is maybe redundant for anyone who has already read Omnivore and maybe watched a couple online interviews with the author.The core argument here is that many people know very little about food due to nutritional science, which coopted TK (traditional knowledge) too early and was then codified into law before leaking into the bureaucracy.
Here's one concise critique: "If any of the authors of the critical review are conscious of the cosmic irony here -- that the principal contribution of thirty years of official nutritional advice has been to replace a possibly mildly unhealthy fat in our diets with a demonstrably lethal one -- they are not saying." Pollan concludes that people should "eat food, not too much, and mostly plants."There's probably an easier takeaway.
But I also learned a lot, particularly a theory about how Americans think about food that seems utterly true for the majority of my friends and family.
One theory is that this is inherently elitist because poor people can't spend more money or time on food.
And there are millions of extremely poor non-Americans who find the time to prepare way better food that what we have.
People seriously dislike change, even when they know that it's better for their health, their kids' health, and the environment, not to mention way more delicious.
While Taleb is on the face and abrasive, Pollan is more subtle and gradual.In this book he attacks nutritionism-the science or rather the ideology of breaking down foods into their constituent nutrients in order to assess their benefits to the eater.It is a lamentation of how food marketing, with sufficient help from the Government and journalists, has not only robbed all the pleasure out of eating but also has made people utterly confused and anxious about the food they eat.
A great read, if you are tired of nutrition labels, food pyramids and journalist advice.
The science behind the health claims in the supermarket is astoundingly bad, worse than I would have believed.I like Pollan's approach to making suggestions--irreverent, simple principles like "Don't eat anything your great grandmother wouldn't recognize as food" or "Avoid foods with health claims" or "Avoid foods with things you can't pronounce" or "Eat mostly plants, especially leaves." And I especially love that he makes a point of noting that there are lots of healthy diets--some high fat, some low, some vegan, some 100% meat and dairy (though those are mostly gone now).I do quibble with a few of his "rules"--I know he was thinking of carrageenan and high-fructose corn syrup when he coined the great-grandmother rule, but I doubt any of my great grandmothers would have recognized some things that Pollan (and I) would other otherwise approve of--like tofu or seaweed.
