https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20862566-azathoth
3.5A glimpse of what a dreamer might encounter if he is allowed by Outer deities (Azathoth) and the skies to become 'a part of their fabulous wonder'. It seems it is a beginning of a novel that Lovecraft never finished. Too bad. It would have been great.
I finally put The case of Charles Dexter Ward behind me and stumble upon this little gem of beauty and poetry. His worst and his best side by side. Surrealist, daydreamy goodness.....Wonderful stuff. I wish I could give more than 5 stars.
What a tantalizing little fragment. Part of me wishes Lovecraft had finished the story, as this very brief glimpse has language that deviates from his usual, in a beautifully lyrical way. Then again, some things are best left as they are.
2017Such a gorgeous, well-constructed, poetic piece. See Dolphins swim in space! The piece reminds me of an instrumental by NIN, which unfolds as despairing beauty. If you want to hear, "A Warm Place" (I heard this, in my mind, as I read it): https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=MN6sfJ1...2015:My second read. Lovecraft creates stories with such exquisite and beautiful language. He paints colorful and lively scenery in this short, poetic piece. A man goes out of his body into space, and sees.
I didn't understand anything of this tale. Wasn't it incomplete? Did I miss something? I didn't get the point, seriously. :s
It is not a short story but merely a parcel. Couldn't disagree that as a novel preface it would be mesmerizing. Yet, the continuity in writing in the same poetic manner is the real challenge!
Rating:3.5Hmmmmmm...I was a bit confused with this one, I think it was about astral projection or something along those lines. Interesting thought
Nonostante abbia già letto la raccolta Mammut di Lovecraft, la mia ricerca di tutto ciò che è stato tradotto di e sulle sue opere continua. Non credo esista una collezione più completa di questa.
A fragment that describes an unknown person living in a bleak, colorless, lifeless city that comes home every night and stares up at the sky. One night, he's transported into a cosmos of wonderful colors and characters. That's it. Sometimes I think they'll publish anything by famous authors even if they have to dig stuff out of the trash. I'm a huge proponent of Lovecraft. But, I don't know why this story exists.2 out of 5 confused starsYou can also follow my reviews at the following links:https://kenmckinley.wordpress.comhttps://www.goodreads.com/user/show/5...http://www.amazon.com/gp/profile/A2J1...TWITTER - @KenMcKinley5
لوفكرافت هيدخلني المورستان قريب.لوفكرافت يبقي أحد أقوي كتاب الرعب في القرن اللي فات. كتاباته أدخلت مصطلحات جديدة للغة وللفن الروائي زي العزيف، كتولو، أزاثوث، النكرونوميكون، الحظرد. كل ده ألهم كتير من بعده بتعديلات وكتابات كتير، بس ماحدش منهم عرف فعلا يدخلك للحكاية بسوداويتها زي لوفكرافت.
Mini-relato entre comillas porque, en realidad, era el inicio de una novela que tenía en mente H. P. Lovecraft pero que nunca pudo seguir por su pronta muerte. Precioso y mágico inicio. <3

Холодне сіре місто нещадне до тих, хто прагне мріяти. Один чоловік божеволів у своїй квартирі, вікна якої виходили тільки на інші вікна, тому почав вдивлятися вище і далі - в небо. З роками він пізнав багато таємниць, аж якось небо зійшло до нього і злилося в одне ціле із затхлим повітрям квартири, яку тепер заполонили небачені досі дива.
Fragment. A dreamer finds his dreams. Again. Still, I like the dreamer stories, mostly.(Moved 2016 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
5/10
Quite possibly the greatest opening sentence I've ever read. Truly an exercise in what a shorter short story can accomplish and why Lovecaft is a master at his craft.
very short. Very average.
So far, my favourite.
3CRÍTICA: http://www.planocritico.com/critica-j...
Nothing special.
I guess, according to Lovecraft, age has fallen upon our world, for we are in the time of grey cities rearing to smoky skies. Kind of maudlin when you think about it really. The unnamed narrator evokes all of us, we who read to escape the ugly atmosphere that a world of money and power had forged around us, ensnaring us, sealing us.Not much to say about the story, unfortunately. It's merely a fragment, a prelude to something else, which may or may not have been written. While not terrible, it's certainly brief and entirely devoid of a higher purpose.
I'm actually astounded that this one even has a category here. Labeled as "short story", it's not really even that. It's short, yes, but it's an incomplete novel. Oh well. I read it, it has a category; ergo it qualifies for inclusion. If it's any consolation to my perceived assumed detractors, I've read longer works that are not included here because there's no category or wiki link for them. It's disheartening yes, but one must press on.
"There came to that room wild streams of violet midnight glittering with dust of gold; vortices of dust and fire, swirling out of the ultimate spaces and heavy with perfumes from beyond the worlds. Opiate oceans poured there, litten by suns that the eye may never behold and having in their whirlpools strange dolphins and sea-nymphs of unrememberable deeps"
The modern world has been stripped of imagination and belief in magic when a man gazing from his window upon the stars comes to observe secret vistas unsuspected by normal humanity. One night the gulf between his world and the stars is bridged, and his mind ascends from his body out into the boundless cosmos.
This is the unfinished work of Lovecraft, so really just a snippet, or vignette of what could have been.There's little to comemnt on, as the plot and characters aren't expounded, so we're left with some beautiful prose which promises much, but ultimately doesn't deliver.Onwards into the realms of Lovecraft I go....
What the hell Etch Pee? What exactly were you thinking when you wrote this? What were you smoking? I would love to have a puff of that good stuff. Is this meant to be a story? Or poetry in prose form? What am I missing?
Offers a poetic and surreal glimpse into the wondrous dream cycle. Azathoth wasn't given much time to shine in his own story as it was an unfinished fragment of what was originally intended to become a full-length novel, but he appeared in many others in the form as a pretty disturbing entity.
contains the only known fragment of Lovecraft's abandoned novel Azathoth. too bad, it looked promising. in it good ol' howard's obsession with 18th century french weirdo fantasy novel Vathek starts to border plagiarism.
Mi segunda lectura de Lovecraft y me gusto muchisimo.Tuve que leerlo 2 o 3 veces ¿Porqué?La primera no le entendí nadita jajajaLa segunda me dejo pensando muchisimo y quede muy sorprendido.Las otras por que me gusto mucho.
This is more of a fragment than an actual story. Just as Lovecraft sets the mood, it ends without really introducing any characters or semblance of plot. It starts well, but that's really all you can say about this.
