https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411171.Blood_and_Money
This bleak story is one of the best true-crime books around.Joan Robinson, the daughter of Ash Robinson, a rich oil millionaire, dies mysteriously, and her husband, John Hill, is brought to trial for murder.
It's also very strongly implied that Ash set up John's murder.You would think that John, having been harassed, wrongfully accused, and finally murdered by his crazed father-in-law, would be the most sympathetic person on earth.And you would be wrong.
Another person on trial has some defense, but her lawyer lazily pleads her guilty on the chance that she'll be released on appeal.
Very well written, I especially like that the court cases, which could have been boring if allowed to dominate the book, are seperated by the stories and people who lead up to them.
With the last most damning court case, the author allows the real events and words to do the talking.
One of the things I came away with was just how convoluted and binding the system at the time was for prosecution lawyers.
For example It's ludicrous that it was not legal for the prosecution to show a jury police records of a defendant.
One of the best true-crime books of all time, in my opinion.
And he knew how the law-and-justice system worked every bit as well as he knew how it DIDN'T work."Blood And Money" is exhaustively thorough, and exhaustively long, in the way that the best true-crime books of the 1970s were ...
and in the way true-crime books are no longer allowed to be.
And, happily, many of today's true-crime authors routinely hold it up as just such a classic.I don't care about the South, I don't care about the upper crust and I didn't like a single character in "Blood And Money." But none of that mattered because I like a good story, and "Blood And Money" is one of the best.
Except of course how totally bizarre the rich Texans are.
That stuck with me from decades ago when I read this for the first time.The crime of the murdered wife/daughter was all resolved by halfway through, then the obsessed old rich guy (the original victim's father) just basically went out and hired people and made sure that the murderer paid.Wonder what ever happened to the kid?
It was the first time I had read about Racehorse Haynes, the attorney for the original murderer.
Wow, and attorneys wonder why people think they are totally willing to sell themeselves for money.
This true crime story covers the typical elements that precede the act of murder. The hunger for power and control is fueled by greed, lust and revenge that drives desperate people to unimaginable acts. It's a detailed analysis of the motives of a troubled family and prominent businessmen sinking to the level of gangland reprobates to satisfy their insatiable desires. The twists and turns along the way deliver surprising results all the way to the last page in this Edgar Award winning tale.
A compelling, if overly long, look at a Texas family's descent into tragedy and murder in the late '60s/early '70s. Lots of larger than life characters and a story so bizarre, it has to be true. By the end, though, I was just exhausted: at some point the narrative had begun to feel like misery porn. I'm off to cleanse myself with a novel about chefs.
"Some men steal and kill...because they think they are too ugly to do anything else."I expected more from this. I loved the first two acts, but the third left me wanting. The courtroom drama just wasn't dramatic. Or maybe I just didn't care enough about Bobby, Lilla, and Marcia. It wasn't their story.
The book opens with the death of socialite Joan Robinson Hill, the daughter of crusty wealthy oilman Ash Robinson.
A fiction writer who made up a story of this complexity would be hailed a master storyteller, but Thompson worked from interviews, research, and trial transcripts and made up nothing, yet he spins a story that is compelling and revealing of Houston in the 1960s—or at least of one segment of Houston society, presided over by a smothering father who felt he could control his tiny world, at least where his daughter was concerned.
I notice that my average rating on books is almost a perfect five. There's a reason. I only rate books I finish and I only finish books that thrill me. Blood and Money, similar to Serpentine, is not a complex story but it is a great way to spend a couple days sitting out by the pool on vacation. I'm not giving it a 5 for it's deep meaning or stylistic presentation. It's just a great story of a little too much parental love.
This true crime book is chilling, particularly if you grew up in River Oaks like I did and went to Christmas parties in the house where everything happened. I'm not much into the true crime genre, but I highly recommend this book for people who are... and even people who aren't, now that I think about it.
I've been long infatuated with this story and finally got around to reading this book. Lilla Paulus was my Grandfather's adopted cousin (she was adopted as an infant by his aunt and uncle), so I grew up hearing about this saga. I thought I had an idea of how crazy this story was, but this book provided many more details I had never heard. Some of the family stories about Lilla and her wild and crazy early-adult years put another interesting twist on the tale and made it that much better for me to read.
Great true story!Very much worth reading. Tedious in places. I rememberparts of this trial in my early teens. Ash Robison was a great father!
Fascinating true crime story. I was amazed at all the twists and turns of this narrative. Very well written and presented. Can’t wait to discuss it with my book club!
The story was very interesting with a lot of twists and crazy turns. The book dragged a little bit and I found the author to drone on about details that didn’t matter to the story. He probably could have told the same story in a lot less pages.
an old classic! one of my favorites
One of the best true crime books I've read. Highly recommend.
The other, "Blood and Money", is a sprawling tale, set in Houston, and is the story of many people who are touched by a woman's death and the murder of her husband a couple of years later.I've read three classic true-crime books.
In "Blood", the first part is the life and death of Joan Robinson Hill, a legendary Houston society beauty and equestrian.
The book's second part is about the murder of John Hill, in front of his third wife, his son, and his mother, and the cast of characters involved in that murder.
This book stands the test of time.Thompson is a master of the material, and writes perceptively of a passel of Texas characters as varied as high-powered and high-living oil men, an ambitious young doctor from poor rural beginnings, society matrons, debutantes, a heroin-addicted prostitute, street cops and detectives, and regular people doing their best to scratch out an honest living from day to day.
I had no idea until I read the book that it was the Hill house where so much of the story took place, including the murder of Dr. Hill.
The events detail the life of Joan, born to a rich, spoiling and doting father, Ash Robinson in Houston Texas.
We follow lightly thru her younger years, which helps to paint the picture of her father’s overbearing concern and love, a borderline obsessive behavior.Joan has trouble staying married in part due to her father’s behavior.
It becomes more and more murky, and all along the reader is wondering how does this father keep the energy to doggedly pursue his daughter’s murderer?I recommend this read to anyone interested in true crime, old-time Texas oil barons and the juicy gossip that followed them and their lifestyles.
don't get me wrong, this is an entertaining read.
worked through it quickly and efficiently.
so many topics, people and places come up in generally discussing the history of the City of Houston and the legendary opulence of the Texans of the era.
and from that perspective, I would recommend this reading to anyone interested in 20th century Texas history.now with that said, I'm happy I read the book.
but for me it was just a good book, not a great book.
good read -- just not a super high "wow factor" for me.
By the time Joan is taken to the hospital, she’s dead.For obvious reasons, Ash is convinced that his monster son-in-law killed his beloved girl, and a man with this much power and clout will stop at nothing to bring about a murder conviction.
At this point in the narrative, the story has the appeal of a Peyton Place drama, but once the detective work and murder trials begin, the book does get a bit bogged down with too many details.
Anne and John’s marriage goes off the rails as well, and she testifies that John told her that he actually did kill Joan.
I read this many years ago but because I was slightly acquainted with Dr. John Hill, he being a doctor on staff at the small hospital that I worked at as a nurse, I found it fascinating. I still think of this case every time I drive through River Oaks on Kirby Dr. I'm sure I have forgotten much of the book since, but for anyone interested in true crime novels I would recommend it.
This true crime is very interesting, especially if you know Houston at all. The descriptions really take you back there! I have family who knew the family and that made it even more interesting. The house still sits prominently on a corner lot in River Oaks.
Great book! This book is as great as "In Cold Blood" There is truly an art to writing a True crime book and making it as compellable to read as a good novel. Unfortunately now I have to read all of his books because it was that good.
Interesting start but devolves into a lot of legal/courtroom information that is not especially riveting.
The core of the story concerns the sudden and mysterious death of a wealth young woman who was well known and well liked throughout her community.
The second realm is much broader than the first, and much more difficult to wrestle into a thorough and coherent story.Thompson is an excellent portrayer of characters, and he introduces each new character with rich and salient detail before they become actors in the story.
If you like stories that portray complex (and lurid) human interaction within a rich social and historical context, you will love this book.
This is an eye opening, well written book about how the "other halves live"--the upper half awash in privilege, power and money and the lower half, people known as characters, who appear on police blotters for vagrancy, robbery, drugs and prostitution.
When the paths of these two segments of society cross, enter the law in the form of battling attorneys and those who enforce the law, police officers.One of the most appealing aspects of this book, aside from its wonderful insightful, comic comparisons, is the way the author introduces the main characters by capturing the social background of where they come from.
A true crime masterpiece with two intertwining mysteries: did John Hill murder his wife?
And who murdered John Hill while he was awaiting trial?If you ever watched Dominick Dunne's "Power, Privelege and Justice," then you're familiar with the concept of 'rich people behaving badly.' This is all of that, with a million twists and turns.
Multiple autopsies, exhumations, poison, legal precedents, high-priced experts, incompetence and chicanery--It's all here, and that's just the first case!The second case?
It survived multiple lawsuits by several of its subjects, and won awards including an Edgar.
If true crime is your thing, read this.
Case solved?The man who taught me to ride over 60 years ago gave me this book (in hard copy) over a year ago and has asked me if I've read it several times since.
Including on his Christmas card.
I find reading on Kindle so much easier, I decided to see if it was available..
So today, I will call to wish John "Merry Christmas" - I wanted to wait until I could answer "yes".What an incredible journey through the lives of such disparate, interwoven people.
Well researched, well written.
Not always easy to follow the threads that link the characters.
What follows is a sordid story propelled by money, sex, and murder.
Thomas Thompson gives us an excellent accounting as we follow him through the case and onto how it played out in the courtroom.
We learn about potential witnesses, what happens behind the scenes, and the court trial.
The investigative depth reminds me of the Undisclosed podcast; not that this story involves a wrongful conviction.
The similarities are in the expanded story of what happened, the key players, maneuverings that go on to bring a case to trial, and what happens in court.I borrowed the book from Hoopla through my local library.
