https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/331046.The_Continuum_Concept
The comparison of such different settings just doesn't make sense.A specific critique I have of the parenting style that the author advocates is her critique of modern Western parents being too "child-centered." While I agree with the importance of a child being immersed in the normal life of adults and society, I don't think this should be done at the exclusion of direct interaction and attention, which in my experience babies both need and thrive on.
It’s an entirely different game to see those theories in action.I think the most amazing part was her conceptualization of the modern infant born in a hospital and placed in a crib, instead of in where it instinctively knows he belongs (in Mama’s arms).
How horrible that must be.I have such a strong, mama-bear, visceral reaction to the very idea – and a holy horror of myself for the many times I have listened to parents instructions instead of my own heart and let babies cry – that I can’t seem to get cohesive sentences out just now.There are many places where Leidloff is full of crap…but anyone who writes a “raise your child this way” kind of a book is full of crap.
I first read this book seven years ago, as a new mom, and just reread it for book group.
First of all, I am appalled at the state of mind I must have been in when I first read it, cause boy did I swallow it hook, line, and sinker.
Or how awesome it is that the girls' in the indigenous cultures greatest joy stems from the pleasure of bringing their father a drink of water.
Yeah, that resembles what I want for my girls.Anyway, I still find the book unsettling for a couple of truths, as in true to my experience.
But Liedloff doesn't know that (no one can), and anyone coming to her book after a few months or even weeks of mothering is in for a soul-wrenching read.I am a babywearer, and my daughter spent her first four months in my bed and in-arms.
Then I had to go back to work, and my husband and I, along with our pediatrician, believed that we would all sleep better -- with our primary care and concern being our baby girl -- if she left the family bed.
The evidence presented for the book's main premise - that western traditions of raising children are damaging and a primary cause of drug abuse, homosexuality, social isolation and all manner of other societal evils - is hardly scientific.
The author illustrates the evilness of playpens with an anecdote about a Yuqana tribesman who builds a crude playpen out of sticks for his children.
Why did he feel the need to build one, if in fact the tribe's child-raising techniques to date were so idyllic?
It's never explained and I find myself wondering whether this example - and others - are fabricated 'evidence' to support the author's theories.
It was interesting to read about the observations between western culture and the indian tribe's culture, but here it ends...
She assumes a lot of things without, seemingly, any other basis than her observations...
and while I agree with a lot of the thing she writes...I cannot in any way recommend anyone read it after this passage on homosexuality.
It's just assuming to much...I would always recommend Our babies ourselves over this book, it has a more scientific approach and the research is based on far more societies than The continuum concept which is based on two.

This book was very interesting, and definitely worth reading if you have/are going to have a baby.
She says that packing your baby around in a baby carrier, and co-sleeping, and basically keeping baby near you at all times, meets a psychological need that both mother and baby have to be close to each other; she says it eliminates postpartum depression, and helps babies develop into capable, confident children and adults.
And since this book was written in the 'Seventies, and many people have read it and applied the principles, more research could be done.
Backed by very little, if any, science, the author bases a "new" theory of child care to be used by Western parents on her observation of the Yequanna tribe in a South American jungle.
While I wholly support attachment parenting styles (such as frequent carrying of your baby), many of Liedloff's assumptions and suggestions are naive.
I count myself out of this contingent and maybe that's why I just can't support the theories the book lays out.
Actually, whether or not you're having a baby, I think this is a very interesting read.
The way we become parents and raise babies in our culture is historically quite strange and I think we would do ourselves all some good if we took some of the principles of this book to heart.
Here's a quote:"It is no secret that the 'experts' have not discovered how to live satisfactorily, but the more they fail, the more they attempt to bring the problems under the sole influence of reason and disallow what reason cannot understand or control."And another..."We are now fairly brought to heel by the intellect; our inherent sense of what is good for us has been undermined to the point where we are barely aware of its working and cannot tell an original impulse from a distorted one."
When keeping in mind that the author is neither a parent or an anthropologist, this book gives an incredibly different, and much needed point of view on baby-rearing.
A must-read by any parent, whether you agree 100% or not, everyone with an intent to raise a child should give this book a read in order to see another perspective.
The insights in this book are invaluable when forging your own parental style, one that frees the mother to pursue her own needs while at the same time giving the baby what he needs as well.
This is one of the most influential books I've ever read. The friend who gave it to me said, "This was the book that turned me into a thinking person."Instead of speculating about what does or doesn't work for children based on research or educated guesses, this books takes us into the lives of a highly successful culture in South America that actually thrives at making people happy, connected and energetic.
Entirely changed the way I view parenting.
Read American Individualisms: Child Rearing and Social Class in Three Neighborhoods (Culture, Mind, and Society) if that sounds interesting.*If you want to be a better mom, read Dear Parents: Caring for Infants with Respect, The Secret of Childhood, or Escape from Childhood (depending on the age of your kids).The above books are far more worth reading than this one.This book, the Continuum Concept, is an uneducated woman ranting about what she thinks a tribe of Native Americans think about raising babies.
The little girl had seen the women grating as long as she could remember and immediately rubbed the nubbin up and down her board like the others.
The sense of wellbeing enjoyed in the womb came to an abrupt end at birth, and most of these kids would never again recover it.The Indians, on the other hand, raised their children in accordance with ancient instincts — a specific sequence of normal developmental experiences that Liedloff called the human continuum.
In the civilized world, “primitive” instincts were disregarded, and society was dominated by intellect.
But when these non-continuum instructions are followed, civilized mothers “produce children they cannot love, who grow up like themselves, anti-self, antisocial, incapable of giving, destined forever to go hungry.”Indian children, raised via time-proven instincts, develop normally, in a sequence designed by evolution.
Civilization damages us in numerous ways, throughout our lives.
Liedloff's premise is that babies who are unconditionally and constantly held and who participate, albeit passively from their mother's arms, in the world around them grow up to be happier and more secure people.This is fine and I sure did my share of carrying with my two children, who are happy and secure enough for their age.
Vacuuming with a 20lb child strapped to you is not always my preferred way to spend the morning.Two: The author says that all deviant behavior is due to lack of sufficient "in-arms" time as an infant.
It gives you hope for the species and it gives you something to do in regard to any mothers and infants you know right now.I have heard vague stirrings about how babies should be kept in a sling, and have known that normal babies slept with the parents during most of human history but Liedloff spells out the rest of it so clearly and shows how this has affected our mental and physical and spiritual health as a species more clearly than I had thought it through.
The book is often quite boring, preachy, and old-fashioned: She seems to revere the strict gender roles of the native people she lives with, urges mothers to not work so that they may be with their baby “in arms,” continually refers to her subjects as “savages” and Westerners as “civilized,” and “blames” poor parenting on “turning people homosexual.” I can appreciate the parenting advice while still rejecting the form in which the advice comes.
O carte care, desi a fost scrisa cu mult timp in urma, este de foarte mare actualitate si ridica probleme reale ale societatii de azi dar mai ales ne ofera tuturor o cale de iesire...trebuie doar sa o urmam si sa fim consecventi si mai ales sa ni ne lasam infranti de cliseele de la tot pasul.
Téma je zajímavé a hodno zamyšlení, ale ta forma! Začátek je rozplizlý, málem jsem knihu hned odložil. Místy fanatické.
Cribs and full-time schools are the worst invention of First world's society...While a lot of scientists agree that the child should have lots of contact, a lot of parents still keep their babies in another room or at least out of the bed in fear they would roll over their infant.
Nothing like a fawn, who just waits till the mother returns.I definitly don`t agree with all Jean's views, I consider her teachings valueable.
They support a lot of my feelings about the capable child, who needs connection but no cage, but I can't understand how she contemplates with clichés or ignores acutual dangers like cars.
Jean Liedloff’s book “The Continuum Concept” offers westerners a look at what the lives of contented and functional human beings look like.
Unattended, or, more often, at the periphery of attention of a group of children playing with the same lack of respect for the pit, he took charge of his own relationships to all the surrounding possibilities.Perhaps the most profound revelation offered by “The Continuum Concept” is that humans are, above all, social animals.
So why the almost Victorian rhetoric?The "Continuum Concept" pretty much is what is now referred to as "Attachment Parenting." That such child-rearing is STILL controversial (witness the recent stupid Time magazine cover of a nearly 4-year old child breastfeeding in an totally inappropriate pose and with the even more inflammatory headline: "Are you mom enough?"My other biggest criticism of Liedloff, is her simplistic psychologizing, most ignorantly in her discussion of homosexuality!
Thankfully, her 'treatment' of homosexuality mars only about three pages of this dense 164-page book.The following is from the Continuum website:According to Jean Liedloff, the continuum concept is the idea that in order to achieve optimal physical, mental and emotional development, human beings — especially babies — require the kind of experience to which our species adapted during the long process of our evolution.
Ideea principală a cărții este că pentru a crește din punct de vedere emoțional, mental și spiritual nu avem nevoie de tot amalgamul de tehnologii, posibilități, și haosul format de societatea modernă, totul se reduce la ceva cu mult mai simplu decât ne-am fi imaginat noi: ca să fim fericiți nu trebuie decât să ne urmăm instinctele, să ne creștem copiii așa cum simțim.
Ce a remarcat-o cel mai mult pe autoare la acest trib, încă din primele momente de când a intrat în contact cu ei, a fost armonia și liniștea care dăinuia printre ei.
I recommend this though any insight into myself personally cannot be accurately gained without talking to me about it.That said, Liedloff in her travels as a not anthropologist encountered and spent time with some tribal groups, noticed how the adults (and all) appeared to be smiling and calm and non-violent/appropriately aggressive etc.She wonders why & proceeds to attend closely to the general/specific interactions between the older people with the younger or infant people.Read it to know more.
What I took from it was a different way to think about the interaction of myself with these little people ('my' kids)--well, I read it when I first had my older son and was studying to become a La Leche League Leader--and the environment we all interacted within daily.That said, to illustrate: None of this "childproofing" crap.
I am sure there is a grain of truth in what she says in favor of the indigenous way of life, and of course industrialized Western culture leaves much to be desired, but the best way probably lies somewhere in the middle.In a condescending and manipulative tone, she advocates holding one's baby while it sleeps (today usually referred to as "co-sleeping").
Most of her insights seem to derive from personal revelation rather than scientific method.Her clinching Catch-22 exhortation is based on her observation that the Yequana treat joy as something found in the moment while Western culture treats joy as a goal to be obtained in the future.
Popis toho, jak je dítě nejprve pasivním účastníkem "na břiše" matky a pak se postupně odpoutává, až je na to připraveno, to bylo taky pěkně vysvětleno.Jenže zbylé 2/3 knížky byly takové dost o ničem a vzhledem k tomu, jak stará knížka je, už by to asi chtělo opět nějaký update, viz.
Stejně, jako u většiny těchto knih mi vadí vnucování toho, že všechno novodobé a západní je nutně špatné a vlastně jsme všichni nespokojení, jen o tom nevíme.
století v západní společnosti vlastně nespokojení....tak se na to připravte.
Relativně černobílý pohled na to, jak je středověký model společnosti a výchovy vlastně dokonalý a my všichni, co jsme vyrostli v 21.
The eventual presence of about half the village at the scene did not appear to affect any effort towards either self-control or dramatization."-Page 89 |"Among the Yequana the attitude of the mother or caretaker of a baby is relaxed, attentive to some other occupation than baby-minding but receptive at all times to a visit from the crawling or creeping adventurer."-Page 89 |"She does not initiate the contacts nor contribute to them except in a passive way.
Jean Liedloff lived with Stone Age Indians in South America for 3 years and studyed the way they raised their children and the effects this had on the childrens development.
The only thing I can compare this to is the stone age diet, I've studied this and followed this and It does make a huge difference on health and well being.
Living in Europe a couple years, I did notice more mothers seem to follow closer to these concepts then American mothers.
I haven't felt so strongly about a book in awhile, but again I'm not a mother so its from a different perspective.
While I can understand how other reviewers might see Liedoff's writing as uncited, I do believe as a first-time mom that this book helped me trust the instincts knew I had.
We live in a culture that in some aspects pits mother against baby, and tells us that a "good" baby is well trained.
I never felt this to be true, even though my baby was an incredibly high-needs baby (from my perspective).
So I give her book four stars for the impact it's had on my life and early mothering.
