https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107664.Raven_s_Gate
Anthony Horowitz quickly became a favorite author of mine after reading and loving Magpie Murders and The House of Silk.
I don't typically read young adult fantasy novels, but I'm not opposed to giving something different a try now and then.
The writing was a bit too simplistic for me and the plot seemed to stall, or go in circles - much like the roads leading in and out of Lesser Malling, the town where Matt Freeman has been sent to live with a very odd and creepy woman named Jayne Deverill.
I'll read anything else Horowitz writes - but I'll stick to his books written for adults.
And the unfolding of his story was done very well and in such a way that you were hooked from the beginning to the end.It is the first book of Anthony Horowitz’s Gatekeeper series.
I received the fourth book (Necropolis) as a giveaway and because it was the 4th book I went out and got the 1st three because I don’t like to start reading a story in the middle.I can’t wait to start the next book the only problem I have is that there should be a 5th book but so far I have not found any reference to a future publication date.
So I’m hoping the story will not end unfinished.
I wish there were more YA books that involved vats of face-melting acid.Review at some point.
This book was kind of cheesy.
Ok. Not just kind of.
Really cheesy.I can picture it.
Horowitz sitting down to write "Stephen King for teens!" Except that Stephen King for teens doesn't have any of the interesting scary bits that normal Stephen King does.Matthew Freeman (or just Matt, because reasons) is 14 and an orphan and apparently super important to the sort of person I imagined a Satanist to be when I was 10.
TL;DR synopsis: (view spoiler)[Dead parents!
Crappy aunt takes him in!
Crappy aunt doesn't like being a parent so much!
Everyone he starts to like gets murdered because saying the lord's prayer backwards gives you demon powers!
(hide spoiler)]Actually, in declarative sentence form this book doesn't sound so bad.
Another surprisingly good read. I was always excited about what was going to happen next. Lots of imagination in this story, and it's well written. It's such an underrated book. The ending could have been better but it was still good.I was scared this book was going to be like "The Darkest Minds" series which had a decent story but I just did not enjoy it at all. It didn't resonate with me... but Raven's Gate did.Raven's Gate is kinda like  Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children  meets  Percy Jackson
Everyone Matt gets close to has a bad habit of ending up dead and no one can seem to tell him about something called Raven's Gate - a mysterious place that is somehow tied to Matt's own psychic abilities.I listened to the audiobook version of this novel.
Think of every cliche you have ever imagined about black magic - tada you've just met the cast of bad guys from this book!
Lacking in originality or interest the bad guys are cookie cutter cardboard baddies with about as much oomph as an old B horror movie.
Αρκετά καλό μπορώ να πω. Στην μέση έχασα λίγο το ενδιαφέρον μου για την πλοκή αλλά στο τέλος ήτανε καλύτερα.
I was hooked from the start and I am definitely going to read the rest of the series.
I'm not a highly intellectual book critic getting paid millions to rifle through pages and publish my opinions (I wish) ...but it just didn't  feel  like it was...a feeling like...the thing is...feeling...resonate...words...yeah, nope I got nothing.Maybe it's just the fact that the characters are all 14 year olds and there's very little I can find to relate to them.
Also, there were some parts that we just boring but I think that's more my impatience to get on with the story than anything to do with the book.But Anthony Horowitz is a legend.
In Raven's Gate, orphan Matt Freeman and his 'friend' Kalvin break into a warehouse and are caught in the act, Matt is given the option of possible jail time (because the guard who catches them is stabbed) or the LEAF project which will place him in a home for fostering.
Only Jayne Deverill of a farm in Lesser Malling is strange and potentially more dangerous than any jail.
They say they are Matt's friends, but they in the end may only put him in more danger.Yet something is stirring at Lesser Malling's Ravens Gate, something only Matt may stop, or free.
Matt soon discovers that there's something sinister going on, & that if he's not careful he will end up as one of the latest casualties in the town of Lesser Malling.I really did enjoy this book, although there was one thing that sort of bugged me.
(The gripe is sort of spoilerish.) The book wasn't as well fleshed out as I'd like, but then this is only the first volume in the series.
Since each parent is different when it comes to this sort of thing, I recommend that the parents read the book first & then discuss the content with their child after they've finished reading it.
4.25 stars I really enjoyed this book.
I'll be continuing on with the series and I'm most hoping to see some character growth from our protagonist because this was the first book and there was a lot of build up, I feel like I didn't really get to know Matt as a character; most of his thoughts and dialogue were related to things happening around him which is why we didn't get to see him as himself.
I actually laughed out loud quite a few times in this book which is always a good thing.
خیلی برام جالبه، تم این کتاب و الکس رایدر از زمین تا آسمون متفاوت بود، ولی شخصیت هانقاط مشترک خیلی زیادی داشتن. مت تقریباالکس بود، با خصوصیات مشترک بسیار زیاد. احتمالا ریچار هم قراره جای جک رو بگیره.به نظرم دیگه تو فانتزی زیاده روی کرده بود...ولی هیجان ماجرا مث همه کتاباش قابل قبول بود. طوری که کتاب رو ول نکنی.
Horowitz borrows heavily both from older sci-fi/fantasy/horror works (Lovecraft and Stephen King, most noticeably) and mythology to create a world-within-a-world that in no way feels either new or particularly scary.
And if you have seen them, then this story becomes utterly predictable.Of course the entire village of Lesser Malling is part of the conspiracy and of course Matt can't get out without a special talisman.
And the way it was wrapped up really seemed far too contrived, convenient.I have to agree with a previous reviewer that the reporter, Richard, seemed like something straight out of Stephen King's _Salem's Lot_, but less believable.
I, however, will never get that answer being as I will not continue the series.My biggest question, though, was why the ritual for summoning the Old Ones at Raven's Gate - allegedly the first stone circle, thousands and thousands of years old, containing the purest ancient evil, of which the Christian devil and demons are but pale shadows - is a Black Mass, i.e. a perversion of a Christian ritual.In other words, why make it an anti-Christian ritual that summons up creatures older than time at circles older than Christianity?I'm betting there's not really an answer to this, and it just goes back to the "grab bag of horror cliches" thing, with no real rhyme or reason.Blech.Long story short - If you're planning on reading this book:
I felt like the first half of the book was spent setting the scene, with the protagonist, Matt, feeling bewildered by the unusual turns his life has taken.
As part of an alternative discipline program, he has been sent to live and work in the country with creepy Miss Deverill and her even creepier handyman, Noah.
When he tries to escape, all of the roads lead back to Miss Deverill's home.
In the process, dinosaur fossils come to life, a nuclear reactor explodes (or did it?), and orphan Matt may have found a new home.
Um livro que combina vários géneros, como o sobrenatural e o suspense. Não foi um livro que adorei mas li com entusiasmo, sendo que ficou muita, muita coisa por explicar, o que funciona como uma chamariz para termos mesmo de ler os próximos livros. Um leitura agradável, para quem gosta do sobrenatural mas sem nos apresentar nada de verdadeiramente original
Raven's Gate (The Gatekeepers, #1), Anthony Horowitz عنوان: دروازه ی کلاغ ؛ مجموعه قدرت پنج نگهبان - کتاب نخست؛ نویسنده: آنتونی هوروویتس؛ مترجم: گیتا گرکانی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1389، در 319 ص، شابک: 9786001820045؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 م
Pretty litty
I have just bought the whole series - will be reading them over the next few months.
And he knows it.He knew his parents were going to die even before it happened.
But you get the point.The book starts with Kelvin, Matt's friend suggesting they rob a warehouse.
Matt is initially reluctant, but then agrees as he fears he might lose his only friend.In the warehouse, Matt gets caught by the guard but Kelvin tries to buy more time for their escape by hurting the guard.
Matt is very unhappy about this and starts arguing with Kelvin.
Clearly, Jayne Deverill is not pleasant and Investigator Mallory sympathizes with him.A lot of weird things are going on in the village.
I moved on to Raven’s Gate at the time and loved it, but never finished the rest of the series.
I decided it was about time I finished the series, but, after reading Jo’s Letters to the Five, I realised I needed to re-read this because I had honestly forgotten everything about it.
I’ve never felt so creeped out when reading a book before.
Each time a solution seemed possible, I felt a sense of hopelessness knowing that something would stop it.Matt, mate, you’re braver than me.
What possessed me to read this book?Well, a couple years back i saw a couple of episodes of a series called Foyle's War.The screenwriter was (is) Horowitz.I was so impressed with it, that i took advantage of a Huge promotion to buy this book!*Facepalm*I now understand why it, and the following books are for sale at such low prices....Imagine a mesh of all the fantasy and horror clichés you've ever read or heard about...yes?That's what Raven's Gate is.Characters with no depth. A story less than
What possessed me to read this book?Well, a couple years back i saw a couple of episodes of a series called Foyle's War.The screenwriter was (is) Horowitz.I was so impressed with it, that i took advantage of a Huge promotion to buy this book!*Facepalm*I now understand why it, and the following books are for sale at such low prices....Imagine a mesh of all the fantasy and horror clichés you've ever read or heard about...yes?That's what Raven's Gate is.Characters with no depth.
AH: I loved these books when I was growing up and always wanted to write an epic fantasy series...but one set in the real world.
Anyway this aunt lives with her boyfriend and what the two of them really want is the money Matt's parents left him.And after they run through that they really have no use for him...so Matt begins to run with an, unfortunate friend.Thus we are launched into Matt's story that branches off into magic, horror and possibly the...DUH,DUH,DUH  END OF THE WORLD.Isn't it amazing how often the end of the world comes swinging around...apparently there are a plethora of heroes and heroines out there just waiting around to save us...Anyway you'll see scads of familiar plot devices and points here.
Also, even though he explains things from the previous books, when i decided to read the first three books i didn't feel like i was totally spoiled, i enjoyed each and every one of them because the plot is just so unexpected in every book.The story in this particular book, Raven's gate, takes place in London, where you get to know Matt, a normal kid who gets involved in some trouble and ends up arrested.
خب من به این کتاب یک امتیاز میدم چون زمان درستی نخوندمش، در واقع شاید اگر 5_6 سال پیش این کتابو میخوندم بهش 4 ستاره میدادم. و خب شاید تو کتابای دیگ داستان جذابیت بیشتری پیدا کنه که من نخواهم خوند.
I liked this one, but I must admit I was expecting something mind blowing, a bone chilling read.
Creepy things did happen, but all the way through the book I felt disconnected with everything that happened, it definitely wasn't John Saul or Stephen King bone chilling, not all.
The problem is that I couldn't get into the story, even though I liked the main character and I really wanted to know what happened.
I don't know how to put it into words, it just felt clinical, it was a a detached read for me.
But I admit the plot was intriguing and I really want to know what happens next.
Raven's Gate is book 1 in the series. This book reminded me a lot of Harry Potter as it is about an orphan whose parents died in a car crash. It was a nice quick read, although I found it difficult to get into the book at times.
Easy to read. Not for children.
After a judgement is passed Matt is left to the LEAF project and taken to a small town called Lesser Malling where he is fostered by Jayne Deverill a fifty year old queer woman.
Matt escapes but being caught again and betrayed and is summoned to the ritual where the village has fathered to bring tbe Old Ones back to Earth and they need three items :- Blood, Fire and Ritual.
They take Matt's blood and summon the old Ones.
Just before Chaos, the king of the Old Ones comes out Matt smeLos burning and his abilities are active.
So now he has a choice to either go to jail or stay with an old lady named Mrs. Deverill in a remote area called Lesser Malling because of the government's new law called the LEAF Project.
When coming back to the same spot, a guy named Tom Burgess appears and says he wants to help Matt out because this isn't a safe place to be.
Mrs. Deverill starts to come out more strongly and everyone that tries to help him get out of this creepy place just ends up dead.
