https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16809.Christopher_and_His_Kind
Christopher Isherwood wrote several books about his experiences in the 1930s, including his Berlin Stories.
The book has a definite "meta-" quality, in the sense that he uses "Christopher" to describe himself in the 1930s, "I" to describe himself in the present, and "Isherwood" to describe the narrator of Berlin Stories.
(I see other reviewers complaining this is weird and difficult to follow, but this wasn't my experience.)So what's the book about?Like any memoir, it focuses on the subject's day-to-day life: we see him interact with famous friends; move from place to place (he winds up in China at one point); react to historical events (Hitler, etc.); and write books, plays, and film scripts.
in all of the books of his i've read so far, you get a real sense of isherwood having lived each moment through what he could later write about it - placing himself as a character ('christopher') in his own autobiography is an extension of that.
to get the most out of this book, i think you have to read isherwood's earlier works - he goes into them in quite some detail, fleshing out the real people behind his eccentric cast of characters, and filling in the (gay) details left unsaid or subverted in his earlier fiction.
As such "Christopher and His Kind” also reflects the era in which it was written (the early 1970s) as gay liberation was gaining momentum whilst Isherwood was writing this book.I didn’t enjoy this book as much as I hoped or expected.
Overall though I was less captivated than I had hoped and expected.3/5Click here to read my review of "Mr Norris Changes Trains" by Christopher Isherwood
The first book that I picked up after completing the last course for my English M.A. program was one that had been hovering near the top of my to-read list for a long while: Isherwood’s elegant autumnal autobiography Christopher and His Kind.
Rather, I was constantly drawn to the formal quality of “rewriting”–of Isherwood very consciously revisiting events that had found their way into his autobiographical writing over the years, and then later attempting to set the record “straight” about them.
Wonderfully enough, being set “straight” in this situation entails being forthright about queer dimensions that had had to be necessarily encoded, deleted, or obscured.
So many things I loved about this book-1.
I had previously read "The Berlin Stories" and loved the way in which he described the "fictional" characters.
The main action of the book is Isherwood traveling with his lover all over the world for several years, avoiding the oncoming war with Germany.
If you know anything of Isherwood's biography, the last passage of the book will just kill you.
Especially if you ever get a chance to see the film "Chris and Don: A Love Story".
It sounds tiresome but it really works, and is even comprehensible to someone who hasn't read "The Berlin Stories." Because Nabokov lived, worked and set almost all of his Russian novels in 1920-30s Berlin, I'm accustomed to thinking of the city as his ground, but Isherwood made his own world of it, too.The cover of this edition is rather lame, a Herbert List photograph of a scrawny teen in tighty-whities, standing contrappasto in knee-deep water.
Now, I realize that publishers cannot issue a book by a gay writer without a homoerotic cover image, but come on: Herbert List has better pictures...and there's always August Sander if you want great images of German society at the time.
Isherwood fills my mind and heart with his intelligence, serenity and pure literate swooning (poising over young boys- excuse the pun, without being irritating or disgusting in the detail).
What I mean to say is this, for me, Isherwood, as with Wilde, Gibson (and other gay writers) fills my heart with this sense that, 'we are not alone'.Cliched, perhaps, but here's a few thoughts:1.
The topsellers among teenagers in recent years (The Hunger Games, Twilight etc.) have followed 'straight' relationships, rather than the rational, and oh-so-common notion that some of their readers may in fact be GAY.2.
Allow me to bitch my way towards praising Isherwood's memoir: it grated that he told it in the third person with a few retrospective first person observations; too much of it was an undisciplined diary dump, too much again a dull exposé of who, and, tediously, to what degree, his characters were based on real people. That said, there are too many wonderful stories here of 1930s gay and literary life for this not to be an enthusiastic pick.
(3.5 / 5)A fascinating view of Hitler's rise to power through the eyes of a group of friends, but Isherwood's style of narrating in both first and third person tends to distance you from it emotionally. Sometimes this is effective, but there are also times when it is to its detriment.
I was a bit baffled to see so many reviews here note that reading about the writing of The Berlin Stories was tedious, because I actually found Isherwood's reflective, sometimes nostalgic relationship to his own earlier writing endlessly fascinating, particularly in the sense of his comments about self-censoring and the ways in which he felt his sight about the situations he was narrating appears so limited in hindsight.
It's a fascinating (partial) autobiography - at times embarrassingly, almost painfully personal and honest - but what would you expect from a skilled writer recalling life in Berlin with several other bright young literary stars at one of the most fascinating periods of its history?The Christopher here is not the rather confused, bisexual and passive Christopher we know and love from Cabaret or the Berlin Novels.
The atmosphere and mores of contemporary Britain and America limited in some ways the plot of his novels but this tells a truer and often less flattering picture.
He wrote a novel and some short stories based on his experiences there.Middle-aged Christopher Isherwood wrote this book about young Christopher Isherwood, in the third person and gave details of what young Christopher was up to and how he came to write the stories.The style of talking about himself in the third person is rather off-putting until you get used to it, but it does work.
It is a very candid autobiography and includes details of his homosexual affairs and liaisons with teenage boys, which he could not have been quite as open about at the time (although he did not try to hide them from his friends and family).
Perhaps, after all, all this truth-telling is just the outlines of another "Christopher." Or not, if what Isherwood says is true, all the Christophers were ultimately the same man, and "the evasiveness is in the Narrator's nature, not in his name."Where to begin reviewing a book I've already read before in three different iterations?
The only "dramatic necessity" I see, is the necessity to prevent Israel's story from completely taking over the book.And: I wish I could remember what impression Jean Ross--the real-life original of Sally Bowles in Goodbye to Berlin--made on Christopher when they first met.
cada libro que leo de este hombre hace que se consolide más como mi autor favorito (y que le quiera más a él y a auden)
His love for his friends shines through despite the odd bitchy argument.He is much more interesting character here than in either of his fictional versions of the period (Mr Norris Changes Trains or Berlin Stories).
The recent adaptation for the BBC of Christopher And His Friends which used scenes from this and The Berlin Novels was very explicitly gay - more so than the book.
So all these versions go to show how acceptance has changed over the years.The truer versions of the characters sexuality also helps make the characters more rounded than the earlier books.
While this work is certainly speckled with important thoughts about pre-war gay life and vibrant recountings of the fear and anxiety that rifled much of the European continent in the 30s, it is weighed down by the oblivious bourgeois narcissism of, who would later become, one of Britain's foremost writers of the decade.Perhaps the most difficult part of the book is Isherwood's decision to give a third-person retelling - supposedly as a way to demarcate a distinction between his older self and his much younger (naive?) self.
Of course not, as long as I can have boys.
Why do I prefer boys?
And boys can be romantic.
I can put them into my myth and fall in love with them.Couldn't you get yourself excited by the shape of girls, too—if you worked hard at it?
And couldn't you invent another myth—to put girls into?
But I'll admit this—even if my nature were like theirs, I should still have to fight them, in one way or another.
If boys didn't exist, I should have to invent them.I wish I had the words this book deserves to have lavished upon it.
Enjoyable, but the third person while enabling Isherwood to take a self-deprecating tone does get distracting. It also dampens any insight into his creative process, even though I hate that term--Go away, mind mappy business types! Auden sounds like a riot; Heinz not so much. The diary of a kindly Weimar sex tourist.
Demmit, I do wish I didn't find biography, autobiography, and memoir so tedious. This frank memoir has its moments, but give me artful fiction any day and I'll be quite happy, thank you. It's a failing, I know, but the recounting of facts has never grabbed me as much as the unfolding of a good novel.
It offers insight into the changes in Germany in a most turbulent period, but one filled with art, life, hope and beauty; it glimpses the literary world of the Bloomsbury Group as it came towards the end of its focus; it provides an insight into how one of the Twentieth Century's great writers went about his craft and, of course, is an invaluable record of what it was to be a homosexual during this period, but taking in many different cultures and classes as Christopher moves around a variety of Countries.
When Isherwood wrote his classic books Mr Norris Changes Trains and Goodbye to Berlin, he positioned himself as a camera recording everything but revealing little or nothing about himself.
The decision was partly because it was illegal to be gay in the thirties but mainly because if he had been more honest, his story would have eclipsed his characters (or so he believed at the time).
Christopher and his kind is a memoir from the same period and gives us the back stage story and explains the liberties with truths behind these books and several others.
Having read the two Berlin novels quite recently I was a little bored.
A fascinating read!
The text is an appealing one for several reasons.An older Christopher Isherwood (seventy-two) writes about these ten years in the third person, as if this “Christopher Isherwood” is one of his fictional characters.
It is indeed a lovely way of using the third person: “Christopher” is Isherwood’s manifestation as a young man.
He will never again be quite like he is in 1928, age twenty-four, away from his home in England for the very first time, frozen in history, just like a fictional character.But Isherwood makes some startling admissions, one in particular concerning his feelings toward Heinz, a young man with whom he shares a life for five years, mostly in Berlin.
Some of it at least is my own failing - I'm awful at names, and the never-ending introduction of new friends and acquaintances had me flicking back through chapters more than once to remind myself who they were.
It's a slightly confusing style, and it took me several chapters to adjust to it.
Does that include us or doesn’t it?" ~That~ I could identify with, and made me wish we'd seen more of that Isherwood in this book.
Like Edmund White's A BOY'S OWN STORY, it focuses on all the most relatable aspects of growing up as a homosexual in order to involve the widest possible reader into the world of this gentleman.
This one, however, is a lot more politically-oriented (as well as being English rather than American) and less involved in the pain of growing up with a forbidden sexuality in a society that looks down on all those who are different and cannot control who they are.
This book has no interest in exploring that world.
It was fascinating to read an autobiographical account of what happened in novels.
It was interesting to read something written so many decades later when Isherwood was able to be frank about his sexuality and all the things he'd had to cover up in the past.
I didn't understand why he wasn't able to see himself in the past.
But there were many fascinating insights into culture, people and the writing process.
It was really interesting to see how the ideas for novels developed and what the collaboration processes were like.
SO IMPORTANT.The integration of quotes from his earlier autobiographical fiction, a third person narration of his experiences, and first person commentary on the two is genius.
When I read Goodbye to Berlin, I felt like it was totally soulless-- I Am a Camera etc.
It is unadorned in the same way as his fiction and is structured as an honest conversation with /reflection on self.Isherwood's description of his friendship with Auden and Spender was the most moving of all I have read by these three about these three, partly because it was most matter of fact.
And I really, really love the way in which they were friends.
On the whole enjoyable and another insight into the years leading up to the second world war, particularly in Britain and Europe, through the eyes of an unabashed homosexual.
This was pretty courageous/foolish, depending on your viewpoint, then.
It leads to all kinds of scrapes with officialdom and his need, frequently to keep on the move with his german lover and sometimes this is endearing and funny.In parts Isherwood is quite brutally honest, to his own detriment, particularly in his relations with his mother.
I found his alternating use of the third and first person in relation to himself very tiresome and even, on occasion, confusing.
Absolutely amazing. A genre in itself. Isherwood looks back at his younger self, telling the story in third person, but also commenting on it in first person, evaluating his then beliefs and analysing what the actual reasons were for his behaviour. He tells you the fascinating story of pre-WW2 Germany and liberal Berlin, how gays of the day lived and how he lived his life. If one disregards the story, event and narrative (which one really shouldn't do), it is just an amazing literary piece, which you feel privileged to be allowed to experience. Highly recommended!
The sort of book which makes you want to up sticks and swan around Europe. Well, apart from the Nazis. And the money/health worries. And keeping an eye on and dealing with hassels with the boyf. And the war zones. But apart from all that sounds wonderful! A great book to read, especially after the Berlin Novels and Down There on a Visit, to find out more about the real life people who inspired the characters.
