https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7445.The_Glass_Castle
In some ways, I think this book is the Great American Story, but it’s the story none of us talk about and all of us live.
I don’t know where the genders are on the space/time continuum of respecting each other, and I think there are probably gender-related specifics to any story (maybe that’s just natural and not even bad), but there is something about this book that is just human and strong.
I think a lot of this book is about how we know the people we are close to and, also, never really do – how it is useless to hold other people to our own standards of what love or responsibility looks like.
When she's writing about her youth, she writes with the rose-tinted glasses of a young girl who loves her family; as she grows, she begins to see the shadows of reality creeping in - her father's alcoholism, her mother's selfish behaviour, the lack of food in the cupboards as a parental failure and not a normality.
Normally, a convincing story has me feeling the same way as the narrator, but even though I could understand Walls's love for her parents, I despised them for being selfish and neglectful.
Update: I just read some place that a movie is being made of this book.
I wasn't much of a reader.My friend knew me well --knew about my childhood --and said ...."you 'will' read this book".Paul and I were leaving for Harbin Hot Springs --a regular -'get-a-way' place for us at the time.
What I 'didn't' say was ....."I then read another book, right away"!
(who just read the book and wrote a 5 star review)5 stars!!!I read this book sittng under a tree at Harbin Hot Springs one summer --Jeannette Walls became my hero!
In the book, this is nowhere more clearly evidenced than in the case of Walls' youngest sister, who spent the least amount of time in the presence of her parents dysfunction, and yet was finally the most crippled of all the children.Of course, I admit, I have a firmly-seated belief that the strongest and most creative of personalities are forged in fire; Maureen just didn't get burned enough to see the necessity of making a different life for herself.
And I guess that's one of the main things I came away with after reading this book.
This story is proof that there are books out there that can change the way you look at the world... Just waiting for you to give them a chance. Don't let them wait too long. You need them in your life.
(I am thinking of the American version, but I know there is a British one, too, that it is based on.) To me, that show could have been inspired by this memoir.
I am not sure that any of the stories lasted more than a few pages, but each one of them was interesting and important in its own way.I listened to the book and it was great because it was was read by the author.
I think that this is how all audio memoirs should be.
It was like she was saying, "here is my story, you decide how you want to be affected by it."I believe that most people will enjoy this book.
Walls begins the book by explaining what has prompted her to write about her family: after she has "made it" and become a successful writer living in New York, she comes across her mother picking trash out of a dumpster and, in shame, slinks down in her taxi seat and pretends not to see or know her.
Although she has always been her father's defender, Walls grows disillusioned with her father, eventually telling him he will never build the glass castle.Determined not to end up like her parents, Walls moves to New York, where the last third of the book transpires.
4.5/5This was really good! Difficult to read at times, but a marvellous book.
Otherwise your children might grow up to be super successful & you will end up eating trash off dark alleyways...Peculiar upbringings are what memoirs are made of!
When memoirs are like this, invigoratingly Roald Dahlesque in painting pictures of past predicaments...
No matter how bad you have it, someone somewhere sometime probably had it worse.The Walls children (3 of the 4, at least) become inspired by their nomadic parents, wanting to be so unlike their progenitors that they actually turn their lives around.
Here is testament of someone living way under the poverty level in modern times & getting out alive & a smarter woman for it.
(Probably on DVD.)
What I loved about this book is this: it presents her parents, with all their faults, and the poor mentality, at its worst, without anger, exasperation, or even really any judgment, just with the quirky love we all view our own childhoods.
It bothered me that they didn't think of their children's welfare above their own but used them like they would any other member of society.
But the past isn't a happy place to live.
And that's what a memoir should do: show us the past to affect the future, not to give us a place to live.
This book really made me angry--why can people who have absolutely no business having kids be able to have four?Let me backtrack...In the beginning, the Walls family is always on the run.
The family is barely able to scrape by; the father spends any money they have on alcohol, the kids barely eat, and all this time, the mother sits around, doing nothing but reading.
Later, when Jeannette suggests that her mother get a job and home with a wealthy family and take care of the kids, her mother says, "I've spent my whole life taking care of people!
Okay, I originally gave this one star but then had to go back and re-rate it to a two b/c I surprised a couple of you guys and in my impulsive way, I realized perhaps one star was a bit too knee jerk.It's not that I hated The Glass Castle, it's just that it irritated me with its self-conscious narrative style.
Karr's book is a jump off a cliff into a bravely realized memoir with enormous depth in the details, not to mention the writer's conflicted feelings about the meaning of father, of mother, of family, of self.
Instead, I present an anecdote.I read this in 2008 for my now-defunct neighborhood book club.
I wanted him to imagine what it would be like if his father came home one night and said "We have to move right now.
Then he shut up and started to read.
He never said too much about the book, though he liked the part where the rat would come to eat out of the mother's big bowl of sugar.
Huh, how 'bout that?And now, seven years later, my youngest son came home with the book he has to read for English class.
Wow. Firstly, thank you to my friend Elyse for recommending this book.
I have just finished reading this books last pages whilst making my lasagne to feed my family, hastily stirring the white sauce and throwing in the bay leaves.
I know what I'm like in my little world, there is no way I could be this giving, NO WAY!
It turns out all of her siblings had read it, making their own notes all over the book.
We aren't close geographically but I got to see her last month and talked about the book, and that I am grateful for.
Why is it that I hated this book when everyone else thinks it was good?
It annoyed me on so many levels.
I kept thinking to myself...."alright, I get it...life sucks, move on".
In fact, the reviews is why I kept reading it.
Walls whines and complains through the whole book about how difficult her childhood was, yet she was still able to be admitted to an IVY LEAGUE school.
Ok, my childhood wasn't as bad as hers, I am bright, yet I hadn't the je ne se quoi to get into an Ivy league.
It annoyed me.
Medical care was for sissies according to dad.
And according to mother “Fussing over children who cry only encourages them.”Both mom and dad were fantasists, and therefore good story-tellers.
And dad’s get-rich-quick ideas for gold-mining were sure to pay off just as soon as he could get the necessary capital together at the Las Vegas craps tables.Walls inherited her father’s story-telling gene.
She writes with wit and humour about a deplorable life with incompetent and psychotic parents.
The issue is not one of an acceptably eccentric alternative life style, or of an odd upbringing being overcome, or of children loving their parents in tough circumstances.
Walls’s wit and humour romanticize her life.
I know many people love this book, remarking on how powerful and moving it was, but I had some deep problems with the narrator's memory process, and some issues about what lessons I was ultimately supposed to learn here.
"Narcissists," he said, "have to be the biggest Victims in the room and the strongest Heroes in the room--and they demand to be recognized as both at the same time." My problem is, I found the narrator to be narcissistic, and I stopped believing her version of all the events, especially after I came across a few factual references that totally seemed incorrect based on my own experience and knowledge.
Book Review: The Glass Castle by Jeannette WallsJeannette Walls proves in her astounding memoir that bad parenting and abject poverty do not necessarily condemn children to a dismal future of the same.
In "The Glass Castle" published in 2005 by Scribner, Walls reveals the intimate details of her upbringing within a dysfunctional yet loving family.
Rex inspired the title of the book with the plans, lovingly worked out on paper, for his "glass castle" that he aspires to build some day.
But even amid these horrors of poverty and alcoholism, Jeannette Walls expresses the genuine love within her family.

“We take a chance from time to timeAnd put our necks out on the lineAnd you have broken every promise that we madeAnd I have loved you anyway” -- “Like a Fool” - Keira Knightley/ Lyrics - John Carney/“Begin Again” Soundtrack Dysfunction and crushing poverty are at the heart of this memoir, but love is there, as well. Readers might find it difficult to accept these things in the casual “this was my life” presentation, as though it had no effect on her, as though she is used to having others feel
-- “Like a Fool” - Keira Knightley/ Lyrics - John Carney/“Begin Again” Soundtrack Dysfunction and crushing poverty are at the heart of this memoir, but love is there, as well.
My father shared some of his stories with me about growing up poor in West Virginia, hours away from Welch, in another part of the state where there are also few economic options.
-- “Like a Fool” – Keira Knightley / Lyrics by John Carney / “Begin Again” SoundtrackRecommended
I LOVED this book!
I loved the family dynamics.
I actually had times where I felt envious of this nomadic carefree life that it had me rethinking my life of conventional suburban living.
I love a book that takes me out of my comfort zone and gives me a unique and different perspective on life.
Although the parents are incredibly flawed many times clearly negligent, you also believed they loved each other immensely.
What an admirable lady who deserves every success in life, she really is the definition of a rags to riches story and I loved every moment of this book.
Because of her matter-of-fact, non-whining writing, I enjoyed reading this book the entire time and actually put off other things so I could read more.
I think many of life's lessons could and should be learned at home, which means a loosening of the reins so that mistakes are still made while we are around to help as parents.
I had a couple friends that didn't like it, mostly because they couldn't get past things like her digging in trash cans at school because she was so hungry('People like that shouldn't be allowed to have kids' they said).
This is easily the best memoir I've ever read, and I absolutely could not put it down.Jeannette Walls shares the story of her childhood, growing up poor in Welch, West Virginia.
This is a gripping true story of laser-focused perseverance and hope.This is a story about people with major issues (in this case, the parents) doing (I guess) the best they're capable of, even though it's not nearly even close to being good enough for their children.This is a beautiful story of strength and survival -- having to raise yourself -- having to save yourself and your siblings.
This story is lovingly told, not hate-filled at all, which demonstrates how children can't help but love their parents, even when they're being failed by them.
Jeannette Walls’ The Glass Castle is a compelling memoir.
It’s no stretch to say Walls had an unconventional childhood.
Walls’ matter-of-fact tone makes an account of her childhood effective and keeps it focused on the events which both brought her family together as well as those which tore them apart.
She is not a victim in this memoir.
If she had gone that route, The Glass Castle would have been a completely different book.
Still, by the end of this memoir, the reader marvels at how Walls (as well as her siblings) escaped their parents while still maintaining a relationship with them.
These kids are fighters!I’m glad I read this memoir and that my real-life book club choose this for the month of November.
It’s one of the best memoirs that I’ve read and I loved how the author, Jeannette Walls had a sense of peace about her parents by the end of the book.
Not many people could manage this with the type of conditions that she lived in.The parents were terrible, selfish and I hated them by the end of this book.
Well done Walls' kids!The writing was well done in this memoir.
But my friend who knew my dislike of the book encouraged me to read it as but this time as a BOOKCLUB READ with the discussion questions in mind and perhaps I may get more from the book second time around.While reading this book I thought about my own family get-togethers and stories that would get told from our childhood days and while I remember very little to the point where I often asked " are ye sure I belong to the same family"?
Having her father take her hand and stick it through the bars of a cheetah cage at the zoo and being instructed by her mother to simply cut off the maggot-loaded portions of unrefrigerated food and eat the portion that had not yet been touched, Walls learned wonder and pragmatism from her oddball parents.This book is loaded with anecdotes, one after another, full of amazing and horrifying and beautiful moments.
She narrates the tale in real time, and as she becomes a teenager with more open eyes, her disappointment in these parents becomes palpable.One could say that this is a rags to riches story, but the treasure was always there - despite the poverty, they were rich in the love they had for each other.
A review on the back of my copy reads:Jeannette Walls has a story to tell, and tells it brilliantly, without an ounce of pity.No pity?
I felt cheated and unsafe throughout this entire read, as though Ms. Walls was allowed to be robotic and detached, but I was supposed to be delighted by the love she tried to sell as the basis of this memoir.
Like the love her father expressed as he tried to sell her young body to a stranger?
Like the love her mother conveyed by allowing them to live in filth, be homeless, be neglected, hungry, unclothed and so on?
MARCH 2017 UPDATE: There will be a film starring Brie Larson as Ms. Walls, Naomi Watts as her mother, and Woody Harrellson as her father, released at some as-yet unnannounced date in 2017.Rating: 4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: The Glass Castle is a remarkable memoir of resilience and redemption, and a revelatory look into a family at once deeply dysfunctional and uniquely vibrant.
I wanna be sure I never set an eyeball on it." That got a laugh, and he held up The Glass Castle and said it was sort of the story of his life.We talked for four hours that day.
An utterly fascinating look into the lives of two narcissists who neglect their children in order to serve their own ends. No rules, life is an adventure. Rationalization - where would we be without it? Reads like fiction. My interest never wavered.
