https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498482.The_Problem_of_the_Green_Capsule
This is an excellent mystery with a wonderfully shrewd plot and keeps the reader engaged throughout. Dr. Gideon Fell, with his several chins and gargantuan presence is easily one of the most endearing sleuths ever created and he is in top form here. If you will ever read only one book featuring Dr. Fell, then I may not recommend this one, but I will recommend it in all other cases.
Hercule Poirot's Christmas, The Second Gong and this one, are the best examples of what a cozy murder mystery is like. Ideally suited to be a tightly knit play with the actors continuously challenging the reader to see beyond what is apparent. And thankfully none of Carr's habit of distracting readers with obscure passages. Love it!
And, as he later writes in a letter to Dr. Gideon Fell, "Show them a black-and-white record of it aferwards, and they will believe you; but even then they will be unable to interpret correctly what they see."This subject has long been a hobby-horse of his, but the latest lecture has been brought on by an incidence of poisoning his home village.
The police are at a loss to find evidence enough to capture the culprit and suspicion falls upon Chesney's niece and heir Marjorie.In order to prove his point and, as we later find out, to show how Chesney believes the poisoning to have been accomplished, the doctor arranges for a demonstration to be performed in his own home.
Carr on top form with this one.He sometimes over does the red herrings and possible suspects but this one is pitched just right.Not a locked room mystery as such this time,rather a murder committed in front of several watching witnesses and filmed at the same time!Highly recommended.
One of the best whodunit ever written.
Instead, I prefer those, in which clues are dropped like bread crumbs all along the plot.
May be that's what triggered me to google his best ten books, and "The problem of the green capsule" had fantastic reviews associated with it.The author throws a challenge at the reader to find the murderer alongside the detective, Dr Gideon Fell.
Marcus Chesney, uncle of Marjorie, conducts an experiment to prove how the chocolates were poisoned.
To our surprise, the experiment turns fatal when a figure in the black spectacles gives him a poisoned capsule instead of a harmless one.
For the first half or just under, we follow Elliot sent to help out a local constabulary figure out a who could be the poisoner who has killed several children and injured one.
This is truly a case where you need to pay close attention not just to what people say they saw “during the murder” but also their reactions to things said by others.
It seems the man who is killed, has figured out the method that the poisoned chocolates were placed.When Dr. Fell is pulled in he senses who done it, but needs to sift through the how it was done etc...
Thoroughly enjoyed this mystery which, though not a locked room, falls happily into the impossible crime sub-genre.
There are two instances of poisoning that take place in this novel which may, or may not, be linked.
The second takes place when a man organizes a demonstration of how he believes that first crime may have been committed, swallowing a pill during the performance administered by a disguised figure and ending up dead himself at the demonstration's conclusion.As with most examples of this sub-genre we have to accept that the crime will be incredibly improbable and yet it is utterly logical in its execution.

Five people are in a room. Two act out a play, watched by the other three. One of these actors is found bashed senseless. Then the play's costar dies of poisoning. The only people who could have done these deeds are these five, yet each can alibi the other. Especially the three audience members, since they're on film. John Dickson Carr, master of the locked room mystery, comes up with another romp. Dr. Gideon Fell must make sense of all the nefarious deeds, including the poisoning of children.Despite this grimness, there are some marvelous, dryly comic scenes.
Masterly but inorganic as a result of man-made intrigues. Terrific pacing, but with intuited villainy and badly repressed feelings of the layman that make it seem like Hollywood-ish nostalgia of the 1930s.Still, fun like sin...
Classic Carr and classic Fell. One of the better ones, in fact.
Un vero orologio svizzero. Da non perdere per gli amanti di Gideon Fell.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
This is a Dr. Gideon Fell mystery, which right away tells you that it is a locked-room mystery.
Nobody can figure out how the candies were poisoned, it just didn’t seem possible.
Although there is no solid proof of her being the poisoner, the villagers have all taken against her, and she can no longer show her face.
After a while, Dr. Chesney offers to show proof of how the chocolates were poisoned.
Then, a tall mufflered figure wearing a top hat comes in through the garden doors and puts a capsule in the Dr.’s mouth.
Who was the poisoner, since none of the principal suspects left the room.
A wealthy peach-grower is obsessed with demonstrating this fact—especially to one of his neighbors, a know-it-all psychologist—and so he sets up an elaborate demonstration, and even films it: not realizing that he is handing his murderer the perfect opportunity to knock him off with cyanide.Dr. Fell likes to lecture in each book; in this one it’s about the history and psychology of mass poisoners, since in this book, before Marcus Chesley is murdered, a group of random children in an English village are poisoned with candies from a sweet shop: and one of them even dies.
Eye-witnesses are unreliable.Marcus Chesney set up a test to demonstrate this where nothing was as it seemed.But, alas, things were not as they seemed to Marcus Chesney either, and it cost him his life.It takes Gideon Fell to unravel this web of delusion and illusion upon illusion.Another classic John Dickson Carr puzzler.
En primer lugar, gracias Borges y Bioy Casares por El Séptimo Círculo, cada obra que recopilaron me deja satisfecha.Ahora sí: disfruté mucho este libro. No es una obra maestra pero a quien le gusta la novela policial tradicional, le resultará entretenido, agradable y enrevesado. Es una buena lectura para un fin de semana sin nada que hacer.
This book caught me from the first few pages and didn't let me go until the end. In mysteries, I usually enjoy the process more than finding out who did it, and the author was brilliant in keeping me on the edge of my seat.
An ingenious mystery: a killing is not only witnessed, but filmed, yet those present cannot agree on what happened. Gideon Fell has to outwit not only the murderer, but also his victim, in order to uncover the truth. An entertaining outing for impossible mystery fans.
Very interesting setting for a locked-room murder mystery. A murder actually filmed and no one can figure it out! Despite that it wasn't one of Carr's best. Don't believe anything that's said. Clues in the minute details. Beware of red herrings!
An interesting premise that simply flounders.More here:http://inkquilletc.blogspot.in/2014/1...
Classic crime from one of the authors of the golden age. Another brain twister from the locked room master.
read SOMETIME in 2008; don't remember plot so no rating given
Good JDC mystery, but perhaps a little hackneyed in its portrayal of women...
predictable
golden age mystery at its finest
Un eccellente romanzo di Carr.Ovvero come il dotto Fell possa riuscire a dimostrare che un assassino può essere nello stesso istante in due luoghi diversi.
well crafted with excellent characterization; will re-read
A tour-de-force of intricate plotting and misdirection--the classical whodunit at its best.
