https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222366.Star_Man_s_Son_2250_A_D
Let's get one thing right out of the way - this is not high literature.
If you're looking for a golden age scifi post-apocalyptic book that fills your need for post-atomic mutants and radiation porn, it's adequate to the task.That said, this is one of the earliest examples of post-nuclear holocaust fiction.
One can see how other books, movies, and even games dipped deeply into this work.
I'm not sure how many people would have read the book at that time, but it had to have come as a revelation to some readers back then.
I read this is 7th grade, then re-read it in high school.
I love futuristic, after-the-nuclear-holocaust tales, and who couldn't get into scenes of long-deserted, half-destroyed cities being explored by a boy and his big cat?
;-} Humans are now tribal, hunt with spears, etc., and there are intense battles with nasty, violent creatures who slink through the cities, but my favorite scene was the one in which we see the childlike joy experienced by Fors when he discovers an amazing modern invention -- colored pencils.
Enjoyable to read, but sad when you think about all the things our society would be throwing away if a world war went nuclear.
The thing about reading so-called "Golden Age" science fiction (or at least Silver Age) is you always have to remember that the stories were written in a different time.
Star Man's Son is a post-apocalypse story written by an inexperienced novelist in the early 1950's.
By the early 50's it was apparent to all, but the most obtuse, that changes were coming between black and white in the United States.
I see Star Man's Son as both a plea for peace among Humanity as well as a plea for peace and understanding between the different racial groups.This is not a great novel.
It was just camouflaged as a science fiction/post-apocalypse adventure novel.
One of the few science fiction books around the house when I was younger.
Probably the one book that hooked me on SF.
Andre Norton is better known for more recent fantasy, and her rocket and ray guns books of the fifties and sixties, but this one is apocalyptic SF.
It had a big influence on me, as you can imagine.
Other of her works were a little disappointing, after re-reading them three decades later.
I would like to read this one again.
If the only Andre Norton book you have ever read was 'Return to Quag Keep,' then check this one out.
This was the first book I ever bought for myself, with my own money. It made me a fan of Andre Norton and started me reading science fiction and fantasy. In short, it was my gateway drug to adventure. Thank you, Ms. Norton.
I had been looking for this title for 10 years. Until I came to goodreads, I had been rebuffed in my search for the title because I could not remember if it was 2025 or not. By digging, Andre Norton's name came up, and I remembered. This was one of the books that really made me think about the aftermath of our egos, nuclear war, and survivors.
The first novel I ever read, in about 6th grade. Probably the cause of my lifelong love of the post-apocalyptic genre.Certainly a good read for its target audience, the 10-14 year old.
Norton's writing is a solid example of a traditional, classic novel from the Golden Age of science fiction, with somewhat lofty and descriptive overtones, but modern readers used to more decisive plots and immediate action will most likely find it difficult to get through.The story is written in much of an epic styles, where the hero Fors risks becoming an outlaw so he can make a name for himself to prove he belongs in his clan despite his mutant genes.
The first book I ever purchased and read, cover to cover.A real accomplishment for a 2nd grader in the 60's. I loved the story because it reflected my own.
A favorite scifi coming-of-age novel from my middle school years.
While I enjoyed this older book, I found the ending grossly insufficient. All this build up and then suddenly everything is hunky dory and somewhat predictable. I did enjoy the mutant aspect of the story. This story was originally written in the 50's when the treat of nuclear war was real and the mutagenic fear of radiation was always present. This book is a testament to those fearful times.
adventure tale- placed in the future and dealing with the plains people, mountain people and Beast Things which inhabited the earth as survivors of the great atomic Blow Up caused by the sins of the "Old Ones."" ...
Unfortunately the prejudice ridden mountain peoples refuse to accept a boy whose mother was a plains woman.
adventures with old ruins, radiation clouds, with the horrible Beast Things who have deviated from human physical characteristics through two hundred years of radiation-permeated heredity, follow Fors' decision to leave his people Pub Date: Aug. 21st, 1952
If I were to wish to introduce a teenager to the genre of post-apocalyptic science fiction, I can think of no better novel to hand him or her than this.
This book is also Andre Norton's first science fiction novel, her earliest determined effort to write for this genre.
Technically speaking, it's also a young adult novel, but can be enjoyed by readers of any age.
The only thing keeping it from five stars is that there is more writing than the plot can justify, so there are some slow parts that make a reader count the pages until the book is done.
Rereading this, I'm struck by two things. Andre Norton was no racist. And Andre Norton was a racist.It's impressive that Norton had the nerve to be able to write “And color of skin, or eyes, or the customs of a man’s tribe must mean no more to strangers when meeting than the dust they wash from their hands before they take meat.”   Brave words for 1940's America, when such words could have got her into serious trouble.   But then she ruins the entire sentiment by just transferring all prejudice
Rereading this, I'm struck by two things.
Andre Norton was no racist.
And Andre Norton was a racist.It's impressive that Norton had the nerve to be able to write “And color of skin, or eyes, or the customs of a man’s tribe must mean no more to strangers when meeting than the dust they wash from their hands before they take meat.”
Brave words for 1940's America, when such words could have got her into serious trouble.
But then she ruins the entire sentiment by just transferring all prejudice for appearance or custom to the Beast Things, who are supposedly also of human—but mutated—origin.
This was my first science fiction book, read many years ago. I reread it last year and found it just as exciting and entertaining. I was still captured by the characters and their adventures and triumphs and highly recommend this book and author to anyone with an imagination and curious mind
Originally published as "Starman's Son" this book was one of the first that Norton published and started her amazing arc of at least one book a year for over 50 years.
She had no books published in 2003, then had a new book published in 2004 and 2005.
The 2005 book was published just before her death on St. Patrick's Day. Since her death she has had several new books published that were in the pipeline before her death.
Also her past catalog of titles is being re-released gradually which will, hopefully introduce a new generation to her view of the future.
Good solid SiFi story. Norton's Early SiFi stories always gives you a good easy read. Recommended

Just not a very good book.
It's total pulp, and for all the interesting world-building, the characterization is pretty flat.
It's also supremely irritating to read a book by a woman that has basically no women in it.
Sure, it's a hero's journey and he's a male, which is totally fine, and I don't want random women thrown into the mix, but when the lead disrespects a powerful female chieftain and then gives his loyalty to a small, pretty girl instead - ugh.
Still, I enjoyed the post nuclear war landscape, the stratification, the rediscovery, the making of friends.


In this futuristic, post apocalytic world, Star Men are the cartographers, explorers and adventurers. Fors, son of a Star Man, hopes to be chosen himself. Unfortunately, the elders don't think he's fit to be a Star Man. He sets out on his own with only his giant cat, Lyra, for company, to explore the dangers of the long abandoned city.Andre Norton was one of the best science fiction/ fantasy writers of all time. Star Man's Son, though targeting a young adult audience, is excellent for adults as well.
I read this in the 60's and was hooked on SF&F forever. The world is believable and Ms Norton weaves characters, worlds and events effortlessly. I still have the original paperback on my shelf and turned my kids on to SF&F by introducing them to this book...
This was my first post-apocalyptic novel to read. The visuals and the characterization were true to form: engaging and entertaining.
Read this in the 1970s--still think about it sometimes. GREAT book. Loved the main character's relationship with the cat--a mutant telepathic Siamese as large as a panther.
Of course there was no sympathy for the sub-human Beast Things, descendants of humanity that they were.All in all a fun adventure and coming of age story set in a still far flung and still sadly believe future.And if you have this copy do take the time to read the book catalog in the back!
Some incredible authors there who's latest book you can have for a mere 60 cents.
Plus 10 cents for shipping!
Gosh, The Left Hand of Darkness and Dune were a whole 95 cents apiece!p.s. This book is probably also the reason I've always had feline companions.
I can't remember where I got this paperback edition, it may have been one of several Norton books I found at a bus stop I first read it as "Star Man's Son" in 3rd grade, and as I remember it, I convinced the teacher to read it to the class. I think that was something he did, read a student's suggested book out loud. This was probably the first science fiction book I ever read, I guess.
I would have appreciated this book more if Norton hadn't fallen back on her old standby--people who don't count, and can be murdered, tortured, etc with no moral stain on the killer.
The only real difference, so far as I can see, is that the Beast Things don't smell good to others--a common basis for mass murder in Norton's books.
The cover of the edition I have (which says, btw, that it's a 1952 edition) has an inaccurate picture of Lura.
The text clearly says that she has Siamese cat markings, though she's greatly increased in size from her housecat ancestors.
Despite the grim subject in the aftermath of a terrible war, Andre Norton always had a certain gentleness in her writing about these matters that made her books both easily accessible and powerful in their message, especially to a seventh grader like myself who had just lived through the Cuban missile crisis.
I would classify this book is a "soft post-apocalypse" novel, which imagines the world that, even after nuclear war, is still relatively intact and unpoisoned - as opposed to a"hard post-apocalypse" novel like "Swan Song".
A fun read with an admirable message about the necessity of cooperation among all peoples if we are to avoid destruction.
It's interesting that humanity requires a common enemy, the Beast Things, in order to unite it.
This displays a realistic understanding of human psychology that is undermined to some extent by an ending in which everything is wrapped up a bit too tidily.
There is a problem with pacing--the most exciting scenes occur in the middle of the story.
Also, the Beast Things just never seemed like a particularly menacing presence outside of the abandoned cities which were their lairs.
