https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2144702.The_Inn_of_the_Sixth_Happiness
I read this book when I was about ten years old.
My grandmother was a missionary in India andshe used to give me 'improving' books to read - this being one of them.
Luckily my grandmother had extremely good taste in literature and every 'improving' book she gave me was also immensely readable as this one is.
As am I - her story is an inspiration to anyone who may feel that they are too small or insignificant to make a difference in the world.
Maybe we can't all make such heroic differences but we can all make a positive contribution in some way.
My childhood hero was this obscure missionary who gave her whole life for the people of a rural Chinese province. She was too poor and under-educated to qualify for the mission society, so she purchased a train ticket and road across Europe, Russia, Manchuria (during a border war), and into north-western China. She stopped when her money ran out and opened an inn in the small town where she got off the train. She stopped battles in prison, inspected little girls feet to prevent foot-binding and mostly shared the gospel with any who would listen.
But she felt called by God to become a missionary in China, and even though no established organization would consider her application she was determined to fulfill God’s wish.
She heard of a lone woman, Mrs Lawson, working in a remote area of China who hoped to be able to pass along her work to a younger woman.
So Gladys saved the fare for a third-class passage on the Trans-Siberia Express, and set out for China trusting that God would show her the way.
Gladys, herself, never saw the film and didn’t understand why anyone would be interested in her life.
Whenever I feel hard done by I re-read this book and I am rewarded with new courage.
This is the story of a tiny framed , humble house maid who was inspired to save her meagre pennies to pay for a ticket from London to China because she was rejected by a Missionary school who said she was too stupid to learn the bible.
Her 30 years in the most remote part of China amongst people who initially spat at her for being a white 'Ghost' is compelling reading.
I heartily recommend everyone to read about this real heroine and her true story.
I had watched the movie "Inn of the Sixth Happiness win Ingrid Bergman years and years ago and it was wonderful to be reunited with this truly remarkable woman.She is truly an inspiration - showing how persistence and not letting anything get in your way will get you your hearts desire.
Everything about this story is remarkable: the book I just read, The movie I saw so many years ago and of course the incredible woman who inspired it all.
It's an amazing true story of Gladys Aylward who gave up her life to travel to China to be a missionary.
And she did it alone, traveling dangerously by train through Siberia, without knowing the language and with very little money.
Although the book was a little slow about halfway through (which was why I put it down for a few months & finally picked it back up again), there were several moments throughout the book that made it worth reading.
I'm amazed at Gladys Aylward's courage.
In war-torn China, she took charge in situations that I would have run from.
I think there was a reason she was drawn to China.
She showed true strength and character.
Undaunted when turned down as "unqualified" by the missionary society, she saved up the money on her meagre salary for the long train trip across Russia and Manchuria, which was very dangerous in its own right.
Once in China, she finds her way to an obscure northern city and begins a remarkable "career" which, honestly, no one could ever have been considered qualified for.
Through sheer determination, serving the poor, and following her sense of right, she becomes highly influential in the local community.
And she is that someone.A remarkable true story which is inspirational, uplifting, and deserves to be known better.
Told by a mission board that she didn’t know enough theology and was too old to learn Chinese properly, she saved up her own money, took a train overland to China through Russia, escaped a bad situation in Russia by boat to Japan, and finally wound up in a remote area, helping an elderly widow missionary in a town that hated foreigners.
In spite of her total lack of official preparation, Aylward not only learned Chinese, but became a Chinese citizen and had an astounding and profound impact on the area of China where she served.
What an amazing person Gladys Aylward was - how come she's not better known, or is it just me?
I must have bought this because I know the Ingrid Bergman movie "The Inn of the Sixth Happiness", but I'd forgotten all about it.
It re-emerged with packing for moving house and I finally read it.
I don't think I was aware then the story was based on fact.
It must have been quite confusing in its first edition but luckily, my copy is a third edition and comes with two postscripts that update the story and give some insight into the creation of the book.
If you wanted something like Into the Wild, someone bravely trekking into unknown territory and trying to mean something to the people they meet, this is a bunch of B.S. It reads mainly like a hobbit woman lugged a suitcase full of Christian bigotry into inner China.
I mean, I do have respect for her, but I think a different author would have done her better justice instead of making her sound like a woman who thinks she can solve a war by scolding both sides and then settling them down for tea and scones.
I will just say this is my favorite book! My dad gave it to me when I was 9 and it was the first time I ever remember being inspired to live all my life for God, knowing His love in a radical way, and living a life of adventure with God no matter where He would call. I even wrote my graduation speech on Gladys Aylward's life :) god used this humble, willing, fearless woman in mighty ways! I can't wait to talk with her in heaven one day
This is the true story of a lady missionary who goes to China and teaches herself Chinese. She's got a lot of grit, especially when China enters a war with Japan and she has to take care of the orphans in her care and transport them away from the war zone. The movie "Inn of the Sixth Happiness" came from this book--and the book was great.
Amazing life of Gladys Aylward, a missionary in China. She braved unspeakable hardships. Her commitment to teach the Chinese people about Christ was remarkable and shamed me.
Lawson died due to injuries after a fall in the mountains and Aylward continued their work of telling stories from the Bible to the mule drivers who worked the mountain trails.It was also during this time that she managed to come to the attention of the Mandarin of the region and get a job that no one else desired - foot inspector which was to make sure that the doctrine of no new foot-binding was carried out.
Provided the coal train that transported them nearly 30 miles closer to their destination.The book ends with Aylward working in England after being sent there for surgery on the injuries received from an encounter with the Japanese army.
With only a referral to an older missionary Jeannie Lawson in Yangcheng, she managed to eventually reach China, having escaped Russian detainment, with the help of a Japanese ship.
Every opportunity that came her way she took, to travel, learn the language, teach and preach, assist the local government Mandarin in quelling a violent prison riot and eventually provide intelligence about the Japanese martial invasion.
They gave her a Chinese name that approximates "the Virtuous One." Long before the official outbreak of World War II she was living in a war zone of Japanese invasion.
It is this book, The Small Woman by Alan Burgess, published in 1957.The film portrayed Aylward as an utterly fearless, faith-filled and dutiful Englishwoman (view spoiler)[who went to China as a missionary, ran an inn for muleteers, took in orphans, fell in love with a Chinese officer, and then led 100 orphan children across the mountains to safety from the invading Japanese forces (hide spoiler)].
After reading the book, I have to say it goes a lot more in depth on Gladys's story (as books tend to do).
But the book humanizes her a lot more.
I read the book because I really liked the move, "Inn of the Sixth Happiness" with Ingrid Bergman.
The movie was loosely based on the book.
The book was outstanding and inspiring.
It was amazing to read about what Gladys Alyward accomplished during those turbulent times in China.
After reading the book I did some research and was saddened to find on a blog that these events are virtually forgotten in China.
A person traveled to China to see the places where Gladys Alyward lived, worked and traveled.
The town does not commemorate Gladys or the film based on her life.
An amazing story of what one young woman can do when she feels called to a different path. Gladys Aylward made her way to China to become a missionary. She assisting another woman until she learned the language and was able to serve throughout China. She earned the respect of all sorts of officials and religious leaders. She followed God's lead and led many to Christianity and also to safety during the Japanese invasion.
I read this after I had seen the film, and then used it for a book report in high school. It is one of the most memorable books I have ever read. Not only is it a compelling slice of history, but a fascinating portrait of an amazing woman.
I've been a fan of aylward for many years, but I found much to love in this biography of God's hand at work in the life of an unlikely servant. Because it is written by a man who actually knew Gladys, there are details I'd never considered. highly recommend.
Quite a beautiful story. It was sad and difficult, but I enjoyed it just the same! I didn't know what I would think when my friend suggested it to me, but it is a wonderful story of how the Lord is always with us!
This book was recommended by my mother'n'law and it was excellent. It is the story of the missionary to China, Gladys Alward during the time of the Japanese invasion and it is amazing what that woman went through and how many children she saved. The writing was good also!
A really good true story told in a very well written and interesting way. This woman was remarkable and did incredible things through shear determination and will power. Part of her strength was that she just assumed something could be done and then she did it. Wonderful!
This book is so inspiring while also demonstrating what someone can do with the power of God.
Every Christian should read this book!
Must-read. You will love it, so inspiring.
A powerful story that captured my imagination and let you into this courageous woman's journey into a dangerous world of conflict, pain and selfless dedication to others. I would definitely recommend this book.
Burgess had met Gladys Aylward in 1949 and, according to him, she told him her story.
She knew not a word in Chinese and by the time she went back to England “she spoke, thought and dreamt in Shansi dialect.” Her faith was the kind that moved mountains, and on many an occasion reading her narrow escapes I had to admit that a miracle had been operated.
Both Burgess and Miss Aylward recognized the evils of communism, so it is a pity this book is not in the reading lists of schools.
Very well written account of Gladys Aylward's missionary work in China preceding WWII, during the Japanese invasion. This book was the basis for the Ingrid Bergman film "Inn of the Sixth Happiness," but there is so much more in the book than the incidents the film uses!
Rather than accepting defeat, she worked and saved her money until she could afford a train ticket to China and set out on dangerous journey, through warring countries to make it to China where she worked with an elderly missionary to establish the Inn of the Eighth Happiness.
It was fascinating to see Gladys's determination be a missionary and some of the impressive work that she did, which ranged from calming a prison riot to working at the foot inspector in charge of making families unbind their daughters' feet.
