https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29608.The_Codebreakers
It would not require much wit for the Americans to surmise that England might also be supervising the code telegrams of another neutral: the United States, which, like Sweden, was working as a messenger boy for the Germans and had, in fact, transmitted this very message.
And so it came about that Room 40’s solution of an enemy message helped propel the United States into the First World War, enabling the Allies to win, and into world leadership, with all that that has entailed.
Blank paper, often sent from the United States to relatives in paper-short countries, was similarly replaced from a paper bank to obviate secret-ink transmissions.
The definitive book on the history of cryptography. Although even with this revised edition, the modern cryptography is clearly not the focus of this book, Bruce Schneier is probabbly better for this. If you are looking for a different view on several historical events, one focused on cryptography, this book is for you.Awesome barely described it for me. I read a cut-down translated version of the 1967 edition and reading this revised version was like rediscovering the book itself.
914), followed by a list of half a dozen 'plagiarisms' from that work in the Bible, to innumerable other, similar digs, including a discourse on communication with space aliens (according to the author, unfamiliar with Fermi, they're DEFINITELY out there) which have no place in an ostensibly scholarly work on a completely unrelated subject.Minus one star for both of the above, and dated and becoming more so (nothing on modern ciphers or their inventors, except for a brief mention of Rivest, Shamir, and Adleman in one sentence on p.
Two if you're interested in the cryptography or modern ciphers.
It also clarified the distinction between a "code" and a "cipher", which i f you are like me, you probably thought were the same thing.Because of it's comprehensiveness and length, it's a somewhat "daunting" book to start, but the author knows his topic, writes well, and includes lots of interesting samples and uses of both codes and ciphers.There is another similarly-titled book that was first published only a decade ago (versus several wars) which may cover much of the same ground, but in less depth.
It goes pretty well into depth with how it describes ancient codes and ciphers, how new ones were made and how they were then broken.It doesn't cover internet security or anything, since this edition of this book was published in 1967.
So it is still in the midst of the Cold War. Interestingly, most code breaking was done by linguists and language experts, but that eventually turned into mathematicians.It doesn't talk about Alan Turing, since at the time of this book being published, it was classified, or at least I think it was.Anyway, a wonderful tome on how people tried to keep their messages secret.
This book is a must read for describing the evolution of secret intelligence gathering and codebreaking in practice throughout the world. The art form of applying cryptology, and its counter part cyber security is carefully and simply explained.A true classic in the field. Endorsed by thousands of professionals. Over eleven hundred pages of brilliant writings
Read sample only. Very interesting, but 1200 pages is too much for right now
A wonderful insight on cryptanalysis and its influence on human history, especially during World Wars. An interesting siurce of trivia on hidden side of political decisionmaking
My college cryptography class wasn't this good. It dives deep yet remains compelling.
This is not an accident.* No one is going to attempt a detailed history of cryptology (notice the different word) like this for a very long time.
Although I'm sure parts of it need updating as archaeology and historians break new ground, that's going to be a job few will be up for.
We know a lot more about WW2 cryptology for instance, and the updated version which I own doesn't even scratch the surface of modern cryptology.
Historical cryptology is a far more difficult nut to crack.* Kahn pays attention to the needs of the cryptographer, not simply the technique or technology.
The analyses of codes started at time immemorial.
Solving ciphers is a mix of sweat and inspiration; creating them a remarkable affirmation of human ingenuity.
Code breaking involves both deductive and inductive reasoning, starting with analysis, hypothesis, prediction and finally ending in verification or refutation.The book is an interesting mix of both history and technique The book is a treatise and at 1000 pages covers some of everything.The Notes section is as additional 200 pages and I confess to skipping over large sections not because they were inherently less interesting but I do have a life!
At times boring, at times fascinating, it gives an in depth look at codes and code breaking through history.
The book was published in the 1960s so the WWII coverage is lacking especially in regards to Ultra (this may have been corrected in a later edition) and the latest chapters chronologically, especially the one on the NSA should be 10 pages long, not the 30-40 that they are.
The last few chapters are not specifically about code breaking, covering among other things translations of lost languages and code breaking in literature.
There is some weaving between storytelling and record keeping in this compendium that makes some of it harder to read, but it is packed full of fascinating stories, cryptography, and characters.
The end is rushed compared to the rest, and the declaration that cryptography has come to close with RSA and other public key encryption uncharacteristically rash.
These are small flaws in a tremendous undertaking that I've not seen the likes of on other subjects.The kindle edition is readable but could be much improved.
The illustrations can't be examined closely enough (on the e-ink kindle at least), which is disappointing.
This book contains some fascinating material.
The opeining chapter is particularly gripping, dealing with the decryption of the Japanese diplomatic service's codes and ciphers during the run up to Pearl Harbor.
The main plotline of the book follows the development of cryptology from antiquity up to the mid 1950's.
The parts of this covering about 1300-1940 are very good.
The last few chapters are very dated as well.
Additionally, Kahn takes a number of excursions from the main sequence of the book, most of which are distracting.In all, a good (expensive) book, but one to be read a bit selectively.
It's really dated by now, there's a lot of stuff that has shown in the meantime, and some parts of the history are almost glossed over (for example, there's just a small bit about Alan Turing, which is unexcusable).
There's also a big problem with the flow of the book, as the same period is repeated again later, and not from an entirely different point of view, e.g. it would've been a lot better for the book to have a fully linear time line.The chapter on the Russian cryptography is also very bad and needs a good update.
The chapter on the NSA also needs a lot of updates, and half of the time it sounds like an advertisement for them.
An update was added, I believe in the 90's, that discusses the entry of cryptography into the public sphere, largely because of the Internet, but this new section is short, comprising less than twenty pages.
Information concerning British and American decoding of German and Japanese communication during World War II that has been declassified since the original edition has not been added.
Despite all these drawbacks, this is still the best history of codes and code breaking available.
The explanations of the generation of codes and the methodologies used to break them have still not been equaled in other texts.
I spent a whole summer reading this book when I was laid up in bed with a bum ankle and a heating pad.
Besides telling more than I ever thought there was to know about the history of secret communications, it also taught me a lesson on how to write something both scholarly and entertaining.
When I was in library school, my professors often told me that my papers were not just well-researched, but also very readable.
I find codes fascinating, and this complete overview is mind boggling to someone like me. Still it amazes me that individuals who are remarkable at deciphering codes exist. Their minds must be advanced beyond anything I can comprehend. As I repeat myself, I am reminded that the whole thrust of breaking a code would convolute my brain and give me an extreme headache just for the attempt. Bravo to anyone who can do it, and this book is highly recommended to anyone who finds the mystery of hidden words intriguing.
A hefty but good read. It's sometimes a bit dry, but still manages to be very interesting. I would mention that the "updated version" is barely updated - the previous sections still being obviously from the 1960's (social norms have changed, and the odd homophobic or misogynistic throw away lines are oddly jarring against a background that has remained very fresh), and the newer section is extremely short, even taking into account it was updated in 1996 and a lot with the internet and NSA has happened since then.
Отличная книга, с одной стороны интересная фанатам шпионских историй, которых тут хватает, с другой стороны интересная it guys, которые фанатеют от криптографии. Это история криптоанализа, включающая в себя и некоторые истории расшифровки языков, и увлекательные рассказы о том, как расшифровывалась переписка королей и обычных людей и пр. Кстати, адски растоптаны любители искать криптограммы в текстах Шекспира и говорящие, что его стихи написал Бэкон.
This book was absolutely riveting. I loved the in-depth exploration of not only the history of codes and ciphers, cryptology and cryptanalysis, but also the related areas of linguistics, information theory as well as the unraveling of ancient texts and inscriptions. The logic, creativity and rigor that goes into cryptanalysis and the understanding of ancient records is simply astonishing. 10/10 for this book, which although well over a thousand pages long was a thoroughly enjoyable read.
There are two things you need to know about this book. One, it is "comprehensive" which means looooong. It achieves this length by talking about anything and everything vaguely related to cryptography, even including the hypothetical reception of alien signals from outer space. Two, only roughly 2% of the book is about modern (computer/internet) cryptography.
Took a while but solidly worth it. You sort of realize by the end that you accept as tacit, that all codes can be broken, despite a couple of claims otherwise in the book. Interesting that most of the book was written (and not updated) since before the unsealing of Enigma, and it foreshadows a great deal of the Snowden era NSA.
been very interesting thus far...i think cryptology is really cool. this is on the history side, there is very little math in it, but that's okay. there is actually a very rich history in cryptology that came into bloom during the late 1500s to early 1600s, and is still being pioneered even today (esp. 1970s).
ABANDONED. Well written and interesting in places, but the opening chapters on Pearl Harbour are really tedious (and it looks like we're to be treated to yet more of the same later in the book). Includes such 'balanced' comments as "It became increasingly evident that Nippon's march of aggression would eventually collide with American rectitude".
Ei ollut ihan kevyintä iltaluettavaa, vaan melkoista faktatykitystä maustettuna mielenkiintoisilla tarinoilla. Jos davincikoodit kiinnostaa, kannattaa tutustua siihen miten salakirjoituksia oikesti on kirjoitettu ja salauksia purettu historian saatossa. Onkohan aiheesta mitään uudempaa, jossa olisi viimeisten parin vuosikymmenen kehitystä käyty läpi?
I was interested in this book in the mid-sixties because I was in the Navy and working for the Naval Security Group which worked for NSA. Not much was publicly known about NSA back then and you don't see much about it nowadays either. So... I don't think I read the whole thing, just the NSA part. Obviously the edition I read had nothing about the internet or cell-phones. Date read is approximate.
Yes, I finally made it through this book! It is very interesting (if you're interested in cryptography), but it is very dry. It took me four months and two breaks to read the almost 1000 pages of text.
excellet, really covers all you might want to knowa little to much raw data here and there, but still greatwhy on earth is the first chapter first? is really pearl harbor the must crucial part of codebreaking&ww2?
иногда скучновато, иногда увлекательно, в среднем — очень ок
