https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13843.The_Hounds_of_the_M_rr_gan
Like several other reviewers, I find this is a book I return to because I just never tire of this finely wrought fairy tale.
There's much courage on display here, not a rare commodity in fantasy books but one remarkably well articulated in this one, maybe because the author recognizes that bravery for a child isn't the reach it is for an adult.
An engrossing story, appealing characters, humor, danger, good, evil, eels, dogs, headless heroes.
I think you'll care about what happens to the heroes of this story because they are exactly the companions you'd want to keep you company — and keep you laughing — on a long, hard road.

The Hounds of the Morrigan is one of the best children's/YA fantasy novels I .ever read I wish it was better known outside Ireland, the place where it is set.
This makes it special and sets it appart from the fantasy books you usually find, which are often more or less just variations of The Lord of The Rings or Narnia.The story is set both in modern-day Ireland and in a fantasy world through the two protagonists, ten-year-old pidge and his little sister Bridget have to escape from the Morrigan (goddess of battle, strife, and sovereignty) and her hounds.
In its structure and the appearance of the ancient Celtic gods, The Hounds of the Morrigan is similar to The Weirdstone of Brisingamen.
It makes me wonder if I've ever gone on any adventures I've forgotten, as well. Do other people ever get an inexpiable feeling whenever they see a weasel?
The plot is summed up best by this: Pidge and Bridget must stop an evil witch.
A god-like good guy (the Dadga) is watching over them and sending animals to help them along there journey.
The journey includes Pidge saying a lot of things like this: "Oh no, the hounds are nearby.
Oh look an animal sent by Dadga to help us.
Oh now another animal is sent by the Dadga to help us.
Oh yet another animal is sent by the Dadge..." and on and on an on.This book had to be ordered online because it's out of print.
Growing tired of looking at the table landscape, Breda Fairfoul yawned and allowed a small frown to appear on her forehead.‘It becomes tedious between moves,’ she remarked and to pass the time, she began to read a book by a great Russian genius whose name was Tolstoy. The name of the book was ‘War and Peace.’ As she read, she chewed her tobacco quid with relish and spat from time to time.[...]Breda closed the book.‘Too much Peace; not enough War,’ she complained with a profound, critical air an

The dialogue is very well-written and gives a very Irish flavor to the book.
The exposition is never heavy-handed or clumsy, which I always find is a tendency in books with a fantasy setting.
The fantastic aspects themselves are told so simply and convincingly that it gives the entire book a dreamy feel, and it makes the reader leave the book with the sense that anything can happen in the real world as well.This was one of my favorite books as a 10-11 year old; it's also a favorite book in my family in general.
I love to re-read this novel every couple years. It should be considered a children's classic. It's so amazing! Pat O'Shea's writing is lyrical, beautiful, humorous, and incredibly imaginative! The twists and turns are unexpected but believable. Even though I know what's going to happen, I always feel the children's fear and tension when the hounds are nearby. Pidge, down-to-earth and protective, and Brigit with her courage and literal humor are two of the most delightful characters in children's literature. The cast of characters move the story along, but Pidge and Brigit are the novel's real stars!
There are many books I read as a child that I've thought to pass on to my own children, but only rarely have I discovered the same sort of books as an adult.
The Hounds of the Morrigan absolutely fits into this category.
And if it proves too long for the children in my life to read themselves, I think it'd be tremendous fun to read aloud.
If you enjoy fond memories of Lloyd Alexander, Frances Hodgson Burnett, Roald Dahl, J.R.R. Tolkien, or C.S. Lewis, give Pat O'Shea a read.
The protagonist, Pidge, is quite young and the main relationship dynamic of the book is between him and his younger sister Brigit, who is, as he describes her, "five years old and five years daft." They're extremely protective of each other and perfectly happy in each others' company, which is extremely and it's nice not to have contrived sibling conflict for the sake of drama.
Pidge and Brigit go on a great journey to prevent the return to power of the Morrígan, an Irish battle goddess of war and death.
Good deeds done for weaker people often return to act in Pidge and Brigit's favour, and for all that this is a tale of pagan mythology, there is a distinctly Christian tone.
But they are soon approached by Boodie and Patsy, a delightful odd couple who explain that the book Pidge had bought from a used book store the day prior had released Olc-Glas, a terrible serpent.
Olc-Glas is sought by the Goddess of Death, War and Destruction--a three-aspect woman who will now track the children with their hounds.
The humor and yet the depth of these side characters helps the serious quest of the children move along and touched me.I had read this many years ago and I remember loving it then.
I read this beautiful Irish story in the 8th grade. If you're not one for thick books and small print, I wouldn't suggest this one to you. Or at least, find it in on tape or something. It's a story about a brother and sister who become caught up in a magical battle between good and evil and will ultimately determine which way the world sways in terms of sin or salvation. It's a gorgeous celtic tale that I would recommend to anyone with a vivid imagination. There's nothing that can't or wont happen in this book.
Seriously the best book I haphazardly stumbled upon and bought impulsively at a bookstore. It is a fantastic youth lit novel, about magic and godesses of destruction and death and celtic mythology and ireland. also, it is deliciously long so there is plenty to read and enjoy.
(This is one of the books I'm pretty sure I read as a kid, but since it was a library book I can't check - and that would have been almost twenty years ago, anyway, so please don't ask me about details. :D)
They encounter the whole pantheon of Celtic gods and goddesses-- Brigit and Angus Og, The Dagda--heroes and warriors-- Finn MacCool and the seven Maines, druids and giants and helping beasts.This is the only fantasy quest novel I can think of where Good seems to have the upper hand on Evil.
The evil Morrigan obey the cosmic rules that keep The Dagda-- the good god-- on top and the children safe from their evil plans.
Especially since the children don't even get to learn from their adventure-- in the end, after meeting gods and running with heroes, they forget any of it ever happened.
Following Pige and his sister Brigit this story is about how they meet many of the heroes in Irish folklore all while trying to defeat the Morrigan and her brood.
It is a wonderful story that many may find to be more of a fairy tale than they thought it would be.
Irish myths and fairy tales are not things that I grew up with so it was wonderful to read about them.
A wonderful book that would make a great bedtime read aloud.
Pidge goes on a journey with his little sister and together they must destroy the snake.
I found _The Hounds of the Morrigan_ to be a light fantasy.
The story moves right along and probably is more appropriate for a YA audience, but I enjoyed it.
I have a fascination with Irish mythology and history, so that was part of the attraction for me.
There are many good life lessons throughout the story--pay it forward, be kind to the earth and its creatures, be attentive to the moment, distinguish between wants and needs, etc.--but the author manages to not lecture the reader.
My main quibble is that I don't like the title--while the Hounds are important, they are not the key to the story.
The pace picks up at the very end, when suddenly the villain's hounds become actually almost dangerous, but for most of the book:A.
They just keep their distance and don't speak, and the kids aren't afraid of them at all.B. The hounds are never close for more than half a chapter before a cheerful new character appears to befriend the children and distract the hounds away.C. The author periodically assures the reader of how the kids are not really in danger and are not at all scared.
Y quiero dejar bien claro que yo de los celtas no sé más allá de la existencia de los druidas, así que este libro me deja con ganas de aprender más de esa cultura.Respecto a los personajes principales debo decir que estoy encantada con Brigit.
No es una niña que me gustaría criar, definitivamente, pero leerla ha sido muy divertido.
En resumen: es un libro que disfruté mucho.
Creo que este libro es de esos que me dan ganas de leerle a un niño, para ver sus reacciones.
¿Les dije que es muy mágico?
I'm not entirely sure what I think of this now that I've finished.
I enjoyed the story and most of the characters (a few of the minor characters the children interacted with got on my nerves a little).
I thought it was interesting and well-written.
It's not that it dragged in any particular spot, or that there was any place where I could say, "That wasn't important and could have been cut out." It's just that 600 pages of following two young children seemed a little much.
I enjoyed the book, though, and I think it was well-worth my time.
I found this book to be a fun romp through Irish Mythology. It is definately a middle reader book without any really horific or tragic happening. The protaganists are two young children who wander almost aimlessly through the adventure. They are helped along by various characters out of Celtic mythology. Pat O'shea knows her myths and presents them in an amusing way.
THIS BOOK IS AWESOME (or at least that's what I said when I was 10).
My sister has always loved this book, while I could only remember bits and pieces from experiencing it as a child and that I had found it quite difficult to follow the story.
However, even upon reading this again now being older, often I couldn't quite follow the motivation and failed to resonate with the characters feelings, which often seemed to be more forced rather than conveyed.
To tell the feelings of characters without explanation of their origin (for do we not all often feel a certain way without quite knowing the reason for it?) can be a good technique, however it felt rather overused and a bit lazy at times.
Eppure, nonostante ami il fantasy, questo romanzo non è riuscito a farmi volare con la fantasia, a rapirmi dal mondo reale, a far sì che la voglia di proseguire la lettura fosse più forte di qualsiasi altra occupazione.
Vi è il classico affidamento di un compito di fondamentale importanza a uno o più protagonisti umani che devono intraprendere un viaggio, approcciando con la magia e con elementi che nel mondo umano sono solo fantasia.
La storia c'era, ma era anche necessario riuscire a svolgerla nel migliore dei modi senza creare confusioni tra personaggi ed espressioni non comprensibili.
"La pietra del vecchio pescatore" è una storia affascinante, emozionante e che lascia un segno come un bel sogno da cui ci si è appena destati al mattino.
Un bel viaggio, per altro condito da un linguaggio a volte buffo ma sempre coerente con l'ambientazione di un'Irlanda del Faerie, l'Altro Mondo, un mondo di magiche creature che sopravvive intorno a noi, a volte lasciando un velo dischiuso per guardarvi dentro, altre, purtroppo, dimenticato e abbandonato in un tempo in cui forse si è disimparato a guardare la realtà con gli occhi di un bambino.
Enter the magical world of Faery with this thoroughly enjoyable book!
In fact, they are a trio of witches bent on conquering the world (and along with it, destroying all the happiness in it).
Pidge and Brigit then set out on an amazing quest in which they must find and destroy a magical stone that, if found by the witches, will restore them to full power.
This book is quite magical and very enjoyable.
Bonus: there is also a Gaelic pronunciation guide at the back of the book which is very helpful.
I was very late at learning to read.
I hated reading.
One evening I watched my dad reading this book.
“Pat has written a book”, he said.
“This is it”, he said.
I asked him to read me some of it.
He ended up reading the entire book to me and I distinctly remember yearning to be able to read it myself so I wouldn’t have to wait for my nightly instalment.
It was the first book I ever wanted to read.
Along the way they meet magic foxes, talking spiders and all sorts of mythical beings.
I named my cuddly toys after the beings in the book.
This is high on the list of my favorite fantasy novels I've read.
The distinctly Irish setting and skillful interweaving of Celtic mythology make it unique among books in this genre.
I liked this - the book is very funny and I think more heroic fantasies should be funny instead of grim-dark - but the humor isn't always incorporated skillfully and it slowly robs the story of any tension.
It is an enchanting book, though, one that ought to be read by a window on a snowy day with a fire blazing in the background.
I remember seeing this book all the time at the library (would have been the old Landmark Square branch) and being intrigued but also intimidated by the thickness of the spine.
And you know, that still infuriates me.
Fuck that noise, I’m good enough for you to use me to go on some vast quest but you think you know better than me and won’t let me remember it?
Once of those epic quest books where this happens and this happens and this happens just because they’re working on folklore logic.
The adventure the children go on is something you can relate to, though it's in a fantasy world, and O'Shea does a wonderful job making you feel like a child again if you read this book as an adult.The only reason I don't give this book 5 stars (and this is because I'm an adult now; the child-me would give 5 stars) is because in almost every chapter, Pidge and Bridget meet someone new.
As soon as the children enter the fantasy world, they (and you) always remember the hounds in the back of your mind.I love this book and whole-heartedly recommend it to anyone who enjoys a light fantasy novel.
