https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526071.The_First_Chronicles_of_Druss_the_Legend
Even more importantly, the Legend was one of the first fantasy books I have read, It is not surprising then that Druss has a special place among all the heroes I shared my books with (yes, it is very intimate).
And yet, even within these constraints, Mr Gemmell can surprise with a swift move like the best of sword fighters.
Druss, in spite of being a legend, is not bigger than life; never world apart from the others.
A story you should read so that you might catch a glimpse of the Legend.---Also in The Drenai Saga: 1.
As always, Gemmell's style is quick, realistic, and brutal.

This book tells the story of how a lumberjack, Druss, living a simple life with his wife in his village becomes a legend.
Druss and his father were first portrayed as simple villagers and yet their history held a dark and bloody secret.
It added a depth to the plot-line and a deeper understanding into Druss.David Gemmell shows the human nature at its worst and also, at its best.
If not for human nature at its worst, Rowena and Druss would not have been separated for that long.Even when they get united, their union is a bittersweet one, colored with all the trauma they both went through.
I'm always tempted to give Gemmell a five star rating. I try to reserve the 5 but DG is among the best action/adventure writers I've run across. When he passed we lost a great talent.
But when one day his beloved Rowena is kidnapped he will travel through unknown lands and will encounter friends, and enemies, who will teach him that the world is not as fair as it seems and so his great adventures will begin, though, his fate is already long written.This is Druss the Legend.
The Deathwalker.Ελληνική κριτική:(view spoiler)[Απ’ όλους τους ήρωες που έγγραψε ο Gemmell στην καριέρα του (και έγγραψε πολλούς) δεν νομίζω ότι έχω αγαπήσει κανέναν περισσότερο από τον Druss.Θυμάμαι όταν διάβασα το Legend (Ντρας ο θρύλος στα ελληνικά), το 4ο δικό του βιβλίο που διάβασα, μου άλλαξε εντελώς την οπτική για το ταλέντο του Gemmell αλλά και τι σημαίνει για κάποιον να είναι ήρωας.
فوقالعاده بود... یعنی بینظیر بودآدم وقتی کتاب اسطوره رو میخونه عاشق شخصیت دراس میشه، حالا اینجا گمل میاد دراس رو بیشتر به ما میشناسونه. این داستان در مورد اولین ماجراجوییهای دراس اسطورهست (که از عنوانش کاملاً معلومه D:). اما چیزی که غافلگیری رو کامل میکنه اینه که میفهمی کل این داستان یه جورایی فضاسازی بوده برای آخرین صفحات این کتاب که چیزی نیست جز نبرد گذرگاه اسکلن، نبردی که در کتاب اسطوره همیشه ازش صحبت میشه و آدم با خودش فکر میکنه، یعنی این نبرد خاص چی میتونه باشه؟و باید بگم یکی از بهترین نبرد
فوق‌العاده بود...
یعنی بی‌نظیر بودآدم وقتی کتاب اسطوره رو می‌خونه عاشق شخصیت دراس می‌شه، حالا این‌جا گمل میاد دراس رو بیشتر به ما می‌شناسونه.
اما چیزی که غافلگیری رو کامل می‌کنه اینه که می‌فهمی کل این داستان یه جورایی فضاسازی بوده برای آخرین صفحات این کتاب که چیزی نیست جز نبرد گذرگاه اسکلن، نبردی که در کتاب اسطوره همیشه ازش صحبت می‌شه و آدم با خودش فکر می‌کنه، یعنی این نبرد خاص چی می‌تونه باشه؟و باید بگم یکی از بهترین نبردهایی بود که یک نویسنده بتونه شرح بده، البته منظورم از نظر جزئیات و تاکتیک و استراتژی جنگی نیست، بلکه اون روح جنگ و واقعیته که نبرد داره.اگر می‌تونستم به این کتاب 6 از 5 می‌دادم، چون واقعاً ارزشش رو داره.
An awesome story that was extremely well written...
Then, he met Rowena, who saw the gentleness and good in him, and with her his anger faded.
Druss was in love, and loved by Rowena, and they married, and both were happy...
Rowena was taken, his father killed along with many other dead.
Druss, then took up Snaga, the blades of no return, and along with a hunter, set out to rescue his wife and kill those responsible...
Druss has an aura, a strength that he radiates, a power, and it doesn't all come from the demon possessed axe he wields...
Druss makes the impossible possible, and why?
But I didn't expect to become so attached to Druss and Rowena.
This book tugged at my heart strings and I spent the whole time I read this on the edge of my seat, hoping he would find her and all would be well.
This book lived up to my expectations and surpassed them greatly.
The characters are enjoyable and easy to become attached to, the plot moves forward in a very progressive and not convoluted manner.
A brilliant read and I can't wait to read the other chronicles of Druss.
A truly remarkable piece of love, courage and redemption. Gemmell was a rare breed. One who wrote from his heart. Not his wallet - As I see too many writers are guilty of these days. All hail The Saviour of Skeln Pass!!!
THE FIRST CHRONICLES OF DRUSS THE LEGEND saw author David Gemmell bringing back his his best loved character due to popular demand.
It's conceived as a prequel to his first book, LEGEND, exploring the life of Druss and the events that made him a globally-known hero.This is a light, straightforward novel that follows an action-focused narrative.
The battle scenes in the book are almost non-stop, indeed this has the most action of any Gemmell novel I've read.
3.5 StarsGemmell is certainly an author I will be looking more into. This book, although rather straightforward in plot, utilizes the elements I love most in this genre. I really wasn't a big fan of Druss for the first half of this book but he slowly started growing on me (perhaps not fully yet though). This book knows, as its author intended, exactly what it is and never tries to be or achieve anything else other than a - perhaps now clichéd - tale of heroism. I would highly recommend it, especially if Heroic Fantasy is what you seek.

Despite my really anticipating this book, it fell slightly short and I wonder if it's because some of the parts in it seemed undeveloped or rushed. It might have tried to fit in too much, and made each individual triumph or quest not as magnificent as it could have been. At least that was my impression, but I still certainly enjoyed it!
Gemmell delivers, another great book.
The central problem with this book is the central character is a man in his prime, in his time with only mild defects.
Future books will find Druss in those other scenarios, but in this one, he is a freakishly gifted young buck carving out his legend.
Druss is still wise in this book.
A battle in which he faces off against the army he serves in during the rest of the book.
The battle is 20 or so years in the future.
It is exciting, and in some ways my favorite non-siege battle in any Gemmell novel.
Oh I had forgotten my love for this book. I don't think I truly appreciated this one when I was younger, but reading it as an adult put it into a completely new perspective for me. It's a wonderful novel with a compelling plot, but I think I didn't quite realise how sad it could make me. Characters feel things that are just so real that it really gets to me. Also, Druss. Ah, Druss. He will always be my favourite. God, damn it, Gemmell, how are these novels simultaneously the most heart-breaking and wonderful things I've ever read?
So, I've read the first 6 novels thus far in the Drenai Saga and surprisngly, I think this is my favorite thus far.
The larger than life characters and amazing action/battle scenes continue to be Gemmell's strengths.
However, I found his dialogue has improved tremendously by this point, becoming far more consistent.
Also, the description was top notch.Best of all, where before I felt that the ending of Gemmell's books fell short of the tale leading up to it, I thought the ending here was perfect, staying true to everything laid before in the story.Can't wait to read the next one.
It was an epic saga in the vien of the Greek Tragedy stories. It was a great heroic story thats not surprsing but it was so large in scope of Druss life,growth,struggles and in took only 300 odd pages. Thats a rare talent for this type of fantasy. The many great supporting characters was nice touch too.One of the best Gemmell book easily. Only Legend and Wolf in Shadow can compete with it.
In this saga, women are mostly helpless and passed from man to man, depending on other men to rescue them or marry them while the black characters are depicted as mainly cannon (ok, arrow and axe) fodder. In fact, to anyone who's read the kinds of imperialistic boy's adventure stories churned out by British writers during the late 1800s, the scene with the Panthians would have seemed quite familiar.
I guess I had too high expectations on this one.It was good but not awesome. I really didn't like the time-hops. Beside that, I enjoyed it.
Early days of Druss. I kept trying to spot names that crop up later, or earlier depending how you look at it!
ძალიან კარგი წიგნი გამოდგა მოულოდნელად."გადამთიელი" უფრო ნაკლებად გამოხატული ხასიათის მქონე გმირი იყო ჩემი აზრით. დრასი საერთოდ სხვა ტიპაჟია. ტიპიური Barbarian Tank - რომელიც ზვავივით წალეკავს ხოლმე ყველაფერს.ცალკე აღნიშვნის ღირსია თვითონ სნაგა-გადამყვანი (მებორნე? სულთგამცილებელი? ვერ მოვიფიქრე როგორ ვთარგმნო Snaga the Sender), რომლისგანაც საბრძოლო ნაჯახის კვალობაზე, მშვენიერი პერსონაჟი გამოვიდა :D და მთავარი - ზიბენი არის უძმესი პიროვნება. კაცი რომელიც თავის თავში აერთიანებს პიპინ ტუკს, რეჯისს და ტასლჰოფს. ისე რო დაფიქრდე სამი ჰობიტის (ვიცი რო ტასლჰოფი კენდერია, მარა კენდერი-ჰობიტი რამ გაყო) გაერთიანებით ერთი human კი გამოდის.
"The Code of the Warrior:Never violate a woman, not harm a child. Do not lie, cheat, or steal. These things are for lesser men. Protect the weak against the evil strong. And never allow thoughts of gain to lead you into the pursuit of evil."
3.5...Gemmell has a gem with Druss. These Chronicles flesh out the character going from a youth working with his father up until the battle at Skeln Pass. Parts of this could have used more description, and I fear that Gemmell play-by-play of battle as it were leaves a little to be desired. The epitome of this was when Druss fells a giant demon bear in a manner of 5 sentences.
Despite all the Drenai novels that come before where bloodlines are made clear, Druss does not come of legend; he is the son of a jewelry crafter and the woman who so happened to love the jewelry crafter.
Snaga it is!Also, if you remember back to Legend, you will recall reference to the tale of how Druss traveled great distances to bring back his wife that was carried off by raiders and made to be a slave.
Druss dismisses this and it is moved off to the sidelines, but I am pleased that there was truth spoken to power.Finishing this book gave me a book hangover, hence the five stars.
A Gemmell book is like a rare steak; delicious, easy to get through and leaves you totally satisfied.
Druss, however, seemed like a B-grade cut of meat.
I found myself asking "what hasn't Druss seen and done?" Fought raiders?
How much more outlandish could Druss get?
Despite these weaknesses, Druss the Legend has its more subtle and satisfying moments.
The descriptions of the deep spiritual intimacy between Druss and Rowena were quite moving at times and their final moments together had a poignancy that lingered after the finish.
I wouldn't recommend this book as an introduction to Gemmell lest new readers dismiss him for its mediocrity.
In questo libro vengono fuori tutti i difetti della scrittura di Gemmell. Il libro racconta la giovinezza di Druss e la sua lunga ricerca dell'amatissima moglie che gli é stata rapita. Peccato che i protagonisti siano tratteggiati appena, molto superficialmente. Il rapporto d'amore tra i protagonisti viene affermato velocemente come postulato, ma mai approfondito o illustrato che so, con una scena qualunque. Nei romanzi di Gemmell gli unici protagonisti assoluti sono i combattimenti, il sangue, il machismo, l'eroismo. Stop. Booring!! É un fantasy "vecchio", datato, superato. Davvero molto noioso...
This book is one of my all-time favorites, all the more so because it was actually so gripping I read it from start to finish in one day.
And I am talking about a busy workday here.
Started reading during my lunch and once I came home until I put it down at 4 in the morning.I love Druss, his uncompromising world view and his adventures.
There is a lot of blood and gore, but most memorable were the hardship he and his friends endured over the years.
There are few books that satisfy my hunger for action and combat while still being able to connect on a deeper emotional base.
This is my favourite book ever! Druss the Legend is one of the most likeable and endearing characters in a book. If I had to take just one book to a desert island or had to recommend a book to a friend it would be this one. The characters are phenomenal, the story is simple but gripping from the first page to the last, the character development is spot on...I could go on all day. I dare anyone to read it and tell me they didn't like it!
