https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208137.The_Tibetan_Book_of_the_Dead
i was about 3/4 done with this book when my car was stolen, the book was in the car. i got the car back two days later, but no tibetan book of the dead. hopefully some car thief will have greater understanding on his journey through the next bardo.
I have read the Tibetan book of the Dead, but I haven't. To read it once, isn't to read it at all. It takes time, effort, and a particular frame of mind, to truly get to grips with the text. You can take from it what you need, or take all of it, and make of it what you will. I find it very difficult to write a 'review' of the Tibetan Book of the dead. Listen to 'Tomorrow Never Knows' by The Beatles. The choral sounds in this music, reflect (only a little) the spirit of this masterpiece.
Of course, on the way, we were almost arrested (twice) outside the Wisconsin Dells; risked being killed in a wreck by an angry speedfreak outside of Duluth; had to run away into an unknown pine forest from an armed contingent of drunken "Iron Range Boys" and got caught in a downpour just as we were laying out sleeping bags in a field somewhere around Ely, Minnesota.Camp Wakonda was a canoe camp inhabited by the aforementioned Jim; Kurt, his assistant from Park Ridge; a boy who had been found living in the Chicago Transit Authority bus sheds--called, unimaginatively enough, "C.T.A."--and one lone woman, Candy, also an employee of the YMCA.
এই বইটা পড়ার সাথে কষটকর কোন ভরমণের তুলনা করতে পারি। সিরিয়াস রকমের কষট। পরচুর টারম আছে, মনে রাখতে হয়। এক পৃষঠায় পড়লাম তো পরের পৃষঠা যেতে যেতেই ভুলে গেলাম। বযাপারটা খুব বিরকতিকর। মূল অনুবাদে যাওয়ার আগে যে লেখাটা আছে সেটা পড়া মাতরাতিরিকত কষটের। আসলে পড়া শেষে আমার কথা হচছে, আবার পড়তে হবে।আর একটা বযাপার হচছে, খুব কষুদর একটা সময়কে অসংখয ভাগে ভাগ করে সেই কষুদর সময়ের বিশাল বরণনাকে কিভাবে দেখে কেউ? আমি এই বইটাকে আবদধ কষেতরে ঘুরপাক খাওয়ার সাথেই তুলনা করতে পারি।বইটার বিষয়বসতু কী? একটা মানুষ মরে গেল। সব কি
সমস্যা হতেই পারে অতএব তার বন্ধু, তার ধর্মগুরুর দায়িত্ব তাকে সাহায্য করা। প্রয়োজনীয় মন্ত্রগুলো তার সামনে উচ্চারণ কর। একসময় সে মরে যাবে কিন্তু মনে করনা যে সে তোমাদের কোন কিছু আর অনুভব করতে পারছেনা। সে পারবে। সে একটা অন্যরকম অবস্থায় চলে যাবে, সে বুঝতে পারবেনা যে সে কি জীবিত না মৃত। কিন্তু একসময় (মোটামুটি) স্থিতিশীল অবস্থায় আসবে এবং সে (আত্মা) বিচরণ করবে। [এখানে আসলে অনেকগুলো ডট হবে!] একটা লক্ষ্য আছে তার, সে কি পারবে সেখানে পৌঁছাতে?
Although I'm pretty doubtful that these things exactly happen to you after you die (just how exactly does the author know about all these intricate details!), I still believe in a lot of the concepts it presents, not only for thinking about post-death, but also in this lifetime.
So, think happy thoughts & be at peace.If that really is the case (your current mindset affects your afterlife), it is interesting to ponder whether a peaceful/happy murderer (if such a thing could exist) would suffer in the after-life.
Also interesting to think about religious extremists who believe they are doing the nobel thing.
The book constantly says, "And even who is skeptic or stupid or really, just the dumbest person on the planet will recognize the truth and be liberated" which makes me feel kinda bad because if you’re reading this, you weren’t liberated!
The introduction and the commentary served as a great setup for the text itself, though still didn't prepare me for what I was in for.
At first it seemed very different from other Buddhist texts I've read.
It definitely didn't have the almost warm-fuzzy, reassuring feeling I get when reading Thich Nhat Hanh's books.
But then I was reading through, starting to think the ideas were getting repetitive - I had an epiphany.
The psychological metaphors offered in the book are truly transformative.
I finished reading it yesterday, and I still don't think it's done sinking in.
BecomingThe newly dead are addressed as "Oh Child of Noble Family", then given instructions, including:----------------------------------"At this time your pleasure and pain are dependent on your own karma.""The good conscious within you will collect all your good actions like white pebbles, and the bad conscious within you will collect all your evil actions like black pebbles.
You will say, 'I have not sinned!' Then the Lord of Death will say: "I will look into the mirror of Karma".
of hell-beings"Those who have not meditated properly will be confused, and quickly look for a womb to re-enter.""Listen without distraction.
I really don't want to write reviews anymore, providing data for amazon, but I seriously wish I'd read this book earlier. Puts metaphysical concepts into context. Also, I'm really not interested in nit picking over the merit of alternate translations. It's clear enough, no matter which way it's told.
the essential preparation to death. Every spiritual seeker must try to understand this extraordinary wisdom and knowledge
His writing is accessible, if complex, and his translation work, though wordy and abstract, is still digestible given range of abstraction he must have waded through.THE TIBETAN BOOK OF THE DEAD chronicles the steps necessary to authentically aid an individual's encounters with the many between states of existence.
(1) Thurman contextualizes and prefaces his translation of Padma Sambhava's treasure texts with an exquisite historical observation of the cultural importance/ fascination/ understanding of "the phenomena of dying," as the Dalai Lama states in the foreward.
Lastly, as much as I loved his work on the role of death/dying in Buddhist culture through the centuries, I always wish there was more (not that it was particularly necessary .
I want Goodreads to have an "unable to read" selection.
How I looked forward to reading these books.
So many people spoke so highly of these books, how they devoured them.
I now doubt the veracity of their claims.
This book had a prologue, a forward, an index to the plates, a commentary...all taking up the first 150 pages of the book.
Then the book.
The first 10 pages made Alan Watts read like Dr. Seuss.
Unreadable.
Incredibly dated.
With so many accessible books on Buddhism, these are going into my never to be read pile.
a must if you have any interest to what begins of your mind, body and soul when you die
Pg 248The SANGSARA and NIRVANA have their source in the ONE MIND.Pg 250All creation, within and without, is contained in one's own mind,Like the water in the ice; seek to know this truly, Tingri folk.Pg 252Though one thinketh joys and sorrows come of causes of oppostie,Yet within oneself are found their roots and cause, Tingri folk.If excess of faith should lead you to contempt of truth at times, Meditate karmic results in the Sangsara, Tingri folk.Pg 234The full realization of the passing away into Nirvana is also a concept of mind.Misfortion caused by demons and evil spirits is also a concept of mind.**Gods and good fortune are also concepts of mind.Likewise, the various 'perfections' are mental concepts.Existence and non-existence, as well as 'the Non-Created', are concepts of the mind.**Like Jesus and His disciples and the early Christians as a whole, the Tibetans believe that invisible beings, commonly called demons and evil spiritsThe religious point of view always expresses and formulates the essential psychological attitude and its specific prejudices, even in the case of people who have forgotten, or who have never heard of, their own religion.
What book do I remember reading with more fascination, more dread, more mind-boggling interest?
The book takes you on a journey, from the Tibetan perspective, past death, to the journey, according to them, each of us is to take after our lives here.
There are long poetic passages, songs, as it were, to be sung by those watching over your body during the aftermath of your life, to help guide you into the nettlesome spiritual world that awaits.
Well, this book is a good guide.
La minuciosa descripción de los estados que debe atravesar un difunto desde el momento de su muerte hasta los momentos previos a la reencarnación (en caso de que no alcance la liberación mediante los diversos consejos que se le revelan), es decir, durante su vagabundeo en el samsara, según la concepción budista-tibetana, convierten a este libro en un indispensable de todos los tiempos.
I learned a lot from this book about Tibetan mythology.However, I hadn't realized to what extent Tibetan Buddhism encouraged acceptance of culpability--the sort of self-blame one can find in texts discussing original sin in Christian works as well.
To some extent this tarnished my view of Buddhism as a religion of perfect acceptance and kindness, but while I didn't adore the premise of some of the beliefs, I feel that I gained a greater appreciation for the conclusions and for the advice it gives.In summary: A relaxing read that encourages appreciation of life and acceptance of death.
It was a very educational read. Rated M15+ for descriptions of violence. It clarified for me that no enlightened Westerner can reasonably defend Buddhist thought. The two are incompatible.
provided that we are able to understand the highly phantasmagorical imagery of dreams and poetry, as the text is heavily steeped in this kind of symbolism and written in the loveliest of archaic, flowery prose.Put succinctly by Carl Jung in the Psychological Commentary, the TBD is “a book of instructions for the dead and dying.” The book advocates that upon dying, we should strive to: 1) maintain our consciousness through the rift in much the same way that we are capable of doing now while falling into lucid or astral sleep, 2) maintain a state of mind that is as close to Samadhi that we can get so that when we are shown the “Fundamental Clear Light” upon death, we are neither awed nor terrified, because then, through our equanimity, we will be able to 3) recognize that we are one with the Light, and that any images we see (positive or negative) are simply mental constructs of our own.
This might come in useful, if you're going to die; given that it is a manual on dying used by people who have studied death and its processes long before those of us in the west climbed down out of the trees.Humor aside, this manual typically was/is used by an adept to assist the being shuffling out of the body and into the next series of bardoes (suspensions) on the way either to nirvana, or rebirth/reincarntation.I came across this particular edition - some swear by others - as a result of my first post on the Internet in a chat-room that dealt with near death experiences on the original Salon site.
The text gives directions for what to chant, what do to when you encounter the deities, how to manage your fear and what loved ones can do to help the process.
Dreaming, as it turns out, is an opportunity to experience the clear light, so I need to work on that one a little bit, and meditation is the place where I practice tapping into my true nature so I can bring it into the world.
These are something I could read every day and will add to my meditation practice.
I began practicing meditation and reading Buddhist-based self-help books five years ago, but have lacked a clear broad picture of where I'm located in relation to the history of the practice; and I've lacked an understanding of how the evolution of the practice allowed it to reach me.
Not that it's been needed for me to know the scope of Buddhist teachings or Tibetan history to benefit from studying the Dharma and from sitting.
I have benefited without a full course of study.
Nor have I felt the need to identify outwardly as a Buddhist in any way that would require a more thorough knowledge than I have.
Fascinating and thought provoking.
It is a very different picture of cosmology than I have ever considered.
I am quite certain I did not understand everything here, but the commentaries were incredibly helpful.
It is definitely not the sort of thing you can simply read once, I can tell it would require many years of study to truly grasp everything presented here.
This structure of psychology and cosmology is a remarkable way to look at the world and at the human experience of life and death.
I was really grateful for the opportunity to look into a culture and religion so foreign to my own.
"O nobly-born, listen undistractedly. On the Second Day the pure form of water will shine as a whitelight...Be not fond of the dull, smoke-coloured light from Hell". For 49 days after your death, you need guidance in the afterlife until you reach rebirth, be it as man, god...or animal. Move forward, do not cling to the past. You should seek a favorable rebirth, so, you should choose carefully.
Read this again and it left me with the same incomplete feeling as before. The introduction by Fremantle is helpful in a scholarly way; the commentary by Trungpa makes it meaningful. The translation seems dated since in the 21st century it is hard to tolerate using only the male pronoun. That little word can plunge a text right out of "spirituality" and into "religious studies."An essay by Steven Goodman in the Spring 2012 Inquiring Mind lists his preferred versions by Rbt Thurman, Gyurme Dorje, and Sogyal Rimpoche. I'll read those next.
I've been intrigued but the mystery and mysticism surrounding this book since I was a young girl, but i can glady say that i've finally crossed it off my list of "occult books to read before i die"....and good riddance! i blame much of it on this edition's clunky and otherwise dry-as-a-bone translation, but there was very little about it that could hold my interest for more than a few minutes at a time (which makes for good bathroom reading, i guess? eesh).
This is a good translation of the Tibetan Book of the Dead, by Uma Thurman's dad.I found it very interesting to read from a cultural and ethnic standpoint but I did not find it particularly spiritual.It is like a bed time story that you read to someone who is dying. Which is, in my opinion an interesting religious tradition.
A very interesting read about the Tibetan way of mentally and spiritually preparing for death. It took a lot of concentration to get through the intricacies of part 1, and I admittedly skipped the second part once seeing it was almost all prayers. Still, I enjoyed the "spiritual science" aspect of the text.
I read this the summer after my freshman year of college and I can honestly say that this book enhanced the way that I viewed life, perception, and the afterlife. A vivid concept of how the soul could transition from one state to another formed, and I saw the body as a component, or a glove of the higher self to use while visiting Earth. Easily one of my all-time favorites!
The foreword(s) in this book are particularly compelling, giving good insight into the author and his sensibilities. Being Christian, I drew parallels to my own religion, something I have always done but enjoyed seeing written out. It makes you wonder about all religious texts, and is something I would recommend to expand your mind.
