https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232501.Guilty
He was also sick with tuberculosis - as he makes note a couple times about being a sick man, etc.Mixed in with these quasi-diary entries (in the notes to the Kendall translation you get the unabridged diary I presume - Bataille purposely cut out pieces to Guilty) are ruminations on anguish, the night, chance, laughter, ecstasy.
I would agree with him here.I think all the chapters are good, but in my opinion it really picks up in his chapter "The Attraction of Gambling" which I feel like is one of the best Bataille "essays" I've ever read.
"a finger pointing to the abyss": what all books should be, really.
Richly translated by Bruce Boone and woefully out of print, Boone also translated "On Nietzsche" which is another book in Bataille's collection of writings dubbed Summa Atheologica based in contrast to Saint Thomas Aquinas's work of similar title.
Digressions aside, this book is an excellent study in the struggle of the various issues Bataille was wrestling with at the time when the West was dealing with the clash of Modernization: The World at war, rising fascism, the writings of Nietzsche, Hegel and de Sade and an overwhelming sense of death.
The details are in the aphorisms more than the essays included, IMHO.
He seems to elucidate the petty (criminal) and yet, beautiful nature of civilization, life..
Particularly loved his writings on becoming naked, taking chances..
far too often we condition ourselves in society to ignore that naked element.
Instead, I prefer to believe that all people are guilty of things, perhaps more or less than others..
to believe guilt is to exercise our threats and passions.
I want to be guilty because guilt is what sets us free rather than break us apart.
I love these new translations by Stuart Kendall. His introductions give an exhaustive and readable account of the complicated details of the drafting and publication history of these writings and also include additional material that accompanied the primary material as Bataille re-conceived them in the definitively published versions within Bataille's life. I enjoy Kendall's approach to Bataille's writings which feel free of a specific lens of interpretation and instead focuses on influences Bataille had at the time of writing the work. The end product of these new translations are that they will remain definitive versions going forward. Highly recommended!
putrefaction defined.
