https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89848.The_Pure_and_the_Impure
The word "pure" has never revealed an intelligible meaning to me. I can only use the word to quench an optical thirst for purity in the transparencies that evoke in it—in bubbles, in a volume of water, and in the imaginary latitudes entrenched, beyond reach... It is a peculiar mood this piece evokes, the kind of "you had to be there, without any knowledge of what the future would bring" sensibility that renders all modern day desire for Victorian Age living both misinformed and masochistic. Sai
For instance, a mere boy, issuing from the distant times when good and evil, mingled like two liqueurs, made one, gave an account of his last night at the Élysée Palace-Hôtel:"He made me feel afraid, that big man, in his bedroom..I opened the little knife, I put one arm over my eyes, and with my other hand holding the knife, I went like this at the fat man, into his stomach...And I ran away quick!"He was radiant with beauty, with roguishness, with a kind of incipient madness.
Time has long left her worded world far behind, and there is as little hope of capturing it now as there was then.
I was afraid of dispelling the mystery we attach to people whom we know only casually.Colette's writing is not just sensual.
There is the callous Don Juan who boasts of never being truly attached to anyone; a lesbian poet, clad in all-black and moving as a shadow, who died as she lived (tragically); a May-December couple; crossdressers and eccentrics and deviants of every kind.
Some of these stories have a tint of scorn in the narration, even for the one wholesome story of two women who lived together in pastoral bliss in Ireland for forty years.
The several protagonists varying from:-Charlotte:- a 45 yr old woman who tries her best to hide her true feelings from her ravishing young lover.Renee Vivien:- Seek for acceptance and love in her several lesbian relationships, ultimately rendering to commit suicide with a lonely heart.Lady Eleanor:- who live a quaint and indiscernible life with her companion Sarah for 53 years.Pepe:- A Spaniard of nobility who was in love with rugged men in blue overalls.All of them are chained in sexual inhibitions and failing miserably in achieving self- satisfaction over sought after pleasures.
Colette’s notion of the quest to attain pure jouissance brings rejection and vacant contentment solidifying the “impurity” of any relationship.Colette’s scripts are not strictly feminist or homosexual values; it is a novel implicating the idea of women flouting societal norms of conventional sex, power and love, by discovering their sexuality.
The portraits are leavened with some rather airy, bordering on empty, theorizing about the differences between male-female and female-female relationships.
Mildly irritating is her occasional tone of worldly  grande dame  observing the natives in their habitat (unhappily, she actually begins the book in this stance); much more irritating to me are her occasional generalizations (and not just in the reported conversations, but also in the narrator's voice) signaled by "toutes les femmes", "les hommes" and the like.
And I wonder how many lesbians would agree that "only  sapphic  [my emphasis] libertinism is unacceptable" ?In sum, this book is a  unicum  - I haven't read anything else like it.

Please note that the above star rating is less indicative of the quality of the novel than of my shortcomings as a reader: I realize in retrospect that what I wanted was an engaging, gossipy yarn dissecting the sexual practices of the affluent and/or artistic circles Colette moved in in the fifty years spanning from the fin de siècle to her death just past the midway point of the 20th century...
I fully intend to return at some point with my expectations recalibrated and more attuned to the intricate complexity of Colette's project.
Even while I sometimes could not follow her train of thought from one sentence to the next, there was something about this kind of fine, high attention that I loved and found strangely luxurious.
As I said, there is no plot; the book is pure unfettered sensibility, and when you think about it there is something kind of decadent - in a good way - about that.
I also just love the implicit insistence in this book that the subject of people's erotic emotional lives matters, and is worthy of close attention.
Colette's The Pure and the Impure is a meditation on sexuality/sexual relationships.
It was an interesting read but there were times when I had trouble following the narrative, and that's why I refer to this book as a meditation.
Many times I would have to go back and re-read several paragraphs in order to understand what or whom or who Colette was talking to.
But I did gather a great quote, one that I can relate to:"'I am neither that nor anything else, alas,' said La Chevaliere, dropping the vicious little hand.
'What I lack cannot be found by searching for it.'"
What I've learned is that when the goodreads description says 'erotic', it never is
4,5 stars.
(I still have not seen the movie and cannot vouch for it, though the reviews are thus far kind.)This is apparently not the most characteristic of Colette's books, but I found it quite beautiful and insightful, in its oblique way.
It's a frank, carefully observed, poetically rendered report from quite a different time and place, yet the insights it has on the nature of desire, and the ways people talk to each other given their various interests and backgrounds, seem sound, ring true.(So, anyone vouch for the movie?)
Here's one very trans line from Marquis' chapter: "[A young man] gave to La Chevalière a name that made her blush with joy and gratitude: he called her "my father." (81)---As for the rest of the queer content in this book:Colette describes Renée Vivien, the tragic lesbian poet, English-born, French-by-choice, and a fellow woman listed on Natalie Clifford Barney's conquests.
I wonder if there's some internalized homophobia happening, or perhaps she feels like she has to tamp down her discussion of queer people with some negativity in order to maintain her reputation, or whatever.Maybe I got used to Colette's style, but by the time I read The Tender Shoot and The Vagabond, Colette briefly describes lesbians and was much more sympathetic.
Nella mia classifica di Letture della Vita. "Non appena festeggio le uguaglianze, le affinità, scorgo la fine della mia gioia, e mi avvedo che respiro un malessere simile a quello che regna nei musei d'arte, in mezzo alla ressa dei capolavori, di volti dipinti, di ritratti nei quali la vita continua ad affluire con un'abbondanza malefica... Toglietemi di torno ciò che è troppo incantevole! "
She rejects structures - which is definitely optimistic and maybe delusional, but sort of admirable for all that."I'm devoted to that boy, with all my heart.
Secrets of the Flesh, which is excellent, is now a bit hazy in my memory but Colette's life is vivid enough that even those hazy memories are of some use.
Again, it's not a thinly-veiled autobiography or anything - but it's helpful to know a bit of what's going on already because, as Thurman's introduction notes .
Colette doesn't go out of her way to make this an easy read.
A sensuously written peek into the Parisian erotic underworld of the early 19th century.
While it must've been scandalous when first published, much of it seems quaint now.
Execept for the lesbian opium den orgies, that's still pretty titillating.
"He waved both hands in a complicated gesture which fleetingly indicated his chest, his mouth, his genitals, his thighs.
Thanks no doubt to my fatigue, I was reminded of an animal standing on its hind legs and unwinding the invisible.
Then he resumed his strictly human significance, opened the door, and easily mingled with the night outside, where the sea was already a little paler than the sky.”
When published, many people found this book shocking. I suspect that many people still would. I am not one of those. I didn't much like it because I simply wasn't interested.
Ed è un peccato, perché la complessità dei giudizi che si possono formulare su un libro, dentro al sistema delle stelline, non ci sta proprio.Questo è il primo libro che leggo di Colette.
sfuma nel primo ma è in realtà un giudizio più personale: un certo gioco della seduzione - immagino, da non praticante - è sociale, suddivide le persone in tipi e le singole storie in motivi narrativi, che iniziano con " le donne" "gli uomini" "i gay" "le lesbiche" e via così.
Non sono buono con i tipi di persone, con i "si fa così", i sentimenti manierati.
By chance, I seem to have re-read it just in time for a film about the life of Colette, which is pretty exciting.The book is a factual book, a philosophical musing on the interactions between males and females, females and females, and males and males.
If you do find this offensive then hey, maybe you SHOULD read this text and challenge yourself.Colette's literary and ideological domain was the demi-monde and the bedroom and she was very happy to keep it that way.
I couldn't read books like this ad nauseum, because for me, broad horizons are everything, and a bedroom is confining.

Un petit livre qui se définit mal, entre la série de portraits et les promenades dans les réminiscences, entre une étude sur l’homosexualité et un hommage aux êtres différents, ces « monstres » si chers à l’autrice, celles et ceux qui ont fait de sa vie une aventure perpétuelle, celles et ceux avec qui, en tant que femme, elle se sentait en sécurité et avec qui elle pouvait se permettre d’être authentique.
Ici, le pur et l’impur se côtoient dans les plaisirs, les délices, l’opium et l’éloquence.
I believe that Colette is the most underestimated and underemphasized French author I have come across so far.
Colette understands language and human nature so deeply that every line of her book is deeply moving and profound.
I think I wept at least once in every chapter and had to put it down several times just to ponder over what I was reading.
This is not a light or a fun read, this is something that takes time and needs to be digested.
But if you are in the mood for a wondrous, underappreciated author than please, take the time to read this book.
I wanted to love this, and I kinda didn’t. I loved how sensory and lush the writing was, but I found some of the dialogue kind of...clunky? That could just be a translation issue though! I also just didn’t enjoy the chapters were Colette talks about like, the Don Juans she has known. The chapter on Renee Vivien was definitely my favourite chapter of the book.
Beautifully written, though this book felt somewhat unfinished. I think many can agree on that. A lot of her anecdotes didn't finish in a conventional way, leaving the reader suspended and a bit confused...it definitely took some analysis to come to some conclusions, so I feel like I learned a fair amount from this book.
Colette is one of the greatest writers for sure, on love especially. This is her last book I think. Kind of weird vignette essays on all types of Parisian lovers, gay, straight, rich, drunk, opium den madams, etc. & her writing is just so good.
C'était un lecture surprenante. C'est le premier livre de Colette que je lis et je ne m'attendais pas du tout à cela. Elle a une écriture très féminine et sensuelle, ça m'a très fort surprise. J'ai été ravie de cette lecture. Elle écrit sur une sensualité et un plaisir réfléchis.
Like Anais Nin on steroids. Some insightful and eloquent observations but just so heavy going I found myself having to read passages over and over again to try and get my head around what she was saying.
I’m so in the habit of reading easy narrative fiction that this took work, but I loved it all the more for it. The writing transported me, full of feeling, and wit, and queerness. It’s sad, though, so sad, insistent that our search for love is perhaps impossible.
court roman(?) sur le non conformisme et confidences sur les conversations avec diverses des ses relations. L'intérêt, au début suranné mais ensuite bien réel,s'éveille au fil de la lecture .
“Ci sono esseri che si trasformano per arricchimento, altri che si conquistano una vita reale solo spogliandosi, e soltanto la loro miseria li crea.” (p. 70)“Riempie i vuoti, la tristezza.” (p. 82)
beaucoup de mal à suivre cette lecture, j'ai peiné à finir le livre. peut-être est-ce cette écriture très ornée qui me rends hermétique?
