https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1327609.Light_on_Lucrezia
Buku kedua ini diawali dgn kisah kedatangan Alfonso of Aragon, Duke of Bisceglie, calon suami kedua Lucrezia, dan juga adik kandung Sanchia (ipar Lucrezia sekaligus kekasih Cesare Borgia).
Tidak ada yg menduga ternyata pasangan ini saling jatuh cinta sejak pandangan pertama, walau Alfonso selalu mencemaskan keselamatan dirinya terutama dari Cesare Borgia yang terang2an membenci semua suami Borgia.
Karena itu Lucrezia tidak menolak utk dinikahkan ke-3 kalinya, dan kali ini pilihan Paus Alexander jatuh pada Alfonso Este, calon Duke of Ferrara.
Tidak ayal lagi menyebabkan Lucrezia jatuh ke hubungan platonis dgn Pietro Bembo, si penyair dan Francesco Gonzaga (suami Isabella Este).Saat suaminya akhirnya menjabat resmi sbg Duke Ferrara, terjadi perseteruan antara adik-adik sang duke yang terbelah menjadi 2 kubu.
4.5
I started Light on Lucrezia with a bit of trepidation since I wasn’t sure if I would understand the story as it was a sequel, following Madonna of the Seven Hills, the first book in Jean Plaidy’s Lucrezia Borgia series.
Being in her head wasn’t fun because while the events of the book were interesting and even enjoyable to read, Lucrezia was just a dull and vapid character.
As a historical fiction novel, it is granted that the author will take some liberties with the names, dates and events in order to fit into the storyline but this book read like a fanfiction of the hit TV series, The Borgias.
Nikako mi se ne svidja stil pisanja ove autorice, no s obzirom da je rijec o jednoj od najdrazih mi prica uopce, procitala sam je. Tesko. Stil pisanja ne uzrokuje u vama emocionalnu vezu s likovima i zato je ova knjiga jako naporna s vremena na vrijeme.
Two DNFs in a row! Apparently I'm on a roll. This book is so dull. It's all tell, there's no meat on the bones, and I find it hard to believe Lucrezia Borgia and Alfonso of Naples were such wet blankets.
It was fairly good until (view spoiler)[ the pope dies (hide spoiler)] then the rest of the book drags on with not much happening.
Pure novellised hagiography. Lucrezia is an unusual choice for a Mary Sue, and therefore this novel doesn't really work very well.
Não tendo lido o primeiro livro, acho que este livro trata sobre uma família muito passional e fora do ordinário. Praticamente devorei o livro, mas houve momentos em que eu gostaria de entrar na história e sacudir alguns personagens, principalmente Lucrécia. Esse sentimento, todavia, acho que deriva da ótima escrita da autora, do envolvimento e contato com os personagens.
Just read this book having read book one. Well written and researched the fascinating story of lucrezia continues. I love Jean Plaidys style she is easy to read and you get pulled into whatever she writes. Couldn't put it down.
Impressive. But, if you haven’t read the first book would be confused with some characters that are mentioned in the second book. From many journals were written that Lucrezia was an evil princess, but Plaidy has written differently. At least, I won’t judge a person from one side story.
Quite readable. Plaidy eschews the sensationalism used by many other people writing about the Borgias and instead tries to understand how the Lucrezia of the Vatican could become the respected Duchess of her later years.
3.5. Enjoyable finish to the story.
This is a nice distinction, maybe -- you can't talk effectively about rumors without mentioning their content, at least in passing, after all -- but one that Plaidy is a master of making, and making into satisfying novels.Which is why I love her, and, as I mentioned when writing about The Scarlet Contessa, a book set in pretty much the same time and place as Plaidy's Borgia books, wish she'd taken up Caterina Sforza as a subject at some point.
Judul Asli : THE BORGIAS : LIGHT ON LUCREZIA[ book 2 of THE BORGIAS Series ]Copyright © 1958, 1974 by Jean PlaidyCopyright renewed © 1986 by Jean PlaidyPenerbit : Elex Media KomputindoAlih Bahasa : Eka BudiartiCetakan I : April 2013 ; 648 hlm Lucrezia of Borgia – yang terkenal akan kecantikannya, sekaligus sejarah mengerikan berkaitan dengan kehidupan pribadinya karena ia merupakan anggota keluarga Borgia yang menguasai dunia politik Eropa pada abad ke Ayah kandung adalah Roderigo Borgia yang juga dikenal sebagai Paus Alexander VI – pria ambisius yang menginginkan Italia berada di dalam kekuasaan kaum Borgia yang berasal dari Spanyol.
But knowing this is based on fact turns this unbelievable story into reality.The story is actually prefaced by a note from the author about the character of Lucrezia.
History has painted her as a wicked character just like the rest of her family, capable of murder, love affairs, and even insect.
I haven't read anything else about the Borgias, but as Lucrezia is written here you can't help falling in love with her, and even feel a bit sorry for her.It's no surprise given the author that I loved the book.
But what might be more of a surprise is that I loved the story of Lucrezia and the rest of the Borgias.
Light on Lucrezia is the sequel to Madonna on the Seven Hills.
The novel opens with the moody Lucrezia preparing for her second marriage.
But though Lucrezia's fate is the happiest of the Borgia family, that really is not saying much considering what happens...Reading Light On Lucrezia is like suffering through the last half of Gone With The Wind.
Is the ending inevitable?
Madonna of the Seven Hills and Light on Lucrezia have recently been published as one novel.
Plaidy's depiction of the Borgias is interesting.
And the first novel, at least, had some lightness and frivolity to it.
As with the previous book, the core of the story is Lucrezia’s relationship with her father – Pope Alexander VI – and her brother Cesare, only this time the mighty Borgias are seen in decline.Cesare is arguably the best-drawn character.
The characterization is generally is very good, as is the imagery, but it’s not enough to save this somewhat bland novel, based on fascinating events, written by a talented author who’s not made use of the potential available to create something special.This book, like the first one, did not prove to be very engaging.
There’s also one stupid line in the book, namely: “I am Lucrezia Borgia,” said Lucrezia.Why a talented author like Ms Plaidy needs to add ‘said Lucrezia’ to the above dialogue is beyond me.
While I quite liked the first book in the Lucrezia Borgia series, Madonna of the Seven Hills, I just can not get through this second book.
Lucrezia's story does interest me but this book just drags on and on.
I believe I commented on that in my review of the first book also.
In this book it seems to be even worse.
The Borgia's are such a colourfull family it must be possible to make their characters more lively than Plaidy does.What also bothers me what the lack of dates mentioned.
Light on Lucrezia continues the story of Lucrezia Borgia from the first in the series, Madonna of the Seven Hills by Jean Plaidy.
Dubbed 'the original crime family,' the Borgias were quite the interesting family and the myths that follow them are certainly intriguing.Jean Plaidy is a phenomenal writer and her story is captivating.
I was surprised that she portrayed Lucrezia as the innocent pawn since that seems to be a rare occurrence.
It is a fairly quick read, the writing is superb and the Borgias definitely make for good drama.
I found this book to be fascinating as well as for some reason repelling.
In some ways,I actually felt badly for Cesare for the love that he felt for Lucrezia,and the love that she felt for him.
It was doomed for they are both brother and sister, but they could not be satisfied with anybody else especially Cesare.
He was very controlling, possessive, angry, and ambitious.
But they were both manipulative possessive, and vengeful.
To her credit, Lucrezia did try escaping the family, but it was too late.
It is a must read, and I urge other people to read this book.

The greatest disappointment is that Lucrezia became such a weak creature, completely dominated by her love for her brother and father to such an extent that her own happiness and destiny are thwarted.
In the previous volume, Lucrezia's own innocence was a strength to her, protecting her from the Borgia "taint." However, in this volume Lucrezia has no more innocence: she's aware of the evilness of her brother and the cunning of her father.
Stripped of her innocence and left powerless by the death of her father, the reader can see that this author's version of Lucrezia Borgia is a spineless, weak-willed, insipid girl who had the good fortune to be born beautiful.
What I've learned from Madonna of the Seven Hills and Light on Lucrezia is that this girl was stained by the reputation of her infamous family.
It took me a very long time to get into this book.
I got bogged down with the repetition of events (I mean really do I need a full report every time she washes her hair?) and the on/off switch of her grief.
Several pages devoted to detailing Lucrezia's grief...until a handsome man shows up and then that grief is forgotten.
The character grows somewhat as life and tragedy force her to do, but she never really becomes a woman in her own right.
She remains foremost at the mercy of the men in her life.
What I did find fascinating was the world in which she lived and the ruthlessness of her family, and rulers of city states in Italy at that time.
Without giving way to spoilers, it is difficult to write much more, except to say that Light on Lucrezia was fascinating, and I definitely recommend it.
I found this to be a fascinating read even though the characters seemed a little one dimensional.
This probably is indicative more of myh lack of knowledge of the historical period than of the book itself, so the book did a good job in terms of sparking my interest in reading more about the Borgias and their rule of Rome.
Like many of Plaidy's novels, repetition of some passages intended to emphasize particular facets of characters' personalities or elements of the story actually detracts from the development of the plot.
I look forward to re-evaluating this book after learning more about the Borgias and the political structure and day-to-day operation of the Vatican.
Hmmm Well this book was actually pretty boring at times. I got confused with all the different characters and Plaidy seemed to repeat whole paragraphs here and there. Not one of Plaidy's best I don't think but this is only my 2nd. It seems as if she just wanted to quickly tell the rest of Lucrezia Borgia's life and there wasn't much effort or thought put into it. I did enjoy it at times because I think this time period in Italy is fascinating and the Borgia's are legendary. Plus the book seemed a longer than its 350 pages...
There is nothing I could say to explain how I felt about this book. There just aren't any words near to fill the role.I could try...I loved this book. That is still not good enough to say.Even though I didn't agree with some of the events in this book I loved it. I don't think I will ever forget about it. I loved all the Borgia characters in the book and somehow their love for one another filled me with great joy. They really were special, believe me.
This book shows Lucrezia Borgia in a different light. Not as the poisoner and one who committed incest with her brother and father but as a pawn in the game of both her family and the family she married into. Lucrezia is portrayed as weak . Two of the men who Lucrezia really loves are murdered by her brother and yet Lucrezia love for her brother remains strong but this is a brother - sister love and not the other kind of love.
This book was so boring that after about 50 pages I decided to just "lightly" skim the rest of the book. I was interested in the story, but not how it was written. First time Victoria Holt has let me down (Jean Plaidy is a pseudo).
Very fast read. Really enjoyed the story of Lucrezia. From all I ever knew about her she was the wicked relation of Catherine de Medici... But in reality it sounds like she lead a very sad life. Loved it.
