https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/637654.The_Drama_of_Atheist_Humanism
I was given this book several Christmases ago back in my apologetics craze.
First, Henri de Lubac gives a thorough (if at times dense) analysis of the major atheist leaders: Marx, Feurbach, and Comte, Comte providing a foil for a brief Christian response.The next section is on Dostoevsky the prophet.
Compares and contrasts Nietszche.The final section is “Search for a New Man.” The first part of this is rather good.
He gives several brief, short critiques of “progressivism” and ends with a plea for a new Christian Humanism.
De Lubac's presentation of the atheistic humanism of Feuerbach, Nietzsche and Marx is masterful in presenting their philosophies free of the appendages of those who would later claim them (at times seeing themselves as heirs while warping the originator). Feuerbach, Nietzsche and Sartre putting forth the strongest/bluntest atheist worldviews. De Lubac's Christian responses are insightful and separate enough to be substantial, rather than building/fighting strawmen. The section on Comte gets weird, a reflection on the man more than the author. The section on Dostoevsky makes you want to quit everything and bury yourself in Russian literature.
I learned so much from this book not only about the history of humanism, but also about the roots of atheistic thought today.
I found this book so relevant to our current times.
I found the section on Comte and positivism and the chapters The Search for a New Man and Nietche as Mystic particularly riveting.
This book exposed me to many schools of thought that I knew little about and gave me a greater understanding of atheism today, all with the excellent commentary and Catholic perspective of Henri De Lubac.
He explores atheist humanism thoroughly and is incredibly respectful of the men and ideas he writes about.
Committing to reading this 500 page tome is like commiting to running a marathonIt took longer than I would have liked to read this because I got bogged down in the end in the Experience of Eternity and Search for a New Man chapters (pages 347-398 and 399-468 respectively).
Essentially, part 4, which is an extended conclusion, is a slow wade through the mud and much of the positive "answers" offered in response to the criticisms of Atheism (Feuerbach, Nietzsche, Comte and Marx) seem dated.
A very good book.
For the most part the book seeks to describe the various atheist traditions: Nietzsche, Feuerbach/Marx, and Comte; but this is in many ways merely a lead-up to his discussion of Dostoyevsky and Nietzsche as prophets who understood the trajectory of the modern project, Dostoyevsky in the positive sense and Nietzsche in the negative.
The only real argument section of the book, entitled The Search for the New Man, is classic de Lubac and appropriately excellent.
While not the best-wrought of his books (Catholicism and The Mystery of the Supernatural, in my opinion), this is a very detailed 'meditation' on the nature of atheism, showing with much quotation that its 19th century prophets were also its greatest destroyers.
right before she was famous, brevity ensnared; sewage plant: Karl Comte, Inc.
I've wanted to read this book for many years, and finally purchased it to do so.
It is rare to find someone as charitable and fair as de Lubac is in analyzing and critiquing the "Four Horsemen" of 19th century atheism: Comte, Feuerbach, Marx, and Nietzsche.
De Lubac shows the appeal of their theories, and is careful to point out where their analyses, claims and criticisms are correct.
Definitely worth reading if you are interested in 19th century philosophy, atheism, religion, and such.
But do go and actually read Comte, Feuerbach, Marx, and Nietzsche on your own and draw your own conclusions.
This book was an excellent introduction to the writings of Marx, Nietzche, Comte, and Dostoevsky.
It tells a story of the development of atheist thought and it's answer from Dostoevsky, a man who wrestled with faith throughout his life and yet ultimately sides with Christ.The book analyzes each authors' bibliographies at a high level, mixing in history and biography to tell a coherent story.
Ultimately what this book made me want to do is read Nietzche, read Dostoevsky, and read Kierkegaard.
That's what this book makes you want to do anyway.
Tre saggi memorabili di De Lubac: su Nietzsche (e Feuerbach), Comte e Dostoevskij.
Profetico nel cogliere le implicazioni più remote del pensiero del primo; meno interessante sul secondo, ma in fondo perché meno conosciuto; appassionante nella sua analisi di Dostoevskij, presentato come l'anti-Nietzsche ante litteram.
Mostra come lo scrittore russo si sarebbe calato negli stessi inferni del folle tedesco, descrivendoli con spaventosa lucidità, ma uscendone alla fine con la risposta di una fede profonda e sofferta, invece della orgogliosa e disperata affermazione di sé di Nietzsche.
Un capolavoro del pensiero cristiano contemporaneo.
Consiglio senz'altro di leggere la prima e la terza parte.
This shows us the genius of de Lubac in terms of articulatig the philosophical tradition of his time and his Christian response to it. Going through the atheist humanisms of his time, he sees how they bring out fundamental values but in the end leads us nowhere because of the rejection not necessarily of God but of transcendence and mystery. Not for apoligetic people, but for those who consider seriously the faith given one's own human condition, that is, existentially.
Certainly there were many philosophical, theological, socio-economical, historical, and political concepts brought up in this book that went over my head. But every few pages there was a gem-a sentence, a paragraph-that stopped you dead in your tracks and beckoned you to pause and reflect on the great mysteries of life. A challenging but rewarding read.
Interesante libro donde se nos explica humanamente la existencia o no De Dios
