https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126066.The_Sacred_Romance_Drawing_Closer_To_The_Heart_Of_God
My mother gave me this book several years ago, and I never found the time to read it.
Do we accept the quest and the risk that comes with it?
and discover that, as this book states, we "cannot outdream God"?Go ahead and read it.
I dare you to take the risk because you're worth it.
I just finished this book for the second time, just in time to read it again.
i love the book so much because it falls naturally in line with my own normal way of thinking.
For me the overlying theme of the book is: God loves you and every good, pure thing in your life is from God and to His purposes.
This book will change the way you view God. Our relationship with God occurs in the heart, not in the church alone, but in the way we are created in relation to the way our emotions respond to the rest of creation.
And it made me want to read everything Eldredge has ever written.One of the fundamental ideas in Eldredge’s writing is that humans were made for more than the mundane and drab; instead, we were made for joy and gloriousness and beauty.
For years, I’ve braced myself against the church’s teachings about things like homosexuality because I did not fundamentally believe that God wanted us to invest all this energy in telling people who they shouldn’t be.
If you’re not a Believer but would like to read about a God who loves you because you’re tired of a church who puts your behavior before your person, this book is for you.
I have grown up in the Church; I've heard the Gospel and thousands of incredible sermons; I've read Joyce Meyer books and been to one of her conferences; I've been a leader at a religious nonprofit organization; I've fasted, prayed, tried reading my Bible from cover to cover.....you know....the list goes on and on.But I've been praying for God to reveal His heart to me in a way I've not experienced before, and for Him to show me who He truly is--not what American Christianese Culture says he is.
Don't read this book. Please.Fine ideas. Repetitious and drooling with emotionalism, seeking charismatic highs in disregard for fair interpretation of scripture.
The most moving and relevant book I've ever read. Put everything into crystal clear perspective. My faith was multiplied and nurtured reading this.
There are two ways of handling that desire we feel deep in our hearts.
Others try to kill their hearts so that they no longer feel pain and consequently also give up on transcendent joy.
This books points the reader to Christ, the object of our longing and desire, which can never be satisfied here on earth.
As someone who prefers for life to keep an even keel, I found it a challenging idea to be open for longing and pain, allowing it to draw me closer to my Savior.
I'd rather read the Bible.
C.S. Lewis's answer (quoted in this book) is, “If we find ourselves with a desire that nothing in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that we were made for another world.” In The Sacred Romance, Eldredge and Curtis argue that a relationship with God is like nothing so much as a romance with a perfect lover, in which God woos us with beauty, while Satan sows doubt in our hearts about God's nature.
Eldredge and Curtis make a very good argument for why it is so hard for us to live like this is true, though: the Message of the Arrows, as they call Satan's attempts to get us to doubt, is compelling.
My takeaway: This life is reality.
It doesn’t need to be numbed.
The ache and longing we feel for intimacy, beauty, and adventure is real and will be fulfilled and we can look forward to that promise some day, and in the meantime acknowledge those desires.
The beginning was pretty straightforward and could even be a little dated with the pop culture examples used, and I haven’t much liked Eldredge’s writing in the past, but I was in tears by the end of this book multiple times.
Exactly what I needed to hear at this time in my life.
It was truly beautiful!
This one is a mixed bag for me. On the one hand, it took me about a year to finish it, with months of breaks in the middle...but when I did pick it up again, it was deeply encouraging and led me to encountering God in ways I hadn't in years. I probably will never read it again, but near the end particularly there are a few gems of quotes that I want to keep.
It framed our lives in terms of the Romance (beauty, wonder, hope, God) and the Message of the Arrows (pain and enduring messages of failure/self-defeating or harmful mantras that we "learn" from past hurts), and talks about how God is a "wild" lover in the sense that God allows people to choose whether or not to love God, and also seems to allow pain or tragic events that we don't understand.
As God's Word speaks to every individual in a way that is most meaningful to you at a given time, God placed this book in my hands as I struggled to prepare a talk for a men's weekend.
The topic of my talk was Prevenient Grace, something that I, nor many of my friends, knew anything about.This book brought the whole concept into a real perspective of God's endless and tireless pursuit of each person in an effort to have a relationship with us.Often we wonder why we do not hear or feel the urging of the Holy Spirit.
THE SACRED ROMANCE IS ALL ABOUT DRAWING US NEARER TO GOD'S OWN HEART.I FOUND THIS READING VERY PROFOUND IN HOW THE AUTHOR "JOHN ELDREDGE" PORTRAY'S EACH EVENT IN USING SCRIPTURE BASED WISDOM AND KNOWLEDGE, TO ADD INTO OUR OWN RELATIONSHIPS IN CHRIST.IT WAS ALWAYS VERY HARD TO PUT THE BOOK DOWN, WHEN IT WAS TIME FOR SUPPER OR BED.
:-) I CAN SAY SINCE THIS READING ABOUT DRAWING CLOSER AND BEING "HOLY SPIRIT" LED.
THIS READING LEADS EACH OF US WHO READS IT, TO LOOK INTO OUR OWN LIVES/MARRIAGES/RELATIONSHIPS, IN HOW TO MAKE THEM MORE PRODUCTIVE AND CHRISTLIKE.
A SPIRIT LED ROMANCE YOU WILL REMEMBER FOR THE REST OF YOUR LIFE.
I got to page 4 or 5.
Jesus referred to as he instead of He and Satan spelled with a capital S...hmm.
My savior is He, capital H.
If this book speaks to you, ask yourself whom is speaking cause it isn't God!
It does not line up with scripture yet the title is captivating because I know the Lord does want us to be so close to Him...but this book has the details wrong wrong wrong.
I skimmed through the rest of the book looking for scripture (accurate scripture) and found little.
It isn't Christianity at all.
Overall, I liked this book by John Eldredge and Brent Curtis, but there were a few things about it that didn't keep my attention. There were a lot of metaphors in the beginning. It's almost as if the authors were trying too hard. But what I liked most about the book was how we can get caught up in the things of the world and place God on the back burner. I loved what they had to write about that.
Healing my arrow pierced heart.This book spoke directly to my heart. The would definitely that I have suffered from the arrows that have pierced my heart, damaging it, and preventing me from seeing myself as God sees me. Which also affected my ability to have the closeness, the intimacy and relationship that God wants to have with me. This book helped and guided me to be able to heal and remember who I am, and to have that Sacred Romance with God .
This book really helped me to start seeing God as my lover, someone who cares about my deepest feelings and wants an intimate relationship with me more than anyone else in the world. This book brings up feelings in me that I am still trying to process, so I cannot, at this time, write a proper review.
I've read this book twice in ten years-and thanks to a presumable bad memory, I enjoyed it more the second time. I love this book. Curtis/Eldredge beautifully articulate the Heart of the Struggle. I have not read a comparable illustration of the Journey of Heart that the God of the Universe is calling us into; echoed and mirrored all around us. #bravo #beautiful #identify
Just taught through this book for a University course on Old Testament, Narrative, and Law - it was a delight to see the lights go one (though hard for some) to our Fathers heart for us and our need for the same! Enjoy!
A great resource for understanding your relationship with God. A cautionary tale about how current secular society drains our spirituality and confidence in the Almighty. Every Christian should periodically read a book like this so you don't forget the goal of your spiritual journey.
This isn't for everyone, but if its where you're at, it speaks volumes. It was hard for me to wrap my mind around such "poetic" writing, which is a bit mushy, but it rang true for me and it always sets my head and heart on a better path.
The first of a series. John Elderidge's first step, unfortunately Brent Curtis's last. (he died shortly after in a rock climbing accident.)
i borrowed this from my mother before she read it, read it myself, and sold it. i think i did her a favor.
Once you have God's Word, everything else (even the most well-intended works) PALES in comparison.
I like the way John Eldredge writes and thinks, but I did not quite realize how similar all of his books seem to be.
Having already read Wild at Heart and Captivating many years ago, I found The Sacred Romance to be strikingly like an early draft of both books.
Either way, I felt like I had read this book before.
Although I do enjoy his romantic, rugged vision of faith, I found that less of that vision resonated with me this time at 35 years old, as compared to when I read Wild at Heart in my early 20s.
"The Sacred Romance" was a transformative book for me.
Here's the thing: I encountered this book at a point in my spiritual journey where I was saying, "there must be more to following Jesus than 'being good,' whatever that is." This book led me to the heart of the matter, which is that God pursues each one of us, always and forever, for no other reason than that he loves each of us and delights in each of us.
Maybe a trip through "The Sacred Romance" would reveal something to you about God's passion for you?
It took me over a month to finish this because of all the re-reading I did!
I love the way the authors portray life as a story--fairy-tale like, offering explanations for how we end up in our own "lesser stories" rather than the one created for us by The Author and Perfector of our faith.
I guarantee reading this book will change the way you view your relationship with God!
I'll end by sharing one of my favorite quotes from the book, "If God is the Pursuer, the Ageless Romancer, the Lover, then there has to be a Beloved, one who is the Pursued.
I appreciate Eldridge's books for the way they speak to the heart.
Often Christian books are about knowing / thinking or doing.
The Sacred Romance speaks the language of the heart in a compelling way.
The way he equates our relationship with Christ as a romance gets at the heart of God being a lover.
However in his attempt to paint a picture of God as a romantic pursuer he uses some language that borders on open theism.
While I don't think that is where he lands theologically, it could be deceptive for those that aren't aware of that conversation.
Much deep & encouraging material in this book, but the thread that would hold it together, as in starting at a beginning & progressing toward a goal, was not clear. I kept asking, where are they going with this? At several points, however, the authors offered a perspective that touched me deeply. Glad to have read it but not recommending it to any but serious readers. It helped that I read it a little at a time over several weeks.
