https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118285.Live_or_Die

But I don't like this one-note morose poetry.
It doesn't matter that she ends the book with "Live", a rallying call to get through it.
It's sad that this was obviously her way of convincing herself to live, but that doesn't make her poetry not a chore."Confession, while good for the soul, may become tiresome for the reader if not accompanied by the suggestion that something is being held back....
In [ Live or Die ] Miss Sexton's toughness approaches affectation.
the performance is less interesting the third time, despite the poet's high level of technical competence." ~ Poetry FoundationI don't object to solemnity in poetry.
I do object to moping.
Privata dikter om psykisk sjukdom. Avslutas med två fina, vändande rader som en motivering till livet.
"But suicides have a special language.Like carpenters they want to know which tools.They never ask why build."This collection is really just all DIE. Her 'Love Poems' are more LIVE.I liked these, many are clear descriptions of losing sanity, willpower, feeling, someone...But I prefer her 'Love Poems', because I get a kick out of Sexton's explicit and strong yearning in her poems, and I find this was more captivating in her poems for love than those for death.Favorites: Flee On Your DonkeyWanting To Die
Live or Die is Anne Sexton's fourth collection of poetry. I'd not read any of her work before, but had a feeling that I would love it. There were some poems here which I didn't much like, I must admit, but others far made up for them. There are so many interesting ideas and themes at play throughout, and her tribute to Sylvia Plath was quite beautiful. The downside for me was that there was too much religious imagery included for my personal liking.
[...]I wanted to write such a poemwith such musics, such guitars going;I tried at the teeth of soundto draw up such legions of noise;I tried at the breakwaterto catch the star off each ship;and at the closing of handsI looked for their housesand silences.I found just one.you were mineand I lent you out.I look for uncomplicated hymnsbut love has none.
Painfully sensitive, horribly depressing, joyful and heart-wrenching... I read this a lot as a teen
"I say Live, Live because of the sun, the dream, the excitable gift."This collection was so raw and so complete I loved it. Her struggles with choosing to live or die is fascinating and I love how she chose life at the end. Tragic how death won out for her (through herself) in the end. Favorites: The Sun, Three Green Windows, Somewhere in Africa, Imitations of drowning, Love Song, Those Times..., Sylvia's Death, For the Year of the Insane, Menstruation at Forty, KE 6-8018, Wanting to Die, Self in 1958, Suicide Note, Cripples and Other Stories, The Addict, Live.
My favourite of the bunch was The Addict.
This was so cool because Sexton was an author living in Boston, so I knew all these places she was mentioning. Anyway, these poems were highly autobiographical and I think she was contemplating suicide and they felt really relevant. While working on this volume her friend Sylvia Plath died and some other people and I feel like I could understand her. All these poems just went by so quickly, but the last one was titled "Live" and it was so affirmative.
No words.«Traficante de sueños,traficante de muerte,con pastillas en mis manos cada noche,ocho a la vez sacadas de dulces botes de farmacia,hago los preparativos para un corto viaje,soy la reina de este estado.Soy experta en hacer el viaje invictay ahora dicen que soy una adicta.Ahora me preguntan por qué.¡Por qué seguir!»Live or Die.Die. Die. Die.
আমি তারে আদর করে বলি এনি। মৃতযুর পরতি যে টান অথবা বাঁচার পরতি তার থেকেই তো পরিচয় তার সাথে। "লিভ অর ডাই ডনট পয়েজন এভরিথিং" এইটারে অকসিজেন মনে হয় আমার। পরতিটা কবিতা আমি মনে রাখি কবিতার ভেতর এনি যেসব রং এর কথা বলে তাও গেঁথে রেখে দেই।
আমি তারে আদর করে বলি এনি। মৃত্যুর প্রতি যে টান অথবা বাঁচার প্রতি তার থেকেই তো পরিচয় তার সাথে। "লিভ অর ডাই ডন্ট পয়েজন এভ্রিথিং" এইটারে অক্সিজেন মনে হয় আমার। প্রতিটা কবিতা আমি মনে রাখি কবিতার ভেতর এনি যেসব রং এর কথা বলে তাও গেঁথে রেখে দেই।
my favourite poem by far is 'wanting to die'
I like her nursery rhymes.
In "Live or Die" Sexton marries Christian ceremony with the psychiatric worship of chemical self help. The result is a tragic anthem of communion, uncertain worship and unknowing provenance.
I opened my copy to find her NYT obit. Such a beautiful, gifted, young woman. So sad.
VENAS DE MARTINILa canción Mercy Street, del álbum So del cantante Peter Gabriel, inspirada a su vez en el poema 45 Mercy Street de la escritora estadounidense Anne Sexton, me puso sobre la pista que desembocó en la conexión entre la propia Sexton y Sylvia Plath –una conexión que iba mucho más lejos de sus respectivos suicidios-.En 1959 se consideraba a Robert Lowell el poeta más notable de los Estados Unidos.
Sylvia Plath se interesó por la obra de Lowell ya que era víctima de crisis nerviosas, como ella en el pasado, y decidió apuntarse al seminario en donde, finalmente, coincidieron ella y Sexton.En esa época, Anne Sexton era animosa y locuaz, relativamente novata en la poesía y en las clases de creación literaria.
At the first reading, I felt that the Live or Die was a step back from All My Pretty Ones.
Since the poems are arranged in chronological order, that talent isn't used in Live or Die. Live or Die feels a little false, the poems were not precisely written in order they appear - based on Middlebrook's biography.
The book ends with Live - given Sexton's suicide - that's feels a little fake too.
Sylvia's Death is illuminating because before Plath's suicide, Sexton was the stronger poet.
Reading Middlebrook's biography along side the poems in this period is further illuminating.
I first heard of Anne Sexton after reading her poem "When Man Enters Woman." I checked out 'Live or Die' because that was the only poetry collection the library had available.
I am very particular about poetry and if there are any hints of cliche writing, I quickly stop reading the collection.
Anne Sexton's poems had none of those.
The themes of 'Live or Die' are death (obviously), sex, femininity, and childbirth.
All in all, I would definitely love to have my own copy of 'Live or Die.' It was a collection that surprisingly was relaxing to read and left me feeling peaceful.
3.75 - I don't deny that Sexton is a skilled poet, but rounded down because she's really not my style and a lot of it just didn't resonate with me.
Although to be fair the fixation on death is super relatable, thanks Sexton.
A lot of the "eh, can't sympathize that much" might also come from the fact that while I am totally aware you can like the writing of a person who's said/done terrible things without condoning those things or liking the person (hi, Neruda!), a poem like "Little Girl, My String Bean, My Lovely Woman" is a lot harder to stomach knowing that the daughter she's writing about is one she sexually abused.Anyway, in terms of confessional poetry, I enjoyed Ariel a lot more.
I cannot believe it took me nine whole days to finish this book.
I am glad it took me nine whole days to finish it.
I have loved the chronological order that the poems have followed; it gave me a sense of what the author felt through consecutive periods of time.
But even the poems that have discussed themes that I have yet to encounter in life as a woman – that is, if I ever do – the way they were displayed within the poems gave me a sense of familiarity, almost as if I had already went through these experiences myself.
This collection has grown on me over the years, its contents cohering as the distillation of four years in a troubled life, with Anne Sexton's unsweetened psychic excavations periodically interrupted by the loss of a friend ("Sylvia's Death"), a yearly holiday ("Christmas Eve") or even the injury experienced by a child ("Pain for a Daughter"). There's a constant rigor to the digging here which may explain why this queen of the confession so often strikes gold.
An emotionally heavy collection of poetry that captures the uncertainty and despair of depression. These poems do a great job of conveying the feelings of the author and the life events and inner conflicts she is writing about. Full of emotion and reflecting the influences in the authors life, her family, her religion, her children, I can see how this work helped the author work through her personal challenges. I would rate this book 3.5 stars if Goodreads allowed half stars.
I’m sorry. I just can’t make myself care about these flaccid prosy ruminations. Sometimes the images are sharp, but the context is still the jagged psychological loathing—a kind of writing I especially dislike, and not in this case redeemed by good enough writing. I quit not quite halfway. Maybe I’ll try to finish it later.
I know that these were published and intended for people to experience for themselves aside from whatever the author went through to create them, but I still can't help feeling a little guilty for enjoying so much a product of Ms. Sexton's emotions and tribulations. These were raw and heartbreaking poems and I'm glad to have come across them.
I struggled with what rating to give this book. It's stark and beautiful. It's sad and often painful. It's tragic and real. In the end, I decided that any discomfort I might have felt with some of her poems was a good thing. She succeeded in making me feel something, and that kind of emotional resonance is what I'm looking for in poetry.
The KnifeWords are a knife, that can cure you or cut you. Or perhaps in Sexton's hand they were a lethal toy, which she could, but won't use, not just yet.Cutting, confessional, very personal words from someone who desperately wanted to speak, but certainly could not speak of what she lived in polite society.Not an easy read, but a gripping self portrait, or a series of them.
Exquisite verses bridge topics that were controversial at the time writer lived. Offbeat and drugged sounding voice. Author was friends with Plath as seen in writing.Ending verse..."I say Live, Live because of the sun, the dream, the excitable gift."
This collection serves as a fantastic introduction to Sexton's work.
this was depressing and despite my mental illness I can no longer relate to Sylvia Plath or Ann Sexton.
