https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27003.The_Eyre_Affair
I read this years ago, I think it was back around 2005 or so.
"This is probably really popular, isn't it?" My friend, who worked in a bookstore, said that no, actually, it wasn't all that popular.
Worse than that, I think it shows that I was getting a bit twisted up inside because of my inability to get my book published.
Back then, all I knew is that I wasn't published *yet* and because of that, I was getting a little bitter.
Short version: If you're a recovering English major, or if you're just well read, odds are you're going to enjoy this book.
And it would have been better served by not being written in first person, especially since it kept slipping into other people's heads when it should have been in Thursday's.
Also, Thursday is really boring and doesn't have an interesting voice, and I didn't care about her at all (and, ick, that moment where she gets out her mirror and contemplates her looks).
The only one I really liked was Thursday's father, and he barely had anything to do with anything.
Maybe the writing gets better in later books, but I don't think I'll give them a chance.Very disappointing.
This book may describe my perfect job goal: to be able to enter a book and meet the characters, ensuring they are following the author's original intentions and not "on-the-loose" due to some sort of villain. How amazing would that be? Awesome kick start to this series... I read the first 4 then started to get a little disenchanted, but I'll go back one day! All book lovers need to give this first one a chance -- you'll undoubtedly love and hate parts of it!
Really enjoyed the inventiveness of Jasper Fforde's The Eyre Affair.
The premise of the story is that original manuscripts can be stolen and then changed, not just that manuscript, but all copies of say, Jane Eyre.
Thus, these original manuscripts are viewed as absolute treasures.
There are also literary portals which intersect with the 'real world' which make it possible to change what happens in our favorite novel.
In Fforde's novel, our heroine, Thursday Next, tracks down a master criminal, a manuscript and interacts with the characters of Jane Eyre.
However, the story unabashedly takes a backseat to literary puns and allusions and simple craziness.
If a book is written in first-person, and you really, REALLY want us to know what the character looks like, it is textbook cliche to have her pull out a mirror and describe what she sees.
Seriously, no one answers an investigator's question of, "So what happened next," by saying, "'What do you think you're doing?' I said.
'It's time for me to make my exit,' he answered with a smile." People write books like that.
At the same time, I was struck by how nonchalantly he presented the large and potentially confusing differences between our world and his.
Here are some rough examples of what I’ve come to expect when I read a ho-hum book contrasted with the twists, both small and large, that Fforde introduced.
Received: Thursday boarded the airship for a trip home.Example 4Expected: Theresa opened the book and sat down for a nice, afternoon read.
Or if you want to invest your time just understanding the big points and push past the nuances, you’ll still come away satisfied.
This is so much fun.
And, as it happens, I have a surprisingly good opening.
So, with the usual perfunctory apologies, may I presentThe Meyre Affair: a Thursday Next storyThe hardest part is telling them they're fictional.
After that, the rest is usually easy.
- Thursday Next, A Life in SpecOpsI could start this story at any number of points, but I will choose the moment when I knocked on Manny Rayner's front door.
Nothing happened, so I knocked again.
He opened it.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
I loved this book when I first picked it up and remember giggling the whole way through. (It was passed over to me by the Mum, of all people. We do not, normally, share the same taste in literature.) It has a charming irreverent take on... well... everything from literature to history. It's set in an alternate reality where literature is, if not kind, at least very very significant.
You need a love and knowledge of classic literature to know what is our reality and what is an alternative (e.g. whether or not Jane Eyre does marry Rochester), but having those characteristics would seem to me to make one unlikely to enjoy this, though as that is clearly not the case, I am in a minority and evidently missing something.It has a surprisingly colloquial narrative style for a self-consciously "literary" book; jarring Americanisms (a "parking lot") for a British book; basic grammatical errors (using "flaunt" instead of "flout"); too much exposition is delivered in clichéd ways (e.g. a police interview); ludicrous names (Jack Schitt, Acheron Hades (a baddie), Thursday Next, Victor Analogy, a vampire called Stoker, Edmund Capillary and Landen Park-Laine) and even sillier futuristic inventions (pizza by fax and a 2B pencil with built in spell check).
The literature is a very serious business, time travel is nothing of the ordinary which comes with all the fun and paradoxes and cloning works wonders making people's favorite pets out of these guys:The heroine Thursday Next is a special operative working for literary detection dealing with such heinous crimes as forging of a poem of a classic, theft of highly valued original manuscripts, and copyright violations.
Thursday soon learns that "Lost in a good book" is more than just a nice saying:The only reason I rated this book with 3 stars instead of 2 is the discussion with my buddy readers which turned out to be great fun.
And the author manages to create an entire alternate world, which is something I often enjoy in books when it’s done well, and it’s done exceedingly well here, and with a lot of whimsy.
I am now a Jasper Fforde fan: he really pulled off a unique feat in creating this book/series.
I especially enjoyed the portions of the book that were told with Thursday’s voice.
My guess is that a reader would have had to enjoy at least one book from each of the genres listed above to enjoy reading it as much as I did.
:)I kinda expected something like a UF first-person mystery novel with magical elements where characters jump out of the pages of books and make a mess of things, or vice-versa, where we jump in and make a hash of a perfectly good story, but I didn't expect the novel to have a lot of complicated character elements in our main characters, a nicely complicated plot that continues to twist and turn through a LOT more than just the Bronte Society or Jane, herself.And what might be better?
:)This is some really cool fun that reads like a mystery turned into a spy novel, full of magical and SF moments, and a huge focus on characters.
Buddy read with the ever amazing Jessica, Evgeny, Catherine, Kristi,, Asya & Tanya and running commentary with oOSarahOo and Ashley who announced they are stalking our thread (not very good at stalking since we know they are there) over at Buddies Books and Baubles Think about your favorite book…the one you would live in if you could…the one you would never ever get tired of or want leave. Do you have it firmly in your mind??? Now imagine a world where others love books as much as you and th
On the word “ summer” six hundred people placed sunglasses on and looked up at an imaginary sun.✘ Thursday also has a father whose face it seems could stop time like literally.
It would still be pretty enjoyable if you didn’t know a lot about most of the books mentioned but it is a little more fun if you are in on the hidden gems.The plot really didn’t start happening until the second half of the book but I was having such a good time with all the fantastical gadgets, references and happenings that I didn’t really care.However I totally enjoyed myself and liked the little bit of romance, chase of the bad guy and trip through the pages of Jane Eyre.
Dead British authors are like celebrities in Fforde's England.
Really, how very quaint.)The scene that really put me off, and which should have inspired me to quit the novel, was the performance of a Rocky Horror version of Richard III, after which a couple of the characters discuss how much they love classic literature.
Fforde is like a lobotomized Borges, finding ways to dumb down the literature he loves instead of finding new and interesting depths.So, sorry, just did not enjoy this novel.
Carpet bomb Fforde's England with copies of every major modernist and postmodernist work from the last century.
Eventually (three-quarters of the way through the novel), the main event occurs: an English professor gone bad kidnaps Jane Eyre from page 100-something of the original manuscript, erasing the text of the remaining pages from all copies of the book and causing millions of Jane Eyre fans to come out of the woodwork and hold weepy candlelight vigils.Our heroine, LiteraTec (literary detective) Thursday Next, must restore Jane to her rightful place in the novel, keep the evil villian away from Miss Eyre, and supervise the plot from inside the book as the book "rewrites" itself.
Some people (like me) love it to death, others really hate it and some just sit in the middle.
I guess you have to enjoy Fforde's particular sense of humour.This was a reread for me but the last time I read it was so long ago the book, when I dug it off my shelf, had turned a yellowy brown colour.
Still a five star read for me and now I have read it again I want to carry on and read the rest of them even if they all have yellowy brown pages!
It is a great genre for those intrigued by the issues raised in science-fiction, but who do not care for the more hard-edged fetishes of that particular genre (the spaceships, the lasers, the aliens); because ultimately speculative fiction relies a lot more on real history and sociology for its ultimate entertainment value than most traditional sci-fi, making it a good place to regularly find big crossover hits.One such hit, for example, has turned out to be the delightful 2002 speculative novel The Eyre Affair, by the Douglas-Adamsesque Jasper Fforde; it has in fact inspired an entire series of popular novels since then set in the same speculative universe, collectively known as the "Thursday Next" series because of its main protagonist.
I wanted to like it, it sounded like a good idea, but I didn't.---------------------------------------Okay, I've tried to read this three times before and could never get into it.
My wife liked it and so did several others I know so....got the audio this time and I'll try again.
Some parts I find yawningly and (as noted before) groaningly slow.Will I try another Thursday Next novel????
This is not a noir style detective story set in a big city underworld.
This is a fun romp set in a Thatcherless Britain complete with time travel, genetically resurrected dodo birds, a Crimeean War that has been going on for more than 100 years, huge zeppelins instead of planes, crazy inventor uncles and lost in time fathers, street gangs made of bookclub members fighting for the good name of their favorite author, costume opera archenemies and about 30 secret police organizations.
That got tiring after a scene or two, and so I couldn't work up enough energy to care about any of them and thus spent much of the read counting how many pages were left.I think my biggest obstacle in this book was the main character herself.
They're all fine, I suppose, but easy to forget.While I can see why this book is a hit with fans of Brit lit (all those puns), the only thing that still stands out to me is the way in which the ending of Jane Eyre is explained and worked into the plot.
But, Lisa is right, you do not have to know anything about Jane Eyre to understand this book.I am thankful to Lisa, and to Goodreads, because I probably would have never stumbled upon this delightful book otherwise, as I rarely visit the SF shelves at the library.I only found one annoyance while reading--"their" is used at one point where it should have been "there".
(Example: the audience shouts "When is the winter of our discontent?" just before the actor playing Richard intones "Now is the winter of our discontent.")2.
The answer is, of course, that I use omitted prepositions, of which, when mixed with dropped definite articles make a nourishing food.
Journey's End, for instance, has one omitted preposition and two definite articles: the end of the journey.
This has been sitting on the shelf for a while, and I finally got around to it. I’m glad I did. A wacky alternate reality tale for literature buffs, The Eyre Affair introduces LiteraTec detective Thursday Next, who must prevent a madman from kidnapping Jane Eyre out of her novel and destroying Charlotte Bronte’s work. Dodos for pets, vampire hunters, hot air balloon transports, time travel, Baconian extremists . . . This book is a wild, eccentric ride. If you liked The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, I recommend this book.
‘Plock-plock,’ said Pickwick nervously as the inspector expertly clipped the large brass ring around his ankle."However, inconceivable as it may sound, there is much more to enjoy in this book, because as it turned out, this is not a book about dodos, but about a world in which time travel is possible and - hold on to your hats - where it is possible to enter books and physically meet characters.
I am willing, out of appreciation for your obvious love of literature, to give the next book in your series a try and hope that it resolves itself in a more coherent fashionBefore closing, I will say that (view spoiler)[ the idea that  Jane Eyre originally ended with her marrying (ugh) St. John Rivers, and only through Thursday’s intervention was the novel rewritten to reunite Jane and Rochester, (hide spoiler)] was a stroke of genius.
Our heroine, Thursday Next, is a member of Special Branch #27 for literature.
She's self-effacing, has an extraordinarily complicated personal life, a pet dodo (version 1.2), a father on the run from the Chrono cops, & a slightly mad inventor for an uncle.
(The dodo complicates her life very little.) She's veteran of Crimea & was a cop for a while, so when Acheron Hades starts threatening literature, she's tenacious in tracking him down & setting things back to rights despite all.
If you're familiar with Jane Eyre, you might think you'll know what happens.
Well, you'll have a clue, but it probably won't happen the way you think.
I am definitely an Anglophile.
I have no issue with a bit of time travel or people and characters moving in and out of literary favorites.
I am willing to suspend my disbelief in service of such a good read.
This is definitely an alternate reality, a police state of sorts but with this literary difference.This really was a romp!
I enjoy the concept of the flexibility of the novels we read, that they can be warped or altered by malevolent forces.
I have a feeling that reading these books too closely together or too frequently would diminish the enjoyment.
There were several points during it where I couldn't believe that this was a final draft, because I've rarely seen a published novel more in need of a good editor.
There were several clunkers which made me wince, because I really don't think that they were metafictional observations on the inevitable artificiality of all dialogue.A mess, made all the more disappointing because this could potentially had been a really enjoyable read, if a good editor had been set to work on it.
It was time to be able to say that I had given it a try.I do think that a passing familiarity with Jane Eyre would be a good thing before picking up this novel, but even if you’ve never even read the blurb of JE, you should still be able to find some amusement within.
I loved the pet dodos, the People’s Republic of Wales, the “new” ending to Jane Eyre, debates about Shakespeare, and the Literary Forces, among other details.
Recommended for English majors, Bronte fans, Shakespeare buffs, and anyone else who has read widely in the classics, but is willing to be a bit silly.
Part of it is my love of Jane Eyre but part of it is just that it's clever, witty, occasionally cheeky, touching, fast-paced, adventurous FUN.The parts of the narrative that cross over with Jane Eyre are done with a great deal of love towards that particular book.
It couldn't have been done better and I had happy tears in my eyes several times.I highly recommend this book to everybody (and did get my in person group to read it...) for just an action-packed, fun read.
I'm sure I'll read it many more times.
18.08.2015: I have an urge to re-read this series as it reflects today's world, what with the Cheese Wars and trouble in Crimea.
