https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77295.Gift_from_the_Sea
This is one of those books that really will change your life, and it's one that absolutely should.Lindberg (the wife of Charles Lindberg) explores the necessity of not only looking inward, but of focusing on one's development in order to fully live as a person, a woman, a mother, and a wife.
She is especially potent when discussing the necessity of occasional moments of solitude in order to realign one's priorities and give freedom to creative expression, rather than running oneself ragged with the million fragmented responsibilities of the American woman.
That said, it's always worth a shot to read and gain insight into something, so see how it strikes you.The people I actually recommend this to are those who are young traditionalists.
This is a book meant for people who started right, followed the steps in the right order, and never strayed from the norm, in order to awaken the creative and contemplative soul in the everyday woman.
I read it and liked it and even took notes and wrote down favorite quotes from it.
Reading it again at 34 it was a like a whole different book and this time I was laughing reading it thinking...Anne Morrow Lindbergh really GETS me.She compares the different phases of a woman's life to different sea shells.
I can't wait to read the book when I'm 50 and again at 80 and see if Anne Morrow Lindbergh still GETS me...somehow I think she will.
I've really got to stop reading a book just based on the title and cover.
I love the sea and the beach.
During the fall and winter I go sea glass hunting North of Boston.
My husband tells me I should make jewelry when I give up my current job.I've got to say this book is quite outdated.
I don't need someone to tell me that females need to seek solitude.
I love solitude and wish I had more of it.
This book sounds like something my mother would have wrote.
This was a great little memoir to read!
With only 130 pages, it doesn't take too long to read.
In fact, you can read it in chapters over a long period of time and you'll have no problems following along.Most of all, I enjoyed the ideas and inspiration in this book by being more authentic with yourself and your life.
To be more aware of your aloneness, thoughts while you are alone and being okay with those thoughts.I loved how she wrote about living in the moment and allowing yourself to go with the flow of life and responsibilities.
You can gain something from this book depending on the subject matter and what you're looking for.Great read!
I love walking around a bookstore and picking up five or six books of varying genres that catch my eye, sitting down and skimming.
This was number four in a stack of nine that I picked up today at Borders.
After skimming the introduction, I flipped to the first chapter...
It was wonderful to start the year with a book that contemplates life in a lyrical fashion, using metaphor to reach truth.Lindberg writes of simplicity to the end of clearing out the distractions and leading to focus on what is most important.
I found this audio in the bag I keep in the car.
The MP3 player in my car didn’t like the way this disc was formatted and played the tracks out of order so I can’t review this properly as it kept skipping around.
“One cannot collect all the beautiful shells on the beach.
One moon shell is more impressive than three.
There is only one moon in the sky.”There are a lot of beautiful "quotables" in this book but I didn't take notes.
This one struck a cord, and stuck with me, for obvious book related reasons ;)
I remember reading this at BYU for a class and having to do a paper on it.
I remember wondering what all the hoopla was about it...
But now, some 30+ years later, it had a whole new meaning for me as I truly understood and felt exactly what she was expressing...It is amazing that though this book was written over 50 years ago, so many of her observations still ring true today, and I found myself marking up page after page.
the ebb and the flow like the sea tide...It would be interesting for me now to re-read that paper I wrote back in college!
Anne Lindbergh spent two weeks on Captiva Island in Florida, one week alone and one week with her sister, reflecting on her life and relationships.
Find time for solitude, creativity, and an inner life.
Three of her shells represented different phases in relationships, especially marriage, as people go through life.
It made me wonder what Anne Lindbergh would think about the world today where my daughters' generation is bombarded with information and new devices constantly.
Perhaps today's woman has even more need to nurture an inner life as this book suggests.
It's the kind of stuff that sounds pretty wise, but it's hard to figure out what it really means.To give Ms. Lindbergh, who I have much respect for, the maximum amount of credit, these ideas might be cliches because this book is just that popular.
I do enjoy my alone time (which I spend reading, hello), but I'm just not desperate for it like more introverted types often are.
I'm tired of preachy introverts suggesting that this means I'm not contemplative!I'm not giving up on this book entirely - I may come back to this - but for now, "Eh."
Anne Morrow Lindbergh wrote these musings in 1955, and it is definitely a capture in a moment of time, when roles for women were still assumed to be #1- marriage, #2 - having children, and #3 - taking care of the household.
In my imaginary life, on an imaginary island, I would keep this on my bookshelf to pull out in quiet moments, and maybe use her words to inspire me to be better at journaling and pulling back.
3 starsThis is a very short non-fiction by Anne Lindbergh.
I listened to this on audio.
It was adapted to a movie in 1960.
An anniversary copy of the book has an introduction by her daughter, Reeve.
The audio is narrated by Claudette Colbert, a famous actress from the 50's and 60's.
Lindbergh spoke from the heart.
During a vacation on a Florida shore she muses about life's many wonders as she relates them to the shore and sea shells.
She speaks on love, marriage, children, solitude and contentment.
Lindbergh speaks to the escape from everyday demands.
I may be the only person on mother earth that thinks this book is over-rated. I've read it twice now and I just don't get what everyone thinks is so amazing about it. Lindbergh does bring up some interesting ideas that are worth thinking about, but she loses me with the sea shells. I agree with Becca in that, if i want to read something thought provoking with the potential to change my life, i'll read the conference talks in the ensign.
Anne Morrow Lindbergh writes of being a woman in America in the fifties.
She compares different stages of marriage to different shells.
She speaks of the need for simplification in a world cluttered with obligations and gadgets.
She speaks of what can be gained by allowing one to withdraw and find inner solace within one's self.
She quotes among others John Donne, Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Rainer Maria Rilke, W.B. Yeats and William Blake.I cannot express with her ability her philosophical views on life and marriage.
Anne was much more than merely the wife of aviator Charles Lindbergh.
This book is a collection of essays by Anne Morrow Lindbergh, published first in 1955.
She uses simile of sea and sea-shells to describe life, motherhood, marriage, coming of age.
Very soothing read..One of the passages I enjoyed reading in the book is : 'Perhaps middle age is, or should be, a period of shedding shells; the shell of ambition, the shell of material accumulations and possessions, the shell of the ego.
Perhaps one can shed at this stage in life as one sheds in beach-living; one’s pride, one’s false ambitions, one’s mask, one’s armor'.
Scrounging around for a short book this morning, I came across this on the hallway bookshelf.
At first, it seemed similar to Walden--all about simplicity, only in this case a well-to-do suburbanite woman on an unnamed beach vs.
(Open until 6 p.m.) Interestingly, it reads: "You have bought this book anticipating a satisfying reading experience.
Our only requirement for an exchange in our shops is that the book be currently salable and in new condition.
The first of 2018.Eh. Maybe something else short, like the back of a cereal box.
Something deep, like LIFE.
I'm sure I read Gift from the Sea at least 30 years ago and have probably bought and given away as many as thirty copies over the years. Gift from the Sea is one of those books that speaks to a person differently through different stages of one's life. I love it and think every woman should read it. I have since read other books (memoirs, diaries, letter of sorts) by Anne M. Lindbergh and have enjoyed them very much. I was happy to come across the 50th anniversary edition as a gift to myself.
How lucky I am to have found it.It speaks VOLUMES to women of middle age and even though I am past that, it spoke volumes to me.Here are some descriptions from Will:This is one of those books I’d heard about and seen on countless shelves, especially in, predictably enough, beach cottages.
The book contains Lindbergh’s thoughts on feminism, the environment, motherhood, marriage, work, love, independence, and, more broadly, how we manage our time and our lives.The problem as Lindbergh sees it is “how to remain whole in the midst of the distractions of life.”This book spoke to me, Celia, especially in the areas of simplifying one's life and understanding the phases of one's marriage.
It’s one woman’s meditation on the role of women through the stages of life and, in particular, how an artist with a family can claim a space of her own, a sort of practical extension of Woolf’s A Room of One's Own.I finished it a week ago and while it was a pleasant enough read and the tête-à-tête brought forth some intriguing ideas (as it always does), the book feels rather ephemeral, perhaps because much of what AML writes of, such as everyone needing alone time (a concept she says was looked on as crazy then), is part of our consciousness now.
I think I moderately enjoyed this book as a 20-something young mother.
But with an extra goodly number of years on my body, I now adore this book.I feel keenly that Anne Morrow Lindbergh is a kindred spirit.And if there are as many women as she insinuates who also feel that desperate need to "get away" in order to recharge and refuel-- so that they may come home ready to give again ...
I wish I knew where they were...In any case, it has reaffirmed to me that my desire for solitude is not selfish-- but healthy.And I am grateful to have a family who lets me do this once or twice a year.6 weeks and counting until that eagerly anticipated solitary weekend...
Received this gem of a book yesterday. Not only is it a visually beautiful book the writing is also beautiful. How did I miss this classic for so many years? A book that is great for any stage of life. Filled with wisdom I love how Mrs. Lindbergh uses a gift from the sea for each chapter. The comparison and insight of life to a shell is so beautiful! This is a book I will read more than once a year and one that I will give to my family anad friends. Absolutely love it!
The PERFECT words for my journey of rounding my 50th year.Wish I could thank Anne Morrow Lindbergh in person. I hope somehow she knows.
Not knowing all that would happen on the "other side of the ocean" or how long it would take to get settled, I had to leave it up to a flexible plan.
Thoughts to ponder.Anne says, "It is more basically: how to remain whole in the midst of the distractions of life; how to remain balanced, no matter what centrifugal forces tend to pull one off center; how to remain strong, no matter what shocks come in at the periphery and tend to crack the hub of the wheel."We never know what lies ahead but staying centered no matter what comes our way is so important.
All I could think about when Anne was discussing marriage and women's roles was about her personal life and the affairs both she and Charles had.
I thought it was strange that she kept quoting Antoine de Saint-Exupery throughout the book until I found out that she had an affair with him.
Then, her apparent admiration for him made more sense (don't get me wrong--Exupery wrote some amazing things, namely The Little Prince).
I think Anne had some thought-provoking points to her musings, but it was overly poetic and also a little depressing for me.
★★★★★I loved this book. My mom gave it to me as a gift when I was a teen and I've read it a couple of times. Still relevant today. Beautifully read by Claudette Colbert.
I can't believe I put off reading this one for so long. Short, sweet, timeless. Reminds me very much of Eleanor Roosevelt's You Learn by Living (and I LOVE that book).
In concise, philosophical and thought-provoking language, Anne Morrow Lindbergh provides the reader with wonderful revelations of what it’s like to be a modern woman.
Sometimes, we give so much of ourselves that the well runs dry.Anne Morrow Lindbergh used her valuable vacation time on a remote island to replenish herself.
In this special time, she found her center, replenishing the wellspring of who and what she was.Rarely have I read such a wonderful book!
Every woman should own a copy for her personal library and if men seek to understand the true nature of women, they should read it as well.
Definitely a lyrical book. The author uses different shapes of shells and likens them to different stages or experiences of a woman's life.
When each partner loves so completely that he has forgotten to ask himself whether or not he is loved in return; when he only knows that he loves and is moving to its music--then, and then only, are two people able to dance perfectly in tune to the same rhythm.""The present is passed over in the race for the future...The here, the now, and the individual, have always been the special concern of the saint, the artist, the poet, and--from time immemorial--the woman.
This is a book about the growth of consciousness in women and men, in relationships, marriage, and within the honor of the family.
From Anne Morrow Lindbergh’s perspective, the sea has a lot to inspire about life and the trials of our relationships.
If you are interested in feeding your soul for your marriage, partner, or children (she has a lot to say about motherhood), this is a quick and direct read with deep insights.
This little book (140 pages) can be read in one sitting and would make a lovely wedding card or anniversary gift.
