https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6516450-what-the-dog-saw-and-other-adventures
In the preface, Gladwell says this collection includes his favorite articles.
Gladwell is an engaging writer, and I think this collection works so well because the articles are just the right length.
If you like audiobooks, Gladwell is a good narrator, and these articles are fun to listen to.
One-year-olds think that if they like Goldfish Crackers, then Mommy and Daddy must like Goldfish Crackers, too: they have not grasped the idea that was is inside their head is different from what is inside everyone else's head.
My mind doesn’t quite work that way – just as I don’t paint like Picasso – but I’ll tell you what, I love it when I see it.And what has this got to do with Gladwell and his latest book?
Most of the time, his underlying thesis runs along the lines of "Wow, things are a lot more complicated or a lot more simple than they seem." He's obsessed with patterns -- finding them when they are invisible; complicating them if they are widely accepted.I've been reading all of Gladwell's books, mainly because he comes up in conversation so often.
Gladwell uses examples here and in his book-length works of inaccurate patterns imposed in fields as diverse as these: a) military intelligence b) stock market analysis c) criminal profiling d) cancer detection, e) nuclear power plants, f) animal control, and g) the staffing decisions for filling corporate positions, political seats, orchestra musician positions and football teams.
I guess he wins." — Merlin Mann- - -What The Dog Saw is a series of catchy social-science essays by Malcom Gladwell, best known for his long-form books The Tipping Point, Blink, and Outliers.
The book's essays are culled from a decade worth of his writing in The New Yorker.I'm on the fence about Malcolm Gladwell.
On one hand, his books are thought-provoking and enjoyable.
Compared to his books, these 20-30 page essays further soften Gladwell's soft-science approach by simultaneously making his points less pointed and his subject more broad.
If you're new to Gladwell, I'd start with one of his books instead.
Probably the best Malcolm Gladwell book that I've read, and I've read them all.
In my opinion, it is usually hard to construct a book that is likeable enough, out of a collection of articles or blogs.
In What The Dog Saw, for example, Malcom categorizes failure into : Panicking and Choking.
Did it have a good impact on the Society?and my most favorite topic is certainly the last one in the book.
Banning one species will certainly not gonna solve the problem, and in his book, he shall tell you why.What The Dog Saw is a great attempt in a creating a collection of quite interesting stories which tackles a lot of topics at the heart of Sociology, Economy, and Psychology.
They weren't actual fiction stories but little narratives of real events that happened - I suppose the fact that I read this portion of the book in a similar way to fiction showcases Malcolm Gladwell's storytelling talent.Part 2 was where I started to get hooked.
This part of the book made buying it worth the money.What the Dog Saw is an extraordinary collection of essays that are written with intelligence and precision.
The research Malcolm Gladwell must have put into each of these stories amazes me - now I want to reread some of his previously published works.Want to read more of my writing?
I finally-finally finished it! But not because it is boring - it is collection of articles by Gladwell, so it does not go down like one single book. All articles clearly demonstrate inquisitive mind and quick wit of Gladwell, but not all of them are of equal interest and thrill. Some articles feel like they are concocted out of thin air, some are too plain and unexcited. But I was fascinated by the stories of colorant revolution in the US, value of talent and specifics of human perceptions at job interviews.
So much info here, about the relevance of Catholicism to the method of the pill, how women's menstraul cycles have changed with modern times and technology, and the medical benefits of birth control (being on the pill lowers your risk of ovarian cancer -- crazy!)6) What the Dog Saw. This article is about Millan the Dog Whisperer, how he came to his job, how he works with dogs, and with people, and the body gestures and signals that we process subconsciously that leads to his success.7) Open Secrets.
Each of the articles first appeared in The New Yorker and was handpicked by Gladwell to show us the world through the eyes of various people and even a dog. The book is divided in 3 parts: Obsessives, Pioneers, and other varieties of Minor Genius, Theories, Predictions, and Diagnoses and Personality, Character, and Intelligence.
I really enjoyed this book, even though at times it seems he goes out of his way to pick the most disparate topics, compare them, and then make some far fetched and often counter intuitive conclusion- my partner and I joked that he is so contrary, one often just has to think of the commonly held idea around a subject, think of the total opposite, and one can safely bet Gladwell will set up camp around the latter.
But I did understand what Malcolm is trying to say (though deep down I still wonder if I did…)All in all, brilliant read and a worth while addition to your collection of books though many a times, it can be boring having stacked up with excessive information which you may not want to know about.Overall rating – 6 out of 10.
I didn't buy this book because it is a collection of already published articles, nearly all of which I have read already.
Gladwell is a storyteller and sometimes lets telling a good story take precedence over reality.
I could go on, but the fact is: I really like reading these articles.
Some of them are as fun and as fine as great short stories.
I liked reading about Nathan Taleb; I've read The Black Swan and, again, it was neat to see him through Gladwell's eyes.
But that's enough for me to remember why I liked this book so much.
Gladwell took a story — a woman who saw that a play had plagiarized her life — and reacted as most would: She sued.
Yet, Gladwell spent so much time making us sympathize with the woman whose life was plagiarized, then took a chance to completely spin the story in a new way.
What I liked that Gladwell did was examining profiling as if it was a psychic doing their work, along with pointing out all the ways it was that.The second article he wrote against profiling was to do with pitbulls.
Oral contraceptives cause blood clots now, but they also have a vastly different hormonal profile than the original Pill.
Gladwell adds footnotes to update several articles, but the blood clot issue -- as well as new findings connecting artificial hormones and cancer in female bodies -- goes unaddressed.Several of these pieces felt too short; I'd turn the page and be surprised it was over, and if you've read Blink you're already familiar with the concept, and much of the research, behind "The New-Boy Network," but if you like Gladwell, you'll like this book.Four stars.
He raises some interesting points, but I don't know if I agree with all of them.
I really liked this article, even though it was less about training dogs and more about whether Millan knows some secret body-language.
Very interesting, and he brings up some good points about pictures.
He makes some very good and interesting points.
He makes very good points.
An interesting article on people who come into their talent later in life, and about sponsorship.
An interesting article about talent.
16.) Dangerous Minds.
An interesting article about profiling.
Are they dangerous, or is it their owners?
I hadn't realized this was a collection of Gladwell's essays, many (most?
I found this out while reading the New York Times essay on the book, Malcolm Gladwell, Eclectic Detective, by none other than Steven Pinker.
(Although not quite as luxurious as Pinker's tresses...)* Review edited for accuracy after I was prompted to read it more carefully!
While reading this book I was wondering all the way - how nice it would be to open a magazine and find such intriguing, well-researched, knowledgeable post with a morning tea!
The book has it all with their very little known history."Good writing does not succeed or fail on the strength of its ability to persuade...It succeeds or fails on the strength of its ability to engage you, to make you think, to give you a glimpse into someone else's head - even if in the end you conclude that someone else's head is not a place you're really like to be."This book does it all, keeps the reader glued, gives glimpse of how humans and even dogs think, enriches database of knowledge and most importantly widens thinking horizon.
One of the factors which contributes greatly to his success is an almost uncanny ability to explain technically complicated material in an accessible manner - he makes this seem so effortless that I think people have begun to take this aspect of his work for granted.
I think it's anything but effortless, that it takes hard work every time and he is one of only a handful of writers to pull it off regularly.
You may find yourself disagreeing with something that Gladwell is telling you, but you generally won't have too much difficulty figuring it out.
Frankly, I think this is the perfect length for his writings, long enough to delve into the topic, but not so long that it feels he's making the same point over and over.
It's amazing.As always, I don't think Gladwell's point is to force you to agree with him, it's to make you challenge your conventional view of the world.
Just thinking about these issues is enough to make you start second-guessing all sorts of conventional wisdom, and I think that's what makes Gladwell's writing so valuable.
It lacked a clear central theme to derive a clear lesson unlike other books in Gladwell's collection like Tipping Point (Small things builds critical mass and changes norm), Blink (Small samples can help make valuable decisions), Outliers (10,000 hours of practice to achieve greatness).
This book was just a mish-mash of stories, some good, some so so, but mostly unrelated or at least I was too dumb to get the central theme.
Gladwell's story telling capabilities were intact so it was still somewhat entertaining but the lack of a central theme made me feel it it was running all over the place with it's head cut off.
В нея на пръв поглед няма нищо интересно, но не и за добрия журналист, който знае, че материал може да се напише за всичко, стига да откриеш собствената си и уникална гледна точка към темата.
В предговора на "Какво видя кучето" Гладуел сам обяснява защо е избрал това заглавие за сборника, събрал любимите му статии - общото в тях е, че доказват на читателя, че си струва да види света през чужди очи.
Гладуел е не просто добър журналист, той е майстор, който знае, че в дъното на всеки феномен, на всяка история стои човекът.
Dalam kisah Murray Sejuta Dollar,Gladwell mengkritisi kebijakan tunawisma yang ada di New York, juga kritikan terhadap penyusun profil kriminal FBI John Douglas lewat kisah seru dan perbedaan analisa dari kelompok psikolog Liverpool.4# riset dan kaya akan dataDengan basis jurnalismenya, sangat terlihat bahwa Gladwell menyiapkan sungguh riset dan data sebelum menyajikan tulisan, bahkan untuk hal-hal yg mungkin dianggap remeh oleh orang.
What makes the writing of Malcolm Gladwell so interesting and compelling to read is that he looks at the everyday stuff of life just a little bit differently from the rest of us.
And he writes it all in such an easy to follow fashion, despite all the facts, figures, reports, trials, examples, interviews that he uses to illustrate and prove his points.
If you look at the review in an esteemed publication such as the New York Times Gladwell does come in for some criticism over the lack of 'technical grounding' on his subjects, his tendency to be genarlise in his writing and to include the reader in his reasonings: the royal 'we'.
Another solidly enjoyable book from Malcolm Gladwell!
He's definitely in my top 5 "I can count on a good book by..." list.This is a compilation of New Yorker articles that he has written over the last 15 years.
Each article is completely different, and thoroughly enjoyable.The reason that this book received 4 stars rather than 5 was mainly due to the fact that it was compilations, and there was no overarching theme.
They got 5 stars.
This was thoroughly enjoyable, but not a game changer.
It's a good 4 star book.Definitely a book I will read with enjoyment again!
Malcolm Gladwell has become a "hot" non-fiction writer, although he has obviously been around for a while.
Gladwell's appeal is that he is a charming "geek" (just look at him!) who picks unusual subjects and makes them really interesting.
The title essay is about Cesar Millan "the Dog Whisperer".
Perhaps the most interesting story is about "late bloomers" - a writer who seemed to appear overnight but actually had been honing his skills for 20 years (like himself, perhaps) - and the painter Cezanne, who did not become a "genius" until his 50's.
Gladwell is a fine writer, and you may enjoy him.
The main thing I got from this book is that I miss magazines and being able to read an article on a subject I'd never thought about, and learn something in 15 minutes.
If I told you "choking is when you overthink a situation and panicking is when you stop thinking" that doesn't carry the same weight as reading one of these articles, yet that is how most of us get information anymore, in short slideshows, bulletin points and twitter feeds.
I read this over time--as a monthly magazine would have been read--and still remember the hair color dye and the homeless problem articles.
Not every article was to my liking but by the time I thought I wouldn't be interested, I was done.
While I don't always agree with Gladwell's opinions, I always enjoy reading them.In this work, my favorite piece was called "John Rocks Error: What the Inventor of Birth Control Didn't Know About Women's Health".
In developing countries, however, the average age at which teenagers reach sexual maturity can be as high as 18 years old!
And if you did receive it, why do you boast as though you did not?" When it comes to intelligence, everyone is afraid that it means people ARE less if they aren't as intelligent.
A collection of Gladwell’s articles from “The New Yorker” – musings on what makes people tick, why some ideas fail, and how well we can predict a person’s success in a particular field, profiles of leaders, “obsessives,” and quirky geniuses.
Gladwell’s moody, affable, warm prose is a huge help, but his real skill is in social psychology, of making even the most discussed events (such as Enron and Challenger) fresh by looking at them as a human story: not populated by villains and victims but by flawed people who fall into patterns and make mistakes and start getting lax about the future because things have worked out in the past.
Not only does Gladwell conflate intelligence with "talent" (a term that probably has different meanings to different people), he sells cognitive ability short by deriding its small (in absolute terms) relationship with job performance without giving consideration to the piles of research saying that while the correlation isn't a perfect 1.0, it's still really high relative to other predictors like emotional intelligence.On the other hand, Gladwell's excellent essay on the benefits of structured interviews should be required reading for all HR managers and anyone involved in interviews.
