https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29581.Foundation_and_Empire
Exciting surprise ending, that remembers me the first Asimov novels of the Robot series.Vote: 7,5«L'Impero Galattico stava crollando»Meno frammentario del precedente, il secondo romanzo del Ciclo delle Fondazioni risulta suddiviso in soli due blocchi temporali, rispettivamente 150 e 230 anni dopo la nascita della Fondazione.
Una nuova "Crisi di Seldon" si avvicina, apparentemente scatenata da un nuovo temibile nemico, il Mulo, un'essere dotato di poteri quasi soprannaturali.Devo dire che la tecnica di Isaac Asimov di descrivere per fasi o blocchi temporali le vicende che hanno portato alla caduta dell'Impero e alla nascita e sviluppo della Fondazione a me piace.
But it makes all the more apparent Asimov's complete inability to create memorable or sympathetic characters.
This means that each of the two halves read like over-long short stories.
It's one thing for Asimov to utilize his normal style of enigma/suspense followed by solution/resolution.
This style works well for short stories even if they get monotonous after a while.
But when stretched over 100 pages and combined with characters you don't care about, it makes for not much more than a mildly challenging brain teaser: interesting to be sure, but ultimately rather unfulfilling.All this would normally combine for two-star status, but I grant it a third in deference to Asimov's genius and the sheer scope of the enterprise he created with this series.
Up to the point of the story, Seldon had been prophetically correct in his predictions, reassuring his followers of the inevitability of his plan, and of Foundation.But there are shadows and penumbra of uncertainty and the apprehensions are proven true when great Seldon appears and starts talking about an alternate history, one that was not going on.
The Foundation was experiencing a crisis different than the one foretold by Seldon.The mule.Psychohistory deals with predicting statistical trends in human progress, a combined science of mathematics, sociology, psychology and cultural study that Seldon and his apostles have used Seldon’s principles to exact a plan for cultural galactic evolution with exacting precision.
"Asimov" positions Seldon as a quirky but still coldly logical voice of reason from the past, carefully charting the future fall and rise again of humanity through psychohistory - that discipline that combines history, sociology, and mathematical statistics to predict the future behavior of large groups of people.
Although the time of our invasion draws near, this Scientific Analyst suggests that we should consider external factors - ones that exist outside of basic human predictability - that may prove to be a challenge to our upcoming enterprise.
Esto se pone cada vez mejor !!! Habrá que continuar leyendo la saga. Altamente recomendable.

527. Foundation and Empire (Foundation, #2), Isaac Asimovامپراطوری کهشکشانها کتاب دوم- ایزاک آسیموف - شقایق؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانشماه مارس سال 1990 میلادیعنوان: جنگ امپراطوری کهکشانها کتاب دوم - از سری بنیاد؛ نوشته: آیزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: حسن اصغری؛ تهران، شقایق، 1371؛ در 396 صمجموعهٔ بنیاد نام مجموعهای هفت جلدی از آیزاک آسیموف است؛ که مشهورترین مجموعهٔ علمی-تخیلی خوانده شده است. داستان این مجموعه به ترتیب زمان انتشار پیش نمیرود، بلکه آسیموف نخست جلدهای سوم (بنیاد)، چهارم (بنیاد و امپراطوری) و پنجم (
Foundation and Empire (Foundation, #2), Isaac Asimovامپراطوری کهشکشانها کتاب دوم- ایزاک آسیموف - شقایق؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانشماه مارس سال 1990 میلادیعنوان: جنگ امپراطوری کهکشانها کتاب دوم - از سری بنیاد؛ نوشته: آیزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: حسن اصغری؛ تهران، شقایق، 1371؛ در 396 صمجموعهٔ بنیاد نام مجموعه‌ای هفت جلدی از آیزاک آسیموف است؛ که مشهورترین مجموعهٔ علمی-تخیلی خوانده شده‌ است.
داستان این مجموعه به ترتیب زمان انتشار پیش نمی‌رود، بلکه آسیموف نخست جلدهای سوم (بنیاد)، چهارم (بنیاد و امپراطوری) و پنجم (بنیاد دوم) را نوشتند و سپس با وقفه‌ ای طولانی مدت و بر اثر اصرار خوانندگان، جلدهای ششم (لبه بنیاد) و هفتم (بنیاد و زمین) را به آنها افزودند.
بنیاد دوم (سقوط امپراطوری کهکشان‌ها در ترجمهٔ فارسی)؛ 6.
Split into two stories instead of many like the first book, this one feels a lot more streamlined and the Foundation has met two of its greatest foes.
The foundation always knew that it would one day have to face against the Empire, and it did, and that story was very interesting.But the Mule?
Yes, sure, there's the Lensman and others, but what we've got here is the grand social tide set against the powers of a single individual.
One that's both chilling and affirming at the same time, playing to our prejudices that we as individuals matter, while also showing the grand destruction that comes with it.I'm revising the novel upwards.
Hard."It was strange that the Glory of the Galaxy should be a rotting corpse."I have gone over and over what to say in this review, but I realized that at the end of the day I had already said everything in my review of Foundation, the first installment in the series.
The two books are of course different (for one thing, I found this one less episodic, which neither particularly pleased or displeased me), but what I think of this series didn't change.
It has its strengths and its weaknesses, and I am ejoying it in that peculiar and unique way Asimov and only Asimov is able to make me enjoy a book.
(The exam went great by the way.
Differs considerably from its prequel while maintaining the same thrill throughout.
Foundation and Empire is sadly not as interesting as the first book in the series. It was hard to get through at times, mostly because of a total lack of suspense, depth and real characters (which is usually also the case in the first book, but that one easily gets extra points because of the brilliance of the ideas).Still, there are many plainly visible influences to be found, and it's good enough that I definitely want to read more of these books.
The saga continues, with the Foundation coming up against the unexpected. We are sharply reminded that psychohistory is a probabilistic science and can fail against the unpredictable.Edit to add:I was thinking of the mutant, Mule, who upset the carefully planned Foundation applecart.Yes, there's very little one can do against unexpected mutants! ;)9/11/2016Another one of my reviews which has proved prophetic today. I am getting so good at this so as to frighten myself.
La primera parte, sigue prácticamente las mismas pautas que el libro anterior, solo que el “enemigo” ahora es el mismo Imperio, por lo tanto el problema es, digamos, más grande.
Ademas es en esta parte donde el libro se separa casi por completo de su forma de contar las cosas y toma un giro sci-fi mas clásico y común, aunque sin perder el toque del autor.
Pero recalco, esta no es una historia centrada en los personajes y su evolución, es muy importante tener eso en cuenta.
In my view the trilogy is comparable (if not better than) LOTR which I often say is my favourite all time book.
What a quandary.2017As their "series" read, I am reading the Foundation series ( the 7 volume version) with SF Aficionados.
I have now re-read the first 2 of the original trilogy and thoroughly enjoyed.
Wonderful series of books that can be read as a trilogy, as 7 (septology?) or if one wishes to include the Asimov Robot and Empire novels its a lot more (other (Asimov estate authorised) authors have also increased the Foundation series even further).
I can’t wait to read Second Foundation to see what happens!!Foundation and Empire is set around a century after the first book.
The Foundation is the most technologically advanced group but it doesn’t seek to conquer, only to hold on to its closest territories until Seldon’s predictions come to fruition.
I'm really good at predicting endings to movies and books and this one got me.
I predicted the death of Viscerion from Game of Thrones but I never saw the ending of this book!
Foundation and Empire brought me back to the story.
روز دوم ژانویه سالروز تولد ایزاک آسیموف((Isaac Asimov )) نویسنده ی برجسته در عرصه علم عامه فهم و یکی از بهترین و برجستهترین نویسندگان داستانهای علمی - تخیلی است که در شهر پتروچی شوروی سابق به دنیا آمد.
او فرزند یودا و آنا آسیموف بود که در سال 1923 به ایالات متحده آمریکا مهاجرت کردند و آسیموف در سال 1928 تبعه آمریکا شد.آسیموف از ابتدا نبوغ خود را در آموختن نشان داد و چند کلاس را یک مرتبه بالا رفت که موفق به دریافت دیپلم در 15 سالگی شد.
با داستان علمی - تخیلی از طریق مجلاتی که در مغازه پدرش بود آش
روز دوم ژانویه سالروز تولد ایزاک آسیموف((Isaac Asimov )) نویسنده ی برجسته در عرصه علم عامه فهم و یکی از بهترین و برجسته‌ترین نویسندگان داستان‌های علمی - تخیلی است که در شهر پتروچی شوروی سابق به دنیا آمد.
با داستان علمی - تخیلی از طریق مجلاتی که در مغازه پدرش بود آشنا و خود در 19 سالگی نخستین داستانش را با نام " گشتی در حوالی سیارک وستا " نوشت که در مجله داستانهای حیرت‌آور چاپ شد.ایزاک آسیموف نویسنده‌ روسی‌الاصل دارای مدرک دکترای بیو شیمی و استاد دانشگاه کلمبیا بود.
او نویسنده‌ای بسیار موفق و پرکار بود و عمده‌ی شهرتش به خاطر کتاب‌های علمی- تخیلی و سری کتاب‌های علم به زبان ساده اوست.
But, the idea of "psychohistory" being able to predict the future of huge numbers of people even though psychology fails to predict any single person's fate is catchy, and the book is full of that kind of conceptual messing around.
This is number two in the series and nothing new to be added that I didn't say about number one previously.So, I can't think of a single person I know to whom I would confidently say "oh yeah, you're going to looove this series" but yet it is supposedly a sci-fi classic and looooved by a whole bunch of people.
Still, at least I didn't make the mistake of reading Second Foundation before Foundation and Empire; that would have sucked.Unlike Foundation (#1) Foundation and Empire is not a fix-up novel of several connected stories but it does consist of two novellas, “The General” and “The Mule ”.
The rather lame hero of the Foundation on this occasion is one Lathan Devers who does not actually outwit the Empire here but won because according to Hari Seldon’s arcane psychohistory algorithm it is statistically impossible for the Foundation to lose, almost like a preordainment.It's interesting that I remember nothing about this shorter Part 1 of Foundation and Empire from my previous read decades ago.
Here, some weren't even important to get a feeling for the era, the galaxy and development of events; we had quite a lot of what I consider "background noise".As a comment before we begin, please consider that I do not put much into spoiler brackets because the book itself often reveals things beforehand through entries of the Encyclopedia Galactica that are being cited before a chapter or simply by the title of the 3rd and last book!The first part, The General, tells the tale of a very important man in the history of the Foundation.
Katır karakteri seriye canlılık katmış. Olmasaydı ilk kitabın tekrarından başka bir şey olmayacaktı.İkinci Vakıf nerede acaba? Onlar nasıl serpildi Galaksi'ye. Bazı eleştirilerde hikayenin zaman atlamalarıyla geçişini beğenmeyenler olmuş. Ben nedense çok beğendim. Yıkılmaz sandığınız koca İmparatorluklar göz açıp kapayıncaya kadar yıkılabilir. Bir sayfada ki kahraman diğer sayfada bir mite dönüşmüş olabiliyor. Asimov böylece kişilere takılmayın benim hikayem çok daha büyük diyor.
However, the idea of putting short stories together, jumping about wildly in time, and expecting it to be a cohesive whole just didn't work out for me.At least in Foundation and Empire we're dealing with only two main story arcs, covered in two separate stories, but they feel like they don't really belong together.
I was so confused as to the time periods being discussed--it could have been twenty years later.
If you were the super-imaginative genius Asimov was (or was supposed to be), wouldn't you have figured that in thousands of years, we would have moved past the newspaper?
Es zināju par šīs grāmatas iznākšanu un ļoti gaidīju tā, ka katru dienu iegāju grāmatu bodē, lai pārbaudītu, vai nav jau tikusi līdz bodes plauktiem.
Nu mazās zinātnieku un pētnieku planētas vienīgā cerība slēpjas Hari Seldona paredzējumos.Grāmata turpina aizsākto, un Fonds cīnās par savu nākotnes redzējumu.
Seldona Galaktikas impērijas sabrukšanas modelis pēc būtības ir visnotaļ vienkāršs, tas izmaina vienu mainīgo, uzskatot, ka nekas cits nemainīsies.
Šī grāmata pēc būtības ir autora mēģinājums destabilizēt Seldona modeli.
Bet jāatceras grāmatas izdošanas gads, un brūkošās Impērijas ainām ir zināma pievilcība.
Dördüncü Seldon krizine odaklanılarak kitapta Katır tanıtılıyor.Vakıf yapısı nedeniyle her kitabı ayrı incelenecek bir seri değil ve Türkiye'de yayınlanma süreci biraz sorunlu.
Bu nedenle Vakıf üzerinde aynı şeyleri tekrarlamaktansa seriyi takip etmeyi düşünenleri uyarmayı tercih ederim.Çeviri ve düzelti konusunda İthaki yine şaşırtmadı.
Yeni baskıların çevirileri eski baskılarla aynı.
Vaktinde yedi kitabı da yedi farklı çevirmene teslim ettikleri için eski baskılar pek iç açıcı değildi.
Eski baskıdaki devrik cümleler, eğreti kelimeler aynı şekilde duruyor.İkinci olarak, Asimov kitapları uzun süredir Türkiye'de telif sorunlarıyla boğuşuyor.
Ön siparişte Katır'ın gözüktüğü harika bir kapak yayımlamışlardı ancak kapağın sorunlu olduğunu, hak sahibi onay vermediği için kapağın değiştirildiğini açıkladılar.
Asimov'un Vakıf serisinin ikinci kitabı ve birinci kitaba göre bence çok daha akıcı ve zevkli. Tabii birinci kitap aslında serinin temellerini oluşturuyor. Ancak burada ise artık bildiğimiz bir galaksi ve devam eden bir öykü var. Bir imparatorluğun çöküşü, güçlenmesine rağmen imparatorluk gibi yozlaşan bir vakıf ve hala çözüm arayan bir avuç insan. Kitapla ilgili incelemem: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
I liked this better than the first one because of the Mule, a very interesting character.
it's definitely a second book in that it bridges the first & third, so should be read in order.
I don't think anyone would be lost as the books are very self inclusive, but a lot of flavor would be missing.This has always been held up as one of the big classics in SF.
I think Poul Anderson's work at about the same time was on par & better in many respects.
(Of course, he was a grandmaster of SF, too.) Definitely worth reading, but don't expect too much.
I’ve had Foundation and Empire, and most of the other books, sitting in a pile in my old bedroom for a long time.
Strap in for a fun ride (or, if you are an Asimov diehard fan, maybe just … close this tab), because I am going to pick this thing apart.Whereas the original book was a collection of short stories that, together, formed a larger plot, Foundation and Empire collects two novellas, “The General” and “The Mule”.
The story suffers for lack of a strong protagonist, though; the two characters who come close spend most of their time bickering about whether or not the Foundation will get through this without doing much to actually effect any change themselves.
4.5 stars. Part two of the classic Foundation Trilogy. This is class science fiction at its best and is a really fun series to re-visit every now and then. Highly Recommended!!Voted to the Locus Poll of All Time Great Science Fiction Novels.
The Mule has conquered the Foundation (the First Foundation) and Seldon’s plan is in ruins… or is it?While Asimov’s early works do not always include strong female characters (or sometimes any female characters) – he was a man of his time, writing for a 1950s almost exclusively male audience – the second half of this book features Bayta, a woman who is kindhearted, strong and intelligent, and who is the heroine of the Foundation.
The story of the Mule is also one of the most unforeseen yet excellent plot twists in the series.
The amount of detail Asimov put into each crisis and the psychohistorical context of each action is stunning, and makes the book seem all the more real.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who wishes to continue the series into the later books, for it will keep you hooked and present you with plot twists that will really surprise you.
But here, instead of doing more of the same, Asimov tricks you out by making it look like he's going to continue with the same formula, and then strays about as far from it as he possibly can, introducing protagonists and an antagonist, and a struggle between them over the location of the Second Foundation.
I realize that this book was first published something like 65 years ago, but I really don't want to ruin the twist at the end for anyone that may not be familiar with the series, but it is pretty well pulled off.
