https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4070493-need
Sad day, Zara, sad day…Plus, she has a name that makes it sound like she’s already a fairy herself.
Not that I’m judging…not at all…***(***EDIT: For those of you who have not read my reviews before, you probably aren't aware of an on-going rant I seem to be caught up in and that's the idea that a lot of American/British authors like to pick "exotic" sounding names for their white characters.
Also, Zara wants to know why it’s cold in Maine.
64% Screw pixies, Zara STILL can’t get over the fact that Maine is cold.
I had seen it at Borders at least a dozen times, and I needed a book, so I decided to check it out.Okay, let start off with the basic plot.Zara, a once popular and happy girl living in Charleston, watches her father die of a heart attack on their kitchen floor.
She has to fight along side her new best friends to help save the world, and save herself from becoming the Queen Pixie.Now that that's over, let's talk about my opinion.All right.
Way to make the bad guy look like a wimp and set up a boring ending, Ms. Jones.The Characters - I thought the characters, especially the main one, were extremely annoying and unoriginal.
Plus, Zara's obsessions with phobias is a little odd and it's never really explained why or how she remembers them all.At first I was thinking that this was going to turn out to be a typical teen book with all the cliches, but there were enough surprises along the way that I could look past the shortcomings of the novel.
Plus, the way she defeats them is so hypocritical since she's constantly spouting off about Amnesty International and how people that are falsely imprisoned need the help of letter-writing teens, which was also another weird obsession that Zara had.I know there's a second book coming out but I can't stand it when an author plans for that.
Zara White is sent to live with her grandmother in Maine after her father dies and she falls into a deep depression.
With werewolves and pixies (fae) and blood-drinking, this may appeal to fans of Stephenie Meyer’s books and/or those who like Melissa Marr.
The whole thing feels sloppy and thrown together, like Carrie Jones scooped up the elements that make a “Supernatural Teen Story” and blended them up any which way (ok, if I’m honest, it reads exactly like the crack baby lovechild of Twilight and Wicked Lovely).
I’m a fantasy junkie, so of course I absolutely devoured Need, in one setting.
It sounded like something right down my alley and it ended up being much more than I anticipated!
{Slight Spoiler Alert} I mean how could you not with these context clues.....“.......
{End of Spoiler Alert}But it didn’t bother me that I had it figured out.
Driven by my own need, I just had to know!
Well, if you like elements of fantasy, suspense, romance, and mystery in your novels as I do.
I really enjoyed Jones’s writing and will definitely continue to pick up her novels!
He’s a pixie, and not one of those cute little things that flit around flowery gardens, but one who’s controlled by his horrible needs—needs that are causing boys to disappear, needs that are haunting Zara’s new home once again, needs that are causing Zara’s phobias to pile up at an unprecedented rate.
But, although the characters were pretty extraordinary, the plot was even better.
Need was an incredible book with the perfect combination of plot and characters that keep me needing to turn those pages until the very end.I initially thought it a little ambitious for the book to say it appeals to fans of Stephenie Meyer and Melissa Marr, because they are truly phenomenal writers, but now that I’ve read Need, I have to agree.
One would need a tremendous amount of willing suspension of disbelief to believe the events in this book. I mean, I GET that it's fiction, and paranormal fiction at that, but oh man, the heroine is so TSTL it's unbelievable. Things are just too easily believed in the book to be credible. Her friends tell her pixies exist, and Zara is like "No! They can't possibly...Oh ok, so maybe they do," in the span of like 2 seconds. Please.
. .?Me : If I saw some dim wit pointing at me and then leaves sprinkles on the ground I'd think it was an escaped mental patient with a penchant for glitter, not a pixy king out to woo me.FC : That pretty much sums it up right there doesn't it?But soon even the novelty of that wore off as the looks on others faces suddenly went from baffled horror to straight up disgust.
If you are an aspiring psychologist or psychiatrist thinking of specializing in phobias, well – this is the book for you.
I don’t think it is fair to compare to other books, but as I was reading this, I had this “same old, same old” thought in my head.Zara, grieving after the sudden death of her father is sent to live with her grandmother Betty in rural Maine.
Everyone warns her to stay in, she goes out jogging at night on rural roads.
Rural roads are not for night jogging.
Pixies....Here’s where I had a problem with this book.
Pixies need blood?
Öncelikle bu kitap 2009da yazılmış keşke ona yakın bir zamanda çevrilseydi çünkü günümüz kitaplarına göre yavan kaçmış.
Çünkü artık farklı şeyler bekliyoruz fakat 7 sene önce yazılan bir kitaptan farklılık beklemekte pek olmuyor.
Kitapta en sevdiğim şey Zara'nın fobiye olan ilgisiydi.
Ve kitap çok akıcıydı.
Üstelik konunun periler etrafında dönmesi bence çok hoştu.
Baş karakteri yani Zara'yı hiç sevmedim.
Güçlü bir karakter gibi yansıtılmak istense de bence bu başarılamamıştı.
Çok tahmin edilebilir bir kitaptı.
Her şey gün gibi ortadayken salak Zara hiç bir şeyi fark edemedi bile.
Serinin devamında ne olacağını tahmin edemiyorum çünkü bitmiş gibi bitti.
Yanı bir devam yok gibi.
So here's this teenage girl named Zara who memorizes phobias just for the hell of it.
You know, to be aware of so many bizarre phobias out there.
Then there's this Mary Sue (Gary Stu?) of a love interest named Nick who is macho, huge, unbelievably good looking and just glides through ice with this feet (It's really because he wears boots like a sensible human being, not heels like the silly girl.) so gracefully.
Very Edwardish.Then there's this seemingly BA grandmother named Betty White.
I felt that the idea of her being so adamant about helping the poor, saving those in need, while good in concept, it was forced and only seemed to be a method to try and make the character stand out more.
It’s lust on the superficial level where we have the main character going on and on about how hot he is, how gorgeous, and what not.
Also, Zara’s friend sort of blended together and there wasn’t much to distinguish one from the other so I constantly forgot who did what, what they looked like, and so on.
Some concepts of the book were pretty interesting though.
Zara is a very likable character and a pretty smart girl.
The secondary characters shine in Need, particularly Zara's friends.
I've seen a few other people complain about the dialog in this book , and to a degree I can agree that some of it feels totally unrealistic, but somehow the characters still feel very real so that didn't bother me too much.As far as the romance I love the excitement that comes from Zara's draw to the "bad boy".
The plot flows smoothly and quickly, while having just the right amount of suspense and twists.I thought this book was genuinely unique and recommend it to all paranormal and fantasy fans.
What a fun, quick read!I thought the incorporation of Zara's slight obsessive-compulsiveness with the phobias was interesting.
Zara is a very likable character.
Too often are we presented with bland female leads with no real intrigue, but Zara realizes she's a complete weirdo and embraces it.
3. Awkward, clueless girl finds out that nothing is as it seems and discovers she might be EXTRA-SPECIAL and not just awkward.4.
Special awkward, clueless girl ends up not-so-clueless and realizes she's an essential pawn in evil, diabolical plan.
But this book was so fun, I don't even care about any of that.
Need can easily be dissected into two moods: the first a mystery as Zara learns the disturbing depths of her town and comes to trust a few friends and finds a possible love interest.
However, this conflict presents another layer that only improves the story, as Zara deals with X and Y and Z all at once, i.e. emotional, family, and supernatural problems.The story's told in first person, present-tense mode from Zara's point of view in a concise, relatively simple style that really speeds the narrative along and allows us to sink ourselves into Zara's plight, especially her reconciliation with her father's death, which conflict is probably one of the most critical in the book.
“Need” is one of the first paranormal books I have read in my life and I can tell you that I really enjoyed reading this book!
“Need” is a paranormal book written by Carrie Jones and it is about how Zara White realizes that a mysterious stranger has followed her from her hometown Charleston to her new home in Maine.
Carrie Jones has made the book extremely intense yet charming at the same time as Zara White is a truly wonderful character in this book.
Zara White suspects there's a freaky guy semi-stalking her.
Turns out the semi-stalker is not a figment of Zara's overactive imagination.
There's something not right - not human - in this sleepy Maine town, and all signs point to Zara.CHARACTERS-I loved Zara and I just thought she was such a great character.ROMANCE-I didn't really ship Nick and Zara, it just didn't feel right.PLOT- The plot was super unique and intriguing.
I just need the next book.I just don't really like Nick, I don't know what's wrong about him.Characters-10/10Romance-8/10Plot-10/10Ending-10/10Speed-10/10
La carissima ragazza sarà la prima, sulla faccia della Terra, ad attirare l’attenzione del più ambito ragazzo della scuola che, ovviamente, non si comporta normalmente… no!
È tutto molto misterioso, vive da solo è guida una Mini rosso fuoco… (sicuri di non aver già letto una cosa simile?)Intanto, dall’arrivo della ragazza cominciano ad accadere strani fatti: due ragazzi scompaiono, vengono avvistati strani cani e la povera ragazza si convince che qualcosa di non umano la sta seguendo!
DNF on page 33DNF because the slight potential this book had nose dived into cliche territory. Not only was this a twilight-esque (granted with potential to be a better than the source material). I've read all these themes before. Wash rinse and repeat.
What I did not expect was feeling like I was back inside the world of Stephen King's It. But apparently if a book's got Maine, winter, and a town with a curse on it, it will always evoke the same prickly, back-of-the-neck feelings in me.
Maine feels like another world to Zara.
What I liked about Ms. Jones' writing is the way she created a truly scary world and villain with very little overt description.
I liked that she had such good friends and that they were actually a part of the story, not just background music.
Kitabı 46. sayfada bıraktım çünkü o noktaya kadar olan her şey şöyle ilerledi:- Üvey babasını kaybeden kız depresyonu nedeniyle babaannesiyle yaşamaya gönderilir.- Kız yeni okuluna geldiği ilk beş dakika içinde arkadaş ve düşman edinir:Düşmanı çok şaşırtıcı(!) bir şekilde, okuldaki "popüler kız" (Megan) ve ana karakter kızımıza (Zara) karşı bir kin dolu, bir kin dolu, sormayın. Nedeni ne sizce? --> Zara, Megan'ın Nick'le birlikte olmasının önünde duran bir "engel" ... Yahu kız daha birkaç dak
sayfada bıraktım çünkü o noktaya kadar olan her şey şöyle ilerledi:- Üvey babasını kaybeden kız depresyonu nedeniyle babaannesiyle yaşamaya gönderilir.- Kız yeni okuluna geldiği ilk beş dakika içinde arkadaş ve düşman edinir:Düşmanı çok şaşırtıcı(!) bir şekilde, okuldaki "popüler kız" (Megan) ve ana karakter kızımıza (Zara) karşı bir kin dolu, bir kin dolu, sormayın.
Zara, Megan'ın Nick'le birlikte olmasının önünde duran bir "engel" ...
Bence hiç kimsenin bir fikri yok bu konuda.Bana okuduğum 46 sayfa içinde orijinal gelen tek şey Zara'nın içinden fobi saymasıydı, ama bu huy kitaba devam etmem konusunda ikna edemedi beni.
Zara getting sent off to live with a relative she isn't as familiar with, new school, all new friends, cold, isolated setting in the North, this guy who seems really interested in her but also aloof and distant...
What I mean to say is, if you liked "Twilight" and are looking for another similar book, this one fits.
I really liked the relationship between Zara and her grandmother Betty.
Betty is a strong character on her own, and the way they get closer over the course of the book is cool.
I also like the friendships that Zara develps with Izzy and Devon.
her two friends invite her over to their house and say that they've researched online about the guy they saw outside and they came up with the fact that he's a pixie.
not only is everything so obvious through the whole book but then nick who is a werewolf and the #1 enemy to the pixies doesnt even know about pixies???
not to mention he comes into zara's house and she doesnt even realize he is a werewolf.
so after you suffer through all these pages there is an anticlimactic ending where they basically put railroad tracks around the pixie house that they can't even see...lmfao!!
Author Carrie Jones (GIRL, HERO and other books) has a way of creating unique characters and supplying them with strong voices that seem immediately familiar to the reader.
This immediate familiarity helps engage readers from the very beginning and hold their attention until the very end.
Aiding the familiarity of the voice in this book is its backdrop of Jones's home state.
Here, the blistering cold and the frustration at being snowed in comes through loud and clear as we suffer through the Maine winter right along with Zara.
Want to see more bookish things from me?
Check out my Youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfer...1.5 Stars Zara White has just been shipped to Maine to live with her Grandmother after she watches her stepfather die of a heart attack.
This book is literally just Twilight redone.
The writing was corny and most of the time I was just rolling my eyes at the plot line.
Some of the lines in the book are so over used...
ALSO, Nick is described as smelling "like safety"...
I'm sorry, but what does safety even smell like?!
They were your typical stereotypical YA characters you see in every book with no variety.
When Zara, a high school student, moves to a small town in Maine from Charleston to stay with her grandmother, she has to try to start her life over once her step father dies.
She resents her mother for sending her away and doesn't like school at all.
This is a page turning, heart stopping, incredible book about friends who stop at nothing to help save their town from destruction with a little bit of magic mixed in and lots of unbelievable twists and turns that want you needing more!!
A new girl in a cold town, a new-old car, the hot guy who never liked anyone but her, who can't seem to read her, the girl hates cold weather, then she get hurts and goes to the hospital...
You see where I'm going with this?I don't know, the dialog is so bad, they keep repeating everything, and I knew everything before it happened along time ago, and Zara is kind of stupid, I mean she is afraid and she knows the pixies are out there to get her but she still goes out!!
Pixies can fly, people!!
This book is perfect blend of Twilight and Wicked Lovely.
Supernatural, dark, romance new girl at school thing going on.
The main character is a bit more together (she is really into running, and human rights aka Amnesty International) then Bella from Twilight.
Set in Maine (atmospheric).
It is not the best written book in the world and a little formulaic at this point BUT your teens will love it and not that many folks know about it yet.
One good thing to note!
It is rare that I meet a character in a wheelchair integrated quite so well.
This was very cliche but something unexpected did occur somewhere like at the middle? I read it some time now so I cant remember exactly how but I know it had something to do with fairies. Leave the fairies to Sarah J bro. The was the over cliche it guy/ hero boring. But the atmosphere is what got this book rolling for me. Gave me the good ole Twilight Forks feeling. Its definitely worth a go if you like fairies, cold weather, cliche guys and the MC who has a phobia name for every single thing.
Soooo... This is a reread. When I first read it I rated it four stars. But I hadn't really read too many YA books when I read this and since I've read SOOOOO many, much better YA books. So I'm downgrading my rating to 3 stars. While I liked how it doesn't make any of the final decisions easy or trite, I just don't think the teenage girl was written like a teenage girl. Her thought processes are at the grade school level, as if she's ten years younger than she actually is. : /
