https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40992.Shadow_Claw
Every analysis I've read of this book mentions that even the narrator is unreliable.This can be an effective technique, but in combination with a world of infinite, unpredictable intrigue, Wolfe's story begins to evoke something between a soap opera and a convoluted mystery novel, relying on impossible and contradictory scenarios to mislead the audience.
His followers have said that he isn't 'concerned with being conspicuously witty', but I'd suggest he's merely incapable of being vibrant or intriguing.There were interesting ideas and moments in the book, and I did appreciate what originality Wolfe did have, but I found it strange that such a different mind would produce such hidebound prose, tired descriptions, convenient plots, and unappealing characters.
Or straight out of Great Expectations if Pip was an apprentice torturer and helped Magwitch in a fight rather than fetch him a file...Wolfe's writing is baroque and reminds me of the New Weird authors like China Mieville.
How many other books do you know that feature two men fighting with flowers with razor sharp leaves?The Claw of the Conciliator: Severian's journey to Thrax continues and his path brings him into contact with both friend and foe.
Will he ever make it to Thrax?Claw of the Conciliator continues Severian's rise from apprentice torturer to eventual Autarch.
I was tempted to give up on it at various points because it's so thoroughly dick lit -- I mean, the hero carries around a sword that he unsheathes, oils, and re-sheaths routinely throughout his travels, and he sleeps with nearly every woman he encounters, but usually in the most patronizing way imaginable (there's actually an extremely painful, cringeworthy attempt at some sort of epiphanic look into the male psyche, wherein it is brought to the reader's attention that men don't only want the hot chicks!
They want the not-so-hot chicks, too!
Parts of this were delightfully magical -- actually, most of it was, imagery-wise.
Aside from the genre of fantasy and a clear talent for creative world-building, Wolfe dwells in a very different universe, a universe not all that dissimilar from Mervyn Peake's Gormenghast trilogy.
The physical environment of Wolfe's city of Nessus could easily fit into Peake's Gormenghast Castle and vice-versa: A vast, half-ruined, place, unknown except locally to its inhabitants.
I have been unable to find any mention of Peake (who died in 1968) by Wolfe or in critical analyses of his work.
In a 2014 interview with Wolfe specifically about writers who had influenced him, he makes no mention of Peake (https://www.technologyreview.com/s/52...).
My three favorite novels in the world are Dune by Frank Herbert, The Name of the Rose by Umberto Eco, and The Book of the New Sun by Gene Wolfe.
The Book of the New Sun is less accessible than The Name of the Rose and weirder than Dune.
The narrator-main character tries to fool you into thinking that it's just an interlude included for his sense of completeness, but like many of things he says, it's just a subtle lie or perhaps self-deception.It's one of those books that I wish fervently my friends would all read, because it's such a pleasure to discuss.
Certainly not less.----- original review -----My first pass through Gene Wolfe's Shadow of the Torturer/Claw of the Conciliator was summed up with a status update I made about two-thirds of the way through:Flashes of brilliance between swaths of tedium.I did not dislike the book, and I expect to re-read it and enjoy it even more some day; but it did not strike me thus.
Wolfe is gifted and talented and this is a great and convoluted-and-complex-but-epic story and so...
Yet, a woman is also apparently free to disrobe and thrown herself naked and pleading to exchange sex for the life of a loved one.3.
In this enlightened age of the far future Urth, women are suffered to live despite they give offense to men and the law of Men. The expense and time to imprison and persecute...err...prosecute a woman in light of her actual value to society is a charity granted to her and her sex.6.
Under the care of the Order, a woman may only be raped as a form of torture by the head inquisitor or his designee.
I stopped after The Shadow of the Torturer.It was ok, and I fully grasp the idea that a reader should be doing a lot of the work when reading a book. But not this much work.
MUST read at first available opportunity, b/c Servo is an ode to one of Pierce Brown's favorite characters in literature,  Severian the Torturer .
At least, right if you define "best" as "none better" rather than "better than all." Book of the New Sun belongs in a class of its own.
His plots are as entertaining as they come, yet much of a reader's delight arises from the sharp style and tremendous wit with which he wrote.So it is with The Book of the New Sun, though Wolfe’s style could not be more different than Chandler’s.
In the Book of the New Sun, the adventure masks an allusive labyrinthe, a riddle of time and meaning, that must be traversed by careful reading.Which, if we’re being honest, is problematic these days.
Forming the first half of Gene Wolfe’s dying earth tetralogy The Book of the New Sun, Shadow and Claw collects the series’ first two books, Shadow of the Torturer and Claw of the Conciliator.
The conceit of the The Book of the New Sun is fairly unique, presenting itself as Gene Wolfe’s translation (also the case with Wolfe’s Latro in the Mist) of a memoir from the far future, forming a sort of bildungsroman of a torturer’s apprentice named Severian (which sounds so much like Severin from Leopold von Sacher-Masoch’s Venus in Furs that I can’t help but wonder if the latter inspired Wolfe’s naming of the former), following his journey from youth to manhood (and beyond) over the course of a single summer.
I just finished reading Shadow & Claw, the first half of The Book of the New Sun by Gene Wolfe.
I’m not done with the series yet, so I’m not sure how it’s going to end, but so far, I’ve found the story dark and mysterious and enthralling.
In some ways Shadow & Claw reminded me of Jack Vance’s work but more cohesive, so if you enjoy that sort of thing, I think you’ll like this as well.
Overall, I’d say the story and the world reminds me of a dream—a dream of gods and shadows and hidden meanings.
In fact my attempt to review The Shadow of the Torturer after I finished it was a miserable failure because 25% of a book is too little to write about.
The first thing I noticed about Wolfe’s writing is the prose, it is florid, literate and complex, I often had to read sentences or whole passages twice to decipher their meaning.
I have never seen a flower growing in shadow but the sentence conjured up a feeling of hopelessness very clearly for me.Many reviews of this book mention that it demands multiple reading for full comprehension.
The Shadow of the Torturer may very well be my favorite fantasy book of all-time if you pinned me down and forced me to give you an answer.
In many ways, The Shadow of the Torturer has everything that I look for in a great read: awesome world-building, post-apocalyptic setting, mysterious and complicated characters, an engaging and interesting plot, and just a really cool protagonist.
But if you feel like reading one of the more impressive monuments of dark fantasy ever imagined, then give Shadow of the Torturer your time.
So far (end of book 2), he hasn’t found a woman that he isn’t interested in nor has he found one who rivets his attention.In some ways he reminds me of the Knight, Sir Percival.
Like Percival, his ignorance of the ways of the world outside the Citadel often place him in perilous situations, which he comes through due to his basic honesty and ability to make friends who have the needed skills.Urth is an interesting world too—a very old Earth, apparently formerly space-faring and technological, very much reduced to the rather Medieval state that Severian inhabits.
Brilliant but also crazy difficult to unpack, and truly tedious for me for long stretches. *sigh* Maybe I'll give it another shot one of these times, now that I'm (definitely) older and (hopefully) wiser.
Gene Wolfe, the poetically accented writer of intricate fantasy/science-fiction hybrids like this exquisite tetralogy, was inspired by that other pen-wielding magician Jack Vance's  Tales of the Dying Earth : Wolfe's series also takes place on a radically altered Earth in the far, far future when the Sun's fuel is running dangerously low. Amidst the wreckage of past civilizations lies the sprawling, endless city of Wolfe's protagonist torturer-apprentice Severian. Beginning as a gauzy, haunting
The aura of lush decay that permeates the first book provides an ambiance Wolfe can never quite attain to, let alone transcend, in the following three pieces; but the route each of the three provides for the journey towards self-realization for the Torturer Apprentice are, nonetheless, worthy companions to the opening act.This is neither a Tolkien clone nor a genre-checklist fantasy-lite: Wolfe is a gifted writer who excels at painting sombre moods and shifting scenery, at casting mysterious strangers to beset the torturer and scattering hints that Severian's story is not all what it seems; and he expects the reader to make the effort to puzzle through his mysteries and render his veils.
I must say that when I picked up the book I was not expecting this.
Assasin's guild sounds interesting, but it was the worst book I have ever read.
Now, I don't know why I wasted my time.What was with the greenhouse that took up most of the book?
And the flower to fight people with, what is that?A friend of mine also read the book and we can't stop laughing about it!
So if you want to read a book that's so stupid it's funny, this would be a good one.
If Peake's Titus Alone(after being rewritten by Lovecraft and Borges) was narrated by the crazy guy from Nabokov's Pale Fire it would only hint at the joys of this book...
Gene Wolfe's four-volume Book of the New Sun must rank among the finest works of literature of the past quarter-century.
As he confesses early on, Severian's narration is essentially the story of how he has "backed into the throne." He begins by telling the reader of his exile for showing a condemned woman mercy and his going forth into a world both alien and wispily recognizable.THE CLAW OF THE CONCILIATOR continues Severian's wanderings, and his unwitting involement in the mysterious politics of his day.
I believe that, perhaps, the language is more deceptive than it may appear - because precious little actually takes place within the work in terms of plot narrative.
The language is beautiful enough to distract from the fact that very little actually happens within the novel - very little of any kind of moral or significant depth, that is.
But then again, as I said recently, not being able to find such things could also mean that I am not reading the book deeply.
Or else, that I felt it was a novel in which I did not need to look overly deeply - being distracted by the language and world as I was.
His world is very interesting, one of the best post-apocalyptic worlds you'll find, particularly as it's not merely a few days "after," but a few billion years "after." The first book is almost all about setup and introduction (and some extremely convenient happenings, which would have been more forgivable if we'd seen more payoff to those setups in either of these two books); the second starts poking the dominos, yet despite the allusions to grand designs behind the Claw and certain characters, we don't see many of the dominos fall either.
This is the book that I saved the five stars for.
Because I have never read anything that compares to this (except the sequels), and probably never will.Wolfe is in a class of his own.
So many times was I left with total amazement at the vistas Wolfe reveals, or the events he portrays.
Reading this is full of the purest sense of wonder, the joy of discovering such a place to explore.
I think that scifi/fantasy at its best is the only worthwhile literary genre, and these books are its highest achievement.
Mani šādi teksti nedaudz aizķēra, bet nolēmu, ka varu vēl laboties un izkļūt no sava nezināšanas purva un, kas zina pienāks brīdis, kad arī es varēšu teikt: “Bet Jaunās Saules grāmatā autors šo aspektu jau ir apskatījis tik pamatīgi, ka diez vai šajā darbā, kas vairāk par plaģiātu ir ronams.” Skaidra lieta, ka neviens nesaprasto, ko es ar to būtu gribējis pateikt, bet tas jau ir pārmērīgu zināšanu lāsts.“The child, as I said, in time discovers The Book of Gold.
(Nedod dievs, ka visa tā runāšana, ka šajā grāmatā neviena stāstījuma nianse nav lieka, ka visam ir sava dziļāka jēga, ka iegrimt vienkārša simbolismā ir autora viltus taka, lai pasmietos par lasītāju un gudrākam likt smieties kopā ar viņu, izrādītos tukša muldēšana.)“… don’t you know better than to ask that question of a librarian?
Aramini’s analysis sheds much light on the key underlying themes of the story, namely the death and resurrection of the Urth via the coming of the New Sun, the ambiguous messianic nature of the protagonist Severian, the healing power of the Claw of the Conciliator, and Severian’s duty to undergo testing by alien powers to determine if humanity is indeed worthy of this rebirth.There are so many themes and ideas in Wolfe’s epic that it has spawned an informal school of analysis, including books such as Michael Andre-Druissi’s Lexicon Urthus, Robert Borki’s Solar Labyrinth: Exploring Gene Wolfe’s “Book of the New Sun” and Peter Wright’s Attending Daedalus: Gene Wolfe, Artifice and the Reader.
I do really like the fantastical far flung future Wolfe has created (reminded me a bit of the weirdness of Nightland).
I DNFed this book about a decade ago but I am glad I cam back to it.
I feel like I am a more mature reader now and can better appreciate the literary aspects of this book.
Overall enjoyable but this installment is somewhat lacking since it is only the first half of a larger "Book" and I don't think it can be judged until the whole story is laid out.
I enjoyed both novels (The Book of the New Sun #1-2) for what they are but I didn't love them.
The "let's develop a philosophical psyche monologue of a torturer's life and then learn from it internally while walking" isn't my cup of soda.
Don't get me wrong, I love to see character growth, but growth with some action, please!
Maybe a part of me has been ruined by society's fast paced--dramas/adventures.As a character I thought Severian was interesting.
He is trained to be a torturer but eventually commits the heinous act of mercy.
I'd love to re-read it someday, though, and if any series deserves a re-read, it's this one.For the sake of clarity (if such a thing is truly achievable with a work like this one) I'm going to separate my review of this book into its two component novels.The Shadow Of The Torturer: Having read an article written by Neil Gaiman about Gene Wolfe, I went into this book knowing that Wolfe often employs unreliable narrators in his fiction and that readers must be wary in order to more fully catch Wolfe's gist, and yet I was still caught off-guard.
All the women are beautiful, though of course in different ways, and Severian spends a lot of time ruminating over how their beauty differs and what different feelings each woman engenders in him.
I loved all the old words, looking them up was fun, and they went along way to creating the haunting, alien, dissonant atmosphere that made the book so intense.
The perfect beach book is one that is dense, absorbing, intense, and fully transports you to a completely alien world where you have to puzzle out everything that's going on around you.
Do I want to say that Severian, the protagonist, is an immensly complex character whose perspective adds layers upon layers to the book?
As you read and if you are paying attenting something that may have seemed nonsensical can create a picture that will blow your mind, because the book is finely interwowen and even the most trivial things connect to larger elements of the story.But Wolfe isn't just a master in creating a mistery, he is a master in writing characters.
