https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82748.Sushi_for_Beginners
4.5 starsJust what I needed right now...this is a pure comfort read. I needed a comforting, funny, dramatic, traditional, feel-good read...and that's what I got!Perfect for this time of year when you're really stressed out and just want to read something totally absorbing and fun...with a little bit of seriousness to keep it real.Marian is the best and I have probably read nearly all her books now but I need another one to take me into Christmas...a Christmas one would be fab!!!
It's another one that I managed to read on planes and in airports but wouldn't make time for reading it when I wouldn't otherwise be bored to tears.I agree with other reviews here that the characters are not developed.
In many cases, as with Jack, Lisa, and even Ashling, the characters change, even sometimes drastically, but we never really get to understand why.
The relationships amongst the characters aren't well developed either.It's not difficult to read such superficial stories, but it's also not as enjoyable to not better get to know the participants in the novel.
Let's see. Take Bridget Jones, mix with The Devil Wears Prada, add some Irish details and remove about 50% of the interesting plot details and you have this book. I previously had read another book of Keyes' that I enjoyed a lot but I found this one a bit of a slog to get through. I admire her portrayal of an unappealing main character (Lisa) but it didn't really work for me as light reading. Overall, I'd say it is a professionally-rendered execution of an idea that just didn't appeal to me personally.
I will be leaving Sushi for Beginners by Marian Keyes without a formal rating simply because I can't explain why I didn't care for it, which leads me to believe it was a timing or mood issue on my part.
I listened to the audiobook intermittently while spending a very LONG day-nearly ten hours-in jury duty...that right there explains it!
If I had to rate this title today, I would give it 1 or 2 stars but that rating just wouldn't be fair.
However, the only honest feedback I can give is that the audiobook quality is pretty poor.
I think one of the stars is for my accent enjoyment due to listening to the audio.Just wasn't my cuppa, and the fact that it stretched so long in the audio version didn't help matters much.Also I wake up at 1am to go into work now so, being entertained is much more of a requirement at the moment. lol.
This is a clunky opening paragraph, isn't it?The book follows the lives of three or four (or more) young women living in Dublin, centred around a women's magazine.
Despite all this, I just found it all a bit long and relentless with the repetition of little jokey comments that could be reduced to "..ooh, aren't men rubbish!.." followed by "..ooh, but aren't we daft girls for loving them despite this!.." for 550 pages.
Perhaps because most of the characters are in the end a bit unpleasant, the story could've done with losing a few of them.
I finally finished this book.
I had started Sushi for Beginners only a few days before it was due back to the library and never really got time to read much...
now having finished it, I can say it was an interesting read.
It was different having three "main" characters, and surprisingly not overly confusing either.
The reader got to see different points of view from Lisa, Ashling, and Clodagh (all of whom are girls despite how the names may look).
Of the three, Ashling got the most story time, however Lisa was probably my favorite character of them for some reason.
It's not going to win any literary awards, but this is a great book for when you just want a fun read! And, it's not too far off when describing working for a small fashion magazine. Def one to recommend!
Una lectura fresca y ágil, con ciertos enredos pero que no aporta gran cosa.Keyes te hace pasar un buen rato cómo sólo ella sabe hacerlo.Perfecta para estos días.
Marian Keyes shoots and scores again with another fantastic novel which centers around three modern singletons.
Magazine editor Lisa Edwards meets with her bosses about a new job they have lined up for her to launch a new magazine called Colleen.
Lisa is already visualizing a new posh lifestyle for herself in New York.
However, New York isn't quite where her new job has been set up.
Ashling Kennedy is the assistant editor for Colleen.
With Sushi for Beginners, Marian Keyes does a great job in capturing perfect settings and following these women on their search for happiness.
For Ashling Kennedy, the new job she lands at start-up Irish fashion magazine Colleen is a dream come true.
For Lisa Edwards, a high-maintenance London editor expecting a promotion to New York, her appointment as editor-in-chief of Colleen is a slap in the face, the only consolation being her rumpled-but-handsome new boss, Jack Devine.
Furious at being passed up for a job at Manhattan magazine, Lisa vows to make Colleen the envy of the fashion industry, even if it kills her.
Meanwhile, Ashling is betrayed by her boyfriend and her best friend Clodagh, whose bourgeois domesticity she's long envied.
I could not care for any of her characters - workaholic Lisa was plain annoying, Ashling was just boring (though she was by far the best of the bunch), and I constantly wanted to yell at Clodagh to "Shut uuuup!".
I also thought the book was too long for a story that barely developed, and in the end, some things (like Ashling's relationship) happened too fast.
Some parts were funny (but I wasn't laughing out loud like in "Watermelon") but mostly I just finished it for finishing's sake, and retained nothing of it (except that I hate Clodagh).
Just re-read this and, sigh, I love Marian Keyes. She's such a great storyteller, often surprising me with twists I didn't see coming. Her books in general are snarky, witty, and sexy, and this one hits all of those notes and more. I'm glad I took the time to re-read it.
Marian Keyes knows how to write a good chick lit novel, her characters are so real, the settings are so familiar and her style is easy going.
This book was entertaining enough, but I would stop short of calling it good.
The characters weren't really developed, Keyes just basically told us what the characters were doing and never let them grow past their one dimensioned personalities.
And she doesn't even develop so much as suddenly she's just different.
By the time the last chapter rolled around, I didn't even care enough to read the entire thing, I just skimmed to find out how each characters story ends.
In short, if you're looking for an easy read and can get past the lack of character development, it's a decent read.
Think about an ambitious woman who expects a promotion to became an important magazine editor in New York and ends up in a little pennyless women's magazine editorial board in Ireland instead. She could either resign indignant or make "Colleen" the most prestigious magazine in the fashion industry.To do so Lisa Edwards will drive her Dublin staff, mainly made up of women, to exhaustion (nothing like the icy Miranda Priestly in the "Devil Wear Prada" though)but all the efforts will be prized as "Colleen" becomes a smashing success.
No eres tú, soy yo.Dejó de hacerme gracia y dejó de interesarme la historia... la verdad es que me encantaría disfrutar de estas novelas, pero no logro que me interesen. Aunque, ¿por qué quiero que me interesen? Para tener más donde elegir, porque como no tengo suficientes libros por leer, ni en mi wishlist... No, es para experimentar otras historias, sí. Pero mira, el chick-lit sin vampiros ni hombres lobo no consigue atraparme.No le diré que no en otra oportuna ocasión.
I dunno why I wasted my precious nights on this.
By comparison, I also found it less rewarding when I finished reading, but that's only when putting the two books side by side.Individually speaking, Sushi for Beginners is quite an enjoyable read.
She pulls through a little too neatly, and while at it, we're not privy to exactly HOW the relationship with the man of her life progresses before they're officially declared an item.
She's infuriating, she's a bitch, and she's the most complex character of the book, in my opinion.
Immature and self-centered, she's the one character I would have just LOVED to throttle a little.
One nice thing about Marian Keyes' books is that all of her characters feel like real people that you might meet on the street.
During this time of extreme stress, she is also in the midst of a divorce with her fashion-photographer husband, whom she still loves.
She is nick-named "little miss fix-it" due to her life-long habit of trying to "mother" people and fix their lives.
The third woman is Clodagh, long-time best friend of Ashling, who is currently an ineffective mother of two young children.

I got through this book. Getting into it was a bit of a struggle..... some of it I enjoyed, some was just "okay", and parts of it felt predictable, & some forced (specifically the end where it seemed semi-hurried to draw it all to a close).It's certainly not a deep book, in my opinion, and I could go for a book like that every now and then, so it wasn't a loss. Definitely very much a chick book (not necessarily a bad thing, just not typically my thing).
I loved the book. It's such a nice story; so contemporary and real that could happen to any woman these days. Her lively writing style and her awesome humor is outstanding. Reading a book of Marian is like talking to your best friend at home. I always think she and I could get along excellent with each other.
I loved this book - it is funny but sweet in some ways. I have read most of Keyes' books and this is one of her best ones I think. Not great literature but catches your interest and love the Ireland settings.Nov 1- I just re read - I love this book and listening to it is good also.
J'aime beaucoup les romans de Marian Keyes, celui-ci ne fait pas exception à la règle. C'est drôle, ça se lit vite, on s'attache aux personnages qui sont toujours réussis et qui ne tombent pas dans le cliché. Ce n'est pas le mieux qu'elle ait écrit, mais ça se lit bien, malgré quelques longueurs.
Love Marian Keyes books. I have read and collected all of her books. They are well written, easy to read and witty. Laugh out loud moments in all of her books.
Similarly, the book plays really fast and loose with the limited third-person narrator, switching characters many times in each chapter and using the device to just tell us what a character is thinking when we don't always need to know, or when those thoughts could be communicated via action instead of explanation.The plot-related issue I had is a bit of a spoiler so proceed at your own risk: (view spoiler)[ I was SO taken aback by Clodagh having an affair with Ashling's boyfriend, because I felt like what was being set up was Clodagh having a quarterlife crisis and then realizing that what she really wants to do is start her own decorating business.
In places this book moved very slowly.
I really didn't like Lisa and I had no sympathy for Clodagh.
Lisa was really horrible to her work colleagues and I couldn't feel any sympathy as she came across as being really spoilt and entitiled.
It was an enjoyable read and I am glad I can finally take it off my TBR as it had been on it for over 2 years.
I think this shows my feelings for this book, I wanted to read it because I knew it would be an enjoyable quick read but it wasn't something that I was excited for.
I'm not much of a chick lit fan, so I'm probably not the best judge of this novel.
It's the story about three women floundering around in Dublin and dealing with careers (or motherhood, in the case of one) and relationships: Lisa, a bitchy fashionista who is horrified to be relocated to such an uncool location to start a new magazine; Ashling, her mousy assistant editor; and Clodagh, Ashling's friend who is feeling stifled by her marriage.
The plot was rather predictable but there were some really funny passages to make up for it.Read for Unapologetic Romance Readers 2017 challenge--chick lit category.
In late and post-pregnancy I’m thoroughly enjoying all this fluff I’m reading!
