https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59551.Up_at_the_Villa
Somerset MaughamUp at the Villa is a 1941 novella by William Somerset Maugham about a young widow caught among three men: her suitor, her one-night stand, and her confidant.
30-year-old Mary Panton, whose extraordinary beauty has always been one of her greatest assets, has been a widow for one year.
Her late husband Matthew, whom she married at 21 because she loved him, turned out to be an alcoholic, a gambler, a womaniser, and a wife-beater.
Mary endures all the hardship and pain inflicted on her by her husband.
A few hours later, he dies in Mary's arms.
But I've sometimes thought that if I ever ran across someone who was poor, alone and unhappy, who'd never had any pleasure in life, who'd never known any of the good things money can buy – and if I could give him a unique experience, an hour of absolute happiness, something that he'd never dreamt of and that would never be repeated, then I'd give him gladly everything I had to give.’If you're objecting that this sounds unworkable, or patronising, or that sex should be a mutual experience rather than something ‘given’ by a woman to a man, then this slim novella may well be for you, because it explores the possible consequences of this attitude in detail – not without a considerable touch of melodrama, but nonetheless in a way that raises some interesting issues.The setting is the hills around Florence, sparsely but nicely described, and the period is apparently just before the Second World War, or possibly sometime near the beginning of it.
From the terrace in front of it you had a magnificent view of Florence; behind was an old garden, with few flowers, but with fine trees, hedges of cut box, grass walks and an artificial grotto in which water cascaded with a cool, silvery sound from a cornucopia.
It was June now and Mary spent most of the day, when she was at home, on the terrace from which she could see the domes and towers of Florence, or in the garden behind.
He wrote “Up at the Villa” in 1953.Somerset Maugham at Villa Mauresque.
The protagonist of "Up at the Villa" is a wealthy young English woman, Mary Leonard, whose life turns upside down when she makes a stupid decision on impulse.
Mary shows reluctance and postpones her reply for a few days.
“Rowley was not a good-looking man.
He was in short a young man with a shocking reputation which he deserved.”Somerset Maugham's villa, 'Mauresque', in St Jean Cap Ferrat, French Riviera.
Many of Maugham’s guests at the Villa Mauresque were writers, such as H.
Kristin Scott Thomas and Anne Bancroft in "Up at the Villa".
Here follows a link to the story free online:http://filippov-mi.narod.ru/W.Somerse...It doesn't take long to read the story, the time you spend thinking about it afterwards will be much longer. What is the best match for a marriage? Is life for taking risks or isn't it?The setting is Florence after 1938. With just a minimum of lines, Florence and four characters, four very different characters become real.
This was a fun, slightly silly, and quick read. I really didn’t care for the protagonist, but I liked the story overall. More than anything I loved the atmospheric descriptions of the setting, a villa just outside Florence, Italy, especially the descriptions of the villa at night.
Maugham's Up At The Villa is that rarity among the author's work-- a lightweight, resolutely upbeat summer's day kind of read.
Even in his earlier, more adventure-y south-seas days, Mr Maugham was always one to belabor the 'why we must' aspects of his characters' situations, generally falling into chasms of 'we can do no other' after lots of, well, posturing and dithering.
Andiamo!As for that Lottery ticket, going by the dates printed on the back, it is still valid, unexpired, and if things work out I'll be posting my next Goodreads review from the shores of the blue Mediterranean.
La conferma di essere uno scrittore tra quelli che prediligo.Questo breve romanzo mi stava deludendo fino alle pagine finali, già pensavo che stavolta Maugham avesse “toppato” con me, quando invece, all’improvviso, arrivata alla fine, mi sono ricreduta.C’è un topos letterario tanto caro agli anglosassoni, l’ambientazione in una aristocratica villa con uno stupendo giardino che guarda sulla cupola del Duomo di Firenze, abitata da una giovane bellissima donna inglese, Mary, anch’essa aristocratica quanto basta per prendere parte a convivi con nobili e ricchissime signore inglesi, con sottofondo di violini, di cantanti e camerieri italiani (un mondo che lo scrittore conosceva molto bene); c’è una trama che non brilla per originalità, trattandosi, in poche parole, di una donna contesa da due uomini assolutamente diversi tra loro, che la chiedono in moglie quasi contemporaneamente, finchè alla fine si arriverà alla decisione di lei.
Where other Maugham classics like Of Human Bondage develop slowly, refusing to be rushed, this book moves at a ripping pace.Most of Maugham's formidable strengths are here, fully realized: an ear for authentic, snappy, gently funny dialogue; vivid powers of description; and above all, wonderfully believable characters.
In addition, much like The Razor's Edge, Up At the Villa manages to poke a sardonic, yet affectionate finger at upper-class society.
It's an easy, worthy introduction to Maugham, or an excellent addition for someone who's already read one or all of his big three (Of Human Bondage, The Razor's Edge, and The Moon and Sixpence.)* Huge typeface, huge margins, huge line spacing.
The story opens with the widowed, but still desired and beautiful Mary Leonard pondering a marriage proposal from an old family friend and waiting for his return.
(Hi, Ben!) A word of warning to the ladies though, as Maugham points out, sometimes these things can go horribly, horribly wrong.Maugham's style was evident throughout the story, and even though I didn't become extremely attached to the characters, (mostly due to the length of the book) I thought they were well-written and showed great insight into human behavior.
Maugham touches on themes of love, marriage, war, society, relationships, and scandal all while keeping the dialogue light and sharp-witted, and the story fast-paced.
An engaging and thinly disguised morality tale about class, sexual desire and marriage — all set in the hills of beautiful 1930s Florence.To read my full review, please visit my blog.
As an interested and a rather amateur scholar of gender studies, I have been constantly reading and writing about the sexual objectification of women in popular culture and media but this novella reminded me of one key point I had been missing all along: how women objectify themselves!Yes, it is true that it's not always men or the male dominated society that views a woman as a thing of beauty.
I am somewhat ashamed to say that this is my first foray into the works of W. Somerset Maugham. I sat down and read this in one sitting, and immediately realized that this was an excellent little character study involving three men and one young widow. Maugham is a writer that knows how to put the reader well inside the head and emotions of his characters (all of which are flawed to various degrees). I quite enjoyed this long novella. I look forward to exploring more of his writing.
Very nice to read.Intriguing little story!
W.Somerset Maugham was one of the most commercially successful authors of his era and at one time was described as the most famous writer in the world. There's something about Maugham's writing that appeals very strongly to me - I don't know if it's the elegance of his writing; the gorgeously drawn characters; or the romanticism of his stories. I adored 'Up at the Villa'. What a wonderfully clever writer Maugham was and how lucky we are to read his works.
Sorprendente questo piccolo, intenso, elegante e cinico racconto di Somerset Maugham che si legge tutto d'un fiato. Personaggi ben caratterizzati, ottima costruzione della trama, dialoghi stimolanti e grande tensione. Tutto in poco più di 100 pagine che testimoniano la bravura di un autore che ad ogni libro apprezzo sempre di più...
From Imdb:Over a handful of days in 1938, a penniless English widow, on vacation near Florence, considers the marriage proposal of an aging British aristocrat who is the newly-appointed governor of Bengal, accepts a pistol that he presses on her for safety, takes pity on an Austrian refugee, stands up to a Fascist police chief, and gets in harm's way with an American playboy.
After a good deed results in tragedy, she must choose between dependability and love, between her reputation and her feelings.
Somerset MaughamI read this novella years ago and still remember it as a good story.
Maugham is one of my favorite authors.A few days ago I streamed the film adaptation:"Up at the Villa" (2000) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0153464/?...http://www.netflix.com/WiMovie/Up_at_...CAST: Kristin Scott Thomas, Sean Penn, Anne Bancroft, James FoxThis is a wonderful suspense story.
Beautiful Kristin Scott Thomas draws you in and you can't stop watching.
Just start watching and let the story unfold.
It starts out in a benign manner and then slowly draws you in.Wiki says: "In the film, subplots were added to expand the material to feature film length, which reviewers and cinemagoers criticised." I saw no problem with any subplots.
Each one is like jumping into a different genre."Up at the Villa" is really more of a novelette, a very short, quick read.
One is no surprise, and comes from Edgar, an old family friend of her father's, a dignified statesman much older than Mary, but who has known her and loved her since she was a young woman.
Left to deal with a body, she turns to Rawley for help, and when the story comes out, she can't quite ever be acceptable to Edgar again.With its setting in 1941, the minimal focus on the war and the trite, flippant ending (though it is cute and 100% Maugham) seems insensitive to the realities of the times.

Maugham proves yet again why he's the king of drama! Love it!
W. Somerset Maugham's, "Up at The Villa" is a wonderful, entertaining, thought provoking novel. Mary Panton, a wealthy, beautiful English widow, lives in her friend's villa overlooking Florence, Italy. In a strange twist of fate, the very thing she jokes about a few hours earlier suddenly becomes a nightmarish reality. The novel is amazingly suspenseful, lucid, and beautifully written. I highly enjoyed this novel.
Up at the Village is a short book, a novella, and tells the story of a widow who has travelled to Italy to recover from her marriage to a drunken womaniser.
At the dinner party is a young man who seems to have a reputation for charming the ladies.
Entertaining them is a young Austrian who is a refugee in Italy (the book was published 1941).
Given this story was published in 1941 and reference was made to the Reich, I feel a need to understand a little better how the widow was able to reside in Italy as freely and she did.
Since then I've read various of his books.This is more of a novella, or a very long short story.
As the books of his I've read so often seem to do, Up at the Villa involves members of the smart set of his time, the kind who live in villas in Italy on small bequests or inheritances; that's fine by me - write what you know, they say, and it seems Maugham did...
What happened in the story caught me somewhat by surprise, and the narrative twist intrigued me and kept me reading.
Gostei muito de ler este pequeno livro. Li-o em 2 horas
Additionally the BBC adapted a number of his short stories that stayed in my mind; was it Maugham who wrote about a man who was cursed in India for violating a bond of love that is then manifested in death by hiccups during the long boat journey home?Back to the novella which I note was filmed in 2000 with a sparkling array of stars: Sean Penn, Kristin Scott Thomas, James Fox, Anne Bancroft..., and it does rather play out in the mind as film, stock characters where men are bounders (possibly one of the few clichés Maugham avoids) or stalwarts of our imperial civil service, or independently wealthy Americans, expats then, Maugham’s own social set and all the men playing out some character trait of Maugham himself excluding any gay adumbrations, no, not even in the subtext.There’s a nasty little trail in the final chapter ruminating on a blow that Rowley had given Mary to shut her up, she reflects: ‘It was the sexual jealousy of the male, baulked in his desire, that had caused Rowley to give her that vicious blow; it was odd what a strange, proud feeling feeling it gave her suddenly to know that.
She is happy to be quiet and content, reading and sitting on her balcony alone with her thoughts.
She is invited to an evening's dinner and entertainment by an aquaintance Princess San Ferdinando, and at this event she becomes aware of a man dressed in tatters attempting to play the violin to the party.Later in in the evening she meets this man again, which sets into motion a series of heartbreaking and tragic events.This was my first Somerset Maugham story, and it has encapsulated my heart.

Maugham non delude mai, un libro breve ed intenso. La villa dal cui terrazzo si gode la vista di Firenze, nel cui giardino si passeggia romanticamente, è il teatro di una tragedia. Ma il fulcro del libro sono i sentimenti di due uomini che si contendono una donna e i cui sentimenti non sono quelli che appaiono all'inizio, anzi!
Such a lovely, smooth and intelligent writer.
