https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129223.The_Well_of_Loneliness
anyone could pick up this book and see clearly everything she's very clearly alluding to, so there isn't much mystery, but instead, a whole lot of straightforward honesty about an aspect of the world most overlook without even realizing.what broke back mountain failed miserably in doing, ratcliffe did with ease.
it isn't a sob story about rights denied gays either.it's just the tragic story of someone who is.
not that she is like the extreme mother in this book- just because it would be a way for her to see aspects of my heart that she would never be able to imagine a way to understand otherwise.
what could have been a fascinating chronicle of a tough butch interloper challenging mainstream society becomes the drippy tale of a woman who just wants to be loved, and the cruel little bitch who leads her on.
i was reminded of e.m. forster's equally drippy, equally beautiful (but rather more enjoyable) Maurice.
Well of Loneliness' passionate defender insisted that the character of the so-called cruel little bitch needs to be understood in the context of the time period.
the CLB had few options others than being, well, a CLB.
And yet, for all I criticise, there is an also an honesty to the story and Radclyffe Hall's forthright writing style that impresses me and this is worth the hard work of reading it:The Well of Loneliness was published at the same time as Woolf's Orlando - touching on similar themes of identity - but where Orlando shrouded the issue in mysticism, Radclyffe Hall dared to write openly about sexual identity.
The Well of Loneliness was not only book with a lesbian theme to be published in Britain in 1928, but it was the only one banned - because of its forthrightness and its explicitness - though hardly what would pass as such in today's terms.
A surprisingly good book that is not widely read.
The Well of Loneliness has been known as the Lesbian Bible and was written in 1928.
It was quite an edgy book for its time.
The book itself is more about gender than orientation.
The female lead, Stephen, leads a tom-boyish childhood.
She hunts, fences, rides her horse but not side saddle fashion.
She is built like Vita Sackville-West and will become a writer.
Like Sackville-West and her fictionalized Orlando she cannot return to her family house.
There is also a trip to Spain like Woolf and Sackville-West.
A well written early twentieth century book.
this book was banned in England on publication in 1928, which of course made it a huge bestseller.
but the main character, Stephen (who is a female, despite the name) is portrayed as being very lonely and unhappy for most of the book, and the ending kind of makes you wonder whether the author thinks it's better not to be a lesbian.anyway, it's an excellent book, which was republished by Virago in 1982 and has been reprinted almost every year since, so it is obviously finding new readers even now.highly recommended!
I read The Well of Loneliness because of was very interested in reading novels on homosexuality.
The book centers around a girl whose father desperately wanted a boy and so named her Stephen.
I found the book up until the end to be very interesting and pleasant.
This book to me seems like a cautionary tale to gay women in society.
The morals that Ms.Radclyffe presents is that heterosexual couples are more acceptable and comfortable then a homosexual couple and that a heterosexual relationship is one that can truly provide the safety and dignity in this world.
I had based the above judgements on reading the first 60 pages or so (in retrospect the weakest section of the entire novel) and upon my decision to incorporate it in a paper on the queer writing of Djuna Barnes and Charles Henri Ford, I felt it was my duty to give it a fair assessment.
And while I might (vastly) prefer the labyrinthine, high modernist obfuscations of Barnes, Ford, Stein and other contemporaneous queer writers, with The Well of Loneliness Hall established a place amongst this illustrious group that is in its own way unique, and ultimately well deserved.
If one thinks of "The Well of Loneliness" as having been written by a homophobic, sexist straight man then it begins to make sense.
The central character (and stand-in for author Radclyffe Hall) is not a self-loathing lesbian at all, he's a transgendered man, and he's not exactly gay-friendly.
A few times I sort of experienced Stephen as unrelatable because of how ridiculously wealthy she was, but then there were people like Jamie and Barbara to add counterpoint to it, there was just enough shown of the servants to undo the idea that Stephen's class were the important people.The tragedy was many layered in that Stephen's ill-fated attempts to find a place and meaning in the world crossed over with many other dissatisfied grey figures such as Puddle.
In the time of the book, I suppose her attitude made more sense but she caused pain to herself as well as others.
There's something so evocative about the time and although the writing style, of course, differs between authors, they all have a certain quality to their work that mesmerises me.
This was a fascinating story, dealing with the life of Stephen from when she's a young girl, through to her teenage years when she makes fateful friendships and love affairs.
It captures the period of English country houses, Lords that go shooting and Ladies that lunch.
Not in a sexy or explicit style, but in the mood of the time and the tone of how the story unfolds.
It really is a must read.
I read this the first time around in 1988, during my first term at university, hiding it from my room mate, under the covers.
I enjoyed it then as the third lesbian book I'd ever read (after Patience & Sarah and Annie on My Mind), but found it harsh.Slogging through it a second time now, for the Lesbian Book Club book of the month, it felt interminable.
That one sentence caused the book to be judged "obscene" and banned.I did enjoy the cry out to the future from 1928.
I remember checking this book out of the public library near my house and hiding it from my parents, so I must have been about 12 the first time I read it.
I think I checked out "One in Ten" along with it, heh.The first time I read this book, I thought it was amazing.
A queer love story from what seemed like forever ago!
At the time, I felt alone and isolated, and it spoke to me.
That being said, this book has its place in the queer lit.
It's a must-read for anyone interested in queer history.
This book is pretty Problematic™ (being a product of its time - content warnings for racism [inc. use of the N-word], sexism, homophobia, and some very outdated theories). But it's still a valuable read in terms of LGBTQ+ lit. If nothing else, it reminds us that there is history. Gay people didn't just appear out of nowhere a few decades ago. Having an identity is not some "trend", as is sometimes accused. That's important to remember. 🌈Maybe I'll have more to write about it another time. Don't hold your breath though.
I was unsure how to rate it, but decided for 2 stars in the end: the story is a very good one, extremely interesting, but the writing is so dull you can't begin to understand if you haven't read it.
I'm sorry to have to say this, but it's what I felt about this book.I understand why it is such an important book in literary history, but I really, really disliked it.First of all, I don't really know why this should be considered as a story of lesbian love, since it is quite clearly the story of a transgender person.
This is/was obviously a very important book, so it feels a shame to give it such a low grade but jaysus it was a bit painful after the novelty of the first 200 pages had worn off.
The fact that it deals with lesbianism/gender issues in such a forthright way, especially for the time in which it was written ('20s)is v impressive.
- important, yes, but well-written no.
Sighing, he turned amber eyes of entreaty first on Stephen, and then on his goddess, Mary.She forgave him the crocus and patted his head.
'It's the sring; it's got into my blood, oh Goddess!
And at the end of this book after I went looking for some rocks, I was overcome with a sense of empowerment; screw the establishment, screw what people think and above all screw being the martyr!
After reading this book I now understand why lesbians have no sense of humour and take things very seriously, because they constantly fighting against the status quo.Technically speaking, I really enjoyed her style of writing, it was good old fashioned 19th century stuff, in theme and tone; the tragedy alone in this book would have made Thomas Hardy proud.
The Well of Loneliness is one of those books, and by looking at the cover of the edition I read there's a clue right there as to the reasoning for the controversy: "A 1920s Classic of Lesbian Fiction".Steven Gordon is a wealthy English woman who is clearly not like other women, even from a young age.
Published in 1928 it is one of the earliest books of lesbianism, preceding and paving the way for Virginia Woolf and others.
Moreover, the trial that banned the book brought the novel, Radclyffe Hall, and the 'lesbian identity' into the public eye in a rather big way.
It beat the dead horse and just kept thrashing--perhaps not unlike Raftery in the novel, who happened to be my favorite character.
I'm not into the politics, because I think the narrative of being 'trapped in the wrong body' panders to normative ideologies and reeks of assimilationist diatribe; further, it just reads in a very tedious, maudlin way.
Stephen herself is a ludicrously static character and completely uninteresting to read about.
This is possibly the most beautiful book I have ever read.
Hall proves that imagery does not have to be tedious and overwraught.
In fact, sometimes the prose was so beautiful that the context almost faded away entirely, and I was simply left with a breath-taking sentence, paragraph or more...Sadly, this book is still relevant 90 years after it was penned.
I thought I would burst when Stephen rehearsed the speech she planned to give Mary about what would happen if they became lovers.
she let Mary go.This book is both exquisitely written and extremely relevant.
Everyone should experience the life and writings of Hall.
I read it because it's a lesbian classic, and someone said that it was one of the first novels where horrible things don't have to happen to its lesbian protagonists.
No, I can't say it's true that terrible things don't happen to the protagonists because of their sexualities.On the other hand, their sexualities are presented as a part of them: not a choice, but something irrevocably stamped into them from birth.
But yet I'm glad I read it, and yes, it made me feel -- feel for the lives of those such as Radclyffe Hall and her characters, who couldn't imagine the kind of life I and others lead today.
Funny enough I find the character of Stephen quite similar to the character of Jo in Louisa May Alcott's Little Women.
They have many of the same thoughts, eerily similar in many passages, but due to Stephen's detachment from everyone but a male role model the masculine undertones that both display are in Hall's work quite pronounced.After reading Hall in a Queer Literature class then later re-reading Alcott for pleasure I'm surprised not more use Alcott's work to highlight the literary choices Hall makes to introduce and strike home her point.
Another difference in literary choice that differs from Alcott's greatly.
Many times, cheap lesbian pulp, written and produced mostly by men, for men, said on their blurbs that their books were “like something of the Well of Loneliness.” Radclyffe Hall carved her own path.
After the federal decision to allow same-sex marriage, the Prime Minister at the time, Stephen Harper, created a law so that any couples immigrating here had to have their relationships evaluated for their legitimacy.
But any time Stephen Gordon despaired at being unable to marry, to provide security for her beloved, I felt for her.
The word queer, in relation to Stephen, is used a total of 16 times.
Also the pervasive (and I don't think entirely conscious) disdain for femme gender presentation -- god, the bits where the narration is picking on poor Jonathan Brockett and his "woman hands" made me want to smack Stephen in the face a little bit.• I think I preferred the earliest sections of the book to the rest.
And of course the conception of what "causes" queerness and how it manifests is based on an outdated framework designed almost entirely by old straight white dudes.• That part where Stephen and Martin are vying for Mary's affections and both of them are being manipulative dickbags instead of leveling with her about the situation, because she is a femme lady and therefore a receptacle for the affection of masculine-of-center people, was super sketchy in a way I found kind of fascinating.
This is honestly one of the most thought provoking and emotionally charged books that I have ever read.Why thought provoking?
Through Stephen, Hall touches upon the many challenges and struggles that LGBT people had to put up with (and still have to put up with) today.
Yeah, there may be isolated examples of towns with accepting people, but mostly the attitudes will be the same as Hall describes in this book.
OK - yes, it's a bit depressing at times, but it is so worth it when you have finished, a sense of accomplishment!
The latter brings to mind Mary Renault, just a bit: Renault is venomous, while Hall is just embittered.
In Hall’s book, “womanly” women and their pursuits, and women in general, are frequently referred to as imperfect, less important than men; even animals recognize the superiority of the human male; also, how about Violet?
It was very, very slow to start, and everything got better when Stephen left Morton.
4.5 stars
well that was overwrought
Instead, it's more about Stephan's feelings of inadequacy and alienation due to her sexual orientation.
While it's clear that Stephan is in love with Mary, the writing about those emotions feels a great deal more restrained than the scenes where she's wishing to be normal or dwelling on her isolation, or even the scene where her beloved horse dies.
The intro classifies it as a coming-of-age novel, which feels a great deal more accurate.Now, on to the lesbian angle.
Stephen's maleness is so over-emphasized that it, at times, feels like it's more of a transgender novel than a lesbian one.
I realised the beauty of this book when, halfway through, i looked up at the sky and realised i too was stuck in the well of loneliness - sitting next to the protagonist as she read the bleak poetic prose out loud to me.
As a child stephen likes to pretend she's Nelson, fancies herself in love with the housemaid, throws her dolls away, wears trousers and rides astride her horse like a boy.Her father is very supportive, and while he's alive she's somewhat protected by him from other peoples opinions and morals.
Maybe this is about feminism and women's rights, but I'm not so sure.The book does seem to give a strange view of lesbianism, of Stephen, and others like her, what I'd call the butch ones, as sort of the only real kind of lesbians.
