https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/324312.Count_Belisarius
Robert Graves's sources for Count Belisarius include some of the great historical works of classical antiquity: Livy, Thucydides, Herodotus, and certainly Xenophon in the Persian war sections.
The book is narrated by Eugenius, the eunuch slave of Antonina, the entertainer and prostitute whom we first meet at a soiree given by the fourteen year old Belisarius's tutor.
Suffice it to say that the last 300 pages are on a par with I, Claudius and somewhat better in my view than Claudius the God. I think Graves's may have wanted to provide a more in-depth opening since details of the late Roman Empire are less well known than those of the classical period.
"For not by numbers of men, nor by measure of body, but by valor of soul is war to be decided."-- BelisariusI love the story of Belisarius.
'Count Belisarius' does make me want to dig deeper into Procopius' History of the Wars of Justinian and The Secret History.
I think the brilliance of writers like Robert Graves and Hilary Mantel is their ability (through historical fiction) to capture something MORE than history.
Procopius can keep his cuckolded history, I'll take Grave's virtuous fiction any day.
Belisarius was a tragic hero, deserving of the title "The Last Roman". An honest and principled man, who reconquered Rome and Carthage with a miniscule force, and died, according to legend, a blind beggar, fallen to the intrigues of the Byzantine court.Graves, who is no slouch when it comes to historical fiction, does well here. He does his research on an all too obscure period of history, and writes a gripping novel. Detailed yet energetic.
Belisarius was a roman general who served Justinian in the sixth century.
Graves uses Procopius as a base for his account and has the story told by of of Antonina's (Belisarius's wife) eunuchs.
It's been a while since I've read about Monophysites and Arians.
Belisarius is portrayed as impossibly good and honourable and both of the main female characters (Antonina and Theodora, Justinian's wife) spend much time scheming.
I enjoyed it and it reads easily.
If you like noble soldiers, a general in the Russell Crowe mould, corrupt bishops and popes, a homicidal emperor, lots of intrigue, courtesans and numerous battles; you will love this.For me, I was a little disappointed; not the same calibre as I Claudius.
I’ve not read any Graves before, and I picked this particular novel over the more well known I, Claudius because I’ve always thought Belisarius’ life story was pretty cool and conveniently contained a bunch of dramatic elements that make it an accessible story – a military prodigy, honourable and loyal to an Emperor that often doubts and fears him, fighting to restore the Western Roman Empire and struggling with the plots and betrayals of supposed allies who are jealous of his prowess.
Of course, if I did that, I would miss out on the fact that Count Belisarius is actually more a biography of the military leader’s remarkable wife, Antonina, and her close childhood friend, the Empress Theodora.
Belisarius is more of an archetypal Roman hero than an actual character, with his only flaws being an excess of virtue.
Fact-based fiction from the Byzantine era.
Lots of battles, but (surprisingly, given the author) unspooled in a monotone.
Belisarius fights off the Persians; he captures Carthage; next Sicily; and soon all of Italy south of the Po. But all the while, undermined by the Eastern Emperor Justinian, jealous of his popularity.Sounds like the makings of a plot.
Yet, because there's so little dialogue, the book becomes a term paper--and a hagiography.
Were Robert Graves alive today, a shorter version -- for this is an ox-stunner of a book -- could be a Wikipedia entry.
Three stars: learned lots; bored to tears.
Reading COUNT BELISARIUS seemed an easy way to begin to wade into an unfamiliar epoch in the history of western culture.But first I had to acquire a copy of the book.
At crucial times in Belisarius' military career that friendship is the only thing that kept him from being completely ostracized from court, if not worse, as Justinian grew to fear Belisarius as a potential rival.The facts upon which this novel is based alone would be enough for a compelling work of fiction.
That too makes this novel an engrossing read.However, it is not as good as Graves' Claudius books.
But the indignation roused by this portrait of irredeemably weak and corrupt rulers -- the cowardly and unworthy Emperor Justinian and his black-hearted manipulatrix of a wife, the Empress Theodora -- was completely out of proportion for a fictionalized retelling of events that took place over one thousand five hundred years ago.
The rat-like Justinian and the calculating and cruel Theodora were examples of power that consumes everyone and everything around it, a parasitic monstrosity that fed on the dying body of the Empire and gave nothing back.
When Belisarius returned, defying the odds, Justinian labeled him a coward who deserted the Empire when it needed him most, then sent him off to fight once more.
The titular Count Belisarius is a devout Orthodox Christian general of the Eastern Roman empire during the reign of Justinian.
Throughout, Belsarius remains a stoic Christian and loyal to the emperor who disdains him while envying his success.What might make this book interesting to someone who is not particularly fascinated by late Roman military history (although, who isn't?) is the rich characterization and the wealth of believable period detail, something that Graves is remarkably adept at.
They are breathing humans of another era, with a completely different understanding of social order.
Well, maybe not a completely different understanding of social order.
He pulled out a cheap paperback edition of Count Belisarius probably because he knew that I was taking Latin I and particularly interested in Greco-Roman history.Belisarius was, historically speaking, a bit beyond me.
Graves' well-researched novel was therefore an introduction to the history of the period when the Empire attempted to regain the West.Some Christians may be offended by Graves' treatment of the role of religion in this world, but, as in all of his historical novels, the text is so well-researched that one could footnote the paragraphs.
This man was Belisarius – horseman, archer, swordsman and military genius, descended from barbarians, but who would earn the title “last of the Romans.” In this epic novel, Robert Graves tells the story of this great general through the words of Eugenius, a eunich slave in the service of Antonina, a one-time dancing girl and prostitute from the circus who was a companion from the Empress Theodora’s disreputable past.
This is an exciting novel – once the groundwork is laid – that tells of all the great battles that Belisarius engaged in (often with his wife in attendance) and all of the political intrigue that went on at the time.
Cast in the form of a chronicle/memoir, written by Eugenius, the eunuch servant of Belisarius's wife, Antonina, this purports to tell the story of Count [Generalissimo] Belisarius, of the Eastern Roman army in the days of Justinian and Theodora, 6th century AD.
The book was more interesting from Belisarius's quelling of the  Nika [Victory] Riots, through his battles to regain the Western Roman Empire and final fate: 350+ pages or so.
I could not get close to any of the characters; writing was mere reporting of facts as Eugenius remembered them.
I read this (at least twice) years ago and I'm currently reading it again, but in the luxurious Folio Society's just-released edition.
If you truly love books, the binding, the generosity of the paper and margins, the typesetting and typography, the Folio Society (of Britain) is for you.
Due to these efforts Justinian could lay claim to almost all the old Roman Empire, the first ruler for a hundred years.
But great success bred enmity from all quarters, not least from Justinian himself and Belisarius fell from grace.One of the great historical works of fiction.
'Count Belisarius' is not written so much in the style of a modern novel, but more after the fashion of ancient historians like Herodotus, replete with seemingly meandering (yet necessary) digressions that will put inattentive readers off.Can't vouch for the strict accuracy of the portrayal of Justinian as a monster, but an enjoyable read.
I found reading this 24-chapter historical novel experientially interesting, however, it may look a bit formidable unless its readers have read some of Robert Graves' works to acquire familiarity with his writing style, detailed description and profound knowledge of the sixth-century Roman Empire.
not quite I Claudius but then, it is hard to write a masterpiece like that; still very gopod and keeping me interested till the end
Graves' eye for historical detail and encyclopedic knowledge of his source material make the fictional world truly engrossing, and kept me happily reading.
I kept wanting better reasons for the characters to behave as they did in the story, but none were ever offered, and that was disappointing.
These shortcomings didn't make the book unenjoyable, but they are something that a lot of historical fiction could do better.
Seeing as the book was published in 1938 (and the narrator is explicitly British), it's difficult not to see this as a final, grand statement about the nature of Britain as the world's Rome, its civilized light and military leader, right as that light is burning its last and that military is headed for one final, pyrrhic victory.
Niet het boek dat ik verwachtte, maar desalniettemin wel interessant. Het is geen roman zoals je die vaak leest. Je leest eigenlijk een aangedikt feitenrelaas van een slaaf over het leven van Belisarius en deze doet dat in al zijn volledigheid. Karakters zijn wat plat weergegeven, maar de Byzantijnse wereld van de zesde eeuw wordt met veel details weergegeven.
Incredible - especially for those who like Roman / Byzantine history. Worth reading also to get a good impression of "perfect man" of early Medieval period.
Instead of being inside the heads of Belisarius or Justinian or their wives, we can only observe them and get no sense of character development or motivation.Graves also attempts to write in the style of a contemporary Roman text.
In the end, to quote Churchill on history, it just becomes one damned event after the other.There's no shortage of research on show, but instead of providing insight, it weighs the book down.Despite the potentially dramatic psychology of the relationship between Belisarius and Justinian, you end up not really caring.
There are few things I love more than my books.
Paradoxically, there are few things that I hate more than moving them.
In my most recent move (I accept my inner gypsy), I faced the daunting task of transporting hundreds of books from my old house, to my new place and also a storage facility.
I generally keep my favorite books on bookshelf display.
But then there are those that must be kept in boxes and stored away - due to lack of bookshelves.
In going through the boxes of books, I re-discover old friends that I had forgotten about.
Hence this book.
Robert Graves was one of the best historical novelists who ever lived, and this book is one of the many showcases of his talent.
It tells the story of Belisarius, Rome's best general in the later days of the Roman Empire.
There are amazing portraits of the real-life historical characters of the day, and I have no idea how true to life Graves was being, although he does seem to have thoroughly researched everything.
If you can imagine Darth Vader as a good guy, you will have some sort of idea of Belisarius.
Very readable and evocative of a time and place long gone now.
A factual account of the lead general under Justinian, 500 Ad - 565 AD. It is a military account of Belisarius successfully conquering Persian, Carthaginians and Goths in Rome. The book is full of military manoeuvres and how to win at ancient warfare. It explained how a fortified city could with stand the attack of an armed army. Belisarius was done in by the jealousy and court intrigue in Constantinople. It reads as a companion piece the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Vol. III. An excellent book, but is an acquired taste.
This is a well-researched, even fantastically researched book about the late Roman/Byzantine empire. I found it a little difficult to follow the story at times, but Robert Graves seems to remain true to his ancient sources which is one of the best things about the book.
groan,graves decided to tell the story in the voice of belisarius' mincing eunuch slave. imagine having perez hilton reading the script to road warrior and you'll have some understanding of why this book has been forgotten.
Re-reading this amazing fictionalized account of one of my favorite periods of history. Graves' narrative is amazingly compelling and fluid. Everyone should read this book!
Outstanding novel by Graves - marred perhaps by the depth to which he explained military proceedings, structures and so on. I want to believe in this fabulous portrait of Belisarius.
This book is everything that pleases me because it gives me information that is pertinent to today.Count Belisarius lived during the reign of Justinian and Theodora, Emperor and Empress of the Roman East in Constantinople.
The picture of war that Graves gives us through his narrator is stunning and worth paying attention to.
The wars of the end of the Roman Empire are not so far different from those that we fight today.And you can't lose when you read Robert Graves.
Sarà anche la dettagliatissima descrizione di ogni sorta di battaglia e manovra militare (argomenti che non suscitano proprio il mio interesse), ma questo libro sembrava non finire più.Sono quattro i veri protagonisti di questa storia: Belisario, sua moglie Antonina (padrona di Eugenio), e la coppia imperiale formata da quelle due volpi di Giustiniano e Teodora.
Peraltro, Eugenio tende a diventare stucchevole quando difende fino alla sfinimento la sua padrona, quando la maggior parte degli storici la definisce senza troppi giri di parole come un'adultera impenitente.Questi quattro protagonisti sono poi circondati da un codazzo di generali, consiglieri, re nemici e cortigiani che danno a Graves l'opportunità di dipingere un ritratto impietoso della corte di Costantinopoli: una realtà in piena decadenza, dove la corruzione e l'incuria la fanno da padrone, dove tutti complottano contro tutti per arricchirsi a discapito del benessere dell'Impero.
As per usual with Graves, his familiarity with and use of historical source material is evident throughout.If you haven't read much about late antiquity or the Byzantine Empire, set aside any image you might have of Rome or Greece.
On the other hand, his wife Theodora isn't all roses and sunshine, but she's a strong-willed and clever operator who deserves a good deal of the credit for Justinian's successes.Belisarius himself is one of the most underrated military minds in all of history, who specializes in running campaigns on a shoestring budget.
