https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126583.Appointment_in_Samarra
O'Hara's distinctive literary voice is both unique and disarming.
His narrative technique and dialogue both are steeped in the jargon of his heyday, Prohibition Era, small town America.
But O'Hara deals with big themes and the idiom of his day becomes secondary.
He seems to want to take on big questions: why is the moth so driven to the flame?
Julian English is an affluent man in his early thirties with a going business, a beautiful wife, Caroline, and social status in Gibbsville, a small town north and west of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania Dutch Country.
His treatment of big themes with such a natural voice sets O'Hara apart.
I had never read anything by O'Hara before, and he probably would have stayed off my radar forever if I hadn't read Running with the Bulls: My Years with the Hemingways, in which Valerie Hemingway states that O'Hara was an author recommended to her by Papa himself(but not this title).
I figured that if a writer is good enough for Papa Hemingway, who am I to pass him by?So I figured I would start at the beginning and I was certainly not disappointed.
Profanity is limited to words that start with "b": its not that daring.
Highly recommended...Papa was right after all.
On the back of this novel, Hemingway offered the following blurb: "if you want to read a book by a man who knows exactly what he is writing about and has written it marvelously well, read Appointment in Samarra." Unfortunately, the subject John O'Hara knows so much about, and about which he does occasionally pen very beautiful pages, is the social life of the country club set in a little backwater city in central Pennsylvania.
As for the style, well, I agree with Hemingway- O'Hara can write, with a lyricism and raw honesty that approaches F.
I have given the narration four stars.I will speak now of the title, Appointment in Samarra and the epigraph with which O’Hara’s story begins.
The epigraph that begins the novel is this:“A merchant in Baghdad sends his servant to the marketplace for provisions.
Soon afterwards, the servant comes home white and trembling and tells him that in the marketplace he was jostled by a woman, whom he recognized as Death and she made a threatening gesture.
The merchant then goes to the marketplace and finds Death and asks why she made the threatening gesture.
This is on The Modern Libraries Top 100 Novels? I can see no reason why. It's a good book - but top 100? Come on! This should be like # 552 on a list of the 1000 best novels.
I first read this first novel by O’Hara in the late 1950s, when I was in high school.
O’Hara was not very kind to or with his characterizations, and the novel created an uproar in the region.
One of the right people we meet is Julien English.
Julien, like most of the other male members of the club, drank to excess.
The key incident from which the story flows is the time that Julien tosses a drink into the face of Harry Reilly.
We also learn that people are not who they seem to be when faced with disruptions like this.
Julian English's name is a clue to the origin of the social set of rules he is forced to live to earn a living and be respected.
Cars, a symbol of freedom and escape, is obviously the author's vivid choice of irony for his Julian and this symbol of getting away is literally in English's face every day sitting in his car lot.
English's father is the town's doctor who cures everyone's sickness and he wanted Julian to become a doctor.
By the end of the novel Julian has without consciously meaning to begun burning bridges to the life he believes he wants in Gibbsville.
Segundo a sinopse, Encontro em Samarra é um clássico da literatura norte-americana, com momentos de 
Like The Great Gatsby but much much better.
It seems like Appointment in Samarra (SOM-a-rah) is going to be another one of those light comedies about silly rich people, the kind we've seen quite enough of already thank you - and then it gets close and slips the knife in.Julian English is a useless person: an idle rich loser who drinks too much.
One night he throws a drink into some other idle loser's face.
It's one of your better fictional slaps in the face when he - and you - suddenly realize that this isn't funny.(view spoiler)[So Julian commits suicide.
Maybe the lengthy backstory interludes (including Caroline's entire sexual history) would make more sense.
Scott Fitzgerald." I’m not exactly sure what that means (whether dear Fran had her own ax to grind with FSF, or whatever), but AIS is built around the self-destruction of Julian English, Cadillac salesman, who ultimately just gives up on life, drinking himself to oblivion, his journey punctuated by violence and the alienation of all in his sphere.Like the failure found in The Great Gatsby, the story O’Hara (who felt shut out of the elite world of his day) tells makes JE a victim of that world, and perhaps a martyr to the American ideal of success; also the cause of tragedy (if self-destruction in the form of burning in the crucible of unrequited love of a “rich girl” is a form of self-destruction -- and I think it is) in Gatsby.Prohibition, the depression, and the fuel that the better-off used to keep their social engine running -- black market booze -- are all featured in O’Hara’s gimlet-eyed portrait.
A remarkably succinct novel about social standing, gender relations, economic disadvantage, sex and death.John O'Hara is often thought a middling writer, but for at least the 200-odd pages of this work he is an absolute master.
Several times I thought to myself "Yes, that's exactly the way it is, but nobody would write it that way"Someone asked me if the story was depressing.
I would recommend this to anyone who likes "Breaking Bad" as the two works share the same central theme: that actions have consequences.
It is essentially the chronicle of a marriage in decline between the self-destructive Julian English and his somewhat selfish and cold-hearted wife Caroline English.
It seems to me that the Coen brothers must have used this novel as one of their sources for their complex and entertaining film set in the 30s, Miller’s Crossing.
I see that expressions like “giving me the high hat” found their way into the dialogue of the Coen brothers' film.
Furthermore, there are Irish gangsters, references to Julian losing his hat (a major theme in the film), a gangster boss with an obsession with a less than true mistress, a potentially gay gang lieutenant, and a club manager, Foxie Lebrix, who has an approximation in the film).
Oh, yes, the book is all about sex, starting on the first page.
I was reading it in tandem with another book written simultaneously -- Steinbeck's To a God Unknown, which was published in 1933, Samarra in 1934.
Steinbeck's second book, whose dialogue is as lame and clunky as O'Hara's is accurate and zingy, is also all about sex in a different way.
(One big reason it was Steinbeck, and not O'Hara, who was eventually awarded a Nobel Prize.) So there were times when the trashy aspects of this book threatened to scuttle the artistry.
There's something about the pleasantville genre that never quite sat square with me- the difference between the public persona and the ineffable "self" that makes a mess of so much decorum.
Writing after 1968 affords us that judgement.But here's John O'Hara, writing over the winter, publishing in '34.
His apparently bibulous inclinations makes him one of the best writers about character and drink, at least on a technical level.
Maybe its just O'Hara.
pretty darn good minor classic about fitzgerald's famous "lost generation"...I really enjoyed this when I read it a million years ago.
I just completely plugged into it and read it till the early hours of the morning.
Great platter of minor characters and a well-paced plot leading inevitably to the satiric denouement where the flapping and philosophizing ends in tragedy because the participants lack the necessary self-reflection to understand how existentially unmoored they are in the consumerist society driving them to make the WASP scene with all its concomitant superficiality and repressed mimicry of English gentry: gentility, propriety, conspicuous consumption, etc.
The narrator, I'm told, is Death. That reminds me of The Book Thief in that way.
The book also has some sociological value in that it documents a fading era of social anxiety and petty prejudices -- you learn the class status and religious affiliation of every single character in "Appointment at Samarra." Such stratification seems to have fascinated O'Hara, whom the sympathetic introduction to the edition I read depicted him as a self-important, social-climbing lush.
The central character is one Julian English (does it get WASPier?), a son of privilege in a mid-sized Pennsylvania town who self-destructs over one Christmas.
Appointment in Samarra is an American Classic by John O'Hara. He describes the life of a young man in small town America before the Depression who has it all. When he makes a big mistake on Christmas his downward spiral is aided by people and events and shows that it is rather difficult to evade one's fate. This is also implied by the Arabian parable in the beginning of the book.The book is very well written and , although it is depressing, I enjoyed it very much.
Vengono così allo scoperto tutte le ipocrisie e le incoerenze dei personaggi che popolano questa cittadina, i sottili intrecci e i giochi di potere di questi borghesi arricchiti, i rancori e i pettegolezzi, fino ad un epilogo inaspettato e scioccante in cui si assiste all'autodistruzione del giovane English.Chi ha letto Fitzgerald e Yates avrà già praticamente trovato molto dei loro romanzi in questo brevissimo riassunto, dai sogni di una vita lussuosa e senza impedimenti al triste declino davanti alla realtà della situazione.
Scott Fitzgerald gepriesen, dank meiner Schwäche für unterschätzte Genies hatte das Buch bei mir einen Riesenbonus, der sich am Ende eher als Mühlstein erweisen sollte, dabei fing alles so gut an.Mit einem programmatischen Zitat von Somerset Maugham, das den Titel als Verabredung mit dem Tod erklärte.
Einer spielt im Country-Club wo Julien English, der gewissermaßen zum Patriziat von Gibbsville gehört, dem einflussreichen Emporkömmling Harry Reilly ein Glas Whiskey ins Gesicht kippt, als der mal wieder seine ollen Kamellen zum Besten gibt.Der aus Überdruss begangene Angriff auf einen ziemlich nachtragenden Mann, dem der nicht allzu geschäftstüchgtige Cadillac-Händler eine große Summe Geld schuldet, ist der Beginn einer vom Alkohol befeuerten Abwärtsspirale, in deren Verlauf es sich der allseits beliebte Julien English mit allen maßgeblichen Leuten verscherzt, einschließlich der eigenen Ehefrau, die ihn am zweiten Weihnachtsfeiertag sitzen lässt, nachdem ihr Julien mit der aktuellen Favoritin des obersten Schnapsbosses vor die Tür gegangen ist.
Dabei sein ist alles, und wenn mal über den Durst getrunken wird, kann man darüber lachen.
Und jedem selbstgemachten Desaster folgt eine noch schlimmere Katastrophe.Ein Weihnachtsfest reicht, um alles zu zerstören, was Julian in seinem Leben aufgebaut hat...O´Haras großartige Schilderung der Gesellschaft ist ungemein präzise und detailliert, die Dialoge glaubwürdig und auf den Punkt gebracht (besser als in den meisten Dramen seiner Zeit).
Aber Julian kann sich auf keine aufkommende Jugendbewegung und den Geist des Rock´n´Roll beziehen, er ist ein erwachsener Mann, der mit seinem Suff sein Leben und das seiner Familie zerstört.
Plus, Julian’s afraid people might think it’s because Harry dotes on Julian’s wife, Caroline.The narrative passes, and then one partygoer tells another that Julian did indeed toss his drink into Harry Reilly’s face, and as the inside of the book says, “in one rash moment born inside a highball glass, Julian breaks with polite society and begins a rapid descent toward self-destruction.”Just a small indiscretion in the scheme of things, really, but in 1930s suburban Pennsylvania, Julian’s action threatens to topple the carefully placed house of cards that the city of Gibbsville and its elite have created.
The plot takes place in late-December 1930, over essentially a 36 hour time-frame in the fictional small Pennsylvania town of 'Gibbsville' during the Christmas holidays.Julian English and his lovely wife, Caroline, are young thirty-somethings who have everything in front of them.
At that moment everything about Julian and Caroline's life begins to unravel and spiral out of control.
Julian's actions precipitated consequences, but each of them were indeed manageable had he done or said the right things.
Be a good person, love others, and most importantly love yourself too.Appointment in Samarra is a great American novel, and one that I unhesitatingly recommend.
Death speaks: There was a merchant in Baghdad who sent his servant to market to buy provisions and in a little while the servant came back, white and trembling, and said, Master, just now when I was in the market-place I was jostled by a woman in the crowd and when I turned I saw it was Death that jostled me.
Then the merchant went down to the marketplace and he saw me standing in the crowd and he came to me and said, Why did you make a threatening gesture to my servant when you saw him this morning?
3.5*/5Απ'τα πλέον φημισμένα βιβλία της αμερικανικής λογοτεχνίας που όταν ετοιμαζόμουν να διαβάσω στα αγγλικά, πέτυχα σε παλιοβιβλιοπωλείο την ελληνική έκδοση του 1983.Είναι χωρίς αμφιβολία ένα ιδιαίτερο κείμενο που διαβάζεται σε μια καθισια, το οποίο μέχρι να μπει στην τελική του ευθεία με είχε αφήσει σχετικά αδιάφορο.
Το βιβλίο περιγράφει τις 3 τελευταίες κ καταστροφικές μέρες του Τζούλιαν καθώς από ευηπόληπτο μέλος της φανταστικής επαρχίας του Γκιμπσβιλ μετατρέπεται σε ντροπή της κλειστης κοινότητας που ανήκε όλα τα χρόνια της ζωής του.Το ύφος θυμίζει Φιτζέραλντ μέχρι να αρχίσει η κατηφόρα όπου στο μυαλό μου ήρθε το Κάτω απ'το Ηφαίστειο, σκέψη μάλλον βέβηλη αν λάβω υπόψη ότι το τελευταίο είναι ένα απ'τα 4-5 αγαπημένα μου βιβλία.
Part of the challenge this summer is to read new-to-me authors.
John O'Hara is definitely one I'll be reading more.
I have complained to myself that starting a book is often slow, then I get accustomed to the author's style by about page 50 and it takes off.
My mind needed no adjustment for O'Hara's writing style, and I was right in stride by page 2.Gibbsville is a place unfamiliar to me.
I never moved in these high social circles and, frankly, am pretty much unaware of them now.
My experience doesn't allow me to do a reality check.
John O'Hara may not have had the most felicitous style of his generation, but he had plenty to say. APPOINTMENT IN SAMARRA rounds out my list of five English-language novels (in my case, all 20th-Century American novels). This is the underappreciated one; I can't honestly say that of BABBITT, THE GREAT GATSBY, TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD or even LOLITA. The last day in the life of Julian English, just as the Great Depression is beginning to be felt. Realistic, gutsy, surprising, heartbreaking.
Reilly is well-liked, free with his money, was once a suitor of Julian’s wife before she married him, and has lent Julian himself a large sum of money to keep the dealership afloat.
His tenuous marriage in serious trouble and more or less cut out from polite society, Julian considers fleeing or suicide.This is an astonishing novel, with a large cast of fully-drawn characters from all walks of life, and complete with cutting commentary on the vapid lives of high society.
The coda, in which Life Goes On, and we see that Harry had put no importance to the thrown drink, makes Julian’s “appointment” with destiny all the more tragic.
I just finished this book - not sure how I missed reading it before now.
I found it to be compelling and chilling.
O'Hara deals with themes that are complex and mature.
I read some reviews that I think miss the point of this book.
There is no point in summarizing the plot in these reviews.
Those summaries always exist on the book jacket.
If you like books about people, about what makes them tick, about families, about the complexity of the human condition, read this.
And don't under estimate its complexity.
