https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563098.George_Washington
I read this to my eight-year-old today, and probably years ago once or twice as well.
The illustrations are pretty, and the story goes by quickly without boring anyone.
There was one blatantly bizarre mention of Washington's slaves beaming with happiness to see him return after the war, and an illustration of, well, stereotypical Indians, legs askew and feathers in their caps.
I was able to edit the text as I read aloud and we talked about the illustrations.
I don't know if I want to like this book.
For that reason it rates an "I liked it," misgivings, editing-on-the-fly, and all.
I also read Pocahontas to the children in August, and was enchanted by the illustrations and the picture of Pocahontas and her bravery, so after reading Pocahontas and Benjamin Franklin, I felt like the straightforward history of George Washington was a little bit of a letdown.However, this was a read-aloud to the children, so here are their perspectives:Ellie (6): Fell asleep.
He became our first president, and perhaps one of our best known presidents.Despite the fact that I felt like this one was a little bit of a letdown, I intend to read the children their book of Buffalo Bill before the end of the year or early in January.
The text gave an interesting and unique narrative of George Washington's life, but the illustrations were quite offensive.
On the next page the text states, "George Washington was everywhere, and his hundreds of slaves and servants kept everything spick and span and in beautiful order." The accompanying illustration shows the wealthy Washington and his family dressed in their finery and ambling happily along in front of a golden field of wheat.
The field is peppered with the ambiguous forms of slaves, shirtless and without faces.I realize that this book was written in the 1930's and that Washington had slaves.
1) Book summary, in your own words (3 pts)This book talks about George Washington, "the father of our country." It tells the story of how it all started.
George Washington was the very first President of The United States.
This book informs readers the trials ad great accomplishments he went through to get there.2) Grade level, interest level, lexile (1 pt)2nd/3rd grade3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)classroom library/social studies4) Individual students who might benefit from reading (1 pt)student interested in how The United States became 5) Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)6) Whole class use (read aloud) (1 pt)read aloud7) Related books in genre/subject or content area (1 pt)none8) Multimedia connections (audio book, movie) available (1 pt)none
I read this to my 7&5 year old daughters as part of the Charlotte Mason - Ambleside Online curriculum and we loved it!!! The pictures were beautiful, the book is paced well for younger or older children. The historical content was both factual and interesting - I myself learned a good deal from this book (I grew up hating history). I highly recommend this for anyone in classical conversations - cycle 3 especially!!!
A wonderful book highlighting George Washington’s accomplishments and leadership which led to the independence of this great country. This book is beautifully illustrated and to the point. I read this book to my 3 children (11, 10, 8) as additional reading as we study early American history. This book highlights George Washington’s moral integrity and hard work along with his remarkable leadership which led him to be appointed as our first president.
Another beloved d'Aulaire classic that my kids adored. They are scheming going to Mount Vernon and Yorktown for our next vacation. I love how these books make historical figures come alive for us. There were one comment in this one (regarding slavery) that made me think "hmmmm", but I still these books are well done and well worth reading.
I really enjoy the D'Aulaire's books, especially to teach history to a broad range of ages (in our case age 3-11). The illustrations are wonderful, and we especially enjoy learning history by focusing on individual historical figures.
👍👍👍
We read this book in one sitting. d'Aulaire as always, creates beautiful images and interesting text. The kids enjoyed listening and it was a nice introduction to George Washington.
This is a classic book (why do we think the latest is the best?) and a favorite of lots of kids (and me, too). I recommend any book written by the d'Aulaires.
A wonderful biography of George Washington for elementary level readers. Full page illustrations.
Again, this had good information from birth to death along with the beautiful illustrations that the d'Aulaires are known for.
I have seen some reviews that make note of how slavery is dealt with (there is a picture of George riding his horse around the fields filled with happy, smiling slaves as well as other written references to of this sort).
Instead of shying away from this, which was a prevalent attitude of the time this was written, I used it to open up discussion of the realities of slavery with my 4th grader and how it has taken a long time for people to even begin to start understanding just how truly evil it is and how it's still impacting our society today.
George Washington was more than just the first president of the United States, he was an empowering leader to many people.
This book is a biography about George Washington and his establishment throughout life.
This book can be used in grade 2, 3, and 4.
It is appropriate for these grade levels and George Washington is a leader that people still talk about today.
The book contains colorful pictures that intrigue elementary school students and maintain their attention.
This book could be used for a paper or research project on an American leader.
The student can locate all information and be able to understand easily.
“George Washington,” is a non-fiction biography about the 1st American President. The book’s pages are designed like web pages, which should be comforting to students today. While the book wasn’t exactly exciting, it would however provide a fantastic resource for students ranging from 2nd grade to 8th grade in my opinion. The book is filled with tons of facts, and colorful historic photo depictions of several of George Washington’s triumphs. Clearly I would recommend this book to anyone needed data for a book report, or someone who is just curious about George Washington.
This book is great introduction to a great man, an irreplaceable man.
As important as all the framers of the United States were, as important as the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution are, when the principles of freedom were defined and the plans complete someone still had to make it happen.
But the leader of the push for independence and freedom also owned slaves.
This book does not shy away from this point.
There is much to learn and much to discuss in this book.
The d'Aulaire's were a great team, they produced many well researched books.
My kids were enthralled with this. At one point someone commented, "George Washington moved around a lot just like us!" They were able to identify with some of his earlier life.The illustrations were lovely and the text easy to understand. It was a great introduction for the younger kids. My older boys will need more but this was a fantastic start.Highly recommended.
The boys and I have really enjoyed these biographies by the d'Aulaires as part of the Beautiful Feet Early American History curriculum. My only quibble with this one is the portrayal of Washington's slaves as happy and adoring. Maybe they did respect him but let's not pretend they weren't oppressed and adored their position as slaves.
A really lovely childhood introduction to George Washington. Beautiful illustrations make this a treat for the eyes, and the text does a good job of not making Washington inhuman, while emphasizing his strong qualities. There is also a note at the end about making sense of a man who believed in person freedom but still owned slaves.
The pictures were very nice (as always in the D'Aulaire books). This history of George Washington's was not quite as captivating as some of the other biographies by these authors, but it still gave us a nice glimpse into his life. He was a great man indeed!
Another excellent installment of the D'Aulaire biography series. The narrative covers from Washington's childhood through his post-Presidency retirement.It doesn't get better than this. Highly recommended.
I love the artwork in all the D'Aulaire books, and this one was no exception. The biography covered Washington's life and taught me something I don't remember knowing before, that he was a surveyor of land as a first career. Not outstanding, but a solid read.
My eight year old daughter loves these books! They give her lots of educational information and she doesn't even know she's learning! They are great living books. Love them all!
I love this series, especially for the wonderful art work!
These are great books. They are a good supplement to our American History this year.
I liked when George Washington became President. - Chantry
Not our favorite of the series, but still a good peek into the life of our first president.
I loved the children's approach to this book and the tinge of humor
Do not read this book until you have read Pocahontas because Pocahontas is in the same place as George Washington lived.
Another great d'Aulaire!! I think he liked this one even more than Columbus and wants to memorize all the Presidents :)
