https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15617.The_Outsider
Li ricevetti prima di sera ed ebbi di cosa essere soddisfatto.
Capii d'avere a che fare con un uomo avvelenato da idee malsane".Al centro dell'opera di Wright c'è l'individuo con le sue pulsioni.
È interessante come quell'individuo venga contrapposto alla società che lo ospita.
Le impronte di quel cammino si ritrovano nelle pagine in cui il protagonista va alla ricerca della propria assoluta libertà.
si può fuggire dai propri affetti, dai propri impegni, dal proprio lavoro, ma come evadere dalle sbarre del proprio cuore?
-Perché certa gente è destinata come Giobbe a vivere un'interminabile dibattito con la propria visione della vita?
If "man is nothing in particular...", a characteristic feared by man, a reality hidden behind and compensated by the constructs of civilization and her systems, Cross seeks meaning by abandoning the imprisoning perspectives of institutionalized marginalization and embraces the full potential of life uninhibited.
The outsider either suffers an ignorant consciousness of the world around him, or an awakened, damning consciousness of the soul within himself and how it cannot exist as fully human within a system bent on power and afraid of its people's own potential and propensity toward life.
he took a lot of heat for this one because it departs in some ways from his earlier writings, especially for its scathing critique of the communist party and the white left and its exploration of existentialism. i think it's brilliant and deep thinking on violence, identity, victimization, political organizing, love, and the human condition.
There's the main character, a young man who cuts off relations with his family, acts out of his own idealism and disenchantment with the world, commits murder more than once, tries to help the people he thinks are worth helping, then there's the sympathetic detective who has him figured out.
He has different views on society, power, socio-economic relationships, idealism and philosophy, but it's only in his negation of those other ideas that you come close to what he really believes.
This is all wrapped up in the story and characters, really well done so it doesn't come off preachy.
Great novel by 1950's Harlem Renaissance black writer Richard Wright. Its an expressly philosophical book that includes the ideas of Nietzsche, Sartre, Kierkegaard and more. The story of a black existentialist bordering on nihilism who is torn between fascists and communists. It blurs the line between a pulpy crime story and a high-literary novel.All my praise.
I unfortunately read this at a time when it must have been incomprehensible. Dewed with youth, affecting an angst and still noshing fast food while often remaining awake for 24 hours at a clip. I only recall two episodes: the queue for the train and the encounter (molestation?) and the final slugfest of the ideologues. Perhaps my latest trek will lead me back to this door.
I enjoyed this book. The first part has an amazing tension that is very driving and admirable and makes me want to write heavily-plotted novels. Toward the end, the novel becomes a little bogged down in the specifics of ideas/philosophies/etc... which is okay but sometimes I felt like I already understood much of it from the first part and that it was only there to make sure I got it just in case I happened to be sort of dense. But that was okay. It's still good.
Richard Wright's 'The Outsider' is a phenomenal novel that draws the reader to the dark side of the life of the main character Cross Damon.
This extraordinary character introduces the reader to a man who lives outside the norms, expectations, rules, and laws of society.
Wright allows the reader to imagine the life of an individual who has little emotional regard for his family, who constantly succombs to his desire for women, and whose destructive ideologies decide the fate of his life.
This intriguing page turning novel will appeal to the reader from beginning to end.
Great book that not only deals with race, but also deals with man feeling free enough to behave however he wants without thinking about the consequences. Interesting how his character develops from a man trapped in his life, to a man completely free and then back towards a life where his actions have effects on everything and everyone else around him. I would recommend this book.
This is by far Richard Wright's best book. It is based on sartre and camus, but Wright adapts the questions of existentialism to the slums of 1930s black Chicago. I recommend it to anyone who likes the bizarre, the eerie, and the provocative.
i can't remember the last time i was so happy that a book finally ended.
Absolutely engaging! There are so many emotional memories and moments tied to this book, I’ll have to wait and write a summary.4.5
L’opportunité d’échapper à ses ennuis et de recommencer une nouvelle vie s'offre à lui quand il passe pour mort dans un accident de métro.
(...) La vie humaine n'est-elle pas qu'une sorte de peur glacée qu'a l'homme de ce qu'il lui serait possible d’être ?" Le procureur qui l'interroge, tout de lucidité et d'empathie, n'est pas loin de partager la détresse existentielle de son suspect : "Toute ma vie j'ai été hanté par le sentiment que cette vie que nous vivons était feinte, et j'en ai été d'autant plus meurtri qu'elle EST une feinte.
C'est lui le criminel..." Damon finira par confesser ses crimes mais aura ces ultimes paroles: "...
Uncle Tom’s Children does avoid this kind of descent but does as the cost of showing a depraved representation of black life in America.In this novel, it becomes a false messiah, as it does in Invisible Man.Section 3: 265-310“Cross rose and went out of the room, his eyes avoiding Bob who sobbed on the floor.
But as the above passage suggests, being the outside and deceiving the insiders (of the Party, of Society) he has the keen observation post, and the intelligence to way in heavily of the various illusions he himself is not a party to.As I finished the novel, like with other Richard Wright books, I am not sure what to make of it and have to work through my sense of its meaning, how it positions Black men (and women) in America.
Richard Wright's "The Outsider" tells the story of Cross Damon, a black man living in Chicago around 1950 who, after a narrowly escaping death in a freak 'El' derailment, lets the world believe he is dead and leaves for New York City to live as a ghost, a non-entity, an outsider.
And above that, it's a beautifully written, fully self-aware novel about the existence of those who never seem to fit.
I wanted to like Cross but I couldn't stand his character most of the time.
He was extremely intelligent which was probably the only thing I admired about him.
The writing was actually pretty good and only once was I really unable to keep reading- if you read the book, it's the part where Cross talks for maybe twenty pages about his viewpoints.
It was probably important to understanding his character but I just couldn't read it.
And finally, the book seemed to be teeming with important themes but none in particular really stuck out to me.
Still have 100 pages left, but I feel pretty safe rating this five stars.
I have yet to read a book by Wright I didn't love.
He writes so clearly and engagingly he can make even dense philosophical passages breezy.
This is not for you if you don't like novels of ideas or novels that deal with political, social, and idealogical issues.
It's essentially Wright's take on an existential novel.
The books that it seems most similar to are The Stranger and Crime and Punishment.
Like my favorite existentialist writing, it does all the character, scene, and sensory work necessary to give lifeblood to its ideas.
A shocking turn a quarter of the way through leads you barreling through the type of experience whose joy we all might seemingly idendtify with. Good Read.
great work of potent relevance to us today, a timeless clasic!! loved it!!!
This is one of Wright's most amazing works. I could not put it down.
THE OUTSIDER tells the story of Cross Damon - a man who has an opportunity to assume a new identity and start life anew, but can he ever truly be comfortable in society?
Indeed, a central idea throughout the book is that Cross Damon feels like an outsider because unlike Christians, Communists, Fascists, Capitalists, he fails to adopt any central ideology or meaning in the world.
Declaring himself as "propaganda proof", Cross notes that humans have created "untruth" to help cope with the realities of life, and these unrealities manifest as myth, religion, or political ideology.
It is an attempt to find an ideology that provides "an organization" for life.
Like Native Son, Wright explores the psychology of racism and economic oppression through the eyes of a lumpen Black character -- this time a working class intellectual who becomes an anti-communist serial killer after reading Nietzsche, Heidegger, Kierkegaard etc (yes, really) and after suffering a series of hardships in his personal life.
As a document of a radical writer agonizing over the failures of his communist commitments in the midst of the Cold War, this book is an extraordinary read.In my opinion, The Outsider is a sharper and stronger novel than Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man, both published the same year or thereabouts.
I have so much good to say about this novel; I just wish wright didn't feel the need to mirror John Galt in Atlas Shrugged so often.
The fact it was published 64 doesn't.
diminish that fact.
If anything, it highlights the agons which carries this nation through the election of 2016, but the reader should not pick it up for that reason.The one reason to read it is Cross Damon.
This is a character-driven story that committed me to the fate he shapes with his words and choices.
Damon's story carried me through tense conversation and verbal jousting over ideas.
Read this book.
I wish it had ended differently. The thought processes shared were spellbinding for me because of the time period in which this book was written. It made me think about the true purpose of a person, and if, in the process of living, do you always maintain that there is more in store for this life, or is there a teetering back and forth between this and knowing that you are doing exactly what you are supposed to be doing? One thing I took away from this book that is timeless is that your choices truly shape your destiny.
This was gripping in so many ways. It was puzzling and eye opening and dark and serious. This book haunted me when I put it down. I found myself thinking about the main character and his take on things. I found myself trying to imitate his stoicism and the way he could be so emotionally detached was remarkable. This was brilliant and the way the story intertwined and and weaved its way around issues and ideals was astonishing.
A rich, Dostoyevsky-inspired novel of African-American crime and punishment with long speeches about the nature of humanity and oppression. Not a perfect book, a fascinating bookend to his early Native Son, with which it shares many similarities that accentuate their differences.Well worth reading today.
I really like reading this book. It was engaging and thought provoking and interesting. The issues seem universal and relevant today.
Disappointing effort from author of the tremendous Native Son
It was as though one felt that one had been promised something and when that promise had not been kept, one felt a sense of loss that made life intolerable; it was as though one was angry, but did not know toward what or whom the anger should be directed; it was as though one felt betrayed, but could never determine the manner of the betrayal.""His heart went out to these rejected men whose rebel laughter banished self-murder from his thoughts.
Despite this, his sensibilities had not been repressed by God’s fearful negations as represented by his mother; indeed, his sense of life had been so heightened that desire boiled in him to a degree that made him afraid.
"Modern man still believes in magic; he lives in a rational world but insists on interpreting the events of that world in terms of mythical forces."- After reading Native Son, I thought I was prepared for what Richard Wright had in stored with this book, however Native Son although it was a genius of a novel, it was only the 1st level of Richard Wrights literary genius.
Cross, no matter how intelligent, no matter how God like he appears to be when you really analyze his character--he is alone, no one understands him, so he is left with his true desires, feelings, and thoughts of the world he lives in.
