https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634067.The_Golden_Fleece
Description: THE GOLDEN FLEECE - a cloak tossed to earth by a drunken Zeus, a sheepskin book of alchemic secrets or the gilded epidermis of a young human sacrifice named Mr. Ram — nobody knows.
But Graves is quite sure that, whatever the Golden Fleece was, the voyage of Jason & his Argonauts really happened.
I am not a fan of Carl Milles's Swedish Poseidon, he made the face trollish...Another join the dots moment happened when it clicked with me that Cersei = Circe.
Graves also looks into the religious beliefs that gave rise to the Greek deities, and suggests that much of the friction between the tribes in the region was a result of clashing cultures and religions, most notably the worshipping of the Triple Goddess which was threatened by the newer religion of the Olympian Gods.Thanks to the presence of Orpheus and Hercules on the Argo, this book is about so much more than the story of Jason and the Golden Fleece alone.
All in all, this book is a thorough introduction to Greek mythology and ancient Greece, and a wonderful achievement at that.
I never thought I would give up on a book by Robert Graves, but this one I did.
I assume Graves did this as a way of reproducing how the story might have been told orally, but also I think in order to cram in his interpretations of just about every Greek myth you can think of.
To give one example, in a banqueting hall where the Argonauts are feasting, there is a painting on the wall showing Daedalus and Icarus flying, so Orpheus tells in great detail the story involved, explaining how some things were misinterpreted and misunderstood, what might really have happened, and so on.I got about halfway through, and maybe I shall return to it one day, but somehow I doubt it.
Another great classic by Graves, on the mythology of the Argos and the Argonauts, also reads very well like a travelogue.
Interesting twist of on the Argunauts mithology. Probably had siginificant influence on the recent "Song of Troy" written by McCullough Colleen.The gods play a big role in everything that happens in the book, however they are not as active players as in normal mithology, and they are more rooted into the beleifs all people.
This one's a tough read. Better have your cliff's notes handy if you want to keep up. I was really looking for something with more entertainment value. This book did not deliver on that front, unfortunately.
Read this book for the first time when I was sixteen, revisited it some time ago. An Epic read I think has never been well crafted as this. The story is sublime, the setting quite eery. Jason is tough, his Argonauts are dauntless, the language is clean. Really enjoyed it.
The dead may speak the truth only, even when it discredits themselves." So ends the "Invocation" that begins Robert Graves' The Golden Fleece (1944), Graves having asked the ghost of Little Ancaeus, the last survivor of the Argonauts, to "unfold the whole story" of their quest to retrieve from far Colchis the sacred Fleece.
Ironically, the priestess who interviews Ancaeus decides that his knowledge of "indecent" and "topsy-turvy" Greek culture (in which, unbelievably, people worship fathers and women are forced to marry men and remain faithful to them and let them ride on top when making love) is too dangerous to let loose on her island and so has her Goat men servants stone him to death.
Want to feel like you are Jason (or one of the Argonauts) and not just reading a summary?
Sea voyages aren't always comfortable--and neither is this novel--but if you want to sail around the Greek world without skipping events, this is top shelf.
I enjoy how everyone is superstitious and mindful of the Gods, but the Gods aren't on stage like party extra's and wallpaper, some are even skeptical of the Gods.
It changed my mental image of what society was like before the Greeks (for the better.)This book plays an interesting part in the history of the Triple-goddess, but its importance exceeds the scope of this review.

If you want to learn about greek mithology and amuse yourself, this is your book...
A weird by enjoyable retelling of the Hercules Myth by the man who wrote I Claudius.
Great retelling of the Argonautika. Retains the spirit of the original and adds a slightly bawdy and exuberant spirit highly appropriate to the tale.
I like this particular Graves' effort a mere one Pegasus wing feather width more than his extremely worthy others.
(view spoiler)[ Τώρα, βέβαια, πώς γίνεται να βλέπει ο Λύγκας τα φαντάσματα των νεκρών πάνω στο πλοίο αυτό είναι άλλο θέμα!
Επιπλέον είναι τόσο γρήγορες οι εναλλαγές των τόπων και των γεγονότων, τα οποία δεν προλαβαίνεις με τίποτα να τις απολαύσεις.
Ακολουθεί χαρακτηριστικό παράδειγμα: (Το κείμενο που ακολουθεί είναι προϊόν της φαντασίας μου.
Οποιαδήποτε ομοιότητα με πραγματικά πρόσωπα ή βιβλία δεν είναι καθόλου συμπτωματική.)(Φανταστικό απόσπασμα από το υποτιθέμενο βιβλίο του Glyn Iliffe:)Η ασάφεια των αισθήσεων, η οποία είναι χαρακτηριστικό γνώρισμα του ύπνου, έδωσε σταδιακά τη θέση της στην οξύτητα της πραγματικότητας.
"Είμαι ένα βήμα πιο κοντά στο στόχο μου" σκέφτηκε.
Overall I did like this book, but I have very mixed feelings about it.
But as we have no focalizer and an omniscient narrator, I couldn't really connect to the characters and felt very detached from the story, it just didn't draw me in.
It is a very interesting book, though.
I also liked that none of the characters are plain and perfect heroes.
So while I wasn't drawn into the story and sometimes felt bored by the plot, I liked how much the book had me thinking all the time, and the many details it offers.
Hercules, My Shipmate is an amazing accomplishment.
It's a feasible "true" story of Jason and the Argonauts, which really immerses you in the culture of the ancient Greeks and their neighbors.
Best of all is his vision of Hercules as a violent brute suffering from some sort of psychological disorder that is viewed through the lens of Greek culture as being hounded by vengeful ghosts.
All in all, it is a rich vision of a heroic quest, but not one I'd actually recommend to anyone but the most determined fan of Hellenistic antiquity.
A wonderful novel. Graves retells the story of the Golden Fleece, Jason, Medea and the Argonauts, superimposing upon it a struggle between the old, matrineal gods and their followers, and the new, patriarchal gods of Olympus and their followers (many of the protagonists are inbetween though). All magic has been taken out of the original story, and there is always a rational explanation for what was magical initially, with one exception: this is the ghosts and they do play a major role. Characterisation is quite good too, as one would expect from Graves, but the plot is truly stunning
La trama es bastante interesante, la prosa muy buena y, sin duda, se hace más ameno que un texto griego original. Sin embargo, a la hora de hacerte empatizar con los personajes (incluso a pesar de que algunos de ellos son realmente geniales) y de hacer los diálogos vívidos Graves fracasa casi totalmente.
Graves' retelling of Jason and the Argonauts that's long-steeped in his White Goddess interpretations of mythology. Entertaining at times, but occasionally awful and awkward. Not as good as Mary Renault's The King Must Die.
One curious note:according to Mary Renault the adventures of Theseus came after the Argonauts but in this book(published earlier) it's vice versa.
For someone whose background in Greek Mythology is pretty much "The Greek Way" by Edith Hamilton(read way back in prep school), Mary Renault's Theseus books plus various movies like "Jason and the Argonauts" the author's detail is kind of intimidating.
Jason the weasel has one more big betrayal to come of course.And now done with this book crammed full of adventure and culture.
Grecia, miti e leggende.. Mi aspettavo qualcosa di super. Invece non mi è piaciuto per niente.Completamente senza partos, senza amina. Non mi ha coinvolta per niente.
I read this book in spanish
I was fairly scathing of Robert Graves's  The Greek Myths  in my review. This one is awkward then, because it displays some of the same flaws whilst also answering my other criticisms in some style. Graves's telling of The Golden Fleece is as dependent upon Margaret Alice Murray's ideas as his later collection of tales - ideas which he would later expound upon himself in  The White Goddess: A Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth , a book which Lawrence Norfolk, in my introduction, suggests may be s
Graves explicitly set out to set this myth in (proto-)historical context and to make it real in a way that the supernatural never can be.
The characters are real and recognisable - which doesn't mean to say sympathetic - Idos is crass, iconoclastic, sarcastic and atheistic, Butes is the arch food-snob, Hercules is a generous but loud and boorish pederast and Jason himself is a sulky, selfish, petulant pretty-boy.The book has much to recommend it then but, even if it is a story and not the dry account that was a feature of The Greek Myths I found that Grave's poetic prose is not exactly to my taste.
Graves does not make that mistake though but puts the concept in the story and makes fun with it.
The Minoan historical and mythological figures are changed or omitted, Theseus of Athens is placed in a different timeframe and position than what he should be at the time of the story and while he should be a member of the crew by all the ancient versions of the text, he is not.
His is a different angle on a story lost in the ages and it is a very enjoyable one!
I should probably read Apollonius of Rhodes original text, as much of Graves story seems to be taken from there.
Hardly that, this story was apparently older than Homer while Apollonius was current with Ashoka and the State of Qin.This was written after Graves discovered the Great Triple Goddess and began writing queer books about her.
Graves uses this story to explain how the Olympians came in with the Acheans; first sharing power and then surplanting the Triple Goddess as the highest religious authority.

Robert graves brings vividly to life heros from ancient greece.
when the finest warriors and explorers ar gathered on a perilous quest to reclaim to the fleece of zeus from the kingdom of colchis, ego's and sword's clash as jason an unworthy captain in view of many of his crew tries to maintain order on the infamous vessel as it transverse's the known world.
robert graves who wrote a volume on greek mythology here relishes fleshing out all the characters of the expedition.
I have read and likes many Robert Graves books.
But this one was too much like a dense book of myths for an academic audience, and not much of a story.
If you approach this as a story, in the sense of a normal historical novel, it leaves a lot to be desired.
Unlike nearly all of Graves' other historical novels, which I have enjoyed.
While it does tell the story, it seems to have a lot of additional material that a novelist would not have put in.
I love Graves' perspective and am going back to revisit his myths and the White Goddess.I was struck by how few scholars these days (or maybe I just don't hang in the right circles) actually read the classics in Greek and Latin.
We do have the modern information that comes from Archeology and aerial photography, but these sources tell what the men of the time (or at least those who wrote about them) in their own words.My greatest complaint is the difficulty in finding a map to follow along.
Apparently Graves had a large government map of the Black Sea while he was writing it.
