https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383022.The_Man_With_the_Golden_Arm
Carpenter's good, but as far as I can tell from just reading one book from each of them, Carpenter owes just about everything he's got to Algren.The Man With the Golden Arm follows Frankie Machine, morphine-addict and sometime card-dealer, on a slow path of dissolution--my favorite kind of path.
Belly upward, the roach's legs plied the alien air, trying dreamily to regain a foothold; while Frankie, leaning dreamily on one elbow, knew just how that felt." A little facile, maybe; we already probably could have guessed that Frankie felt that way.
His ability to paint vivid character portraits is among the best I've ever read.
While I'm not much for the world of literature, it's easy to see why this won the National Book Award in 1950.On the other hand, though, is the story itself.
Goddamn depressing.
Wait, I should use all-caps: IT IS GODDAMNED DEPRESSING.
So combine amazing writing, and a story without a plot, and you get my four stars.
If you are a writer, read it.
If you are not a writer and you like stories with a plot, it's not for you.
I grew up in Chicago in the neighborhood Algren writes about and at the same time he was writing about it ...
after finishing the book and thinking about some of my Polish relatives who either owned taverns or spent a lot of time in taverns I have to reluctantly admit that Algren is portraying a part of Chicago that I was simply too young to know about.Some reviewers have referred to this neighborhood as a slum.
Algren, at the time had little money and this was an inexpensive neighborhood to live in.
The old American myth is that if we work hard and have a properly optimistic attitude, the world is at our fingertips.
Life is good and good for you in God's Country.
This is bullshit.And Nelson Algren, at the height of the McCarthy Era, had the courage to say so.
His are the stories of all the American dreamers who lost out.
While the story drags a bit at time, it's still compelling.
Algren breaks up the storyline with long, poetically gorgeous ruminations about sociology, psychology, and what it is to be down and out in the most prosperous nation on the planet.
The Man with the Golden Arm is an incredible peace of American literature which tells the story of Frankie Machine.
When Frankie arrives home to Chicago from the Second World War he comes back with a Morphine habit which he initially hides from his associates and wife.
Life for Frankie is hard, he dreams of being a drummer but his real skill is in his arm, being a card dealer.
However the contribution Nelson Algren made to the history of literature with this book cannot be ignored.
The excellence of the writing and the quality story cannot be ignored and I would encourage others to read this novel.
A mind-blowing book, set in the tenements and bars of the down-and-out in pre-WWII Chicago.
the main character a junkie card-dealer whose arm is golden because of his steady dealing skills and the lines of scars.
an amazing mixture of idiomatic language capturing the thoughts, ticks, and dreams of the homeless, alcoholics, cripples, bar owners and prostitutes and a pristine, lyrical narrative voice- you are both in the world and looking in into its tragedy.
is this book christian in its negative utopia?-- redemption through utter despair, failure, and heart-wrenching betrayals-- or is it a negative image of a communist ideal?
Part of me did not want to read it for fear of damaging its aging cover by hauling the book to and fro, and part of me was immensely turned off by his other writings.
Algren has a tendency to romanticize too much, to assign higher meanings to low functioning people existing in a sub-prime city.
"The Man...," however, hits on so many universal truths, and does so using such poetical precision that the romanticization of the gritty works.
Algren's writing is truly flawless, from a stylistic standpoint.
Loved the writing. Loved. Did not care for the plot. Bored. Quitting.
There was plenty not to like about this book, but the author really pulled it all together and made a compelling story out of a bunch of characters that were not very relatable at the beginning. The first few chapters seemed to just be “here’s an unlikeable character, but he’s nothing compared to the next guy...”It is a tough story well told.
If I had read it ten years ago, I think I would have thought it was completely incredible, but I've spent a lot of time reading a bunch of Bukowski and listening to a bunch of Tom Waits and the 'hard times' theme is so familiar that it's difficult to fully appreciate that this guy was doing it long before the stuff I've mostly read.
Either way, this is a pretty awesome Chicago novel, and Algren knows how to hit hard with his phrasing.
But you'll catch references from Dillinger 4 songs and I think the Hold Steady too?
Well when I first started reading this I did have that wow moment of damn, I never did quite imagine so clearly what it would be like to actually be one of those putrid crusty drunks leering cock-eyed from a bar stool (I'm thinking of Blind Pig here...) But by the time I ended it I wasn't thinking about social justice or middle class privilege or how proud of myself I was that I had identified with the characters.
Sophie stuck in her wheelchair by the force of her own spite, watching out the window as she waits for Frankie to come home.
This book is a powerful...well, everything.
There is great power in the story, such that you will fall down a dark hole.
I could read a book like this at a rock concert and not hear a note.
The world is so fully realized that, while I was reading, whatever was going on around me disappeared.
Nearly every character in the book is soaked in booze.
When was the last time you heard of anyone going to jail for loitering?
Or cursing?Algren's heart is clearly with his characters, but he doesn't sugarcoat an inch of this book.
I had no idea what a brilliant writer he was.
Not to mention, as a born and raised Chicagoan, 3rd generation Pole, and having lived in Ukrainian Village for a spell, I have a special appreciation for his descriptions of post WWII Chicago and his masterful use of the vernacular.
A brilliant tribute to all the untold stories and unsung lives from my grandparents' generation and on.
Algren's work lies somewhere on the spectrum between Ashcan naturalism of the early 1900s and the hyperrealism of the 1980.
His ability to lend dimension and patronizing-free empathy to the hustlers and con artists of West Side Chicago, while inverting cops from would-be saviors into wretched guilt-ridden philosophers, makes this book a forerunner to works as diverse in genre as the literary nonficiton "In Cold Blood", the songs of Lou Reed & The Velvet Underground, and the television drama "The Wire".
Algren blends midwestern simplicity and sensible storytelling with big city majesty and ambition.
This is a true Chicago work through and through.
Beautifully written, deals with tragic, depressing subject matters in a poetically artistic way. Sad and bleak, was very glad to have finally finished this one just to escape the world it put me in. Will never be able to forget it. Think Selby via Faulkner, with a bit of Dostoyevsky, Hugo, and Tennessee Williams mixed in. Subject matter and conclusion may be too much for many.
I'm ashamed to say I only got halfway through this. It felt so claustrophobic that I threw it to the floor and ran outside in my underwear. To Algren's fans everywhere I offer sincere regrets. I admired what I read but I didn't want to read anymore.
After the Second World War many American veterans came back from the war with a life full of prosperity, but not poor doomed Frankie "Machine" Majcinek, his deck of cards did not hold the American Dream, a dream that's unreachable for far too many, a great lie.
Some passages read like poetry, sometimes Algren's writing verges on purplish, often it features humor and beauty nevermind the setting, and always the undercurrent is sheer rage.
(At times, Algren writes with incredible empathy for women, despite his real-life womanizing and macho interests.) I think the one thing this edition really could've used was an excerpt from Simone de Beauvoir's novel "The Mandarins," which featured a thinly disguised account of her affair with Algren.
De Beauvoir is mentioned so frequently in the essays that accompany this edition, was a powerful and important writer in her own right, and served as a witness to the setting and characters of this novel (at Algren's invitation).
As it had played, off and on, since he had last had eyes." "She remembered the years of their courtship like remembering and alien land.""Years when everything was so well arranged.""There's people in hell want ice water too.""He looked like a man who had never seen a cloud.""'Lies are just a poor man's pennies,' Violet told her.""'You leave me agasted,' Sophie told her, knotting her babushka under her chin with impatience in every fingertip, 'I just don't see how some of you Division Street women live, that's  all .'""A wind began parting them, like a curtain parting upon the opening act of a play staged just for her, to reveal a paper moon pasted stiffly -- for as long as paste might hold -- but one that did not weave with light as the real moon was supposed to do." "The city too seemed a little insane.""She could tell just by the way once familiar doorways had come to look menacing in the morning light, ready to be slammed in the face of anyone who knocked at all.
Essential Chicago reading. Bleak, to be sure, but fair. Why has no one opened a bar called the Tug & Maul?!
Particularly effecting here is the mix of cynicism with vulnerability, making this novel maybe the finest depiction of that human condition in which we're always bleeding and always finding novel ways to stem the blood flow by pretending it doesn't hurt that much, by ridiculing the pain as if we don't feel it at all.My first Algren, I can't wait to read another.
So, either Algren arrived at depicting the naked, suffering human from a purely secular, existentialist angle--logical, it seems to me, as that's pretty much my own philosophical stance and I always fall back on a love of humanity, and particularly useless suffering as our/humanity's most salient characteristic and therefore the greatest beauty of our restlessly self-destructive species--or that he was a Christian beneath his writerly pose.
This book felt like an unsung classic and had a unique fatalistic spirit that I have never encountered before.As with Neon Wilderness the Golden Arm had no heroes, there was a protagonist, Frankie, who was trapped by poverty, hustling, and his heroine addiction.
When the hunted lost they lost for keeps." Algren focused entirely on "the hunted" throughout the book, and although no one was a hero a sympathetic view was opened up for people who are rarely considered subjects for more than a few sentences.
This theme of the book can be summed up by --oddly enough -- a draft horse in this strange little paragraph:The old stallion rolled one white, derisive eye: he saw so many of this aimless order of alley wanderers, forever emerging out of the shadows to feed him stolen restaurant sugar or doughnuts or salt he didn't really want.
Or better yet, read my review of the movie!The Man with the Golden Arm (the movie) is a decent career vehicle for Frank Sinatra, but fails abysmally as a good adaptation of a fantastic book.
Well, you can't even say they "changed" anything with the movie- they just told a completely different story.
The movie is a dumbed-down, completely different take on Frankie Machine and drug addiction.
But it's just a shame this kind of movie can be heralded as a classic alongside the book it is "based upon," the real story of Frankie Machine.
And the novel should have remained the only story of Division Street and Frankie Machine.
I noticed whenever I felt the pace slowing down, that I switched my focus from the character's jazzy verbage to the precise details of light, loneliness, and despair rendered by Algren's all-knowing narrator.
The Bill Savage essay in the 50th Anniversary edition is also really excellent, illuminating a wonderful scene of the Record Head Bednar questioning the long line-up of people in jail.
Bednar struggles and never understands the meaning of the preacher's explanation, that he is human after all, just like the rest of the people he questions, answers, and judges.
This paradox of pondering everybody being human, without understanding exactly how that can be is one of the most interesting questions Algren suggests.
His characters were all too real, a voice (although extreme) lost from society, and yet with an ordinariness that somehow, deep down, there's a uncanny sense that every person is just one step away, albeit a giant one, from some form of madness.
Too many examples of high class financiers, who's world of deceit and thievery, are all too commonplace, destroying lives of ordinary people, while Algren's underclass thieves and addicts are petty and insignificant in the grand scheme of our lives.
Yet who's voice is made real?Algren has a special talent (rather had) of breathing life into characters otherwise dead in society.
It was hard for me to rate this classic.From the start, Nelson Algren's words are inventive, creative, fresh (even almost 50 years later), and memorable.
If I rated books on writing style, this would be a 5 star book.
If everyone has a book inside of him, this was Algren's great creation.
Algren must have been a keen observer and had a sharp ear for the people he writes about.
Truly a "noir" voice.With all this praise, I mainly read fiction for the interesting story and the well-developed characters.
Now that I've finished, I'm not sure the story was worth my time.
Similar to Algren’s A Walk on the Wild Side, Frankie serves more as a centerpiece for Algren to showcase the variety of characters that populate his world, and wax lyrical about their dehumanized existence.
Crucially, Algren pulls off a remarkable balancing act, sympathizing with his characters without glamorizing or making excuses for them, railing against the rigged system that beats people down yet holding them accountable for their own failings.
Also like A Walk On The Wild Side, Algren’s lyrical writing style is both a marvel and a bit of a slog at times, so it takes some patience.
I read A Walk On The Wild Side about a year ago and liked it well enough that I thought I should read more by Algren.
You could pull about 100 pages of storyline from this book and make a pretty good screenplay.
Watch the movie, throw the book in the garbage.
This book highlights the role of what a good editor can and should do.
243 pages of rambling, jumbled, faux poetic words so sophomoric that I would expect any high-schooler to do better.
I fell asleep night after night soon after reading 10 boring pages.
I find very few books like this, but I'm marking this one: FAIL.
This book seems like a natural for me, I'm surprised I did not get to it sooner, but it never grabbed me.For one, I thought the drug use would be a major emphasis of the book.
It was a larger factor in the second half, but in the first half the drug theme only made sporadic appearances.
After finishing the book I found out why - the original draft of this novel didn't involve drugs at all but Algren added it later after his publisher said the book needed another dimension.I don't mind a dose of heavily colloquialized dialogue but it eventually just got tiring.
