https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9570.Another_Roadside_Attraction
Το βιβλίο αυτό γράφτηκε κατά κάποιο μαγικό και απερίγραπτο τρόπο για φιλελεύθερους στοχαστές, που απολαμβάνουν λογοτεχνικές παραπομπές, κοινωνικές και πολιτιστικές παραλλαγές, πολιτική ιστορία, μεταξύ αναφορών σε πλήθος πληροφοριών που ποτέ δεν πιστεύατε πως θα είχατε πάρει, με βασικό σημείο αναφοράς τη θρησκεία.
Διαβάζοντας όλο και περισσότερα απο τα έργα του συνειδητοποιώ διαισθητικά και εμπειρικά πως είναι ένας σαμουράι της πεζογραφίας.
Τα εξωγήινα υπερόπλα της πένας του είναι οι παρομοιώσεις και οι μεταφορές που γίνονται τατουάζ στο δέρμα του νου και απαγορεύουν τις άτεχνες παλινδρομήσεις.
Όλοι μια παρέα, μαζί τους επίσης, ένας μπαμπουίνος που παίζει με τον Θορ, το παιδί της τσιγγάνας,του οποίου γεννήτορες είναι η αστραπή και ο κεραυνός.
I enjoyed parts of this book and it did refrain from long tangents unlike many Tom Robbins books, but there was just too much silliness. Because of the content, I was hoping for a ridiculously cool ending and, because I am an atheist, I felt sort of let down.
Tom Robbins writes one sentence at a time. I read that in an interview once. He has a general outline or story arc for his books but he starts out by writing the first sentence, and then perfecting it. Once he is totally satisfied, he moves on to the second sentence and then perfects that one... and so on. I'm not sure if it's 100% true but reading his work certainly makes me believe it.Another Roadside Attraction has always been in my top 5 of all time. Is there a way to mark that? Guess not. Oh well.
"There are three mental states that interest me. These are: one, amnesia; two, euphoria; three, ecstasy. Amnesia is not knowing who one is and wanting desperately to find out. Euphoria is not knowing who one is and not caring. Ecstasy is knowing exactly who one is - and still not caring."
τι να εξηγώ και τι να ομολογήσω, για αυτόν τον Μικρό θεούλη. Οτι και να πω θα μοιάζει υπερβολή, αρα του δίνεις 5 αστέρια κι αφήνεις τον επόμενο, αν και εφόσον υπάρξει, να εξηγήσει τα ανεξήγητα Θαύματα
I confess a little disappointment with Another Roadside Attraction, but the depth and range of ideas explored in the book is amazing.I loved the ludicrous metaphors, the freewheeling insanity of language, the satirical humour and the intelligently argued discourses on the death of religion.On a craft level, I felt the plot could have used a huge pair of scissors, and many of the characters suffered from having the same voice, or the same habit of launching into erudite philsophical treatises for no reason.So with a little strimming this could have been a classic.
It certainly packs a mean wallop and sits pretty on the bookshelves of athiests and agnostics alike.
And it took about 100 pages to get into the book, but then it sucks you in and takes you on a wild ride.It’s a hard one to summarize, but I’ll give it the old college try.
A newly-married couple, John Paul Ziller and Amanda, decide to open up a hot dog and juice stand on the side of a road.
When these characters meet up together, a lot of crazy stuff happens.This one is really good - be patient when you begin the story and let is carry you through to the end.5 Stars.
I wasn't a fan of this one. I love Tom Robbins' writing, but I can't stand Amanda, who Robbins idolizes. I just wanted to tell her that condoms are cheap and easily accessible.
I really liked this book, and wanted to give it four, but I just couldn't do it.For you see, I have discovered something terrible: Tom Robbins has almost no re-read value.Seriously.
While reading his books for the first time can be an eye-opening, hyper-enjoyable experience, trying to go through them a second time proves taxing, irritating, and slow-going.
And that is just sad.Because the book really is incredible.
In fact, ALL of Robbins books are amazing.
The man really does have a gift.
But that gift is a one term president.It just doesnt have what it takes to be re-elected.
They are joined by Marx Marvelous, a self-proclaimed scientist who believes that Christianity is drawing to a close.
And about that mysterious Corpse that shows up at one point....Written in 1971, aspects of this novel seem awfully dated (drug & counter-culture references abound - plenty of sex, too!), but the underlying philosophy is still valid - faith vs science -- and do they have to be versus one another?
Many clever turns of phrase as well.Recommended to those who are interested in discussions of faith & science & can handle a couple of steamy love scenes.
I could probably not tell you what it was about even if I were on the strongest of hallucinogenic drugs that it probably took to write this book.
This book follows a reckless, sexually loose girl named Amanda and her husband, as they open a roadside stand and meet many eccentric characters along the way as they discover many of life’s lessons.
Don’t be fooled, this book is not as quirky or holistic as it sounds.
But please, for the sake of making good use of your life, don’t waste your time reading this book.
Seriously, if you want a spiritual revelation, go to a temple or something, just don’t read this book.
This book taught me that he is indeed the literary guru that he and all the coffeehouse cave-dwellers who can't pry their cigs away from their rot stained teeth long enough to save their lives...
Since I was reading it for my book group I clamped onto the rope of the story line while it dragged me through all of its manipulations and this intimacy made me realize that I actually liked it-the story.
But I will leave anyone brave enough to have read this far with the hybrid word I developed to describe my Tom Robbins experience: VERBASIVE.
The best word for this book is choppy.
But I feel like I'm being to harsh on this book.
One of the best gauges I have for a book is how engrossing it is when I'm on train.
If I forget I'm standing on a packed train and am even surprised when I get to my stop, then there is no denying that I'm completely entranced in a book.
I'm perhaps more of a destination reader, so it's not particularly my taste, but if you read for poetics over plot, then this book is brilliant.
Tom Robbins inanılmaz merak ettiğim bir yazardı. Yazdığı ilk kitapla başlayayım dedim ama hayal kırıklığına uğradım. Başlarda ilgi çekici gitse de ilerledikçe sıkılmaya başladım. Çoğu yerde kitaptan koptum bu yüzden ne okuduğumu doğru düzgün anlayadım. Yinede kitapta beğendiğim kısımlar oldu. Öncelikle esprilere deli gibi güldüm. Bana aşırı komik geldiler. Ayrıca yasaları, hayvan haklarını ve birçok konuyu eleştirmiş yazar. Bunlar kurgunun içinde sırıtıyordu ama hoşuma gitti. Yazarın diğer kitaplarını okumak istiyorum. Umarım onlar daha sağlam bir kurguya sahiptir.
I think there are probably a lot of men who will love this still.
this book made me want to make all kinds of meals with mushrooms... no, not the hallucinogenic kind silly
If you've read any Tom Robbins novel then you'll not be surprised the answer is a lot.
This is Robbins' first novel, which I somehow managed to miss along my own journey.
There is definitely a counterculture feel, but Robbins has always been good about not forcing a side to be taken but rather laying it all bare, without judgment.
Not in a tone of condemnation but rather opening us to the fact that there may be other possibilities.
The possibility of change.
This book is all about fun writing and fun reading.
If you're not laughing while reading this book then you've missed something.
The narrator is a fictional writer oscillating between third person objectivity and the confiding first person plural of “we.” The narrative shifts between past and present scenes, interspersed with biographical notes, journal excerpts, reconstructed conversations, unspoken thoughts, emotions of the characters, and even the occasional editorial.
It's just that some people require more understanding.” (p.10) Contemplating Ziller's drumming, Amanda concludes:  “The drummer deals almost exclusively with rhythm, therefore he is an architect of energy.
Robbins drops hints of Plucky's future situation with intriguing references throughout the book about “The Corpse.”This was a difficult book for me.
Like his character, Amanda, Robbins  “float[s] above the predictable.” (p.208) Hardly a page goes by without not just a quotable line but entire passages.
Robbins is a mad genius.
All of his books are uniquely his; there isn't another author out there mad enough or genius enough to even try to emulate his voice.
I read this many years ago.
Most of the details have faded, but he central plot remains clear: some friends discover the body of Christ, thereby disproving the resurrection and making pretty much all of Christianity a lie.
Soon they're pursued by Vatican hitmen, who have to retrieve the body to save the family business.
No one but Robbins could seamlessly morph the Roman Catholic church into the Mafia...
The story of how a gypsy princess, a free-spirited giant with a bone through his nose, a drug dealer, and a baboon come to possess the mummified body of Jesus Christ at their small roadside hot dog stand and zoo is nothing short of brilliant.
Like other Robbins novels, the storyline often derails into monologues, flashbacks, and especially fables or twisted fairy tales.
It's always astonishing how close he can come to skirting dated 60's rhetoric without losing his edginess.
Warmth and humor abound, and it's a great pleasure simply to watch how Robbins performs miracles with words.
Özellikle okurla içli dışlı anlatımı değişik ve güzel, sanırım Tom Robbins'in diğer kitaplarını da okuyacağım.
„Co je posláním umělce?“ chtěla Amanda slyšet od talentovaného nezvaného návštěvníka. „Posláním umělce,“ odvětil Navaho, „je poskytnout druhým to, co jim neposkytuje život.“A to pro mě dělá pan Robbins. Poskytuje mi hravost, nevázanost, zvláštní pohled na věci, jevy, jednání lidí, jednoduché situace popisuje tak krásně, že se u nich čtenář zastaví, aby si ten jeho jazyk užil, a přitom, jakmile se do knihy začtete, je to prostě jízda.Jen grafické provedení českého vydání knihy mi dělalo problémy, ale za to pan Robbins nemůže.
The answer to butterflies, the keys to love, secret societies and hot dog stands and impromptu zoos and love children and the freedom to simply exist as a human being, comfortable in your own skin just seeps from between the pages of this book.My coverless, Scotch-Taped together,coffee-stained and torn paperback addition sits on my bedside table and gives me permission to go barefoot, to sit crosslegged on my front lawn and have political debates with my Shiatsu, to climb my cherry tree and drop love notes on strangers walking by.
It is obvious that this is Robbins' first book if you have already read his later efforts.
It looked like Edgar Allen Poe's pajamas outside." Sometimes the characters don't talk like the characters would, which he does explain away within the context of the novel, but until I reread the novel I'm assuming he took the easy and efficient way out of concentrating more on internal style than the substance he wanted to convey.All in all, it's a lot of fun.
I don't know if I would suggest it to someone as their first Robbins' book, but I wouldn't warn them against it.4.5/5
...Probably something involving the law, but in the mind of Tom Robbins this unlikely combination arrives to unleash a Catholicism-crippling truth.Robbins' first novel is less obscure than his later ones; you won't find barely recognizable metaphors in Another Roadside Attraction, but the drawn-out speeches on religion, truth, and humanity are front and center throughout.
The book would be a smoother read without the narrative switch; of course, when did Tom Robbins ever opt for smooth?It's well worth reading in order to learn a little bit about Robbins' style, which hasn't changed significantly since Another Roadside Attraction was published in the '70s, but if you're looking for sheer entertainment, take Even Cowgirls Get the Blues on out of your bookshelf, podner, because this one just ain't it.

This was my first of many Tom Robbins books.
I read it for the first time when I was probably 16 and it completely opened me up to entirely new ways of thinking and over the years I would definitely say Robbins has had a significant influence on my general perspective.
The way that he entertains and (perhaps subliminally) teaches while making you uncomfortable at times while extracting intense emotions at others is truly unique and remarkable.
I read this years ago when it first came out, but I guess I was too stoned to follow the plot.
It's not an easy read.
Now I find it delightful, if a little off the mark - if you're looking for a period piece, this ain't quite it, though I think it was billed as such.
It is a joyful romp with language, something I'm looking for more and more in the books I read.
Many of today's books are dumbed down so stoners can follow - thank goodness Tom Robbins wasn't writing for them!
Loved it.
I would put this as my third favorite TR books, the first being Jitterbug and the second Fierce Invalids.
I just loved the Amanda character.
Sometimes I have trouble getting into the heads of his female protagonists, and even though she was so "out there," I feel I really got to know and respect Amanda through her conversations and random musings.
I didn't fully understand Ziller, but that was less important to me and I think that was part of the point - that his character remains esoteric.
And though I felt the ending was bittersweet, it all came full circle and made sense.
Robbins is one of those writers I probably should have read in college, when my English Lit friends were raving about him.
I probably would have liked him more then, but my tastes have changed.
Neo-mystical hoo-ha doesn't charm me like it once did.
I also find his portrayal of Amanda disturbing.
The male characters seem to worship her as a mother Earth goddess figure, but on closer inspection they only thing they care about is getting the chance to bang her.
She's merely a highly objectified dingbat, and not some admirable free-spirited heroine.
