https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2808828-a-new-name
An utterly unbelievable plot line from the beginning, but somehow it works anyway. The spiritual and character growth are truly moving.
Grace Livingston Hill in her new book, “A New Name” Book One in the Love Endures series published by Barbour Publishing, Inc. takes us into the life of Murray Van Rensselaer.From the back cover: “It was impressed on him with letters of fire, written with a pen of iron in his soul…he was a murderer.”Born into a wealthy family with a respected name , a new identity had never been what Murray Van Rensselaer needed.
But as the kindness and faith of those around him begin to convict his heart, will Murray dare to reveal his life of lies–and face whatever consequences await him back home?When Grace Livingston Hill’s first husband died he left her with two young daughters to raise.
I read this book a *long* time ago, but didn't realize it until I was about a third of the way through. (The new cover seems completely unrelated to the story.) I love GLH's stories, but this one seems incredibly far-fetched. It works as a "modern-day" retelling of the prodigal son (set in the 20s).
I did not remember reading this book when my book club chose this book. As I began to read I could not remember how it ended. A young man is in a car accident. The wealthy man is now on the run from the law. The kindness of the town people where he hides out begin to convict his heart. You think at any moment he is going to get caught. The book keeps on on edge!
This is a book that I read in college many years ago. It was fun to reread but did not have the excitement that modern Christian stories have.
This was a nice easy fun summer read. It had some likable characters and a plot twist that I wasn't expecting. This book showed how God can change your character if you let Him.
Incredibly slow. I knew what was happening the whole time. I don't think there was a single plot item that I couldn't see coming. Yet for some reason I still liked it. It was kind of sweet I guess.
This is a story of finding your place and forgiveness.
A quick read. Somewhat sentimental, but the growth of spiritual understanding and the repentance & new-found faith which the author describe ring true. There's also lots more lovely stuff about cosy, loving homes and good, simple food, as per usual in a GLH novel. Just the thing for a tired mind which requires a little rest and sanity.
