https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11302021-the-shootist
I was really taken with this outstanding novel and this great character: a portrait of a dying man who must figure out the best way to make his last stand in life.
Not only is he forced to look back on his life and decide if it was truly worth anything, but he also has to deal with the town's sudden interest in his imminent death, interest both curious and nefarious, but everyone looking to profit one way or another.A great theme that is prevalent throughout the book is the changing times.
And the aging gunman is part of those dying times.
Decades ago, I saw the John Wayne movie of the same name & really liked it, so thought the audio book would be decent.
If you saw the movie, know that you saw a cleaned up, pale Hollywood version.
The book takes place just after Queen Victoria dies & Books rides into town for his final time & buys a newspaper.
He spends his final days thoroughly reading the paper, every ad & article.
Very few are truly decent, though.I'm getting into spoiler territory & it's a journey best taken without too many expectations.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Being one of the deadliest shootists of the old west, Books succeeded in outliving most, if not all, of the other notorious gunslingers.
Upon examination from an old doctor acquaintance that had previously removed a slug from his stomach, Books discovers that his days are numbered and it is nothing that the quick draw of his Remingtons will be able to match.
Books knows he is headed for a showdown with Death himself, but he decides even though he knows it will be a losing battle, he will be going out on his own terms and with guns blazing.
It's also an outline that leads you to a different destination than the story in the novel will.This is another book where I find myself hesitant to say things such as "I like it", or "I enjoyed it" as it is a dark and even sad story with few bright corners.
The lessons he learns from his contact with Books and the final pages of the novel differ totally from the end of the movie.Gillom is not a likeable youth nor are a lot of other people in this story.
(hide spoiler)]I would recommend both the movie and the book, but they're different stories.
Dear me, is this book so bleak and depressing yet at the same time weirdly comforting . . . No, comfort is the wrong word, but I can't find another right now. The courage and determination of the protagonist in the face of hopelessness and cynicism is maybe what confers on it that small upbeat dying note and makes it an excellent read.
I'm afraid the Don Siegel John Wayne movie colored my enjoyment of this a bit as well. It's superbly written, but awfully cynical compared to the uplifting movie. Books is the same man as the Duke portrays, but Gillom is extremely different - I didn't care for him at all in the novel version, and the ending bleeds a star off my rating.
But much like his chaotic and unpredictable life up to this point, things will not end quietly.
That at the end of his life when he's weakened and the people he's harmed see a chance to harm or exploit him, the jump at the chance.
The second moral could be that Books has come to realise through his illness that the end is near and wants to set certain things right, such as setting the son of the boarding house woman on the right path, therefore he is indeed deserving of our pity.
The western classic by Glendon Swarthout. I enjoyed this book, and I liked the film version starring John Wayne. Wayne insisted on changing the ending in the movie, and I think I liked it better than the ending of the novel.
Yes, it's a western and some people will dismiss it, for that.
Yes.But it's the story of a man whose time is passing as his era is passing.
His coming to terms with who he is, what he is, and finally...
that he can do something good, finally, with his death.John Wayne played this character in the movie version.
It was Wayne's final role, to play the aging gunfighter dying of cancer, while Wayne was dying of cancer.
(they even had to pause production, to allow him time to recover from illness during filming)Certainly, the book is grimmer, darker, and far more brutal than the film.
Swarthout, who died in 1992 at age 74, had a special talent for writing the kind of western novel that told its story by getting deeply into the heads of its characters.
The central character of The Shootist is one John Bernard Books, a nineteenth-century gunfighter with a fierce reputation as a sure-shot with a quick hand.
And when the doctor tells him that the pain is being caused by the prostate cancer that is killing him, Books knows that he will die in El Paso – and soon.
The Shootist won the Spur Award for Best Western Novel of 1975, and it is very easy to see why.
Whoa how have I never read this? I couldn't put it down. Books is a great character.
Poslednji dani matorog revolveraša.
Es cierto el cliché: Si vas a leer un libro de western, que sea este.Una historia triste, una leyenda en su ocaso, una prosa hermosa.
Love the idea behind the book, even if the plot line is painfully predictable and prone to cliche.
Criticisms aside, the book unfolds nicely, with a more measured look at the era of gunfighters than some of the pulp novels available in the genre.
His last several weeks of life and his growing infirmity are authentically captured by Mr. Swarthout and made for a good read.
This was right at 3.5 stars and I had to round down for the simplistic nature of the plot line and limited character development.
Still one of the better Westerns I've read though.
As Books looks forward to his death, he discovers how empty a life he has led and when boiled down, what is most valuable to leave behind once you have departed.This book is wonderful!
I have had high times.
But the best times of all were afterward, with the gun warm in my hand, the bite of smoke in my nose, the taste of death on my tongue, my heart high in my gullet, the danger past, and then the sweat, suddenly, and the nothingness, and the sweet clean feel of being born.
Pretty damn decent. I'm not the biggest Western fan, but this does make me want to revisit my old RDD save file.
JB Books--a notorious "shootist"--rides into El Paso one day to meet with an old doctor who once saved his life.
Though Books does take a liking to Bond Rogers, his female landlord, and her son, Gillom, the real emotional connection and relationship occurs between Books and Gillom.
It's real-life, and while I don't generally like that in most westerns, because I'm always expecting the hero to shoot his way through the villains and emerge victorious, here, Swarthout provides us some wonderful description of gun-play, and though the novel isn't violent throughout, when the shooting starts, it's extremely well developed and described.
John Bernard Books is one of the last great shootists of the old west.
There will come a day in which Books is unable to get out of bed.
There will come a day in which painkillers no longer work.Books is stunned by the news.
And some want to enhance their reputation by killing him.As Books continues to deteriorate, he decides he won't allow himself to reach the stage in which he cannot take care of himself.
He decides to die with dignity, as a shootist should.When I started listening to the audio version of this novel, I was not sure I would enjoy it all that much.
Mr. Swarthout transports the reader to 1901 El Paso, and all the telltales of modernity imposing itself upon the West frames his story about a gunfighter who is himself an anachronism, and the last of his breed.
The reader shares J.
The author effectively conveys the pain and debilitating symptoms not just of the cancer, but the graphic description was equally effective in the epic gunfight at the end.
John Wayne's film is outstanding and largely stays true to the novel, but you don't know what you are missing until you read this excellent novel.
I'd been thinking of the John Wayne film based on this novel and decided to read it.
At least my memory of it.This was a quick, easy, one-day read, and I'm very happy I spent today in El Paso.Curiously, though, out of the blue of the western sky pops "yclept": "The streetcar turned the corner a block away and, like a small boat upon a lazy river, glided in dignity toward him, drawn by a somnolent mule yclept Mandy by all El Pasoans."Perhaps this is a word commonly used in 1901 El Paso, but its use pulled me out of the book...is this a typo?
This story probes the mind of a dying man.
In this case, the man in question is a notorious gunman who has discovered he has reached the final stages of a fatal disease.
Thought-provoking and dark, the book is well-written and suspenseful, with finely drawn characters.
More detailed than the 1976 film, the story depicts the character and the inner workings of the western killer, fleshing him out and giving him a heart and soul.
Other than the ending, which was much harsher and colder than what was portrayed in the film, I enjoyed the book very much.
For every 50 westerns I read, most are suffered through. They aren't very good. It's like romance novels for bros. A few are good, and maybe one is truly great. This is one of the truly great ones. It's maybe one of the best five every written. Soooo good.
This is an outstanding novel about true courage.
A unique Western, but one that really didn't grab me. Three stars and a potential place on my "Maybe I Should Reread This Book" list.
4.5 First a summary; this story follows J.B. Books, a legendary gunfighter who finds himself going to El Paso to seek out a doctor that once saved his life.
He finds himself at 51 rapidly declining in health and at the mercy of his landlady who does not approve of him and his wold ways.We are taken into a contemplative raw and realistic journey of what it means to reach the end of your life and have little but reputation to show for it.
I was incredibly drawn to Books' decline and how he still manages to hold on to his dignity until he's basically screaming in pain.
Like all great Westerns, this book is essentially about masculinity.
The later setting and J.B.'s imminent death from disease means this book departs from the stock Western novel and helps elevate it, along with the writing, to the realm of the excellent.
J.B.'s relationship with the woman who runs the boarding house he is set to die in and especially his relationship with her son, who is in awe of J.B., also make this book something special.
A must read for any fan of the Western and a highly recommended for any fan of good story telling.
I had given Homesman a 5 rating and was expecting this book would be the same.
I think that lends credibility to the story effect, especially given the time.
How he deals with his remaining days and the impact he has on the people around him is the basis of the story.What held my rating back some was the amount of effort he put into describing the impact of bullets on the body and his handling of the young man in the story.Like Homesman, though, you feel the characters and events.
When I was a kid I watched the John Wayne movie a few times on broadcast TV, and I never knew it was based on a book until I came across a copy at a used book sale earlier this year.
The introduction mentions that Wayne steered the movie's end away from the book toward something a little more crowd-pleasing, and I have to say I agree with his choice.
Still the book is a satisfying read if a little awkwardly written in places.p.s., I see the movie streams on Amazon Prime.

