https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78674.Out_to_Canaan
The small town of Mitford has a few things going on. A development company wants to buy up property for a spa . The house on the hill.There is going to be a mayor elected, with signs all over the community. What will Father Tim do when his favorite bakery may close, due to retirement. Father Tim is also thinking about retirement. Maybe he should wait a year.So goes the town and it's sentimential ways.
After the melodramatic-ish second book and the deep darkness of the third one, this installment, while the conflict exists and is real and worrisome, is so much lighter.
I didn’t own this one til recently and thus was unable to read it as often as some of the others, but that made this reread all the more sweet.
Dooley and Lace get their first real interactions in this book, which made me so happy.
Father Tim and Cynthia’s marital bliss makes me so happy.
They’re not perfect newlyweds anymore, but they have a sweetness to their relationship that I love.
Her characters are so real I feel like I know them, like I live in Mitford.
He hadn't meant to say that at all!" (page 51) He ruined a romantic moment with unintended humor, just one example of his bumbling ways.In Out to Canaan it seems like everything that can go wrong in a small town is going wrong in Mitford, and the general peace of Mitford is disturbed.
Good old Father Tim plays detective in many aspects of his life and calling, all the while praying the prayer that cannot fail: "Your will be done."How can someone not love the character-driven Mitford books?
Heartwarming, Encouraging & Refreshing! An Uplifting Read! I Loved It!
The fact that I have now read four books in the saga of Mitford and Father Tim Kavanagh is testament to the fact that I love these books.
Father Tim is one of my all time favorite characters in literature.
In this episode Father Tim is rapidly approaching retirement and he struggles to tie up some rather frustrating loose ends before he leaves his post.
One of my favorite elements in the Mitford books are the quotes used by Father Tim to illustrate a concept or principle of faith.
It's a syrupy sweet old fashioned read which does not demand anything of the reader.
Many find the series feel good, and there are some sparkles of true conflict here and there, but mostly it's about the mundane daily plight of a vicar who finds love later in life and saves people - emotionally and physically.
I read this book, and the entire series, quite a while ago; but I recently started listening to them on audio. I'd forgotten how wonderfully written they are, with wit and humor sprinkled throughout. They're also so calming to listen to when you need to just "chill." Enjoy.
You see things you had forgotten, e.g. I didn't remember how angry Father Tim got in one trying episode.
But. It's really the culture of Mitford, the dynamics of Father Tim and Cynthia's household, the quotes from living authors, and the growth in characters that compel.
Karon's phrases like a virtual cantata of moaning and groaning.~ For fun ~Me: I love this book!You: Carol, what *don't* you love?Me: The illustrations at the beginning of the chapters; the outdated diabetes advice; when a dear character dies.~ For the laugh ~A husband of a devoted reader complained that there was no sex in these books.
This Mitford series becomes more touching, fun and readable as I go along.
This book wouldn't mean much to someone who hasn't read the earlier ones, but it's quite good otherwise.
Two big story lines are included - Esther's competition for mayor and the selling of Fernbank.
Who would try to sell a property like that without getting an impartial appraisal?
The honest emotions of the event touched me, which is something I enjoy about these books - the simple, honest emotions of sadness and joy, rarely overwhelming but tender and real.What happens in this one: (view spoiler)[Father Tim's retirement is announced.
Esther gets competition for mayor.
(hide spoiler)]NB-I usually read these, but the audio-books are great,too.
05.2011 Number four, continuing on. I just can't say how much I love these books. Simplicity. Love. Heartache. Stress. Worry. Blessings of God in the midst of everything. If you haven't read this series, you should! 06.2013 Loved it all over again. Now I have to get my hands on the next one.... ;)
What a wholesome series! Favorite lines:1. "He who is not impatient is not in love" (29).2. "Perhaps almost anyone could love . . . it was the loving back that seemed to count for everything" (32).
Not only are the happenings in Mitford entertaining and endearing (I laughed out loud plenty of times), there are also some very wise, thoughtful personal reflections as well as dialogue that points to redemption for those who think they are too far gone, hope for almost hopeless situations, and a beautiful example of hospitality and sacrificial love shown through Father Tim and his wife.
It brought up good things to ponder, as the other novels have as well, and made me long for more opportunities to show love and hospitality in our future home -- but also realizing there are plenty of opportunities now in our small apartment as well.
consistently meaningful series!
Absolutely delightful fourth book of the series, and even a little mystery thrown in. Great reda, great series!
Delightful.
I think this is my favorite in the series so far. I love Father Tim and his perspective on small town life. I'm looking forward to the next one.
I have been away from Mitford for two years and I don't know why, because I love the town and the people that occupy it. Everyone seems to be progressing very well and I will stop back for another visit very soon.
Always nice to spend some time in Mitford. While there is not much of a plot to move these books forward, each feels like time well-spent with family and friends. I especially enjoyed reading about a snow-filled Christmas Eve as I was lounging at home on Christmas Eve with snow outside my window!
# 4 in the "Father Tim" "Mitford" series; I had previously read this in book format; This one is on audio.It's once again time for Cynthia's annual tea party and the dreaded armoire has to be moved.
Longtime Mitford residents Joe Ivy, the barber and his sister Winnie who owns the bakery are planning on moving to Tennessee, causing heartache for Father Tim. Hal Owen hires an assistant for his vet business.
Harley is sick and moves into the rectory spare room to be cared for by Lace Turner, Father Tim and Cynthia.
Mitford series #4.
So far I have loved every book in the series.
Out to Canaan covers the final year before Father Tim's retirement.
The writing is superb, the characters are indelibly etched in the reader's mind, and there is never a dull moment in Mitford.
this book involves the reader in many different aspects.
Out to Canaan is special because Dooley Barlowe has a more active role in the story.
I enjoy Cynthia's role also, and particularly love hearing that she and Father Tim have prayed 'the prayer that cannot fail'.
You'll just have to read the book to find out what it is.
I am re-reading this series and find the books to be as soothing, entertaining, and inspirational as they were the first time around. Sometimes you need a story that is like a warm blanket, and this series is perfect for those times, especially the first four books. Out to Canaan has some particularly tender and happy moments.
Love this series of books, and this one really had me wanting to know the outcome ... even though I've read them before, it was over 10 years ago, so I've forgotten. This one dealt with facing life changes, and was very encouraging to me, as that's where I am in life as well.
"If there were a tax on joy...he'd be broke." So much to love about this one!
This is a "feel good" book. Enjoyed listening to it at the end of my day ride homw.
This is my favorite Mitford book so far. Lots of ups and downs, but this is an example of how God can save, and soften even the hardest heart. Wow!
Number Four. Not tired of these yet.
I loved this book. Her characters are so believable, so real.
ANY PERSONAL NOTATIONS ARE FOR MY RECOLLECTION ONLY**# 4 in the "Father Tim" "Mitford" series; (view spoiler)[It's once again time for Cynthia's annual tea party and the dreaded armoire has to be moved.
Longtime Mitford residents Joe Ivy, the barber and his sister Winnie who owns the bakery are planning on moving to Tennessee, causing heartache for Father Tim. Hal Owen hires an assistant for his vet business.
The honest emotions of the event touched me, which is something I enjoy about these books - the simple, honest emotions of sadness and joy, rarely overwhelming but tender and real.What happens in this one: (view spoiler)[[Father Tim's retirement is announced.
We have definitely fallen in love with another series.
Seems we have been introduced to many new friends in this wonderful little village.
Once again we are absolutely delighted by "The Mitford Years" series by Jan Karon as we enjoyed every moment of "Out To Canaan".
Mitford would be a wonderful place to escape to as we face the challenges of our everyday life.
Mitford seems like a perfect place to be even when dealing with difficulty and we can't wait to return.
