https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1274756.The_Lively_Lady
A great swashbuckling adventure of privateers during the War of 1812. Hard to put down. Best read while you are looking out over the Maine coast.
You will have a more realistic view of the real life multi-dimensional people that history has unfortunately turned into one-dimensional characters after reading Roberts' books.
First published in 1931, I first read and enjoyed Lively Lady in 1946 or so at the age of 9 or 10 along with other historical novels by Pulitzer Prize winning author Kenneth Roberts.
As a boy I enjoyed this book as a seafaring tale of the War of 1812.
As an adult I can also appreciate its historical accuracy in its depiction of privateering and of the treatment of captured American seamen at the infamous Dartmoor prison.
Shortland depicted in the novel was indeed the superintendent and ordered the horrific massacre of prisoners as described in the book.
An under rated book from a largely forgotten author.
The reader is strongly advised to read Lydia Baileyfirst.
The book while predictable is an utter delight to read.
The hero of the book is more likable than other Roberts works.
In Roberts other works the star is usually the heroes best friend Cap Huff, Sgt McNott, Tom Buell or King Dick.King Dick does appear in this book and is heroic.
Apparently, the author liked the character enough to fully develop another novel around, Lydia Bailey.
The book has plenty of action and adventure with Roberts blend of historical detail and historical cameos.
Read way back in the day. The book must have been lying around the house in Kittery. When I was in Devon we stuck to the coast but I saw the moors/highlands from the train window on the way back to London from Plymouth. That's where Dartmoor Prison was, an important location in the book. Much of the rest refers to the Southern Maine coast. Date read is a guess.
Follows The Lively Lady's New England captain through his fighting in the War of 1812 and his subsequent imprisonment. Some people bestowed with power are responsible and kind while others are monsters. I'm a sucker for a sailor.
I'm glad my friend Scott Dow pointed out he Dickensian features of Robert's descriptions. It allowed me to fully enjoy this novel. The seas scenes are great. Rich characters and dialogue. The first novel I've ever read where someone actually says "La!".
This is the fastest moving, quickest reading of all Kenneth Roberts' novels.
