https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262966.Final_Blackout
He published over a hundred novels and short stories during the pulp years, under a variety of pseudonyms.Final Blackout began as a three-part serial in the April 1940 edition of Astounding Science Fiction (it was later published as a hardback in 1948).
The blitzkrieg was still over the horizon and a lot of people assumed another global war would resemble the last one.Blackout begins with the remains of the Fourth Brigade of the British Expeditionary Force trying to outmaneuver a detachment of Russian soldiers.
Because of biological weapons, no British soldier has been allowed to return to England in years.The focus of the novel is on the lieutenant.
A good idea finely executed. Largely overlooked. Check this book out for sure.
But I've enjoyed a lot of other books by this author and thought I'd try this one too.
This particular group of soldiers are English and have basically been kicked out of England.
I enjoyed his motley crew of men who are charming in their own way, especially because of their willingness to protect him.
The Lieutenant does succeed in taking back England and in setting it back up as a safe, productive country.
I would've liked it to end differently but I can think with why the author did it that way, a bit....
The concepts contained in this book are what make it above-average.
The very existence of future historians suggests so, but the story is in no way a happy fable, and the isolationist United States is far from being the land of good guys in this grim tale.The writing was good for 1940s pulp, but may seem a bit forced to modern readers, and that's okay.
This book was a rough attempt at the kind of thing George Orwell wrote, and is a credible attempt that is a quick read.

This groundbreaking futuristic military thriller was ahead of its time when it was originally published in the early 1940s. It remains a taut and suspenseful classic, something of a morality tale, and a classic in its own right. The book has been reprinted many times, and there is a new edition available from Galaxy Press. Highly recommended for fans of both Golden Age science Fiction and futuristic tales, this one is a real page turner.
I read this book at least 3 times when I was a kid at my local library. Definitely a captivating story! As other reviewers have mentioned, it has some very interesting ideas in it.
Others have already synopsized the storyline but there are other aspects of the story that are quite timeless.Story and Plot:Considering the fact the author wrote this before World War II suggests an uncanny attempt to ask what would happen if World War I never ended and just ground on for generations.
It was an attempt to see what happens to men and women when the horrors of war become a way of life; the only way to live is through strategy rather than being out-gunned.
The end of the tale takes place in England.
I'm not a fan of books about war.
I get bored just thinking about war books.
It's a real pickle of a situation to be in.If I understand the timeline, Hubbard wrote a magazine version of this book in 1939, before he fought in WWII.
The book is set in a post World War apocalyptic future where nuclear warfare and a plague called "soldier's sickness" has wiped out most of humanity.
I was impressed that Hubbard was able to create such a story line before WWII even broke out and before atomic warfar was ever used.
L. Ron Hubbard's take on World War II works on the level of a child's nightmare: hauntingly terrifying despite it's simplistic interpretation of the world.
He captures the fear of a generation who just ended one major war and have already moved into a second.
A young man at the time, he admits in an excellent preface that his views have evolved and matured.Much has been written about his unnamed Lieutenant.
I cannot add anything but this observation: the Lieutenant deserves to be recognized as a member of a small group of symbolic heroes who's personal failure allowed for societal growth and change.
I felt that being a sort of a fan of science fiction I needed to read at least something from Hubbard, who after all was one of the major figures of the Golden Age. However, every time I picked up the book I was put off by the writing and got distracted by something else.After finishing Bare-faced Messiah recently I decided finally to power through this book, which is fortunately quite short.
It is not great literature, even though Algis Budrys in his foreword compares it to Orwell's 1984 (and reiterates the myth of Hubbard as explorer and war hero).
I'm re-reading this classic, one of the first true dystopian alternate history novels by a well-known author. It tells the story of what Europe might have been like by the 1930's, had the U.S. remained neutral in the first World War and that stalemated conflict drug on for two more decades. Fascinating reading for all "What If?" book lovers, as well as those enjoy history and military adventures, as well as political intrigue.
I felt I needed to read at least one early Hubbard and this one seemed to have the best reputation. The first half seems to be a popcorn response to the First World War, not amazingly deep but easy read of the pointless horror of it. The second half, on the other hand, is downright disturbing not in a good way but in how nativist, vile and fascistic (in spite of hairsplitting claims to the contrary) it is. Really for historians only.
My review is part of my discussion of novels eligible for the 1941 Retro Hugo Award in "Looking Back on Genre History" on Episode 427 of StarShipSofa
All though this book was wrote just prior to world war to, it is an excellent tale of speculative fiction about the war. E. Ron Hubbard was one of the masters of the past generation. I highly recommend it.David DonagheAuthor of Monroe's Paranormal Investigationsand Tale Spinner.
This book is alot of fun. Comes to the point much better than Battlefield Earth or the Mission Earth series.
He's a great stroryteller.
One of the best book I've read.
This is one of my favorite Sci-Fi books, but I tend to love dystopian stories with more than surface meaning.
Non male come lettura, ma niente di particolare: si legge d'un fiato e si arriva ad una fine pessimistica; da un lato la bravura e l'imbattibilità del Tenente, che in una Europa devastata dalla guerra, dove nessuno è il vincitore, ma ognuno cerca di sopravvivere, cerca di salvare la pelle dei suoi sottoposti, dall'altro la completa sfiducia per i politici e le loro macchinazioni. Non mi pare che l'autore offra una luce di speranza, se non la fratellanza fra i compagni d'arme.
Very short. As a WWI historian, the idea of WWIII ending up as WWI all over again is intriguing. The last 15% of the book is disappointing. Really 3.5 stars.
One of my favorite books of all time. I’ve read it many times. The end always gets me.
In command of the Fourth Brigade, the Lieutenant commands 168 soldiers, the troops remaining from an initial group of thousands.
The Lieutenant does his best for the welfare of those in his command, much to the dismay of the remaining high command.
The Lieutenant institutes an agrarian society where all citizens have work to do, weaklings are weeded out, and those disagreeing with the leader assassinated or banished.
The capabilities of a military leader/dictator, who has worked with and been responsible for groups of men, are far above those of career politicians who are out of touch with society because of isolation from the masses.
When I was very young the first long novel I ever read was Battlefield Earth while more respectable than the film L.Ron Hubbard was not the best Science Fiction writer on the planet.However Final Blackout is a bleak doozy of a short novel that I feel had an anarchist message.
Indeed Hubbard predicted a fair amount of stuff right.The novel is about a U.S. Lieutenant who becomes a cult leader (hmmm) in the aftermath of atomic devastation across Europe.
Hubbard didn’t seem to hold on to those beliefs.Try to find the Final Blackout used or at your Library because you know where that money is going right?
Fast, Fun & None Too Deep!I've read Hubbard's Decalogue "Battlefield Earth" years ago.
Hubbard has a surprisingly engaging style using characters and plot much like a house painter applies paint.
By drawing the reader into a story the reader seems to assume is somewhat mechanical, he then surprises the reader with a jarring outcome which shocks the senses of the reader as much as it dislocates the fabric of the plot.
A fast moving, detailed, easy-to-digest story which becomes a wonderfully surprising experience.
While short and not overly deep in either plot or character development, it deserves the five stars for if for no other reason than the irony of its lack of depth.
Mulle meeldis, korralik postapokalüptiline lugu.
Värvikalt ning haaravalt kirja pandud ja ka autori poliitilised-sõjalised loengud ei häirinud.
Need tundusid kuidagi siin teoses omal kohal sest sobitusid hästi peategelasega.
Ehk ei olnud tunnet, et peategelane on vaid nukk, kelle suu kaudud autor oma mõtteid välja purskab.Ainukesed asjad mis häirisid olid raamatu ees- ja järelsõnad.
Sealne Hubbardi meeletu või suisa sektantlik ülistamine hakkas veidi häirima.
Eesõna autor Algis Burdys kohta ei viitsinud uurida aga tundus, et see mees on jäägitult Hubbardi usku.
Lisaks pani mind imestama, et kordagi ei mainitud kõige muu taustal Hubbardi loodud religiooni.
Aga kui muu kõrvale jätta siis hea teos.
Read this years ago and just found it lately and read it again. The story is good, the writing is ok / good and the thoughts it forces us to think are very good.When I read this long ago I simply enjoyed it and it actually turned me on to L Ron (pre-dianetics and all that). I have enjoyed many of his books since. Reading this same book now is both comforting as well as disturbing. I definitely recommend this book to anyone who wants to open their eyes a little without having their lids ripped wide open
I have known L.
Ron Hubbard mainly for being the founder of Scientology and the novel Battlefield Earth.
I had not read the novel, but didn't like the field.
As for Scientology I know nothing about it.
Final Blackout was totally unexpected.
For a start its not as thick as Battlefield Earth.
At about 190 pages it is about 20% its thickness.
It is a very good read.
I enjoyed it.
The plot has twists and turns I did not expect.
If I had to be critical it would be that it was too short.
I wanted more, I wanted to know more about the characters.
I read this book when I was 13 years old and when I knew nothing about Scientology and I absolutely loved it.After growing up and finding out that L. Ron Hubbard is the founder of Scientology, it's hard for me to enjoy the book as much as I used to.Nevertheless I have to give credit where its due. I found this book groundbreaking for its time. First published in 1935, it is set in a futuristic dystopian universe that paints a much darker picture of the world, if WWII were to happen.
For those that enjoy reading post-apocalyptic novels with a seed of hope, this may be another read. Remember the time in which it was written (1939) and some the forward thinking becomes even more interesting. The first part of the book made me think it would be on a list with The Forever War because of the length of the conflict and its toll on the world.The final part is thought-provoking. For those also enjoying tough heroes with a sense of honor...
