https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/823.Quicksilver
Do you know that William III deposed James II in a coup?) It would be nice if a timeline could be provided that summarizes the main points of English history that serve as context for this book - I admit I did not know enough myself of the history involved to get full appreciation of the book on my first reading...
Although he's really just a minor figure in this novel, his diary covers many of the same events that you'll encounter in Quicksilver.3) Be prepared to deal with long digressions and elaborate descriptions.
I actually started this book some time ago, reading it only when I had uninterrupted opportunities to digest the novel.
Here are some of the top ideas I’m mulling over:• The soldier and scientist dynamic between Waterhouse and Shaftoe worked so well in Cryptonomicon that I’d like to do something similar here.
(Maybe this should be a Shaftoe character.)• Thinking about vagabonds, it’d be interesting to do a modern take of a picaresque novel with a rogue-ish hero getting into adventures and insulting the people of quality.
I should also work in some stuff about slavery.• I’d also like to use the Enoch Root character again.
But this basic plot, a straightforward quest for revenge, is such thin gruel that you'd have to be on the lower end of the intellectual spectrum to fail to realize that the book's about something a little bit more than hunting a big fish.Even so, there's no guarantee that you're going to tolerate 20 pages about rope.
I had no idea that rope could be used in such multifaceted ways, and having read that, I am now a different and slightly more rounded person." Then again, you could respond with a "JESUS FUCKING CHRIST, enough with the stupid rope already!
I received an unexpected visit yesterday evening from a Mr. Nosnehpets, who told me he was a time-traveller and writer from the early 25th century.
And this one is due to Winston Churchill.""Details, details," said Nosnehpets impatiently.
Try and see the big picture.""I never came close to stopping the invasion of Iraq," I said faintly, as I continued to leaf through it.
I know we were both brought up in Wales, but..."Nosnehpets sighed.
"I suppose you're going to tell me you didn't discover the Higgs particle either?" he asked, with an unpleasantly ironic inflection.
But the "fiction" part of "historical fiction" comes into play because the main characters --an aspiring natural philosopher (read: scientist) named Daniel Waterhouse, a former concubine turned finance tycoon named Eliza, and a charming vagabond named Jack Shaftoe-- never really existed and were fabricated for the sake of the book, which traces the activities of these three main characters as they live through the era.The main problem I have with Quicksilver was that it was largely plotless.
Where Book 1: Quicksilver dealt primarily with Isaac Newton and Daniel Waterhouse, King of the Vagabonds centers around the adventures of "Half-Cocked" Jack Shaftoe*, Doctor Leibniz, and Eliza.
So, in Book 2 he wanted to spend a bit of time at the bottom of the ladder (hence Vagabonds).* "Half-Cocked" Jack Shaftoe, Daniel Waterhouse, and Eliza (of Qwghlm) are all ancestors of characters from Stephenson earlier book, Cryptonomicon.
Ok. Let us first pretend that there are only two criteria to use when analysing works of fiction, (1) number of characters and (2) richness of plot.
A Dickens novel goes into the upper right quadrant of the grid - many characters and rich plot to bind them together.
Indeed, the scope is even more expansive than this and we can think of these 9 novels as a prequel-series to Cryptonomicon, another 900-page tome in which Neal deals with events happening in WWII.
So in terms of scope, Neal's work is biblical.So. What happens in the three novels bound up in Quicksilver?
Quicksilver by Neal Stephenson is in some ways the strangest book I’ve read this year.The most surprising aspect of the book is the fact that there is no plot.
Almost a thousand pages of exploring a historical setting occasionally becomes an arduous task, but occasionally also becomes an exciting adventure filled with interesting details.The book is divided into three parts.
From their meeting during the siege of Vienna, the book follows them on a journey together through the various principalities and kingdoms of Europe, filled with strange details and interesting histories.The third book pulls the first two together in something of a conclusion, leading up to the year 1688.
This was the book that knocked Neal Stephenson off of my "buy on sight" list. Too long, nothing happening, the first of three dauntingly large volumes. That about sums it up.
Waterhouse and details his exploits during his time as a courtier for Charles II of England.Set during the Baroque era NS shows the monumental changes taking place.
As an aside, the Baroque era was one where the Catholic Church, under the guidance of the Council of Trent (1545-1563 in Trento, Italy), decided to perform a Counter-Reformation to act against the growing Protestant outbreak.
if you're interested in the scientific, political and economic forces that drove the baroque period then this is the book for you.
Vast in scope, dark in humor, dense in knowledge, lacking in a strict, linear plot-this is textbook NS.
Reading a huge 900+ page hardcover book with a seemingly open plot filled with pages of 17th century philosophical exposition and the requirement of reading two more books just like it may seem like a chore, but for me at least, Stephenson makes it fascinating.
(Technically, it's the first 3 books in a series of 8.) As such, you will be rewarded if you manage to make it to the second volume, where the real payoff for these characters is.Stephenson doesn't have a poetic way with words; rather, his strength lies in his marvelous ability to explain just about any concept.
it took me about a year to get through this one.
somewhat worth it, and i will get around to the second and third books of this gargantuan trilogy eventually.
i learned a lot about the philosopher-scientists and byzantine politics and what it actually was like to live in the tumultuous times depicted...and didn't learn a whole lot about the inner life of a couple of the central characters.
but there are dozens and dozens of truly fascinating and wonderfully written passages depicting all sorts of dramatic and at-times morbid events - more than enough to make up for the relentless and dry detailing of every frickin' scientific, economic or philosophic theory ever contemplated.
The first third of the book was generally plodding and lacking in any interesting protagonists (and no, I don't care that the oh-so-clever-writer added in as many famous characters as he could think of, they were still generally annoying).
Not like The-Empire-Strikes-Back-second-act-as-many-bad-things-happen-as-possible awful, though I think that's what the author was aiming for.
The only "real" female character in the novel is badly written.
I mean, it's not like his male characters beyond Jack are well-thought out and consistently imagined.
I don't know if this is one of those "well aren't women just like that, guffaw" things or simply another literary over-extension on the author's part.
complete reread of the novel (and of course continuing with the sequels) - while I greatly enjoyed it the first time I read the series (in 2008), this time I have appreciated it even more; epic, memorable characters, adventures, intrigue and the birth of the modern world set on the twin pillars of formalized rational inquiry - what we call now science and was once called natural philosophy - and capitalism which forces innovation - which for most history was strongly resisted by societies - by competition
Reading this book was kind of like...
spending an afternoon on a long walk through the countryside, with a kindly but eccentric uncle, who happens to be a brilliant historian.
I could listen to his rambling anecdotes for hours...
except at some point I realised that we'd been walking for so long...
It's a big book, but it's utterly fascinating and I loved it.I have 40+ books sitting on my 'review-soon' shelf that I just don't have time to write proper reviews for, so I'm going to bash out as many of these mini-reviews as I can before Christmas :-)After this I read: Boneshaker
Nije ni čudo da mi je trebalo tjedan dana za knjigu kad je ona sama trilogija. Upravo je nevjerojatna količina istraživanja koju je autor proveo da bi oov napisao. likovi, scenografija, odjeća, maniri, sve je detaljno do u picabocu. Situacije teku, izmjenjuju se, i knjiga skoro da nema dosadnog dijela. Kraljevi, prirodni filozofi, stvarni i izmišljeni likovi izmjenjuju se iz stranice u stranicu upadaju iz situacije u sitaciju. 4.75a sad mi treba neka nefikcija da malo isperem mozak prije idućeg nastavka.
The guy has a command of the english language and is certainly fascinated by late 17th century and early 18th century goings-on that this feels like a historical narrative rather than historical fiction, yet the whole book feels like it was written in computer code; it is an odd stylistic quirk of his that I've noticed in his past books, but does not really fit in this book.
The most cool thing about this is that he wrote the whole book (and the next two in the trilogy - nearly three thousand full pages of book) with a fountain pen on cotton paper.
Don't get into this series unless you read quickly, REALLY like his other stuff, or are unduly fascinated with the Baroque era.
So many people have already reviewed this book--so instead of a comprehensive review, I will only mention one of many truly memorable scenes.
In a meeting of the Royal Society in London, various natural philosophers report on their recent findings, inventions and discoveries.
The juxtaposition of banal reports with momentous discoveries is absolutely hilarious.
I won't try to paraphrase it--the scene is lengthy--but this section is worth reading by any modern-day scientist.
The point is that at the time of discovery, its true importance is not known, or even guessed at.
It's only after time has passed that we learn whether a discovery is trivial or important.
You can say any sort of nonsense in Latin, and our feeble university men will be stunned, or at least profoundly confused. That’s how the popes have gotten away with peddling bad religion for so long, they simply say it in Latin.It is assuring to see Stephenson working and waxing so Pynchonian. The author is putting in the work, sketching the details, plumbing for the argot, inserting the puns. I've read it twice. the Waterhouse sections are divine, the others not so lofty.
I've owned this "cycle" of books for something like seven years.
But I'm going with it anyway and if I'm not totally burned out after a few quick reads I want to dive right back in to the sequence and get through the next 2000 pages or whatever at least by the end of the year.
I loved Stephenson's "Snow Crash".
Really liked "Cryptonomicon".
But, this novel was terribly boring.
It is divided into three books.
Book 1 follows the scientist Dan Waterhouse.
Book 2 followed Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds.
Book 3 sees Eliza, a former slave girl, caught up in a spy ring between the French, English & Dutch governments.
Sounds good, but it isn't.
The writing is too long, and too detailed to remain focused on what should be important to the story...the story.
I found myself skipping paragraphs of setting and science-speak to find the plot of the novel, but to no avail.
and are led on great many an escapade in which, as the phrase goes, hilarity ensues.In some interview Stephenson defines science fiction as fiction that takes ideas seriously, and by that measure this is major league science fiction.
There are no robots, cyborgs, or time travel, but we do encounter the beginnings of modern science (promiscuous with alchemy), the transmutation of rare earth metals into coins, credit, and finance, the operations of the British Mint and Royal Society, the various sultanates of Asia, the global slave trade, the manufacturing of watered steel, cryptography, the logistical difficulties of sailing and of naval warfare, the beginnings of steam engines, and the lived experience of London’s sewer problems, with lots of clanging swordplay along the way.
But his particular modern prose sensibility is basically a transcription of the stylings of an overeducated hipster douche kicking back in a hipster douche bar, telling his hipster douche friends about that time he got lost on vacation and nearly died of malaria, but the entire point of the story is to be arch and ironic and detached about the whole thing, because let's be honest, nothing bad could truly ever happen to this hipster douche, that just isn't how the world works and he knows it.
Neal Stephenson needs an editor.Also, it may be cute and even kind of interesting to write an historical fantasy novel using idioms and vernacular from the 20th century on purpose, but it just doesn't work for me.And yeah, ok we get it Neal, you're really clever and know a bunch of stuff...that doesn't mean you need to reference every bit of it you can stuff into the books you write.It's kind of dissapointing because the ideas and possibilities of where this book could have been going were really interesting...Neal Stephenson just kept getting in the way.
One of the most elaborate, detailed and wonderful books I've ever read and re-reading it was pure pleasure. If you want to be inspired by the 17th century, fall in love mathematics and science, or bedazzled by the sheer complexity of a world then this is book for you.
If you purchase Quicksilver Volume 1 do not purchase the Books that are available in a solitary format.
My one comment is that if you choose to read Quicksilver: Book 1 rather than Volume 1 you may not be as impressed.
I enjoyed them but the first time I read this it was as the volume and not the book and including the stories of Half-cocked Jack and Eliza helps to make Volume holistic.
My personal recommendation, if you enjoy large dense books, read the books in the three volumes rather than the 8 book format.Daniel Waterhouse is a friend and colleague of Isaac Newton.
I admit it.
I have absolutely no desire to finish this book.
I'm so very close to the end, but I stopped caring somewhere along the way.
I really don't know what it is that keeps me from finishing it.
Maybe it's because I only have about 120 pages left and I know that nothing's going to be resolved.
Maybe it's because I've read 781 pages and have no idea what the heck is going on.
Is this book about anything other than history?
I can see why people do like it.
In fact, I like it myself.
What a mess! This volume commits several heinous sins; the Sin of Protagonist Switching occurs twice. The Sin of Rambling Aimlessly occurs through out. The Sin of Being Pointless might possibly be redeemed in the remaining volumes...but can I be bothered to read them?There are fun and exciting passages that account for the two star rating but they are islands floating on the structural swamp.
It was one of the most boring books I've ever read in my entire life.
There were only a couple interesting characters and of course they had the shortest sections in the book.
I could saved myself the hassle and only read the 100 or so pages that were semi interesting.
It was like a hugely boring history lesson (that isn't actually factual) that seemed to stretch on and on and on.
I can't believe people read this book and then liked it enough to continue on to two (TWO!!) more books in the sereis.
Also, why was this book in the science fiction section?!?
He may be over it by now (as I have not read any of his more recent work), but I’m convinced that at the time he was writing Cryptonomicon and the Baroque Cycle (of which Quicksilver is the first volume), the first thing Neal Stephenson did every morning right after getting out of bed was to shamble into the bathroom and stand there for ten minutes, just staring bleary-eyed into mirror and bemoaning his fate that it was not Thomas Pynchon looking back at him.If with Cryptonomicon Stephenson tried to write Gravity’s Rainbow, then the Baroque Cycle is his attempt at authoring Mason & Dixon, an exploration of modern technology and the effect it has had on the 20th century followed by a sprawling, weird, detail-obsessed historical novel.
