https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836611.Fruits_Basket_Vol_4
OMG!!!
I forgot how much I loved this Manga series!
<333Fruits Baskets will always be one of my faves!
*LMAO*”Then you should have slept in Shigure’s room like yesterday!!””But Gure-San would have kept me awake.”“Now now, not in front of the children.”Speaking of which!
Is there actually something going on between Gure-San and Ayame-San?!
XD”I want to live with all my memories.
Even if they’re sad memories.
Even if they’re memories that only hurt me.
Even… Even if they’re memories that I’d rather forget.”Oh, Momiji-Kun!!!
He can have all my love!!
<333 Also I love that he dressed as a girl!
You rock Momiji-Kun!
Oh man, Momiji breaks my heart. I love that kid so much. To this day, no story has had quite the impact as that story he tells about the Traveller who gives everything away. *river of tears*Natsuki Takaya wreaked all kinds of mad havoc on my poor tattered heart, but rarely so much as this single volume.
We witness Tohru's first harrowing encounter with Akito, and reflect on the importance of good parenting on the one year anniversary of her mother's passing.
We went from Akito's hard, wretched stare that is hiding so much unknown emotion, to Momiji's sad and yet optimistic eyes as he reflects on his past.
By placing Momiji's backstory beside the one year passing of Tohru's mother, we really are forced to reflect on how much of an impact parents have on their children, and how good or bad acts not only stay with them forever, but play a part in shaping who they become.
Spoilers-A more entertaining read than volume 3.-Tohru, Shiguire, Momiji and Kyo were as likeable as ever.
Yuki was more interesting in this one, his antagonistic relationship with his older brother gave him some much needed personality-Loved Uo and Hana, the way they both looked out for Tohru was sweet.
There should be more female friendships like Uo/Hana/Tohru in fiction.-Yuki's brother Ayame was pretty funny.
I enjoyed reading about Ayame, Hatori and Shiguire's friendship as teens.
-I liked the glimpses of Tohru's mum, the mother-daughter bond between them was so lovely.-Loved that Kyo was becoming more and more protective of Tohru.
5/5 starsFruits Basket is the cutest romance with a very important mythological element you'll ever find!
And that's because, when hugged or touched in a not so friendly way by the opposite gender, or when they are in extreme distress, the members of the Sohma family turn into animals!
And specifically, the animals of the Chinese Horoscope.And this manga has also a very unique element.
Hope.
Hope for the future, that the pain will end and creativity beyond everything.
And in our painful society, hope can be a very important toolHighly recommended, both the anime and the manga~Mary
Just like the other parts of this series, this issue was hilarious and adorable. The crazy antics between them all makes for great comedy. This one did have its sadder moments though especially with the backstory of Momiji and the way Yuki reacted to Akito's presence.
im totally binge reading this today and hopefully finish it tomorrowi really missed the characters my fav is haru and ofcourse kyo cant wait to see other charas
go read the manga so that way you'll know what I'm referring to.Okay, so I really don't need to tell you how awesome Takaya-sensei is.
She talks about video games all the time and you want to know what's the best part?
Tohru is a constant support to everyone she comes in contact with, Yuki has a lot of things revealed about his past that makes you want to bash Akito for, Akito is an ass ('Nuff said), and Kyo...
It's that realistic aspect that keeps me wanting to see what will happen to these beautiful characters.
A really fun and cute series. The premise is really original and enjoyable. The characters are interesting and lovable. My only complaint is the story-line is a bit drug-out.
Il volume finisce con due episodi molto dolci e materni, con Momiji e il suo rapporto con la madre e l’anniversario della morte della mamma di Tohru con Yuki, Kiyo e le più care amiche della ragazza che cercheranno di rendere quel giorno meno triste.
Mi piace molto come questa serie unisca scene diverentissime ad altre che trattano temi alquanto seri e questo volume è un esempio perfetto di ciò, visto che inizia con tanto divertimento, finisce in maniera tragica/triste mentre la parte centrale è un misto tra i due.
A cute yet semi-dark type of take on zodiac personas inside of characters. The main thing that bothers me about this story is how the females are overly sexualized at times. I do like how there is some representation of transgenders in this story though, if my understanding is correct. I think the anime for me is more enjoyable than the manga though. Just my thoughts.
It's starting to become a little more romantic!
I like the mysterious aura that comes from Kyo the cat. I think he's hiding something.
( they can be there selfs it's not like the spirits are controlling them) but every time they are touched by the opposite gender they turn into the zodiac animals.
The series tells the story of Tohru Honda, an orphan girl who, after meeting Yuki, Kyo, and Shigure Sohma, learns that thirteen members of the Sohma family are possessed by the animals of the Chinese zodiac and are cursed to turn into their animal forms if they are embraced by anyone of the opposite gender.
Who'd love them anyway, no matter what.But non-acceptance hurts, and you can find that in real life.Maybe it's the way you took or the way you speak, or what you do or what you're interested in.
There are people in the world that will judge you.But when you meet someone who doesn't care about those things, THAT is who will matter in your life.Oh. And.When you're strong, you will be able to still be happy for others.
Care for others and still get up on your feet and do what you need to do.No matter what pain you have.AND PAIN HURTS.
Tohru finally meets Akito in person and the encounter doesn't really go as expected.
Mainly because Yuki shows up about 20 seconds later and Akito turns on him and rips him a new one about not showing up for New Years.
Yuki is terrified of Akito and the punishments Akito is capable and Tohru sees the fear in his eyes and manages him to get him away and lighten the mood.
We also meet Yuki's older brother Ayame, who is the incarnate of the Year of the Snake.
This series definitely gets better as it goes. I am starting to really like it!
4/5 stars.
This was the first Fruits Basket I ever read and it’s still one of my favorite volumes. The Kyo/Tohru is strong, plus we meet Akito and Ayame!
4,5 Un tome très sympa et plein d'émotions ! Atori me fait flipper ^^ j'adore tellement les amies de Tohru ! <3
5/5I really enjoyed this volume the second time around. It's always fun to read about Shigure, Hatori and Aya's time together in school.Onto volume 5!
I love Ayame sooo much! He's hilarious! The series just gets better and better! Takaya-sensei is an amazing manga-ka!
I don't care that they're supposed to be for girls, I enjoy these. I love the humor.
This series is getting deep, man!
Loved that scene with him & Yuki.
& even with this overall happy funny light tone, the story does seem to be getting a bit more serious, especially where Akito is involved.
Tohru is such a strong person, despite how ditzy she comes off as at first glance.
(& he's a guy who turns into a snuggly little bunny.) Kyo & Yuki are still my favs though.
Thank you, "fruits basket" for setting feminism back about ten years with that little scene.
Because frankly, "fruits basket" is an overload of cute.
Tohru, Kyo, and Yuki start their second year of school, and Momiji and Hatsuharu join them.
When Yuki sees Akito talking to Tohru at school, he becomes terrified and intercedes.
There is an extremely touching chapter focused on Momiji and his family where we see that in many ways he resembles Tohru; these two have dealt with adversity in similar ways, which may explain why in the last volume he empathized with the story of the traveling fool.
Momiji’s story lays the groundwork for the family narratives of the other members of the zodiac.
I was afraid at first that this series may not hold up when rereading it, but it is completely the opposite.
It is a wonderful series to reread!
Granted their are a few less surprises and 'Oh snap!' revelations, but there is so much more meaning and depth to each of the characters this time around!
There were at least two instances in this volume where I remembered the characters motivations that are revealed later in the series, and I wanted to burst into tears at my understanding of what was actually happening in those panels.
And then read it again.
And then read it again.
Happy Reading!
In this volume, we meet two of the most flamboyant and evil characters in Fruits Basket- Akito, the head of the Sohma family, and Ayame, Yuki's over the top extraordinary older brother.
Akito is very creepy and has a twisted spoiled personality.
He has to have complete control of the 12 zodiac cursed family members and does some mental torture on Yuki.
Akito does what he wants, says what he wants to any body.
He's a wonderful character cursed with the (Snake) no one talks or acts quite like him.
He's best friends with Hatori(the dragon/ sea horse) and Shigure (the dog).Fruits Basket is awesome!!!!
The three biggest seemed to be Lone Wolf and Cub, Fullmetal Alchemist (both of which I had read and was very familiar with) and then Fruits Basket of which I knew nothing.
Now I am no means a manga expert but I have read some and grew up with friends at the time who were really into them but I hadn't heard any discussion of Fruits Basket so I had to check it out.The first one available in my library was vol 4 so I decided to start there.
I will definitely at some point go back and read the rest of the series from the start.
Here are a few thoughts I had while rereading this volume:- I love how Tohru is wearing the ribbon Yuki gave her at the onsen!
But I really love how Tohru can be strong when her friends are in trouble.
For example, (view spoiler)[ she pushes Akito away from Yuki when she sees Yuki becoming scared.
(hide spoiler)]- The last half of volume 4 is so sad!
Especially chapter 23, where we find out that (view spoiler)[ Momiji's mother rejected him and decided to have her memories of him erased.
(hide spoiler)] I just wanted to hug him so much!!Next up is volume 5!
