https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25419.When_I_Was_Puerto_Rican
My coworker once called me a Jibaro because I have family who live in Aibonito, Puerto Rico. Actually at this very moment, my parents who retired, now live there. I remember that beautiful island. Surviving a hurricane, eating mangos, guavas, arroz con gandules, tostones, getting slapped for being a wild child and just being a child growing up on the pearl of the carribean. I enjoyed this book very much, even though my opinion may be biased. Reading this made me greatful for the childhood of which I lived.
It was hard to see Esmeralda Santiago when I was constantly thinking of my own family and what we shared in our experiences and attitudes and background and what we didn't.
(I despised the celebrated House on Mango Street by Cisneros for instance.)In a lot of ways mind you Santiago and I are very different--you could say her experience is much closer to the experience of my mother than myself.
Santiago expressed at times an ambivalence, a resentment of how moving to the American mainland made her a "hybrid." My family never looked back.
This isn't a full review, because I read this when it published so many years ago, but I do remember finishing it with a new appreciation for all that my parents went through when they moved from Puerto Rico to New York. A great book that I highly recommend.
When I Was Puerto Rican is the memoir of Esmeralda Santiago, and her journey from a poor young girl living in rural Puerto Rico, to a successful writer based in New York City.Her story begins in a tin house in Macun.
Negi is excited by the news, but when she continues to ask her mother, she orders her never to discuss neither Provi nor Margie again.The family moves to Santruce,a suburb of San Juan, because of the father's unsteady job.
Soon after, Francisco learns he has cancer, and at the same time, Negi's mother finds out that she is once again pregnant.
The mother a strong person that seemed to run the family.Initially, I could not figure out why the father would leave for days at a time; and then found that theywere not married.
She was having way too many children which left the oldest to oversee them.The father seemed very nice and took time to talk and teach Esmeralda.
Mother was determined to see that thechild with the injured foot was going to get better and finally moving part of the family to New York.Altho living conditions were not an improvement.
The book left the reader up in the air about how theirlives progressed.
A Esmeralda la llaman Negi y, a pesar de todas las carencias de su pueblo, en la escuela aprende unas cuantas palabras de inglés, porque Puerto Rico es un estado libre asociado de los Estados Unidos (si alguna vez se preguntan por qué los inmigrantes puertoriqueños no tienen problemas con la ciudadanía americana, ahí tienen su respuesta: ya la tienen).
Sin embargo, más o menos a la mitad del libro, empezamos a oír las alusiones a como Negi se va a convertir en una señorita y cómo hombres empiezan a verla de otra manera, cómo su madre le empieza a prohibir salir y cómo le dicen que no juegue con los mismos chicos que jugaba antes.
I was debating putting it down and moving along when I decided to read the first page and then I couldn’t put it down.Everything in the book, I had read before in a different memoir or a fiction book about an inspiring immigrant child but it felt like I was reading it for this the first time in that book.
The writing was the perfect blend of description and emotion.I think the one emotion I felt during my entire read of the book was longing.
I don’t know what Esmeralda was longing for, but somehow I felt like I was longing for it too.
I love how Esmeralda makes us see life through the eyes of that little girl she once was.
She was able to show their tender and loving side as well as their human side, people who made mistakes, even with their children.
Many times we forget that our parents are someone other than our mom and our dad.
I am in awe that this little girl who moved around so much was able to persevere despite the many obstacles that presented themselves – HARVARD GRADUATE, WOW!
Esmeralda has added to the pride I feel of that beautiful island that my dad and his family come from.
Negi (as the author was called as a child) was born in Puerto Rico in 1948, and most of the book recalls her childhood on the island.
She was the oldest of seven children born to her parents, who had a contentious relationship that often meant the children were uprooted.
I truly empathized with Negi's childhood experiences: going to a new school, being separated from family, and the big transition that comes when she's 13: moving to Brooklyn with her mother and siblings.
She paints a vivid portrait of life in Puerto Rico in the 1950s and the efforts and roadblocks to assimilation once she arrived in New York.
I love immigrant stories and this was very inspirational. Most of the book focuses on the author's early years in Puerto Rico. It would have been nice to have some back story on her parents and their relationship, but she may not have had that information. The book ends when she gets accepted into the School of Arts in Manhattan which is when I think her life would have just started getting interesting. We know later on she gets a scholarship to Harvard.
3.5 stars.This is an interesting memoir, but it does feel old school. Most memoirs I read are much more in-your-face, even graphic. This tale of poverty and immigration is more subtle and slow moving. I loved the descriptions of Puerto Rico and her confusion about her parents' love-hate relationship.Glad I read it.
First book I've read that accurately captures what it's like to move from the Caribbean to the East Coast. I nearly jumped out of my chair shouting 'Say is sister, that's exactly what it was like!' while reading her description of driving from the airport to her new home in the States.

An enormously interesting book. Ms. Santiago’s descriptive and lyrical writing depicts a highly talented young woman growing up poor in Puerto Rico, but surrounded by a caring family, plenty of good food, and unaware of her poverty. A move to Brooklyn in the turbulent 60s gives her a chance to grow and develop into the talent she is today. A rewarding look at the hardships and achievements of a beautiful woman.
Definitely an interesting look at a young girl's life in Puerto Rico and New York growing up in the 50s and 60s. Santiago has a nice writing style, and I was a little sad that the book ended. Santiago's memoir is full of thoughtful reflections/observations on cultures. I'm definitely interested in the next memoir in the sequence.
Liked it.
My sister insisted that I read this book pretty much nagging me, so I picked it up and couldn't put it down, I absolutely loved the story, I would have like to learn more about Negi's parents and how their relationship started.
This story is raw and I felt a lot of emotions reading it.
I can't wait to read her next book to continue where When I was Puerto Rican left off.
Read for book club. Really enjoyed this. Very painful to read sometimes, adolescence and puberty is hard enough. But getting to see and experience her life was a treat. Rich and vibrant despite all the roughness that surrounded Negi. Also, some absolutely stunning writing, even a lovely passage about learning to crochet for the first time, so sweet and endearing. But such a great book to read that was slightly out of my comfort zone.
I have never read a book that was so relatable to my own personal experience growing up Puerto Rican in New York. It’s a great read
In a lot of ways, this reminded me of Glass Castle. Not as gripping though. Still a great memoir and I look forward to reading more from this author.
I really wanted to read this novel because I felt that it could teach me more about what it means to be a Puerto Rican.
I read this novel from the perspective of a second generation Puerto Rican, who has never been to Puerto Rico as an adult.
Despite the absence of her father Santiago does her best to work hard in school.
I walked away from this novel contributing Santiago's success to her reverence for her heritage and her ability to contribute to what she believed it means to be a female Puerto Rican.
En Cuando era puertorriqueña, Esmeralda Santiago nos relata los recuerdos de su infancia en Puerto Rico y sus primeras experiencias al llegar a los Estados Unidos.
Esta es la historia de muchos inmigrantes de los Estados Unidos, en especial la de los más afortunados, que no sólo superan las adversidades y se acoplan a una nueva vida que puede ser incluso más difícil, sobre todo al comienzo, sino que también logran sus sueños y se ven recompensados por todos sus esfuerzos.
En mi opinión hay cierta similitud entre la narrativa de Esmeralda Santiago y la de Julia Álvarez y así como en el caso de Antes de ser libres, me parecen historias escritas especialmente para lectores jóvenes.
This book concentrates on the life of a young Puerto Rican girl, Esmeralda.
By the end of the book, Esmeralda has 11 siblings and her mom is single.
There are several explicit events in this book that really shocked me because no one as young as 12 should’ve experienced the cruel and devastating things that Esmeralda went through.
This book would be good to introduce to a classroom of high schoolers who are learning about different cultures.
I personally didn’t like the ending of this book because it left me with so many questions.
It has to do with a thirteen year old named Esmeralda she has to move to New York after her little brother gets in a bicycle accident and finds out that her father was cheating on her mother.
Her brother was riding a bicycle down the street in Puerto Rico when he was 3-4 yrs old his little foot got stuck on the chain and his foot opened up.
My favorite part of the book is when Esmeralda plays in the wood when her father is building the house in Puerto Rico and she gets termites all over her.
Like many mainstream Americans, I knew little about Puerto Rican life before reading Santiago's memoir.
She doesn't minimize the pain of growing up in a poor, rural family where her parents had different views of marriage but she is the opposite of a whiner.Still by the end of the book her mother's decision to return to the island from New York did not surprise me because Santiago had also described the pleasures of growing up in the countryside, including the network of neighbors who kept their doors open for visitors.
And the child Esmeralda, through whose eyes we look, is delightful.
When I Was Puerto Rican is a story about the Puerto Rican culture and how it influenced the life of a girl named Esmeralda, even after she left Puerto Rico.
When her little brother Raymond is injured and needs medical attention in New York, Esmeralda is forced to move there and adapt to it's environment.
I personally enjoyed this book because my mother's family is Puerto Rican and I have heard stories about Puerto Rico and what it is like, so this book reminded me of that.
The way that Esmeralda described Puerto Rico and her memories there was very similar to how my family described Puerto Rico and their memories.
It's a true story about the life of Esmeralda Santiago who was born and raised in Puerto Rico.
Her family was really poor and she had a lot of siblings.
She sometimes had to cook for her family and even takae care of her siblings.
Her father cheated on her mother and soon Esmeralda found out that she had a sister from her dad's side who was close to the same age as her and livesd with her mother in New York City.
Esmeralda sometimes felt that her parents sometimes didn't care about her and she felt that every time a new sibling was born the further away she was getting from being loved by her parents.
The book was full of anecdotes that paint a picture of what it's like to come of age in both rural and urban Puerto Rico.
Towards the end of the book Santiago's family moves to New York - I would have liked to have read more about her story as an immigrant.
Although some difficult things happened to her, the overall tone of the book was light and optimistic, perhaps because it was told from the point of the view of a child and, more importantly, since it was a memoir things did really work out well in the end.
I have nothing good to say about this book and can only think about how much I ended up detesting it.Written with blancitos in mind it portrays the typical and uncomplicated uplift narrative of immigration to the United States and the prose moves along with clunky use and immediate translation of Spanish words and Puerto Rican cultural aspects rather than letting them stand on their own and letting the reader make sense of it (or not).Even the title sticks in my craw. . . when you were Puerto Rican? What are you now?¡Basta con esta vaina!
When I Was Puerto Rican is a memoir of Esmeralda Santiago's life from the time she was about four years old, in Puerto Rico, to when she was about fourteen, after she had been in New York for about an year and a half, give or take.
While not the best book I've ever read, WIWPR is a great coming of age story.
I think I might have liked it more if my teacher had us reading it faster than we were.
As it is, I liked the book but it's not a favorite.
However, I think that it's definitely worth at least three stars.
