https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10335790-adjustment-team
(I vacillate between “Adjustment Team” and “The Father Thing.”) At any rate, it certainly has the Dickian quality I love most: the ability to permanently alter the way you perceive and judge the world around you.The story sounds crazy even in summary, and, yes, it is certainly crazy.
What must the Adjustment Team do now?This story convinced me of its reality the first time I read it, and sometimes, turning a corner, I think I see the Adjustment Team out of the corner of my eye, walking away—self-possessed, anonymous—having altered the time stream, slightly and forever, one more time.Maybe I’m too gullible, maybe The Adjustment Team can’t alter reality.
Quick read, awesome premise but... the movie was better? Wow I never thought I'd say that one day.
"You saw, and you should not have seen. (...) Like the others, you should have undergone changes".Este conto foi motivo de inspiração para o filme "Adjustment bureau" (2011), de George Nolfi, com Matt Damon e Emily Blunt.Foi daqui que partiu a minha curiosidade para ler esta narrativa. Há muitas diferenças. Mas apesar de tudo, são ambos muito bons!
Dick’s short story The Adjustment Team on audio and they sent me a copy.
This is the story that the movie The Adjustment Bureau was based on (and the name of the audiobook is The Adjustment Bureau).
The story is 57 minutes of tension and psychological terror as Ed Fletcher gets to work late and accidentally sees The Adjustment Team “adjusting” his office building and its occupants.
I enjoyed “The Adjustment Team,” I’m glad I’ve finally read the story that the popular movie was based on, and I’m particularly happy to be able to listen to short stories on audio.
A synopsis or a trailer for the new film titled The Adjustment Bureau reveals that Matt Damon plays David Norris, a US Senate candidate who serendipitously meets Elise Sallas, a ballerina played by Emily Blunt, and that together, following a plot complication or two, they go on the run from men in black suits and cool fedoras.
No sooner or later than 8:15 should the Summoner bark and call on a Friend With A Car to offer Ed a ride, but as one would expect from a plot introduction involving a character who is barely awake, something goes wrong: the dog falls asleep at the most precarious of times and barks a minute too late.
PKD is a gold mine for fascinating plots and incredible movie premises. He doesn't flesh anything out in his writing. It's all very bare bones. That's probably what makes his work so wonderfully adaptable into films. He provides the brilliant premise and then it's up to the screen writer to do the rest. I feel that if he had lived longer he could have elaborated on some of his most promising stories.
Interesting premise but a short story wasn't enough to fully realize its potential.
PKD’s idea, however, is even better in that it not only makes us think about the underlying forces of what we regard as reality but also ask ourselves if history follows a plan and what role single individuals might play in this.
Apart from this, the cock-and-bull-story as to how détente is going to be achieved depends on so many further coincidences that it is quite clear that the Adjustment Team will not be out of work too soon, just the same way as the agents of the nanny-state, by constantly re-defining the needs and legal claims of their clients, successfully guarantee their own raison d’être.It is here and in Ed’s condoning the backstage machinations that for me lies the blood-curdling quality of the story.
The short story was very different to what I had expected, set as it is in a long-gone era of cold war tensions and sexist/chauvinistic attitudes towards women (wait, maybe the latter hasn't changed so much after all...but that's another debate).
Although the short story didn't answer the questions the movie had inspired, I now have a better appreciation of the difficulties faced by film makers and writers of screenplays - how to transform novels and short stories into contemporary, watchable movies which appeal to a broad audience whilst still retaining elements of the original story?
This's the story that inspired Matt Damon's movie The adjustment bureau .
The movie takes some things but is completely another story.Phillip K Dick's writing is engaging and creative.
If you don't know, many (a ton) of sci-fi movies are based or inspired on his works:  Blade runner, total recall, minority report, next, paycheck, a scanner darkly, impostor, the man in the high castle, among others.
He is an important figure in sci-fi, and often explored the question about what's real and identity.I liked this very much, is interesting, creative, intriguing, it puts your imagination to fly.
Very interesting idea, but the execution could have been better.It was the inspiration for The Adjustment Bureau, which I also enjoyed and would see again.
So.. men are the superior gender? I wasn’t a fan of the film a few years ago, but think I enjoyed that more than this. I mean, it was interesting, but the film actually asked a little bit more of the audience than this.
I think he was on the verge of executing some literary devices well but for the most part his character interaction is unrealistic, his sense of proportion is misplaced, and his syntax leaves much to be desired, not to mention his attitude towards women is frankly offensive (but that's actually beside the point).His characters: During one of the most action filled sequences Dick slows down the pacing by describing Ed's (the protagonist) selection of a table in a diner, what he and his wife order, and only then does the author move back to the issue at hand, why Ed is upset and not at work.
And, don't get me wrong, it is a cool/crazy idea, but once he came up with the premise, the story itself couldn't have taken him much longer to write than it took me to read it.
Combine the overly sparse narrative with the stilted dialogue and some very dated, 50s-feeling touches, and it came off more like a script for an episode of The Twilight Zone than a fully-realized work of speculative fiction.Having said that, it was a fun half-hour read, and I am certainly not deterred from trying out more of Philip K.
Vou ficar com saudades dele, gostei muito do estilo do autor, é o tipo de ficção científica que me agrada bastante (bem mais que aliens verdes de cabeça grande…).Esse é talvez o terceiro conto de Realidades Adaptadas que lida com destino e abre questões sobre livre-arbítrio.
Um bocado irônico, do meu ponto de vista, especialmente e era a intenção do PKD fazer a equipe de ajuste como uma espécie de anjos da guarda da realidade, e um aceno à religião.Terei de passar mais tempo agora pensando na forma como religião se interlaça com os contos do autor… e termino este livro vidrada na ideia de ir atrás de O Homem do Castelo Alto.
Too short..Even though the story is very brief, it is quite mind-bending.The idea that hidden manipulators controlling our lives is the main focus of the story.The lack of free will and the existence of a Plan for every person or a global master Plan is unbearably poignant and there are multiple ways of interpreting and develop upon that idea: fate, destiny, religion, true love?Who was adjusting the adjustment team and the Old Man?Also, the talking dog - really?!Our methods may seem strange and indirect. Even incomprehensible. But I assure you we know what we're doing.
Although this short story, originally titled The Adjustment Team, was the basis for the film starring Matt Damon and Emily Blunt, it is very different from the movie. Overall, I really liked the short story but since it was a bit dated, I'd say I enjoyed the movie more.
A real estate salesman accidentally gets a view behind the scenes of reality, where men in white robes manipulate the entire world.
He meets the Old Man, who everyone eventually meets, and is told he has accidentally been allowed to see behind the scenes, where reality is made and adjusted as needed.
He is allowed to return home if he never again mentions having seen the reality adjustment team to anyone, as well as convincing his wife that he had a psychotic break.
Like most of the works of Dick which were adapted for the screen, the movie The Adjustment Bureau has very little to do with the book.
I read the version of this short story that was here: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Adjust...This is the first Philip Dick story I've read - read it because I really liked the movie that was based on it (the Adjustment Bureau).Since I saw the movie first, it's obvious that I'll compare the two, and my experience with the Adjustment Team was almost entirely based on the movie - the story has a great premise (which it shares with the movie), but the short length makes it difficult to be as engaged with anyone in the story other than the protagonist.
Really small book.Intriguing and fast-paced. If you have watched the movie(The Adjustment Bureau) before reading this book, then you may not like this.There is a slight difference between the characters(different profession and different relationships) as depicted in the movie. No conversation with God/Chairman/Highest Authority is depicted in the movie.One more thing Mr. P.K. Dick. is regarded very high among the Science-Fiction reader,Definitely among top 10 authors in Science-Fiction genre.Many of his novels have been adapted into movies: Blade Runner, Total Recall, Minority Report, and of course The Adjustment Bureau.I like this genre.
Conto que deu origem ao filme com Matt Damon. Do conto, o filme só pega a ideia central. Existe um destino traçado e "pessoas" responsáveis por fazer com que esse plano se concretize. Contudo, algo sai errado e o protagonista descobre esse segredo.O conto é legal, tem uma certa insinuação de que tudo pode ser loucura do personagem. E para mim esse é o principal, senão único, ponto alto. De resto, o filme sabe trabalhar melhor a ideia e a trama como um todo.Além disso, me incomodou o excesso de advérbios e a repetição de pronomes pessoais em parágrafos.
3.5 starsI enjoyed the film the Adjustment Bureau. It was a neat concept but I could do without the romance. This, short story, it's source material, thankfully does not contain that element and I liked it more the film. I feel this story better captures the oddness of the situation and the horror and panic the main character feels when he witnesses the "adjustment."
Very vivid in the descriptions of how gray and lifeless everything becomes once adjusted. The dog creating the problem in the beginning and solving the problem in the end was a comical ring-composition. Looking forward to watching the film!
Hmmm...I'm not completely sure what to think here. I know that this is a short story and that it was only a basis for the movie, but it still doesn't feel quite complete to me. I still liked the story, just wish there was more.
“Adjustment Team” (1954)Rift in reality! Ah, to be de-energized and adjusted. A mundane existence as a product of unseen manipulators. Story touches on themes of ethics, existentialism, and philosophy.**** perspicacity = the quality of having a ready insight into things; shrewdness. (p133)
The movie adaptation is so cool; I love the movie better. The movie has the elements of the book, but its story line is more creative and captivating.
2.5/5 stars
Una historia corta interesante.
Too short. Otherwise great.
Fun, but dated!
