https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12013.Excession
This is Kinda Disappointed, do you read me?- Hello Disappointed, this is Still Plenty of Good Bits.
I mean, how is a human going to describe beings a trillion times smarter than he is?- Maybe he shouldn't have tried?- Hello, I'm Too Many Subplots.
- I liked a lot of the story.
Give me an infinitesimal fraction of a second.- Well, I've already read it eight million times, and I still don't know.- Is this me talking, or you?- Oh hello, Cheap Shot, I was sure you'd turn up.
So what was it like?- Oh, I don't know.
please look for the infinity symbol tagged on our specially-marked OCP items.on aisle 1, back by popular demand, we are excited to present faction upon faction of Culture Minds, as embodied physically by their glorious Mind Ships!!!
BUY NOW - we guarantee you will soon find our special Affront products to be disappearing fast.___________________and now for the review: i liked it.
but i did love how this Culture novel was all about the fascinating Mind Ships and their various factions - so many of them, i had to write a list to keep track.
i love the Culture Minds.
I wanted intelligent galaxy-spanning space opera with a handful of baseline humans getting caught up in an existential conundrum that the far-superior AI Ships (and Main Characters) had to face.And we even get a BDO to spark an enormous intergalactic war.
It's like a master's course in Proving It Can Be Done despite all the doomsayers.
It's nothing like any kind of Space Opera I've ever read, again.
It's pretty damn awesome.I want to continue these Culture novels like something fierce, but I have so much on my plate already.
Apart from being a field day for BDO fans (Rendezvous With Rama and whatnot) this book also largely focused on The Minds, the series' sentient AI entities which are much more than supercomputers, among other things they are also the real movers and shakers of The Culture society where all the humans are well catered for with everything they could possibly want, leaving little motivation to get involved in politics or anything else of real importance.
Excession is an excellent read, well worth anybody's time, but for the moment my favorite Culture book is still The Player of Games.(4.5 stars)
There's a few Culture people, like Ulver Seich who lives a kind of Marie Antoinette life (something like that Sofia Coppola film) while also wanting to try adventurous things; the Affronters, playful yet sadistic problem area Culture has wrung its hands long about; the ships of course, and drones...
some of these that I met in the story I grew to care about, like the loner at Pittance storage thing.
The created worlds on ships were also rather amazing <3The story ends quite neatly, with some nice twists and with an epilogue that left me bouncy...
the world also reminded me of the one seen in Valérian And Laureline comic book series.
I was thrilled to get to write for Tor.com about one of the best science fiction books I've read, Excession by Iain M.
I'd had some reservations about the ending and the human arc initially, but I have to admit, almost a year later, Excession has slowly crept its way up to become the Culture book that, along with Player of Games, has stuck with me the most.
I’ll assume you already know the far-future decadent post-scarcity intergalactic empire of the Culture, dominated by its (mostly) benign AIs, known as Minds, and its trillions of citizens, some human and others more exotic.
It’s a great invention, a vast and limitless space for Banks to explore via the Culture’s Contact and Special Circumstances divisions, especially the interactions with non-Culture empires like the Idirans or, in the case of Excession, the Affront.Excession probably arose when Banks was sitting at his computer thinking – wouldn’t it be cool to have a Culture story centered on Minds rather than humans?
Encountering an example of was one of the risks you ran when you went a-wandering."It was a true slog to get into, but then somewhere around the time Byr Genar-Hofoen was on his way to the GSV Sleeper Service and that ship was busy waking up folk from its battle tableux, I found myself comfortable in Banks' most sprawling Culture novel (if taken in order) to date.It was difficult to keep everything straight and difficult to care what was going on in every thread of the tale, and the work doesn't really pay off in a big pay-off kinda way, but there are some positives to take away from the experience of reading Excession.For one, this is Banks' finest expression of the ship-mind (I have read nothing past Excession, so there may be better to come).
I love these books, but if you don't, I understand. The series' uniqueness is both awesome and offputting; the sort of stuff you wish people would write, but then you find excuses not to read. Reading the Culture novels is rarely the funnest thing you could be doing; but, when you're done, it can mean a whole paradigm shift - steps toward permanently dismantling whatever version of reality is currently trolling your existence.
I can see why people wouldn’t enjoy this novel, and even though I think I would have liked it with no previous Culture experience, reading other books has given me a deeper appreciation for what is happening here.Excession reminds me of children’s books where the main characters are all animals, and humans have very little to do with the plot.
In this respect, while neither of these human characters have a huge effect on dealing with the Excession, their peripheral actions greatly influenced one of the ships directly involved in the plot.There’s something very Shakespearean to all this, and I feel like I’ve seen this before in Banks’ writing.
I gave up at about page 50.After being introduced to a woman character who had chosen to be pregnant for 40 years, and then an emissary for a nearby alien civilization where the all-male representatives publicly brag about how many females they've impregnated through rape, I was seriously put off.Every woman I've ever met has been dying to be un-pregnant by the 8th month.
Who WANTS to be pregnant for FOUR DECADES?And no, I can't sympathize with someone who thinks it's just swell to go around raping people, and I don't care if it's an alien or not.
Banks has been grappling in all of his Culture novels, and Excession is perhaps his most explicit examination of that question to date, even though it came out 'way back in 1996.
It wasn't even the Laumeresque aliens known as the Affronters, though they were often played for laughs, and quite effectively too.No, the parts of this book I most appreciated in the end were the parts where Banks points out that even in the midst of a cornucopia of physical plenty, where death itself is an arbitrary and personal choice rather than an inevitability, human beings would in fact and quite beyond all reason find ways to be miserable.
Under those conditions, Excession has about a dozen damn legs, because this book takes half its length to feel like it's gaining any momentum.The cast of thousands approach doesn't really help.
It takes the air out of the fanciful world of the Culture, and makes them seem more like a future proxy for the British Empire, a bunch of ultra-powerful aristocrats enforcing their values on everyone they view as stepping out of line.
I respect the ambition that the Culture books show, but sadly, when the curtain is pulled back and their world rendered explicit, it can't help but disappoint.
I think I'll take a little break now from the Culture: not only do I want to ration it out a bit, but there's a sameness to the cleverness at the heart of these novels, so that reading three in quick succession makes me more able to figure out the plot -- and I actually like feeling that Banks is smarter than me, so I'll give it a rest before my next one...Anyway, I don't know how to talk about Excession, really.

It could not have felt like a page-turner otherwise.On the whole however, Excession is a very good story, a weird ass love story, a fairly decent alien story and an excellent introduction to how machine intelligences might work.
As part of this weird ass love story between a man who enjoys the company of a race of cruel brutes who resemble in character the slobering tentacled aliens of The Simpsons and a woman who has decided to remain pregnant for 40 years keeping that man's child in a state of suspended animation.As Culture stories go this one is about the ship Minds, what they say to each other and what they do when they encounter the unfathomable.
The story revolves around how the Culture and it's neighbors try to deal with this particular event.
Is it a natural event?
Add onto that tragic love stories, sadistic aliens, and revenge and you get one densely written, fantastically entertaining story.This is quite possibly one of my all time favorite books.
The conversations between the sentient ships alone could sustain me.
I often reread their conversations multiple times and get new layers of meanings each time.
Fortunately I love that kind of writing.
But if reading that kind of stuff is a chore for you avoid this book.
In the case of Excession much of the dialog is between Artificial Intelligences embodied in interstellar ships of various kinds, built by various species.
The organic protagonists are, compared to them, while easier to track, basically pawns in a grand, cosmic game beyond their ken.Indeed, the book as a whole is about limits: the limits of organic beings, individually and culturally; the limits of the Culture as representing the heights of sentient achievement; even the limits of the artificial intelligences which rule the Culture and command its ships.
The full list counts ten titles: Consider Phlebas, 1987; The Player of Games,1988; Use of Weapons, 1990; The State of the Art, 1991; Excession, 1996; Inversions, 1998; Look to Windward,2000; Matter,2008; Surface Detail, 2010; The Hydrogen Sonata, 2012.So Excession is #5 in the series.
This is a lot less dark than say Use of Weapons and certainly there is no tragedy as in Look to Windward.
What we have is a straight forward adventure Genar-Hofoen who lives with the Affront and aggressive expanding civilisation and their bid to claim a space artifact called the Excession.
The problem with getting older and facing mortality is that you realize you won't be able to read all the books you want to.
Now that's part of the problem with this book, with so many minds around and only a few really distinctive I found it hard to keep track of who was in which conspiracy.
Plus the humans and the alien species all had severe character flaws.Is it possible to fall in love with a Mind?
Really good input into the Culture world. A little different mindset here...while we do have a couple human points of view, most of the maneuvering, backstory and action in with some of the Ship AI minds...some of them so Elder and powerful they have become eccentric (basically doing whatever they want)....this is a new perspective!
I'm not sure whether it was good or bad writing that frequently in the story a bunch of incomprehensible text would go by and then one of the human characters would just outright ask "what is going on" and we would get a sort of cliff notes version of what had just transpired.Banks is great at writing aliens and alien diplomacy and I thought the Affront were a fine addition to his pantheon.
(hide spoiler)]"Excession" is an interesting story about an "Outside context problem" where the Culture mighty as they are, are like ants to the next class of beings.
After having been burned by the likes of The Martians, I decided not to sully my opinion of the series so early on.The titular Excession is another name for what the Culture calls an Outside Context Problem (OCP), which is an encounter with an alien civilization so much more advanced than your own that you have no way of conceptualizing their technology within your culture's (Culture's) framework.
No, you're not expected to understand what an Energy Grid is, even after Banks goes to great lengths to explain it in analogous terms, but it basically is the substrate of reality against which faster-than-light engines push.Unique to this entry of the Culture series, Excession is mostly about the hyper-intelligent Minds which operate/are the ships on which so much of the Culture's daily life occurs.
Oh, Excession. I've hated you, I've loved you, and I've been wildly frustrated by you. I guess the best I can say is that every reread brings me something new.I think it's fair to say that I love the plot line with the Minds - finally getting to see how they interact, plot, rationalise and manoeuvre - and could cheerfully do without most of the humans, in spite of a lingering respect for the broad strokes of the Dajeil / Byr subtext. Full thoughts.
This book is not even half as clever as it thinks it is. Poorly written characters and tedious AI chatter.
Somehow it never feels like a cheap trick or easy cop-out, but the Affront really are an affront to the Culture's sense of morals, and the GSV Sleeper Service is not only storing people who just want to sleep but (view spoiler)[is a sleeper agent under deep, long-term, cover as an Eccentric ship (hide spoiler)].At the same time Banks provides a lot more layers into the world-building of his Culture series.
Their being mentioned feels slightly odd, like they could get involved in the story if they wanted to but they choose not to.
Banks, and it surpassed the others in terms of content, writing style, and sheer imagination on a grand scale.Certain portions of this book are awe-inspiring-- you'll know what I'm talking about after reading.
The events of this novel take place on such a grand scale that the human affairs described seem almost humorously quaint and unimportant.
Nonetheless, Banks is a master at character handling, and he weaves the tapestry of this novel with both the macrocosmically huge and the microcosmically human.
What made this book different from others I have read from Banks was the focus on "Minds" -a term used for the massive intellects that form the basis of the "culture galactic society"How these minds struggled to cope with an "out of context" situation where their technological superiority was flip/flopped into a situation where they were confronted with an apparent entity vastly superior to them was a fascinating case study into how humanity itself might behave when confronted with a similar situation.Banks successfully crafted "minds" that were essentially inter-stellar space-faring craft that I genuinely came to care about as very 3-dimensional characters.
The Minds can't help but play with their pets, but they seem largely very benevolent, though sometimes misguided.
The Culture lacks for nothing, could essentially collectively decide to Ascend and attain whatever Nirvana turned out to be.
Individually and collectively, they would seem to have almost limitless power over their own existences.
The Minds are essentially demigods, and can, themselves Ascend, but with all that plenty and power, living is still pretty much living.
Loved the writing, loved the names of the Minds and how they communicate, loved the complexity of the stories.
This is the 3rd book in the Culture series I've read and once again, it didn't disappoint.
Basically the premise is that an unknown entity has been discovered somewhere in the known universe; has done something with the ship that discovered it and set a course of action that might result in a full-scale galactic war.
I enjoyed the stories of the ships (basically animate beings in their own right), even their names are interesting and fun (e.g. the Sleeper Service, the Fate Amenable to Change, the Honest Mistake, etc).
The universe of the Culture is one of the most unique world's I've ever read about.
Excession is the 4th book in the Culture universe/ series.
