https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201146.Little_Bear
I missed a lot of the classics as a child. I'm making up for it now. I love the simple artwork of Maurice Sendak. He was so gifted. This is four stories about little bear that all tie together at the end for beginning readers. Little bear plays in the snow, has a birthday party, goes to the moon and goes to bed. There is simple fun in these stories from a different time.The nephew enjoys Little bear most, but they both were interested in this story.
This book provided one of my most memorable and most treasured moments in the classroom this last summer.Me: "So how would you get to the moon?"Entering first grade student: "Well, I would take the bus to the end of the line and get a transfer to the moon."Only in San Francisco! :)
I actually was more than a bit embarrassed at having to read a book such as this at age ten, seeing that I was reading advanced children's literature in German, but it really did improve my English and both Else Minarik's narrative and Maurice Sendak's illustrations were just so incredibly sweet and evocative that I fell in love with Little Bear.
Even in the story where she tells Little Bear that he really does not need a coat, that his pelt is a coat, she herself is fully clothed (and in a full length dress).
I think my favorite story is the one where Little Bear wants to fly to the moon, but all the stories are good (I remember being especially enchanted, as a little girl, with the one where Little Bear gets his coat) and I appreciate how the love between mother and child is reinforced through each.I also read A Kiss for Little Bear some time ago and I think I might actually prefer it to this short story collection, but I remain a loving Little Bear fan and plan to continue the series, feeling confident I will enjoy them all.
First book I read by myself. My level of reading is still about the same. I point to the words and speak the story out loud, struggling with anything more than two syllables. I still scribble in books too with crayons. My Mum now refuses to read this with me at bedtime. Well she is 82 after all!Birthday soup will remain part of my inner child forever.
Probably my favorite children's book of all time. I'm guessing it's somewhat boring for children but it is a really good right before nap time book. I cannot how beautiful Little Bear's relationship to Mother Bear is. Maurice Sendak captured it perfectly and I love how gentle and fun Mother Bear's responses to Little Bear are. I don't care if I sound like a sissy.
First book I remember reading.
So I gave it 5 stars.
I remember sitting in my bedroom, wanting Daddy to read to me.
I convinced him to get off the couch and come sit on the bed with me and read.
So he did but I made the mistake of reading to him instead of waiting for him to read it to me and he said "Well if you can read this, why did you need me in here?".
I should have played dumb for just a little bit longer.
.I wish I still had my old copies of these books.
This was the only book I read over and over again that it got torn apart and right now I am pretty sure I don't have it anymore but I will probably go out and buy again. I adored Little Bear, both the book AND the TV show on Nick Jr. when I was younger. My grandmother was the only one who understood my love for the bear and was the one who bought me the book and I read it countless times. I will never forget this book. Thank you, Minarik, for creating Little Bear.
Sweet and gentle.
I loved this book as a child, and now JP does too (and Birthday Soup is our mutual favorite). It is oft-demanded at bedtime.
Little Bear is nice and sweet and funny. My kids really enjoyed this. There is a lot of repetition in the text so beginning readers can gain confidence in reading faster.
I'm sure I read this as a child, but I remembered the illustrations more than the stories themselves.Jan 2012 update: Our youngest brought this book home from her first grade class as part of her reading homework.
This story was selected as one of the books for the November 2012 - Classic Picture Book Characters reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.September 2016 update: reread this book and used it for one of my papers for my children's literature class, as part of my MLIS program (school library specialization).
This is a perfect book.
Mother Bear and Little Bear could be any mother and any child conversing about ordinary things such as what to wear; what to make on one's birthday; taking an imaginary trip to the moon; making wishes that will not come true (sit on cloud/fly; find Viking boat; find tunnel to China; go to a castle, in a big red car); and making a wish that will come true -- wishing that Mother Bear would tell a story to him.
What happens next is what makes the book perfect: Mother Bear recounts three of the prior stories.
Else Holmelund Minarik's simple stories and Maurice Sendak's warm illustrations make Little Bear a favorite among beginning readers.
(Goodreads Summary)Little Bear (Little Bear #1) by Else Holmelund Minarik, illustrated by Maurice Sendak is a chapter book with 4 simple stories.
The text has lots of repetition, there's a clear background for the text and Sendak's classic illustrations add to the story.
Highlights of the book are a homemade space helmet and a surprise birthday cake.For beginning readers with experience with reading sentences, and fans of Little Bear and Sendak.
This is a chapter book.
The first chapter is about Little Bear wanting something to put on, but he realizes that in the end, he only wants his own fur.
He thinks his mom forgot about his birthday, so he decides to make Birthday Soup for everyone when they come over.
Once they started eating the Birthday Soup, his mom came in with a giant cake.
The next chapter is called "Little Bear Goes to the Moon".
This is about Little Bear trying to go to the moon.
Eventually, he realizes he only wants a story from his mom.
I would recommend this book because it is really funny.
I still remember the thrill of reading this book by myself when I was about five or six. Little Bear is laid out in chapters, albeit very short ones, in which he visits his grandparents, makes a birthday meal, and other brief activities, with little quirky notes throughout. It is a very enjoyable little book. Maurice Sendak's illustrations add immeasurably to its value.
One of my favorite books from my childhood.
This was one of my all time favorite books as a kid, and I was delighted to read it to my own children. Long live Little Bear!
Illustrator ProjectThese simple and detailed illustrations help to tell the sweet stories of a Mother Bear and her Little Bear.
My favorite is the first story in this book where Little Bear is cold outside playing in the snow and Mother Bear makes him a coat, a hat, and snow pants to keep him warm.
He is still cold and realizes that all he really needed was his own fur coat to be warm!
I remember reading this book to myself when I was 4 or 5.
These stories are easy to understand and read but still hold an adventurous quality.
For me, it’s because of the loving relationship which exists between Little Bear and Mother Bear, and the playful nature of the tales about them.The blurb on the publisher’s site reads: “Meet Little Bear, a friend to millions of children.
When Little Bear asks for a fur coat, Mother Bear removes all his outdoor clothes and points out, “There is the fur coat.”Other times the playful nature of the four stories comes through in the imagination of Minarik’s characters.
Each time that little bear comes inside because he is cold, his mother gives him another article of clothing to put on to keep warm when he is playing outside.
When reading this story, I kept thinking about the young students at the school (and my own children as well), and how they don't always like to take the time to dress in all of their winter layers.
This book provides a reminder of why all of the layers that the students wear outside in the winter are needed to keep warm.Another theme that a teacher could use this book to help teach is contentment and being happy with what you have.
I recently read this book with my son.
I remember reading these books with my youngest brother.
My son and I read this book alternating pages.
And we have read the book through twice now, and will likely read it many times more.
There is something so compelling about simple fun stories that my son loves.
And love this book he did.
This volume has 4 shorter stories:What Will Little Bear Wear?Birthday SoupLittle Bear Goes to the MoonLittle Bear's WishThese books are geared to readers 4-8 years of age.
At 8 my son could read the whole book but loves sharing stories.
My son really loved this book.
Little Bear asking his mom to make him all of those clothes and then just playing in his fur anyway was silly but entertaining.
Mother Bear surprised him with a cake and he was so happy.
I also liked it when he talked about flying to the moon and Mother Bear played along up until he wanted lunch.
I loved that he wished for all of those crazy things and really only wanted a story.
I also liked the fact that she just summed up all of the things he did in the book as the story.
These were drawn at an early time in his career and the images and softer and darling (not a word that Sendak would appreciate.)This book is broken into four stories of little bear and his adventures.
Delightfully surprised, he is given a large cake with candles.In the third story little bear makes a space helmet and tries to go to the moon.
Tumbling and falling, he returns to home where he eats lunch and is secure in the love of his mother.The final story contains lush drawings of the wishes of little bear.
While the stories change, the constant is a wonderful mother bear who provides love and security for little bear.
It is an "I Can Read" book, so it's ultimately meant to be read by your little one as opposed to the adult.
Because of this, there is a lot of repetitive phrasings or words, to make it easier for a child.I was initially unimpressed by this book.
I had only read the first chapter and I just Little Bear was stupid.
On another page, Little Bear says that he wishes to have a big red car.
The illustrations had been showing his wishes, but the car in the picture is black.
An 'I Can Read' book from the late fifties, it contains several stories and interactions between Little Bear and Mother Bear.
I love the relationship between the two, Mother knowing enough to tease her son a little and Little Bear encapsulating that gentle yet eager sense of inquisitiveness that we see in the young.
When asked by Random House to change her bear to a human, she stated: “...all children of all colors would be reading the stories,” Ms. Minarik told The Star News of Wilmington, N.C., in 2006.
“All children love animals.
Little Bear is cold and he wants to put something on, so Mother Bear makes him a hat, coat, and pants but Little Bear is still cold.
So Mother Bear asks if he wants a fur coat, and yes he said, so off came the hat, coat, and pants, because underneath the clothes he had his very own fur coat.
The simple but well done illustrations along with Little Bear's antic make this a fun story to for all to read.Learning Experience:This activity will help young children learn the sequence of getting dressed.
Thisk classic beginner reader is best for the child who has been reading for about a year or so.
So, depending on how eager the child is, it would be possible to read independently at about first grade.
My son has just reread it at the middle of second grade with complete ease but great enjoyment.
It is a great first chapter book.
There are 4 chapters: 1) What will Little Bear Wear?; 2)Birthday Soup; 3) Little Bear Goes to the Moon; 4)Little Bear's Wish.
Makes a perfect bedtime book because it's calm and soothing anyway, but the last story, "Little Bear's Wish" happens at bedtime.
Summary:Little Bear is a classic and another one of my childhood favorites.
Each book contains four stories.
The stories are simple, comforting, and playful.
Although the stories have plots to them, these stories are all about Little Bear's interactions with Mother Bear.
Mother Bear is very gentle with her little cub and always seems to be there when he needs her; this is what draws little readers into the Little Bear books.
This book's simple text and classic drawings are just right for beginning readers.Curricular Connections:Use during guided reading, then culminate the reading with a Reader's Theater production of the book.
The stories in this book describe one day in "Little bear's" life and each chapter seems to get progressively more difficult.
The first chapter is very repetitive and the sentences are brief.
While this may not be the most ideal to read aloud, I imagine it helps a child gain confidence when trying to read it themselves.
The second chapter contains less repetition and slightly longer sentences, and the last two chapters have more complex story lines that are even less repetitive but still short and simple enough to read.
The illustrations are wonderful and adorable.
