https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14572.Peace_Is_Every_Step
I started to read his writings because of my efforts to employ mindfulness meditation to deal with anxiety and fear.
You Are Alive," which presents mindfulness principles in the context of everyday life in the West; "Transformation and Healing," which drew my attention in this reading for Thich Nhat Hanh's gentle and insightful discussion of how to best deal with destructive emotions through meditation; and "Peace is Every Step," in which he provides an overview of how we can all approach peace work with help from meditation.This is an excellent book for novice meditators.
I first read this book in college, when my friend Maran told me it was her favorite book ever.
It's a little book, and I finished it quickly, and while I really liked it, not much of it stuck with me.
It wasn't until I read it again that I realized how genius it really is.
I'm never going to be a Buddhist monk, or even a proper Buddhist, but Thich Nhat Hanh talks about slowing down, connecting with the moment, and how to deal with stress and negative emotions in such a loving, gentle way that it feels like anyone could do it.
Peace is every step that you makewhen you take your brother's handand give him a plate of foodor a handful of clothingAnd the peace is therewhen you shelter him from the stormwhether it is in his heart or on the landPeace is every step when you breathe in and when you breathe outnot thinking of your angeronly of solutions.And when you shelter yourself from the stormyou shelter all bygiving them a way to continue on.
I sat in the meditation room waiting for a dharma talk to begin when Thich Nhat Hanh walked into the room.
He walked in peacefulness, and when he talked it is was only of kindness.I never saw him again for I only went several more times to his monastery, and I never knew when he would be back in town.
'when you plant lettuce, if it does not grow well, you don't blame the lettuce.
you look into the reasons it is not doing well.
you never blame the lettuce.
yet if we have problems with our friends or our family, we blame the other person.
but if we know how to take care of them, they will grow well, like lettuce.
blaming has no positive effect at all, nor does trying to persuade using reason and arguments.
no blame, no reasoning, nor arguments, just understanding.
it can look and read like something a little embarrassing-- an easy self-help manual, or treacly pop buddhism.
Even if it confirms what you already know, it is a pleasurable read and a beautiful inspiration to actively appreciate the positive aspects of living.Like most other Buddhist works, it is centered around living in the present.
Having the peace of mind to do this in a calm, well-executed fashion is tough, but when you come upon challenges like this, it is comforting to have this simple yet powerful book to lay the framework for some good meditation sessions."Peace Is Every Step" came at a good time for me.
At this point in my life where everything seems to be in upheaval, it's nice to remember that I can decide to be centered whenever I want.
He'll go on and on with stories about tree-hugging or metaphors involving raw potatoes; he'll tell you how to eat mindfully, even how to breathe and walk; he'll suggest looking closely at a flower and to see the sun as your heart.
Through his cute stories and compassionate admonitions, he gradually builds up to his philosophy of interbeing, the notion that none of us is separately, but rather that we inter-are.
Suffice it to say, that after reading Peace Is Every Step, you'll never look at a plastic bag the same way again, and you may even develop a penchant for hugging trees.
This is the second Thich Nhat Hanh book I read in a a month, and I have to say I like his writing.
It doesn’t cover as much ground, but what it does cover, it does so beautifully.He talks about his view of life, activism, and Buddhism without being overly preachy.
And he also talks about his life, and he has lead an interesting one.
Peace is every step is an idea that is central to his views on life.
However a person gets to the point of letting their anger do the driving, it too often ends up making things even worse.
Some of Thich Nhat Hanh's writings are mostly informational, like Old Path, White Clouds, his biography of the Buddha.
In each short section of this book, Thich Nhat Hanh tells a story, or seeks to describe an experience to which the reader may relate.
Without the "non-paper" elements, the paper would not be.Contemplation of a tangerine is another favorite: one day Thich Nhat Hanh gave some children tangerines.
Finally, they were invited to taste it.I have eaten a tangerine with Thich Nhat Hanh, and if the exercise is entered into sincerely, it is a mind-blowing experience.

I can't tell if he sounds "pop" because pop-buddism followed him or if he is advocating "buddism lite." He ideas are certainly beautiful and his personal history is amazing (though a few less references by his followers to his nomination for a nobel peace prize would be welcome). My problem comes from the fact that I'm not sure I could be around him or those who follow him for long without going batshit crazy. Maybe i am not that peaceful
I am not much of one for mindfulness and meditation. But this audible book contains some beautiful language and suggestions about how to live life. It is something to be aware of your breathing in and breathing out. It is something to be aware that everything is part of everything else. The book is not complicated and the chapters are short but the thinking is deep. There is a challenge here about some different ways to view the world and your role in it.
The first part of this book discusses the the basics of meditation and what mindfulness is.
The version of me from a year ago would've been resentful towards Hanh's writing, insisting that no one can demand this sort of behavior from me if the rest of the world is so terrible.
As for the rest of the world, how I deal with conflict and how I impact others can be improved through my peaceful behavior.
The third part of the book discusses the interconnected-ness of a human being to other human beings and other aspects of the world.
In the beginning of my studying of Buddhism, I quickly came to appreciate Hanh as a wise Buddhist Monk.
I was excited at first to begin reading and learning, but quickly I realized that this wasn't the book for me.
In which case this book is 4 stars.If you're like me and you're seeking to learn more about Buddhism or Hanh's teachings beyond the most basic theories of mindfulness, this book may be not be for you.
In which case this book is 1 star.
A life changing book. Thick Nhat Hagh’s ‘Peace Is Every Step: The Path of Mindfulness In Everyday Life’ is an extraordinary book, offering the reader thoughts on how to look within oneself, outside oneself and beyond oneself. He shares thoughts on how we can live in peace and harmony despite the uncomfortable emotions we experience on a daily basis. I love this book so much that I plan on buying several copies for all of my family members to read. Get ready to be transformed!
I loved this gem of a book. Each tiny chapter give you something to reflect upon for weeks. It is about finding peace and happiness in your life and sharing that with the world. He talks about the importance of mindfulness so you can be aware of your inter-relatedness in the entire universe. This book was a Mother's Day gift one year ago and it added greater peace and understanding to my life.
A beautiful little book, this is.Few people would argue if you told them life feels like chaos sometimes.
Stopping to breathe and find peace is, in today’s world, almost unheard of.
A little focus on my breath to calm that cyclone is well worth the price of a few minutes.
When I breathe and find peace, I’m able to be a better human creature, a better social worker, and a better me.
Thich Nhat Hanh tells us that this is all possible if we take a minute to slow our roll, inhale some air, and reacquaint ourselves with beautiful, terrifying, oh-so-vast Reality.
A book that I think would make a difference in our modern day civilization if only more people would read it.
We are reminded to breathe deeply and learn to be at peace and experience joy with the present moment.
By remembering to stop and having a look at all of these amazing blessings, our lives improve dramatically, no pay raise involved, no new sports car needed, or no fancy jewelry required.
The key to happiness, and therefore to collective peace, then, is simply creating a daily habit of breathing and noticing how fortunate we are.
This is the gift that this book gave me.
Thich Nhat Hanh is an inspirational soul. This book is so simply profound. Interspersed with lovely requests, plain English meditations for ordinary people, and tremendously powerful short anecdotes about his life experiences, this book grabs the roots of peace, and plants them in your soul. I highly recommend this book to everyone.
Peace and happiness are available if I can only quiet my distracted thinking long enough to come back to the present moment and notice the blue sky, the child's smile, the beautiful sunrise.
The book is simply teaching me how to just live, and live in the present moment.
What better way to start the day than with a smile?
My smile here affirms my determination and awareness to live in peace and joy.
Then he teaches me a number of breathing techniques.
Breathing out, I smile.
My appointment with life is in the present moment, hence, peace is every step of the way.
Thich Nhat Hanh writes this as if we were completely without any knowledge of Buddhism.
I have studied meditation and it is normally taught by people who complicate the process so they can teach you the "proper" way to do it.
Hanh teaches that simple breathing is the key.
One who has studied Buddhism for years gets as much out of this book because without the complicated mythology and confusing behavior taught by some dharma teachers, one gets to hear the dharma in a way that ultimately made more sense to me in a few hours than I had learned in years of study with some teachers.
We want to think about the person who is making us angry, to think about his hateful aspects - his rudeness, dishonesty, cruelty, maliciousness, and so on.
His dishonesty and hatefulness may be real, imaginary, or exaggerated, but, in fact, the root of the problem is the anger itself, and we have to come back and look first of all inside ourselves (p.
120-21).When you first learn of something like that [rape of a young girl by a pirate], you get angry at the pirate.
If you or I were born today in those fishing villages, we may become sea pirates in twenty-five years.
I'm never going to be a person without desires and hopes and dreams that is content and happy just to sit on the grass and stare at a flower, thank you very much.Well, that hasn't changed.
The mindful living described in this book does not mean living with no desires.
And accept that there can be no flowers without dirt and garbage.
It's a book about attaining the peace of mind every single one of us needs from time to time.There's a lot to learn from this book, even if you don't decide to throw away all your worldly possessions and go live in a hermitage.
At this time I was in a place in my life where many dreams and goals were becoming uncertain and life was beginning to become a little negative but all changed after reading this book.As I began to read through the first chapter, I was captivated by Thich Nhat Hanh's wisdom, writing style and language.Because of this wonderful book, I am learning everyday in life that we as humans take so much for granted but should try and be grateful for all our blessings.
Thank you Thich Nhat Hanh, for your writings and guidance gives me strength and inspiration, you are a life changing gentleman and author.
Aside from prayer and music, Thich Nhat Hanh is my go-to guy for finding that peaceful, still place in the center of the storm.
This book is thin, easy to read, and practical.
Written for newbies, not experts, this book is handy and accessible.
I have read several of his books, including an interesting comparison between the teachings of the Christ and the teachings of the Buddha, Living Buddha, Living Christ, and a wonderful picture book for helping children overcome anger and fear, A Pebble for Your Pocket.
Thich Nhat Hanh's Peace is Every Step is by far my favorite of all the books written by gurus and thinkers.
This book has changed my perspective on my perspective.
He has, through his compassionate and down-to-earth dialogue, allowed me to understand and be compassionate toward my own Catholic faith, myself, and everyone around me.
Thich Nhat Hanh does not offer techniques or ideologies, he simply presents the world as it really is.
What I love about this book is that there AREN'T ANY elusive Zen-like phrases that leave the reader puzzled.
Thich Nhat Hanh speaks brilliantly without mystifying the reader in spiritual jargon.
Thich Nhat Hanh's older book that I've read about six times.
Although it is light in content, and a quick read, and covers subjects such as cooking potatoes, the book is purposefully driving the message that we all are inter-connected and that we should strive to live our lives for others and away from the 'me-driven' ego that western society is so caught up in.
Peace Is Every Step reminds me of Dr. Albert Schweitzer's (medical missionary in Congo and recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize) treatise, "The Ethics for Reverence For Life" that he published in 1936.
This monk's practical application on mindfulness and meditation was more than just thought provoking. His excercises really helped me gain more peace and control in my life. It was also the first introduction to Budhaism that made sense to me. His references to Jesus Christ are sweet though a bit mistranslated. I can't wait to read more by him.
I loved this book. LOVED IT! Some of it is a bit out there, but still I think it is a book people should read with an open mind. So much good as already come in my life from remembering the things he talks about. Cant really beat that, can you?
I loved this book. LOVED IT! Some of it is a bit out there, but still I think it is a book people should read with an open mind. So much good as already come in my life from remembering the things he talks about. Can´t really beat that, can you?
A short mediation on peace. It's not the most practical meditation book out there, but Which That Hanh's voice is powerful and beautiful. It's a nice reminder to always be present.
As I was reading the last page of Peace is Every Step, I was reminded of one of the few times in my life I was actually fully present.
My mother and I walked outside together, undoubtedly at my urging, to watch a phenomenon that my four year old self thought mesmerizing - the big street lights flickering to life as the sun set and the darkness of the night rolled in.
The thing that made it powerful is was that I was totally present in that moment and nothing existed but the two of us, the summer night and that buzzing giant old street lamp.
