https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65549.Hostage_to_the_Devil
Martin seeks neither to mock nor to exploit the suffering, and seems to be a sincere and likable fellow.Having said that, I doubted the professional decisions made in many of the case studies in this book, and felt bewildered that these possessed folks were declared mentally stable by psychiatrists and/or psychologists who assessed them.
It is also said in the literature on this topic that a person can be both mentally ill and under demonic influence which would presumably be much harder to sort out.Malachi Martin writes a compelling set of life stories that whisks aside the quotidian veil that surrounds our daily lives to reveal an unseen world that he believes has the potential to affect us profoundly, for better or worse.
The other is Hostage to the Devil: The Possession and Exorcism of Five Contemporary Americans by Malachi Martin.Whether or not you are a skeptic in demonic matters, this book will probably still send chills up your spine.
In my opinion, the two most disturbing cases in the book are The Virgin and the Girl-Fixer and Uncle Ponto and the Mushroom-Souper.
In it, Martin and Father Mark (the exorcist in the "Uncle Ponto" case) are discussing the fate of exorcists:It was a source of some amazement to [Mark's] close associates and superiors that he did not go the way of most exorcists.
I have done quite a bit of research on possession for a story, and I can honestly say that this book actually scared me.
I can list on one hand the amount of things in the world that scare me and this book easily made the list.
Dr. Martin delivers on his harrowing tales of true demonic possession.
Although published in 1976, this book remains the premier book on demonic possession today.
If you're curious, or doing a bit of research, this is one book that you should not overlook.
I'm a Christian, I'd suggest any and all beliefs be based in Biblical scripture.If you are not a Christian or find belief in actual spiritual evil to be naive or otherwise contemptible then we of course disagree and I doubt you'd see this book as much more than a diversion.
I personally (based on the Biblical accounts) believe that evil (Satan, demons...) have no power over God and any counter to it/them comes from God. I began to have serious concerns when it became plain he saw the "struggle" to evict an "evil spirit" as centering on the exorcist and described the exorcist as being put up as a "hostage".
I found this book in the footnotes to "People of the Lie" and found it to be another intriguing page-turner, but clearly something that I would not recommend just anyone to read.
Some of the accounts are so diabolical that they descend into a depth of evil most of us would never even conceive of; and, quite frankly, are better off not even being exposed to, even in a book.
Conversely, one benefit of the book is gaining of insight to discern the characteristics often exhibited by those who have fallen sway to very heavy levels of evil enslavement.
This book is like an “X” rated version of C.S Lewis’ "The Screwtape Letters" … on steroids!
I simply couldn't read it anymore.
It had come highly recommended, and I understand why (the subject matter), but the author's hamfisted narrative style, along with the insanely judgemental attitude (unless you are straight, god-fearing, and do nothing but missionary sex, then praise Jesus afterward, you are a ripe candidate for possession by the devil), I couldn't hack the endless pages of history of how each person fell slowly under the spell of Satan and how the man that ultimately exorcised the possessed was a flawed but righteous man that overcame his past.Nope.
Simply couldn't.You could say I didn't have enough faith.You could say the debbil made me do it.Or you could say it's just a crappily written book.
I was expecting something a lot less interesting than what I got.I believe the book dates from the 70s.
It's interesting to see how the attitudes of that time period clearly inform all the possessions.
But where as nowadays I think this type of book would be a lot cruder, probably showing simple tales where the devil tempts people into having abortions, being feminist, environmentalist or in any way liberal, the victims in this book go through much more intersting, subtle struggles with earlier ideas.
The priests seduced by a then popular book about Jesus as the evolutionary pinnacle of nature.
Malachi martin, before going into further detail on the cases, gives very useful information that enlightens the reader.
For example, he specifically details the understanding of demonic possession in the beginning of the book in a section called “A Brief Handbook of Exorcism.” He states, “The truth is that all three- the possessed, the possessing spirit, and the exorcist- bear a close relation to the reality of life and to its meaning as all of us experience it each and every day.” With that phrase, he is preparing the reader for the comparison of demonic possession to reality.
Then, I read this book and literally scared myself so much I was terrified to be in the house alone.
If it matters, I think the first exorcism was the worst in terms of profanity and general terror.
Think real life.
*shudder*At times, however, Martin managed to bore the pants off of me while simultaneously scaring the bejesus out of me.
This bore-factor combined with the Catholic guilt combined with the fear of becoming possessed at all times has lead me to give this book a paltry two stars despite some really great moments.Will I be revisiting this book in the future?
For the third time, HELL NO.
As a word of caution, this is not the book on which to start reading Martin.
With that being said, this book is an astounding look into a very dark spiritual world.
One must decide, first, whether one believes such things as Martin writes about are real or fictional.
I think that if one did not believe, this book would be a waste of time, but then I may be wrong as there is so much to be gleaned, either in a secular way or in a spiritual way.
My only word of sincere warning is that these are dark tales indeed.
Well, the fascination ended. I got stuck around page 250 and found myself picking up other books instead. After months of it sitting on my bedside table, untouched, I think it's time to throw in the towel. It really grabbed me at first, but I just ran out of steam on it. I'm still fascinated by the strong belief people have in demonic possession; if only I didn't have so many other good-looking books on my shelf waiting to be read....
Not an easy book to get through, but perhaps one of the best reads on demonic possession I have ever experienced. Other books just seem to say the same things, almost like the authors have not done any research. This author was an exorcist and that alone sold me. If you have any interest at all in this subject this is one book you can not afford to miss. Buy it!
This book is basically a treatise on exorcism practiced by the Catholic Church, consisting of five c
My first Malachi Martin book/experience ... it' is exactly how I pictured it.
(Martin is not going to answer the question, for example, of why he and the Catholic church believe graven images of Christ crucified should have any particular effect in direct spiritual warfare when such things are forbidden by commandment of God in the first place.) It leaves one wondering if some of these Catholic exorcists are themselves being played by the adversary they seem convinced they are fighting so hard to defeat.That all being said, the book does manage to raise some interesting issues for those willing to get through the entire reading.
This observation refers to the original purchased and read in 1976. I obtained this book after having read     William Peter BlattyI believe I remember seeing Malichi Martin on the tonight show where he was discussing the release of his book. It's been awhile ago but I believe he brought a audio tape of an actual exorcism as well. And that was definitely enough to raise the hackles on the back of my neck.It was enough to bring the possibility of EVIL existing as a separate entity into my thought
I obtained this book after having read 
William Peter BlattyI believe I remember seeing Malichi Martin on the tonight show where he was discussing the release of his book.
And that was definitely enough to raise the hackles on the back of my neck.It was enough to bring the possibility of EVIL existing as a separate entity into my thoughts .
if one is a believer in a higher power - what is the purpose of EVIL in the world??
And if you believe that GOD created all that we are .
didn't IT also create EVIL as well??
I would recommend it if you are interested in seeing EVIL in action in the world.
I had never heard of Malachi Martin until I read M.
Scott Peck's excellent Glimpses of the Devil.
He talked about Father Martin as his mentor and teacher, and so when I saw this at a book sale I picked it up.I know that nonfiction writers who are dealing with sensational topics try to tone things down, but this was boring...or, really, banal.
I couldn't even finish it.
It just went on and on and on, without really going anywhere.
The whole work is so intensely Catholic that it's irrelevant to anyone from any other background.
It's both oddly dry and weirdly esoteric, and...I just couldn't focus.
Never thought I'd ever say I found a book on demons and exorcism boring, but I have.
You have to work hard at making stories of supposed real-life possessions and church-sanctioned exorcism mind-numbingly tedious, but Malachi Martin's "Hostage to the Devil" succeeded.
This is allegedly a nonfiction book, so recount the facts and quit the purple prose and repetitive elaboration about things that drag the stories down.
Explain your point in several sentences, not ten pages that ramble in indulgent prose and flowery words plucked from a thesaurus.
Gimme the facts!
Many people found this book scary, disturbing, and unsettling.
I have some weird fascinations-- for instance, I am fascinated by possession and exorcism, and I have no idea why.
I think it's because I believe in the concept of "evil" being some sort of entity that exists in the universe (in the form of the devil and his demons) and I guess I believe that given the right person and the right circumstances, this evil can possess people.
This idea, to me, is far scarier than zombies or vampires or werewolves.
I've read a bunch of books about the subject, and this book is by far the BEST book on the subject.
I would like to start off by saying that this book is VERY well written, and that I found Martin's narrative style an excellent fit for this kind of creative nonfiction. HOWEVER, I also felt that a lot of the stories he tells, along with how he tells them, are too heavily influenced/biased by Catholic politics & dogma ...which kind of bugged me through my reading of the book.
The fact that Martin himself is a Catholic theologian sheds a little doubt on what are extremely extraordinary accounts, and the embellished prose likewise detracts from a factual tone. Yet, taken at its word, this book forms a downright disturbing record of modern demonic possession and exorcism. Skeptics will probably not be convinced, but believers will be intrigued and, at points, terrified.
Very slow paced. I kept nodding off while reading this.
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/offbea...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lv78M...
The first story was pretty good. After that, I found myself skipping ahead and skimming because the story was slow and just wasn't doing anything for me.
The first hundred page was exciting and interesting because the pace was fast. When he began talking about Marianne, that's when the story lost inertia and dragged, which seemed like forever to the point I completely lost interest. On page 171 had to toss the book to pickup another book. I hate when authors do that, when they have a story tell which can be told in 25 pages? The flat line to Marianne's story was becoming like a 500 page ordeal of intolerable boredom. I had hopes of reading this book all the way, Marianne ruined it for me.
Malachi Martin's novel is a piece of non-fiction - true stories of possession and exorcism.Martin describes these exclusively contemporary accounts as "dramatic illustrations of the way in which personal and intelligent evil moves cunningly along the lines of contemporary fads and interests, and within the usual bounds of experience of ordinary men and women.” That’s cool.
Martin treats his subject very seriously and addresses the doubters: "Church authorities always insist on thorough examinations of the person brought to them for Exorcism, an examination conducted by qualified medical doctors and psychiatrists.""Certainly, many who claim to be possessed or whom others so describe are merely the victims of some mental or physical disease.
and ultimately despicable.Hostage to the Devil is purportedly non-fiction (perhaps in the way that Bruce Chatwin's Songlines and In Patagonia were originally passed off as travel narrative and history, when it fact they were largely cooked up.) Martin, an Irish ex-Jesuit living in New York, claims to have based these narratives off audio recordings of Catholic exorcisms in the '60s and early '70s.
Los cambios más dramáticos vienen cuando se acepta la invasión o posesión parcial, los cambios afectan los juicios,los principios y la presentación externa del individuo cambia.La víctima pierde el control de sí mismo y llega al punto de perder conocimiento de las acciones que realiza y es através de los amigos y familiares que se busca ayuda.El exorcista se presenta como rehén ante el espíritu maligno del poseído.El poseído debe soportar intensos y agotadores ataques a su cuerpo, mente y emociones para defender lo poco que queda libre de su ser.
Regardless of a person's motives or level of interest, this is the book I always initially recommend for persons seeking information on demonology, exorcism, etc.
Many a valuable book on the subject has it's information and message obscured by dogma and personal motive.
Many of the issues presented will be noticed as common to some other Catholic exorcism accounts, but I encourage folks to re-read the book, out of sequence, one case at a time, simply to disassociate the processes and persons involved.Highly recommended.
I do have to say the I thoroughly enjoyed Martin's narrative style and the 5 case studies which include peeps into the exorcee's past that ultimately lead to a possession.But for me there was too much emphasis on an intensely Christian(Catholic) faith.This work bordered to the point of being irrelevant to people like me from another culture/faith.
The last case on Parapsychology and the power of Tortoise's illusions on Carl's mind was literally the tipping point.
The catholic perception of Yoga to be the work of the devil really came out in this final case.Post the case studies, found the rest of the book to be driven on an agenda especially the section 'Manual of Possession- Human spirit and Jesus'.
