https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/853163.To_Be_Young_Gifted_and_Black
I first saw the play on PBS in the 1970s when I was a graduate student at Atlanta University. I was blown away with it. This still is one of my favorite plays. Unfortunately, Lorraine's Hansberry's talented career was cut short by cancer. I am sure that Nina Simone had Hansberry and herself in mind when she sang: "To Be Young, Gifted and Black." Hansberry lives on through her works and her life serves as an inspiration to us all.
A very imperfect book that I plan to hold near and dear to my heart.
It was tricky to get into, because it's a collection of her journal entries, letters, and her unfinished plays.
It's somewhat incohesive as a whole, but it turned out to be a highly rewarding read!
Apparently this was initially made for media on the seond year anniversary of Hansberry's death, but was later turned into a book for posterity and access.
I just love having the letters and journal entries of a creative black woman on my nightstand, where she's ruthlessly honest about her insecurities, creative process, depression and her talent.
Not tears of sorrow, because she wouldn't want you to do that.Tears of—and for—life.You cry because Lorraine Hansberry wrote the stuff of your life.
What a way with words.I leave you with this:“I wish to live because life has within it that which is good, that which is beautiful, and that which is love.
Therefore, since I have known all of these things, I have found them to be reason enough and—I wish to live.
Moreover, because this is so, I wish others to live for generations and generations and generations and generations.”
Had heard of this, and formed and impression of this, based on other things I read in Women's Studies in the 80's.
But for the first time picked up a copy at my daughter's school library, waiting for a meeting to start.
I really like the tone of it..
Looking forward to reading it all.Her description of the way the ghetto-izing schools of Chicago intentionally robbed their students of an education, and the effect on her, is shocking.
Also her description of her Dad's efforts to gain justice the 'right' way, and, again, the effects on her, hard to even imagine.
sheeeet, i mean, if nina simone used the title for a song, you know it's gotta have weight. one of the most captivating, yet eloquent, voices in modern letters. it's tragic, not only to die of pancreatic cancer, but, too, that all the finest writer's works always end up becoming "as relevant today."
Hansberry, in her short lifetime, produced wonderful work that should be categorized as "American Classics". This book is still a timeless and unique treasure that should be read and appreciated...
Lorraine Hansberry was a brilliant playwright, author, and critic. It is very sad that she died so young. However, This brilliant account of her life, told in her own words, is a treasure. Many people do not even realize that her father's famous U.S. Supreme Court caseabolished the practice of restrictive covenants and the case still in which her retains the Hansberry name. Restrictive Covenants allowed for racial segregation in the purchase of real property, specifically residential property, and this became a theme of Ms. Hansberry's major play "Raisin in the Sun." I love this book
Check out my quick review by clicking the link belowhttps://youtu.be/pVtPbUMf5DM
James Baldwin's beautiful introduction alone is worth reading - warm, sincere, and very moving - but Hansberry absolutely sparkles throughout.
That is what “C” means, my dear child—”—page 44“Eventually it comes to you: the thing that makes you exceptional, if you are at all, is inevitably that which must also make you lonely…”—page 137Has it really been almost fifty-two years since ‘A Raisin in the Sun’ was first produced on the stage?‘To Be Young, Gifted and Black: Lorraine Hansberry In Her Own Words,’ adapted by Robert Nemiroff, is a different reading experience.
It is a montage of journals, letters, articles, talks, interviews, musings and creative output of a gifted and eloquent mind that somehow works to tell her story.Recommendation: As much as I’m loath to leave my eReader on the shelf, ‘To Be Young, Gifted and Black’ is one dead-tree-book for which sacrificing the forest was worth it.
This book is a somewhat odd jumbled compilation of excerpts from Hansberry's plays and excerpts from her speeches and letters and essays, as well as an excellent introduction by James Baldwin.
If you have read nothing else of hers, this book gives you a sample of many of her different subjects and styles.
Hansberry died too young to write a straightforward autobiography or memoir so her ex-husband put this book together as well as he could under the circumstances.
Hansberry was an amazing woman who died young at age 34 and yet had written quite a few plays by that time.
What it IS, is a collection of Hansberry's letters, diary entries, interviews, play excerpts, artwork, and photographs.
The book is a work of art in that way.
I found myself anticipating the play sections just as much as the letters, photos, etc.
It was not the play I excepted, but it has made me even more interested in her other works besides A Raisin in the Sun, and I feel the same will happen to others who read it.
This book is a great resource to anyone wanting to learn more about Hansberry, her life, her cause, and her work.
I particularly liked her journal entries, interviews, diary entries & letters-- you could really see how authentic & transparent she was in her writing.
She wrestled with writers block, low self esteem & loneliness, and I felt that this book did a great job of letting us see how she handled these things.
The only thing that I did NOT like, was the formatting!
The book would go from journal entry, to a snippet of an interview to a snippet of a play to a snippet of another entry & so in and so forth.
It was horrible formatting.
In my honest opinion this book was very enlightening and should be sought out by many teenage African Americans. As a fourteen year old African American girl of present day America I can not say I can or ever will relate to everything she writes in this book, but reading this book I could find two handfuls of things important things that I relate to my life. Even if not African American this book would be a very good example of life as a whole. It was especially helpful to see life back then and through someone else's eyes
Not knowing much about lorraine hansberry at first, I started this book without any expectations. Immidiately I found myself totally fascinated and drawn towards her beautiful words. I couldn't stop reading and it affected me so much. Telling of racism, sexism and other difficulties especially as a black woman she never fails to encourage people to use their voice, never stop dreaming and believing in a better world. Seriously I cried so many times while reading this! I recommend reading this to everyone :)
A beautiful story by a beautiful author. This is the story of the life of someone cut to short. Lorraine Hansberry is my favorite writer in the whole world! A Raisin in the Sun, is one of the best piece of works that was ever made. The play is brilliant and writtent by a briliant playwork, who died much too young therefore we dont' have many pieces of work to marvel. This is a glimpse of her short life. She inspired me to write and to just be.
Amazing, powerful, look into her life. It was more than just poems or a story. It was so many of our stories then and now. I'm re-reading this and am just thankful I found it at an old Oakland shop. This will always be on my bookshelf. Classic!
I believe that Lorraine Hansberry is one of the first African-American women playwrights and authors whose works I viewed and read as a teenager in the late 60's.
this was not your typical biography. it felt more like I was reading Hansberry's personal journal intertwined with the plays she wrote during her short life.
I almost feel like the title is misleading because this book not only shares some of her life, it also takes a deeper look at racial issues that existed in the time it was written AND today, and it explores her thoughts about, and struggles with being an intellectual.
It forced me to reflect on my own identify; I consider myself to be the trifecta (Young, Gifted, and Black), which Hansberry believes is "doubly dynamic." I will say that if you are looking for a chronology of her life, and stories about summers with her cousins, you will not find it here.
Inspiring and gorgeous assemblage of Hansberry's writing, from scenes from unfinished plays to journal entries, to lists of her hopes and dreams. The world lost her far too soon.
I read this book last year, since it is a common reference point and one I've especially meant to read as a young, black & (I like to think at least) gifted man.
The collection of Hansberry's work includes the following, with my ratings out of five in parentheses:Prologue: Measure Him Right, Child (5)Part One: "I Wish to Live..."I.
Sarah, I Kin Read (4)III.
There Are No Simple Men (4)III.
To Be Young, Gifted and Black (3)VIII.
Before 'Tis Done ()Postscript: Some Background to the Book and a Note on the Stage Play To Be Young Gifted and Black
Amazing. There’s nothing else to say except Lorraine Hansberry is a genius. Her commentary on race sadly remains relevant, and one quote that particularly stood out is: “I think it’s very simple that the whole idea of debating whether or not Negroes should defend themselves is an insult.”
Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the Sun happens to be one of my favorite books of all time.
So reading an autobiography of her short life was bound to be interesting.
James Baldwin, author of Go Tell It On The Mountain and other novels gives a really interesting preface, talking about his friendship with her and all of the memories, whether good or bad that they shared.
The rest of the book chronicles her life growing up, including the landmark Hansberry vs.
Lee Supreme court case and incorporating short scenes from the different plays that she has written.
Hansberry's "To Be Young, Gifted and Black " is the story of a young Chi-town African-American woman who took the New York theater scene by storm with her play, A Raisin in the Sun. Hansberry's truths about the black experience in levels of anger, love, bitterness, laughter, and defiantly pride in a voice that is all Hansberry in her element.Picked up To Be Young, Gifted and Black in junior high school ( my junior high school was named Lorraine Hansberry I.
" and was an instant fan, after came of course "A Raisin in the Sun".
You don't read Hansberry, you experience her.

This book is about Lorraine Hansberry, one of the most famous black female writers that left us far too soon.
The book speaks about her various life stages from her birth, to growing up in segregated Chicago, coming to New York, and going into details about some of her works (e.g. Raisin in the Sun).
The book also shows her views on society (e.g. Civil Rights Movement) and her views on life in general.
The introduction by James Baldwin gives great insight into how truly talented Lorraine Hansberry was a writer before her career and life were tragically cut short by her illness.
Incredible. Lorraine Hansberry was amazing, and this book provides a really beautiful glimpse into her life, writing process, and artistic vision. I am so impressed by Robert Nemiroff's ability to use her letters, journals, and plays to tell her story and to capture her personality and spirit. I loved this book so much, and am very grateful to have spent time with Lorraine Hansberry and her incredible work.
Intertwining plays with essays with letters with her thoughts, this book gave an amazing in depth look into Lorraine hansberry and the contributions she has made to society. Her notion that it's not a negro condition but a human condition lends itself to her writing as that all humans are equal, I a powerful chord that still strikes today as there are still injustices and inequalities in our society.
Reading this book made me wish Lorraine Hansberry had lived long enough to pen her own memoir and write more of the work she had envisioned. Even though she is known for her work as a playwright, I yearn for more of her prose, more of her letters and art work, without so many excerpts from her plays. While I found some of the dramatic excerpts relevant in context, I found myself more moved by the narrative sections, maybe because they captured more of Hansberry in her own words.
