https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64144.The_First_Discworld_Novels_the_Colour_of_Magic_and_the_Light_Fantastic
The story of the first tourist on the Discworld, or alternately, the story of how the Discworld was nearly destroyed, or alternately the story of Rincewind and the Octavo, or even a story concerning how nice it is to have a hero around when you need one.In the beginning of this two-part tale, we are first introduced to Terry Pratchett’s Discworld – an entire world in the shape of a disc, set on the back of four enormous elephants, riding on the shell of gigantic turtle flying through space.
We’re introduced to hundreds of violently alive characters, all of whom add a great depth (and often a high sense of hilarity) to the story and the Discworld itself.Having never read any of Terry Pratchett’s works, I felt I should probably start at the beginning.

I again find myself wishing that Goodreads offered me a half-star option.
In the instance of this story I will grant it the higher of the options between three and four but I would prefer to diagnose it with a three and a half.It was great, it was okay, it was weak, it was strong.
Like Douglas Adams this tone is a blend of random detail and wit, utilizing deus ex machina elements at times for the sake of comedy.
On the whole it was an enjoyable fantasy and those who like a clever-enough plot that serves the humor of the writer should enjoy this.
I bought this combined hardcover edition to replace my worn paperbacks.
The stories, of course, are wonderful.
This is Pratchett, after all.
Rereading these earliest Discworld books after having read all the others reminds us of how the setting and characters evolved from their beginnings as comparatively simple comic fantasy.
It appears as though the text was digitized by an optical character reader, and no one verified the accuracy of the outcome.
This is very shoddy and, I felt, an insult to the story and to the memory of the author.
It's not like the copy I bought is a first edition.
An odd world, with odd characters, and an odd sense of humour, though oddly this all works.
In some ways Rincewind is more like us, and is therefore an apt narrator for us to follow, as he represents the viewer, and questions things like the viewer would.
Rincewind's attempts to figure out words are funny, and technically incorrect, and yet are blunt realities of what they describe.
This author is unbelievably good at stringing together random coincidences, in most books they would be frowned upon, but considering the nature of this odd world, they turn out humourous.
Not one of Pratchett's best, but it certainly has its moments of embarrassment (which always occur when someone reads Pratchett in public transportation and suddenly bursts out laughing like hell) plus the incredible duo Rincewind-Twoflower and the Luggage.
great book everyone should read
(I should have been forewarned, she's one of my craziest friends.) She quoted the line from Feet of Clay, "We can rebuild him, we have the pottery." OK, you need to know about Golems and the Bionic Man TV series to get the joke, but I laughed so much I almost choked (while trying to be quiet, with students glaring at us indignantly.) That's typical Pratchett.
I went on to know and love (from a safe distance) the formidable Granny Weatherwax, the ruthlessly effective Patrician, Vetinari, and the unexpectedly effective City Guard, some of whose members are convinced (on the evidence of narrativium...
When I previously left The Colour of Magic unrated, I was still trying to work out how I felt about the series—about the satirical style, which was new to me at the time, and about the confused worldviews of the characters.With this reading I've come to appreciate Rincewind as a person, as a character who embodies many of the traits of what it means to be human.
I did enjoy the book, for all its moral muddle, and Rincewind's character growth by the end—however slight—was inspiring.
But I'm learning to respect Pratchett for presenting a compelling moral worldview through The Colour of Magic and The Light Fantastic, even if it doesn't match the truth of our own world.I'll probably pick up another Discworld book in the future.
You can call this Cost of Entry into the Discworld if you like, but the nature of the books is that you can grab any you like and will be sucked in just as surely as if you tried to go in order. All but one other book in the series rates a 5 for me. Read them if you like fantasy literature at all, it's just behind Tolkien and Lewis in that regard.
Took me a while to get into it, but as I became accustomed to the style I began to enjoy the bizarre humour. The story takes second place to the funny aspects, but is still intriguing enough to keep the pages turning.
Surprisingly boring.
Re-reading these books. The first couple are good, but not a patch on some of the later ones.
Pratchett's world building is fantastic, and his word play/sense of fun is better than almost any other fantasy author I've ever read.
I'd heard many people say that "The Colour of Magic" was a weak way to get into Discworld, but I thought it was great.
I don't remember the last time I'd actually laughed and enjoyed a book the way I had when reading both "The Colour of Magic" and "The Light Fantastic" (as well as the way I have when reading any other of Pratchett's books).
These will definitely be re-read in the future, and I can't recommend them enough.
This was such a delightfully, silly, entertaining read. I've been meaning to get into Discworld for approximately ten million years and I can't believe it's taken me this long! I'm off now to read all of them!
I'd heard a lot about these books.
It wasn't near what I expected from all the hype that accompanied Pratchett's books.The Colour of Magic is the first book in the series, although I've heard that they can mostly be read as stand-alones.
They travel and meet dragons, edge-worlders (Discworld is of course a disc, balanced on the backs of four elephants who in turn stand on a turtle), trolls, and other strange beasts, most of whom are not very friendly.Rincewood and Twoflower are not very exciting characters.
I have heard that the writing and plots get better so I am somewhat excited to read more.
Twoflower was a tourist, the first ever seen on the Discworld. Tourist, Rincewind decided, meant idiot. Somewhere on the frontier between thought and reality exists the Discworld, a parallel time and place which might sound and smell very much like our own, but which looks completely different. It plays by different rules. Certainly it refuses to succumb to the quaint notion that universes are ruled by pure logic and the harmony of numbers. But just because the Disc is different doesn't mean th
But if the person charged with maintaining that survival in the face of robbers, mercenaries and, well, Death is a spectacularly inept wizard, a little logic might turn out to be a very good idea..."The Colour of Magic" is the first novel in Terry Pratchett's acclaimed Discworld series, which has become one of the most popular and celebrated sequences in English literature.
There's an avaricious but inept wizard, a naïve tourist whose luggage moves on hundreds of dear little legs, dragons who only exist if you believe in them, and of course THE EDGE of the planet… The Light Fantastic As it moves towards a seeemingly inevitable collision with a malevolent red star, the Discworld has only one possible saviour.
The first time I came across Pratchett was in Good Omens, and yeah, hes the more dominant writer in that book (certainly in the narrative style at least) but only here could I see how imaginative and amazing he really is!
The narrative is quick and bounces around perspectives, the action is great, the humour is good too, if a bit repetitive, and just his sheer imagination, is staggering!
Fui quase como obrigado a ler o livro, mas não num sentido negativo - junte-se um misto de curiosidade após ter lido Good Omens e lá me lancei.Posso dizer que gostei mais do que Douglas Adams; se vamos ser tolos, vamos ser tolos como deve ser.
Têm identidade e personalidade.São imensos livros, provavelmente não os irei ler a todos nesta vida, mas caraças, sei que vou ter de ler mais.Não liguem às estrelas.
At first I didn't really enjoy the book as I didn't get the sense of humour and the authors writing.
I did find you had to concentrate reading this book.
I feel like I might of had to concentrate more as I just started getting to reading again and my reading skills aren't amazing, but I still had fun reading it!
I may read the second book but I shall think about it.I read this book as I wanted to read something different and it was.
If you want to read something different I would recommend this book!
I did enjoy the book in the end!
The Colour of Magic and The Light Fantastic are the first two novels of the Diskworld by Terry Pratchett.The Diskworld series is a must read for anyone who likes to laugh while reading great stories about very sympathetic, and sometimes very silly people.
His imagination seems endless, as do his characters.Don't walk away from this series thinking it is only fluff, Pratchett's universe, though often silly, is well thought out, consistent and compelling.
Frequently his books take a satirical riff on our own world, but it is never mean or nasty.
These books exude joy over the quirks of the world and of human frailty and faults.Go read it.
Most of the times this novel is just really fun, and sometimes it's just plain weird. I also seem to remember that some of Prachett's book that I read were satirizing our world, or at least some parts of the book, but I didn't encounter any of such parts. So that was a minor disappointment. That, and the fact that the book is sometimes just weird, and not funny. But for the most part, this book is really fun and a great read!
Why oh why have I never read this book before, friends & relatives said "You'll love them, so very funny & clever" well I finally have & yes this book is a riot of satirical magic.Hilarious, fun, clever, amusing & downright bonkers I loved the Colour of Magic and was so sad to finish it I immediately bought Light Fantastic.Rincewind & Twoflower & The Luggage are just the craziest characters ever.
Entertaining read, with some hilarious, laugh-out-loud phrases
Like the games, this novel primarily concerns Rincewind the “wizard”.
Early on, he meets with an overly optimistic, comparatively wealthy visitor from afar named Twoflower and his many legged magical chest – a dog-like animated piece of furniture who follows Twoflower everywhere, destroying anything unlucky enough to come into its path – and the two of them go off on numerous unexpected and, from Rincewind’s point of view, unwanted adventures across the world.While considered a novel, it reads like a collection of short stories, each one following on the heels of its predecessors.
Pratchett's ideas are wonderfully clever, but in this, his first novel, he simply doesn't have the writing ability yet to do them full justice.
Rather than recommending this book (though it's really not bad), I would suggest the movie version starring Samwise Gamgee.
Though the movie gets pretty boring at times (it's a three-hour long TV miniseries, after all), it does a better job of telling a coherent story, as well as improving upon some of Pratchett's initial concepts.
This time around, the humor consistently hits the mark, fully showcasing Pratchett's acerbic wit.
I know Terry Pratchett has a hard core following so I thought I'd give one of his books a try after years of considering it and walking past the shelf in the library.
It's actually too much and less would have been more in this instance and it would have helped the storyline which is essentially a journey.
There's no moral realisation at the end of the journey (book) which you'd expect.
Things I liked in the book is the luggage and the camera demon.
I got bored frequently in the book and it consequently took me ages to finish the thing.
I won't be trying any further of this author's books.
I've read perhaps 15 or 20 of the Discworld books, and in terms of my overall rankings, this falls in the middle of the pack.There's several threads and ideas that I haven't seen explored further and there's a certain freshness and vibrancy that the more mature works lack - it feels like anything could happen, and this is intentionally a travelogue, which allows a broader, breezier scope that, for example, the Night's Watch novels lack.
On the other hand, it does feel a bit amateurish with more throwaway jokes/references than later books.Overall I enjoyed this more than I expected to, and would recommend it, but do not consider it the best starting point for reading Discworld.
Die Farben der Magie und das Licht der Phantasie sind zwei Romane die zusammen gehören. Terry Pratchett hat mit ihnen eine unglaubliche Geschichte in einer phantastischen Welt erschaffen. Es geht um zwei sehr ungleiche Individuen die ein Reise bestreiten während sich eine Freundschaft zwischen ihnen entwickelt. Der Zauberer der Geschichte ist kein typischer Held. Viel mehr ein Feigling. Während der Tourist eine sehr eigene Art hat die Welt um sich zu begutachten. Im Grunde passieren jede Menge Dinge mit denen man rechnen kann aber Enden alle anders als man denkt. Es gibt reichlich zu lachen und zu denken. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
When I first started reading this I thought it was very similar to Douglas Adams and felt confident in that assumption.
Boy was I wrong.
I imagine this story was written by an ADHD 6 year old on LSD then later rewritten and fleshed out by a professional writer.
The transitions will give you whiplash and the descriptions will give you a headache for just trying to wrap your mind around such outlandish ideas, creatures, and landscapes.
This was the most fanciful and ridiculous thing I believe I've ever read.
I can only imagine what is in store for me on the next one.
