https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2237906.Nine_Suitcases
Then they’re going to take me behind the bushes and bang…Dort is der Hurenfriedhof’ [That’s where the whores’ cemetery is.:]I don’t even know what a suitable response to this story would be; maybe just an overwhelming sense of shame at belonging to the human race.
I’d love to send you home and I’m going to try, but I don’t think these bastards will let me.”Zsolt adds:And the next day he was roaring at me, as always.
It’s also a need to hear stories about people like Dr Kovács.
It was originally published in serial form in 1946, only a year after the war ended, but it was suppressed by the Communists and languished in obscurity after that.
It wasn't translated into English until recently.The author, Bela Zsolt, was the stepfather of the famous teen Holocaust diarist Eva Heyman, who was killed at Auschwitz.
Bela was a famous journalist and novelist before the war, and he used his wealth and connections to escape the ghetto with his wife at the eleventh hour.
It's near impossible to comprehend how he was able to devote his life to the betterment of his beloved country and suffer such horrors as compensation.
He didn't need to in order to endure the worst of the atrocities that WWII had to offer to mankind.
And yet he kept going, despite the failure of his country, despite the failure of his people, despite the failure of mankind to give him the life that his efforts should have brought him.
All are showcased in the author's recounting of the fate he suffered during one of the worst times of the history of the world.
Nine Suitcases: A Memoir is every bit as heart-breaking, horrific and important as the works of Holocaust survivors Elie Wiesel and Primo Levy.
It's nothing short of amazing, and perhaps the best written account out there of what it was like to be a Hungarian Jew during WWII (without doubt the best I've encountered).
If you have any interest at all in Holocaust literature, you really need to get a copy of this book.
But this account so moved me and means so much to me that this is one book I can't bear to get rid of, and one that I'll likely treasure forever.
One of the most moving books I have read because of its unfiltered honesty of the holocaust. It isn't pretty, touching, or inspiring, it is merely an account of human evil. I must read because of its significance to our world and understanding our past. It isn't warm and fuzzy account, and the things that happened are so horrifying because you know they are real. Very eye openning and somewhat disturbing.
An important book about the WWII.
The book would have been interesting enough already if it were 'only' an account of one man's experiences during the war, but 'nine suitcases' is much more than that.
Zsolt's reflections on why people did what they did in the war are fascinating and insightful.
The story in itself is also fascinating, albeit he was not able to finish it.
Zsolt didn't live long enough after the war to finish writing down this part of his experiences.
Finished this remarkable book.Don't know where I found it, but it turned up in our library while I was culling books to give away.Struck by the detailing, the indictment of victims and perpetrators.I've never read anything in Holocaust rememberings like this book.Unlike his and his wife Agnes' families, Zsolt avoided Auschwitz, but suffered immeasurably in his Hungarian ghetto and in the Ukraine where he was deported to forced labor as a gravedigger.
Oltre ad essere il concreto fattore che ha portato lui e la moglie a finire nel ghetto, verso il campo di concentramento e la morte, sono il simbolo dell'attaccamento borghese verso i beni materiali, verso tutto ciò che l'autore ha combattuto in tutta la sua vita, e che infatti è solo foriero di distruzione e di morte.
This was a great book on the Holocaust, one of the best I have ever read.
Originally published in Hungary in weekly installments starting in 1946, it tells the story of Béla Zsolt’s experiences in the ghetto and as a forced laborer in the Ukraine.
It gives one a look at Hungarian fascism and also a shocking expose to the cruelty, indifference, selfishness, cowardice and betrayal of which human beings—the victims no less than the perpetrators—are capable in extreme circumstances.
This was what made this book so powerful, much different than others.
This is not an exciting book.
It is what it is, a true story with no embellishments.
I must have missed something in this book. A whiny man blaming the "Nine Suitcases" that his wife insisted on bringing for his fate.
A second reading felt necessary after finishing The Invisible Bridge. Words don't suffice for how frightening and honest this is. The worst thing about it is it's true. Should be required reading.
During the first years of World War II and before the persecution of Jews became prevalent, he and his wife, Agnes, moved to Paris.
He was given several chances to leave Hungary and other places; but never took his friends up on it because Agnes refused.
Bela’s descriptions of his time in the Ukraine and in prison and later in the various camps he was in are very detailed.
However, he gives a very detailed account of life before and during the Holocaust for a Jew. He and Agnes were lucky they were not sent to Auschwitz with her parents and daughter.
Es de los primeros testimonios del holocausto y su autor era escritor, por tanto, es un relato bien escrito y sin filtro editorial.
La mejor parte y por lo que merece la pena todo lo demás, es la parte del tren en la que él, su mujer y una amiga viajan, en el 44, a Budapest.
Con todo lo que había visto ya, es capaz de narrar con sentido del humor, con sarcasmo y con cinismo, y casi con frialdad, lo que hacen y dicen sus compañeros de vagón mientras los aliados bombardeaban Hungría.
La ignorancia del pueblo llano sobre el holocausto es un mito.
Picked this book up in a bookstore in Budapest after visiting the Holocaust Museum not really knowing what to expect but seeking an account of someone who lived through the experience rather than a historian's view of events. It makes for grim reading but it is well written as you would expect from a journalist. Personally I am glad I read the book but feel a reader needs to be 'ready' to read the accounts of the cruelty and misery that people are capable of when it comes to war and discrimination.
De auteur overtuigt ons van zijn kwaliteiten. Hij beschrijft wat hij met een scherp oog ziet in mooie zinnen en graaft diep in de gedachten en gevoelens van al de slachtoffers die hem omringen. Een aangrijpend boek ook al ken je de goede afloop. De arrogantie van de Duitse bezetter, die toen de oorlog zo goed als verloren was in Hongarije nog zoveel mensen de dood heeft ingejaagd, tart elke verbeelding en wordt hier vanuit de ervaringen van de auteur in een mooi proza gegoten.
Written closely on the tail of WWII, this Hungarian Jew, was an author and social critic/activist (as best as I can tell), and was more passionate about social issues than his Judaism or the Jewish community (see pp 274-275, for example).
But those things combined made him even more of a target as Hungary was pulled more closely into the insanity of Nazi Germany.The book begins with his incarceration in a Jewish ghetto as the eager Hungarians (efficiently aided by the Germans) annihilate the Hungarian Jews in 1944.
He mocks himself to some degree, and maybe that is his response to the madness and the eager willingness of human beings to treat other people with such brutality, and so thoroughly.
Zsolt viaja de Budapest a París junto a su esposa y 9 maletas, tras su regreso es deportado y enviado a trabajar en un campo esclavo en el frente oriental, confinado en un gueto y enviado a un campo e concentración hasta su liberación por las tropas soviéticas.
Neuf valises est un témoignage poignant d'un journaliste hongrois sur ce qu'il a vécu de l'holocauste lors de la 2ème guerre mondiale.
D'abord publié en feuilletons dans un journal, son histoire est dans ce livre regroupé.Il y évoque sa vie de tourmente pendant la guerre, fossoyeur forcé en Ukraine puis déporté dans un ghetto, il vie toutes les abominations de l'occupation d'un pays, son pays, la Hongrie.C'est un témoignage très réaliste, à ne pas laisser dans les mains des âmes sensibles, mais permet de réaliser les horreurs que les humains peuvent faire subir à d'autres.
C'est dommage mais cela n'enlève pas l'importance du témoignage de cet homme.Je reste malgré tout moyennement satisfaite de cette lecture, car je ne suis pas complétement entrée dans la lecture.
This account was suppressed by the Communists for forty years. . It was originally published in installments in Hungary starting in 1946. I did find it interesting in the fact that it was Hungary and the Ukraine which I have not read about before. Mr. Zsolt's story is very compelling and his strength is most definitely unbelievable. His endurance and will to survive is amazing. The atrocities this gentleman faced are beyond comprehension. I loved the references to the Nine Suitcases and what they represented. This is the first time this account has been translated into English.
Very revealing about WWII anti-Semitism and persecution in Europe. Bit of a difficult read as he jumps back and forth in time & topic as in a casual conversation. There are few people to like in this book. He is irreverent & a realist in the negative sense. All that said, it is well worth the read.
Incredibly well written. Honest in a way I have certainly not read before when dealing with the holocaust. Terribly sad. I can't help constantly questioning hoe I would have fared. As a Jew I would not have survived: I don't believe I would have been physically or mentally strong enough. As s non-Jew would I have been as ignorant and evil as some of his descriptions?
Zsolt's Nine Suitcases is excellent - Zsolt writes beautifully & does not pull any punches. He gives us a window into what it took to survive Nazi occupation, the grim reality of the sacrifices that people had to make. The recounting of people trying to escape, succeeding & then returning to the Nazis was terrifying.
This is a soul-crushingly painful read on the dark depths of humanity in the face of war. Blunt and clearly written, Zsolt puts the reader in his shoes effortlessly and makes you thankful that you can easily close the book and NOT have experienced the atrosities occuring within the pages. Be prepared to read something lighthearted after this one.
I only dislike this so much because it isn't so much about the Holocaust as it is the author's thoughts on the war. I greatly dislike books that are contemplating "the-meaning-of-life-type-thing". Too poetic for my taste.
I thought this was a good read, but it was really hard to get through, for some reason.
I struggled with the beginning of this book. I found it hard to read, but overall it was just okay.
I really enjoyed this book.I felt it was a different twist to typical books on the holocaust. So sad for the Jews who suffered so much.
stark and bitter.
Wow!
Enjoyed it "Tremendously"!"
