https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30355.Love_Beyond_Reason
Maybe if I read it 30 years ago I might have enjoyed it more. Ms Brown's writing and plot lines sure have improved.
3.5 stars. I love. Love. Love. Sandra Brown, but her older books are crazy cheesy!! I giggled throughout this entire book and I don't think it was meant to be funny. The constant "combing, brushing, and racking fingers through his crisp chest hair" was hilarious. You'd think he was a bear he has so much chest hair. Hahaha. Oh and he wore "cut off jean shorts with a t shirt that had the midriff cut off to show off his taut stomach muscles" was also very funny.
3.5 Light Cheesy and Tropey Stars!Enjoyed this older Sandra Brown Romance.Only…he could have done a better job at the explanation on the ow situation.But then angry alpha Hs don’t do explaining very well especially when…. "I'm too proud to have pleaded innocence when there wasn't even a crime.”And no need too…when all you have to do is get in a tough-guy-on-a-burning-rig situation and watch her crawl!
This book doesn't even deserve one star. This has to be one of the worst books that I've ever read in my life. I only kept reading it in the ridiculous (and futile) hope that it surely would have to get better at some point.I wanted to shoot myself between the eyes...this book was so BORING!!! If I had of known it was going to be all romance ...I would have NEVER purchased this book!! There was no suspense...no nothing...just two people thrown together ....I was just like SERIOUSLY! Definitely do not recommend this book!
Un libro fácil de leer con una trama que te deja querer seguir para saber que pasara con los protas. Me enamoré de Jack pero a veces su cabezoneria me ponia de un humor terrible. Porque no explicaba y aclaraba las cosas. Digno ejemplo de la mayoria del comportamiento de los hombre. Me gusto mucho y la volveria a leer.
Rating 3.5I enjoyed the book, the heroine grew up with a mother and a sister, frugally since her fat
This was awwwwwful. It was almost hilariously bad, except there was nothing funny about it. In fact, I was enraged the majority of the time I was reading this. Maybe back in the early 80s this was considered sexy, romantic, whatever? Maybe I'm just too modern a woman to think that coercion, manipulation, verbal abuse, violence, and victimization are things to be desired in a relationship? Especially when there's a baby involved.
Dulu suka sekarang biasa, hahaha. Penilaian bisa berubah.
As Sandra Brown's older books go, though, this one is not one of the worst.Katherine Adams has run away with her newborn niece to escape the Mannings - her sister's in-laws and who (along with their deceased son) she blames for her sister Mary's demise.
While this obviously simplifies the plot, it also makes it unrealistic - because the people Katherine is running from don't seem to be making that much of an effort to find her.Still, if you like simple, no-strings-attached romance novels and don't mind that this is an older book, Love Beyond Reason makes an OK, quick beach or poolside read.
Pembaca pasti dengan mudah merasakan simpati pada Kathrine yang harus mengambil alih pengasuhan keponakannya setelah adiknya meninggal.
Dan dia harus menjauhkan anak itu dari keluarga Manning.
Jadi ketika Jason Manning datang menemuinya, sikap defensif sudah pasti menjadi senjata Kat. Novel ini menggunakan POV orang ketiga, tapi hanya melihat dari sisi Kat. Yang dituliskan hanya perasaan Kat saja, dan Kat yang dengan mudah menghakimi Jace.
Selain itu latar belakang Jace tidak begitu jelas.
Selain karakter Jace yang dewasa dan lembut, sulit memahami apa yang dilakukan Jace sampai dia sendiri yang mengatakannya.Layout dan bahasa terjemahan yang (hampir) jadul sedikit mengganggu.
I read this book really fast and it was funny and really enjoyable read.It's about two people who are brought together by the death of Katherine's sister and Jason's brother.
They had a little baby girl, who Katherine is trying to protect from Jason's family, because she promised that to her dying sister.
She had never met Jason and she thinks that he is just like the rest of his family heartless and mean, and when he comes and wants to take her niece she is really scared.
Vintage Sandra Brown when she was using one of her early pseudonyms, Rachel Ryan. She has come a long way since she wrote this formulaic Harlequin romance, but it was a quick, light read, something I needed today!
Terminado de leer el 01/08/2009
Originally written in the early 80's....Frilly, flowery with an insipid h......Definitely not one on SB's best :(
Very little left to the imagination. Lacked suspense. Highly predictable.
It was published in 1981.My bigger problem with the book was the plot arc and romantic arc.
The plot starts out with the heroine fleeing her younger sister's family trying to take her dead sister's child.
I expected the plot to continue with the evil, vindictive family trying to get control of the kid, but that was resolved in a paragraph midway through the book.
This is a pretty sexy romance by 1981 standards.
But while there is a lot of early kissing and sexual tension, it wasn't handled particularly deftly--not like in Brown's later categories for Loveswepts, which are damn sexy, done well.
Pretty lame reading.
I've read other Sandra Brown books--Ricochet being a favorite-- and while there is some sex in her other novels, I generally don't consider the other books I've read of hers "romance novels" , but rather "thrillers".
This novel is definitely not a thriller, but just a cheesy romance novel with a bunch of sex scenes.
All so very fake and lame.
The only reason I finished it was because it was an audio book and it was a long, boring drive.
If I had actually been reading the written book, I would have never had finished this lame story.
Love Beyond ReasonMs Sandra Brown, I had forgotten about your art of writing. It's been a while since I've read your writing and it's as good as I remember. Jase and Katherine are great characters. One minute the story took me up and I felt so happy for them, the next I was upset almost angry. Not knowing from one chapter to the next what was real and what was not. I enjoyed the ups and downs.
I really enjoyed this story. In a nutshell......husband and pregnant wife. Husband dies, wife goes into labor and delivers prematurely and dies. Sister of wife takes baby and starts a new life. Brother of dead husband finds sister of dead wife raising his niece. It's a Sandra Brown romance novel, so you know what happens! I really enjoyed this story! Laying by the pool, soaking up the sun, bawling my eyes out!
If your sister and her husband both die within days of each other leaving a premature baby behind, what would you do? Katherine took the responsibility of raising her sister’s baby seriously. So, however, did the brother of the baby’s father. The complications of providing a safe environment for baby Alison is central to this story. The book presents characters you love and a touching situation, but no complicated plot. It is what it is and I loved it.
Your usual Sandra Brown fare of helpless heroines and arrogant but with his heart in the right place hero.
Buku ini kalau banyak konflik memang best tapi iklan buku pertama sandra brown right..tapi suka kat Jason Manning..boleh tahan karisma dia nih..hehehe..
Sladká romanca, ktorú som prečítala v rámci výzvy.
I love her books!
Dated romance
Excellent Loved this book , it’s Sandra Brown after all. She never disappoints and enjoyed it a lot. I highly recommend this book and all Miss Browns novels.
SweetLove the characters and wish there was more to read! An unusual love story but very intriguing. Lots of smiles with this one.
AMAZING! At times I would get annoyed at her giving in to him and how arrogant he was but eventually got used to it. I Love This Love Story Of Theirs!
Good quick mindless read
I just love Sandra Brown's books. I love the women and the men. It made me swoon.
