https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51353.Anarcho_Syndicalism

Excellent explanation of the history and development of Anarchism from the early labor unions through the first international and the split with the authoritarian socialist to the mid 1900s. This is by no means an expansive examination of theory but Rocker does a good job at clarifying the defining thoughts and strategies of Syndicalism. Perfect for someone who is looking for an introduction into Syndicalism before getting into more in depth theory.
“The general strike is an invaluable weapon, for which there is no substitute.” “Compulsory labor is the last road that can lead to Socialism.” “A general strike leads to a scattering of military forces.” “The whole import of sabotage is actually exhausted in the motto: for bad wages, bad work.” “The sabotage of the workers is always directed at the employers, not the consumers.” “Anarcho-Syndicalists know that wars are only waged in the interest of the ruling classes; they believe therefore, that any means is justifiable that can prevent the organized murder of peoples.” “In Italy, there has always existed, from the days of the First International, a strong Anarchist movement.”
Add to this the fact that the author tediously repeats ad nauseum the history of anarcho-syndacalist and labor movements.
The work reads like a catalogue of names arranged on a time-line "In France, X founded organization Y that met at a congress in Z in 1853" and so on.
A professor in college once told me that the history of organizations is rather boring, and while at the time I was skeptical of this remark reading this book just confirmed it.
However, the work is pedantic, basically boring, and too repetitive to be worth your time.
Naglašava da sindikati (koji su nosioci te borbe) ne mogu samo da se bave ekonomskim problemima na radnom mestu, jer ih se širi društveni problemi takođe tiču, a da predstavnička građanska demokratija nije adekvatan okvir u kojem ta prava mogu da ostvare i zaštite.Kao metode borbe (direktne akcije), nabraja generalne štrajkove, bojkot i sabotažu, i sve su usmerene na paralisanje sistema do ispunjenja zahteva.
Mogu da razumem kako je to bilo efektno u velikim pogonima XX veka (rudari, velike fabrike, brodogradilišta, železnice, itd.) ali danas je čini mi se takvih "vitalnih" sektora koji zapošljavaju veliki broj radnika ostalo malo, pa ne vidim baš kako je to relevantno za današnja uslove.
Anarcho-syndicalism, Rocker tells, is the organization of the political and economic structures of life around trade unions, which would collectively make decisions from the bottom up, i.e. democratically, and would control their own means of production.
He uses these examples to insist, moreover, that anarcho-syndicalism is a very real option, and he suggests that it is the only just way for a society and an economic system to be organized.
But he believes that the way to achieve this type of society is organically, and that means that it can't be imposed from the top down.
Feeling a light to decent 4 on this book by Rudolf Punk Rocker
Among the more salient points covering the time period are Rocker's various critiques of Soviet influence/interference in various political arenas (obviously in Spain) throughout the text.
The critique is two sided arguing against 'political socialism' failure to move beyond petty reforms and bourgeois democracy inability and unwillingness to combat fascism: "The era of political revolution is over...On the one hand it becomes constantly clearer that bourgeois democracy is so degenerate that it is no longer capable of offering effective resistance to the threat of Fascism.


Provides an comprehensive, well organized, and easy to understand introduction to anarchism and anarcho-syndicalism in particular. The author, Rudolf Rocker, is also probably one of the most qualified individuals to write such a books, having served syndicalist movements for many years through the first half of the twentieth century. Myself being new to the vast subject of anarchism, I walked away from this title much more informed on anarcho-syndicalism, its history, objectives, and methods. Definitely worth a read.
I felt like the last chapter wasn't entirely useful, but this book does an excellent job of explaining syndicalist strategies and ideology, while explaining the possible dangers of relying on centralized, top-down organizations to represent the working class. I don't necessarily consider myself an anarchist, but this is a fine work which summarizes many of the core ideas of anarcho-syndicalism and anarchism in general. This work appears to have been written with the beginner in mind, so I'm not too sure if you'll find it useful if you've been into anarchism for some time.
This is one of those theory texts that shifts your entire perception of how political change can and should be affected. I found myself on several occasions stopping at the end of a passage and processing it for a couple minutes before continuing, because there's such a richness of information contained within.
A fantastic resource for anyone trying to investigate anarchism as a political philosophy. Both concise and comprehensive, and clearly written by someone who is very fluent in the subject matter. An engaging description of a political philosophy which seems more and more pertinent.
Great introduction to the historical movement of syndicalist anarchism. It gives a brief history of the movement and the related ideological currents and explains thoroughly the methods thereof.
it is excellent!
I think this is a good introduction to Anarcho-syndicalism and its history, but I have more questions I need to ask about it.
This is ok and interesting as a political theory book. It rubbish as a piece of propaganda which is what it was really meant to be.
It includes an almost complete history of the syndicalist movement.
I was hoping to find in this book an elaborate explanation of how the economic system of syndicalism works.
Syndicalism is an economic system.
Rocker) in with people like Kropotkin, Proudhon, and Nettlau.
You really see how much of a tragedy Marxism/Leninism is in this book.
I give this book this many stars because I did realize that I am somewhat of a syndicalist, and that being a libertarian socialist pretty much demands that you be a syndicalist.
Indeed, the history of libertarian socialism is the history of anarcho-syndicalism.
Unlike Marxism which is very much a pseudo-science whilst otherwise pretending to be some kind of bible setting out a definite road map for humanity, the version of Anarchism presented here (and this seems to be the general feeling I get from other similar works I've read from the Anarcho-Syndicalist school) is that not much can be said about the specifics of social organisation.
The syndicalist aspect derives from the idea that trade unions and similar labour organisations can serve as a basis for creating and building overall moves towards an Anarchist model of society.
In this book, the history, practice, and theory of the most popular (I think?) and long-lasting school of anarchism is laid-out. The hilarious grandstanding tone typical of a lot of radical leftist literature has a special charm to it. Other than that, I liked the critique on socialism and communism by somebody who clearly understood the systems. I didn't know communism had a concept called the "dictatorship of the proletariat" before reading this. What a horrifying idea that is.
Anarcho-syndaclism eliminates the apparatus of the state as a means to socialism, whereas classical Marxist theory insists that the state will wither away once the proletarian has seized control of the means of production.
Anarcho-syndaclism values the use of direct action as a means to control the forces of production, and the utility of unions and defederated workers councils as the proper structures for social planning.
Rocker points to the syndaclists of the Spanish Revolution as the primary example of the theory in action, though there seem to be few cases in history of such socialization without centralized planning.
Similarly, upon finishing another book, Roch Winds, I was also left questioning the overlooking of the people organised by the party.I'll be reading Gramsci very soon, someone who, I hope, might bring some of the ideas mentioned in my previous reading together; ideas which might shed more light on how in the west today we might bring about socialist revolution.It's clear to me that Marxism isn't a dogma, that Socialism must base itself upon this fact; and not allow itself to be constrained by the sort of irrelevant, historical posturing all too common on leftie social media today.To sum up, a good book, but one my communist grounding can't help but question.
Rocker had the arduous task of hastily putting together a document explaining the dynamism of a movement which had come about due to the necessity of working class action in early 20th century Europe; one which had buckled away from the dead-end of left social democrats and had taken a different and more decisive route altogether.
When he wrote this he was simply articulating about a movement which had already developed grass-roots in France, Spain, Italy and Latin America.
etc.) and its more dry than it needs to be, but it contains an important genesis emphasising working class self-organisation as the means for social revolution.
Such a great introduction to Anarcho-Syndicalism.
Literally covers all the bases that someone interested in AS would be interested in learning about: organizational precepts, a history of movements across the world, in-depth descriptions of how syndicalism differs from other socialist tendencies, and all along written with such an incredible passion for what he's describing that it's hard not to become excited about the possibilities of the movement, even today almost 80 years since he wrote it.
All in all, this is the book I'd recommend to people interested in learning about Anarcho-Syndicalism as a tendency separate from other general left-libertarian and socialist tendencies.
A thorough history of the Anarcho-Syndicalist labor movements in Europe in the early part of the 20th century.It reads like a history told the defeated, as a major theme is how either pro-government, parliamentarian labor or Soviet led operatives kept coopting the movement and reducing its effectiveness.Inspiring as a record of how very large-scale, self-governing civil society organizations worked at a period in history.
Not a casual read.
Anarcho-Syndicalism: Theory and Practice by Rudolf Rocker was an excellent introductory work into the topic of anarchism and, specifically, Anarcho-Syndicalism.
Rocker takes the reader through the history of Anarchism and the development of the brand known as Anarcho-Syndicalism.
Although I did not walk away an Anarchist by any means, I did appreciate the arguments made on behalf of Anarchism and feel that Anarchists do have valid points to be made and criticisms to be levied against any involvement with the state in fighting for a world run by the producers.

"Anarchism is no patent solution for all human problems, no Utopia of a perfect social order, as it has often been called, since on principle it rejects all absolute schemes and concepts. It does not believe in any absolute truth, or in definite final goals for human development, but in an unlimited perfectibility of social arrangements and human conditions which are always straining after higher forms of expression, and to which for this reason one can assign no definite terminus nor set any fixed goal. "
I'd been wanting to read something semi-modern on anarchy. This pretty well fit the bill. It's not a particularly interesting book though it clarified a notion I already sensed: that anarchists and Marxists have a lot in common. Both want workers to organize and revolt, with the goal of eliminating capitalism and the state. With such a vast and good goal in common, I would have thought I'd see anarchists and Marxists working together more often. (Though, then again, different flavors of Marxists won't work with each other, so...)
