https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6561385-six-graves-to-munich
I mean what kind of woman is more suitable to stay with a man who had murder and revenge in his mind than a woman who (view spoiler)[didn't view human life and moral the same way like a normal person did (hide spoiler)]?)I heard that before the success of The Godfather, Mr. Puzo had been a struggling novelist, therefore I would not be surprised if Mr. Puzo wrote this book only to earn more money...because there is just something about this book that makes me feel this.Last but not least, I will talk about the shortcoming of this novel: although the MC had been tortured half to death during WWII and he supposedly had many experiences about the underground intelligence and spy network, but from time to time he acted rather careless.
I did a book report on Mario Puzo's "The Godfather" when I was in sixth grade.
I have been a Puzo fan ever since but only recently read "Six Graves to Munich" when I received it as a gift.
It is clearly Puzo's early work but there's no denying even at this early juncture in his career, the man could set a compelling scene peopled with memorable characters.
It's a short read but packs a great punch in its minimal pages, and will give Puzo fans an even greater appreciation for the incredible writer he grew into in his later works.
This is Mario Puzo's first novel originally published under another name. It's a fast paced vengeance thriller. A great little read. Michael Rogan was captured, tortured and left for dead by 7 nazi agents in WWII. Now it is 10 years later and Michael is looking for revenge and he will stop at nothing to get it.
I Have just finished this novel. It is very surprising that this is the Same author of The Godfather. It is badly written with a bad story. very disappointing I do not recommend
Should he listen to his heart or continue to pursue his quest for vengeance, whatever it takes?That seems like the perfect recipe for an interesting novel.
But, as the readers get on with the book, they realise that the story does not keep the momentum of thrill and suspense alive, which I think is the most important thing to look forward to in such a story.
Even though murders and planning for murders were taking place throughout the novel, it was not particularly disturbing.
Another way to say it is ~ it failed to make any impact on the reader.
Mario Puzo es autor de El Padrino. Sólo eso debiera bastar para demostrar que es un escritor fabuloso. Y otros libros, como El Siciliano (basado en mafioso real, pero en la novela se enlaza su historia con la de los Corleone) o Los Tontos Mueren, quizá no alcanzan el nivel legendario de El Padrino, pero son excelentes también.Pero por lo visto, incluso autores notables generan a veces baratijas literarias. Esta novela es mediocre, a lo mucho. Personajes caricaturescos y poco creíbles, una historia de venganza sorprendentemente simplista y lineal, un final predecible y bastante vacuo. Sería una novela por encargo?
I knew there was something wrong when I'm already in the middle of the book and I still can't seem to symphatize with the main character's plight. The plot of the book was interesting but I didn't enjoy reading this book much. I've read Puzo's other books like Godfather and Sicilian. In comparison, this book does not seem to be as well written as those two.This book was written under Puzo's pseudonym Mario Cleri. They should have just kept it under Cleri and not associate it with Puzo.
A longtime fan of one of the most recognizable and much loved authors of our time, I was overjoyed when I received “Six Graves to Munich”.
While most of the Puzo collection brilliantly focuses on the trials and tribulations of crime families, “Six Graves to Munich” is written in a different time and has a softer, although much more painful, undertone.
Once a man with everything, Michael Rogan now has one goal, one primary focus and breathes solely for vengeance.
In what seems like another world, he was once a brilliant man who was able to easily manipulate situations to benefit himself.
If you loved the Godfather and you like the organized crime kind of books, this will be an enjoyable read.
Joe, I mean Mike, is now on a mission to kill the 7 men who tortured him and murdered his wife in WWII.My only problem with the book is it almost seems a little rushed.
Puzo covers Joe Rogans life (although leaves out when he took over the Man Show) in about 20 pages, and most of the murder plots and executions of the plots are not as elaborate as in his later books.
Everyone should read the Godfather, it is amazing.
It could have used another hundred pages to flesh out the story.There were also inaccuracies about Germany that annoyed me (although may not annoy the average reader).
I'm pretty sure the Hofbräuhaus in Munich would not be serving Weisswurst in the evening, or maybe it does for the tourists, I can't be sure, but I know any regular Bavarian restaurant doesn't serve Weisswurst after noon.
I also doubt Hofbräuhaus had vomit receptacles in the bathrooms in 1967, so people could empty their stomachs, then continue eating, but again, I wasn't there, so maybe they did.
These aren't things an average tourist would realize probably.In the end, it was an enjoyable, very quick read.
Y digo debe ser porque definitivamente tengo que leer más, mucho más de él.Con esta novela me estreno en la escritura de Mario Puzo.Me encantan las historias de la Segunda Guerra Mundial, específicamente de las que hablan de los agentes de la Gestapo y esta definitivamente no decepciona.
Desde que comienzas a leerlo te adentras de lleno a la historia, su pluma es ligera, no es nada repetitiva ni pesada y en ningún momento aburre.Me encantó la personalidad del protagonista Michael Rogan, involucrado en la Sección de Inteligencia americano, astuto, sediento de venganza y sin una gota de humor.
Muy divertido. Pulp puro y duro con espías y nazis incluidos.
This book was poor.
i understand why mario puzo wrote it under a pseudonym.
it could have been great and i can see how he got to be so wondeful of an author but, i basically fiished this in one sitting on a plane i ess then four hours.
the female main character is MASSIVELY simplfiied and sexualised and just a poor representation of a realistic reality-VERY unusual for puzo.
so yea, if you havent read it dont stress JUST because you want to read all his stuff, because its not up to his ususal standards of ALL his other work that ive read.
Después de leer algunas reseñas en goodreads me había desanimado un poco a leer el libro, pero una vez que empiezas no paras hasta terminarlo, en primer lugar porque es pequeño, y en segundo por que la historia te atrapa de lleno un thriller de venganza que resulta una entretenida lectura.
Please be aware that even when Mario Puzzo wrote Il Padrino, this is nothing compared.
A lot of people has bad feelings about this book but I think it's great.
The main character named Rogan is sent to Europe on a mission and just by bad luck, the Gestapo captures him and his wife.
They are tortured and the Gestapo threatens to kill his wife if he does not translate American codes in exchange.
This is a book about revenge, so even if I haven't read it all, I have the feeling it will be bloody (something I like from Mario Puzzo's stories).
It's a bit simple for me and to be honest it's not like Mario's style, well if i compare to 'The Godfather' which is my favourite..But overall it's a good story and even I do not get the 'thrilling' thing, but it made me want to know the ending.
Es un libro rápido de leer. Una historia, una venganza, un par de personajes y un final. Me sirvió para descansar la vista pues no pretende ser un best-seller. No lo recomendaría como para comprarlo, salvo que esté en un mercado de pulgas o algo así.
A seemingly simple story of revenge, this is a powerfully written book about good and evil, the horrors of war and, ultimately about redemption of sorts.
Contrived storyPlot was a tired story of vengeance with antagonists coming out of nowhere only to vanish in a simple-minded way. Story lacked any of the charm of The Godfather.
Simple, straightforward, with little suspense but still an interesting read
Very fast. Though the outcome was easy to guess, the way Mario Puzo had written, it was a real page turner.
Divertido, sencillo y un poco olvidable...
A shorter crime book written by Mario Puzo in comparison to The Godfather and equally gruesome.
Mario Puzo nunca me decepciona.
Entretenida noveleta de venganza.Se antoja que alguien adapte esta idea a una película pero con tecnología contemporánea y en un contexto de espionaje global del siglo XXI, podría ser una mezcla de Quentin Tarantino con Mr. Robot con Blade Runner (esto último porque también me gustaría que la película fuera de ciencia ficción).Recomendable para pasar el rato sin pensar demasiado ya que todo es digerible y sucede muy rápido.
Felt like a short story and had a few implausibilities. Not very exciting but not completely boring either.
Sedm katů z MnichovaV roce 1967, dva roky před vydáním legendárního Kmotra, publikoval Mario Puzo pod pseudonymem Mario Cleri prózu nevelkého rozsahu, v níž se podruhé – po debutové Temné aréně – vrátil do poválečného Německa.
Její hrdina, Michael Rogan – bývalý kapitán americké rozvědky s geniální pamětí a schopností luštit šifry, chycený gestapem ve Francii a poté několik měsíců mučený v Mnichově společně se svou manželkou Christine, která výslechy nepřežije – se deset let po válce octne na stopě sedmičky mnichovských vyšetřovatelů (jeden z nich je obávaným mafiánským bossem) a přichystá jim osud, který určili původně oni jemu: smrt.
A fast paced and interesting read, its filled with the magic, excitement, ambiance and tragedy that few writers could have delivered better than Puzo.
No Puzo fan should go without reading this story, and and even if your not a Puzo fan but enjoy stories themed on hunting down Nazi War Criminals, I can think of none better than Six Graves to Munich.
The edition which i read did not have the chess pieces on the cover, but I'm a bit sorry it didn't.
When you read this story, the chess piece plays a very creative and satisfying part of the whole affair.
I love a good revenge story and a post WWII setting against Nazis is the perfect backdrop.
There are bits and pieces of the style that made Mario Puzo famous in here, but what makes Six Graves to Munich a weak outing is the lack of character development.
Still though I liked this book, it's like if Mario Puzo was trying to tell his own version of Pulp Fiction except with post World War II backdrop.
However like Fools Die Six Graves to Munich should have gotten a crack at the big screen.
I chose "Six Graves To Munich" by Mario Puzo because I have read another book written by him and I really enjoyed his writing.
Michael Rogan was captured and tortured by some Nazi soldiers.
He travels to Munich, Germany and on the way he has some hardships while killing the Nazi soldiers even though he has been planning his attack for 10 years.
I really enjoyed reading this book because I love the point of view and the overall writing style of Mario Puzo.
I would recommend this book to anyone whole likes reading about organized crime because Mario Puzo and this book is all about the planned murders organized by Michael Rogan.
