https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242006.Running_with_Scissors
I talk about this all the time, so here, definitively, is my explanation of the four categories of memoir. 1) People who have had seriously interesting / crazy lives, and who also happen to be terrific writers, able to render their stories in a compelling, original way (like David Small's brilliant  Stitches , or what I consider the gold-standard memoir, Nick Flynn's breathtaking  Another Bullshit Night in Suck City ).2) People whose lives are interesting / crazy enough that it really doesn't ma
1) People who have had seriously interesting / crazy lives, and who also happen to be terrific writers, able to render their stories in a compelling, original way (like David Small's brilliant 
).2) People whose lives are interesting / crazy enough that it really doesn't matter how well they write, because theirs will necessarily be a compelling, original book just based on subject matter (like 
Any memoir you read goes into one of those categories.Anyway, about this book: I totally liked it, but I feel kind of lied to, having seen the movie first.
This book tested my patience from begining to end and in the end I was very dissapointed.First off, from reviews and the book cover I was given the impression that regardless of the contents within that this was a humurous look at this parcitular authors teenage years.
What I found instead were rampant displays of sloth, decay and enough illegal activities to jail every one of the characters for 5-15 years in a PMIA prison.
Debauchery doesn't disurb me in the slightest and I have a pension for books that provide plenty of shock and awe regardless of the legality.
She wasn't "Let's paint the kitchen red" crazy. She was full on head in the oven, toothpaste sandwich, I am God crazy..paraphrased, but you get it..
I read this book in about four hours.
and because it exists, because it ACTUALLY happened (unlike you, James Frey!!), it merits thoughts about American families in addition to the ironies of self-obsessed psychologies.Written in cute concise prose, even if some jokes do not actually make you laugh but sicken you to the point of feeling truly bad for the preteen hero, the entire account is enormously entertaining, as is evident by the fast consumption of it.The movie is actually bad; despite Anette Bening, the creator of "Nip/Tuck" & the film's director does not go to where this descriptively homosexual, deeply self-reliant misfit of a person goes.
I learned, along with the rest of my reading group, that running with scissors is preferable to reading this book.
Most residents are a bit strange, to say the least, including a 33 year old gay pedophile who likes to eat dog food.With zero parental guidance, role models from hell and a continual..disgusting..dysfunctional..environment, of course Augusten's life was in turmoil; and if even half of what I read here is true, it is a wonder AB made it out in one piece....physically and mentally.As for the good doctor....Good Lord!
Family settles with "Running with Scissors" author, publisherBy Rodrique Ngowi, Associated Press Writer | August 29, 2007BOSTON --A family that claimed author Augusten Burroughs defamed them in his best-selling book "Running with Scissors" has settled a lawsuit against the author and his publisher, their attorney said Wednesday.Burroughs and his publisher, St. Martin's Press, agree to call the work a "book" instead of "memoirs," in the author's note and to change the acknowledgments page in future editions to say that the Turcotte family's memories of events he describes "are different than my own," and expressing regret for "any unintentional harm" to them, according to Howard Cooper, an attorney for the family.
And whether you like him or hate him, the simple fact is that my non-knowledge of his work is a weakness for me as a critic and book reviewer; there are simply so many people familiar with his books by now, so many references made in other literary reviews to his manuscripts, that any decent reporter of the underground needs to make sure they're familiar with him, for no other reason than so they're on the same page as other lovers of the underground.And it's all this, of course, that made it even such a bigger shock than normal when I actually sat down and read two of Burroughs' memoirs, his oldest (the aforementioned Scissors from 2002) and newest (A Wolf at the Table, from 2008), and realized the following: "Oh my God, Augusten Burroughs' memoirs f-cking suck." How can this be?, any intelligent person will ask at that moment -- how can it be that these books have had so much praise heaped on them over the years, when they turn out to be such weak excuses for compelling literature?
He grew up in western Massachusetts to a mother who was probably bi-polar, in what seems like ground zero for inappropriate behavior.
Augusten Burroughs - from his siteWhile one may feel some sympathy for the author, who had difficulties in school, who was very much a free spirit, who had a pretty awful family, and had to cope with the ostracism and hostility engendered by his sexual inclination, he does not seem like a person I would want to know.
One does not have to like the author, or his character in a book, to appreciate the work itself.
It has been said that Truman Capote's last book, "Answered Prayers," cost him the friendship of almost everyone he knew at that time in his life, and it has even been speculated that this contributed to his demise.
He had mined the personal secrets and character flaws of those around him for literary gold, and most probably embellished as brilliant authors often do.
I can honestly say that, If I were a member of the Turcotte household and knew that the events depicted in the book were undeniably false, I would most likely be outraged and choose the same course of action.
When I read this book, I was really appalled that people would classify it as a comedy, and that the makers of the film would treat it as such.
The whole thing just really broke my heart, and it speaks loads about our society that people treat this like a comedy.
But I do have to say that it was really well written, and I would classify it as an important book to read to get a view of some of the psycho things going on in this country.
My brother's account of our childhood and life with the Finches
This book is supposed to be funny?!
Crazy and abusive is not quirky and lovable.
What is so amusing about royally screwing up a child's life?Between books I'd try to get back into this story that was ok but not good enough to grab my attention.
But it's a best seller and raved about how hilarious the book is so I kept trying to stick through it.
I'm all for sad memoirs, but such flagrant abuse of every kind, the kind that require years of therapy, presented without love or reconciliation is not my kind of humor.
I was interested in reading this after getting hints of the story in Burroughs' brother's memoir "Look Me in the Eye".
(I know I go against all my empathetic instincts when I say such things.) I've lived through family weirdness; I've read plenty of other memoirs and novels dealing with it.
(Perhaps the fact that it was made into a ha-ha-look-at-the-crazy-family movie?) Interesting also to consider is the reaction of the family the story is based on.
Either way, the impetus to write it, the way it was written, suggests psychological disturbance to me that is really unsettling.
No, it's really not necessary (and I suspect not true in the least) to write about your childhood pal (view spoiler)[mashing her vagina up against the window (hide spoiler)] to ward off visitors to your house (who the hell would do this?
For the record, I've seen stuff by his real mother, both her poetry writings and her personal accounts, and there's no way she's the same lady (view spoiler)[sleeping around and getting STD's from some random guy, then openly telling her own son about it (hide spoiler)] who is featured in this book.

Most of the time, though, he's not-so-subtly reminding you that he had a terrible childhood, his dad hated him, his mum was crazy, he didn't have anyone, etc.
If I want to read quirky and funny family anecdotes I'll stick with David Sedaris, who doesn't feel the need to suddenly switch to a violin and try to cheaply play on my affections.My copy of the book also came with a preview of Burrough's sequel to Running, Dry. In order to fully stick it out I read this section and rolled my eyes so hard I think I sprained something.
If I didn't want to finish Running With Scissors, then I really won't want to look at Dry. Spare your eyes.
I know the family, I know the ego-crazed and self-indulgent overgrown baby who wrote this book, and I find it not only sloppily written but vicious and hate-filled.
It's a mother-bashing, lesbian-bashing, lying heap of crap.
I wouldn't mind if it were called a novel (which it is).
I only object to its being called a "memoir." Read instead Jackie Leyden's beautiful hymn to the mixed blessings of growing up with a mother who had bipolar disorder, DAUGHTER OF THE QUEEN OF SHEBA.
There is absolutely no comparison between "Burroughs" as he calls himself and David Sedaris.
Sedaris writes from joy.
"Burroughs" writes from hatred.
I love this book. The abysmal movie that was made of it was a travesty, because this book...I relate to the crazy family part, that's all I'm saying about it :)
This book is told in the same sort of slice-of-life way - everything is told chronologically and it all links together to tell the bigger story, but each chapter stands alone, too, and has a segmentary title that contributes to that feeling of many individual moments that coalesce into one's whole life.This memoir was just as hilarious as the other Burroughs that I read, and I found myself both gasping and o_O-ing at the horrid circumstance of his childhood and laughing out loud at his dark humor and plainclothes perception of the madness he grew up mired in.
I read this when it first came out in 2003 and was instantly smitten with Augusten Burroughs.
He cracks me up!
You won't believe that the things he writes about really happened, but allegedly, they did.
I read something recently about the shrink's family and their denial about several things in the book.
Anyway, great read, will have you laughing out loud.
This is not your mother's kind of book, you've got to be young and hip and open-minded to appreciate it.
Burroughs is so witty, you can't help but think he's cool even though he's got his share of problems.
I have to warm you that I am going to give a spoiler here, the spoiler I happened upon as I had just begun reading this book and was just hooked enough by the descriptive style of writing and interesting content that I wanted to continue regardless.
So don't read this, unless you've already read the book.The family that "Augusten Burroughs" focuses most of his memoir around are suing him.
They also say his name is Chris Robison.I found myself reading the name "Chris" in my mind over the place of the haughty "Augusten" that he has dubbed himself, just to gain perspective.
Funny and very well written.The graphic homosexual sex scenes will be too much for some readers but were contextually relevant.
I have tried since reading this to understand Burroughs' quirky, angst obsessive postmodernist world view, and perhaps he cannot put a definite label on it either, but then on the other hand, Burroughs' may be one of those special writers whose opinions and style rightly fit into the "other" category of literary genres and upon which a label does not easily apply.
For this reason, I like his writing very much, and it was a great visit with the 1970s.
Non-conformists of the world unite.
Nevertheless…There is crazy and there is CRAAAZZY.I’d heard of Running with Scissors for years, but hadn’t read the memoir or watched the movie.
I’d begun reading Burroughs’ Dry the other day, but then thought I should start with his first memoir.
In a chapter coyly entitled, “The Joy of Sex (Preteen Edition),” Burroughs’ gives us a long, detailed description of a blow job he – then only 13 years old - gives or is mostly forced to give to his 33 year-old quasi-brother, Neil, who has been adopted by the crazy Finch family, who later adopts Augusten.
Another memoir with witty inclusions of past pop culture, preying on my nostalgia." But then, I couldn't get over Burroughs' memory of the details from the past, such as the ticking of a cooling hair dryer or how he felt when dressed just so.
magazines!), and his childish wish to be flung from the car just made me keep going.So far, so good.***UPDATE***3/27/08This book has gone from weird to disturbing.
I don't know what is more disturbing: the stories or Burroughs' resiliency.
He's become his own patient.I do envy Burroughs' need to write.
He lives with his crazy mother and alcoholic father until he's ten.
His step-sister, Natalie, gives her first blowjob at age 11 and is sold for cash by her father at age 13 to a 41-year-old man who has legal custody of her as his "daughter" but is really having sex with her and also beating her.Many other bizarre and horrifying things happen in this book.
Besides the rampant pedophilia, there's a lot of severe mental illness and some animal cruelty.It's 10x worse since it is non-fiction.My low star rating has nothing to do with Burroughs's writing, but instead with how this book made me feel.
Boring Prose sprinkled with the kind of sensationalism that can only come from a man with the hubris to change his name from Chris Robinson to Augusten Xon Burroughs.I wanted this to be a one-sentence review, because that's all it deserves, but I just can't: XON!!!??? FUCKING XON!!!???? WHERE IS MY GODDAMN INTERROBANG!!!!????? JUST CALL YOURSELF XENU FOR SHIT'S SAKE. CHRISTING FUCKBELLY TURDSQUABBLE.
Deidre sees Dr. Finch for hours each day to deal with her mental illness and Augusten spends lots of time at Dr. Finch’s home on 67 Perry Street in Northampton.
The home is a dump; some of Finch’s patients live in the home along with the doctor’s children and eventually Augusten takes up permanent residence on Perry Street when Deidre makes Finch Augusten’s legal guardian!
Northampton is certainly a place very conducive to this type of zaniness; especially back in the “I’m OK, You’re OK” heydays of the 1970s.To the kind folks at Goodreads – thank you for the book!To the folks thinking about reading this one - WARNING: This is NOT a comedy!
I began this memoir only knowing that it was controversial -- some of the people depicted in these pages claim that Burroughs greatly embellished past events, while Burroughs himself maintains the book's veracity.
But looking back now, I think this was the right decision, as this juxtaposition heightened my feelings of discomfort; I don't think this same effect would have been achieved had he gone with a more somber approach.
I finished the book several hours ago and still feel upset, disturbed, a little depressed.
Again, it's not clear to me if this is more memoir than novel, but I don't think there can be any doubt that Augusten Burroughs knows how to write.
Alternatve Title: Stabbing Yourself with ScissorsI've always looked at this book, picked it up, and put it back down.
Also, look at the cover.
Always judge books by covers!
And he's got a box on his head-he must be crazy!
Still, I'd heard people liked it, so when I came across it in my local used bookstore, I thought I'd give it a try.I got through 20 pages.
First, I am so over "crazy troubled childhood" stories.
Second, I hate books that say "look at this event!
That was really crazy!
I have not even the slightest desire to pick it up and try it again.
