https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239381.Just_a_Mess
Another cute book that loves children. ❤️
only a few provoked true aversion or derision (like the berenstain bears), most merely seemed empty and unsettlingi remember the little critter series for the distinct sense of difficult-to-place discomfort; so much abt the series is immediately and intuitively upsetting, but on second glance it is so profoundly banal as to defy any emotional reaction whatsoever.
the world's symbolic facade thus makes the reader question the rational basis of their initial emotional reaction, indeed makes the reader question their own sanitythere are two elements of the textual world of little critter that i think warrant special attention: the physiognomy of the characters, and the reader's process of moral interpretationthe eponymous "critter" is not identifiable as any one species.
I asked Mom if she had seen it.
I never thought to look there.
What a mess!Premise/plot: Little Critter has a messy room.
(Anyone caught by surprise there?!) Since he can't get anyone to help him clean his room, he decides to do it for himself...in a way that only Little Critter can.
Little Critter's technique isn't all that original.) Will he find his baseball mitt?My thoughts: Perhaps with the exception of Ramona Quimby (did she have a messy room too?) the character I most identified with as a child was LITTLE CRITTER.
The rest of the mess could fit under my bed.
Fun looking for the spider & cricket.
I have read it with the children in my classroom several times, especially when clean up is becoming an issue.
The children think it's quite funny and always have comments on little critters cleaning technique.
:0)Little critter has lost his baseball mitt and his mother suggests he clean his room to find it.
Little critter starts to clean his room by throwing things in the closet and shoving things under the bed.
He ultimately finds his mitt in the process losing his pillow, and then finds that as well.
It seems Little Critters dumping technique works for him.
This is a fun book about a "little critter" who has to clean his very messy room, but does not do it in a way that any mother would accept.
He shoves things in his closet and under his bed.I used this book to prompt a math lesson in which the students had to clean up their unifix cubes, but they had to do it the right way, not at all like the "little critter".
The "right way" to clean up the unifix cubes in this lesson was to make tens.
The students worked as partners to make tens with the unifix cubes.

This book was a good one too. There wasn't a hugely noticeable lesson in the book but it could be used to talk about many things in the classroom. In this book he cant find his mitt in his messy room and eventually ends up cleaning it and finding his mitt. It would be a good lesson for younger kids to keep their rooms clean.
GRL: IDRA: 16
I sort of have a thing for books that deal with cleaning and organizing since I love to do so myself. This highlights a child's way of thinking when it comes to "cleaning their room."
LC learns how helpful it can be to keep your room clean---you just might be able to find your missing things.
This is a great book that many kids can relate too with messy rooms.
classic
It was a good book.
Racine, WI: Western Publishing Company, Inc.This story is about a very messy boy who seems to not be able to find his baseball mitt.
He didn't feel like cleaning his room alone so he asked his mom, dad, and sister to help but they were not interested, he made the mess so he should have to clean it they thought.
He started looking all around his bed and happened to find his baseball mitt.
Suddenly his missing pillow was no longer a priority.I thought the book was okay, it is an easy read for children and they are likely to find the story humorous.
Little Critter is big here.
We pick them up cheap (well, cheaper than they already are) at the local used book store.This book follows just the plot you'd expect - Little Critter loses his baseball glove and is told by his mother to clean his room.
Whatever Little Critter *says* he's doing, you can be sure the picture shows just the opposite.
This is a good narrative convention, and it's never too early to have your kid learn about it through blatant demonstration.And kids like them.
Just a mess by Mayer Mercer Genre: humor and comedy Reading kevel: P-3 grade Format: goodJust a mess is a book about a little critter who is trying to look for his baseball mitt.
He looks outside and he finds nothing.
So then he asks his mother if she can help him find his mitt but she tells him to look for it in his room because she knows he has a mess in his room.
So he tries looking for his mitt in his room and doesn’t know where to start because he has a lot of mess.
Just a mess by Mayer Mercer Genre:	humor and comedy 	Reading kevel: P-3 grade 	Format: goodJust a mess is a book about a little critter who is trying to look for his baseball mitt.
So then he asks his mother if she can help him find his mitt but she tells him to look for it in his room because she knows he has a mess in his room.
So he tries looking for his mitt in his room and doesn’t know where to start because he has a lot of mess.
This book is about how the main character was going to play baseball but he couldn’t find his mitten. He looked everywhere from inside to out. One thing he didn’t notice was he didn’t look hard enough. He looks one last time and …… I recommend this book to kindergartners and first graders because there are smaller words for them to read.
One of my favorites as a child, Just a mess is picture book about a character that refuses to clean his room.
The illustrations really do a fantastic job of depicting clutter to the verge of anxiety.
These illustrations are done in colored pencil, and perhaps watercolors.
I great book with verbiage that challenges the young readers ability to flow through new and familiar vocabulary, but is not too wordy.
The artwork also helps to explain the story without actually having to read a situation in order to fully understand what is happening in the story.
A great read for young readers.
Mercer Mayer, Just a Mess (Golden Press, 1987)Like many kids, Critter will go to any lengths to avoid cleaning his room.
When his mother finally puts her foot down after Critter goes to her complaining that he can't find his baseball mitt, he finds inventive, if not too effective, ways to hide the stuff and make it look like he cleaned up.
Some parents will take offense to the book's conclusion (spoiler alert: he gets what he wants without actually doing any cleaning), but it felt more like a punchline than a moral judgment to me, so I took it for what I figured it was and ran with it.
I love the illustrations and especially Little Critter's friends that help him out - the mouse, frog, spider or grasshopper -that are on the page somewhere if you look (sometimes only one friend but usually two).
I read the stories to my children and then we would look for the friends and talked about whether the friends were happy with Little Critter or what.
It helped my children to really look at illustrations and to see how feelings can be expressed.
Mr. Mayer's books are fun, lovely and just the right length to read and explore anytime.
I think this was super appropriate for situations we go through in the every day life. When little critter has to clean his room to find something is something I relate to. I think every kid cleans the exact same way, with shoving stuff in the closet.He finally found what he was looking for after "cleaning".The illustrations are awesome and they really tell the story as you go along without having to read the words which I think benefits to the younger kids. The book was really cool and really kept you interested.
This book is a classic reader that takes a child's normal problem and allows the reader to find a solution to it. therefore being able to possibly face the challenge in real life. This book in particularly takes a boys messy room and describes his feelings towards not wanting to clean it but in the end he realizes he can do so much more with it clean.
Every child has to learn to clean his or her room. If they do not learn this life skill they will not be able to find any thing and grow up to be unorganized.This little critter decided to clean his room so that he could find his baseball mitt.Children can comprehend what happens first to last in this story.
This book is great for teaching a concept. I think K-2 would benefit from reading these series's they are great books. This book teaches why keeping your room clean is important and how to do so,and the trouble that come with not keeping your room clean. I read these book in K-2 and they were some of my favorite books to read. These series are definitely going to my future classroom bookshelf.
I LOVE Little Critter books I think they are really cute and fun, they were my favorite books to read when I was little and are my favorite to read to kids I babysit. I feel that they do a great job teaching a lesson or showing a common situation that I feel kids can relate too. I also love the pictures and Just a Mess is a great example of both the lesson and the awesome images.
I like this book for many reasons. One, it has a funny, real life story. Second, it uses very simple words for my early readers. Third, it has real-life lessons in it: cleaning your room, finding your toys, being responsible for your own belongings and mess, and one should never 'wash' the bedroom floor with a hose :)
In this hilarious picture-book tale, the very popular Little Critter is forced to clean up his room in order to find his lost baseball mitt. His way of dealing with the mess is fast and funny -- and ultimately successful!
In order to find his beloved baseball mit, a young boy has to clean his room. It is a good lesson story to show students that by keeping their spaces neat and organized, they can save themselves stress later on.
This reminds me of my own cleaning methods for my messy room when I was little: throw some things here, shove some things there. Definitely a funny story and I've always been a huge fan of the Little Critters!
