https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114140.The_Calhouns
These books are great.
The sisters are wonderful and their stories are really enjoyable.
The stories had interesting characters.
When Trent wanted to purchase the hotel, it took everything CC could think of to work it around to her family's advantage.
The second book was A Man For Amanda and I loved it.
They were funny characters and I found this book wonderful.
IT was great that CC and Trent were an active part of this book too.
The third book, For The Love of Lilah, The characters were engrossed in a mystery and a treasure hunt.
I loved them all.
The portrayal of the hero and heroine and their descent into love felt very clumsy, abrupt, and unbelievable.
Also, there wasn't any real falling in love depicted.
Catherine decided she was willing to go all the way with him and suddenly she was in love.
Trent's love wasn't any better though.
A Man For Amanda: 3 StarsI definitely enjoyed this one more than the first book.
Sloan seemed like a beta version of this author's later smooth, charming hero.
The characterization just felt clumsy and abrupt.Max is like the Beta version of her newer nerdy hero.
Good books with good characters, especially the kids- she writes kids well.
The characters and the settings are so good you want to read the same plot again and again, the same kinds of characters over and over indeed,even read the same books over and over again.
The exception is a scene of making love in a thunder storm near an isolated lighthouse near a storm-tossed sea in I forget which book.
And I confess I read and reread her books.
To be truthful I almost gave this book a rating of 2 stars, which I never dreamed I would consider doing for a Nora Roberts novel.
This is not a bad story.
What it is is 3 short stories all based around the same family and the same mystery.
Instead of intertwining the three stories she just has them occur chronologically, with 2 more to follow in the next installment of The Calhouns.
The mystery continues through both books, I assume, since it was not concluded in this one.
Very, very predictable stories and characters.
Loved this trilogy of the Calhoun sisters - easy reading and it makes me want to visit Maine and Bar Harbor!!
It was like reading three books at once. Each character was given her own time. Just sad that in 601 pages they couldn't find the emeralds. The history that was discovered about the family was interesting. A good read. Now need to find the next.
I hadn't read these books by Nora Roberts before, but love her writing.
I found this one in Target and decided to go ahead and read it.
Like her Bride Quartet, these books are pure romance and I loved them.
I am anxious to read the next book about the fourth sister.
The books do follow a certain formula but it is so well written that you really don't mind.
The common theme is love of course, but each couple is different in how they face falling in love and how they deal with the aftermath.
I would highly recommend to anyone wanting a great read for a quick escape from daily life.
Love Nora Roberts, so this was really disappointing. I actually enjoyed the C.C.and especially the Lilah stories, but the Amanda one was terrible. I like myself a man's man, and you can see that's what Roberts is trying to do with the hero in that one, but the guy is just plain an ass. A man behaving that way in real life would be guilty of assault, battery, and sex crimes. In a world where both men and women need to learn and feel confident that No means No, this was a major blunder. C'mon, Nora...you must know better.
Very sweet romance involving three of the four Calhoun sisters as they face the loss of their ancestral home in Maine, struggle with jewel thieves, and attempt to discover the truth behind the death of their great-grandmother.Mild and romantic with a range of characters: the mystical Aunt Coco, the automotively-inclined Catherine, crisp, businesslike Amanda, Lilah the mystical naturalist vying with a hotel magnate, an architect, and a history professor-cum-writer to solve the mystery of lost family heirlooms and the truth behind Bianca's death in 1913.
As with most Nora Roberts books, each story is basically like reading the same story over again - which is not necessarily a bad thing. It's an easy read with a final moment of "oh no", but in the end you feel good each time. I appreciated the mystery involving the emeralds and felt that Ms. Roberts did a fine job in developing that subplot. I plan to read Suzanna and Megan's stories to round out the series.
This book includes the stories Courting Catherine, A Man for Amanda, and For the Love of Lilah.
Courting Catherine -3 starsI think this was a nice start to this series of stories involving the Calhouns.
The inserts that tell the story of Bianca and Christian do not pull me in as much as I think they are meant to.
Overall a fun family, some really good characters, sweet romance and a treasure hunt starting up!
A Man for Amanda- 2 starsThis is the 2nd book in the series.
I thought he was a good character and I had a lot of fun reading his and Layla's story.
This is a collection of four romance stories (not three), each dedicated to one of four sisters, with a connecting storyline. It's an easy read with an entertaining connecting story. It's the overall story that shines, rather than the romances. The romances all have the same sort of elements, and the whole man forces his attention on woman until she swoons thing is overdone. It's also spoiled by numerous abrupt changes in point of view, which disrupts the flow of the story.
If there is ever a writer synonymous with Romance and Magic, for me,iy is and always will be Nora Roberts. This book brings out yet another superb weave of romance and magic and yet another set of strong and resilient women!
I really enjoy Nora Roberts writing style. She adds lovely character descriptions, and she paints her scenery like poetry mixed with a Monet painting. I would read any of her books just to learn my own writing skills through her. Her books are like a master class to me.
Enjoyed this series
Overall, it was a very interesting book. I was disappointed that the necklace wasn't found by the end of the book and that Max and Amanda weren't married.
This book trilogy was not one of Roberts' best. It seemed rushed at some parts and the character building lacked. I hope that the next book gives more answers and questions so my opinions change.
Loved the three books ,the heroines and their partners. Little Alex and Jenny's squabbles, aunt Coco and great-aunt Cordelia all touch the reader .Glimpses of Bianca's life in 1912-13 ,her falling in love with Christian and sudden death add to the mystery of the missing emerald necklace.
I liked that through all these books, each of the girls fall in love, but there is still a family treasure hunt going on.
By then end of Lilah's book, the emeralds are still missing but the sisters are getting closer to figuring out where they.
I liked that these books ran together, and there was still a mystery with the emeralds.
I also liked reading about the Calhoun family history, and how Aunt Coco & Lilah are very much into the spiritual world, and use this to further gain information finding the emeralds.
I thought Bianca's mystery and diary that we get along the way was great, although at times it seemed out of place especially in CC and Amanda's story, but it's much better suited in the following two.
Overall, it was very sweet and very Nora Roberts, although I think since it was the first story of the sisters', CC 's doesn't go as deep as for example, Suzanna's.As for Amanda, I loved Sloan's toughness and western ways, and how if he needed to cart amanda over his shoulders he would.
More time thsey spent together more she was attracted to him...I loved this one, 5 stars.For the love of LilahHistory professor Max Quatermain was hired by a man to dig out stuff about his past, but this man Calufield was a tief that was trying to get his hands on Calhoun emeralds.
Once Max realizes what his employer is trying to do he is forced to either do what he is hired to do or run while he can, but they are sailing the Atlantic, so he jumps in the ocean in the middle of a storm.
These three novels were exactly as my two star rating designates it - just okay.
To be quite honest C.C. was easier to like as a cameo character in the other two novels.
The main difference is that the Dream Trilogy is much better planned out and defined especially in terms of the relationships between each romantic couple and the challenges that they face.I honestly wish I could give this a better review, but as a reader and amateur reviewer, I am obligated to be truthful, and this is definitely one of the least enjoyable Nora Roberts' books that I have ever read.
This series by N.R. is no different.
I thought I was going to have to lower the ranking, but it looks like when I added it years ago to GR, I ranked it pretty fairly.
I think I just can't wrap my head around the insta-love that was (and is to a lesser extent) part of N.R.'s trilogies.
At least now from what I recall of her more recent trilogies, the relationships take at least a few months.
These older series are a matter of days and weeks.
Glad to see NR shut all that down pretty well as she continued writing over the years.
Sloan O'Riley is the architect that's been hired to renovate the Towers and all it takes is one look at Amanda for Sloan to be hooked.
As part of her family legacy, she and her sisters have been searching for the lost emeralds of their ancestor Bianca, and when a thief breaks into the house in search of the treasure, Amanda and Sloan come to blows over how their happily ever after will actually happen.For the Love of Lilah: Lilah Calhoun looks like a siren and can have any man she wants.
This book contains the first 3 out of 5 stories about the Calhoun sisters, their aunt and their haunted family home, The Towers.
Woven into the 3 seperate stories(and into the following 2 stories in the next book) is the continuing mystery of their great grandmother's tragic death and her missing emeralds.
In the first story you meet the youngest Calhoun sister, C.C. She is a mechanic who runs her own shop.
In the second story you meet Amanda, the second oldest a hotel manager that ends up falling for the architect designing the renovation of their home.
In the third story we meet Lilah, the third sister.
I had my flirtations with romance novels.
I've thought about trying to write one, I mean how hard could it be, but never really put in an effort.I got the complete Calhoun collection by Nora Roberts for a few bucks at GoodWill.
I never really got into them, but I can't lie and say they were totally awful either.
I hated that everyone had a happily ever after, although it being a romance novel I didn't expect much else.
The premise was good, if it hadn't been written as a romance novel it might have actually been a good book/book series.www.liveittothefullest.com
I actually give this book a 3.5 star.Nora Robert is a very interesting writer and has several different styles but usually I don't read her because a lot of what she writes is typical romance but sometimes you've just got to read it.
The first third of the book was very good but as each new character took her place the book became predictable and lost some of it's fun but I still didn't want to put it down.
Ms Roberts also paints (writes) beautiful locations that you just makes you want to be there.
Overall not a bad book.
Nora Roberts was and is one of my favorite authors, I love her books!!
so utterly captivating...and I absolutely adore her series books...nobody writes them better (except Lisa kleypas)In this book series you will meet 4 sisters trying their level best to save their ancient historic home, there is their aunt coco, whose busy playing matchmaking....the whole mystery surrounding the house and the emeralds add a whole new dimension to the plot.
Catherine is fiery, hardworking and adorable.amanda is a complete ocd, but really cute.and Lilah is mysterious and bold.
It's fun to watch them falling in love.
I ordered the next right after I finished.Courting Catherine: Catherine is a feisty mechanic and she tries to intimidate Trenton into leaving because she does not want the family to sell their family home.
However, Catherine's fury sparks Trenton's interest...
Interspersed with Bianca's journal entries from the early 1900s.
Man for Amanda: Sloan is not used to being taken down by a woman, but he has no problem returning the favor.For the Love of Lilah: Lilah rescues Max from the Atlantic.
However, will his memory return and will the thieves make another try for Bianca's lost emerald necklace.
This is a really awesome book about romance, treasure and sisterhood. Catherine, Amanda and Lilah are sisters who live in the same house yet lead completely seperate lives. Throughout the three-part book each sister finds the perfect man for them. They face trials with their ailing house that is threatening to fall apart. Each woman goes through a series of obstacles to find out whether they trust the man who loves them. I absolutely loved this book, and I totally reccomend it to anyone. Nora Roberts does excellent work.
