https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222093.City
Although now it may look naïve, simplistic, perhaps even shallow, but at the time it seemed so imaginatively brave, so wide in scope, that it made you dizzy to contemplate it.Simak's book is certainly ambitious.
Simak connects his eight stories with a series of introductory scholarly notes that summarize the opinions of Doggish critics through the centuries (with names like Rover, Tighe, and Towser), who analyze the significance of these fabulous ancient folktales and conjecture that humankind itself may be nothing but a canine myth.Which is “wild,” man, it could “blow your top,” make you “flip your lid”—as my twelve year old self might say.
gosh i loved this one!City is a collection of eight connected stories depicting the future and end of mankind, and the rise of dogs.
the stories in City are tales told and studied by the dog race a millenia in the future.the novel is subtle, nuanced, tender; even-tempered and even-handed.
the kind of novel where, after i finished, all i wanted to do was hug the author for creating it.of particular interest to me was the depiction of a society based on mechanistic ideas compared to that of a society based around more...
i suppose the word would be psychic ideas.
His lesser known book  All Flesh is Grass is the first science fiction novel I ever read, I took to the genre like a duck to water and never looked back since.
It is a fix-up novel comprising nine stories with an interstitial introduction by a dog (stop laughing back there!) for each of the first eight, the ninth story was published more than twenty years after the others, and is introduced by the author.City, in spite of its modest page count of around 224 pages, is epic in scope.
However, an unfortunate side effect of humanity's new lifestyle is just emerging: served by robots and with access to what seems just like the Internet, people don't need to physically 'go' anywhere - and have developed extreme agoraphobic tendencies.· Census · Sep 1944 This third segment definitely works better in the context of the whole than as a standalone.
So far, the first four test subjects have gone out into the wilds of Jupiter - and have not returned.The head of the program may have no moral option but to change tack.· Paradise · Jun 1946 We're now a thousand years from the time of the first story.This one ties in elements of the previous stories: mutants without a social instinct, the promise of an unfinished Martian philosophy (which may actually have been completed by said mutants), robots and intelligent dogs.
This slim white hardcover from the Science Fiction Book Club has caught my eye numerous times over the years, nestled between its bigger shelfmates in my family's science fiction collection.
Simak did an excellent job of linking the stories; I thought the conceit of the story notes added great depth to the ideas put forth in the stories.
The stories the dogs examine span twelve thousand years, starting in a near future with dates now past.
I don't think a single female dog is named in the entire book, and there are only a couple of human women, dismissed quickly.
I have not read all of Clifford Simak's novels (my bad) but I have enjoyed every one that I have read so far and this book is no exception.
The novel is actually a "fix up" series of connected short stories that range from the superb (i.e., 5.0 to 6.0 stars) (the Huddling Place and Desertion) to the very good (Aesops) (i.e., 3.0 to 4.0 stars).
The version I read (listened to actually as it was the audiobook from audible.com) also included the "ninth" story in the City series called "Epilog" which was written over 20 years after the others.
I've heard about this novel (series of short stories that are related closely) for years, always referred to in terms of deep respect and honor, and now that I've finished reading it, I can add my own.It was very clever to throw the viewpoint in from robots and dogs and see the lost civilization of man from their viewpoints, but I found it more interesting to see the complete eradication of so much of Earth's life, seen from Jenkin's point of view.
I might even say this was a feel-good book, and full of optimism.
City is Simak’s second most popular book.In City there are eight connected chapters and an epilogue that together span some 10,000 years of civilization on Earth, Mars and Jupiter.
In the early chapters we see the humans on Earth, centered on the Webster family, grow isolated from one another.
In particular the dogs become frustrated with ants becoming sentient and building large cities (not just ant mounds) From the robot and the Webster family, the dogs learn how humans dealt with ants in the far distant past and the dogs eventually leave and the ant civilization fails.
For me there is always a rich taste in classic Sci Fi which I can’t find in recent stories.
Don’t get me wrong, I enjoy modern sci-fi books as much but there is always a nostalgic feeling in reading classic Sci Fis. City is no exception.
Eight different but related stories told in a future time which there is no sign of man on earth.
Not knowing then that even the name of Man would be forgotten in the dust of years, that the race would come to be known by the name of a single family.Thanks Brad for recommending this book to me.
I’d hazard that after WWII, based on the explosive growth of suburbs and urban jobs, it’s hard to argue that people would move towards a more agrarian existence, although he does give the threat of nuclear attack as an incentive to live more decentralized lives on farms with their dogs and robots.The story proceeds to show how robots become increasingly sophisticated and start to develop intelligence, centered on a faithful robot servant named Jenkins (I wonder if he had the butler’s outfit or not).
I thought it would be a relatively light book to read with the promise of intelligent, talking dogs sitting around a campfire telling stories of Man who no longer ruled Earth and was only a myth to them.
But what I soon discovered was, this book was a heavy, mind-boggling, thought-provoking look at the twin societies of Man and Beast, chronicling the step by step downfall of the former and the rise of the latter.
Starting with an alternative 1950s Simak has written over one hundred thousand years of human history in nine short stories; humbly following the path of one family.The ideas felt fresh, only the optimism dated.
But optimism, in the form of solar punk, is up and coming.
These stories heavily favored non violence and that’s just one of many reasons I think City should be required high school reading above stories like Brave New World, The Stranger, and The Catcher in the Rye.
We should all read more Simak.
The "novel" starts with this intriguing passage.These are the stories that dogs tell when the fires burn and the wind is from the north.
" they'll ask.Or perhaps: "What is a city?"Or"What is a war?"There is no positive answer to any of these questions.Simak is dealing with the extinction of the human race but as is typical for his novels, man does not go out with a bang but a whimper and the universe continues in odd but steady ways.
When Simak's cast of humans, dogs, mutants, robots and insects start rolling the book becomes mesmerizing and thought provoking.
I really wouldn't attempt to read City as speculative fiction, despite the opening stories and the fact that there's space travel and alternate dimensions.
After I saw the reactions of group members to it, I thought I wasn't going to get on with it at all -- totally unscientific, only one or two female characters even mentioned, etc.But then I started reading and the scholarly notes really tickled me.
I've read them before, in a sense, in every book that attempts to piece together whether King Arthur (or any other mythical/legendary figure) really existed.
I managed to read it then as a myth, as a cleverly constructed series of stories creating a myth-that-might-have-been.
Man (Simaks term; we'd say "humans" today, to put it in a sex-neutral way) becomes a forgotten species or a dimly remembered, mythical creature that adult dogs tell stories about to their pups before bed.
I have perused some of the reviews on Goodreads, and many people criticized "City" for painting an unrealistic picture of the future (especially on account of the unrealistic premise that humans could engineer dogs so that they might read and talk).It irritates me when people judge science fiction based upon whether or not the author was able to predict the future.
I still think I love that story best, but the whole book is definitely worth reading.
It's a fun read, with some interesting conceits (a future Doggish society [made up of a race of intelligent speaking dogs], space travel, a society of ants, etc.)2.
Simak himself says that this book was "written out of disillusion" (1) after World War II.
Despite the violence of the 20th century (and the opening of the 21st) and despite Simak's loss of faith in humanity, I believe there is still a chance for us to take a different path.
Jedna od knjiga koja se čita vise puta,na prvi pogled nezgrapno i monotono,a sa toliko slojeva
A really good read. I like the framework used to stitch the stories together, with Doggish academics arguing about whether Man existed or not. The one reason it never truly got off the ground for me is that the science is so clearly wrong and odd, and even though I certainly know this is old and Simak writes very pastoral sci fi, I could not turn off the questioning part of my brain that constantly cried "but that makes no sense!" But it was still good.
რით შემიძლია დაგეხმაროთო?Universal Pictures-ისა და 20th Century Fox-ის საუკეთესო ტრადიციების შესაბამისად, მინდოდა, მეთქვა, არაფერი, თვალში რაღაც ჩამივარდა-მეთქი.
მაგრამ, wtf, ილუმინატორში გავიხედე და გულწრფელობის ღრუბელი გვედგა თავზე ბრანდონ სტარკის კედელივით.
და ვუპასუხე: ეჰ, საქმე იმაშია, რომ ვებსტერები გაქრნენ.
ადამიანები გაქრნენ.
ვერაფრით დამეხმარებით, ვინაიდან მხოლოდ ძაღლები გადარჩნენ და ისინიც მეზობელ სამყაროში შეიხიზნენ, რადგან აღმოაჩინეს, რომ დრო არ არსებობს, და თითოეული წამი საკუთარ თავში გამოკეტილი მაკრო-სამყაროა-მეთქი.
ისიც მინდოდა დამეყოლებინა, ჭიანჭველების ტექნოლოგიურმა ცივილიზაციამ კრახი განიცადა, ძაღლების ექსტრასენსული ცივილიზაციისთვის კი ადამიანი გარდასულ დროთა მითოლოგიური ღვთაება და ახლა უკვე მკვდარი ღმერთია-მეთქი.
მაგრამ, აღარ გადავამლაშე.
საქართველოდან-მეთქი.აჰაო.
Simak is a fix up, or in other words a group of short stories that are connected to form a novel.
It's the story of how men lost the Earth, how dogs and robots took over from man, and how that turned out.After reading the first short story in City I almost gave up on it.
I like it so well that I might actually read this book again just for that story.Fix ups don't always make good novels, it City works as a novel.
With that use Simak has managed to connected them well enough for this to feel like a novel.
U mom svemiru Grad je uvijek u prvih 5!
I have to say that this was quite a disappointment for me and not what I was expecting after reading the excellent Way Station."City" is basically a chronicle of mankind's demise, usually involving characters who are decendents of the Webster family who invariably end up involved in pivotal events in our future history.
The character's usually sounds like hillbillies, even when it's the animals who are talking (yes animals aquire a hereditary ability to talk through vivisection!)The above might well have been largely forgiven but for the fact that the story lines are almost completely devoid of narative tension.
A Simack le bastan ocho cuentos y apenas trescientas páginas para narrar la epopeya de la desaparición del hombre a lo largo de más de doce mil años propiciada por un principio filosófico y en el camino aprovecha para explicar el devenir de cuatro civilizaciones no humanas.
Simack consigue en City lo que cientos de tetralogías y de sextalogías quisieron para sus miles de páginas: un relato coherente y plausible que consigue trascender a sus personajes hilvanando una serie de hechos a lo largo del tiempo para crear un gran cuadro en que encajan todos sus elementos.
ნოდარ დუმბაძეს რო სამეცნიერო ფანტასტიკა ეწერა კლიფორდ საიმაკი იქნებოდაერთდროულად ძალიან სასაცილო და ძალიან სევდიანი წიგნია. იშვიათობაა ეგეთი წიგნები<3
Campbell, who had published all but one of the others in Astounding Science Fiction.) It remains something of a minor classic to this day, having made quite an impact in introducing Simak's pastoral and mournful themes to science fiction.City's frame story comes in the form of academic notes left by humanity's successor, intelligent dogs uplifted by a man named Webster.

For their future generations they tell folktales of what happened to the humans, and why the dogs and robots still continue to do what they do.The Fourth and Fifth Tales change the focus from Earth by looking at the humans who have left the Earth.
By the Sixth Tale Jon Webster tells of how the Earth has become mechanised, with robots producing all that is required by humans, with no need to work, shop, or farm, no government and no religion.
Tale Seven, Aesop, tells of robot Jenkins, now seven thousand years old and his mentoring of the dogs and humans to ensure their survival in the future.
Може би дълбоко в себе си аз се опитвах да създам свят, в който аз и други обезверени хора биха могли за момент да намерят убежище от този, в който живеехме.
Казват, че разказите били обвинение срещу човечеството, възможно е и да не съм мислил така по онова време, но сега виждам, че те наистина са такива, и вярвам, че тогава е имало и все още има основание за такова обвинение.
" К.СаймъкНе е нужно да обичате фантастиката , но ще харесате тази книга ,защото тя е толкова актуална и днес , човечеството и неговата натура за самоунищожение е подложена на критика от великият Саймък в един шедьовър
სამეცნიერო ფანტასტიკის დიდი მცოდნე და მოყვარული არასდროს ვყოფილვარ, ყოველ ახალ წიგნს ჟანრული პროზიდან იმ იმედით ვკითხულობდი, რომ მხოლოდ კი არ გავოცებულიყავი მწერლის უზომო ფანტაზიით, არამედ შემყვარებოდა მისი ყოველი მიგნება ისევე, როგორც ამას სხვები ახერხებდნენ. "ქალაქი" აღმოჩნდა ასეთი გარდამტეხი წიგნი ჩემთვის, რომელიც რაღაც ისეთი წარმოუდგენელი ემოციის მატარებელია, რომლესაც ერთი მკითხველის გული ვერ დაიტევს.ვერც ერთი გუდრიდის რევიუ.წესით, ვერც ერთ წიგნს უნდა მოეხერხებინა ეს, მაგრამ მოახერხა და ამიტომაა ერთ-ერთი ყველაზე საოცარი რამ, რაც კი წამიკითხავს.
Un futuro che arriva molto lontano, non sappiamo bene neanche fin dove, ed infatti, io che di solito mi indispettisco quando i titoli stranieri vengono stravolti, ho apprezzato il titolo che Giorgio Monicelli aveva scelto nel 1953 per i lettori italiani: “Anni senza fine”.I primi otto racconti che formano questa raccolta sono racchiusi da una cornice che ho trovato divertente, a parlare con competenze filologiche sono infatti dei cani.
Il nono racconto, invece, scritto solo nel 1972, molto più tardi del nucleo originale, è accompagnato da una nota dell’autore che motiva la sua scelta di scriverlo.Senza dilungarmi troppo sul futuro descritto da Simak, dirò che mi ha colpita particolarmente la bontà e il senso di altruismo con cui l’autore caratterizza i suoi personaggi.
