https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373915.20th_Century_Ghosts
Hill, the son of Stephen King, inherits his father's empathy for the ordeals of childhood as well as his artfulness in constructing a tale, but he also possesses a warmth and an elegance all his own.
There is the self-aware, post-modernist work in which a well-known anthologist gets savagely schooled by a contributor about what constitutes "The Best in Modern Horror," the unsettling tale about the effect of family disguises and games on a son ("My Father's Mask"), the powerful, sustained novella about an autistic brother who can construct marvelous, imprisoning labyrinths, a story which never loses its horror or its humanity ("Voluntary Committal"), or the masterpiece--I do not use the term lightly--about an "inflatable" childhood friend ("Pop Art") that has something to teach every reader about disability and transcendence.
Absolutely wonderful book. This is a collection of stores that will have you crying, checking for monsters under the bed, and wondering how the hell Joe Hill came up with that.Comparisons to Joe's dad will be unavoidable, especially from those of us who read Night Shift and Skeleton Crew at a certain age ... and though I believe Joe has more than earned the right to be far, far out of his father's shadow, I say with love that the comparisons are well-deserved. This is a sensational collection, and very much worth your time.
4 stars for the 1st half, 2 for the second = 3"20th Century Ghosts" - There was a delicacy to this haunted movie theater story that I appreciated, although I felt it ran too long (or rather, too wordy) for what it was.
You know, Joe, it would be okay to write non-fiction if you felt like it.
3 starsOkay, so having read 4 stories and 3-starred all, I feel like I don't need to read the remainder.
I feel like this collection is not-onerous task rather than a pleasure, and I have better things to read.
4.5 stars!My favorite stories were:Pop Art20th Century GhostBetter Than HomeMy Father's MaskVoluntary Committal My thought on this collection cannot possibly make a dent in all of reviews already written about this book. Suffice it to say: I loved it and it gets my highest recommendation.
“20th Century Ghosts” is less about ghosts than other sorts of boogeymen: more subtle, more scary, and all definitely weird.It starts off with a traditional story (“Best New Horror”) about a horror anthology editor trapped in something like one of his own tales: despite the story-within-the-story structure of the first part, this tale becomes highly predictable towards the end and falls rather flat.
I did itI finishedthe only story I couldn't make it through was the cockroach one.I much prefer his full length novels
Joe Hill makes me feel like I'm seven again.
More specifically, I'm seven and he is the nine-year-old kid down the street hanging out with me in my tree fort telling me scary stories and urban legends that he swears are true.
One story called Pop Art was not scary in the traditional sense.
This short story collection is quite good.
As with any collection of shorts, I liked some more than others but I give this extra credit for variety and interesting endings.
For most of the stories here, I quickly felt that I could settle back in my chair and let Hill lead me wherever he wanted.
Best New Horror looks at both the world of small magazine/journal publishing and Hollywood movie clichés.
The narrator is a boy with an inflatable friend and even in a book of ghost stories it was too allegorical to allow any emotional engagement.
Abraham’s Boys brings Van Helsing to America, wonders how he might be welcomed in the New World, and what sort of father he might be.
Hill stretches a bit in defining what constitutes a ghost story.
He makes me believe in ghosts and the supernatural, but even more in the power of a simple story.
In this one, the getting there may be better than the finish.20th Century Ghost - Very much a character-driven piece about a young woman who haunts the Rosebud theatre, and Alec Sheldon the man who spends his life there because of it.
Didn’t think I would like it, but I surely did.Abraham’s Boys - Is their father a vampire hunter, or simply an abusive man who found an excuse to kill?
Hill writes about life in so many different ways.
Short story collections can be hit or miss.
Every story in “20th Century Ghosts” is wonderful, some are even superlative.
While Hill is a horror writer, not all of the stories in this book are horror.
Hill throws in a terrific little story as an encore.
I have to admit that I am now a Joe Hill fan and will be on the lookout for his next book.
His work isn’t formulaic; and, as some of his short stories prove, he leans more towards psychological horror than blood & gore.
I highly recommend Joe Hill’s work for anyone who wants a good read.
Είναι γραμμένα από την οπτική γωνία ενός συγκεκριμένου ήρωα, κάθε φορά.
Παρακολουθούμε την καθημερινότητα του ήρωα και περιμένουμε να γίνει κάτι.
αλλά στην δική μου περίπτωση σοκ, ξάφνιασμα και μια δυσάρεστη αίσθηση… Δεν πέρασα καλά, στον τρόμο ψάχνω πάντα την ανατριχίλα, εδώ βίωσα μια μουντίλα, μελαγχολία και ένα μίζερο αίσθημα, που κάθε φορά που έκλεινα μια ακόμη ιστορία, για να μου περάσει, έτρωγα από μία σοκολάτα.
Το αποτέλεσμα έπειτα από κάθε τέλος, ένα ξαφνιασμένο ύφος αγελάδας, το ερωτηματικό «τι διάβασα μόλις τώρα;» και προφανώς 1-2 κιλά παραπάνω… (ευτυχώς που δεν είναι καλοκαίρι).
Το βιβλίο είχε τα πάνω του και τα κάτω του. Κάπου στη μέση η βαθμολογία.
Todos tenemos distintos silencios.
¿Acaso su marido tiene el mismo silencio cuando está contento que cuando está enfadado?
Hay algunos que son extraordinarios, como La ley de gravedad, Madera muerta y Reclusión voluntaria.
Los demás son regulares y tiene varios que no lograron atraparme.
Son excelentes.Desde fantasmas hasta una amistad mágica, Joe Hill me llevó de recorrido por unos relatos maduros, muy bien escritos, que son como tienen que ser: besos fríos que lentifican la corriente sanguínea.
Son pequeñas obras que te dan tanto como lo que te sacan.
Los mejores cuentos hacen valer la pena a todo el libro.
I’d go as far to say that Pop Art is one of the best things I’ve read all year and is up there with Loaded which is one of Hill’s stories in Strange Weather.
I think I read the scariest thing ever in Best New Horror:‘He made holes in my eyes and he said after he did it he saw my soul rush out.
‘He wants to see how long I can live without a soul inside me.’Although mostly horror, Hill has some nicer stories in this collection and all of the stories are about the people in them and not just an excuse for some horror porn like other collections.
This was the most awful grueling book to get through.
The stories had great starts (some of them anyways) but then just ended with no warning, and not even at a place that really made much sense.
Some of these stories I think could have made an excellent book on their own had they been fully completed.
It was very difficult to make my way through these stories.
I kept hoping they would get better or I'd find one really great story in the mess.
Some really grabbed my interest in the begining but then just went dead...like a dud firecracker.
Up to recently, I had three of Joe Hill’s novels (Heart-Shaped Box, Horns, NOS4A2) in hardcover and although 20th Century Ghosts was easily accessible in paperback or for download on my Kindle, I felt I needed to match my existing format and seek out the rare hardbound edition.With every second-hand bookstore I entered, this illusive short story collection was front and centre in my mind.
It is a sad, coming of age tale about two friends who experience profound loss - did I mention one of them is an inflatable human?I still struggle with short story collections in that I’m so accustomed to long-form fiction that reading several tales in one session tends to burn me out a lot faster.
Loved it!!! Loved it!!!! Loved it!!!!!These stories have got to be the best in any collection I have ever read. Hill's imagination is a wild ride I would stand in line for all day. I can't get enough from this man! Spooky, scary, frightening and just down right crazy... I love it all.
I love Fall. Football has returned to the airwaves. The leaves are changing colors, and there’s a cold snap in the…oh, who am I kidding. This is Texas. If we’re lucky, it will only be 85 degrees with 95% humidity as you’re reading this. Still, I really do like the  idea  of Fall, though, and if I have to make my own chill, well, then, so be it. The best way I know of to bring a chill to the air is to break out the scary stories. Luckily for us, one of the finest collections of contemporary horro
Luckily for us, one of the finest collections of contemporary horror stories has just been released in the US.Some of you may have picked up a debut novel this past Spring called Heart-Shaped Box by Joe Hill (If you didn’t, go ahead and grab one now.
But you might not know that way back in 2005 a British publisher called PS Publishing took note of a spate of award-winning stories by a new American author and collected them all together into a book called 20th Century Ghosts.
You need “Year’s Best Horror.”20th Century Ghosts is a terrific collection, and one that really makes use of Joe Hill’s talents.
Joe Hill has a true gift for the short story.All short story collections are somewhat hit and miss with me.
It cannot be denied that his stories flow smoothly, and this goes for the best as well as the worst of the lot.There really aren't any bad stories in this group.
Some are better than others, and a few left me unsatisfied.
"Pop Art", "Abraham's Boys", "Bobby Conroy Comes Back from the Dead", "My Father's Mask", "Voluntary Committal", and "Better Than Home" were stories that will stick with me for a long time indeed.Often when I read a collection, certain stories make me wonder if I've wasted my time.
The title seems false and the stories are lame. 0 of 10 stars
It wasn't until I finished Heart Shaped Box (which was in slightly less perfect condition in comparison to 20th Century Ghosts) and went in search of more Joe Hill goodness on Amazon that I found out that Hill is Stephen King's son.
Other notable tales are "20th Century Ghost", "The Black Phone", "The Cape" (which has one of the best endings I've ever read where short stories are concerned), and the uber imaginative "Voluntary Committal".
That one story slowed the book down and gummed up the collection's works so badly I was compelled to knock off a full star from the overall rating.
What a marvel..Pop Art!
Možda je povećalo utisak što sam polako čitao ( nisam sve odjenom ) pa su priče ostavile mnogo bolji utisak .Pokušat ću kratko o svakoj priči po nešto napisati :Best New Horror (3/5)Ovo je prva priča u kojoj me je Hill "šokoraio" i ostavio nam jedan , pa hajmo reći , otvoren kraj .
Zanimljiva ideja , ali mi nije sjela nakon Pop Arta .
Veoma zanimljiva ideja koju bi mogao zamisliti kao jedan film .Dead-Wood (1/5)Najslabija priča u knjizi .
Ali dajem 4,5, baš zbog toga što se priča može interpretirati na više načina .
If you are not a fan, it would be better for you to let this one go.I had to choose only three stories to talk about, I would love to share my thoughts of all of them, but it would become quite a big review, not that is a short one now or that someone actually gives a damn about my thoughts.1.Best new horror: A horror magazine publisher reads for a first time in many years an original story.
The plot is not anything new and the reason I ( and dare I say many people ) don’t enjoy most of the horror fiction (movies or books), is that the genre struggles from originality.
*Re-Read (audio) in 2015 (originally read in 2010)*4.5 starsThis is a great story collection, which is interesting, because I was pretty disappointed by author Joe Hill's first two novels,  Heart-Shaped Box  and  Horns . I thought they both started very strong and then fizzled about half-way through. Maybe Hill is better writing in the short form?The theme running most of these stories are kids coming of age through unexplained events and phenomenon that will stay with them forever, even as they
*Re-Read (audio) in 2015 (originally read in 2010)*4.5 starsThis is a great story collection, which is interesting, because I was pretty disappointed by author Joe Hill's first two novels, 
Maybe Hill is better writing in the short form?The theme running most of these stories are kids coming of age through unexplained events and phenomenon that will stay with them forever, even as they get older.
I would recommend this to anyone that enjoys coming of age tales and horror stories.
A collection of short stories where GRs and readers categorised them as horror.H O R R O R.If you look up the meaning, it would say: An intense, painful feeling of repugnance and fear.The title itself, The 20th Century Ghost should evoke goosebumps and scary images but after reading each one of them, they didn't even remotely conjure what I expected to feel.
I've read some of the low star rating reviews and (they) have mirrored my feelings.
HORROR.My preferred ones:20th Century Ghost - Not a horror at all but a love story.
A nice, but still creepy, "love" story for horror buffs.Pop Art - The best short story that I have ever read.
I feel like Joe Hill, at this point, already does short stories better than his dad.In the Rundown - Okay at best.The Cape - My third fav after Pop Art. Gave me the chills.Last Breath - Very chilling.
Would have liked just a story about them.Bobby Conroy Comes Back from the Dead - Eh. One of my least favorite.
If I hadn't already read Pop Art, then this would be my fav short story.
Πιο συγκεκριμένα:1) Η καλύτερη ιστορία τρόμου της χρονιάς: Αυτή η ιστορία μου άρεσε γιατί περιλαμβάνει μία καινούρια ιστορία μέσα στην αρχική ιστορία.
Κάτι σαν το inception αλλά σε σελίδες (η ιστορία του Κονκάρδα μου άρεσε πολύ περισσότερο από τη βασική).2) Το φάντασμα του σινεμά: Σίγουρα δεν είναι τρόμου αλλά πιο πολύ ερωτική/αισθηματική.
Και πάλι θα μπορούσε να γράψει λίγο παραπάνω.8)Φτερά στα πόδια: Μέτρια… Όχι κάτι ιδιαίτερο.9)Η μπέρτα: Από τις αγαπημένες μου.
Είναι πολύ ατμοσφαιρική (εξάλλου πιστεύω ότι οι περισσότερες ιστορίες τρόμου με μάσκες είναι κάπως φρικιαστικές) αλλά ήθελε λίγο παραπάνω για να πιάσει το 5/5.15)Εθελούσιος εγκλεισμός: Εδώ νομίζω παραέγραψε.
Αν, αντίθετα, αποζητά κανείς να διαβάσει μερικές καλογραμμένες, διαφορετικές μεταξύ τους, σύντομες ιστορίες, με στοιχεία από τον χώρο του φανταστικού, του αλλόκοτου και του παράδοξου, έχει κάνει μια σοφή επιλογή• διότι ο J.
Hill στα Φαντάσματα του 20ου Αιώνα (20th Century Ghosts) προσφέρει στον αναγνώστη του αυτό ακριβώς: σύντομες διηγήσεις, δοσμένες αριστοτεχνικά, από έναν συγγραφέα που (από το πρώτο του κιόλας βιβλίο) δείχνει να κατέχει καλά την τέχνη της γραφής και της μυθοπλασίας.
Last but not least, ιδιαίτερη μνεία αξίζει να γίνει σε μιαν ακόμη ιστορία αυτού του βιβλίου που επίσης δεν έχει οποιαδήποτε σχέση με τρόμο, αλλά αναβλύζει ατόφια θλίψη: το διήγημα Pop Αρτ, αυτό το συγκινητικό τραγούδισμα στη φιλία, αυτός ο ανυπέρβλητος ύμνος στη διαφορετικότητα και την ανθρωπιά.
The more I think about this book, the more I appreciate what an original and diverse collection of short stories it is.Most definitely worth a read if you like story collections. The ones I found a little too unsettling to 'enjoy' were simultaneously intriguing.My personal favourite was 'Pop Art'.
