https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11289.The_Rise_of_Endymion
I finally got through to the end with most of my marbles still in the bag they came in.It’s almost impossible to give a summary of this without spoiling the previous book so I’ll just say that Aenea and Raul Endymion continue their interstellar journey to fulfill her ultimate destiny as the powerful forces of a corrupted Catholic Church and the artificial intelligences of the TechnoCore try to stop them by increasingly desperate means.
It’s still an excellent series and one of the most ambitious sci-fi stories I’ve read.
Stepping off the ledge, Raul and Aenea, glide in the air with their artificial wings, high above the never seen ground, many miles under, any mistake will plunge them into the deadly, nearby gas clouds, or treacherous mountain cliffs, but the thrill of flying like birds, soaring and diving , seeing new sights , that are indescribably beautiful and intoxicating , pure ecstasy , in fact, as long as it is possible, to remain there, but they need to reach a distant village soon, in order to escape, time is running out...The last of the enchanting, entertaining , and electrifying , series, for any sci-fi fan...
There's Dan Simmons sitting at his desk, finger poised over a computer keyboard.
In the place of letters, each key has a different literary torture: "moldy info dump forced down throat", "insufferable protagonist buzzes on face but can't be swatted", "new ideas generate excitement, but take off masks to reveal tired concepts from three books ago", and of course "sex scenes that cause genitals to shrivel".
I have to live with the knowledge that my torturer was none other than Dan Simmons, the same man who wrote Hyperion, one of the top sci-fi novels of the last three decades and a personal favorite.

The book is overlong, with huge sections that just serve no legitimate purpose, such as Raul's time in the Temple Hanging in Air. Simmons' extends his work as much as he can to give it an "epic" feel, but it ends up seeming boring and goofy.Raul's love for Aenea continues to border on pedophilia for the first few hundred pages of the work, and then it graduates to simple obsession, if only because she's grown up.
This book is simply awful.
I'd recommend the first two books in the Hyperion saga, but stay well away from ENDYMION and THE RISE OF ENDYMION.
After four years on Old Earth, Raul Endymion resumes the voyage on the river Tethys to find the Consul's ship.
Will Aenea fulfill her destiny and end the Pax's reign once and for all?I have to admit, I was skeptical for the first half of this book.
The plot came togerther and by the end, it surpassed Endymion.
I saw the ending coming but I still liked it quite a bit.It's not as great as the first two books of the Cantos but The Rise of Endymion is quite the satisfactory conclusion to the saga.
The plot "twist," if it was meant to be one, was pretty damned obvious immediately.Again, de Soya was much more compelling than any of the major characters, and he's relegated to an even less important role in this book.
Seriously.Edit 12/20/11: I had to come back and remove another star simply because I remembered how ridiculous the whole (view spoiler)[kidney stone (hide spoiler)] thing was.
(hide spoiler)]
Finally I have finished the entire Hyperion Cantos, the series than began with the all-time sci-fi classic Hyperion, almost concluded in The Fall of Hyperion, launched a second arc in Endymion and ends here with The Rise of Endymion.
This is not one of those series that can be read out of sequence, in fact The Rise of Endymion continues directly from the previous volume Endymion.
The book is also very romantic, optimistic and yet kind of tragic.I am glad I have finished the entire series, but the first two books classic Hyperion and The Fall of Hyperion remain two of my all-time favorites which I would like to reread some day.
Their control was established by finding a way to provide "eternal life" to all who accept the church--the "cruciform" from Books 1 and 2.
In Books 1 and 2, the cruciform causes decreased mental acuity with each rebirth until one is barely a living automaton, but the church somehow figured out how to fix that issue so that the rebirth bestows full personality and mind back again.Aenea, Raul and Bettick are essentially on a mission to break this control over human society and convince humanity to reject the cruciform.
Not good.In the end, I'm glad that I read Book 4 in order to find out how the entire story came together.
This proved to be a satisfying conclusion to the Endymion duology and the Hyperion Cantos series as a whole.
The quality of the series remained consistent throughout and Dan Simmons did a fantastic job of wrapping up all the ongoing story arcs and mysteries.
The strengths of the Hyperion Cantos series is the complexity of the plot, the depth of the well imagined sci-fi universe, and the quality of Simmon's writing.
All in all I enjoyed this final book in the Hyperion Cantos.
I did not love every single development or revelation, but I was happy in a general sense with how things concluded and will happily read more of Dan Simmons books in the future.
That’s not to say it doesn’t have its flaws, particularly in the last two volumes–which take place 300 years after the first two, and feature Raul Endymion as their first person narrator as he fights to complete his mission: to keep Aenea “The One Who Teaches” safe, to end the threat of the Pax (the Roman Catholic church run amok and crazed on power–it’s complicated), to find Old Earth and return it to its former home, and to insure the future of humanity.
I wish it would have been more of a surprise for me.)So in summation, if you like science fiction READ THIS SERIES.
If I hadn't loved the first 2 books so much I would have gladly cut and run.
Some books I read are fast-paced and enjoyable but when trying to think of things to talk about in a review a few weeks later I find I've forgotten everything about them (and yet I manage to expertly bluff my way through the review in order to harvest those sweet, sweet likes).
However after finishing these books (even the slow third one) I find myself thinking fondly of the characters and setting and contemplating the philosophical and literary themes that play such a major part in this series.Full review to come....
He kills the wonderful momentum he’s built about halfway through the book by indulging himself in an orgy of mountain-climbing minutiae and introducing sixty fucking new characters who have a questionable reason for existing and contribution to the plot.
This is clearly a man who’s fucking just going for it and if in the end it’s a failure, it’s a glorious failure that deserves to stand next to brilliant successes.
I veered from being terrified to laughing out loud (this usually involved scenes with the wonderful Martin Silenus) to being completely awe-struck by the concepts and settings Simmons spins out at a ridiculous rate to feeling like I wanted to fucking cry like a baby.
Halfway through the book I paused and checked to make sure I wasn't reading Twilight.
The evolution into a love story was forced and I felt absolutely none of the chemistry and undying love and loyalty that was supposed to have grown between Raul and Aenea.
Both of those names made me pause almost every time they cropped up because of the weird pronunciations (and since he took the time to point it out it stuck in my brain).
And the forced "I'd do anything for her", "she's my beloved" etc sections were so nauseating.
I hate this book.
I hate the main character.
When I read Hyperion, I had real investment in the characters-- making it through their quest alive (or not, but that's also a testament to how fantastic the story and character development were-- I had strong opinions about all of them), finding resolution, etc.
By The Rise of Endymion, most of those characters are long dead, and the neurotic, whiny moron who took over made reading a chore.
He whines constantly, the other main character who he's in love with is...
I've ranted about this a bit in my review of book 3.
On my list of All Time Favorites (along with the other three books of the Hyperion Cantos).
In my opinion, along with the Dune series, the Hyperion Cantos is the best SF space opera series ever written and Dan Simmons is one of the best writers working today.
Hyperion is a recognized classic in SF, but I believe that the other three books in the Cantos, The Fall of Hyperion, Endymion and this novel are equally superb and I think readers are really missing out if they stop at the first novel.
Winner: Locus Award Best SF NovelNominee: Hugo Award Best NovelNominee: British SF Award
The conclusion of the book, while bittersweet in the best Sol and Rachel tradition, is nowhere near as clever or unexpected as Simmons seems to think it is, so we are treated to further pages and pages of angst as the book's dimwitted hero, Raul Endymion, tries to muddle through a mystery which the reader will have figured out 800 pages ago.
Essentially, this book is way longer than it needs to be, and anyone wanting to know the conclusion to the tale of Hyperion would be well advised to stick to the easily skippable written pages and to stay away from the audiobook version.
It was retconning it's own canon and ruining the mythos it has in the name of some cheapened extension of the tale.
The mysteries and unknowable nature of The Core, the shrike and the history of its characters are abandoned in the name of some hack-kneed messiah tale that fails as both romance and science fiction.
It's overly long, riddled with psuedo-philisophical stupidity, and just when you hope it will redeem itself it shits the bed and leaves you no longer mad...just sad that something once so noteworthy could fall to...this.Read Hyperion.
Read Hyperion Falls.
Then stop.
I liked the love story in the Endymion and didn’t much care for it in Rise of Endymion.While the ending is sweetly and tragically poignant, the path to that ending was built on a love relationship that reached apotheosis in, of all things, sex.
It helps characters literally understand the universe and, as Aenea’s way is incompatible with the parasitical immortality, very much represents the death of the ego.AND YET the love story between Raul and Aenea is primarily vulgar eros.
Because that's what you're going to get.Listen, if you want to hook me the best idea is to not front-load the book with Buddhistic death-worshiping philosophy.
Also, what are we to make of the fact that in Hyperion (view spoiler)[Moneta uses the same sort of phase shifting technology as Rhadamath Nemes does in Endymion and Fall (hide spoiler)], but Aenea says that (view spoiler)[phase shifting is an unconscionable abuse of the Void Which Binds (hide spoiler)]?
By the end I was sick to death of (view spoiler)[Raul calling Aenea "my dear friend" and "kiddo" even though they were going at it like bunnies for the entire latter half of the novel (hide spoiler)].
I put off reading Endymion/Rise of for a long time (like several years) because a lot of people I knew seemed not to think much of them and I already wasn't quite as impressed with Fall of Hyperion as the Chaucerian original.
Endymion itself was pretty good, a little more action oriented and lacking some of the i guess metatextual depth that I most appreciate Simmons's other novels for, but I did appreciate seeing the long term impact of the classic Priest's Tale from Hyperion.
Aenea and Raul's relationship is developed very well throughout the 10 year time span of these two novels, and particularly beautifully written in the latter half of this one.
It was inevitable. Hyperion was just too damn good not to bite the bullet and read the last installment and get full closure on what everything means. So, at the end of it all, was it all worth it?Well, all questions are answered, but no, not really. This was just way too much reading and time invested.But, I do wish I could erase all memories of the first Hyperion novel and read it over again. It really was spectacular.
Rise of Endymion: The Epic Conclusion of the Hyperion Cantos seriesRise of Endymion ties together all the events of of the earlier Hyperion sequence and Endymion, taking us deep into a very different galactic milieu dominated by a reinvigorated Catholic Church, in an epic struggle for supremacy with the genetically modified Ousters, super-powerful AIs with cryptic agendas, and a young girl named Aenea, who may be the Messiah of a new era, and her companion Raul Endymion.
It is largely a milieu story, as Simmons spends far more time describing the worlds Raul visits, their inhabitants, and the many tangential occurrences in these settings than he does moving the plot forward.
In another example, after arriving on an unknown world, Raul spends dozens of pages describing the sky, storms, and voicing his tiresome, repetitive internal dialogue.There is so much unnecessary rambling in this novel that I was tempted -- many times, in fact -- to skip ahead.
For example, When Aenea and Raul are reunited after years of time debt, they have a lot of sex, and Simmons indulges us with every raunchy detail.
Aenea debe convertirse en La Que Enseña, en la persona que cambiara la historia para siempre, pero tanto Pax como el TecnoNúcleo harán todo lo posible una vez más para capturarla, regresando sus antiguos perseguidores, el padre capitán Federico de Soya y la letal Rhadamant Nemes.Este último capítulo trata de desarrollar nuevas ideas y solucionar los temas que había dejado pendiente, mostrando respuestas inesperadas a algunas de las incógnitas que nos asolaban desde las primeras páginas de Hyperion o cambiando nuestras certezas absolutas que teníamos como referencia de las anteriores entregas.
The closing volume of the Hyperion series had a huge emotional impact on me. By now, I cared about the new characters, whose fates at the end of the series are serious and sometimes difficult to read. Simmons also brings his ideas to full fruition and posits some interesting observations about humanity and our place in the Universe. This is thoughtful, adventurous fiction. I will return to it for the rest of my life.
I liked it okay, but I know a lot of people who love this series and periodically reread it, and I have no desire to.As with the first duology, Hyperion and The Fall of Hyperion, the second book is actually better than the first; Endymion set up the final confrontation between the Pax, the Ousters, and the TechnoCore, and the final book resolves it.
Indeed, perhaps that it what impresses people the most with this series: its epic scale spanning the rise and fall of several interstellar civilizations that nonetheless remains focused on individuals and reveals careful, meticulous planning, with groundwork laid all the way back in Hyperion.
Whilst reading 'Endymion' I did not consider Raul, Aenea and A.
I started and finished this whilst on holiday, but most of that holiday was actually spent in this universe.The Rise of Endymion is complex in places, as it is bringing together the whole story which started nearly 300 years ago.
I am glad to have had the pleasure of reading this book, and the others in the Cantos, but I am also sad to say goodbye to the characters and the worlds that I have visited throughout this wonderfully journey.
In the same way, her romance with Raul and the inevitability of it, up to and including the predictability of the conclusion, just makes me yawn.For a book about interstellar warfare where the stakes are the future of the human species’ development, there is remarkably little conflict at times.The TechnoCore’s master plan turns out to be ho-hum, pretty standard run-of-the-mill evil AI stuff.
Were they all rolling natural 20s?Like the series as a whole, The Rise of Endymion’s strength lies mostly in the scope of its ideas and the ways in which Simmons explores them through his characters, rather than the characters themselves.
I have finished this, what might well be the best science fiction series I have ever read.
He touched so many topics that I hold close to my heart.
It is the only thing I have read since Erikson's the Malazan Book of the Fallen that has crawled so deeply under my skin, and had such a deeply positive message.
But the view other voices are distinctly different form him, and their core values comes through in their every word.
I could waffle one, but that would be time you could spend reading this jewel of Science Fiction.Do it
