https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154126.The_Discovery_of_India
It is but folly for me to attempt to review a book so close to my heart. But, on my third reading of this book, it is time to finally go beyond the beauty of the prose and the elegance of Nehru’s presentation. It is time to see if the book achieves the objectives it sets out to achieve and judge it thus. I will let my earlier one-line review stand. Here goes…The following passage reflects the objective of the book.  To know and understand India one has to travel far in time and space, to forget
To know and understand India one has to travel far in time and space, to forget for a while her present condition with all its misery and narrowness and horror, and to have glimpses of what she was and what she did.
'To know my country', wrote Rabindranath Tagore, 'one has to travel to that age, when she realized her soul and thus transcended her physical boundaries, when she revealed her being in a radiant magnanimity which illumined the eastern horizon, making her recognized as their own by those in alien shores who were awakened into a surprise of life; and not now when she has withdrawn herself into a narrow barrier of obscurity, into a miserly pride of exclusiveness, into a poverty of mind that dumbly revolves around itself in an unmeaning repetition of a past that has lost its light and has no message for the pilgrims of the future.'
Still the best history book I have read in my life. Ah, the wonders we lose when geniuses go into politics.
This is a good attempt at presenting a picture of India. Good for the students of history but yes, there are facts which might be disputed. Well, history (and of India) is full of points of conjecture because the historians' attempt at making things tilt towards a particular side.
A number of reviewers have noted that Discovery of India and Glimpses of World History were written during the years Nehru languished in British custody for sedition and civil disobedience.
What none of them, nor the publisher, have pointed out is that these books were culled from hundreds of letters that Nehru wrote to his daughter, Indira (Gandhi), then in her teens and early twenties.
The letters were his gift to her - an indication of his love and caring and a way to educate her in his world view.
These were love letters from a father to his daughter to explain the world to her and her place in it, as he saw it.
Nevertheless, we cannot just disrupt and hope for something better without having some vision of the future we are working for, however vague that vision may be. We cannot just create a vacuum, or else that vacuum will fill itself up in a way that we may have to deplore. In the constructive schemes that we make, we have to pay attention to the human material we have to deal with, to the background of its thought and urges, and to the environment in which we have to function. To ignore all this
Sometimes a vague sense of uneasiness films them at a seeming contradiction between their domestic and colonial policy, between their professions and practice, but, considering themselves above all as practical men of common sense, they sternly repress all these stirrings of conscience.It may be said that a great part of the costs of transition to industrialism in western Europe were paid for by India, China, and other countries, whose economy was dominated by the European powers.
The only history book about India I recommend to anyone who asks for one.
For one, it's beautifully written, and, though Nehru comes from his own perspective about India, it's a perspective well-worth noting.
Nehru, who was India's first Prime Minister, wrote most of it while imprisoned by the British between 1942 and 1945, so the book's history is tied intimately to the subject matter.
If you know nothing about India or even if you think you know everything, this is a history book that deserves to be read.
Not one to mince words, my grandfather grimaced when I asked about Jawaharlal Nehru.
I found this surprising and confusing, but I admired my grandfather more than anyone else, hence made his opinion my own without any question.
I decided to read The Discovery of India to know his thoughts and ideas.
I found in this book the lucid thoughts of a well-read, learned man worthy of the title of Pandit.
Now that I have some background, I wish my grandfather was still around so I could argue with him about "Woh Saala idiot Nehru".
Undoubtedly one of the finest pieces of non-fiction I've ever read. If not for the author's vivid knowledge of India's heritage, culture, social life, history and a first-hand account of events constituting our freedom movement, this must be read for the literary richness of Nehru's writing style.
He displayed class even during criticizing someone, which often went like a very honest effort to understand their complex stand, followed by acknowledgement for all the things he admired about them.I don’t see a reason why anyone should keep them aloof this book because of issues with Nehru as a political figure or ideologies of Congress, for Discovery of India is essentially and solely about India and her history and geopolitics, transcending from ancient times to far near future in Common Era. And there is something youth of India can learn and mature about here, to take pride in one’s history,culture and religion without being a dick to other’s.excerpt from of rice and hen
Jawaharlal Nehru’s Discovery of India is his perspective of Indian history from primitive times.
I wonder what he would think about modern day India and world.
9 A society if it is to be stable yet progress, must have a certain more fixed foundation of principle as well as dynamic outlook (p 563)10 Freedom is dear to all, but most of all who have been deprived of it (523)11 If the government gets a hold of you they will flog you to death (or tax you to death), if the Buddhists get a hold of you they will starve you to death12 The same methods of investigations which we apply to the sciences and to exterior knowledge should be applied to religion.
What Nehru here was trying to do is to romanticise some part of the past as “the quintessential India”.
The search is for a timeless Indian culture.
The tone used in this book is to look at the Indian civilisation as something that has once been great but is now in degeneration.I wouldn’t recommend this as a good text on history of India.
This must rather be read as a work of literature that gives us interesting glimpses into the Indian past, as something that gives us a glimpse into the mind of a very learned man.
I cannot think of anyone more romantic than Nehru.
The way he writes about India, you'd think he was having his biggest love affair of all with her.
I loved this book.
For anyone who'd like to have a historical tour of India by an Indian man who loves India, this book is it.
He doesn't make apologies for aspects of India's history that are less than palatable, nor does he try to deny them.
Nehru's book gives us an insight into the ideologies that were prevalent in pre-independence India.
I highly recommend it for anyone who wants to read about India's economic and political history.
Nehru, Gandhi and Jinna were not original thinkers. They were highly qualified. They knew how to market themselves. They used best politicians like Patel and Munshi for their own advantage. The discovery of India is good compilation. What is original in it?
I loved reading this book when I was a teenager.
He was a freedom-fighter before India gained its independence from the British empire.
He eventually became the first Prime Minister of independent India.
This tome was written when he was in prison for fighting the British Raj before India was independent.
This book is truly a journey of discovery.It will be interesting to see what I think on re-reading this old jewel.
As an aside, when I was in the UK, I found an original printing of this book which was inscribed (in 1946 in the UK) by a woman to her lover, calling India their spiritual home.
When a man gifted with such intelligence and a writing style so eloquent and romantic that it enchants both the young and the old writes a book on a topic that is extensively over analyzed but barely understood, you have The Discovery of India.
Unburdened with facts and figures, it offers a perspective of the history, culture and philosophy of India that, even after half a century, is refreshing.
The opening pages are enough to assure the reader of that.
Reading Nehru's works is like looking at that old white-haired wizard.
I'm in no hurry to read the second half though.
She is a myth and an idea, a dream and a vision, and yet very real and present and pervasive.
There are terrifying glimpses of dark corridors which lead back to primeval night, but also the fullness and warmth of the day about her.
Shameful and repellent she is occasionally, perverse and obstinate, sometimes even a little hysteric, this lady with a past.
But she is very lovable, and none of her children can forget her wherever they go or whatever strange fate befalls them.What better way is there to spend time than to sit down and listen to your roots from Chacha himself.
A must read for every Indian.....
Much more enjoyable than I expected.
After re-reading it for the nth time, I have come to a conclusion that, this is by far the best book to understand the length and breadth of India from its days of "Aryadesha" to the days of "Colonized India".
This book captures such amazing ideologies and struggling days of India.Nehru's quotations throughout the book is a gem of a work.
In few places, one could understand the pain and struggles of India as a colonized country have gone through.
You need not to agree with Nehru's ideas or ideals or ideologies, but for sure, you would appreciate the book for its vast coverage and historical importance.
India’s past; her glory, her victory, her shock, her reminiscence, her philosophy, her geography, her fate, and her everything… This is a compelling read from the man who lead India in her darkest hour; the man who was chosen by destiny to enlighten the Indians, proves himself to be an enlighten soul when it comes to know her.
If you find the book bit exaggerated, forgive as it was written to make reader passionate about India.Pt. Nehru was one of the most prominent freedom fighter, whom Mahatma Gandhi referred as his soul.
I quite find it interesting that he is so much for internationalism and he gave a good insight on india ...
though take the history with a pinch of salt ...
the flow of events may be right but the history is tainted with a liberal level of optimisim...
Otherwise it is a knowledgable view of India and gives a very good insight into british raj, the political atmosphere of the 1940s and why India is as impoverished as it is now...Interesting to know he does not really care much about god or religion..
I guess his country was his religion...Good read...
Jawaharlal Nehru's analysis on India. The story of Discovery of India begins from prehistory to the last years of British colonial rule; some of the greatest heroes of India are mentioned. Analyzing texts from the Vedas to the Upanishads, and epics such as the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, and personalities like the Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi, Mr. Nehru brings to life an ancient culture and land that has been the base and headquarters of some of the world’s great traditions of philosophy, science and art, and almost all its major religions.
Hampir-hampir membiarkan buku ini kerana menyangka ia adalah auotobiografi Nehru tetapi rupa-rupanya ia adalah sejarah ketamadunan di Lembah Indus dengan kedatangan kaum Aryan, Hindu, Buddha dan tentunya Islam termasuk Sultan Mahmud Ghaznawi (yang dikenali awalnya melalui Maulana Rumi) serta sintesis dan asimilasi kebudayaan termasuk sastera. Buku ini mungkin dibaca berdasarkan bab terpilih.
To be complete, he also imagined the present day Pakistan to be part of this India, but that was probably not entirely in his hands.
A lot of the policies that the Gandhi family and INC developed post Independence are an execution of the ideas which Nehru had.
When you read Nehru arguing for his beliefs, you do develop more respect for INC and Gandhi family than you would otherwise have in 2018.
Shashi Tharoor's propaganda makes a lot more sense to me now.The distinguishing examples are these, that upper-class Indians existed during the British era too, and they exist now as well.
Ο Νεχρού ήταν ο πρώτος πρωθυπουργός της Ινδίας (1947-64), πατέρας της ίσως πιο γνωστής στην Ελλάδα, και επίσης μετέπειτα πρωθυπουργού, Ίντιρα Γκάντι, κι απ' ότι φαίνεται, λόγιος, αντιστασιακός (και εκ των πραγμάτων "φυλακόβιος"), διανοούμενος και εν προκειμένω πολυγραφότατος.Το "Ανακάλυψη της Ινδίας", το οποίο λίγο έως πολύ είναι ένα βιβλίο ιστορίας, γράφτηκε κατά την διάρκεια φυλάκισης του, χωρίς να έχει ο ίδιος πρόσβαση σε βιβλιοθήκη ή άλλες πηγές, καθαρά από μνήμης, πράγμα που στα δικά μου μάτια δείχνει μια βαθύτατη μόρφωση.Συνοπτικά, η εξιστόρηση ξεκινάει από την περίπου τρίτη χιλιετία π.Χ και σταματάει στο 1946, μέρες ουσιαστικά πριν την ανεξαρτησία της Ινδίας, αλλά και με τον Νεχρού ακόμα πίσω απ' τα κάγκελα.Επίσης, στην πράξη, είναι χωρισμένο σε δύο εξίσου μεγάλα μέρη, το πρώτο αφορά οτιδήποτε πριν την Αγγλική κατοχή και κυριαρχία και το δεύτερο αυτήν.Κάποια πράγματα τα οποία πρέπει να σημειώσω (τα οποία αποτελούν και τα αρνητικά του), όσο είμαι ακόμα νωρίς στην κριτική, είναι ότι όποιος αποφασίσει να διαβάσει το βιβλίο πρέπει να έχει κατά νου ότι ως βιβλίο ιστορίας το οποίο γράφτηκε περίπου πριν 70 χρόνια, είναι λογικό να μην είναι και το πιο ενημερωμένο και διάφορα αξιώματα είτε να αμφισβητούνται, ή να έχουν απορριφθεί.
Despite Nehru’s unbridled and envious knowledge of Indian and world history, this is not a scholarly work by a historian; and Nehru admits to as much in the book.
And through his writing you understand Nehru’s persona, his philosophy of life, his innate tolerance of various cultures and peoples, and his world view which was far ahead of its time - a view which we would do well to emulate in this increasingly globalized world.
‘Discovery ..’ helps you understand that what makes India unique is not just her culture, but the way her people assimilated influences from around the world into their way of life.
To get the larger image which it formed of India's past and identity was the most intricate of works.To acknowledge the shortcomings of a book written by a patriot and still looking beyond it to know the value it provided is important for this book.In long chapters and through some of the boring periods of Indian history, one can still love this book.Nehru writes with optimism and a pinch of rationalism.He did have at those moments and dark years a decent vision of the future and in that, in a diplomatic sense still, he has been right.
It is a very hyped book in India, especially because of a TV series made after the book. The series captured the imagination of DD watching Indians. But the book is a disappointment. A meandering self-conscious treatise by India's first prime minister.
great book about India. Nehru looks impressive in his writing. But doubts arises about his pre independence thoughts and work he done after becoming the first pm of india.. In this book we can get an idea about old India and British India through Nehru's view.
Best of the best! Nothing read anything like this before!
