https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59641.The_Poor_Mouth
There’s something so anti-twenty-first-century about his use of multiple pseudonyms and personas in our look-at-me-age of “FACEBOOK STATUS: Pooping right now.” Here we have Brian O’Nolan who wrote his novels as Flann O’Brien and his newspaper column as a character Myles na Gopaleen (think mid-century Stephen Colbert).
Most of his novels have meta-fictional qualities that pre-date post-modernism (or post-date pre-modernism, as the case may be.) Whether it’s acknowledging the author, reusing scenes or characters from previous novels, having characters who admit they’re fictional, or fictionalizing real people, O’Brien pushed the boundaries.
The funniest book you will read this or any other day.
Books like this make you glad to be a human being, alive and well and of unsound mind.
Read this book.
Laughter destroys empires and pierces little lethal holes in the armor of imposed ideologies, languages, cultures.Not long ago I met a man in the end of my house named Jams O’Donnell, and upon reading The Poor Mouth he laughed himself right out of his breeches and rolled about the rushes that were the makings of my wretched floor.
It’s the only comparably sustained, hilarious satire that comes to mind.
To a modern reader unversed in the source material and the political climate of the day, this is charming but loses much of its edge - as always with O'Brien it is surreal, inventive and often very funny, but one senses it was kept short out of necessity.
It almost certainly loses much in translation, and for me Ralph Steadman's illustrations are of tangential interest only and if anything distract rather than add to the narrative.
Plaid Goeth Before the Fall.A proper yarn, a fable of epically Gaelic proportion (the heroes travel kilometers!), and some running gags about pigs and a certain name—these are but a few of the substantial charms of The Poor Mouth.
Good thing it remained only in Gaelic for so many years, depriving a good portion of Irish readers (all three) the ability to see just how mercilessly they had been satirized by O’Brien.
The fantastical yarn abutting a plain vicious streak on the author’s part (along with a penchant for incredible names, à la The Headache, The Lively Boy, The Gluttonous Rabbit, The Temperate Munsterman) makes me recommend it to anyone who enjoys Theroux’s more Snickupian leanings.
Better than a bag o' potatoes for breakfast, so it is. Its like in literature will never be seen again!
Autoironia irish: caustica e tagliente, che irride fino all'osso il proprio autocompiacimento.
This was a satire about the Irish life told by narrator Bonaparte O'Coonassa (what a name!). There are LOTS of references to potatoes, poverty, drunkenness, perpetual rainfall and the Gaelic language issue. It's a very grim book but manages to be quite funny because of the narrator's writing style. A very good introduction to Flann O'Brien, in my opinion.
O’Brien satirizes the Gaelic roots of these residents by using the carnivalesque to exaggerate their living conditions.
The feis goes on for days in which some of the villagers lose their lives because of the mandatory Gaelic dancing.
The Old Grey Fellow, as Bonaparte would call him, puts himself in charge of the money made from the humiliation of the residents by the Dubliners and tourists at the feis.O’Brien’s novel touches deeply upon the serious and sensitive matters of the Gaelic speaking people of Ireland and how they are viewed by the rest of Ireland.
Yet it also satirizes the way of living from within the Gaelic community.
It is really very funny and each trial O'Coonassa encounters takes on a surreal experience because of its absurdity.He lightly mocks the Gaelic lovers who come from Dublin to learn the real language but soon leave because they can't abide the impoverished conditions of this tiny Irish country (it is called Corkadoragha).
He less lightly mocks the assault on the Irish language and customs when, as a boy, he is made to go to school and beaten because he has not conformed to a more Anglicized version of his culture.In the end he must go to prison for murdering someone (which he did not do, he just came across the body and took his gold seeing as the dead man would no longer need it).
It is a parody of autobiographies of life in the Gaeltact and on the islands off the west coast which were popular at the time and generally showed how miserable life had been, and then were used to inflict misery on generations of Irish school children (mention Peig Sayer's to anyone in Ireland over the age of about 30 and watch the look of fear and dread spread over them).
Equally the world it portrays is now so far removed from modern Ireland, that I though I know of it from history lessons, I cannot relate to it.
Although much of the American public may be unaware of the incredible talent that was Myles naGopaleen, Brian O'Nolan, Flann O'Brien (he wrote under many, many pseudonyms) I sincerely think that anyone who loves humour, surrealism, etc.
is missing out if you don't at least sample this man's writing.It's been said many times that O'Nolan (I believe that's his birth name)and his good friend, James Joyce, used to sit with each other for hours, without uttering a word.
Luckily, this friend took the time to translate the book for me and, although not as good as "Third Policeman" or, "At Swim Two Birds," I have a truly strong attachment to it.
Pretty much perfect weird, short satire of the wretchedly poor turn-of-the-20th-century rural Irish life. Every meal is potatoes, every day is a downpour, and no one knows anything about the outside world. Flann O'Brien's writing is tough to describe - it's funny without really being comic, surreal but about daily life. This one is less plotted than his longer novels, but it's a good intro to O'Brien, too, at just over 100 pages.
Desde el primer momento, Flann O’Brien te introduce en un juego caracterizado por la parodia, llegando al ridículo en muchos casos, de las costumbres y tradiciones más típicas del folclore irlandés.
En suma, no es el libro que más me ha gustado de Flann O’Brien, aunque resulta original e interesante.
In this comic work, Flann O’Brien satirizes the "Gaeltacht autobiography", a literary genre that was popular in Ireland in the first half of the twentieth century, and which emphasized misery and impoverishment.
In works such as these, the speaker will give voice, explicitly or implicitly, to doubts that anyone could have experienced worse conditions than those he or she is describing (Angela's Ashes comes to mind as a recent instance of this sort of narrative).In this fictional memoir, O’Brien undermines and subverts the conventions of this literary genre--reminding the reader that it is a genre and that has its own particular techniques and devices.
For instance, O'Brien exaggerates the folk-dialect the characters employ.
Un libro muy gaélico con gente muy gaélica.Me ha gustado bastante, me he reído con la ironía de O'Nolan, pero he tardado bastante en leérmelo (creo que tengo un problema con los libros de menos de 150 páginas).
Supongo que el libro gusta todavía más si te has leído alguno de los libros que parodia (aunque yo no me he leído "Tirant Lo Blanc" y eso no me ha impedido leer "El Quijote").
Y yo me pongo muy así cada vez que recuerdo aquella época de mi vida (y lo que la echo de menos):
This book outraged many Irish readers, with it's biting send-up of Gaelic Revival. For all it's humor, though, it's also a very dark book. O'B's humor can spill into smoldering rage at times.
i love this book
My little bald skull so astounded him that he almost departed from this life the moment I entered it and, indeed, it was a misfortune and harmful thing for him that he did not, because after that night he never had anything but misery and was destroyed and rent by the world and bereft of his health as long as he lived.Or his account of a poor man in the area who upgrades his habitation from a hole in the ground to an undersea cave he shares with the seals:There was a man in this townland at one time and he was named Sitric O'Sanassa.
Chím nach bhfuil aon idirdhealú anseo idir ráitis ar An Béal Bocht agus an t-aistriúchán The Poor Mouth. Táim ag léamh An Béal Bocht athuair......bhaineas triall é a léamh nuiar a (ath-)thosaigh mé Gaeilge a fhoghlaim ach b'éigean dom cuardach a chur ar bheagnach gach re fhocal ag an am!Is aoibheann liom greann agus sruth an scéil, an stór fhocail agus an t-aoir nimhneach ar seandhearcadh na teanga.
Greannmhar agus dea-scríofa. Soléite go leor. Gaeilge mhaith, álainn. Mholfainn do dhuine ar bith é.
It is a parody on the style of works of the Irish literary revival, his satire being aimed at those who want to romanticize the Gaelic people and culture.
In the novel, the author exaggerates the poverty, the ignorance, the fatalism, the drunkenness, and the general boorishness of the Gaelic-speaking population.
Since the work was written in Gaelic and thus could be read only by the very people he satirized, it must be supposed that they were able to look upon themselves with a degree of humor.
Bite it, by Gawd!] And fear not if you know (like I did) exactly fuckall about The Gaelic Novel, cuz you're about to get an earful from Flann the Man. Constant, pitiful refrains regarding the lot of the Gaels, a mass starvation scene played for yuks (it works), and pigs dressed up as the protagonist's siblings to trick a Brit census taker (also works).It's the particularly scathing episode of South Park of its time, and piss of people it did (according to the, like, shitty blurb on the back of the book, I guess I could research it but betcha I won't cuz wikipedia's mad hard to spell).
Very funny. A satirical take on a fictional Gaelic community somewhere in the West of Ireland. Really a series of short stories with recurrent themes - poverty, allowing the pigs to sleep indoors for the warmth, the incessant rain and an endless diet of potatoes. Those who are determined to preserve the quaint Gaelic language are mercilessly mocked, but the oppression and imprisonment by foreigners which is repeated through the generations, brings an edge to the mirth.
Marvellous. Accurate in both portrayal and mockery of Ireland and the Irish in that I could identify with and laugh at every word. To convey such a powerful message of the hardship suffered through a humorous and enjoyable read is quite a feat. The culture pushed to the point of farce was a great tool in illuminating the reality of what was a very real country-wide suffering. A fast read, The Poor Mouth is hard hitting and yet, conversely, is a warm and inviting read.
Flann O'Brien desecrates his own people in this hilarious and mockingly evil book which pokes black-natured fun at the Gaeltacht genre of Irish fiction. It is the tale of Bonaparte O'Coonassa who lives in the west Irish village of Corkadoragha where boots are unknown and feared, the terrible Sea-cat stalks the night, and Gaels drop dead in droves at every public function featured. The likes of this will never be there again! Highly, highly recommended.
****1/2 stars. Inspired lunacy, pitch-black satire, and prose worthy of Beckett. Plus the Sea-Cat. Not as good as At-Swim-Two-Birds or The Third Policeman, but it belongs in their company.
Originally written in Gaelic! HILARIOUS MISERY!!!
But like no author can, O'Brien deviates the comedy with such sinister dexterity, and shoves the reader into a stark reminder of the famine.
There was one section I had to read nearly a dozen times to fully to take in how he switched from light to dark so quickly - one moment uproarious comedy, and then half a sentence later, one of the grimmest, saddest images."After great merriment comes sorrow and good weather never remains forever." The pigs and the seals are some of the stars here, especially their stories co-existing with man.
You don't see novels like this written anymore.
The far fetched story, humorously told, most likely loses a lot in translation.
He lives in a house shared with pigs and cattle, eating lots of potatoes and fish, ten miles from the coast, where it's always raining and where he only speaks Gaelic, not understanding English.
To give you an idea of the style of story telling, there is a part where Bonaparte comes to acquire some gold pieces and because he is so used to living in extreme poverty, it takes him a month to figure out what to spend his money on.
The book is apparently a parody on Gaelic autobiographies about poverty and rural life during the Irish famines.
In some parts, it is an absurd exaggerated comedy of manners in the tradition of Wodehouse.
If Naipaul found his humour from the perceived "backwardness" of Caribbean islands, O' Brien finds his humour from the persistent rural poverty and what he sees as the melancholic need for the Irish to over stress their miseries, their lack of enterprise and their tendencies for escapist fantasies.
The comedy here culminates when an English man with unnatural interest in the Gaelic language mistakes a pig's blathering for purest form of Gaelic.
