https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1421990.Halfway_to_the_Grave
Combine action + sex + supernatural and you may just have a readership.
Is it working?)They must have been delighted when Frost walked in the door because her novel is pretty much the combination of sex, action and supernatural elements without ANYTHING else.
Most of the dialogue is about sex, arse kicking or discussing supernatural elements.
A big, greasy, delicious, ketchup covered cheeseburger.The sex orginates from Spike/Bones and Cat, our main protagonist who is a half vampire.
Life was sadly lacking in sex, action and supernatural.
Sexual content abounds!This book is the perfect fit to fill the Buffy-sized hole in my heart.Cat is a part vamp/part human, super-strength, vampire-slaying goddess with eyes that glow green when she gets riled up.
Hmmm, in fact I would gladly hand over a million dollar bill for such a picture!!He had me so sexually frustrated in the first half of the book that I was pulling out all my hair.I'm pretty much down to my LAST eyebrow now.And yes, I look exactly like that.Part of my problem was that I wanted it to keep going with that much intensity.
5 Hallo Kitten StarsFirst read 2/20/2014Reread 11/19/2015*Spoilers*"Is that a stake, Bones, or are you just happy with my new dress?"-Cat "Maybe he knew. Maybe on some deep, deep level, he could sense I was evil. I wish I hadn't been born this way. I wish I hadn't been born at all."-CatMy God I love this series. I loved this book the first time I read it and I love it more now. Night Huntress series is one of my all time favorites, and after years of reading it's still one of the best series I h
5 Hallo Kitten StarsFirst read 2/20/2014Reread 11/19/2015*Spoilers*"Is that a stake, Bones, or are you just happy with my new dress?"-Cat
God but I love me some Bones and Cat!
Some people had no sense of the proper music for a kidnapping.-Cat What this book is aboutCat hunts vampires.
Can Cat and Bones stop the bad vampires from killing any more young women?
They don't have evil in them trying to break out like you do."-Cat's mom Justina My Bones:
Towards the end there is a awesome fight where Cat and Bones are just handing everyone their asses.
★★★★★ 5 'I think I've found my new favorite PNR/UF SERIES!!' STARS. CAT:  "You're not a woman. You're the Grim Reaper with red hair!" BONES: "If you run from me, I will chase you, and I'll find you…"  Short summary: Catherine "Cat" Crawfield is a 22-year-old half human/half vampire. Ever since she was a little girl her mother, a human who was once date-raped by a vampire and thus became pregnant with Catherine, has told her that all vampires are evil, demonic creatures that can't be trusted and
Then one night she runs into he vampire called Bones who's a ruthless killer and bounty hunter.
And Bones is pretty much my new favorite alpha male book boyfriend; he's smoking hot, a ruthless killer but he his tragic past and the patiente and care with which he treats Cat (aka his "Kitten") show that he also has a soft spot.
But maybe she'll come around during the rest of the series...eventually.❥ The action, suspense, sexual tension, passion, humor, romance and tragedy....all these elements turned out to be the perfect combination to keep me hooked from the very first page until the very last one.
This is one of THE ABSOLUTE BEST PNR/UF series out there!! With one of the strongest long-lasting couples. Here's how I see Bones... are you drooling yet??
I am ecstatic …….a fabulicious new series!!! Sexy vampires….what else could I ask for???? Cat & Bones are now my favorite vampire couple!!!!   Cat is a sexy, kick-ass half-human/half-vampire determined to kill vampires…after all her mother was raped by an evil vampire, aka her father.   “I'm saying that I'm a moody, insecure, narrow-minded, jealous, borderline homicidal bitch, and I want you to promise me that you're okay with that, because it's who I am, and you're what I need.”    Bones is
Cat & Bones are now my favorite vampire couple!!!!
Cat is a sexy, kick-ass half-human/half-vampire determined to kill vampires…after all her mother was raped by an evil vampire, aka her father.
“I'm saying that I'm a moody, insecure, narrow-minded, jealous, borderline homicidal bitch, and I want you to promise me that you're okay with that, because it's who I am, and you're what I need.” 
Bones is a sexy ancient vampire, slayer of evil vampires with a fab English accent…yes, he’s British!!!!
I absolutely loved the humor and the interaction and dialogue between Cat & Bones is …let’s just say…TO DIE FOR!!!
"Cat Raven." "Whatever you say, Kitten Tweedy.” 
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2x4Rxox3.5 starsGAH. So here's the deal: NIGHT HUNTRESS by Jeaniene Frost is one of the first UF series I ever read, so it holds a special place in my heart.That being said, there are aspects that haven't aged well. At all. Things that were cornball the first time I read them in 2007 are borderline stoopid in 2015. Things like: “I thawt I thaw a putty tat.” Okay, that was always stoopid. How 'bout this: “Tell me why you registered for college?” I asked
So here's the deal: NIGHT HUNTRESS by Jeaniene Frost is one of the first UF series I ever read, so it holds a special place in my heart.That being said, there are aspects that haven't aged well.
BUT that's the awesome thing about Bones-in-my-head--I can stretch him to the 6'2" he's meant to be (preserving the aspect ratio, of course), and VOILÀ.
After that Cat makes it her mission to hunt and kill creatures like her father.
And Bones more than makes up for any early deficiencies in Cat's character.
2) Dirty talk.3) Steamy hooking-up - Bones is a very generous, attentive and giving lover, if you know what I mean.What I didn't like:1) This is not urban fantasy, this is paranormal romance.
The majority of the book is dedicated to flirting, snogging, hooking up, and love confessions.2) Many complain that Bones is Spike rip-off.
Halfway to the Grave is filled with cutesy gratuitous scenes of jealousy, sex on the stairs, and proclamations of love - the stuff that any fanfiction is full of.
I enjoyed almost-blushing-virgin Cat and dirty-mouth Bones conversations and flirting very much.
The greatest thing you can learn from love is to be loved in return. BonesCatI have no words about this book!I was aware that the series is addictive and really good but I didnt expect perfection and yes it was indeed perfect.The characters,the storyline and everything were so carefully developed and well written.Bones made me swoon so badly with his attitude/arrogance and his conversations with Cat either left me giggling or laughing out loud.“You're not a woman," he said finally. "You're the
BonesCatI have no words about this book!I was aware that the series is addictive and really good but I didnt expect perfection and yes it was indeed perfect.The characters,the storyline and everything were so carefully developed and well written.Bones made me swoon so badly with his attitude/arrogance and his conversations with Cat either left me giggling or laughing out loud.“You're not a woman," he said finally.
I'm.......Conflicted. I've been pondering for far too long regarding this book and how I feel about it. In the beginning, I dug it. I mean, I dug it! Right? I did. I mean, yeah, the writing is shallow and quick, the characters are just shoved in your face and then taken away at the author's whim, but the dialogue and action are engaging, and it keeps you reading. That's good, right? Turns out, not always. Like road trips. They're awesome until someone blindfolds you and directs you right off a
Let's forget for a moment that I would never in a million years take that deal (seriously, if my mom were a prejudiced bitch like hers, I'd dump her ass somewhere and never look back), the important thing is that Cat thinks it's the only way to keep her mother and Bones safe, so she agrees.
So at the end, Cat is still all hopped-up on Bones' blood, she knows these secrets, she's cavorting with bureau men she doesn't trust (both of whom are as prejudiced against vampires as her mother and want them all dead), and what does she do?
Solid 4 Stars! It's about time I started this series!! I won't waste time writing a review for a book/series that everyone but me seems to have read. I adored Cat and Bones. Their banter, chemistry, and humor was simply fabulous. I now understand why so many readers consider them their favorite paranormal couple. Even with the lame cliffhanger ending, which is no big deal considering the series is complete, Halfway to the Grave is a great start to what looks to be an awesome series.
No need for me to write a review on this one since I am probably the last person on GR to finally read it, but I am posting a few of my favorite quotes ..."Lucifer's bouncing balls, Kitten, not again!" <<< Still makes me laugh out loud!"Once you go dead, no ones better in bed" (Wouldn't that make a great song?)"One corpse, extra crispy!
"You'd better have a splendid explanation for her being on top of you." Reply: "I've never enjoyed a woman astride me less.AND FINALLYMy favorite quote actually comes from Timmie.
TBH I read this book for the funny title but it actually surprised me.It had a great blend of supernatural and urban fantasy world building – sexy, dark, romantic, witty, action filled plot, filled with fantastic characters.
But that didn't bother the Cat none, she only cared about one thing and one thing alone: killing vampires.
Our heroine Cat is a sexy, strong-ass woman who is half-vampire who is determined to kill....wait for it...
It just felt like this book's character development was limited to Cat, her love interest, and whatever bad guys she came across.
Re/read
I'm the freak who didn't like the book with a stellar average rating.
I had made some silly assumptions before reading this (don't ask me where they came from, I have no idea (view spoiler)[might be early Alzheimer's though (hide spoiler)]), which pretty much ruined everything for me.
I'm the alien from outer space who wants to scream every time Bones says "I love you Kitten."Silly assumption #2:I expected Bones to be an aggravating Alpha male.
Silly assumption #3:I thought Cat was supposed to be a totally awesome badass heroine.
After you do you probably won't believe these lovely girls and I actually read the same book.
EDIT: I'm adding a honorary star to the first two books in this series, just because Frost has been consistently awesome throughout.If you know me at all, you'll know about my teeny tiny obsession with a certain TV show, and one certain character in particular... even if you don't know me, anyone who's read this book has probably guessed it, right?So, let's see:Platinum blonde hair... check.Vampire... check.Killer cheekbones... check.English accent... check.Eloquently employed British slang ("sodding, blimey, shagging & bollocks")... check.Therefore, in other words...And that is just fine by me :p
Now, I’m kicking myself because this whole year I could have been experiencing BONES!
Move over, Edward, there’s a new vampire in town and he’s sexy, British and has a sense of humor.•••••••I laughed so hard while reading this book.
After a  wild meeting of Bones he convinces her to pair up with him in killing "bad" vampires.
(since I'm new to the series...I'm sure there is a cooler nickname for this couple than -catnes).
YES to seven books in this series!
I feel like I hit the jackpot.I did listen to this one and it was fun putting voices to these characters.
READ THIS or LISTEN TO IT.SERIES:
5+ stars – Vampire Romance/Urban FantasyI know a review isn’t really necessary for this book since there are already so many raves for it and lots of Cat and Bones fans, so I’ll just use my review as a means for gushing over how much I loved it!Bad-ass half human/half vampire Cat Crawfield, armed with her acerbic wit, bitchy attitude, flaming red hair, slut gear, thigh-high leather boots, and silver knives, stakes, and bullets, slays vampires with a gusto that makes Buffy look like a girl scout.
“You're not a woman," he said finally. "You're the Grim Reaper with red hair!”  HahahahahaCat is a feisty red-haired heroine who usually kills someone first and introduce herself and ask questions later, i.e. normally there is no one alive to ask him questions after she finishes. Half vampire and half human (an impossible, unheard-of breed), Cat has one and only purpose in her 22 years of existence: She has to kill as many vampires as possible. Nobody told her that not all vampires are bad. No
Nobody told her that eventually she will fall in love with a vampire and that they will chase together the bad guys, vampires and humans.Bones meets Cat before she kills herself with her stupidity and he teaches her everything she needs to know about vampires.
In book 1 Cat and Bones have their first adventure chasing a vampire who is using young girls as take-away snack and several other characters are introduced.
The end of the book is HFN and not HEA, since it is not the end that Cat and Bones want.
And I think it’s amazing that as a reader who really doesn’t care for typical paranormal creatures like vampires, the vampire hero in this book stole my heart – just one more reason why this book is so worth the read.One of the high points of this book was the two very dynamic main characters.
There was also a push/pull part to the romance, as expected since Cat struggles with self-identity most of the book and reconciling her vampire counterpart to her human one.
Re-reading the Series with my friends at Buddies Books and BaublesThis held up remarkably well. Sometimes when I go back to reread a series I don't enjoy it nearly as much but Cat, Bones and the world of the Night Huntress withstood the test of time.  “You're not a woman," he said finally. "You're the Grim Reaper with red hair!” A female Blade in her early years as a vampire hunter. Cat has a few daddy issues, one is she doesn’t know who he is since he raped her mother and then vanished. But twe
Sometimes when I go back to reread a series I don't enjoy it nearly as much but Cat, Bones and the world of the Night Huntress withstood the test of time.
Cat has a few daddy issues, one is she doesn’t know who he is since he raped her mother and then vanished.
I really liked how being with Bones and learning about Vampire culture really changed how Cat saw the world after her mother planted all of her own prejudices into her daughter.This was a fun and fast read and I will be looking forward to reading the rest in this series.
I knew that I was in for some steamy reading when the hero Bones was trying to train the heroine Cat not to blush when he 'talked dirty to her'.
I won't get into the plot since there are a lot of great reviews of this book, but I will say if you are a fan of JR Ward's BDB or Kresley Cole's IAD series and you're looking for something to fill the gaps until those author's next books come out, do yourself a favor and read this series!
Bones is still one of the best book boyfriends EVAH!
It was kind of an annoying plot device to end it the way it did (view spoiler)[ with Cat leaving Bones.
It's not a complicated book and has a pretty basic get-the-bad-guys plot, but if you want a good, satisfying vampire book, this is one of the best I've read.I think I've finally found a new favorite vampire series.
My last favorite, the Southern Vampire Mysteries/Sookie Stackhouse books, was basically destroyed for me by the end due to horrible decisions made by THAT author.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
5 stars This is a book I read before I started reviewing and blogging, and it's oh so special to me.
Cat and Bones are my favorite PNR couple, and when I recently got myself into a horrifyingly bad book slump, I turned to them for help.
I've read this book so many times I've lost count, but I always find something new to appreciate I may have never noticed the first time around.
I am so very tempted to continue rereading the rest of this series, and switching to PNR books only for a while.
But I suggest moving on to another review, because I'm going to be very blunt: I remain unimpressed by paranormal romance, and Frost's Halfway to the Grave seems a rather mediocre example of the genre.
Unfortunately, Frost has done nothing to change my opinion of the genre.Writing a Paranormal RomanceCharacters1) Alienated but speshul female lead who is insecure about her looks, inexperienced with dating, and trying to build identity away from her family.
Writing was about average for the genre.
WOW! I am loving this!!!
This is the story of two hipsters who rescued, yes re-purposed, two dogs and ironically named them "Cat" and "Bones".Freaking hipsters ruining everything!
But, the dumb-ass names are why I have never read this book series, even though it is totally in my wheelhouse.
It's like taking a trip down vampire memory lane.It's a feel-good thing.I'm not even going to bother giving you a synopsis of this book that almost everyone has already read.
WHY  “I'm saying that I'm a moody, insecure, narrow-minded, jealous, borderline homicidal bitch, and I want you to promise me that you're okay with that, because it's who I am, and you're what I need.”   HAS  "I thawt I thaw a putty tat" The mocking voice caused my pain to dissipate in a rush of terror. When I saw the vampire close by, I shuddered."I  did , I  did  thee a putty tat!"   ITTAKEN  "Fine. I promise I won't kill him."He said it too easily. My eyes narrowed."Promise me right here and
HAS  "I thawt I thaw a putty tat" The mocking voice caused my pain to dissipate in a rush of terror.
When I saw the vampire close by, I shuddered."I  did , I  did  thee a putty tat!" 
I promise I won't kill him."He said it too easily.
My eyes narrowed."Promise me right here and now that you will also never cripple, maim, dismember, blind, torture, bleed or other-wise inflict any injury on Danny Milton.
LONGTOSTART  "You're not a woman," he said finally.
Thank you so much to my Street Corner Booker friend Lora for challenging me to start the Night Huntress series.
She anticipated I would love the series, but I bet she never guessed I’d need a drool bib for Bones!
I loved Cat and Bones, they were pure awesome!
Bones is funny has HALE, he makes me BLUSH and his moments of sincerity brings down my defenses in a human heartbeat!
I love strong female characters that won’t go down without a fight and Cat delivers every time.
I either love it or hate it and I think with the Night Huntress series, I never really gave it a chance because I dropped it all those months ago.
He seemed so sure of himself the entire time, making Cat second-guess her beliefs that all vampires are bad.
Bones accepts that he’s a vampire and that fact alone causes Cat to change her perspective of the bloodsuckers.
I have a feeling that she’ll continue to be a kickass heroine that I’ll grow to love more and more.I’ll definitely be reading the rest of the series.
