https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173325.When_God_Whispers_Your_Name
Uplifting, down-to-earth, rational and refreshing. Max Lucado's work is heart-changing, but they are gradual, gentle revelations - one barely notices the seeds being planted. A simple, humerus, humble HUMAN approach that is a true gift to read. Lucado gently relays truths about our Father that had me in tears more than once. He truly is a good God - and by the end of it, i felt as if Max and I had had a conversation about Him - rejoicing in our Father and the endless joy of having God Whisper Our Name. Highly recommended.
Cuando Dios susurra tu nombre, te hace sentir atrapado en una serie de incertidumbres en que pregunt
And using this modern day version, Max really brings it home how God does talk to us and even if we have to wait a long time for God to come through to use us: "God ain't finished with you yet"!
I was sorry to only discover that it actually has a study guide once I was already through the whole book - but I think that one day I will go back through each story and use the study guide to go even deeper than I have now.
Wow. Tremendo libro! Primer libro que leo de Max Lucado y amé su estilo, sencillo, breve y conciso. Me encanta la forma de narrar. Me siento parte. Siento que me escribió a mi, siento que me habla mi, y siento que susurra Vianessa en cada página...Una joya!
I never thought I'd say this about anything Max Lucado wrote, but I found this book hard to read. There was no...pattern. It was like he took his musings and threw it into a book.
Es simplemente espectacular, resume el amor de Dios por nosostro, enfatiza e. la necesidad de ver más allá y de llegar hasta el fin de su mano. Un libro hecho con pasión y amor!
Cada historia, cada relato contenido en este libro, cada pasaje bíblico recopilado es un universo constante de mensajes de parte de Dios; algunas de las "revelaciones" ya nos son propias, otras quizás no están arraigadas, así que se refrescan y saben como la primera vez que las escuchaste, aunque quizás son más dulces que la primera vez... otras, no pocas, completamente nuevas capaces de conmoverte, sorprenderte, animarte y meditar en Dios.

This was my first Lucado book experience. I was intrigued by his Grace for the Moments devotional I am doing and picked up this book. Honestly I was sincerely disappointed! It was by no means revelatory, as what I look for in Christian non-fiction. I'm going to give Max the benefit of the doubt and hope not all his books are mashed up stories. I'd much rather read someones thoughts than a basic themed recollection of stories. The stories weren't bad and didn't make for hard or boring reading, it was just not what I expected nor hoped for.
This was the first Lucado book I ever read. It is by far my favorite of his.
I like Lucado's ability to talk about figures and stories and concepts in the Bible and discuss them in modern terms.
The janitor who used to run the head office - why that's not so different from Moses's story now, is it?
Died with just a few letters to his name.
But those letters, written to encourage the churches in their infancy in Ephesus, Thessalonica, Phillipi, will be read in every language for thousands of years to come.
What a pleasure to read this small gem and its essays and insights.Quotes to remember:We seldom see history in the making, and we seldom recognize heroes.
The book is easy to read and filled with enjoyable stories. However, when I got the book, I wasn’t aware the stories/chapters would be isolated stories or unrelated vignettes. And although I enjoy each story I think the title is a little misleading as I anticipated stories that provided instances or examples of “God Whispering Your Name.” What I found instead was a book about faithful advice.
"When God Whispers Your Name" By: Max Lucado - Book Review We have all been there at one point in time or another losing faith or possibly losing our way.
What if I told you there was a book by the widely known Max Lucado, that could easily inspire you to do better, & to understand that there is hope even in the darkest corner?
With each one that he told, it seemed to play a major role in my understanding of how GOD works miracles in lives & how easy it is to be a better person when your focused on becoming one with GOD not trying to please the rest of the world.
Very good, easy to read book that will build up your spirits. It's good-natured and positive, reaffirming the spirit of a Christian reader who needs help as they take the walk. You don't have to fear that you will get behind and have trouble picking this book up if you haven't read it in a while. It is written as self-contained chapters that can be picked up and read on a casual basis. Highly recommended for the Christian in need of uplifting, faith-affirming, and positive inspirational reading.
I haven't read anything by Max Lucado in years, and I had a hard time getting into this. He has so many good things to say, and I think his teaching is solid, but his writing is a little choppy for me. I imagine he's a good speaker, because he gets to the point quickly and uses lots of illustrations. Just not my style of literature.
Max always have a way of using humor with his story telling as they relate to the Word. I seem to retain his message better through this concept.
Each chapter is an individual story. Was ok-didn't light me up.
It's not that When God Whispers Your Name is a bad book, it just winds up being a fairly average one.The book is written with a focus on giving people hope.
There are a number of chapters where the stories he tells or retells wind up being quite memorable.
Lucado's book also maintains a rather upbeat, encouraging tone which would seem to be helpful for those in need of hope.
So overall I felt that When God Whispers Your Name was a fairly average book.
Someone gave me this book and I avoided it for a long time. The title and cover didn’t beckon me to read it. Once I started it I couldn’t put it down! I loved this book so much! I have recommended it to others and find myself continually referencing different chapters from the book. This would be a great book to read as a devotional. So so good!
Great book for refreshing your perspective This is an amazing book, very accessible and easy to relate. It’s conversational tone makes it feel as though you’re talking with a friend, a mentor. Thanks for the wonderful book Max.
It took me forever to read this book. I read it little by little until it was done. It was such an encouraging book showing how God loves us. It is packed full of little vignettes that touch the soul and remind us who we are to God.
I picked up an old favorite of mine and remembered again why it was such a favorite. Clear, touching, and easily digestible in short connected stories. My favorite book from this great writer and lover of people. Reading this brings me comfort, peace, and joy. I highly highly recommend it.
I love the spiritual teachings and how easy it is to relate to max LucadoS Books
There's no one so uplifting as Max.
Oh, what a wonderful book, you will find yourself smiling maybe sometimes crying but for sure you will find hope after you read this. God bless you all
Assorted topics presented in a random manner, but the illustrations are good.
Loved It
Very very inspiring. In what I am going through right now, it was very timely. God speaks really loud to those who opens their heart to Him.
A great devotional style book.
Of that place he sings.”From the heartwarming chapter God’s Christmas Cards, to the parable of The Sweet Sound of the Second Fiddle, and the dream of heaven reawakened in The Gift of Unhappiness, each chapter of this Max Lucado book had something beautiful to say about hope.
And now that I have put the book down, all I want to do is sing along with the whippoorwill.When God Whispers Your Name: Discover the Path to Hope in Knowing that God Cares for You By Max Lucado is a complementary book I received via BookSneeze.
