https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2203.John_Adams
After finishing this book, I believe the John Adams is the "founding father" I most admire.
First, John Adams, through the beautiful prose of McCullough, came across to me as the quintessential HONORABLE MAN.
He was a ROCK OF INTEGRITY and every action he took and decision he made (though not always correct in hindsight) was what he genuinely BELIEVED to be in the best interest of the country.
I point that out not to bash Jefferson (who I also admire) but to demonstrate that even the best of men had moments when they did not act in accordance with their conscience.
I haven't been reading biographies about past Presidents.
seeking out past Presidents to read about.
:)John Adams worked his ass off LONG HOURS A DAY - RISKING HIS HEALTH - making constant sacrifices and contributions with the most humble heart!!
I'm discovering it's possible that reading historical books about past Presidents might 'not' be drudgery or work any more than it's been to read about Jack or Libby taking turns narrating every other chapter.
If more books about past Presidents are 'this good'....
I FEEL LESS RESISTANCE TO READ ABOUT MORE PAST PRESIDENTS!!!
Suggestions of 'which' President I might read about next?
Since reading John Adams I have continually been reminded of my delusion of our country's history.
Today as I saw the conclusion of the John Adams' series on HBO I realized I was one of those John Adams saw as "deluded" by the artistic portrayal of our history in Trumbell's "Declaration of Independence." Adams was right.
It shall never be easy.
There must be always those within the country who are willing and able to do something to make a difference.
God raises up good and able men and women to make a difference among every people.An important book to read.
This is where McCullough excels as a writer of history, in weaving together the best quotes and stories and making the narrative flow as smoothly as a novel.I came away from this book a great admirer of John Adams, and grateful that he was in the right place and the right time to help build this new country.
Let us dare to read, think, speak, write." "Our obligations to our country never cease but with our lives.""So, it was done, the break was made, in words at least: on July 2, 1776, in Philadelphia, the American colonies declared independence.
When the British response was cutting off trade and blockade, the key to success and survival as a nation became recognition of American independence by counties like France, including a source of naval muscle to assert rights of free trade.
The high point in this book for the long succeeding decades of private life was his ten-year correspondence with Jefferson starting in 1812 through the encouragement of mutual friend Benjamin Rush to put aside their differences.
Well now I just want to read a biography on Abigail Adams. Watch me discuss this book in my June wrap up: https://youtu.be/NMt7tt6GeA0
I haven’t read a book this good in years! I cannot imagine anyone who wouldn’t enjoy this book. This is a book about a man, John Adams, but it is also much, much more. It is a book about American Independence, the American Revolution and  all  the Founding Fathers, the seven most important being George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, Alexander Hamilton, George Madison and Benjamin Franklin. The book follows all the events from the Declaration of Independence and the Revolutio
the Founding Fathers, the seven most important being George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, Alexander Hamilton, George Madison and Benjamin Franklin.
The book follows all the events from the Declaration of Independence and the Revolution, through the presidencies of George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, George Madison, James Monroe and finally John Adams’ son, John Quincy Adams, the sixth president!
I cannot help but compare it with Walter Isaacson’s Benjamin Franklin: An American Life, which I recently read and loved, but Isaacson’s book doesn’t come near to McCullough’s.
I really did enjoy Benjamin Franklin: An American Life, but I absolutely loved John Adams!
Working to create a constitution for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Adams drew on some of the key aspects found within the Declaration of Independence (something he thought might be tasked to him before he passed it along to Jefferson), and added key tenets that he felt were best for all those living there, Adams tried to lead by example and to use his passion for his home state (province in the early years) to better everyone.
As mentioned above, Adam sought also to lead in his roles as plenipotentiary minister to both The Netherlands (an interesting story told by McCullough about how Adams scored this post) and England, seeking to forge new alliances and political ground for the newly-born state.
"No man who ever held the office of president would congratulate a friend on obtaining it," wrote John Adams, and this superb biography by David McCullough makes it clear why Adams was undoubtedly sincere in this sentiment.
McCullough did not originally intend to write a biography of Adams, it transpires, but a more general book on American history.
I confess to having known almost nothing about Adams, and further confess to being dismally uninformed about the revolutionary period in general, especially considering that I majored in history as an undergrad (albeit with a focus almost exclusively in European history).
McCullough has us believe, for 466 pages, that Adams is generally disliked among the political set of his time and that there is no way he could be elected President: he is anti-slavery, deeply spiritual, a fine family man who loved first his wife, then his children, then farming, and he was always dedicated to doing the right thing (he even defended the British at one point and won the trial: it was the right thing, but not the popular thing to do).
He shuts down the slanderous publication and jails the publisher and a few writers in what feels like a violation of the 1st Amendment.
The impression one gets from this book is much like a hobbit -- a sincere, courageous fat little man, who was thrown into circumstances far beyond his expectations and rose to each occasion with incredible tenacity, determination, and eventual success, but who vastly preferred being at home on his farm, mending walls, resting with his wife, and playing with his children and grandchildren.Adams was one of the most influential figures in the American Revolution, taking roles in the Continental Congress, choosing Washington as General of the Revolutionary Army, writing the constitution of Massachusetts, largely forming and approving the text of the US Constitution and Declaration of Independence, acting as ambassador to England, France, and the Netherlands, being elected Vice President, and eventually becoming the second US President, and father of the sixth.
So good I don't know where to start -- review to come.
I began reading John Adams four years ago, if you can believe it.
Somewhere along the way I set it down and failed to pick it up again until a few weeks ago.
I was a fan of David McCullough before I read John Adams, but it has certainly deepened my respect for this incredibly gifted historian.
I think it’s rare for a biographer to leave you with the feeling that you don’t just know about the subject, but that you actually know the subject on a personal level.
And that is exactly what McCullough accomplished with this portrait of one of the most remarkable and heretofore overlooked founding fathers in our nation’s history.
Adams always seemed like a dumpy old president, but the man was incredibly physically and intellectually rigorous, and without his undaunted labors that were often overlooked, we might not have had the necessary support to win the war against the British. McMullough is a master. He takes musty old documents and makes them read like fast-paced fiction.
This is such a well written, interesting book. I keep wishing we had a John Adams to vote for this November. The caveat for me is that there is so much content to this book I need to continually take a break and do some light reading between and/or at the same time. Highly recommended for any American history buff.
I knew so little about Adams before reading this. I've heard some rank Jefferson as an historical figure they'd like to dine with: forget Jefferson! Adams is seemingly so under appreciated, but was a giant both in his role as a founder of the United States but also in character.
McCullough masterfully selected quotations of Adams, Abigail, John Quincy, Benjamin Rush, Jefferson, and other major players in Adams's life, and incorporated them without disrupting the prose.
Also, McCullough handles some of Adams's obtrusive character traits quite well - I literally giggled imagining Adams presiding over the first Senate debates, unable to refrain from butting in in spite of his own intentions to refrain from doing so.I cannot neglect to mention Abigail in discussing her husband's biography.
John and Abigail had a great romance of the kind I had sort of thought rare in general, but especially in that era.
David McCullough’s JOHN ADAMS paints a vivid portrait of Adams the patriot and Adams the man.
Despite making some mistakes and being decidedly irascible, Adams is depicted as the true patriot, who doggedly pursued his beliefs against all odds to do what was best for the country.
Perhaps biographies of Washington, Jefferson, and Alexander Hamilton (who is portrayed in the book as a brilliant but insane scumbag) would tell a different story.
I recommend this book highly to anyone interested in early American history or presidential biography.
Wheeeeeere's Johnny? Thanks to David McCullough's 2002 Pulitzer Prize winning biography Adams will no longer be overlooked as a lesser president of the United States.Although our currency fails to recognize him, that's never been much of a big deal to me, as my wallet generally fails to recognize any currency... they're so rarely acquainted:   John Adams - the president - was complex, ambitious, decisive. John Adams - the book - is complex, ambitious, definitive, and a remarkably readable master
John Adams - the book - is complex, ambitious, definitive, and a remarkably readable masterpiece.McCullough doesn't get bogged down in the tedium of mind-numbing details, and instead writes the book in more of a narrative form, starting with Adams family history, but focusing on his career in politics.Before I go on, I have to say I was apprehensive about reading this after seeing the family tree at the beginning.
They endured.There's a lot made of Adams' time as president, and before as a politician, his hand in The Declaration, his friendship with Jefferson.
This book took me months to read and challenged my thinking on a number of preconceptions I had about the Revolution and the Founders.
Instead of "correcting" me and forcing me into a new way of thinking, McCullough gently and deftly inspired me to soak in everything he had to say about Adams and to seek out biographies of other Founders to compare and contrast the men, their ideas and their accounts of history.
Our passion for America, her heroes and her challenges could only be kindled by such a move.
great book
And together they forged their way through many of life's heartbreaking trials.
These guys were like black and white, night and day, oil and water, yet their lives ran on separate, yet parallel tracks forging a trajectory that set the tempo for American political life.
I like McCullough.
Actually, I like good biographers.
And I would say McCullough served Adams well.
He writes for the everyday person, but in such a way as to elevate his reader.
What's interesting is, he wasn't even a history major.
After reading this biography, I feel like I actually know John Adams, the man.
I took this book home for the summer and read through it slowly because I could not bear it being over. McCullogh tells John Adams' and America's story as well as the best novelist while satisfying the history buff's desire for documents and "truth." Enjoy.
Finally finished this book tonight. Couldn't sleep until I finished it. It is so good that it's no wonder the author won a Pulitzer Prize for it! You have got to read this book!
An excellent biography of John Adams, the Founding Father and second president of the US. Highly recommended.
John Adams is a well researched and beautifully written biography about the life and times of John Adams and early American history. David McCullough uses letters and diary entries to paint a vivid picture and transport the reader back in time some 200 years. Don’t let the length of this book deprive you of the joy of reading it. If you love biographies and American history you will want to read this.
David McCullough is obviously engaged with his story; he likes Adams, respects the Founders, and knows his history.
The turbulence of these early times in general are conveyed with verve and detail; the importance of this juncture in American history comes through loud and clear.The second story is the personal one.
The amount of attention given to Mrs Adams forms in itself a worthwhile picture of female life in colonial America, as well a fitting tribute to the exceptional mind that Mrs Adams had.The major failing of the book is that the two stories aren't given mutual context.
I felt that McCullough saved his best efforts for the personal story that he enjoyed telling, while giving the political narrative only by grudging rote.
McCullough gives such a personal view into who John and Abigail, actually the whole Adams family, really were.
And they were truly wonderful, honest, patriots, full of integrity, and not afraid of hard work for their country.
John and his wife Abagail wrote over a thousand letters to each other and these and countless more to other family and friends, including Jefferson who became a friend while they were both working in France during the revolutionary war.
While John and Abigail had some very prophetic views of what slavery was going to eventually do to the nation.
We are lucky this family saved all their letters, and wrote so candidly!
I know this is a long book, but it is worth it.
I knew very little about John Adams, having forgotten many facts from my high school history class.
This book does a very good job of describing all of the events leading up to the American Revolution War and all of the major players in it.
It is written in a story telling way that is not another "boring history book." This book really captures the times John Adams lived, his life and love for his wife, and his friendship with Thomas Jefferson.
Well, John Adams was one boring motherfucker.
