https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3833.The_Black_Tower
Continuing my investigation of a new author for me, I got a couple more PD James novels at the library. I'm beginning to come to the conclusion that James is not worth reading when she tries to be deep and thought-provoking and to elucidate Serious Themes. Because she just comes across as ponderous, self-important, and well, boring.  The Black Tower  is an okay mystery, I guess, but I had a really hard time getting into the story and as it progressed I wasn't particularly entertained. The writin
I'm beginning to come to the conclusion that James is not worth reading when she tries to be deep and thought-provoking and to elucidate Serious Themes.
Her style can work, as in the first James I read, if she has at least one sympathetic character and the rest are interesting if not likable.
And what struck me as a minor flaw in the first novel I read, her obsessively detailed scene descriptions, are by now becoming irritatingly forced.
It all comes down to the fact that I prefer my mysteries to be entertaining, light, escapist reading, and James just isn't fitting the bill.
The best I've read by James yet.
Not sure if James or Inspector Dalgliesh are growing on me.
The fact that James is a subtle writer and Adam is a not very charming sleuth don't really explain anything...or do they?
In this story, we catch a few more glimpses into the mysterious character of our detective.
I find myself liking Adam in spite of himself, or is it because I feel sorry for him?
He solves his crimes but he doesn't always come out on top like Poirot or other serial detectives, which makes him and the stories more interesting.
P.D. James and I have a history.
The Black Tower is one of my unsuccessful outings with James.
Commander Adam Dalgliesh receives a letter from a priest who was a family friend.
Father Baddley requests that Dalgliesh visit him to provide professional advice.
Upon arrival, he finds that the priest has passed due to heart failure.
Father Baddley has been the religious adviser to a home for disabled people; his cottage is located on their property.
Dalgliesh finds himself drawn into the community and soon it appears something is amiss.
It's a 2.5 for me rounded up to a 3 because there is no question James can write.
Who would ever do any of the things that the characters do in this book?
Tonight is my turn, I'll read the phone book while you slouch in your wheelchair and masticate your food.
The worst is at the climax...(spoiler alert)At the exact moment that the inspector finally figures out what is going on - not by good sleuthing but by having everything suddenly occur to him, it turns out that the bad guy has simultaneously figured out that he figured it out and disconnects the phone lines.
It is a convalescence book about a character to whom I had little to no connection.
Like an in-joke to which I wasn't privy.I loved the sense of the solitude and reduced speed of Dorset, but it took too long to get to the action and I had very little attachment to the story.
I'm inclined to try another of her books as I feel I may have just picked up the wrong one for starters and I'd give it a star and a half.
The writing isn't bad, but when I feel like I'm slogging through a book I'm reading for pleasure, there is something amiss.Beh.
I picked up this book hoping to find another murder-mystery author I could enjoy as much as I do Christie.
Where people are killed off one after the other is what seem like accidents.
Inspector Dalgliesh slowly tries to pu pieces together and get to the bottom of the killings.The plot is tedious.
The narrative creaks and groans and whimpers and almost left me in a stupor.And having reached the end of the book I'm surprised I made it till the last page.I was thinking of trying another of her books - a more popular one - and then I read this article : where she thinks of Christie as "such a bad writer" : "http://www.guardian.co.uk/theguardian..."I don't think I'd enjoy P.D. James - her sensibilities about what makes a good murder-mystery are obviously starkly different from mine.
This one is pretty tedious up until the last 30 pages or so.
We have a bunch of convalescents, some seriously ill or dying, in wheelchairs (this makes pushing them off cliffs easier).
Commander Dalgliesh, himself convalescing from mono that the doctors at first thought was leukemia, serendipitously ends up among them, as they begin to die, apparently from suicide or natural causes.
It takes Dalgliesh 253 pages to figure out that there is something more sinister going on - and since he has decided to quit the police force, he keeps pretending he isn't going to get involved anyway.
Maybe ★★★ 1\2.Adam Dalgliesh learns a little something about false diagnoses.
The friend was working as a counselor/priest at a nursing home (?) for quadriplegics at a converted estate.
There were too many for natural causes to have killed them all.All this while Adam is considering leaving the Met. This was okay but as I was listening to this today, I kind of think I dozed off for a couple of chapters because when I woke up he was solving it.
I've been working my way through the Adam Dalgliesh stories and with James' recent passing, I will continue.
This is possibly one of James's most introspective and well-handled mysteries.
Recovering from a severe illness and newly aware of his mortality, Adam Dalgliesh makes the decision to leave the police force.
Before returning to tender his resignation, however, he decides to visit an old friend who has written him alluding to a need for advice.
When Dalgliesh arrives, however, he finds a morass of a mystery.This mystery shares a lot of characteristics with James's later Death in Holy Orders; both are excellent, but I'd recommend not reading them in quick succession, as I found the similarities somewhat distracting.
Rather disappointing. I picked this book up at a book sale for a song, mostly because the cover advertised the book as "Agatha Christie's Crown Princess" and being a Christie fan I thought I'd try it out. The story was long, boring, and the mystery easy to figure out. Very few of the characters had any appeal to me and quite honestly, I skipped parts just to get through to the end. Sorry to say, I don't think I'll try any more of PD James's books.
On with my reread of PD James’ Adam Dalgliesh series.
Before, we have followed an Agatha Christie type format and this was good, but not great.This novel gives us far more background and characterisation of Adam Dalgliesh and is bound up in his past.
Not so hard that I lost interest, but just challenging enough to want me to continue to journey.
All motives for crime fall into just a few categories.
So what is the motive here?
PD James is really coming into her own with this novel and I am really inspired to move on with my year long reread of this series.
A short take:James writes sensual prose, while Dalgliesh continues to pull me in.
James is very good at writing about people and the complicated muddle they make of their lives.
Murder is nasty; reading this book was pleasant.More thoughts:Would a murderer continue killing people in the middle of an active investigation, let alone an investigation in which a renowned officer is living within 200 meters of the victim?
So far, the last three Dalgliesh books have featured this trope, without which, hypothetically, Dalgliesh would be left short of needed evidence to resolve the facts of each crime.
But to keep killing in the vicinity of an officer is stupid.
Dalgliesh is recovering from a serious illness and gets a letter from an old family friend who's working at a home for the disabled?
Not sure exactly what to call the place - it's not a nursing home for the elderly, but it's definitely a care place.Anyhow, the writing was difficult for me.
It was like being ill along with Dalgliesh and not being able to quite grasp things or wondering if I had a fever again or what.I don't usually care for the list of characters at the beginning of a book.

I believe that this is one of the most popular books by P. D. James, but I found it fairly boring, too long, uninteresting (as a mystery novel), and almost formulaic in its plot and concept. So much so that it has for a while --hopefully-- removed in me the desire to keep reading her, as was my plan. I gave it two stars because some of the characters are kind-of-salvageable and the first third of the novel promised some good reading that did not materialize eventually, as it dragged on and on towards absolute tedium...
The who with the what now? Now I know that P.D. James' character Adam Dalgliesh is known for suddenly having an ah-ha moment that brings all of the clues together and solves the crime. Ordinarily, I'm fine with that. But in this book, there are so many characters, so many crimes that Adam isn't even working on solving (he is visiting an old friend who lives in the compound of a convalescent home) and yet, at the end, he totally pulls the solution out of thin air! Worst denouement ever!
I liked this one with the exception of a couple of problems. They'll seem major but since I tend to like characterization more than plot, for me they weren't. The first is how did Dagliesh come to his conclusion (and how did the murderer for that matter know he had?)? Did I miss something? The second is the long-winded confession that seems to happen a lot in these books.
Again, like her others, I love the characters & exposition of the majority of the book, but mystified by some of the twists with the final reveal. Always feel like she pulls in a new element from out of thin air, unconnected to & not even hinted at in the rest of the book.
AD is convalescing as he also tries to solve the mystery of why his priest friend wanted to see him. Alas, he's dead and so begins the dropping bodies. The name were confusing at first as she uses both names at different times. It was atmospheric but not gripping.
So-o-o-o many characters.
James is the mistress of character.
Every character has a story, every story has secrets, and somebody died accidentally, or did they?
I felt, as I have felt with previous James mysteries, that it took too long for the reader to glimpse a main plot behind all the petty rivalries, secrets, resentments, and schemes.
The end, when it comes, is brilliant, tying all the loose ends together, explaining the murders as well as a number of curious side plots.
One of the most satisfying solutions to a mystery I have read.
A good mystery. I had a little bit of trouble keeping all the characters straight.
But he is recovering from a debilitating illness and reaches 11 days late to aid his old friend.
He reaches the idyllic disabled person home set in the isolated sea coast of Dover, where rich as well as aid-receiving poor debilitated of all ages and sicknesses are enrolled, perhaps for life.
And I never guessed the perpetrator.I loved the descriptions of the sea, the black tower and the way of life in the institute far better than the mystery as such.Would recommend it only to well established fans of PD James.
Excellent climax, and I enjoyed the deeper look into Dalgliesh's character, but the plot was way, way too slow.
This is a crime fiction novel -- we all know from the get-go that there's going to be foul play behind most, probably all, the deaths that occur.
PD James has an excellent reputation, of course, and I'd gone in expecting that each instalment would be of consistently good quality, much like Tana French's Dublin Murder Squad series.
I've already started the sixth novel - Death of an Expert Witness - and it's not looking too promising so far.
Because this novel takes place in a nursing home of sorts, the characters are all wracked with physical deformities.
She asks us to consider the limits of the physical body, and the value that we place on wellness.
At what point, she allows Dalgleish to ask, does one's physical ailments become too much to bear.
As readers, turned off by these characters--some evil and hateful, even with their broken bodies--we must question how the body impacts our ability to hear and value another, how it subtly impacts our estimation of their worth.
Like all James, well worth the read: thought-provoking and challenging, regardless of whether or not we ultimately love it.
D. James/Adam Dalgliesh mystery, and it was so much more than I had expected.
The writing itself was excellent, the psychologizing top rate, the mystery itself complex and expertly handled.
The cast is as grotesque as one would imagine in such a setting, though also it is tactfully handled, I thought, and I was surprised at the complexity and sensitivity displayed in the writing of the multiple and varied gay characters (though I felt the women to be a bit one dimensional across the board).
In an age of television detection in which crimes are often investigated using the most sophisticated technological and psychological tools, and solved by painstaking analysis of the tiniest minutiae of evidence, it comes as something of a surprise that the most striking death in this novel is one that is never officially classified as a crime.
But whereas The Black Tower has most of the hallmarks of a conventional murder mystery - including a group of interconnected characters in a remote, enclosed, and slightly unusual location (probably best not to read this book too close to a later Dalgleish novel with a similar setting, The Lighthouse) - the mystery itself is not really that interesting, and its solution seems to leap, if not completely out of nowhere, then at least out of a rather different book.
Have to remember this was written in the mid 1970s hence its decidedly 'dated' feel.
The narrator's attitudes are a touch snobby, homophobic and racist - though the actual style is fluent and engaging.
What was most disappointing was the ending - the patients (or their wheelchairs to be more precies) are unwittingly acting as heroin mules.
While the revelation of the culprit in the final denoument wasn't surprising (he was always a bit shifty) the whole of the closing scence lacked credibility and actually relied on various 'deux et machina' devices.
The narrator also doesn't seem to approve of women who wear make up and dye their hair ...
I'd never read any P.D. James before.
I think The Black Tower was probably a good choice to begin with.
If this book isn't an example of mystery literature then I really don't know what is.
Even the ones we weren't supposed to like were well defined.I'll probably read more Adam Dagliesh books, but, at the moment, I don't have a definite choice in mind.
If this one is any example, I don't think I could go very far wrong with any choice from the series.
But, might just want to start at the beginning.
I usually like PD James but I just could not get into this one. Too many characters whose relationships were not made clear, and none of whom were memorable enough that I could remember who was who. I powered through, and honestly, even the last 20 pages were a bit torturous. I'll come right out and say it- I didn't really care what happened, and just sort of skimmed it just to be able to feel like I had finished the book.
No me ha gustado. No me he enterado en realidad. No distinguía los personajes, no entendía la situación ni el lugar, las descripciones me han parecido un poco pesadas y el libro en general me ha aburrido.
