https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13330372-young-man-with-a-horn
I picked this up because a) Dorothy Baker and b) there were some interesting stories attached to the film adaptation; namely, the Jean Spangler disappearance, and Lauren Bacall's oft talked about role as a mad lesbian femme fatale.What a marvelous book and so startlingly different from Cassandra at the Wedding.
Unfortunately, the movie stretches those fifty pages into a ninety minute combo of whitewashing and schmaltzy moralizing with a side of good music.
In fact, read the book and watch this clip and you can skip the movie altogether.
Non sono proprio tre stelle. Mi aspettavo più atmosfera jazzistica, mentre é incentrato solo sulla storia personale, di formazione più che altro, di Rick Martin.
Dorothy Baker's first novel follows the short life of Rick Martin, a virtuoso jazz musician at a time when jazz was not taken seriously.
We care about Rick, and the people in his life, particularly his best and oldest friend, Smoke Jordan, a black jazz musician who introduced Rick to jazz clubs.
Although the narratives suffers from 1930s racist language and attitudes, Young Man with a Horn is full of measured and nuanced portrayals of black characters, which allows the novel to feel modern and gives the jazz world depth and insight.
And whether jazz is the epitome of American culture or not—though I think there's a strong argument to say it is music, in all its C20th forms—it also gives Baker some serious advantages when writing this book.
And since this book is about young jazz musicians, she's aloud to let it rip.The other theme, of artist controlled by his art and unable to fit into the real world and therefore must suffer and die, is not new at all, think of Vincent van Gough and Caravaggio, etc.
But I think Baker does a good job with it here since it is an original American artist, partially because of his art.
I'd have appreciated it if Baker had cut loose to describe Rick Martin and the band's cutting loose.
I appreciate the power of understatement, but if you're writing about early 30's jazz, why not go all out?
Here's a couplea clips from the tragic, brilliant Bix Beiderbecke, the inspiration (though NOT the basis) for Baker's protagonist:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ue9i...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oW7YY...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2_Ai...
So if you're going to write about the guy who made this glorious music (none other than Satchmo himself said, re Bix, "those pretty notes just went right through me") you may as well swing in a mid-tempo kinda way, even if it's only on the page.
Raggiungere quella nota, simbolo della perfezione, una nota che non esiste, che non può essere suonata con la tromba. Rick Martin si avvicina così al burrone, prima dello schianto finale. Una vita brillante, con un talento, che lo conduce alla deriva.
Wait, this is the same Baker who wrote the likewise excellent but otherwise in tone, structure, character and story entirely dissimilar Cassandra at the Wedding?
WHAT ARE YOU DOING WITH YOUR LIFE?Right, well, basically every jazz cliché was, so I gather, created in this book, so much so that later generations (this came out in 38) of Jazz aficionados were prone to look back on it with some contempt.
I had no expectations when I picked this book up. All I knew was that the back cover said it was the "first jazz novel," and that was good enough for me.It's an odd little number, but manages to reflect the artistic striving that the jazz form embodies. It's incredibly well crafted with moments of raw humanity and feeling, but still manages to convey the idea that that Baker couldn't quite hit that high, previously unheard of note, just as her protagonist falls short of a note that everybody says doesn't exist on a horn.
Young Man with a Horn.
Cassandra at the wedding remains my favourite of the two – but Young Man with a Horn is a brilliantly assured novel, wonderfully atmospheric, it simply oozes jazz.
Although not in any way biographical, the novel is said to have been inspired by the life of legendary horn player Bix Beiderbecke.
And he goes to pieces, but not in any small way.
He does it so thoroughly that he kills himself doing it.”The young man in question is Rick Martin – who we are introduced to by an unnamed narrator.
The struggle he goes through to root himself as a man and realize himself as an artist without thinking in lofty terms of art, is deeply felt on every page.Although later authors found better ways to use language to express the feel of jazz, Baker has a ventriloquist's ability to portray the banter of musicians: the reader can hear each voice, practically see each character sitting, slouching, polishing their instrument.For such a short novel, I felt that a couple chapters went a bit long onto other tangents, yet the writing is consistently good.
Excellently written account of the life of Rick Martin, a young jazz trumpet player who is devoted to his music.
It's not easy to capture the essence of music with just the written word.
Dorothy Baker manages both in an easy and accessible style that drew me in from the first page.
For me, the book is a celebration of living life for something you believe in.
Rick's final words 'The GOOD thing, finally, is to lead a devoted life, even if it swings round and strikes you in the face'.
This is what his life (and the book) is about.
What is it like to have a talent that takes you higher and higher? I am not sure Dorothy Baker exactly knew, but she does an amazing job of giving you an idea of it that seems like the real thing. Short and on point.
Disappointing. I didn't quite buy into the tone, and a bit hollywoodish. It could be it was just me, though.
Full of zing, it practically comes with a gin fizz, a dingy stage and a band, it makes you feel and hear every single note of the music and the telling of it feels like you're reading scripture.
The prologue is told in the first person, and we are given to understand that the narrator is one of the few individuals who could claim to be an intimate of Rick Martin: He was mourned, I might add, by almost nobody except me and two negroes, Jeff Williams and Smoke Jordan.
Now, other than, possibly, Amy North, none of the characters introduced in the story would seem the type to quote Thomas Mann; there's absolutely no hint of any of them, at least among Martin's intimate circle, showing an interest in even popular literature.
(Baker observed that the inspiration for the writing of the book was "the music, but not the life, of the great musician Bix Beiderbecke".) We follow Martin from his earliest days, scrambling to spend time on any instrument he can find, and we accompany him on his ride to fame and acclaim in 1930's New York, playing and jamming all the way.
This is a novel -- almost a novella, it's so short -- that is easily read in an afternoon; but I spent almost two weeks on it, I realize in retrospect, because I was savoring it, wanting to prolong the pleasure of the text and the feeling of delight at having stumbled on something so wonderfully unexpected.Baker appears to have written only four novels, a smattering of short stories, a play (co-authored with her husband and based on her second novel) and little else.
I first read this as a kid, and committed paragraphs to heart that I can still recite.
I read it again approximately every 15 years or so.
Baker's style is amazing, when I read the sentences I feel like I'm eating them.
I call it the best 3/4 book ever, because the ending doesn't work: it's such a strong story about an artist, that Rick should be undone by his jazz or his failure to be true to jazz--because that's what the novel is about, his total pursuit of his art--but instead Baker had him undone by drink and a woman.
"He thought it out without words, the way music thinks - in depths and currents that have nothing to do with linguistics.
In these gracious terms he knew that there was good in the world, and tenderness, and sadness; and when it can be said of you that you know anything at all, you will know what these things are...
Rick Martin walked back to the house, troubled slightly, as if he'd missed something big by a very little."If nothing else, this story is about artists struggling with the music industry.
Also, the importance of not getting married after the first date.
The soul of the musician in the form of a novel.
38)This deep relationship between the two young men (one white, one black) is one of the most touching and affectionate features of the novel, it’s beautifully rendered by Baker.Smoke and Rick spend their nights sitting outside the Cotton Club listening to Jeff Williams and his Four Mutts.
(pg.53)Jeff Williams agrees to teach Rick a thing or two about the piano and Art Hazard does the same with the horn.
I’ve always been a big fan of the 1950 film “Young Man with a Horn,” the jazz melodrama starring Kirk Douglas, Lauren Bacall, and Doris Day (along with the behind-the-scenes, heavily-vibratoed trumpet of Harry James).
His compulsion for musical integrity eventually turns to sacrifice; Baker abandons jazz’s more commercial trappings for the life of an eccentric, rootless outsider.“Young Man with a Horn” is a relatively short novel that often feels deliberately compressed.
The character of Rick Baker emerges less from organic scene setting than from the lyrical, precise voice of the narrator herself; Baker’s style is profoundly rhetorical and omniscient, and is so densely expository that it often feels like the summary of a larger work.
It was a literary device, which changed as the book wore on - the way blacks and whites are seen from afar, and then up close, at an individual view.
This book manages to address subjects like what it meant to have interracial friendships and the role of race in jazz, without any overt commentary.
I would add that the afterword is a fascinating read in and of itself, discussing a variety of things such as jazz and the historical accuracy of the book, as well as the fascinating life of the author, her interests and subjects.
I have completed Young Man With a Horn by Dorothy Baker and loved the way it was written, the storyline; just everything about this book.
I absolutely loved it.The storyline is about a youngster named Rick Martin, who in just passing by pawn shops and seeing the instruments becomes enamoured by them and he stops daily and looks by the hour at these instruments and imagines playing them.
He becomes a wonderful musician and is quite recognized by like musicians.I know my description of this book does it nowhere the credit it deserves.
Young Man With a Horn is a wonderful book and I truly loved it.
This book suffers from being being a first - a first novel about jazz musicians, a first about amicable, equal relations between whites and blacks (although there are echoes of Finn and N.
Jim here), a first about a white protagonist learning about jazz from black mentors - and therefore fails to portray these things in a manner that we might now consider sophisticated.
But there are some great scenes here, and most importantly Baker's love of Dixieland jazz is contagious.
The book lets us here Bix Biederbecke and the like with new ears, without the overlay of phony, reactionary nostalgia, as a thrilling new art.
Have you ever had a book on your shelf that you purchased months ago and just finally picked it up?
Then read it and were so mad at yourself that you didn't read it earlier?
I've been incredibly into jazz the past couple of years and finally got to reading "Young Man With a Horn".
Blew me away!
Considered to be the first jazz novel, Dorothy Baker has constructed a story on Rick Martin that echoes the rest of the great writers from the 30's and 40's.
Man, what I wouldn't give to live in these times.
Loved this book until the very end. Dorothy Baker had phenomenal insight into the world of music, particularly jazz, and fed it to us in a way that was natural to understand, but her swift ending of the book, and Rick Martin, was abrupt and untimely. It was disturbing and highly disappointing, as death is. Prior to the ending, the book was a strong read and most eloquently written. Fabulous find for an avid fan of jazz, such as myself.
Se fossi nato in un altro mondo, in un altro momento, tutto sarebbe stato diverso. Il nome Martin sarebbe rimasto accanto a quelli di chi ci credeva come me, di chi ci teneva alla musica e la suonava così bene. Ma un menestrello che può mai fare? Suona la canzone e poi basta. Quello che conta è dedicarti alla cosa in cui credi, anche se ti fa sbandare lungo il cammino e ti prende a cazzotti in faccia
The race relations presented in the book were interesting and made me curious to know more about Baker's politics, but even with concessions for the racism of the period the language was still hard to get past. Other than that it was beautifully written, capturing the depth of moments in a loose, rhythmic style without falling to loftiness.
I enjoyed Rick's passion to push himself and his art forward. His friendship of Smoke and admiration for Jeff and Art illustrate the difficulties of working across races at a time of direct and open prejudices (in fact to a modern mind the racial epitaphs are jarring in there casual use).Only quibble would be that end is well telegraphed and a little rushed.
