https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24815.The_Indispensable_Calvin_and_Hobbes

It most definitely is Indispensable! The best cartoon of all time (Far Side a close second). Now that this in eBook I have it on my phone and can cheer myself up at any time.
When he’s in the room, it’s hard not to pay attention to Uncle Bob. And that’s good for him, because he likes the attention; he laughs and jokes constantly, and loves a good audience.
In short, he’s a natural born salesman.
So Uncle Bob naturally excelled when he got his first job out of college selling tractors.
He is not a man of literature.So I was naturally intrigued to find him, one day, curled up over a book, snickering loudly.
I loved it.
I showed it to my brother, and he loved it too.
Maybe Uncle Bob’s a man of literature after all.
5.0 stars. Second only to Gary Larson's "The Far Side" as my favorite cartoon series of all time. Always clever, always funny and always leaves you in a better mood.
My favorite comic strip ever, now in book form! Hilarious 6 year old boy(Calvin) and his adventures with his stuffed toy tiger(Hobbs).
There is nothing to not love about Calvin and Hobbes.Especially the snowmen.
These books were a seminal part of my childhood; I've reread them so many times throughout childhood, the teen years, and adulthood that I'm not exaggerating when I say that if you start quoting one of the strips, I can almost guarantee that I'll be able to give you the punchline from memory."The Indispensable Calvin and Hobbes" is a treasury made up of what may be my two favorite Calvin and Hobbes books: "Revenge of the Baby-Sat" and "Scientific Progress Goes 'Boink'." I think the bulk of all my all-time favorite C&H storylines are in here, including Calvin forgetting his bug report until the last minute (literally, the last minute), the Garage-as-Clubhouse incident (probably when I laughed the hardest at the strip), their first time-traveling adventure ("You mean we went into the past because we were FACING THE WRONG WAY??"), the army of Calvin clones, Calvin signing up to play baseball at recess (all my inner childhood angst about organized sports seemed to have been poured upon the page for this storyline) ...
The best thing about the Calvin and Hobbes books is that I grew up just looking at the pictures because I didn't read English, but found them so funny nevertheless. Then, when I learned English and was finally able to read them, they were even funnier because I could finally understand what the characters were saying. And as I grow a bit older and wiser, I still laugh whenever I crack one open, but for entirely different reasons. I love how there is something for every age in these books.
Always a pleasure, always relatable.
I just happened to pick this book up while visiting a friend, and, the next thing I knew, it was hours later.
I finally see the humor in Calvin's declaration that this is the coolest thing to happen to him.Most interesting is that I never understood how a bright kid like Calvin could do so poorly in school.
It makes sense now, and I even understand why I didn't see it, before.
Calvin's school isn't about nurturing creativity or teaching children to use their gifts.
We all need a little more imagination in our lives.
wisdom from the mouths of precocious babes (yeah, I know, really from some dude), hilarious, *love* all C&H collections
Love this! Read it. Over and over again.
the theme is to be yourself
by Bill Watterson, published in 1992.Another fantastic collection of Watterson’s Calvin and Hobbes cartoons.
There is just so much fun and mayhem to enjoy in this collection it’s hard to quantify how great it is.This collection, “The Indispensable Calvin and Hobbes”, is the collected cartoons of “The Revenge of the Baby-Sat” and “Scientific Progress goes “Boink”.
Very funny stuff which come to a climax in future installments of the cartoons.Not to be missed, this treasury is a goldmine of humour and what it is to be, and live with, a mischievous six year old boy and his tiger.For those wishing to collect all the strips of Calvin and Hobbes I provide the complete paperback listing below.
Apparently, I missed Gallery 5...)But when it comes to my life, no comic/cartoon/Sunday Funny has been read by me more than Calvin and Hobbes.
And often you're the jerk, but you can't recognize it in yourself.At this moment in my life, though, when I read it I came away with something else.
...an interesting presidential cycle.I noticed that Calvin is Donald Trump.Now, who knows?
(True, on Facebook I was a little more direct in my feelings toward Mr. Trump...) But, lots of people took notice and have been photoshopping Trump's face over Calvin's face.
Full of awesomeness. You'll never get fed up reading this book, even though you've read it ten times!
I loved Calvin and Hobbes and I'm almost certain I own this, but it is in storage and I haven't seen it in over a decade. I was surprised at how some comics stuck with me almost word for word, while some seemed entirely new. It's also really neat how spending so much time with my niece has added a new dimension to these comic strips. I really love how nuanced Watterson's work is! Perfect antidote to a miserable head cold.
Fun read, How can you not love Calvin... brings me back to reading Charlie Brown books under the covers with a flashlight. Sometimes my reading just has to be fun!!
Still enjoy Calvin and Hobbes no matter how many times I re-read it.
I'm pretty sure I have both The Revenge of The Baby-Sat and Scientific Progress Goes "Boink", but this book also has cartoons that don't appear in either.Comic strips have been through several Golden Ages.
Even something 'perfect' like this strip (in the sense of completed, at least) is bound to have its flaws.This book starts with a section of poems.
If you feel compelled to slog your way through the poetry in the interests of thoroughness, remember to save a little time to read some of the strips that follow as a sort of dessert--reward for eating all your veggies.
The plot would I guess then be the adventures of a boy named Calvin and his stuffed Tiger Hobbes, but Calvin thinks Hobbes is real and they have real life conversations.
The comics are political or have relations to issues within the world, but because they are discussed between a kid and his imaginary stuffed tiger, they're more childish and lighthearted.
Personally, I think everyone should read some Calvin and Hobbes in their life, it's just an essential part of the comic/ graphic novel world, right up along side Far Side, Garfield, and the Peanuts.
There are some things about life that even adults don't understand though, things that as a child you assumed you would understand some day but in reality had a better handle on when you were a child, without prejudice and worldly knowledge getting in the way.But in the end, Calvin and Hobbes bring back the simplicity of childhood, taking you back into a world where ultimate happiness can be achieved by digging in the dirt or taking pictures of plastic dinosaurs.
Calvin and Hobbes is more than just a comic book; it's a reminder of how magical life is in a child's world.
I have had this book for about 4 years now and I had yet to read it.
Calvin is very intelligent and so is his stuffed tiger Hobbes.
The way he talks and the things he does are not what a normal grade school kid would do.
Like any other kid he hates school and dreams big.
I enjoyed reading this book very much.
This book goes through the seasons at least twice, and Calvin always finds something cleaver to say or do according to the season.
Also like any other kid, he messes with his parents as much as possible and tries to get away with anything and everything.
Read it as a kid, and loved it.
Reread it piecemeal several times over the years and loved it every time.
I try not to read it with my kids though because it gives them dangerous ideas.I love Watterson's artistic drive.
It really shows in his work.Waterson thinks big words are funny, and he puts some whoppers in the mouth of 6-year old Calvin.
It was funny then and it is funny now.Like others I admire, Watterson is so much more than just a comedian.
There is realy pain, thoughtfulness and love in the stories.
My favourite comic characters of all time - Calvin, Hobbes, Susie Derkins, Calvin's parents, Roz the babysitter, Mrs Wormwood, Moe and other characters that appear in the comics. :) I used to read them from cover to cover in a day. One thing, it's easy to read because they're just comics, so not many words. Second thing is that the jokes are simply hilarious and I wanted more. I love Calvin and Hobbes!
Calvin & Hobbes classic childhood read, you laugh then at the innocent jokes but when you get older and look back on it, you reminiscene and laugh at childhood be it your own or just overall.The relationship between Calvin and Hobbes is wonderful, the best bud until the end thing that we all need and deserve, reading the comics again it makes me smile..it's adorable.I don't know what my childhood would have been without it.
Oh, I absolutely adore Calvin and Hobbes! I found a whole shelf of these books in my basement, they belong to my father. i started reading this one and couldn't put it down. I love them :) They really show the magic that there is to childhood. Are kids the only ones who really are in touch with reality? Is hobbes real or a stuffed animal? Who knows, that's the magic to it all :D
I don’t know if a family, much less a childhood, without Calvin and Hobbes would be complete. Frankly, once it stopped being published, my newspaper readership dropped off significantly. Everyone needs to smile, needs a little imagination in their life, and needs a little bit of Calvin and Hobbes. And if anyone is up for a game of Calvinball, just give me a call.
May not be great literature, but Bill Watterson sees something which most of us don't. My life has been diminished by not having the joy of opening the daily paper to some new insight to ourselves through his eyes.
Buku greatest hits-nya Calvin & Hobbes.Lovely, walau ada beberapa joke yang terasa berulang. Karakter orang tuanya Calvin lebih diperdalam kali ini.Duh, sayang gak bisa dipinjam bukunya. Terpaksa baca di tempat, deh :')
