https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108385.Dark_Gold
3.5 Savage Stars First read June 2012 re-read January 12,2016 Spoilers "You had a bad dream, something about vampires, but you do not really remember it. It is all very hazy. You talked to me about it, and if it ever returns to haunt you, you will come to me, and we will discuss it. You always feel free to talk with me about things that sometimes do not make sense. You want me to be with your sister always. We talk about it together and plot together to make her want to stay with me as my wife,
Alex acted like such a child I just wanted to shake her!"Aidan says you only think you're in charge but that we have to let you think that because women like to think they're in control, but men have to protect them." Her blue eyes met golden ones over the blond curls.
When Alex finally committed to Aidan as a lifemate, they had a great relationship.
I'm used to doing things my way, and Aidan is set in his medieval ways." "What's medieval ?" Joshua wanted to know.
"That's not all I could call you, but for now, we'll leave it at medieval."-Alex, Joshua, and Aidan
3.5, muy cerca de un 4/ ¿Qué puedo decir? Aunque, quizá, la puntuación que le doy no sea muy alta, me encanta cómo escribe esta mujer y sus vampiros.
I started reading this book, and soon I was fully immersed in this world of dark sensuality and supernatural beauty, where the creatures of the night are a race of ancient immortals who live on blood.
I was like, "It's about time!"Alexandria didn't sign up to be a lifemate, to live in the darkness, to have to drink blood to survive, but Aidan had little choice but to change her, since she had been fed on twice already by the vampire he destroyed, and forced to drink its blood.
As the books progress, Feehan has learn to use different pet names that mean the same thing.
In this one it is 'piccola' which is basically Italian for 'little one', a term of endearment that she used in the first book.
While the series is supposed to occur in modern times (she uses a great many elements that denote this), as much as a quarter of a century passes as if it is only a year or two.
I have begun reading the fourth book, Dark Magic, and to reinforce my pet peeve about pet names, Feehan turns to French with 'ma petite'.
The heroine drove me crazy till 70%I don't really consider this book safe..
I don't discriminate between hero or heroine when I'm getting mad over ow or om scenes.
I do get way more mad when it's the hero but I can guarantee that there is no way this book would have been marked safe if the hero would have been thinking that another woman was attractive and how he wanted to want and make love with any other woman..
Still really hoping that my Feehan fans will tell me if there are more books that are not heroine safe.
4.5 stars, mostly for the hero. The heroine was a wee annoying in this one. Her denial of what was happening and her continued effort to go out with another man brings this rating down from 5 stars.
I wanted to clarify my previous poor review.I had too many problems with this book.
First, the author immediately throws me out of the story by jumping between Point of Views in the same scene.
Instead of, you know, getting to know one another or even going out on a date.) and the rest of the book is waiting for the woman to accept her fate at this guy's lifemate.
(And, the author had to keep reminding us this was San Fran, since it never FELT like San Fran.)I kept reading in the hopes of a decent sex scene at least.
This book si wonderfully amazing and I really enjoyed listening to Juanita Clark read it to me.Aidan, a vampire hunter that has existed alone for many centuries.
Living in hell holes, scrounging for money and food to keep them moving forward, she loves Joshua dearly and will do anything to keep him safe and give him what she hopes will be a bright future.Kidnapped by a vampire who claims her as his mate, she and Joshua suffer through caves flooded by tides, violence and terror from the vampire, and attempted double suicide to avoid the terrible existence of what she knew would come.Rescued by Aidan, whom believes her a deranged vampiress, Aidan and Alexandria begin the relationship progression that all Carpathians must endure.
Although the sexual content finally comes forth, there is very little.I do not advise immature adults to read this book.
Third strike, Carpathians.
I'm sorry but you are out.Pro: none that I can find.Cons: - The lead men in these books are not alpha, they are slavers.
- This isn't a mate bond, it's slavery.
There is no free will, no choice whatsoever.
- The women are never strong as we are told.
On the contrary, to me they are weak and made weaker by the story.
My definition of them would be "doormats".
(well, they have no choice.
They are forced in to an eternal marriage to save a man.
(sigh)- The man always knows best.
He is always right.
Well I really like Ms. Feehan's stories (when she stops reiterating and going over old ground again and again), but it is a shame that the characters are all type-cast.
So far I think now that they are being a bit mundane (yet I strangely can't stop reading them as I want to learn all about ALL the characters now that I have encountered them in Dark Celebration, which is a bit of a disappointment as the series began so well.
Jeez, I think we are all grown ups reading these stories.
"Dark Gold" is the story of Alexandria and Aidan.We again find the mating of a human and a Carpathian, the difference this time being that the human is being chased by a bloodthirsty vampire Paul and is rescued, and hence turned by Aidan.Adding to the story is her 7 year old brother Joshua, his housekeeps Maria and Stefan; and one of her ardent admirers Thomas Ivan.It goes through the typical back and forth of the conflict the heroine goes post being turned- being able to communicate, the blood drinking, the craving and the hero's devotion and OTT protectiveness.Now my issue with this book is..
Aidan was good and Joshua (Alexandria little brother) was cool, but Alexandria was definitely a TSTL heroine and stayed that was through most of the story.Alexandria is a very talented artist that wants to get a job with a famous maker of vampire video games.
Alexandria has never dated because she's never found a man that attracted her.Carpathians are born vampires with other abilities like shape shifting (to any form, even mist), magic spells and psychic powers.
Alexandria is at a dinner interview for the job she wants when she's drawn out by a vampire who kills some people and then takes Alexandria and Joshua captive.
3.5 stars
3 stars for the audiobook. Not a big fan of this narrator.4 stars for the story.
"Dark Gold" is the 3rd book in Christine Feehan's Carpathian series.
Like all Carpathian men, he lost his emotions and his ability to see in color after he turned 200.
Aidan finds his lifemate, Alexandria, in the clutches of a true vampire.
After his brutal attack, Alex does not see the difference between Aidan and a vampire.
Even though Aidan killed the vampire who first kidnapped Alex, another is searching for her, which puts her life in danger.
Despite my issues with bossy Aidan (and of course my rant on "velvet"), I enjoyed this book.
I began this series reading the latest (Dark Slayer) which is far into the series and enjoyed it fairly well.
This third installment in the series is my fourth dark book and in many ways I found it insufferable.First the two things I liked about the book.
This so far seems to be the default for the female protagonists in the early books (not so in Dark Slayer), but in Dark Gold the Alex character was too much to bear.
I'll stick with these books for a few more installments, clinging to Dark Slayer in the hopes that at some point the female characters will become a bit more interesting.
Aiden and AlexandriaBarely 3.5 stars.. my least favorite of the 3
La repetición constante del patrón de la protagonista me tienen al borde, si en el cuarto no cambia dudo mucho que siga la serie.
Should I go back and re-read the first two?Our millenia-old Carpathian in this book is Aidan Savage...
Aidan was very close to that edge, the point where the Carpathian falls over into the dark side and becomes a murderous gluttonous vampire.
Aidan saves Alexandria and Joshua from a rogue vampire who desired to make her into evil life mate...
I was cheering for Aidan to claim his female and banish the dark beast that wanted to take over, so I was glad he got his HEA in the end.
But when he wasn't channeling Dracula, I did like his interpretation of Aidan and Joshua.I'll be back with my next Carpathian read in a couple weeks.
I just did not like Aidan.
I was so tired of the back and forth while I totally understood her reluctance.
Her pushing him away for 70% of the book was understandable but still got old.
When reading these epic series I never expect to love them all so I am not discouraged at all.
It made me appreciate the previous two books.
I liked seeing the progression of the overall storyline.
Anxious for book 4 to read about Grigori.
(view spoiler)[ she does go on a date because she is in total denial.
She does not kiss anyone.<\spoiler> (hide spoiler)]
This is probably one of the few Carpathian books where you get a feel for their day to day lives.
As Alex recovers from her attack and adjusts to her new life you can feel both Aidan's reluctance to push her further than he has to and his need for her to hurry up and get with the plan.For all the vampire attacks and creepy bosses this is a very tender story of a really nice couple.
(that almost sounds insulting but I don't mean it that way).
If he wasn't so Carpathian, I'd almost say Aiden's a beta hero.Plus there's Gregori...

Re-read 2nd time by audiobookThese women are too stupid to live, literally. Yes, they're rescued from the bad guys. Yes, things were done to make sure she lived. But does she appreciate it, no, she fights and hurts everyone and would rather die than live with a man who has been kind to her and has been wonderful to her brother. I feel so sorry for these Carpathian men!
I'm glad I went back because I ended up really enjoying his story.Aidan was one of the more reasonable of the controlling Carpathian males.
He had lived with generations of the same human family for centuries and that kept him a bit more grounded.He found Alexandria when she and her little brother - whom she was raising - were captured by a vampire.
Alexandria had psychic powers, which made her attractive to both vampires and Carpathians because psychic human women could be turned.
And I feel awful feeling this way because I absolutely love the series, but this installment is definitely A NO for me.1) A COMPLETELY SPOILED AND NEGATIVE HEROINE.
Poor guy saved her life and the ungrateful b*tch just wouldn't stop whining and blaming him for things out of his hands.
I swear I couldn't believe 80% of the book had gone by while she kept torturing the poor guy.
I just felt bad for the poor guy to be paired with somebody like her.I still adore the series and I know next book will be amazing.
Witnessing a vampires destruction and then being taken by him along with her younger brother Joshua, Alex had no idea what this monster wanted with her.
They had both done awful things to her that made her feel pain, but Aidan had taken her and her brother to his house and seemed to be caring for her.
All Aidan had know for centuries was his loneliness, his dark existence, but as he went to finish off the monsters he realized that the women gave him color.
Alex thought she had a to be caught in the nightmare still, the things this beautiful man said to her, it could not be true.
I absolutely love books 1 and 2 in this series.
The male domination theme was always there in the previous books, but it was tempered with strong female characters and very heavy male angst.
Without those elements, this book just seems like overbearing male and that's all.
This really disappointed me because I really liked Aidan in the previous books.
I know he has angst that he could show us, but it just wasn't shown.
That too was missing from this book.
I really hope this book wasn't indicative of the ones to come.
I adored books one and two, surely there are more great ones coming.
This is the 3rd book in the series and it’s a great book.This is the story of Aidan, twin brother of Julian who are ancient Carpathians living far away from their beloved home – the Carpathian Mountains who meets his life mate, Alexandria when he saves her and her brother from a vampire that had capture them.I love Aidan….the gorgeous, golden hero who shape shifts into a golden eagle…wow….and he is the only Carpathian that has a human family who live with him.
Love meeting new characters and reading their story.This is a favorite one of mine.
Creamy heat. Moist heat. Slick heat.NO! NO! NO! NOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!"Heat" as a synonym for "vag" just joined "scrotum" on my list of no-no words.Gross.And as if that wasn't bad enough, I still can't stand Feehan's namby-pamby heroines. I lost count of how many times I wished I could lay a violent hand on Alexandria.
