https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11563110-hallowed
By the end of the book, he has shown himself to be a rock-steady, understanding, and fun presence in Clara's life (view spoiler)[not to mention an incredibly hot one :D  (hide spoiler)], and it's pretty near impossible not to fall in love with him in a pretty deep and meaningful way as well.This book made me so very happy in so many ways, and there are unbelievably beautiful angel moments in it, with descriptions of gorgeous feathered wings, flying, and luminous "glory" that are just marvelous.
I feel like this book should come with at least a warning.
/end mini rant.I think it goes without say that I loved this book.
However, I can tell you some of the things I LOVED about Hallowed:The character developmentFans will be happy to know that we do indeed find out more about Christian, Clara's mom, Angela, Jeffery's purpose and last, but certainly not least, Tucker Avery.
The love triangleI'm sure you saw that coming, as did I, but here's the thing: I liked it.
Clara just didn't get a break in this book and I felt for her so much.
Okay, so y'all know how much I loved Tucker, courtesy of my initial review. (And trust me, that was like, a lot.) So it's a HUGE DEAL that somehow Ms. Hand's made me like Christian as well.I don't even know what to say about this, except DUDE, Ms. Hand's writing is remarkable. Seriously.Initial review: I AM SERIOUSLY CRAVING SOME TUCKER. allright, that makes me sound sort of stupid, but really, how could anyone not adore him?! I mean, come on:*swoon*
That said, though, if I DO have to read about love triangles, this was one of the better-handled ones.I reread Unearthly before I started on Hallowed, and I was struck anew by how much I enjoyed the book.
(hide spoiler)]But I felt like the spotlight focused so heavily on Clara, and her internalizing of every emotion she felt, her thoughts, her motivations, her struggle against all the changes in her life, that pretty much everything else in the book took a backseat.
From the very beginning of this book, there is a sense of doom hanging around this relationship; if Clara loved Tucker as much as she says she does, why doesn't she fight harder?
I am going to have to sadly admit that this series is not my cup of tea.
I tried to like Unearthly after reading all the rave reviews but found it only okay, it didn't blow my mind like I was so sure it would.
Hallowed was even less appealing to me, I read three chapters and even that was a struggle - but now I do think I'm starting to see why.
I think if I happened to meet Clara in real life, let's just say she enrolled at my university, we would be friendly to one another, perhaps mumble a po
I tried to like Unearthly after reading all the rave reviews but found it only okay, it didn't blow my mind like I was so sure it would.
Hallowed was even less appealing to me, I read three chapters and even that was a struggle - but now I do think I'm starting to see why.
It's not like every reader doesn't know already that there's a whole love triangle thing going on...
In these chapters, apart from a quick recap of what happened in the first book, we spend all the time in the middle of Clara's daydreams of marriage and babies.
In addition to Clara's anxiety over her failure to fulfill her purpose at the end of Unearthly, she starts having more visions, this time predicting the death of someone close to her.
The way Clara's purpose appears to come back and back again, I am afraid the series has an option of becoming a never-ending stream of books, all focusing on a purpose which so far looks exclusively romance-related (just today I read on the author's website that there might be more than 3 books in, what I originally thought, was a trilogy).
Tucker I already miss you!!!...Yup, ^^ that about sums up this review:(
Check it out.____________________Wow, I....Ms. Hand, what have you done to me?This book was such an emotional roller coaster, I can't even tell you.Clara.
Upchuck.”How could I not love her after saying that?Anyhow, let us move on to Tucker and Christian...
Oh boy.In my review of book one, I stated that Christian was a mere obstacle to me, and that my heart belonged completely, 1000% to Tucker.
But in this book, Cynthia Hand made both these guys completely irresistable.
I cannot deny that Christian swept me off my feet in this book.
I both love and hate Hand for being able to do that.
Clara is awaiting the return of the Black Wing and dealing with her newfound relationship with Tucker whilst Christian is in the background being all sexy and mysterious.Struggling with how her purpose ended up last book, she is losing faith in herself and distrusting her family.I felt like the strong characters and great writing by Hand really carried this novel because otherwise it might struggle very strongly from middle book syndrome.
I liked this book better than the first one and I felt like the writing was just a little tighter and stronger in this one.Over all, a good, solid second installment from Hand and I look forward to the next.
Really good but depressing.
Not quite as good as the first so I'm still between a 4 and 5.
Tucker is so hot.
I don't understand why a few jumped to Christian's side in this book.
I thought he was a bit of a D-Bag and I really wanted Tucker to hit him.
I'll need a little digesting and to calm down before I can write my review.
She said I could share so this is basically my whole review of this book!
LOL My review-Love Tucker!
Hate Christian!
lol
When a recurring dream hints at the funeral of someone close to her, she hastens to find answers of who, when, where, and why -- even as she must contend with her feelings for two vastly different boys who represent two very different choices and futures.Much like its predecessor, Hallowed was a pleasant surprise to me: not only did it continue its subversion of many of the common tropes to be found in young adult paranormal romances, but it also managed to avoid the trap of the "sequel slump" (where the second book in a series feels more like filler than a necessary story).
Full review to come.Review: When HarperCollins released Hallowed on netgalley, it seemed all my reading buddies stopped whatever they were reading and charged straight into book two.
After Unearthly was so universally loved (by hard core critics, fans of YA paranormal and non-fans of YA paranormal, aka: me) Hallowed was an insanely anticipated released.
I felt for the characters (as a whole, Hallowed is a sad, sombre kind of book that induces an achey feeling...).
Hallowed will be out in Australia on January 1 (although last year, HarperCollins released Unearthly early, making it available for Christmas ~ so keep an eye out!) and in the US January 17.
Even now, I can think of several problems that I have with this book, and yet; my major feeling upon reaching the last page was, “that was pretty good.” And I find myself right back here, in the place where I am filled with worried speculation…this time for book three.
And I think that I would be okay with her placidity if I felt that it was a true representation of her character, but unfortunately, it feels more like a device to stall the progression of the story.
Three of the worst YA series all feature angels, and until Unearthly, I thought perhaps it was impossible to write a decent angel book.
(Did I mention Tucker?) Ever since I closed the pages of Unearthly, I've been clamoring for a sequel.In Cynthia Hand's follow-up novel, she DELIVERS.
My heart was aching--ACHING--when I finished this book.Cynthia Hand, how did you make me like Christian?
I'm as TEAM TUCKER as they come, and yet you drew me in to see Christian's goodness and charm and caring with such a sly hand.
I'm no advocate of love triangles, but this one is as good as they come.And the writing?
On tonight's episode of “As the Angel's fly” (aka as part 2 of the Unearthly series), we have lovely Clara ….I refuse to call this a book.
If I want resolutions, read stand alone books right?
My answer...because I've read plenty of books in series where the author writes complete stories and not just events that prepare you for the next part in the series.What really happened in this part 2 of this series?
What will happen to Jeffrey, well, we will have to wait and see- in other words, part 3!Something happens between Clara and Tucker.
With Hallowed, just like with Unearthly, I find myself closing the book with a huge flashing question mark on top of my head.
In Hallowed we find Clara dealing with the consequences of the events of Unearthly and the whole story revolves around her getting another disturbing vision.
For most of the questions I asked myself at the end of Unearthly, I saw the answer coming from a mile away (view spoiler)[I nearly threw the book to the wall when the glorious dad appeared in all his beauty, thus making Clara the RAREST of them all.
Oh boy, what a ride. Reading this book felt like flying with the wings wide open (not that I know how does that feel, but I can only imagine): I’ve been falling in love again with these characters, I’ve gasped at every surprise, I’ve smiled and I’ve even cried, I’ve felt Clara’s insecurities and frustrations, and her need to be happy, to find her purpose and make it all right again, also her need to find her own path, to make her own decisions. How much of it is just purpose and how much of it i
And also our boys are back to make Clara’s life a bit more complicated (not that it was simple to begin with).I bet you all want(ed) to know more about Clara’s parents, and some things that you didn’t really get about the night with the fire, I bet you all want(ed) to know how Clara’s life will change now that she has a human boyfriend (Tucker) and she knows more about the boy from her dream (Christian), and if you are like me you want(ed) to know more about her brother as well (I always had this feeling that there is more to him that meets the eye, and as far as I’ve seen there is even more) ..So yes, you will get some answers – some of them will surprise you, some of them won’t, but for every answer you get another question pops into your mind, so don’t worry too much if you get a bid angsty at some point.This is what I liked about this book – it makes you think ..
Also, after finishing Unearthly I thought that Hand was going to turn Jeffrey bad, maybe drive him toward the Black Wings, but no at the end of Hallowed that hadn't happened.
It'll probably open up new plotlines in the future.I still don't like Christian and am rather upset that he will end up in the next book.
I hope he ends up an asshole and somehow Hand turns Tucker supernatural so that he can be with Clara.
I hope the next book is better and that Clara and Christian DO NOT end up together.Please?
“Our purpose on this earth is not one single event, an accomplishment we can check off a list. There is no test. No passing or failing. There's only us, each moment shaping who we are, into what we will become.”   I loved this book, I enjoyed it much more than the first one, and although at first I was somewhat heavy, on the other hand its content is very interesting.And even though I have many questions, I think it answered a few at this timeI remember the first book although it was a beautif
I loved this book, I enjoyed it much more than the first one, and although at first I was somewhat heavy, on the other hand its content is very interesting.And even though I have many questions, I think it answered a few at this timeI remember the first book although it was a beautiful and light reading , I didn't feel shocked me at any time, in this case I felt caught in an opportunity, that has cast myself even more hooked with the plot.
WARNING: SPOILERS abound!!Actual rating: 2.5 starsAhhh..this book is like marmite, you either love it or you don't.
I would have been ok with this, If there was some extraordinary reason that never crossed my mind, but no....(view spoiler)[she doesn't die in some heroic way or in some epic battle with Samjeeza (the evil dude) but rather..get this...she gets too old.
But I have to say that one thing I did like was that we do find out more about Christian, Jeffery's purpose and Clara's mum & dad.
(view spoiler)[Just like the first book, there's always someone to save our damsel in distress.
It was very much a "middle" book, but one of the best I've ever read.Hallowed gets us reacquainted with Clara, Tucker, Christian and, with a more important part in this sequel, Carla's brother Jeffrey as well as her mother, Maggie.
Like Unearthly, Hallowed is not a fast, high action book.
The slow but steady pace makes it a highly character driven novel with realistic relationships and an intriguing progression that you have time to savor.It's been said that Cynthia Hand has written one of the greatest love triangles in the YA genre.
Cynthia Hand does not disappoint with this second novel in the Unearthly series *claps*.
I'm trying out this new thing where I leave out rants in my reviews.
So far, I'm managing.
Here it goes: Hallowed was up to par with Unearthly anyway that I'm willing to oversee the character flaws, undesired story scenes and overflowing emotional drama.
Like the way Clara's dad just popped out of NOWHERE.
That was really, I mean reaalllyy emotional and satisfying and surprise worthy.
But not to Clara, apparently.
Can't help it, it's just weird that after seventeen years of not showing up, there were no conflict about that.
But, hey, that's the way the story goes.
Nevertheless, I liked Hallowed.
Clara has deviated from what she thought was her purpose of rescuing Christian, to save Tucker first.
Christian tries to get closer to Clara, realizing that she was the one from his vision; she was his purpose somehow too.
Also, I sort of felt it was his own fault Clara ended up falling in love with Tucker.
I get this feeling, things are not all as they appear with her.Like I said this book was such an emotional read for me, for several reasons!
Don't let this deter you from reading the book though.
Spoilers ahead!(view spoiler)[Jeffrey: So why exactly is so much attention being paid to Clara regarding her purpose?
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Following her Purpose: So even though I was really happy about how Clara decided to love who she wanted in Unearthly (despite her Purpose), I did have a feeling that it was going to be short-lived.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Religion:Yes, I understand I’m reading a book about angels so I should expect at least some bits about religion; HOWEVER, in Unearthly the religion aspects were balanced beautifully and I didn’t grumble once.
Christian since finding out Clara was the girl from his vision, is now cozying up to her, naturally this confuses our already confused heroine.
Everyone just kept secrets in this book and I didn't see any good reason why..it just felt contrived to add more drama and mystery.
just Clara's new visions and her dramatic love life.
By the end of the book we still don't know her purpose but Clara and Christian both assume that their sole purpose in life is to be together..
It was slow and honestly just lead up for the finale.
Obviously, things to happen but (view spoiler)[Clara's mum dying was a cop out in order to get rid of the parental elements of the story.
(hide spoiler)]I'm really bad at reviewing series, especially the middle book.
It was slow and I almost gave up half way through this particular novel.
I may end up adding more to this review but for now I'm still processing all that happened and not sure how to describe it since I don't want to delve to far into the world of spoilers.
That book, despite being a fluffy YA paranormal romance posed fantastic questions about fate, free will, and (I believe) the nature of good and evil.
But for every bit of background information that is provided, more mysteries are created because we really don't spend much time with the supporting characters (other than Tucker and Christian.) This novel is all about Clara.
It's one of those character driven novels which I believe will set the stage for the final installment of this series.
One of the things I loved so very much about Unearthly is how average Clara is.
The journey of this novel could be described as being similar to the journey of trekking up a steep hill; you may hike up that hill for what may feel like forever, go through some hardships during the trip, go through and find some things you may not like about that journey, but once you reach the peak of the hill and look out at the vast expanse of land out in front of you, you know without a doubt in the world that you'd trek up the hill once more to see such beauty.
Which is why it surprised the hell out of me when I was left feeling both slightly numb but also winded, not knowing quite where it came from but hitting me, nonetheless, all in a sudden rush.Its funny how Hallowed is a book about angels yet the message in it (excuse the pun) is unabashedly human.
Its a determined grandness, slightly romantic but definitely resolute, like finally dusting yourself off, lifting your head and taking that first step towards what's coming; some of that may even be defeat, a resignation to the trials of life because you can't always fight against what the universe throws at you.
