https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119933.This_is_Not_a_Pipe
ایشان شیفته ی چیزی بودند، که خود آن را «دَرهَمستان» نامیده است؛ در این «درهمستان»، هستی به گونه ­ای ست، که به درستی، چیزها، هیچ پیوندی با یکدیگر ندارند، زیربنایی وجود ندارد، تا بتواند بین آن چیزها با یکدیگر، دست کم به صورت نامتناسب، تناسب بیافریند، آن چیزها تنها در کنار هم هستند.
یک واژه، به راستی، همان چیزی است که در واژه، باز تابیده، که شکل یک چپق، به راستی، خود چپق است؟ ما به هنگام شناسایی نقاشی می­گوییم: «این یک چپق نیست»، واژه­ ای که تا بر لب جاری شود، سد راهش می­شویم.
This is not a review. Please flag.
Bu kitapta Foucault, Magritte'nin La Trahison des Images (1929) (İmgelerin İhaneti)'den etkilenerek yazdığı ve kitaplaştırdığı bir eleştiri/analiz/fikir beyanı yazısı :) Üstüne diyecek çok bir şey yok, üstelik sadece La Trahison des Images değil, ilerleyen bölümlerde Foucault'un felsefi olarak irdelediği diğer eserleri de var Magritte'nin.Zaten -yine sanırım gerçekten büyük ihtimal- en sevdiğim sanat akımı da surreal (gerçeküstü) olduğu için okumasından çok keyif aldım ben.
Üç tavsiyem olacak; öncelikle Foucault hakkında biraz okumanız ki felsefesini çözümleyebilmeye çalışın (dili açısından da yardımcı olur), Magritte ve bu tablosunu hakkında okumanız çünkü kitap içinde web ağzıyla değil terimler kullanılıyor, önceden (yorum)okuma yapmak Foucaultca'daki karşılığını daha iyi anlarsınız, diye düşüyorum.
Çünkü neden olmasın?Benzeyiş-andırışvb.ikoNot: Magritte'nin 2 mektubu var Foucault'a yazdığı, onları hep vb.
I am familiar with a small range of Foucault's work (Discipline and Punish; The History of Sexuality; Madness and Civilization; governmentality), and so I can see how the threads of discourse bound this work and frame it from a distance, but it reads in a very different vein than those works more familiar to me.
And this is crucial: so rarely do I feel that anything Foucault proposes is empowering, so concerned is he with the chains that dominate and discipline us.And that, for now, must be enough.
Questo non è una recensione."Questo" non è una recensione."Questo non è una recensione" non è una recensione.Recensione: questo non è.Recensione: "Questo" non è.Recensione: "Questo non è una recensione" non è.La coppia Michel - René è la pace dei sensi (di marcia) (del pensiero).
The book defies the term contradiction, explains it, and changes the way you look at it, just as it does to a dozen other day to day terms.This was my eye opener.
I still have a long way to fully understand this book, and I doubt I ever will, That's why Five out of five is barely enough.
اين يک چپق نيست عنوان تابلويي از رنه مگريت است. فوکو با تکيه از نقاشي بي نظير اين يک چپق نيست به نقد زبانشناسانه ي مدرني مي پردازد که بي نظير است . کتاب کوتاهي اما بسيار فني و پيچيده است
میشل فوکو در کتاب «این یک چپق نیست» که به تشریح و تحلیل تابلویی با همین نام از «رنه ماگریت» اختصاص دارد، به نوعی نگاه معناشناختی و هرمنوتیکی خود را با ما درمیان میگذارد.
ماگریت بانگاهی ساختارشکنانه و یا طنزآمیز، رابطه واژه و شیء، یا دال و مدلول را در آثارش به هم ریخته است.
ماگریت در آثار خود محور ارجاعی را در توضیح، از میان برمیدارد تا چیزها نتوانند مدعی نشستن بر مسند الگو و سرچشمه باشند.
او رابطه دال و مدلول را زیر سوال میبرد تا بگوید آنچه که در مقام واقع قرار گرفته و مدلولی را شکل داده لزوما ب
این تابلو مانند تابلوی اول است اما چپق و نوشته در یک قاب و روی سه‌پایه نقاشی قرار گرفته‌اند و سه‌پایه نیز بر روی زمین با کفپوشی چوبی، و بر فراز همه اینها چپقی شبیه همان چپق تصویر اما بسیار بزرگتر روی هوا قرار گرفته است.
در مقابل نوشته روی قاب نه می‌تواند عنوان نقاشی باشد و نه یکی از عناصر تصویری، هیچ رد دیگری هم از هنرمند در این اثر وجود ندارد.
This is not a book as much as an essay, really. Following soon after his seminal work, The Order of Things (Les Mots et les choses), Foucault's 1968 essay not only offers a insightful study of Magritte's famous Treachery of Images (Ceci n'est pas une pipe), it also provides an introduction to the French philosopher himself.
هم کتاب خوبیه هم خوب ترجمه شده،قشنگ معلومه مانی حقیقی وقت گذاشته برا ترجمه ش.دمش گرم!ا
Perhaps worth reading in parallel with Mieville's Last Days of New Paris along with Breton.In depth analysis of the painting of the same name:  and then also Much discussion of “what lends the figure its strangeness is not the ‘contradiction’ between the image and the text” (19), as “contradiction can only exist between two statements” (id.).
(30) Leads thereafter into a discussion of two principles that ruled painting: “The first asserts the separation between plastic representation (which implies resemblance) and linguistic reference (which excludes it).
The second principle “posits an equivalence between the fact of resemblance and the affirmation of a representative bond” (34).Analysis thereafter of other Magritte images, such as Person walking toward the horizon, “the converse of a rebus” (40).
His concepts and language require much of the reader, making re-readings and multiple contemplations frequent requirements.
Foucault’s assessment of René Magritte’s work, which comprises the bulk of the discussion, is imminently interesting, especially when he strays from the titular Pipe paintings and goes toe to toe with a series of Magritte’s works stressing the limitations of the perceptions of assumed representation.
Nevertheless, this short and useless digression aside, Pipe is a challenging (and occasionally frustrating)consideration of our concepts of reality, perceptions, images and the manner in which they are all represented in art and in the imagination.
Creo que es uno de esos libros que habría que leer fumando una pipa (con marihuana).
مگریت و فوکو و مانی حقیقی. :)
Dili dille kıran Nietszche ve Foucault'dan sonra dili resmiyle çökerten Magritte'i yine Foucault'yla sorgulamak isteyenleri beğeneceği bir eser.Yalnız kitabı okumak isteyeceklere bir kaç öneride bulunmak gerek:Görsel hafızanızda René'nin, Kandinsky'nin ve Klee'nin eserleri yoksa, kitabı okurken yanınızda bir bilgisayar bulundursanız iyi olur.
İnternetten eserleri açıp Foucault'yla birlikte incelemeniz gerekecek.Bunun dışında yine Kandinsky ve Klee'nin eserlerindeki felsefe hakkında; yahut eserlerini yaratmaya iten düşünceleri hakkında bir kaç yazı okumakta fayda var.Kitabın yine son bölümlerinde Foucault'nun dipnot olarak eklediği eseri ben şimdiden söyleyeyim.
When looking at Rene Magritte's Painting of a pipe and underneath this painting in neat script is written "Ceci n'est pas une pipe" which is french for "This is not a Pipe." You begin to wonder what this means.
It may just be surrealistic art but Michel Foucault really shows us his deep thoughts about this painting and its meaning.
I think that it is saying that this drawing of the pipe is not the pipe itself.
Foucault starts off the book with the explanation of how the text below the pipe even associates the pipe at all.
Foucault borrowed the concept of calligramme to illustrate how Magritte's painting "This is not a pipe" unites semiotic symbols and picture, and also employed the concepts of resemblance and similarity to present this painting as a perfect representation of "ideas" and a rebellion against paintings pursuing similarity... However Magritte understands it as an affirmation, in the ambiguity and confusion caused by the words and picture, a truthful image of the object appears in the audience's mind.
flurging excellent book. can't praise it enough. without sounding obsequious
زبان پیچیدهای داشت و فقط تونستم مفهوم و ایده کلی کتاب رو بفهمم. البته بعضی جاهاش خوب بود، ولی در کل کتاب سختی بود. ولی جالب!اگر به نقاشی یا سورئالیستها علاقه دارید، کتاب رو بخونید!
زبان پیچیده‌ای داشت و فقط تونستم مفهوم و ایده کلی کتاب رو بفهمم. البته بعضی‌ جاهاش خوب بود، ولی در کل کتاب سختی بود. ولی جالب!اگر به نقاشی یا سورئالیست‌ها علاقه دارید، کتاب رو بخونید!
Magritte writes, 'It seems to me that, for example, green peas have between them relations of similitude, at once visible (their color, form, size) and invisible (their nature, taste, weight).
Things do not have resemblances, they do or do not have similitudes.
It resembles by being what it sees, hears, or knows; it becomes what the world offers it.'In a way it reminds me of the conclusion of Barthes' Mythologies, where you can repeatedly deconstruct the linguistic form or myths down to the foundational myth: that of signs and signifiers.
Reading pleasure- 2⭐️, perspectives offered - 4⭐️
"Η ζωγραφική έπαψε να καταφάσκει"
در مقایسه با برگردانهای اخیر نوشتههای فیلسوفان قارهای به فارسی، این کتاب که سال اولین چاپش ۱۳۷۵ است بسیار دقیق ترجمه شده و با یادداشتهای روشنگری در باب ریزهکاریهای برخی عبارات در زبان مبدأ همراه است. ضعفش در این است که عکسهای نقاشیهای ماگریت سیاه و سفید چاپ شده و دو تا از آنها سانسور شدهاست.
در مقایسه با برگردان‌های اخیر نوشته‌های فیلسوفان قاره‌ای به فارسی، این کتاب که سال اولین چاپش ۱۳۷۵ است بسیار دقیق ترجمه شده و با یادداشت‌های روشنگری در باب ریزه‌کاری‌های برخی عبارات در زبان مبدأ همراه است. ضعفش در این است که عکس‌های نقاشی‌های ماگریت سیاه و سفید چاپ شده و دو تا از آن‌ها سانسور شده‌است.
The book did not have any such descriptions making it seem to be getting off on a much better foot.
Being that Foucault is not one of the philosophers whom I constantly stand in the same position with, I do unfairly require more work from him in an essay than I may from Hitchens or even someone I find interesting like Paul Tillich or Kierkegaard.
I say these things to pre-establish that I am away that I am judging Foucault more harshly then I judge people stand in a different relation.
Foucault goes on multiple tangents that soundmore like his intellectual fantasy then anything that relates to reality.
Rene Magritte'in "bu bir pipo değildir" tablosundan yola çıkarak, bu tabloyu ve o dönemde kendisinin de sorguladığı benzemek ve andırmak kelimeleri üstüne bir kitap...
Bu kitabını okumadan önce Kelimeler ve Şeyler kitabını okumuş olsaydım daha açık ve anlaşılır gelebilirdi.
Bir nesne olan piponun tam olarak (hiç değiştirilmeden) resmeden Rene Magritte tabloya bir de yazı iliştirmiştir.
"Bu bir pipo değildir".
Ressam eğer altına bu bir pipo değildir yazıyorsa da, bu bizi çelişkiye düşürmek ve o bize ne gösteriyorsa olduğu, kendi üretim, tanımlama ve benzetmelerimizin bu tabloda bir anlam bulmayacağını apaçık etmektedir.
Gerçeküstücü bir ressam olan Rene Magritte, resme bilinçdışı yaklaşımıyla bizi de kendiliğimizden ve doğrularımızdan hatta kelimelerimizden uzaklaştırır.
I'm sure there has been several interpretations of this picture from readers and, Foucault himself.
However, what came to me when I read the book and looked at the picture and/or title, is just that.
It is not a pipe, but a picture of a pipe.
No matter how it's situated, the size, frame, the artist is telling you it is a picture.
However, one can only guess when it comes to Foucault.
I'm sure he loved being a puzzle of sorts.
However, I found some of his philosophies quite interesting, so much so, they'll be deeply rooted in my head for years to come.
Rene Magritte turned art on its head by combining words and images in a way that at first seems whimsical or poppy but then as you continue to sit with it allows you to weaken your stranglehold on what you have constructed as reality.Foucault somehow managed to see and grasp that process at work and manages to describe it and delve deeply into it in a intellectually beautiful and pun-filled way.Short and sweet, worth the read if you like either of the two or like art criticism or philosophy of reality or just want to look at some amazing pictures.
ever wanted to know why magritte's pipe isn't? this is foucault's explanation, an interesting depiction of the unspokeness of representation as decoded and emphasized in margritte's paintings. this is a brief investigation into the infinite space between words and images. reminded me of a comic book artist friend - who told me that the most important part of a comic illustration was the space (the gutter?) between two panels. this is where the mind must create the undepicted connection that links the panels. very interesting stuff.
«نشانهها، که بهگونهای زیرکانه بر صفحهای از کاغذ آراسته شدهاند، همان چیزی را متجلی میکنند که از آن سخن نیز میگویند، از بیرون، از راه حاشیهای که رسم میکنند از راه پدیدار شدن حجمشان بر فضای خالی صفحه. و در ازای این، شکل مرئی حفاری میشود، چروکیده بهدست واژههایی که از درون خراشش میدهند و با نادیده گرفتن حضور ساکن و مبهم و بینام، سرچشمه دلالتهایی که بر آن نام میگذارند را به فوران وامیدارند، تعیینش میکنند و در جهان سخن قرارش میدهند»
«نشانه‌ها، که به‌گونه‌ای زیرکانه بر صفحه‌ای از کاغذ آراسته شده‌اند، همان چیزی را متجلی می‌کنند که از آن سخن نیز می‌گویند، از بیرون، از راه حاشیه‌ای که رسم می‌کنند از راه پدیدار شدن حجم‌شان بر فضای خالی صفحه. و در ازای این، شکل مرئی حفاری می‌شود، چروکیده به‌دست واژه‌هایی که از درون خراشش می‌دهند و با نادیده گرفتن حضور ساکن و مبهم و بی‌نام، سرچشمه دلالت‌هایی که بر آن نام می‌گذارند را به فوران وامی‌دارند، تعیینش می‌کنند و در جهان سخن قرارش می‌دهند»
Not a light read, but can be read on the fly. What I truly like about this book is the close relationship between the core ideas of Foucault's analysis (specially his insight on the art as representation) and the current tensions between art and digitalia. The letter exchange between Foucault and Magritte is a perfect addendum. A must read.
Amusing how Foucault does all sorts of exercises addressing such simple matter. He explains the Magritte's painting from several angles. This stuff stretched my imagination a bit. Of course Magritte was masterful creating things to throw people out of common sense. Such an impolite artist. Provoking us to think!
