https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263728.Clifford_s_Family
Probably somewhere around a level 1 reading book that we all love, mostly because it's big, adorable, lovable Clifford. This is a great one to read if you have a different family structure or even if you're child is learning about what family means in social studies class. Great pictures and enjoyed by all ages in my family, it's also good for beginner readers.
This was an excellent book to describe the aspect of family. The book also contrasted city and farm life. The pictures were phenomenal. Like all Clifford books, the friendship between a dog and it's owner was presented.
This book tells the heartwarming story of Clifford's family and the different lives they each lead. Yet, while they each lead different lives outside of their family, they always come back to their home and have one fundamental thing they share in common which is love.
Everyone's favorite Big Red Dog, Clifford, takes a trip with Emily Elizabeth (Emilia Isabel) to visit his family. Clifford has a big family, but he is a big dog, so it is no surprise that his family each has a big job! His sister is a seeing-eye dog, and his brother is a firedog. His other sister is a sheepdog in the country, and his father herds children. Clifford is so proud of his family! A great book that introduces children to different working-dog jobs in the city and the country. Re-read 27 August 2015Read the review here:https://ermareads.wordpress.com/child...
Our copy is from Kohl's and is bound in the same hardcover book as "Clifford the Big Red Dog." Robert would call this a five-star. I do like the different types of working dogs Clifford's siblings represent, as well as the different places people (and dogs) can live. My one complaint is that the illustrations don't seem to be of as good quality as in the first book. I doubt Robert notices, but I do, and it bugs me.
This story talks about all the members of Clifford's family and the type of work they do.
Clifford visits his relatives--each relative has a different life/occupation. A fun book for pre-schoolers--mostly pictures -- one sentence max per page.
What is it like to watch your loved ones die?This is the monolithic question Clifford faces, over and over again, as he's forced to watch his family be ripped from the Earth in an agonizing departure.Yes, Clifford is a great beast.No, he is incapable of keeping those he holds in his heart safe from the greater beasts of the outer realms.
Emily Elizabeth attempted to summon Clifford's ancestors to join him in his renewal of life on Earth but...something went wrong.
He cannot save his family, as they are, each day, tortured and ripped from their womb of safety, being torn into the infinite creatures that rest behind the gates of the universe.Clifford cannot scream, as his family screams for him.4/5.
Clifford goes to find his family in this book.
He finds his mother in an apartment complex, and she "treats him like a puppy" by checking his teeth and his ears.
He finds his sister, Claudia, who works as a service dog.
A brother, Nero, was a rescue dog at a fire station.
We find his other sister, Bonnie, working on a farm.
4 stars for this book because it's Clifford.
I wish we could get into more detail about his family, but this book could lead into great discussions about what a family is and why we have families the way we do.
I love reading Clifford stories and watching the two series with my children! We enjoy the stories that are told through Emily Elizabeth and Clifford's best friends. If you are looking for something morally correct and wholesome to share, the Clifford series by Norman Bridwell are the books for you!
guiar- to guide
We get to see all of Clifford's family.
Clifford is such a loved character that students will enjoy.
Cute. My daughter's favorite pages by far are the ones of Clifford's dad.
It would be great to have English versions of this story available too.
I also think ELL students would appreciate the inclusion of Spanish only books in the classroom.
It could make the transition into an English only classroom a little less stressful because they will have access to the comfort of a native language book on a regular basis.
This book would also be great to let students take home.
Some ELLs may be more likely to read at home if they have access to Spanish books, especially if it helps parents get involved in the reading.
It talks about a dog named Clifford and his family before he moved into his owner Emily Elizabeth.
Each dog family member has a place that they live in and a job that they perform.
It teaches children about the importance of family but in the end it also teaches that you don't have to live with your family because the only thing that matters is that you are in a place where the people that surround you love you.
Even though Emily Elizabeth is Clifford's adopted family she loves him and that is all that matters.
On an all day trip Clifford and Emily go to visit all of Clifford's Family. Each of his family has an important job to show all the jobs that dogs can do for people. This is a good teaching tool to show how people and dogs help each other. The other topic is the importance of family even after the children grow up and live away from home, which is a concept many children do not fully understand. My preschool class loves this book.
Clifford's Family I think is Norman Bridwell's way of giving us a little background of why Clifford has the characteristics he has. Except, all of Clifford's family is normal dog size which is weird. But as I was reading it to a four year old it didn't seem to bother him. Also this is a great story for compassion because all of Clifford's family members are live with their own family for certain reasons.
This book is about family and friends. Clifford goes back to see his mother and find his siblings and goes searching for them through the big city with his owner Emiy. Clifford the Big Red Dog was one of my favorite childhood series this is a cute series to follow and read, and a great way to get kids interested in reading books.
Another very uniquely good entry in the series of books about Clifford, the Big Red Dog. I've come to regard Norman Bridwell as one of the best contemporary authors of illustrated books for younger readers, and "Clifford's Family" maintained his reputation in my eyes. The simple narrative is very well done, and the illustrations include a lot of little extras, perfect for the picture book set.
Who doesn't enjoy a good old Childhood favorite. Clifford is everyone's favorite big, red, dog. There's not much to say, all i can say is that its another great book about Clifford's family. You can never go wrong with picking up one of these books. All Clifford books are awesome.
this book Clifford is missing living in the city and his family. So he and Emily Elizabeth go 'visit' he finds his mother and his sister (who is a seeing eye dog) his brother (who is a fire fighter dog) and his dad who has a family of human children that love him.
This book is all about Clifford's family members. Each of his family members lives in different parts of the city and leads very different lives. However, they still love each other and stay in touch.
CliffordMy children really like Clifford. They enjoy the books and the television series. In this book, Clifford visits his parents, brothers and sisters. It's a cute, little story.
Clifford visits his mother, his sister Claudia, and his brother Nero in the city. Claudia is a guide dog. Nero is a rescue dog. Clifford visits his sister Bonnie in the country. Bonnie is a farm dog who herds sheep. Clifford visits his father in a nearby town.
Completely Spanish book describing Clifford. Would be nice to read the English version alongside for students to feel a stronger connection. Would also be a great choice for a student to take home and read. Even if it is in Spanish, they are still reading, practicing inflection, etc.
Clifford goes to meet his birth family
Clifford visits the various members of his family and sees who they live with.
I enjoy reading this series to and with my grandchildren.
Clifford goes on a trip to visit all of his family members that he hasn't seen in a while. The story shows how important family is and how each individual dog (or human) has a purpose. Ages 3-8.
