https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/410760.Ship_of_Fools
The idea for Ship of Fools originated in a voyage that Katherine Anne Porter took from Mexico to Europe in 1931.
Said Porter of the voyage -- "We embarked on an old German ship at Vera Cruz and we landed in Bremen twenty-eight days later.
I think Porter was instead saying salvation is available to us only if we give up our illusions.Ship of fools is set aboard the Vera, a passenger freighter, as it makes a twenty-seven-day journey from Veracruz to Germany in the summer of 1931.
Katherine Anne Porter's powers of perception are so keen that she's the kind of person I would never want to have around as a friend.
Everything would be stripped down in her gaze, leaving little room for cherished illusions.The book captures this perfectly: She simultaneously depicts the short-comings of a world on the brink of World War II and scrutinizes those flaws that are endemic to all cultures and times.
The meanness and arbitrary ways in which people subdivide who they consider equals are examined with Porter's scalpel.Be prepared for some discomfort: You may see a few habits of your own on display.
And I can understand why it might not appeal to some readers - it's long, it's old (published in 1962, but takes place in 1931), there are about a million characters and all the action (or inaction) takes place over a thirty day ship voyage from Mexico to Germany and is based on a similar voyage taken by Porter.And I loved everything about it.
Some are fairly bad, few are truly good and Porter strips everything away so that the reader sees the real person beyond the sex, race, nationality or class.
Katherine Anne Porter’s Ship of Fools* is based on sea voyage the author actually took in 1931 from Mexico to Germany.
As the reader we are given a privileged position—to watch the antics of this voyage, an allegory for Life.At first I thought it would be difficult to keep track of so many characters, but it wasn’t.
Maybe it was the title, but I kept thinking of Erasmus’s Praise of Folly.
This would be an EXCELLENT book group read!
Have somehow missed Katherine Porter up until now, more's the pity, but her book's description was so compelling I decided to check it out.
(This was given to me as a masterwork to contemplate as I revise my own, far poorer, fleet of vices.) The book takes its time without lagging, painstakingly rising to violence--every kind of subtle violence.I found Porter's eye for human interiority unfailingly astute.
This skill reminded me a few times of Jane Austen, but Porter wields a much broader and bolder scope on human drama.
She renders male characters with equal depth and nuance, but I'd say her lapidary interest & sheer insight into those nuances comes off to me as a particularly female skill.
Katherine Anne Porter was a Southern writer who wrote tons of short stories with only one or two characters set in her own distinctive world, but in this epic novel she creates a huge cast of characters from all nationalities and races and shows all of their turbulent adventures aboard a cruise ship just before World War II.
What's so amazing about this book is that it explores one theme over and over, the idea that we can never really know anything about the people around us.
On board this ship are rich and poor, men and women, Mexicans and Germans, (and Americans) and all of them are blind to each other's real natures.
The most admirable people turn out to be weak and corrupt.
The theme of the novel is the passengers' unavailing withdrawal from a life of disappointment, seeking a kind of utopia, and, "without knowing what to do next", setting out for a long voyage to pre-World-War-II Europe, a world of prejudice, racism and evil.Source: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...…This is a leisurely paced and highly engaging panorama of humanity by a writer with a gift for creating subtle, picturesque prose and beguiling characters.
Porter presents a microcosm of the human comedy in this account of the passengers aboard a ship headed from Mexico to Germany in 1931 whose lives become intertwined in various ways during the voyage, sometimes comically, sometimes heroically, sometimes tragically.Source: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
Add to this heady mix the ethic, racist and societal tensions among Germans, Americans, Jewish, Spanish and Cubans and the reader knows form the beginning that this will be the quintessential 'bumpy ride' for all concerned.
Originally begun in the 1930's, Porter did not publish this novel until the early 1960's.
Most of the Germans come off as stiff-necked, self-righteous and racist, the Americans are either self-absorbed, vulgar or unstable, and the Spanish passengers are depicted as brutal, opportunistic criminals.
Ship of Fools captures the mood and diversity of passengers at sea during this bygone era.The book's strength resides in the various mind-sets of its eclectic group of passengers.
While they come from different backgrounds, different professions, and different places, they all posses that common human trait that becomes readily apparent when diversity is forced upon individuals for prolonged periods of time: pride, in all of its sad manifestations.There is no escaping the foolishness that pride brings to every passenger.
The effect of capturing the somewhat monotonous mood of weeks upon the ocean served to create a similar outlook for the book itself.

It is the tale of a group of disparate characters, from several different countries and backgrounds, who sail from Mexico to Germany aboard a mixed freighter and passenger ship.
In her note prefacing the novel Porter notes that :When I began thinking about my novel, I took for my own this simple almost universal image of the ship of this world on its voyage to eternity.
The ship is populated with a grand complement of passengers (so many that the publisher thoughtfully included a listing of characters preceding the novel proper, xi - xiii).
On board, we have an eclectic group of people- Germans, Americans, Spaniards, Cubans, Swiss and 1 Swede.Throughout the book, I felt like an invisible bystander- I, with the author, moved from one group to another, eavesdropping on their conversations.
Each person dislikes others based on their religion, class, nationality, gender; Each person feels they are the educated one while the other is the fool- but really they are all fools and foolish in their own way.This was a German ship, pre World War II, with all the underlying animosities towards Jews already building.
This book is an excellent depiction of that time.It is in itself a metaphor for people blithely sailing into World War II.An outstanding novel!!
People aren't really this bad, are they? Perhaps I should read this again when feeling perfectly content and at peace with the world. Now was apparently not the right time. I wasn't able to empathize with the miserable lives of these petty, bigoted characters. The relentless misery weighed me down to the point where I couldn't even enjoy the beautiful writing, and just wanted to throw myself overboard. Oh, and I remembered Betty Draper reading this book in an episode of Mad Men. Poor Betty, no wonder she was depressed.
When I started this, I wasn't impressed: yay, another depressingly cynical demonstration of severely non-heroic characters. But something about it pulled me in. Strangely, the experience reminded me a lot of Thomas Mann's Miracle Mountain, in that it is a leisurely and distanced exploration of flawed humanity. It *is* a generally depressing view of life, but it is rich and deep and thought-provoking.
Or a fellow American tells you how much they would rather be eating at Sonic.Katherine Anne Porter is something of a wonder, and she's not getting much attention these days.
In the Flannery O'Connor vein, she's got a lot of fuck-you in her, and while her shorter work is perhaps more distilled...
There's no one main character, there's just conversations among a massive cast of Spaniards, Germans, Americans and more in the years before World War II, and so it reads almost like The Magic Mountain as set on the high seas.
Non esistono “giusti” da caricare su un’arca, neppure su una tanto scalcagnata quanto la motonave “Vera”, né, tantomeno, arche che possano portare in salvo chicchessia.
Cambiano i personaggi, ma restano immutate le ragioni che li muovono.Avrei voluto rivedere il bellissimo film in bianco e nero che ne è stato tratto nel 1965 da Stanley Kramer, che non è proprio fedele al libro, ma è comunque molto riuscito.
E in cui c’è, tra l’altro, una scena che nel libro non esiste, nella quale Denny, uno dei personaggi, racconta la sua ossessione per “le palle curve” che non riusciva a battere quando giocava a baseball.
In 1931 a disparate group of travellers sail to Europe on a German passenger ship, amongst them Americans, German, Mexicans and many other nationalities.
Each one of them hopes to be sailing towards a better and brighter future, but they are of course, quite unwittingly, sailing towards a Europe that will shortly explode into war and mayhem and only disappointment and disillusion await them.
Certainly Porter has no love for her characters, whom she portrays with all their faults and foibles.
I didn’t care about any of this heterogeneous band of unappealing characters and was only too happy to let them sail off into their unsatisfactory future without me.
Let me count the ways." Katherine Anne Porter's novel "Ship of Fools" could be described as 'how do I hate thee, let me count the ways'.
It introduces us to a conglomerate of people from many different social, economic and ethnic backgrounds, traveling from Mexico to Germany in the closed confines of an ocean liner.
The novel is based on Ms. Porter's own experiences in 1931 on just such a voyage.
These characters could only see their fellow passengers as like themselves or different than themselves - like me=good/unlike me=bad.
They could not see the goodness, kindness, and courage in those they perceived as different than themselves.
"Ship of Fools" was published in 1962.
This book took me a long time to get through.
It is one of those old fashioned literary classics written with excruciating attention to detail, character, and physical descriptions that few of us are used to reading anymore, or have the patience or time to sustain.
There is little, if any plot--in fact, the entire story is a metaphor for the human condition--but it was absolutely worth the effort.
Probably not a book for anyone under 40, maybe 50, unless it is required reading for a university class.
Still, I can only recommend it for those who enjoy their literature with some meat on the bones.
I think the four stars is possibly more enthusiasm than I actually possess, but I did like it more than not. Certainly, it's long and lacks a propulsive narrative, but it's also so well written and such an interestingly textured read (Porter has, for example, such a keen eye for the grotesqueries of human nature, both spiritual and bodily), that I found it more compelling than I might otherwise have.
The forced relationships of trans-Atlantic passengers on a German ship from Mexico to Germany, in the early 1930s when the Nazis were about to seize power and had already summoned forth their demons from the small minds of their many followers.
Porter exposes all of the vicious petty class hatreds of the first class passengers and the captain, towards the steerage passengers, and also towards each other, as they obsessively try to determine who is of the higher social rank.
The language of Nazi racism infects many of the discussions, since it was dominating the German discourse in those days, and the people tend to parrot the newspapers.
Porter is most remembered for short stories, but this, her only novel, was excellent!The German passenger-freighter Vera is crossing from Mexico to Germany, in 1931.
Germans, Americans, Spaniards, a Swede and Mexicans make up the 1st-class, and Porter’s portrayal of the human condition is spectacular.
Their prejudices, class differences, fierce nationalism and pride are dissected with skill - all while the Vera heads towards a Europe moving closer to World War Two. The huge character list, their reflections on their own life and the judgements against fellow passengers, and Porter’s powers of perception make this a fabulous read.
I didn't really like this book but kept reading anyway because of Porter's relentless character detail and her staunch refusal to add any redeeming qualities to her characters as the book progressed. The Fellini-esque setting and portrayals also drew me along. (If there were a movie version, costume design would be great fun.) Anyway, I trudged through resolutely until just before the end, when I simply couldn't take any more. I give it three stars, though, for stellar writing and (painfully) astute observation of human failings.
I just can't finish this book after getting more than a quarter of the way through. At this stage of my life, life is too short. I haven't read anything this boring and tiresome in a long, long time. Giving it up and starting a new "Unfinished" shelf in its honor. I never don't finish books... until now. So -- new shelf.
another novel I read many (30 or so) years ago and I quite liked at the time though I now remember it very vaguely - just saw it as a recommendation somewhere and it's definitely a semi-classic that is worth checking out
Too many characters for my addlepated brain to keep track of. I gave up about a third of the way through. I gave it 3 stars because the writing was good. I just didn't know who I was reading about half the time. :-(
Wilhelm Freytag, who has married a beautiful Jewess and suffers from discrimination by both the Jewish and the German communities, is on his way to fetch his wife and her mother to start a new life in South America – his love story is purposely presented as cheaply melodramatic by Porter, as Freytag comes over as a rather narcissistic man.Sorrow, often its dearly embraced form of self-pity and self-abasement, plays another important role in the ongoings on board the Vera, as for example in Elsa, the ugly duckling who despairs of her prospects with regard to her love life, in recently widowed Frau Schmitt, who regards herself as a lone, unprotected and helpless woman in a hostile world, in Herr Glocken, the ostracised disfigured hunchback, or in the lachrymose, remorse-ridden drunkard Baumgarten, who fails to take up responsibility for his family.
The year is 1931, and the action of the book takes place on or within sight of the Vera, a ship departing from Veracruz, Mexico for Europe, with its ultimate destination being Bremerhaven, Germany.
A passage where a character thinks, "You might learn something about one or two persons, if you took the time and trouble, but there was not time enough and it was not worth the trouble..." clearly extends beyond the confines of the ship to castigate the world at large for its indifference.
But it doesn't help that the closest thing to main characters are an entirely frustrating American couple whose relationship is aptly summed up towards the end as the man drinks coffee and hates "the very thought of seeing her and" yet is "hardly able to endure waiting for her." Even if you recognize that relationship you don't necessarily want to read about it for very long.The characters who stand out and make the biggest impact are largely the most repellent ones, meaning the most horribly anti-semitic and racist.
Again, nothing impossible to overcome here and the characters are often wonderfully drawn.
But plotless revulsion needs some deeper grounding or else the reader ends up exhausted and asking "for what?" too frequently.
Later made into a hit movie, "Ship of Fools" tells the almost autobiographical story of a German cargo and passenger ship, The Vera, that sails from Veracruz, Mexico to Bremerhaven, Germany in the late summer of 1931.
The story revolves around the relationships that arise amongst the twenty or so European and American passengers as well as a large group of students and band of gypsies returning to Spain after being stranded in Mexico.
Full of passion as well as the lowest forms of human behavior, "Ship of Fools" keeps the reader engrossed throughout the whole 500 plus pages.
