https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124694.Good_Old_Secret_Seven
The Secret Seven explore a castle13 January 2015 Well, as soon as I started this book before I knew it I had finished it, which is not surprising since the 120 pages uses large type with decent spacing. Hey, it's a kids book so I was hardly expecting Crime and Punishment (though I would be interesting to see if there is a children's version of that book – with pictures). Anyway, the Secret Seven get themselves a telescope, and suddenly discover that Suzie and her friend have also been told that
The Secret Seven explore a castle13 January 2015	Well, as soon as I started this book before I knew it I had finished it, which is not surprising since the 120 pages uses large type with decent spacing.
Anyway, the Secret Seven get themselves a telescope, and suddenly discover that Suzie and her friend have also been told that they can use it, so after being swayed to let Suzie have access to the secret hideout, they decide to use it to check out a castle that happens to be near the village.
Another classic Secret Seven. In this book, the Secret Seven get to use a telescope. This sparked a discussion with my 5 1/2 year old son about how big space was. He came to the conclusion that "Space is so big that it can't even fit in your brain". We also enjoyed discussing the clues in the story and our ideas of what would happen next.
Baru sekali ini baca serinya Sapta Siaga. Seru euy!Kali ini jumlah personilnya lebih banyak dari Lima Sekawan. Ya iyalah namanya aja Sapta Siaga!Ceritanya jauh lebih sederhana dari Lima Sekawan. Bukunya juga tipis. Duduk sejaman juga bisa langsung beres. Siap cari seri-seri berikutnya ah. Tapi klo bisa yg pas lg diskon gocengan kayak buku ini >_<
"'She's more like a boy, really', said Barbara (...) well, you know what I mean.
if she were a boy I'd like her awfully -- but as she's a girl, she's just a nuisance, '"I know this was written in 1960, but come on...Apart from a couple of situations similar to this one I quoted here, I enjoyed this little book.
It certainly reminded me of the books I used to read as a child that were similar to the series, in the sense that they feature a group of kids (be it 5 or 7) that find themselves solving mysteries.
I was asked to read this by a 9-year old, so I did.
I'd say it's a good adventure for someone that age.
Of course, there's the usual business with club secrets and passwords, and there's Scamper the dog in the mix.
In this adventure a present of a telescope leads to seeing something strange which they have to investigate.There's some confusion with times, from the opening sentence, "One morning after school, ...." which was on a Friday.
Did schools at that time finish in the morning?
The other is when Janet's mother says it's getting late, immediately followed by Jack telling Janet he had to get home for an early lunch.
With book #11 barely fading from the eye balls along comes book #12 and more goings on for the seven twerps. Very formulaic and the series has ground into a man these holidays are a bust aren't they nothing going on round here - aha stumble into mystery of some sort - aha convenience and coincidence help us solve it along with every adult within a 100 mile radius being a dunce.
Great Book for age 11-15
Interesting and I want a telescope too now for solving some mysteries and spending good time looking at the night sky of stars moons and galaxy
I enjoyed reading this book. The adventure was very mysterious.This is my first Secret Seven books. I enjoyed reading this mystery. I would continue to read its other books
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.

It's quite an experience re-reading books you loved as a kid. Usually I find the same magic and charm in the pages that I found as a kid (even if the plot seems simplistic), but in this case there were certain attitudes that bothered me; namely, the way Susie was treated by the Secret Seven. I thought they were horrible to her.(It's difficult to be objective with the rating, esp. as my young self would want to give 5 stars, and my old, adult self wants to give it 1, so I'll settle for something in the middle.)
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
Brilliant mystery!!!Loved it from beginning to the end!It all started with Jack's and Susie's telescope and finished in to a successful mystery where the secret seven caught the thieves who stole very valuable paintings and hid them on the old castle's dungeon...Really fun with all those twists and those tricks of Susie.....Amazing book.Thank You Enid Blyton!
The one with the stolen telescope. This one was really rubbish. Nothing really happened. They didn't have anything at all to work out, and they were saved from danger before they were really in it. Then it ended.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
I hate the newer covers for these books :( The Secret Seven were SO much younger than the Famous Five, which made them much quicker, brainless reads - but I liked how they were young enough to actually get adults involved instead of being all nooo, we can do this ourselves!
Ugh, I am just very over the way that the Secret Seven bully poor Susie all the time. And not a word here about how she basically solved the whole mystery. They're always on about how horrible she is, when really the poor kid is just reacting to being so cruelly left out all the time.
I read the Galaxy Children's Large Print edition, ISBN 0-7540-6134-5, 115 pages.Back cover blurb: "There are strange happenings at Torling Castle. Who is lurking in the ruined tower--and why have the resident jackdaws been disturbed?"(Finished 2007-12-04 23:46EST)
Good :)
Extremely gripping storyline.
Seru. Hanya saja dibaca pada usia yang sudah terlalu tua XD
good!
AMAZING!!!There are strange happenings at Torling Castle. Who is lurking in the ruined tower - and why have the resident jackdaws been disturbed?
REread multiple times.The story is about 7kids who are having fun exploring and discovering their surrounding. A very good books for kid.
This begins our - my sonny's and mine (re initiation) - reading affair with the Enid Blyton's mystery books :)
Good Old Secret Seven
My favorite as a kid along with the famous five
A fun Secret Seven Mystery to solve!
A quick read for a rainy afternoon.
