https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/691034.The_Way_of_the_Shaman
Harner is the creator of what is called "Core Shamanism" (the ‘shamanism’ and practices of Sandra Ingerman, and Caitlín and John Matthews also fall under the Core Shamanism umbrella).
Harner, despite being an anthropologist, exploits and rapes the indigenous cultures he talks about in this book by tearing them apart, taking what pieces of a specific tradition will suit his practice/agenda/romanticism nicely and disregarding the rest.
If you really want to learn about shamanism, skip this New Age drivel and go to the history books.As Graham Harvey said: “The approaches of both Harner and Eliade are problematic in their universalizing of diverse and discrete, culturally situated shamanisms into a monolithic category to be palatable to Western audiences.” — (The Historical Dictionary of Shamanism, page 60)
Or perhaps, at their base, they're all just the same thing- various ways of experiencing the non-ordinary consciousness from which all humanity springs.I read a book by practicing shaman, James Endredy, called The Flying Witches of Veracruz back in December of 2014 and it seemed to be a total pipe dream.
Harner explains in this book why it reads like that: "The emphasis I make here on drawing a distinction between the experiences one has in (ordinary consciousness) and the (shaman consciousness)...is not a distinction that is usually noted in the conversations of shamans among themselves or even with Westerners.
When I picked this book I expected to get a bit more research on the subject, not the author's interpretation of what shamanism is to him.
I was shaking my head every time the author went and implied that shamanic procedures were better than psychoanalysis.
The author did go and say it was kind of the same procedure but not the same.
I would stick to Rorschach anyway, of course, but I guess it's way cheaper staring into some random rock instead of paying an expert to have you tested.
The book is both eminently practical and very thought-provoking,. The cross-cultural similarities between shamanic experiences seem to undeniably imply that these techniques of archaic ecstasy are enabling the practitioner to enter the racial subconscious mind.
I started to explore the subject when I began to experience small "flirts" at the edge of my own consciousness and a sense of a dimension other than the one I have always lived in, seemingly parallel to my usual experience of life.
This was a really interesting book for me, it provides the basics for shamanistic "journeying" and a lot of description of the experience of others.
It still interests me greatly as a way to process perception and to deal with life.
It seems to me that it is another paradigm through which to view my life and if only that it has value for what it can reveal.
He has a non-profit dedicated to protecting Shamanism in indigenous cultures, and spreading Shamanism throughout the Western world.
His view is that Shamanism was a once universal practice, with different and very separate cultures discovering the same things about a great spirit world that exists beyond the material world.
This is Harner's "how to" book, intended to introduce Westerners to Shamanic exploration.
His focus is very much on using Shamanism for healing purposes.
It provides historical and cultural information, as well as the details on how to conduct your own spirit journeys.
This book describes in great detail what it is like to undertake a shamanic journey, and what can be expected.
Harner begins with his own experiences as an anthropologist, describing field work he did in the late 1950's with the Jivaro Indians of the Ecuadorian Andes.
He then goes on to provide a basic definition of shamanism, describe altered states of consciousness, journeys in detail, how to obtain a power animal, how to practice shamanism, and what it is like to extract harmful intrusions.
Harner still offers workshops in shamanism.
If one is at all curious about shamanism, this is a great place to get started.
This was the first book on Shamanism that I have read that is not a fiction book. I really enjoyed it and it was an easy read. Harner gives background and history as well as techniques to begin your journey into becoming a shaman. He also says that everyone has the ability to become a shaman, just with varying degrees of skill and power. I recommend this to anyone who is interested in Shamanism, beginners or masters alike.
I did the exercises and went to the Underworld and found out that my power animal was a seagull. Then I redid the exercises and found out that my other power animal was a toad. Clearly, Shamanism will not help me at all. Recommended for fans of Wade Davis and Graham Hancock.
the road to longevity and health is an adventure that everyone on this planet has the responsibility to go through.
there is no magic pill, no magic doctor.
well actually, there is one, and he resides inside of you.
Create your own ways and methods, those that work for you.Take advantage of your inner healer.
the best part is, apart from the time and devotion you'll have to invest to wake him up, he comes free of charge!
he or she is part of you...listen to you inner voice and free him, no matter the changes you feel you have to implement.
In my quest to learn about many different types of healing, I picked up this recommended book as a starting point on the study of shamanism.
Examples of students’ first shamanic journeys, coupled with some basic exercises for beginners and background information on shamanistic practices in other parts of the world, provided an interesting and informative introduction.As healing is fundamental to shamans, I would have liked to have learned more about the lives and experiences of well-known North American healers, however only one was mentioned in any detail.
Still, there’s plenty of good information for those who are interested in learning about shamanism.
Kniha se dobře čte. Nicméně je fajn dohledat si kritiku autorova díla, které na ni vrhá dost jiné světlo. Což ale nic nemění na tom, že se to dobře čte, proto čtyři hvězdy.
I did not think this book could disappoint me, as I did not have particularly high expectations of it.
While I admire Harner's efforts to create a cross-cultural understanding of shamanic techniques, without cultural context those techniques are meaningless.
The techniques that Harner shares in this book are not equivalent to shamanic journeying, they are guided and shared visualisations.
I was also disappointed in Harner's belief that domesticated animals and plants were lacking in power.
Don't read thing book if you want to learn about shamanic practices.
Chapters two and beyond were aimed at teaching people how to become shamans and do shamanic healing.
I admit that my assessment could be wrong, and I would enjoy seeing the results of controlled tests.To the author's credit, he appears to be sincere and to have truly studied with and researched shamans.
To the author's further credit, he encourages people to make full use of modern medicine, with shamanic healing being an addition rather than a replacement.
It looks like it could be a fun, and possibly enlightening, game of psychology for a moderate-size group.
I'm reading the Third Edition of the book, so it's a bit old and outdated (1990).
There's a lot of good information, but I feel that it's a better resource for an intermediate or experienced shamanic practitioner.
It assumes that there are other practitioners to work with, which is just not a resource available to me.This book has been used as a resource for newer books (i.e. Reiki Shamanism), so there are a lot of parallels to the information presented.
108-112), which corroborate what I've learned about why music and crystals work so well in holistic healing practices.So, it's good.
Is it THE shamanism book?
I hesitate to recommend this book because Harner stepped on a lot of cultural toes to present something he calls "cultureless," something that's not even possible.
Despite that assertion, the cosmology presented in his core shamanism is very Abrahamic and most definitely culturally influenced.
For an academic understanding of shamanism, this is a good primer.
If you are seeking an experiential glimpse of shamanism or a more instructional text, this book is not it.
If you want insight into the many cultures of shamanism or the understanding of how we are all hardwired to experience awe, read the work of Karen Vogel, Roma Morris, and Robert Wallis.
I haven't been reading lately, its really taken a disappointing hit to my 'Goodreads 2014 Book Challenge' Time to suit back up and hit those books hard!Also, how do I review this book? Look, I have an interest in healing, and cross-cultural natural methods. This is about as natural as one gets. Yes, as stated before, I do believe in Shamans. I think more than Antonio Villado, this book give VERY SPECIFIC practices that one can try at home. Sadly, I did not, but like any good book, it opened my mind to new ways of thinking and healing.
Good research but sometimes crammed into too little space without context. The direct quotations from traditional shamans are the best parts. Harner attempts to distill the essence of shamanism into a kind of how-to book for modern neo-shamanists. I will not give my opinion on that . This reading was research for a work of fiction featuring a neo-shamanist character (who is not based on Harner) not for my personal use.
A scooch appropriative, but interesting. It starts to unravel as the book goes on. It's strong in the beginning, but ends as a disjointed, psychedelic mess. Sort of like The Naked Lunch, if it had started strong. More like anything Jung wrote about alchemy. Graphic and descriptive, though. The imagery is phenomenal for as long as it stays coherent.
The first couple of chapters both set up the book and hook the reader with a detailed discussion of Harner’s ayuhuasca -- and other mind / mood altering substance – experience.
It should be pointed out that not all Shaman use psychedelics and Harner describes in detail alternative approaches to achieve altered states of conscious that involve a combination of drumming and meditative practices.
In the beginning, the reader might think the book a discussion of how a powerful placebo effect is achieved, but by the latter chapters it seems one is considering how malevolent spirits can be trapped or extracted from a patient.
Interestingly, when I started on Michael Harner’s The Way of the Shaman in the preface to this edition Harner states that, “Shamanism has subtly returned to the world, even in urban cetners…” (I can easily verify this statement having encountered a store called the Urban Shaman in Vancouver, BC)Harner suggests that this modern resurgence in shamanic practice is due to many becoming disenchanted with the past age of faith.
Michael Harner is the founder of a movement called "contemporary shamanism".
It details some of his experiences as a young anthropologist among various indigenous peoples as he was introduced to the practice of shamanism.
Almost 40 years after this book was written many of the practices and illustrations seem rather amusing.
This being said, contemporary shamanism appears to have come quite some way as a practice.
The concepts of cross cultural uniformity are intriguing and the variations of consciousness have consistencies with the near death experience and new wave hallucinogen therapy literature in such a way that there is something here that is difficult to dismiss.
Szukając materiałów do pracy magisterskiej natknęłam się na tą książkę.
Nie była to totalna strata czasu - w pierwszej części książki faktycznie znalazłam podstawowe opisy szamańskich praktyk, napisane bardzo przystępnym językiem.
Druga część z jednej strony stara się być swoistym poradnikiem z cykly "Jak zostać szamanem?", z drugiej strony - nadal próbuje opisywać praktyki i doświadczenia autora czy też jego uczniów/znajomych.
Zaczyna się wtedy robić bardzo chaotycznie i bardzo często łapałam się na tym, że nie wiem o czym czytam.Ogólnie rzecz biorąc - jest to dosyć lekka pozycja.
Jeśli ktoś jest zainteresowany szamanizmem to ze względu na bibliografię i liczne odniesienia do badań, jest to całkiem-całkiem punkt wyjścia.

Really amazing book on the practice and theory of shamanism.
Harner was traditionally initiated into shamanism by a South American tradition.
He, since, has had the skill and awareness to expand the practice so it can be available to those with interest, dedication, and skill, would not otherwise have achess to this training.
A vital reference in the pursuit of this healing discipline.
Absolutely necessary in development of a knowledge base in this area.
Perhaps core shamanism is more practical, but Harner gives a range and depth that will make life much easier.
A tactical and useful first-hand deep-dive into the world of Shamanism. More of a how-to than a philosophical piece about Shamanism, Harner helps the reader to take on the practice of Shamanism on their own.While I found things a bit too hands-on at times, The Way of the Shaman peaked my interest in Shamanism and inspired me to learn and read more about the incredible thinking and healing power of Shamans.
I've been researching Shamanism for a while, but really I realise I should have just read this book earlier and I could have saved a lot of time. It's deceptively simple and the author (an anthropologist) really, really knows what he is talking about. I can understand why this is the classic in the field. I will look to read Michael Harner's follow-up book at some point.
I have to say that I was not a big fan of the book. It actually made me less interested in Shamanism. Everyone is different, so please don't judge this book based on my opinion. I have a feeling that this book just wasn't for me, but that is just me.
2nd book on shamanism so I don’t have a lot to compare it with. Just researching.
Great readFantastic introduction to the basic techniques and philosophies of his style of shamanism. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested.
