https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9517.Persepolis_2
In 1984, Marjane flees fundamentalism and the war with Iraq to begin a new life in Vienna. This review contains *spoilers*.It’s been so long since I’ve had that feeling of wanting to read a story long into the night, but Persepolis brought it back.I felt this indescribable pull from the very first page and I just knew that this book was going to hold a special place in my heart. Persepolis feel so personally important to me that I’m stunned they didn’t appear into my life until these past few da
This review contains *spoilers*.It’s been so long since I’ve had that feeling of wanting to read a story long into the night, but Persepolis brought it back.I felt this indescribable pull from the very first page and I just knew that this book was going to hold a special place in my heart.
Persepolis feel so personally important to me that I’m stunned they didn’t appear into my life until these past few days.Everything featured within; leaving, moving, coming-of-age, family relationships, motherly love— was just captured so personally well.
I loved this volume more both because I saw Marji coming of age and also because Persepolis' depiction of the struggles of growing up was raw, honest, and incredibly illuminating.
Persepolis is the Greek name for the ancient city of Parsa, located seventy miles northeast of Shiraz in present-day Iran....because I had been wondering about that.Alright, the second half of this story (#3 & #4) is less about the revolution, and more about a young woman growing up, and discovering herself along the way.
And I'm not saying the men in her country had it easy, but being a woman in such a repressed society?
I think anyone can read this and find something of themselves in Satrapi's story, because it's about finding out who you are, and then being true to yourself.Even when it's not easy.
She comes to be a part of the Western world she idealized and finds it colder, in a more subtle, acute way, than the repressive regime she escapes in the first book.
And still she dances through it, like roberto benigni in "Life is Beautiful." Another thing i wanted to mention is this is a great documentation of supportive parents that i feel should be warranted.
The liberal values and hospitality towards adolescence they exhibit are warm and i feel like the novel is based on that, that structural support of family which is the basis for her ability to grow out of both sides, her punk-european facade and the seemingly inescapable plague of fundamentalism.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWhen I read the first volume of PERSEPOLIS, people told me that I had to explore this author's other work. Luckily, I bought volumes one and two of PERSEPOLIS together, so I could immediately jump from one to the other. While the first book primarily takes place in Iran during the Islamic Revolution and then, a few years later, during the Iraqi Invasion, the second book is about Marjane's coming of age in Austria: the place her parents deci
She also writes about some of the racism she experienced, and her first feelings of shame for being Iranian because everyone saw them as "terrorists" because of the news.I really enjoyed this book, because Marjane is so straightforward about her experiences.
It was a relatable moment, because I think we have all done things as teens that we thought were humorous or fun that ended up bringing us shame later because of how they disappointed our families.I didn't cry while reading PERSEPOLIS 2, although I came close at the end of the book, when she talks about seeing her grandmother for the last time.
This is the continuing story of Marjane when her parents send her away to Austria where she has to live in a bunch of different places and doesn't understand a lot of what's going on. It's still a really sad story. I watched this dvd and my friends link will show some of the gifs from the movie. It's a sad book and movie. Anne's Review
Once in Iran, it really gets jolly and fun.
I won’t list them all and spoil it for everyone else, but REALLY!All of this bad, sad, and terrible stuff is going on, and I didn’t feel anything.
Maybe it’s because a lot of the sadness was caused by her own actions.
It didn’t feel as though the events in the book happened to the author.
Marjane turns to reading at lonely times in her life, and remarks that “one must educate oneself.” True.
One other item rang true to me: when Marjane gets to Austria, one of her first purchases was scented laundry detergent.
It's important for me to feel connected with the characters I read, even more so in an autobiography that serves as a political memoir, but the circumstances for Satrapi were filled with so much teenage stupidity and imprudence, and seemed to be so distant and faraway from the hardships and trials that the people of Iran were suffering from, leaving me far-flung from the issues as well.
In all honesty, there was just not enough meaningful moments for this to leave any real impact on me, and I find this memoir to be ironically unmemorable.
Satrapi is judgmental and hypocritical - she likes to criticize people for the vices she indulges in herself (I still remember her accusing her friend of being a shallow traitor for obsessing over a lipstick and her walkman when she herself was just as obsessed about her Nikes and audiotapes a few chapters before).
Satrapi is full of self-pity and completely lacks any kind of introspection; she never owns up to any of the bad things she has done or blames herself for her misfortunes.
It is obvious that my dislike for the narrator totally overshadowed the good parts of the book.
I borrowed both parts one and two of Persepolis from my friend Margaret.
I flew through them both in one afternoon.They are a stunningly beautiful story of a girl growing up.
I was telling a friend about it the other day, and while her art is really cool, and fairly unique (at least in the graphic-novel world), it doesn't ever make you delay turning the page so you can linger on the art.
It is all about telling the story in a compelling way, and it really does that.Its beautiful, heartbreaking, and I loved it.
From a war torn country, a young (though independent) Marjane struggles to navigate an entirely new culture without the benefit of a personal ambassador or the ability to go home to regroup before attempting again to find herself in a new country that treated her coldly.
Her story is told in a way that I really related to, despite the fact that I did not grow up in a war torn country or attempt an education overseas or return to find my home country ruled by fear of torture, death and enforced ignorance.
The comics format, the dry humor, the frankness, the child / adolescent / young woman point of view - all of them lessen a little the tragic history of Iran and its population.
i almost like this installment better than  Persepolis, but i know that's because of how amazing the first book was.
it's brilliantly written, again, and wonderfully illustrated, and it's a traditional coming of age story that is anything but traditional.
the way she is older, the way she tries to fit in, the disintegration of relationships - the author writes with a wisdom that can only come from years of reflection, and we are all the better for it.
the story doesn't lag, it goes forward, and forward, and at the end, i desperately wanted the next installment to magically appear in my hands.
books like this give me hope.
I am a woman of the 21st century living in the largest democracy of the world and criticisms aside, I believe it does manage to live up to its reputation as a nation with more or less liberal ideals.
A marriage is not a social experiment or a dry run for anything.
I am not against divorce, but I believe that should be the way out when a marriage no longer works or is irrevocably over.
A way out doesn't necessarily give us the right to view a social institution with so much disrespect.
- I don't know where that person went in Persepolis 2, for instead there was a girl who lost all of her morals and kept making horrible life decisions.
On the back cover of the book, there's a praise that says :"Every revolution needs a chronicler like SatrapiWell, if chronicling a revolution means describing how many drugs she used, how many cigarettes she smoked, how many parties she went to and how everybody else around her was horribly unfair to her and how she, and only she was the victim - then I don't want to know about that kind of revolution.
S is for SatrapiRead an autobiography.I enjoyed this volume slightly less than Persepolis: Story of a Childhood but it was still a really great and interesting read.This volume deals with Marjane right after she starts boarding school in Vienna and mostly deals with themes of identity and those awkward teenage years everyone faces no matter where they live or what they look like.
There was less about what was going on politically, socially, and religiously in Iran, and dealt more about Marjane's quest to find love, losing her virginity, finding friends who value her, and missing her home more than anything.
Second read for #getgraphic. Such a beautiful story about growth, identity, and more. I loved that we were able to walk through each struggle with Marjane and learn what she had to overcome. I definitely will be doing a full review of both volumes when I get the chance.
I loved it because it is great, and at the same time hated it because it is a reminder of my own fucking reality

Iran, Islamic Revolution and a bildungsroman - these three combined in Persepolis and gave me some unsettling and uncomfortable time.
The only difference that lies here is that your willingness to make the life of your dog better will change something.Persepolis is among one of those books that are readable but the feelings it leave you with is difficult to handle, so much so that I am questioning about the beliefs all around.
Besides, fear has always been the driving force behind all dictator's repression.Years of turning newspaper pages and Google searches failed to teach me about the roots of Islamic Revolution, but Marjane Satrupi did it in less than 350 pages.
I have this thing about reading books before I see the movies.) I'm glad I did pick this up; although it gets off to a slower start than Persepolis, it's worth the wait.
Since Marjane is an adult in this book, it's easier to see how oppressive the Islamic revolution really was, since an adult *should* have so much more agency than a child.
Marjane's feeling of being misplaced no matter where she was -- too 'traditional' for Europe, too 'progressive' for Iran -- will ring true to anyone who's ever felt like an outsider.
This is quite a bit different than the first part but is just as fascinating.
Now living in Vienna Marjane manages to convey not only teen angst but the heartache of being alone and so far away from those that love and understand her.
It's hard enough being a teen so her puberty transformation was both touching and funny.
She also has her first awakening as to her own identity.
Proudly declaring she is Iranian to a group of rude teens.Back in Iran she sees the toll the war has taken and finds that her friends seem either greatly changed, lost or damaged.
Since reading the first volume of Persepolis, I've wondered how the rest of Marjane's story would play out. This volume starts with her time in Vienna when she was just barely a teen. As an Iranian who doesn't speak German, she's an outsider. In fact, Marjane is an outsider through much of this graphic novel. I'm glad she persisted, found her way in the world, and was brave enough to tell her very vulnerable story.
The reason I preferred the first one is predominately because I enjoyed the innocence of such a young narrator; she was trying to learn and understand things in the same way I was.
Marjane's story in this second volume becomes less about understanding the war and more about discovering herself.
I really enjoyed reading about her dealing with loneliness and the shame of being safe in another country while her family struggled in war-torn Iran.
Through the illustrations and the writing style (it feels like you are being told the story by a friend) I really felt for Marjane as she grew up away from those she loved.
Incredible. Even better that volume one. I've said this before, but these books affect me very strongly because my father is Iranian and fled Iran in the 80's just like Marjane did. But I think that anyone would be moved by her story.
Rather than an eloquent presentation of a young woman struggling with her own statelessness and cultural assimilation (which I think was Satrapi's goal), this novel metamorphosed into a self-indulgent, self-pitying, mind-numbingly melodramatic sketch of Marjane's teen angst and isolation from normal social life.The book just didn't really work.Why?I guess overall I felt that any profundity concerning Marjane's temporary loss of cultural identity was overshadowed by the author's overemphasis on the kinds of stupid struggles that attend being a teenager in general.
Yet the book spends most of its time following Marjane as she lives through these standard teenage experiences and wallows in self-pity.
Loved this volume as much as the first!
It sounds bad, I know, but I really liked the way Marjane told her story.
I could see bits and pieces of the communist regime that my parents and grandmother told me about in Marjane's shock when confronted with the situation in Tehran on returning home.
The feeling of fear and hiding and living your life behind closed doors was similar to what my family has described to me over the years about the communist period.
All in all, Marjane's a great storyteller and a great artist, and I loved both Persepolis volumes!
Persepolis 2 became a must read after completing Persepolis. Marjane Satrapi didn't disappoint. I love her honesty. This book covers some tumultuous times in her life and she doesn't hold back. She exposes herself and her own flaws with enthusiasm. She doesn't make excuses. My favorite thing about the series is that I learned so much about Iran's history through her. Satrapi has turned me into an avid reader of graphic nonfiction. I can't wait to discover more.
"Freedom had a price…"***انطباع شخصي:في هذا الجزء الأحداث الجارية وإن كانت تبدو طبيعية، والجزء أقل في مستواه من الأول الذي يحكي عن الطفولة، التي تحمل بطبيعة الحال، لمسات ساحرية، لكن في هذا الجزء يظهر الإنسان، بأخطاؤه، بهواجسه، بتشتته، بضياعه، ببحثه الدؤوب عن نفسه.مرجان كانت تسرد بطريقة طبيعية، الأحداث لا تختلف كثيرًا عن نشرة أخبار، لكن هناك شيء في الداخل يظل يفعل بك دون أن تدري ما مصدره:أ- تشتت الهويّة:مرجان تحمل اللغة الفارسية، الفرنسية، الألمانية، الإنكليزية.
هل نحن نشتم ونحبّ فقط بلغتنا الأم؟ والباقي يأتي باللغات الأخرى التي تدخل في الوعي على شكل أقراص الدواء: أي أنها تدخل بحرص وتحت عناية العقل؟ بينما هذا ما لا يحدث مع اللغة الأم؟ب- العرب والفرس:العداوة تبدو متجذرة بين العرب والفرس.
Satrapin tarinat ja piirrosjälki ovat mainioita, sisältökin yleissivistävää ja ajankohtaista. Hienoa, että tällaista on.
Καλύτερα κατά τη γνώμη μου να την κρατούσαν στο Ιράν με αυτή τη συντηρητική κουλτούρα παρά να περάσει όλη αυτή τη δυστυχία.Μου κάνει εντύπωση πως σε όλο το βιβλίο η Μαργιάν επιβιώνει ουσιαστικά μόνη της από την ηλικία των δεκατεσσάρων και οι γονείς τις φαίνεται να αγνοούν σχεδόν τα πάντα, ούτε καν γνωρίζουν πόσα λεφτά έχει.
