https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31342.Vittorio_The_Vampire
I'm finished with Anne Rice after following her since the first - there's only so much angst you can take before depression sets in.
Early Anne Rice novels, the first Lestat books in particular, carried you along in wonderment at a new view of the world, but that wonder has grown stale and stagnant, and lanquid posing while waiting for the next sexual frisson does not, for me anyway, make for interesting reading.Wondering about your place in the world is all very well, but most of us grow out of it in our teens.
Too much new-gothic lounging and not enough plot.
Vittorio is the only vampire in the entirety of the Chronicles that I can think of who actually has time to struggle with the idea of what it means to become immortal, to have knowledge of your impending rebirth and to have that pain be inflicted by someone he loved, protected, trusted (except for David but we never get his perspective on things and he gets over it in like a second) and when he knows he's done for he fucking despises it.
Tiresome so far. Vittorio is a weenie.
Vittorio: The Vampire is the second novel in the New Tales of the Vampires series by the legendary Anne Rice.
Honestly, I first read this novel a few years ago, but I fell in love with this story so much that I had to read it again.
I've read some love and some hate reviews on this novel and honestly, I don't see why their would be any hate.
Yes, I loved them, but what made me beg for more vampires and horror was Vittorio.
I don't believe it will be a bad book, none of her vampire novels I've read are even close to being disappointing.
I barely managed to get through the entire book and very often I wanted to put it aside, and only my persistence kept me going.
The mixing of the vampires and angels is a bit peculiar, for some it all falls in the supernatural category, but for me is a bad mixture for this kind of book.
It shows too much about the author, the questioning about religion, good and evil, angels, and I was left with the feeling that vampires were just stuffed in the tale.
If there was a half a star I would have given it to that silly boring book! I am really sorry for this. Anne Rice used to take me to places of wonder but in this book she took me to a hell called "what the hell is this?". I wont say much but I really hated this book. I really love Anne Rice and all the vampire chronicles but this one is a failure!
Vittorio the Vampire is the second (and final) book in the series "New Tales of the Vampires" by Anne Rice.
It's different from the previous novel, Pandora.
Whereas Paganism played an important role in Pandora, Christianity is the focus in this novel.And I think that's the part of the novel that shines.
I still enjoy the vampire aspect, but I found the angels in this book to be a refreshing and a complimentary addition to the "Anne Rice" take on vampires.Like all of Rice's novels, history and art are important to the story.
It's completely different from the other vampire books.
Well the first couple chapters I was enjoying, when the character was talking about his about his life, but when his family was slaughtered, he goes out finding the Ursela, who had put the attack on his family, he finds her, is ready to take his revenge, blah blah blah, just to be made into a vampire, then falls in love with her.
OKAY to me that is just weird, you fell in love with the same person who had slaughtered your family, yeah rather hard to believe, well it is for me anyway.
The book itself was lacking in plot, and foreshadowing, probably a few other things as well.
What I have learned is that by the love a person can be saved and by the love that very same person can be doomed and brought into the world of shadows and blood.
Living forever and always remembering the sins is the greatest burden because there is no coming back.
Vittorio's rage to revenge brought him into the hands of those who destroy and kill for living.
Imagine yourself being in love with someone who saved only one life, yours.
Would you continue to hate or never stop loving?
Could not finish it… I got to the part where there were angles, and I said, self, this story sucks…
Strange and somewhat different in style than Anne Rice's usual vampire writing.
This means that it was exciting wondering what horror was going to unfold next, but the character was not full of passion and wonder and dear to my heart the way her Vampire Chronicles characters are.
But I think Anne Rice meant for it to be that way; seems she just wanted to get out of her comfort zone.My biggest problem with this story was the repetition of each of her vampires: why do they all have to come from wealthy, if not royal, backgrounds?
You're telling me none of the vampires can be Lutheran or something?
Anne Rice'in yazdığı Vittorio nihayet okundu, bitti.
300 sayfa; geliyoruz gidiyoruz ağlıyoruz.
Hala bi gıdım yol alamamışız.
Kitap bitti de şükür dedim yaw.
Anne Rice sen naptın bacım ?
Patladım okurken, olacak iş değil :-( Rönesans İtalya'sını anlatıp durmuş, öküz can Vittorio'nun ağzından.
Vittorio'da şeytan dediği Ursula'ya anında -cidden anında- nasıl kapılıyor anlamış değilim.
Senin kardeşlerinin kafası koptu gözünün önünde...
Ananı babanı tüm sülaleni gömdün bi destur de !!!
Şeytan da şeytan.
Al bak sende oldun vampir sonunda, gerzek.
Sıkıntıdan patladım okurken, yarım bırakmayı sevmem o yüzden bitirdim bu kitabı.
Romeo ve Juliet'in vampir versiyonu yazıyor ya arka kapakta alakası yok.
This one was interesting mostly for the section where the main character is held prisoner along with dozens of other humans by a coven of vampires. The coven is basically "farming" the humans; keeping them barely alive with vampire blood mixed into their food, harvesting the ones who get too weak and turning the stronger survivors into vampires themselves. It's an odd concept. The rest of the book? Convoluted and boring.
I guess this book embodies the reason that I don't read more Anne Rice books- they're kind of boring. The main character is super chatty and SUPER angsty. Angels and demons and all kinds of nonsense made it kind of a weird book. I suppose I'd like it more if I was less sarcastic and had a longer attention span.
I read this twice; not because I loved it, but because I wanted to see if my initial opinion was still there I found this one to be, well, boring. It felt like nothing happened. I had no emotional connection with Vittorio, at all. It was a disappointment. Alas.
The story spins around Vittorio as the sole survivor of his family, out for vengeance and vampire blood. Tricked and toyed with he looks like one of those Young Adult book characters, a young warrior with no more than a sword against the darkest forces pits of hell could produce. It was good in a sense that it no longer felt stamped, as Chronicles started feeling to me. And the rest of this is at [ NMR ]
Whoever knows Anne Rice, knows they can only expect one thing from her: Surprise.Despite her several books about vampires, each character is completelly unique, with different characteristics, fears and powers.Vittorio is another one of them.
Of course we know that Vittorio becomes a vampire or that wouldn't be the title of the book (at least in Brazil that's the title), but what I liked, specially, was that we didn't know WHEN it was going to happen!
Mas se eu tivesse lido naquela época, quando estava de birra, teria detestado.Vittorio vai explicar logo no comecinho, que essa é a historia dele; de como sua família inteira foi destruida, e de quando ele se tornou vampiro contra à sua vontade.Uma das coisas que eu gostei, é que mesmo sendo uma história de vampiros, estilo Anne Rice, envolvendo bastante violência e partes de corpo, também tem romance.
Some years ago I read the Mayfair Witches series and I really enjoyed it. So, why not read one of Anne Rices vampire books? Big mistake! This book was a total disappointment. Vittorio, son of a rich lord, sees his family slaughtered by a group of vampires and only escapes because a female vampire, Ursula, thinks him extremely attractive. Vittorio swears vengeance and with the help of a group of guardian angels, sets out to kill the sons of the devil. But the growing fascination he feels for Ursu
So, why not read one of Anne Rice´s vampire books?
Vittorio, son of a rich lord, sees his family slaughtered by a group of vampires and only escapes because a female vampire, Ursula, thinks him extremely attractive.
Vittorio swears vengeance and with the help of a group of guardian angels, sets out to kill the sons of the devil.
The best part of the book was the setting, which Anne Rice paints in very vivid colours – the vampire den, the monasteries, the renascence towns - and I also liked the references to Fra Filippo´s life and works.
It is my least favorite Anne Rice, because it takes place in the 17th Century.
And also includes the ignorance, violence and prejudices of the time.
Showing that she did alot of research for the story, at the end of the book, in addition to her usual Note on the Type, she includes a Selected and Annotated Bibliography.
I prefer her novels that take place in New Orleans; this takes place in Florence.
Both the type and the Bib are Italian.
She says you really have to go to both New Orleans and Florence to understand their similarities; both cities of "public spectacles, rituals, and feast days, of demonstrations of communal celebration and belief."
I thought this book was going to be like "Pandora".
It's the story of how Vittorio first became a vampire.
For starters, he is a 16 year old boy and she makes it seem like he is a knowledgeable man, fully grown.
A 16 year old who knows more about the world than those adults around him, every other sentence seemed to be a reference to Christ, God, Jesus etc., angels are everywhere and help him, he falls in love immediately with a vampire, and he has the strength of a hardened soldier, makes this book, well, ridiculous.
I found that this novel was a bit of a disappointment.
On the one hand, Vittorio is a deep character with enough angst coursing through his body he could put Edward Cullen to shame.
Vittorio is angry, lustful, depressed, and confused as he moves throughout the story, and Rice manages to capture that rather well.
However, given how slow the pace is throughout the story, trying to actually get with the plot is a struggle because of this affect.
Furthermore, I think that the novel suffers from the amount of angst Vittorio goes through, especially because of how slow the story can seem at times.
For me it is always a hit or miss with Anne Rice. This one was a miss. When she was actually writing about the actual story that was relevant I was intrigued, but the way it was written in a rampant fashion that often became sidetracked and the narrator [Vittorio] constantly had to check himself to get back on track, it was distracting and kept me from engaging as well as becoming invested in him and his story. I DNF at 60 mark or so. Too many books on my list to MAKE myself read something!
I had no idea where it was going.Vittorio is a rich son of a lord and his family is killed when his father pissed off the leader of the local vampire coven.
So Vittorio kind of falls in love with one of his attackers, a girl vampire named Ursula.
Vittorio actually manages to kill the vampire and Ursula begs for his life and for him to be transformed as well.
So the angels agree to help Vittorio kill the vampire coven, even though they did not get precise orders from God to do so.
Vittorio swears to kill all the vampires, including Ursula.
Boring....
Aagghh no le voy a poner ni una estrellita de lo pésimo que es, me decepciono, esperaba más de Anne Rice😒
Casi toda la novela trata la historia humana de Vittorio y hay muy pocas páginas que cuenten qué hizo como vampiro.Si hay algo innovador y que rompe con los esquemas de las Crónicas, es la aparición de unos seres alados...
Me ha gustado ver que existe la bondad en el reino que Rice ha creado, pero me han parecido demasiado fríos a comparación de nuestros tentadores vampiros.La novela me ha gustado, bastante, pero me ha parecido demasiado corta, me hubiera gustado leer más acerca de las aventuras de Vittorio como vampiro, aunque seguramente su maldición harían esas páginas muy tristes.Vittorio el vampiro es una novela innovadora dentro de la saga, con lugar para el sufrimiento y el romance.
No entanto o pai de Vittorio recusa-se imediatamente de lhe dar tal pessoas, o que os vampiros obviamente não gostaram, e mataram a sua família toda, excepto Vittorio, que é salvo por Ursula, uma vampiro bonita e sedutora.“Vivo” Vittorio começa a sua caça, alimentado pela vingança, e chocado pelas mortes.
Há conversas com anjos, que a partida pode não se encaixar bem, mas que resulta.Aqui o romance entre Vittorio e Ursula é algo apaixonante, mas triste e repleto de culpas, pois Vittorio não esquece que ela também ajudou a matar a sua família, mas no entanto o seu amor pro Ursulua é o que de certa forma o mantém vivo.
It hurts me to give this book a 2 star rating.I love most of Anne Rice's stories, so it sucks that this one wasn't that great.
I hate Anne Rice's tendency to bring in God/the Devil/Angels/Heaven/Hell/Christian mythology into her stories.
The reason I decided on 2 stars instead of 1 is because Anne Rice is still a beautiful writer, and because I have read and enjoyed so many of her other books.
I still have to read the Lives of the Mayfair Witches book so here's hoping she kinda eases up on the religious motifs a bit.
I don't want to say too much ruining the story, but Vittorio becomes enraptured with a vampire woman, Ursala who he falls madly in love with.
Eventually Vittorio decides he must seek out and destroy these creatures of the night, but has to come to terms with potentially having to destroy Ursala the creature he is so drawn to by "love." Angels come to Vittorio's aide about half way through the novel coming as a complete surprise to me.
Basically it's a story of good and evil and the young man coming to terms with the fact that people and life isn't always so black and white.
