https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15812814-crossed
I had high hopes for this book mostly because I did enjoy Matched.
While traveling to the Outer Provinces to find Ky, Cassia teams up with a girl named Indie.
But around 77% of the book she seemed too sneaky to me and I didn't appreciate her lying to Cassia about the Rising.
At one point she even (view spoiler)[asks Ky to travel with her to the Rising and leave Cassia!
I do think she created an interesting dynamic to the story, but I'm not entirely sure I liked her as a character.
I didn't like how Condie (view spoiler)[killed off Vick.
They both wuv poetry and art.
Cassia should wuv her Society chosen match Xander.
Xander wuvs Cassia, cos we can't be deprived wuv triangle.
Cassia confunded, does Cassia wuv Xander too??
Cassia's new friend Indie, wuvs Xander.
Indie fell in wuv with Xander after watching short video of him.
The Resistance would wuv to destroy the Society.
Society does not wuv the Resistance.
Wuv. Cassia would wuv to join Resistance.
The Enemy wuvs no-one, so they fight the Society.
Society mad, it would wuv to kill the Enemy.
Wuv. Cassia wuvs Ky but also wuvs idea of joining the Resistance.
definitely.even though i wasn't crazy about matched, i wanted to read the next installment just to see where she was going with her brand of dystopia, and with these characters.
okay, so you are going to use two narrators in this one - good move, ambitious, but this is a split-narrative between two people who have the exact same voice!
and because of my nature, i will indeed be reading the third book.
Rage. Hardcore TURKEY RAGE.(Happy Thanksgiving all my American buddies by the way)What WAS THIS? This was a book? Really? This didn’t have the components of a book.Okay...total components: Allusions, characters, exposition, characterization.There really are no words properly defining my rage. Ally Condie CANNOT tell a story. A story should draw you in with its writing and send you off on an adventre that does a good job at blowing your mind. Crossed did not do that. It refused to do that. In fa
I didn’t look at it forever, then beginning of my sophmore of college, I looked back at it, hated the fuck out of it, and started rewriting it, this time with the knowledge of how to write a series and using themes, motifs, character arcs, climax system, the works.(My baby’s growing up so nicely and at the rate I’m going, I could be sending queries by April.
We're told that they want to "increase efficiency" and stop death, but how the heck does getting rid of music and paintings do this??2.) WHO is "The Enemy" that is mentioned at least a hundred times throughout the story and what is their motivation for rising up against The Society and killing people in the Outer Provinces?
Like, badly.So basically what I'm trying to say is that, the writing wasn't bad and the characters weren't bad (even though they are pretty boring too), but pretty much everything about Crossed was incredibly vague and confusing.
That being said, I really looked forward to reading Crossed this year.Did it disappoint me?
No. But there are a few things that, I don't know, let's just get on with it:First of all, I was quite shocked when I found out that the book was written in two different points of view.
But still, I'd have to say that I really like how Ally Condie decided to add Ky's POV here.Second, I'm not really sure if it's just me, but one of the things that I really loved in Matched was how creative it was narrated, like somehow that words didn't sound like prose, but poetry.
Because I was really looking forward for Ally Condie to shed some light on the Society.
While I loved Matched, I think Condie did not keep up the original ideas, tight plot, and romantic suspense that worked in the first book.
It just made me feel that Condie doesn't respect the intelligence of her readers.I enjoyed Condie's beautiful writing in the first book, but I think she might have let the positive reviews of Matched go to her head.
I gave this two stars instead of one because I think teens might get through this book without complaint, and because it was an easy read.
I will admit that I enjoyed reading Crossed more so than I did Matched.
I liked getting into Ky’s head this time around.
And I liked getting to learn a little bit more about Ky and his history.
I love her writing, but this story just doesn’t work for me.
Crossed was slow paced, but again I was expecting that because of Matched.
I never felt like anything was happening.
That hook that draws you into the story and doesn’t let go.
As Crossed came to a close I felt rather disappointed.
I feel like I knew the formula for this series before I had even read it: book one set up the story and introduced the futuristic community that strove to make a better human race, book two plots the escape of the few who dare to question the societal hierarchy, and I am anticipating book three will concern them overcoming their plight and freeing their entire society.
This whole book was a back-and-forth plot of both Cassia and Ky making their individual escapes from society and being oh-so-close-but-oh-so-far from each other.
Hmm. 3 stars. Maybe even 2.5. Not what I was expecting.I wanted to like this book more. I really did, since the first book was amazing, but I just couldn't. There's so many questions that are still unanswered, and not much really happened in this book. It was really slow and I often got distracted during reading it. Unlike when I was reading the first book, which I automatically got sucked into.I just expected so much more for this book. Oh well...Hopefully book three will be much better.
Hey, one of those shards from the broken bubble is really close to the model's fist, so it looks like she's giving readers the finger.Lol!
Crossed is I think a little better than the first book-Matched but it's still not enough to achieve greatness.
The addition of new characters contributed in making the story a bit more interesting but the "dragging" factor is still there.
What I liked though about this story is Cassia's determination to find Ky (whom she chooses ever Xander (who still hopes to win Cassia)) In a way, the love triangle built in this sequel earned the reader's attention especially when Indie (who falls for Xander's picture but later wants Ky) enters the scenario.
But still, there seems to be something missing.
Crossed proved to be a similarly anti-climatic book for me, although this time I could moderate my pre-reading expectations with my Matched experience.
To the point where a scene of much urgency and panic is followed up by chapters where the characters sit around and read poetry.
Crossed is the story of Cassia and Ky’s journey to find each other, after their separation at the end of Matched.
Based on my feelings at the end of Crossed, Cassia could choose either one and I would feel the same way.
However, for those who enjoyed Matched more than me – I think it’s likely that Crossed will be a pleasing follow up.
Anyway, after meeting Ally Condie, who is super sweet and told me I look like Cassia, I was all sorts of thrilled to read this book.My first thoughts were, oh my gosh this is going to be so action packed after the way Matched ended!
I've discovered that Condie's writing style is different from other dystopian books I've read.
Condie may not be throwing cliff hangers after every chapter, but she knows how to craft a beautifully written novel.Crossed is told from both Ky's and Cassia's point of view.
If the point of this sequel was to provide "food for thought", someone should tell the author over-eating is bad, very very bad, as was this sequel.About half way through this novel, I wasn't sure if I would be able to finish.
I felt a certain obligation to myself to see it through, however the thought of then having to read another book after this one, just to know how it all ends, exhausted me.
It seemed as though, in some places, the story had actually been written around the author's desire to shove her own poetry in.
With Crossed, Ally Condie committed the crime of writing a slow-paced, conflict-lacking middle book in a series.
Now, I realize that Condie could not include a strong voice for either of her characters - in fact, I had a difficult time differentiating between Ky and Cassia.I found the characters themselves flat too.
Strangely out of all the characters I like Xander the best, even though he was cut out of almost the entire book and is only brought up when Cassia or Ky take the time to reflect on him.And the characters reflected a lot in Crossed.
(hide spoiler)] Now, this may just be me, as I have seen plenty of reviews where people swooned over their love, but I just did not feel that connection when I read from Cassia's POV.
(view spoiler)[I did feel at the very end, when Ky sees the burned airship that Indie got on, that it does suggest that the Rising may also be the Enemy, but this was only one of the last pages of the book!
I think ultimately in book 3, he will end up with (view spoiler)[Indie and I am not sure how I feel about that; I am hoping I will find her character more likable in book 3.
One of the best aspects of this trilogy is Ally Condie's writing style.
Her book feels like a poem; the words flow and intertwine together.
Sometimes I actually felt like I was reading a classic.
The biggest problem that readers have with this trilogy is how slow the plot is.
Dystopian books are usually based on action, twists, war, brutality.
Despite the fact that the plot is slow you are not able to stop reading.
However, although that worked great in Matched in this book I felt like something was missing.
“Love changes what is probable and makes unlikely things possible.” Cassia is in the Outer Provinces, searching for Ky no matter what. Ky is in the Outer Procinves too, he was sent there to die, like many other innocent young man too. The only difference is that Ky is determined not to die. He flees with Eli and Vick in the canyons and soon Cassia and her new companion Indie follow them. Cassia is searching for Ky and he is searching for her, but as soon as they find each other everything turns
He flees with Eli and Vick in the canyons and soon Cassia and her new companion Indie follow them.
Cassia is searching for Ky and he is searching for her, but as soon as they find each other everything turns out to be more complicated than they expect...I loved Cassia and her development in the first book.
I still like her in this book, but her personality is sometimes...a bit annoying.
In this book we have both Cassia's and Ky's POV so it is finally possible to understand him, what is much harder than expected.
I took my time reading this book and when I sat back and thought about it, I realized that it was because the writing was just so beautiful.
It felt like I was reading poetry.
Every time I learned something new about the characters or the world, I just ended up with more questions.
The word "Crossed" weaved itself beautifully in and out of every aspect of the book and I found myself analyzing it and thinking many deep thoughts.
The story leaves you hanging and eager to read the next one, but not in a huge cliff-hanger way.
As it was with Matched, the cover is simple; yet insightful: Cassia is beginning to break through...'Crossed' features dual narratives; while we keep Cassia's POV, every other chapter features Ky's.
So you get to relive their romance in little bits through his memories while getting to know in a way that would have been impossible if Crossed had only featured Cassia's POV.
Ally Condie has developed Cassia and the rest of the characters in this world very consistently; in a believable and real way.
However, if I hadn't already been invested in Cassia's story from reading Matched, I'm not sure that Crossed would have kept my interest up.
It suffers from a problem common enough in the second book of a trilogy, but more so than any other #2 in a series I've ever read.
Crossed is very transparently a bridge from Matched to the finale of the series.
One feels as though Cassia had her big moment of growth in Matched, and Crossed doesn't change her very much.
I have a feeling that when I get my hands on the final book of the trilogy, I will feel that Matched should have been two longer books.
Like lots of other people wil tell you this one is not as good as the first book.Also this book has no climax I was reading and I couldn't find one if you found a climax while reading this please leave a comment to tell me what it was.
Though I was a bit skeptical about the second book after reading the reviews it turned out to be okay and I am willing to read the next book to find out what happens to Cassie and Ky and if Cassie and ky get married.
Condie's writing is so crisp and clear that the book just flows along, and her characters continue to be vivid, real people who you root for and (even more importantly) believe in.
There are no sitcom-esque misunderstandings, but people having normal, natural conversations, keeping secrets that need to be kept, revealing secrets when they think the time is right.
The characters are so real, their dialogue is so real, and that you can fully believe that this is our own future we are seeing, frightening and strange as it is.I loved the stark cleanliness of the Society in MATCHED, and now in CROSSED we see the flipside: the wilds where the castoffs are struggling to survive.
More emotional than MATCHED, if less first-kiss romantic. Ally's voice grows more certain with every book. Like the Pilot in CROSSED, she drags a boulder through the land to make a river and the water just keeps running. I'm looking forward to the last book of the trilogy. Ally's really working on something here, and I can't wait to see where she goes with it.
Okay....I admit. I did not finish this book. I told myself I would because I feel like I steal the chance to become more exciting to the end but it was so boring and slow. And there are just so many other books I am way more excited to read.So I did not like this book. This is just my opinion and I did really like the first one so it is kind of a pity that the second didn't turn out great.
This is the kind of book that makes you lose the will to live.
A stark, frightening reminder of the darkness that mankind can possess.*I liked unearthing the past of Ky. Crossed offers Ky's view point and through his voice I gained an understanding of his history, feelings toward Cassia and all the events in his life that carved and chiseled him into the man he is today.And The Not So Much:*Normally my reviews contain an abundance of positive points.
My stomach is still growling and churning, longing for nourishment.*This book has two points of view, Cassia and Ky, while I liked seeing through Ky's eyes, the concept just does not work for me.
This book is a jewel in the series!I was hanging on the edge of this story, yet it was a gentle read--not greedy hunger, but soft hunger to reach the end.
The love story is sweet and I'm a huge fan of the appreciation of art and poetry in this story.
Myself, I've never much loved art and poetry as much as I have, say, writing and reading.
But like I mentioned for Matched, this book has deepened my curiosity for the two.
Even Matched didn't quite do that for me like this book did.
Perhaps they are my favorite book relationship ever.
I guess that's the problem when every book is broken up into trilogy sized pieces...Book #2 is just a way to pass time between the preface and the denouement...Although I must say, this middle wasn't just boring..it was boring and improbable.
(view spoiler)[If the Society was as dangerous as they were made out to be, how could four kids escape for a romp in the woods without any consequences?
Although, I must say, it is always nice to be on the run from the Society, but still be able to find your estranged beloved without any problems or conflict.
(hide spoiler)]Edit: I just thought of another way to explain this to the kids.
