https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35125.Alien
Those last two got me as close as I ever was going to get to the movie until it came out on VHS (which would be contingent on ma getting us a VCR...)I gorged on the novel in a weekend and I pawed through the picture book in the store so many times I had a pretty good visual of Alien in my head when I decided to start lying to my sixth grade classmates and claim to have seen the movie.
Which also meant I referenced "scenes" which kids who had actually seen the movie didn't remember.Naturally this all led to puzzled looks and accusations that I hadn't seen Alien at all.
Most of us know what Alien is about.
The 1979 movie is a classic, and you should watch it.I've known about the novelization for a few years now, so I said it was finally time to give it a try.
It didn't disappoint, even if the beginning was a bit rough.
Once the action starts, everything runs smoothly.As with all novelizations, we get a lot more details and nuances.
And the facehuggers are described in great detail.
A bit too great if you ask me, but that's a matter of taste.
They are the most horrifying thing in the movies, too.
After page forty or so, my interest finally shipped off.The scene where Lambert, Dallas, and Kane explore the alien vessel and find the chamber is especially eerie and great.
Creepiness was laid on thick as Kane explores the chambers; in written form that daunting climb down seemed longer in length, it’s suspense richer.After the first half, the book starts changing small things from the movie, which is fine.
The characters, even the alien, are flatter – but the action segments work and it’s a fascinating story.
I think this is the first film novelization I've ever read. The idea never appealed to me before but this was pretty damn good. It successfully captures the suspense and subtle terror of the film which I am now anxious to watch again. This Foster dude can write and I already bought his sequel, Aliens, even though I'm not a huge fan of the film version on that one. Amazon currently has it for $2 though so I figure it's worth checking out. Recommended space horror.
One of the least pretentious and most effective SF books I've ever read, and probably the best film novelization I'm aware of. Follows the Ridley Scott movie quite closely, bit gives the "truckers in space" spin of the characters much greater depth, albeit Ripley is less likeable than in the film. The first part of the story (including the planetoid landing and the alien relic exploration) is given much more space than in the movie, while the second part is more compressed. A nice page turner!
(Okay, that sounded like a beer commercial…)Part of the reason is that Foster seems to single-handedly write ALL movie novelizations, especially those in the sci-fi/fantasy/horror genre.
So, if you're going to read a novelization, more than likely, it's been written by Foster.Ridley Scott's "Alien" is, in my opinion, one of the best horror movies ever made.
The first time I saw the film was when I was probably nine or ten.
It's not great, of course, and it gives one just a taste of the creepiness and horror of the movie, but it's a decent novelization nonetheless.
No deleted scenes, no character development based upon production notes, and certainly no original input from the author.But go back to the novelizations he did in the '70s -- Star Wars, Alien, Star Trek the Animated Series and (allegedly) Star Trek: The Motion Picture: A Novel -- and you'll find something completely different.
Working with what's obviously an early draft of the script (he includes deleted scenes, like Dallas and Brett being turned into eggs) and only having access to concept art by Giger and Cobb, the result is vastly different from the finished film.
A novelsisation of the movie that scared the living daylights out of me, and that after I read this book.
I did read the book before since there was no chance in a snowballs' hell my mother was allowing me to see the actual movie in cinema.
So as a good kid I found a 2nd hand copy and read the book before I ever saw the movie, and when I did on VHS I did not tell anybody at home, my sisters being snitches and such.Alien the brilliant visual conception of GIGER and it does fall short in the book as it never can prepare you for Ridley Scotts strong visuals.
ALIEN is the first of a trilogy by Alan Dean Foster, in which he based his novelisations on the screenplays rather than the finished movies.
R. Giger came up with the look of the alien after the screenplay was finished, we're left with little to no description of the adult alien here; just a bogeyman's hand reaching down to catch its unsuspecting victims.Given that Ridley Scott's film is a widely acknowledged sci-fi/horror masterpiece, Foster has his work cut out and the result is only partially successful.
ALIEN isn't a bad book but the movie is so, so much better.
More detail and a bit more tense than the movie. The characters are more real. I enjoyed it and would recommend.
I just lost a review I'd been working on for two hours, so now I'm honked off. Conclusion: if you want to read books that don't make you sleepy, try those with a single point of view that don't have a cast of a thousand dullards.Alien is highly enjoyable for those who like such things. Five stars, if not for the mushy beginning and universal point of view. No doubt Foster could write a better book, but it wouldn't match the script and deadline conditions he was probably under. Corporations suck, art imitates life, insert Andy Rooney on Nyquil here.
With the ship repaired, the crew resume their trip back to Earth.Kane awakens seemingly unharmed, but during a meal before re-entering stasis he begins to choke and convulse until an alien creature bursts from his chest, killing him and escaping into the ship.
The remaining three crew members plan to arm the Nostromo's self-destruct mechanism and escape in the shuttle, but Parker and Lambert are killed by the Alien while gathering the necessary supplies.
She unsuccessfully attempts to abort the self-destruct, then returns to find the Alien gone and narrowly escapes in the shuttle as the Nostromo explodes.As she prepares to enter stasis, Ripley discovers that the Alien is aboard the shuttle.
Η ταινία Alien (1979), σε σκηνοθεσία Ridley Scott και με πρωταγωνίστρια την Sigourney Weaver, είναι μακράν μια από τις αγαπημένες μου ταινίες επιστημονικής φαντασίας/τρόμου.
Δεν χρειάζονται να ειπωθούν και πολλά λόγια για την ταινία, σωστά; Εδώ έχουμε να κάνουμε με την μεταφορά του σεναρίου των Dan O'Bannon και Ronald Shusett σε μυθιστόρημα, από τον αξιόλογο και πολυγραφότατο συγγραφέα επιστημονικής φαντασίας και φαντασίας, Alan Dean Foster.
Η μετάφραση του Κάκτου μου φάνηκε αρκετά καλή για τα χρόνια της, με την επιμέλεια πάντως να μπορούσε να ήταν κάπως καλύτερη.
These scenes are almost from another story - there is a mystery and danger that I never felt when watching the movie and which isn't present in the rest of the novel.
I started reading this book on a whim and I'm not annoyed that I read it - but if you've already seen the movie, there is no point in reading the book (unless you want to experience a couple scenes in the cat's point of view), and if you haven't read the book, well, the movie is awesome so watch that instead.
This thing scared the bejesus out of me!
Wholly mackerel!
I had to grip the chair I was in.
I broke into a cold sweat every time I picked this up to read it.
I could NOT do it all in one sitting ' cause it was too intense.
I like being scared, but seriously folks this was sheer terror.
Something that could adapt to any atmosphere and is undestroyable?
SHOOT me now, please?
Poke me in the neck with a wooden stick HARD, repeatedly till I die before that thing gets to me!Whew!
But I liked it!
Decent read that expands upon most of the characters, however much of the tension from the film is missing in book form. The POV system is dated and readers are pulled from character to character suddenly, often times from paragraph to paragraph. I've seen it utilized mostly in older books. It can be a touch annoying at times. I would recommend this book to fans of the Alien franchise, but not the casual sci-fi reader.
Ler Alien foi muito divertido, porque ainda não assisti o filme (ou não lembro de ter assistido esse).Os dois primeiros capítulos são bem devagar, imaginei que a leitura não fosse "render". Entretanto o livro entra em uma vibe de muito suspense e você não consegue parar de ler. A leitura flui muito bem após os dois capítulos introdutórios, os personagem são bem trabalhados, suas características bem descritas.Espero assistir o filme em breve.
It was a good complement to the movie, and a competent novelization. Hard to capture the atmosphere or intense atmosphere and creepiness of the movie, though.
I was about 13 when I first read Alien, not being allowed by my parents to see the movie as it was probably too scary for my young and fragile little mind.
As the cover didn't have the now iconic green, glowing alien egg design from the movie poster, my Mom probably didn't see this book as a movie tie-in, but instead another in the long line of benign astro-mystery, space fantasies I had been reading at the time.
I had to see the film.We had a VHS copy that my Dad taped from HBO and I watched it after school, before my Mom got home from work.
Anyone who is well acquainted with me knows how much I just love the Alien film franchise, so I made sure to include a few of its novelisations in my next book haul after hearing good things.I've seen the original Alien film countless of times and yet I still enjoyed experiencing this familiar suspenseful, sci-fi horror story in a different format.
But...I'm still going to continue reading more of these adaptions, duh!One thing I adore about the film and now its novelisation is how at the beginning there is little to no indication of who the protagonist is, or more specifically, who will make it out alive.
Re-read this novel after almost 30yrs!Read it when I was quite young (1982 or early 1983, methinks).
I read it BEFORE I watched the film as I was too young to see it even when it appeared on home video.ADF is a very clear, logical writer who incorporates a good deal of plausible science in his sci-fi (I've ONLY read his movie tie-ins).
In many ways, the novel is better than the film (which was excellent and one of my faves of all time).
In the novel, Foster notes that ,when ejected from the shuttle, the tough creature succumed to the vacuum of space and exploded.
Alien is no different.This was an enjoyable book to read.
He captures the feel of the settings beautifully, and presents the xenomorph as the horrifying monster that it is.That said, this novel was obviously transcribed off of the original drawings and script as there are differences between what he describes and what is in the movie itself.
Anyone who has read Alien will recognize the facehugger with an eye or the beheaded chicken chestburster that Foster describes instead of the classic xenomorph creatures pop culture knows and loves.
You knew the characters, you know how they reacted to things, and you instantly had a feel for what their personalities were.

At the beginning I wasn't sure if I should read a novelization. I was afraid that it would ruin my memories about the movie. But this book surprised me positively, as it remained faithful to the film, and gived a more detailed description about the characters than I expected.Unfortunately the xenomorph itself wasn't described as detailed as I expected, so this is the reason, why I took one star in my rating.
I read this when I was 13 and all I remember is that I was obsessed with the film and bought anything related to the film. I remember that this was a novelization of the director's cut - in the novel you find out what happens to Dallas, in the theatrical release you don't.
Alan Dean Foster is one of my favorite authors. In this book he took the script for the movie Alien and expounded on it. He gives flesh and blood to the characters and digs us deeper into the world. As movie novilizations go, it is a good work.
Alan Dean Foster is a great writerWow, what a great book! It is just as good as the movie! Mr. Foster is the master of movie novelizations!
Touted by some as the best movie novelization, it works as a stand alone book. Ash in particular is far more interesting in this version (no discredit meant to O'Bannon and Ian Holm).
All time-classic book. Will still be popular in 50 years time.
Really enjoyed this.
Not a lot is different but there are some aspects from the film that are left out.
What I found most interesting is how much more attention is paid to the first half of the story, pre-chestburster.
It isn't until about 60% of the way in before the alien shows up.
I thought there was much more sense of this as a crew on this ship.
The story felt more human somehow.
There seems to be a lean more towards philosophical debate as a way to get the point across as opposed to expository dumping.
