https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44796.The_Moon_and_Sixpence
At the same time, I was hoping that the book would raise and answer important questions concerning the nature of art and about what drives an artist to madness and greatness.The BookThe book's title is taken from a review of Of Human Bondage in which the novel's protagonist, Philip Carey, is described as "so busy yearning for the moon that he never saw the sixpence at his feet."I admired Maugham's narrative voice.
Accordingly there have been novels in plenty depicting the conflict of the abominable genius with the uncongenial environment, and Mr. Maugham has followed a recognised convention in this story of an imaginary artist of posthumous greatness.
Maugham's story takes a respectable man who deserts his wife after seventeen years of marriage to get fully behind a great idea - to turn himself into a famous artist, having previously had no experience.
Now, here's the thing, does Maugham convince us that Strickland is a real man and a real artist with which we can absorb his traits as part of the essential human creature who lives eternally by his work?
The Moon and Sixpence, W.
Somerset MaughamThe Moon and Sixpence is a novel by W.
Somerset Maugham first published in 1919.
It is told in episodic form by a first-person narrator, in a series of glimpses into the mind and soul of the central character Charles Strickland, a middle-aged English stockbroker, who abandons his wife and children abruptly to pursue his desire to become an artist.
Maugham’s protagonist, Charles Strickland grows indifferent to pretty much everything in his life: wife, children, luxury, polite society and focuses his passions like a laser on the creation of a vision that’s perceptible to pretty much only him.
The further he runs from society (to Tahiti – “a magical place”) and it’s distractions, the closer he comes to being able to extract his conception of “pure” beauty from the dark recesses of his mind.I’ve known people like Strickland – talented, brilliant, corrosive – people who have that weird light surrounding themselves.
The emotions common to most of us simply did not exist in him, and it was as absurd to blame him for not feeling them as for blaming the tiger because he is fierce and cruel."It was surprising to witness how the passion in Strickland seemed to remain dormant for years but eventually caused him to act like a man possessed and completely re-evaluate his life as that passion needed an outlet:"That must be the story of innumerable couples, and the pattern of life it offers has a homely grace.
تتقلب ذات اليمين وذات الشمال وهناك هاجس واحد يمسك بتﻻبيب همّتك: أن تستقيل من وظيفتك، تهجر عائلتك، وتبدأ حياة جديدة، في بلد غريبة مهما انتحب من يحبونك، ومهما كان الثمن الذي ستدفعه من فقر وجوع وتشرد.هذه الرواية مستوحاة من حياة الفنان بول جوجن -وإن كان باسم مختلف ومع الكثير من التصرف- الذي عاش حياة مثيرة للجدل، ولم يعرف العالم أعماله بشكل جيد إلا بعد أن قضى نحبه.هذا هو لقائي الثاني مع سومرست موم، والإنطباع هو ذاته.
مثل روايته الشهيرة: "عن عبودية الإنسان"، وجدت موم مولعاً بالتوغل في النفس البشرية بمبضع دوستويفكسي، لا يتوانى عن كشف ضعفها، وسوادها وكل ما يربض هناك في الجانب المظلم من القمر.
The Moon and Sixpence, W.
Somerset Maugham The Moon and Sixpence is a novel by W.
Somerset Maugham first published in 1919.
It is told in episodic form by a first-person narrator, in a series of glimpses into the mind and soul of the central character Charles Strickland, a middle-aged English stockbroker, who abandons his wife and children abruptly to pursue his desire to become an artist.
We want the world.
We want it all.
We want the moon.
It is a wonderful and extreme portrait of the innate need some have to follow their calling, or better still, the lack of choice they have to do so.I have an idea that some men are born out of their due place.
They are strangers in their birthplace,and the leafy lanes they have known from childhood or the populous streets in which they played, remain but a place of passage.
They may spend their whole lives aliens among their kindred and remain aloof among the only scenes they have ever known.
Maugham introduces us to Charles Strickland, an English stockbroker who leaves his wife and children to move to Paris to learn to paint and to realize his dream, late in life, of being an artist.
His philosophy, appearing on the surface to be hedonistic and misanthropic, is more than an esoteric isolation from society but is an all-encompassing, passionate devotion to his work.This is not a biography of Gauguin, but more of an examination of the spirit of his life, similar to how the Post-Impressionists extended Impressionism while rejecting its limitations, using symbolism and abstraction to depict its subject.For Maugham readers, art lovers and the rest of us: a good book.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI'm working my way through an omnibus edition of Maugham's work, and man, he can write. I'm torn between the impulse to swim leisurely through his prose or just gleefully cannonball into it. Unlike some writers of this time, Maugham is not particularly flowery, but he has an interesting way of presenting ideas and constructing sentences that makes you want to read over them several times, just to appreciate their ideas and form.MOON AND SIX
As it turns out, the way it's actually pronounced makes him sound like a creature from a Japanese monster movie (it rhymes with "Rodan"), which is only the first way this book surprised me.Strickland seems like he has the ideal of the moderately successful life: a wife, children, a good job with steady pay.
Ultimately, I'd say this is a tragedy, because that vision ends up consuming Strickland; he pours his entire being into his art, and like many artists, it isn't until he's dead that his work becomes first a curiosity and then something far more powerful.A lot of my friends did not enjoy this book and I can certainly see why.
Maugham’s short novel functioned like a prequel for me because, whereas Dori focuses on the artist Paul Gauguin’s later life in the South Pacific, Maugham concentrates on his similar character Charles Strickland’s attempt to make a living as a painter in Paris.The Moon and Sixpence – the unusual title comes from the TLS reviewer’s description of the protagonist in Of Human Bondage as so absorbed in reaching for the moon that he doesn’t notice the sixpence at his feet – is narrated by an unnamed author drawn into Strickland’s orbit through his wife Amy Strickland’s attendance at London literary soirées.
What I also love about Moon And Sixpence is how Maugham portrays relationships between men and women.
This is one of my favorite bits of the novel, where Strickland "proposes" to his Tahitian wife and an observer chimes in afterward:"Well, Ata, he said, "do you fancy me for a husband."She did not say anything, but just giggled."I shall beat you," he said, looking at her."How else should I know you loved me," she answered.Tiare broke off her narrative and addressed herself to me reflectively."My first husband, Captain Johnson, used to thrash me regularly.
You can never tell what a man is like till you live with him.
You cannot like Maugham's character, Strickland, nor, I think, can you truly understand him.
I can't help wondering how much Maugham felt that he was, himself, a man who had to follow his art at any cost.
Hell, we don't even want to know Strickland, but each of us is faced with his same choice--cut our own path or follow the dictates of society--and too often we make the wrong decision.

I read this right after I read the Painted Veil.
Sometimes, such as in the Painted Veil, he finds them redeemable and then in other instances trifling and slow-witted.
The artist was Machiavellian in his pursuit of what he knew not in his art, and in finding it, it both saved and damned him.
Some slow parts and i find Maugham's beginnings a bit over taxing, but like the other things I've read of him, they are thought provoking stories that slightly change your view of the world.
Strickland had abandoned his wife and two children in London, leaving his family without any means of support, if they starved he wouldn't care, nothing is really important but his destiny, set at the turn of the 20th century, Somerset Maugham, does not try to hide the fact that he is the person narrating this novel.
Finally meeting a bad Dutch painter, the humane Dirt Stroeve, who actually sells his mediocre paintings, short, plumb, gregarious, he never takes it personally when fellow artists disparage his product, but his English wife Blanche, does, she has a checkered past and this type of woman can't forgive the man who saved her, Dirt.
Beguiling Roman à clef of French painter Paul Gauguin: An Artist's Obsessive Quest for Beauty This rather short novel is Maugham's intriguing, thought-provoking study of the life of the painter Paul Gauguin (1848-1903), and partly his mockery of society's ready willingness to turn sinners into saints, as well as a sobering look at an artist's lifelong pursuit of beauty, at whatever the cost to himself or to loved ones.Gaugin was a despicable misogynist and a dreadfully negative person who left his wife and 3 kids in London in his early 40s, without a smidgen of remorse or regret and without ever contacting them again, to pursue a painter's life in Paris.
I couldn’t put it down.
Certainly not those who expect from it only decorous sentiments and normal emotions.”And this: I remember saying to him: “Look here, if everyone acted like you, the world couldn’t go on.”“That’s a damned silly thing to say.
Everyone doesn’t want to act like me.
The great majority are perfectly content to do the ordinary thing.”And once I sought to be satirical.
“You evidently don’t believe in the maxim: Act so that every one of your actions is capable of being made into a universal rule.”“I never heard it before, but it’s rotten nonsense.”“Well, it was Kant who said it.”“I don’t care; it’s rotten nonsense.”
Maugham's fictional biography of an artist whose life is based on that of Paul Gaughin, explores the nature of obsession and the creative urge. The central character, Charles Strickland, is a thoroughly unlikeable man: selfish, lacking in empathy and able to abandon his wife and children without a second thought. And yet, as unsympathetic as Maugham makes Strickland, his compulsive pursuit of beauty is understandable. This is short, powerful and accessible, written in Maugham's beautifully clear prose. Not a word is wasted, and every word is worth reading.
Told by an anonymous narrator, a writer, it is the story of the life and personality of one Charles Strickland, a bland, steady, unremarkable London stockbroker who left his career and family, moved to Paris, and became a painter whose paintings were viewed by few people, most of whom thought they were awful.
The story was apparently inspired by the life of Paul Gauguin, although any parallels between the lives off Gauguin and Strickland are loose indeed.Based up comments made by other readers, I have several suggestions to make.
Strickland is a very wealthy man, or was until he decided to give it all up to pursue his need to create art.
Strickland gives absolutely zero fucks what anyone has to say or what they may think of his actions.
We follow him through our narrator who has happened to meet Strickland at different moments throughout his life.
Our narrator is both baffled and amazed by Strickland.
But almost worse than Strickland is our narrator who seems to relish Strickland’s despicable behavior.
While the book is filled with vile behavior and horrible characters, it is somehow endearing and enjoyable.
Gran bel libro.
I primi 3-4 capitoli sono molto lenti e quasi scoraggiano il lettore, ma poi la storia decolla e seguiamo la trasformazione di Strikland da impiegato londinese a pittore nei bassifondi di Parigi e a Tahiti.
È un personaggio strano: freddo, determinato a vivere per l'arte, anaffettivo.
Non esita a travolgere quello che si frappone tra lui e il suo destino (emblematico quello che succede con Stroeve e sua moglie) fino al finale agghiacciante, ma per certi aspetti anche catartico.Bella l'idea di raccontare il periodo tahitiano attraverso la voce di tanti testimoni diversi che l'hanno incontrato in quel periodo.
Super consigliato.
In this book, Charles Strickland leaves his wife & children after 17 years of a conventional life & passionately pursues his art through starvation & being an utter prick in Paris; then goes to Tahiti where his art really blossoms since here he can beat his wife & she won’t talk back because gosh darn it, “he’s my man.” Getting regular sex with a young brown doormat-woman who you don’t have to pay attention to – very conducive to the artistic lifestyle.
It would be a mistake to read this novel as an inspiring tale of the triumph of the spirit.
Strickland is an appalling human being--but the world itself, Maugham seems to say, is a cruel, forbidding place.
The author toys with theidea that men like Charles Strickland may somehow be closer to the mad pulse of life, and cannot therefore be dismissed as mere egotists.
The moralists among us, the book suggests, are simply shrinking violets if not outright hypocrites.
It is not a very cheery conception of humanity (and arguably not an accurate one), but the questions Maugham raises are fascinating.
This book is a real page turner.
The composer loved to go for long walks among the hills and woods surrounding Vienna and often holidayed in countryside villages in the summertime.I will come to this later, as to why I am quoting an etymology of the word vocation and description of Beethoven's Pastoral Symphony by BBC.Maugham before coming to the main theme and chunk of the story prepares the readers' mind for a short time with a sort of an impressionist temper with various details about artists' life, his personal opinion on Shelley, Keats, Wordsworth, and poets of those times, and about artist's immortality, about history's devious and unpredictable path to it, and various other related subject to the book.Before I come to the plot, let me ask a question through which the theme of the book will become clear.What does it take to be a genius?or what is meant by the word genius?Before I even say a word on this, I should add a caveat.
It's about a middle-aged English stockbroker who gives up his family, job and everything and moves to Paris to live his dream of being a poverty-stricken painter.
Still not satisfied, after he has learned the basics he works his way by sea to Tahiti and goes native, living only to paint, and ultimately dying in the midst of his ultimate creation and his new family.
Yes. Irresponsible?
Yes. But you only live once.
اللقاء الثاني مع سومرست موم .. وكان لقاء رائعا الا انه لم يكن قراءة ، كان استماعا .. ويمكنني القول ان تقييمي للعمل تأثر كثيرا بجمال الاستماع للرواية التي علمت انها قد بنيت علي قصة حقيقية لرسام مشهور اعتقد ان موم صار من الادباء المفضلين لي كثيرا خاصة مع الادب المسموع اما عن الرواية ، فالريفيو الجميل الذي قدمه اخي محمد يفي ما اريد قوله وأكثرhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Prendendo spunto dalla vita di Paul Gauguin, l'autore ripercorre quella del pittore Strickland che neanche per un attimo esita a mettere in dubbio se stesso per seguire la sua vocazione, quello che sente dentro.
La vocazione di pittore, che lo porta a esclamare "Voglio dipingere" perché solo così si sente libero e felice con se stesso.
Una storia di vocazione, ma anche di coraggio, un percorso non semplice che lo porta a realizzarsi, a circondarsi di bellezza, arte, natura in quel rifugio paradisiaco che è Tahiti, l'isola delle bellezze naturali, ma anche espressione massima della sua arte amata e apprezzata ovunque.
و این دغدغه رو خیلی خوب به ذهن خواننده منتقل می کنه و به فـکـر وا می دارهروند داستان جذاب و پرکشـش هست و تحلیل شخصیت ها از جوانب مختلف خوب صورت گرفتهاگرچه شخصیتی مثل دیرک استروو و رفتار او برای من دور از ذهن و غیر قابل باور بود..بخش های گفتگوی راوی با استریکلند(نقاش) فوق العاده جذاب بودکتاب "راهی به سوی بهشت"از ماریو بارگاس یوسا هم متاثر از زندگی همین نقاش *نوشته شدهدر هدف خود یک دل بود و برای دنبال کردن آن حاضــر بود نه فقط خود را "فـــدا کند (این کار را خیلی ها می توانند بکنند) بلکه دیگران را نیز قـربانی می کرد.
Maugham creates a new story from a few of the well known facts about Paul Gauguin.
Gauguin was a stockbroker who left his wife and family to paint.
Maugham creates the fictional character Charles Strickland.
The differences are however so numerous that you cannot look at Strickland’s life and draw any conclusions about Gauguin’s motivations or thoughts.
The only person we have to follow is Strickland.Strickland’s story/biography, which constitutes the story of this book, is told by an unnamed author who knew Strickland, his wife and his acquaintances.
A choppy, disconnected and incomplete story about a man who is in some ways similar to Gauguin.
