https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1200466.Miss_Buncle_Married
DE Stevenson was a master; the author of the Miss Buncle series is as dry a wit as it comes, along with Nancy Mitford, Stella Gibbons, Angela Thirkell, MJ Farrell, EF Benson.
Any of these authors are literature's Xanax, a more modern day version of Cranford.
I parse these books out and read one every three months or so as a special treat--it's not like these authors are writing any more of them.
MIss Buncle is hilarious--about a spinster who decided to write a book because she is short of money.
If you love Jane Austen, PLEASE try these books out.
"Anybody could write a book--I've going to have a baby." And even before the pregnancy, there is an ongoing theme of Barbara having to give up writing because she's married.
Barbara really wants to write -- she keeps having to resist the urge -- she's even written most of a new book already -- and the other characters, even her husband, don't seem adamant about it.
I didn't get why that was the end, her having to give up writing and I guess sort of getting the baby as a reward for being a good womanly wife.
Normally, I would give this book 5 stars, if it wasn't for the unsurpassable brilliancy and perfection of Book #1 of the series, Miss Buncle's Book. Compared to that and to that only, this is 4 stars, which means that this story is still truly delightful and enjoyable, even though not on par with Book #1.The audiobook certainly enhanced the experience with the excellent Patricia Gallimore reading it.Highly recommended.
If you are a fan of cozy British village tales you will love the very cleverly plotted Miss Buncle's Book.
And once you've discovered Miss Buncle you won't be able to resist the sequel, Miss Buncle Married.
Not quite up to the first book, but lots of charming characters, amusing situations and deft social satire.
I loved seeing how Arthur and Barbara's relationship grows and deepens, even though each will always be to the other (and perhaps to themselves) an enduring and delightful mystery.
One of my male Goodreads friends just rated this two stars, so let me add that this is pretty lightweight, distinctly old-fashioned chick-lit.
This was as delightful as the first. And really dependent on it. Or, at least, I think my enjoyment was materially affected by being familiar with the first book. In a good way, I mean. So read the first. And then read this one; not least because you'd know what you are getting and it is very fine, indeed.
The further adventures of Mrs. Barbara Abbott (nee Buncle) as she settles into married life with her husband in a new town in a new house with new neighbors and new stories to tell.
There's this very cozy sensation of roosting to Miss Buncle Married that I both loved and envied: you can tell they have found their home and they're making it theirs, both house and neighborhood and neighbors, too, and it was just a nice feeling of homestead and community and all that rot.
Miss Buncle, now Mrs. Abbott, takes it into her head to buy a run-down house in a little village so as to get away from the constant social demands of her and her husband's friends in town.
But she hasn't sworn off observing, and once again we get a novel full of delightful, quirky characters and interesting interactions between them.I loved Mr. Abbott's nephew Sam, though his falling in love was telegraphed strongly--actually, I think that was part of the appeal, drawing him so strongly as a man about town just waiting for the right girl without knowing it.
I almost goes without saying that I loved Miss Buncle’s book – I say almost – because there are in the world those who are not aware of the wonderful books published by Persephone and so therefore may not have read Miss Buncle’s book as DE Stevenson books seem pretty hard to come by these days.
This book was a complete joy – and I am desperate to read The Two Mrs Abbotts – the third in the series but it is pretty hard to find, and expensive the cheapest on abebooks today being nearly £28.
D.E. Stevenson really knows how to create endearing characters. This is such a fun, enchanting story, that makes one wish they could live in Wandlebury and experience first hand the places and people who live there.
Perhaps not quite as good as the first book but Barbara Buncle, now Mrs. Abbott, still manages to see into the hearts of her new neighbors.
Barbara Buncle is now Barbara Abbott, living in Hamstead Heath with her beloved husband Arthur.
With their social engagements called off, Arthur gets into a groove and Barbara feels him settling into a routine she isn't comfortable with.
She falls in love with the village of Wandlebury which could appear in a scene from Dickens.
Upon her arrival, she's met by a strange solicitor who appears to have mistaken Barbara for someone else.
He tries to warn Barbara off the house but she falls in love with the place immediately.
Once the Abbotts move to Wandlebury, the story gets more interested.
I enjoyed this sequel very much although it was not as tightly plotted as Miss Buncle's Book.
Zany characters flash in and out but we see more of those we really like.Barbara Buncle Abbott reminds me of my mom in some ways, in her ability to see people's real nature, in her delight in people whatever their status in life, and in her verbal inability to express what she perceives.
Of course my mom didn't write books on the sly!
But she had the same combination of innocence and perception which makes Barbara so delightful.
In fact, I liked Miss Buncle's Book better. I wish I could give Miss Buncle Married 41/2 stars. I enjoyed it a lot but not quite as much as the first one. I'd love to be able to read the third book in the series, if I could find it reasonably priced. Or in a library.
I know it sounds trite to say so, but I must: this book is a delight! Predictable, of course, but that did not detract from my pleasure in reading it. How I wish that Barbara and Arthur Abbott were my neighbors.
4.5 Stars.
I want to blame not being able to love installment #2 in the saga of Miss Buncle (er, Mrs. Abbot) on my library only having an Adobe epub edition (no paper?
I so wanted Barbara to figure out a way to have her cake and eat it, too, and I feel like Miss Buncle would have figured out a way, with her helpmeet by her side, but we have Mrs. Abbot instead, who wouldn't.
This makes it sound like a perfectly horrible book (which it wasn't) that I hated, which I didn't.
I like the sweetness of the English country village story, and the description of the characters.
Reading with 2013-perspective eyes, though, I couldn't help feeling that even the author is more than a little patronizing toward her main character: she repeatedly describes Barbara as innocent, gauche, muddled, easily confused, and inarticulate, and the people around her respond to her in similar ways - a neighbor can't believe she's that ignorant so assumes she's being "subtle"; her own husband constantly uses his "smiling voice" when he talks to her; and don't get me started on her final "cleverest accomplishment of all" revelation at the end.
Pros: Persephone publication; the humour; the character dynamics; the continued use of 'Gadzooks!'.Cons: repetitiveness; not living up to its predecessor; Miss Buncle becoming utterly reliant on others; the awful ending.
Just a fun and charming read...I am so tickled I happened upon this series...
At the end of the delightful Miss Buncle’s Book, the unusual author marries her publisher, Mr Abbott. In Miss Buncle Married, the Abbotts confront the problems of married life together, and humorous complications ensue. I enjoyed this sequel, but was taken aback by one plot twist that seemed to ultimately reflect a rather old-fashioned viewpoint about the roles of women
These books may be charming, but there's a real truth and understanding behind them.
because this place is delightful – simply charming – and if she starts writing about our neighbours, we shall most probably have to leave Wandlebury – just as she had to leave Silverstream – in a hurry.’DE Stevenson’s great-granddaughter Fiona Bevan writes in the Persephone Afterword: ‘It is the truthful depiction of people, and the exposure of their faults, that makes Barbara’s writing dangerous.’ For, although witty and readable, DE Stevenson can be sharp and caustic, indeed occasionally verges on the cruel when she lampoons some of her characters.
This is my first D.E. Stevenson book and my first Barbara Buncle.
Miss Buncle Married is the second in a series, but I found it completely enjoyable as a stand-alone read.
Steven did such a good job of creating the complete world of Wandlebury, where Arthur and Barbara Buncle Abbott start over, that I didn't feel I was missing background information.
D.E. Stevenson created a personal and easy character in Barbara Buncle.
I thought of Austen's novel Emma throughout reading this novel and do feel many of Austen's fans will like Miss Buncle Married.
This is a charming continuation of Miss Buncle's Book, in which we find Barbara married and on the search for her and Mr. Abbot's perfect home. They find a perfect spot and settle down into town life, meeting all sorts of funny and charming people. Hilarious things begin to unfold as Barbara "helps" out in various ways. This title ends with a delightful surprise! I can't wait to read the third in this series. :)
I really enjoyed this Part 2 of Miss Buncle/Mrs. Abbott's village life. The author tells the story in a way that is quaint and sweet, along with a little mystery and some drama thrown in for good measure. All in all, it makes for a fun, light read that is very refreshing :)
Almost as good as Miss Buncle's Book.
I'm a sucker for British books set between the wars, especially ones set in picturesque villages.
Nothing much really happens in the book but that is a-ok with me.
I enjoyed reading about daily village life and about restoring a beautiful Georgian house and gardens.
I'm not picking up this book in order to be exposed to something new and exciting.
Rather, reading this serves as a tonic to the soul, a balm to the senses, a soothing way to end the day.
Immersing oneself in the life of an English village 80+ years ago is the perfect antidote to our current Idiocracy culture.
Miss Buncle is married and in a new village but she is still just as entertaining. This book was a wonderful antidote to the woes of the current political climate. How nice to be in a little English village for a while where the biggest problem is matchmaking and decorating the new house etc. rather than thinking about the many horrors of current events in the real world.
I loved the first book - but 4 hours into the audiobook of this one ... I just gave up. Not one of those huge decisions I just found that I kept finding other things to listen to and every time I went back to it fell asleep after about 10 minutes.Such a shame
A charmer!
thought this second book in the series was even more delightful than the first; feel like i have to read all the rest now.read for Jane Austen book club.
