https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7347109-the-hundred-foot-journey
After all, food and stories are two of my favorite things.
Yet it seemed written by an amateur's hand.
It's difficult to explain, but while the descriptions of Indian cuisine in the first few chapters were impressive, the Indian essence lacked authenticity.
That is, it was somehow clear that the story was written by someone non-Indian.
Halfway through the story, with the focus on Paris and French cuisine, you forget that the main character is even Indian.
Simply put, the plot lacked action.
Who would have thought that a book about an Indian chef cooking French food would lack flavor?
This book is such a joy to read.
The scenes were so rich and full of life I wanted it to be a memoir, not a work of fiction!The larger than life characters surrounding Hassan Haji - Indian street cook turned famous Parisian chef - are so well written.
The scenes describing cuisine and cooking were so vibrant it compelled me to try for the first time making curries of my own - I'm telling you, this book gets under your skin!The imagery of this whole book was so rich I am sure I will re-read it again at some point.
I highly recommend this book to foodies of all types and anyone who loves a vibrant read.
He starts out with the narrator and main character in the book (Hassan Haji) describing intricate details about his grandfather in the food business in the 1950's including his cooking, ingredients, every smell, color, etc...
Finally the story makes numerous and detailed mention of the selection, hunting, slaughtering, preparation and consumption of numerous animals in almost every chapter.
The contrived accents are unnecessary, the numerous and highly detailed references to slaughtering animals, the dismissal of his mother's death and the timeline problems all make the story less believable.
In a full-circle moment, after climbing the ladder of success to the very top, Hassan finally realized that 'pheasant food' - like his grandmother taught him to make, like the ordinary people of France prepare in their kitchens, was the language of love, family, real friends.
The movie, on the other hand, was about love and family, with the magic of food as a strong focus binding them all together.The book focus on a young talented chef who, while still mastering the art of traditional cooking, was invited to learn the more sophisticated art of a new culture and culinary world.
Instead, I mostly encountered culinary carnage - this book was like a manual for how to kill and eat anything in the animal kingdom.
The carnage that begins with the pig butchering, which I suppose was symbolic of Hassan’s lifelong obsession with French food, is almost disgustingly detailed.
More disappointing than the food, was the character of Hassan, who though he may be gifted in the kitchen, turns out to have no depth as a character.
Part of the problem is that Morais discarded Madame Mallory and Hassan’s Papa halfway through the narrative.
Lovely novel written by the novelist and journalist Richard C. Moraisdelicious read concerning food and spicesa novel about passion and persistence which lead us to what we really love and appreciate in lifeHassan the indian narrator and his family from Mumbai to Paris ,and the hundred foot Journey that he had to take between the Indian kitchen and a traditional French one, to become a well known chef with distinctive talanta journey between different cultures, traditions and cooking
I am by no means a gourmand, but I love reading about food adventures, and especially about how food unites peoples and cultures.
The strange events that lead Hassan Haji from his family owned restaurant on the Mumbai coast to the French Alps is the backdrop of this quaint novel.
(hide spoiler)] While magical realism plays a key role in foodie fiction favorites like Chocolat and Like Water for Chocolate, the plausible storyline of this novel made it more of an original little treat.
Moreover, the marriage of two completely different cultures put me in mind of how well done The Elegance of the Hedgehog was, and also why the French are so stinking cool!
Read as part of the ABN Summer Reading Challenge recommended by JoyceI remember sitting down to watch the film adaptation of this some time ago and getting distracted rather quickly and never completing the film...
But then it quickly grew tiresome and dissolved into a poorly plotted book about an Indian man who becomes a Parisian restaurateur and Michelin starred chef.
If the book had perhaps ended after Hassan's time in Lumière rather than follow his story to Paris then this would have had more heart.
And any good feeling I had about the book to that point disappeared in the mundanities of restaurant life.
A few years later, their car breaks down in the French village of Lumiere, a beautiful setting near the Alps, and they decide to stay.Hassan's bearlike, boisterous father opens a casual Indian restaurant across the street from the award-winning Le Saule Pleureur, owned by Madame Mallory.
Madame Mallory regrets her attitude, and takes Hassan on as an apprentice in her elegant French restaurant.
This is the beginning of an exciting career for Hassan who was born with an exceptional culinary gift.The story was infused with the smells and sights of both the Indian and French kitchens.
The book starts off in India and is depressing and sad.
When the family moves to London, the crass tone of the novel gets worse with intimate descriptions of foreplay and arousal and lewd behavior as well as heavy drug use.
A demented family member who should be respected in her old age is "managed" as she behaves inappropriately and then soils herself.I was hoping that the book would improve when they moved to France.
This may be a book about food and blending of cultures but it is modern, crass, depressing and poorly written.
I had no idea what sort of character arc/conclusion/goal we were still reaching for, as I think the author set a few up (the can't commit to a girl thing) and then failed to deliver in a satisfying way (his romantic development being abandoned with the move to Paris).
The third star comes about as a half-assed surprise, but felt more like a success for ol Gertie than it did for Hassan.
I felt way too much importance was placed on the death of Paul, a character we hardly know, while so little was placed on Hassan's father's death.
I had heard a lot about this book, and considering its about food and focuses on an Indian boy's journey into French cuisine, I thought it would be interesting.
Even though the title character was Indian belonging to a Muslim family, there was nothing that I felt I could relate - neither in terms of culture or food or traditions.Had this been a book on French cuisine, I probably might have different expectations but right now I am just trying to understand the point of the novel.At the same time, I do think that the movie adaption of this novel has potential.
Nije 5 samo iz razloga, jer sam želela još.
This novel is a prime example of a "Kevin White's Description of How A Five-Year-Old Writes" story. This thing happened. And then this next thing happened. And then, and then! A thing happened. Another thing happened. Things things things. I had to constantly remind myself that this was a work of fiction and not an autobiography written by someone who doesn't know how to write. A lot of tedious descriptions and little character development. I bet the movie will actually be better than the novel.
I really wanted to love this book but I just couldn't pull it off.
I built a clear picture in my mind of the narrator's father and of Madame Mallory, the quintessential French chef and the surrounds that best represent them - their respective restaurants, homes and staff/family.The narrator and intended main character (Hassan) remains underdeveloped and that is where this book doesn't succeed for me.
I have no sense of what he sounds or looks like, his narrative voice is almost monotone and I still don't know what motivates him.Strangely, I have a feeling that Helen Mirren will make this story a much better movie than it was a book - and we all know that readers rarely say that.

This book fell way short of my expectations. It started out a nice character story (though it did not grasp Indian life as I'd hoped), and it ended up a documentary of the Paris food community. The character of Mme Mallory seemed to be well thought through at the start, and then just dumped. Same with the father and the whole Indian family. This book could have been any number of great things but somehow chose not to be anything great at all when it was done. Major disappointment.
3,5 puncte
This book was an absolute feast, no pun intended. Yes, I'm a foodie, and yes, I love wonderful books with great characters and story line. Put those two things together with charming dialogue, warmth, humor, lives well lived and lessons well learned, and you have this book. I added a star to this review simply because it was such a joy to read, from start to finish.
A tragic incident prompts his family to flee to France were Hassan shows an unexpected talent and taste for haute cuisine.
The novel follows his ensuing career as a chef and the fate of his family in France.The first part of the book centers on Hassan's family, his history and the importance of food in his life.
However, after Hassan becomes a chef the thread of the story changes.
The second half of the book is mostly about the politics of the restaurant world in France.
The star system of ranking, the changes in haute cuisine, and the hierarchy among chefs.
Mr. Morais's first novel follows a familiar, even Seussian, formula, but it paints the sights, smells, and tastes of its protagonist's adventure so vividly that I needed to stop for a snack. Its prose addresses the upper crust society of Paris without falling prey to pretension, though as a foodie, I might have had a bit of an advantage in comprehension. The characters are easy to love, and that attachment left me deeply moved by the final pages. It's a quick read; you have no excuse!
Wonderful! A fabulous book! A feast for all the senses! Loved it SO much.
Madam Mallory recognizes Hassan's gift for blending favors and cooking, though it is crude and undeveloped, but she takes him under her wing and teaches him all she can.
Later, Hassan recognizes her un-admitted roll in his journey to owning his own restaurant in Paris, and rising to the pinnacle of his profession.There are a couple of interesting looking recipes at the end of the book.
This was an interesting "journey" into a couple of different cultures and the food that defines them and gives them life.
Book on CD performed by Neil ShahHassan Haji was born into a restaurant family.
Starting with his grandfather’s restaurant in Mumbai, the family has made food their passion and careers.
The village has never seen anything like the noisy extended family with their exotic Indian cuisine.
And across the street from their Maison Mumbai is the venerated Le Saule Pleureur, a Michelin 2-star establishment run by the formidable Madame Mallory.
I liked the way he and Madame Mallory slowly developed their relationship, and how he continues to grow as a chef when he moves to Paris.
To cook is to kill.
It has been a while since my taste buds have been tempted by a good foodie story but the starvation diet is officially over with the consumption of this delicious read.Hassan Haji, the second of a a family of six from Mumbai, knows from an early age that his destiny lies in the realm of food.
In this simultaneously comic and poignant tale, we trace Hasssan's culinary development from the tiffin business established by his grandparents, their roadside restaurant for servicemen to the present day prestige of the world of haute cuisine and much sought after Michelin stars.After a winding trek across Europe in a caravan of 3 old Mercedes cars, the Hajis eventually settle in the isolated French village of Lumiere.
Only recently as I've started reading more books of movies I've seen or found out how most movies are based off books have I changed my mind on this subject and in the case of 'The Hundred Foot Journey' the movie was most definitely better.What startled me the most about the book was how different the story was from the movie.
Much more disgusting and dark in some cases.It was very well written and the descriptions of food and the surroundings were very vivid and detailed but the lack of morality in the characters and the general 'dark' feeling just left me not liking it as much as I enjoyed the movie.
Overall a interesting read but as I said: the movie was better.
this novel was truly magnificent.
for some reason i've been on a food novels kick, so i expected another light book, but this one has it all.
as the book progresses, we follow hassan as he enters the cooking world himself.
the title refers to this moment after the hajis have landed in france, when hassan walks a hundred yards to their neighbor to enter the world of french cooking.
it's truly a gem - i might have to re-read this next year for the journey.i found it interested in the acknowledgments at the end that the author intended/hoped for this novel to be adapted to a film one day.
Now here is a case where the movie was waaaaayyy better than the book.
Hassan's father and the pivotal character of Madame Mallory both die before Hassan really reaches a mature understanding of his life's journey, which is unsatisfying.
At around the same time in the book, the author introduces a new character, Chef Paul Verdun, who becomes a huge part of the last third of the book.
But we don't really feel the authenticity of this relationship or why it is suddenly so much more important than the lifelong relationships to Hassan's father and first mentor, Madame Mallory.
Skip the read; watch the movie!!
I really wanted to love this book but it just wasn't possible for me.
The first seventy-five pages were promising, however after that I just stopped caring.
I read through to the end as the story became more and more cliché and the characters one dimensional.
It was if we were reading a completely different story.
I haven't yet seen the movie but I suspect he knew it was going to be adapted to film and that also greatly effected the book.
In the end my rating reflects a story that is uninteresting and that I will probably forget next week.
