https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2702242-sisters-by-a-river
I read a little about Comyns’ life and the description of how she made ends meet before she began writing endeared her to me; “Comyns generated money by breeding poodles, renovating pianos, dealing in antiques and classic cars and drawing for commercial advertisements”.
The eccentric spelling does ameliorate at times the horrors Comyns is describing and one reviewer has speculated that the writings are indicative of the wounds inflicted on the child.
The book is often bleak, but is told with the matter of factness and optimism of a child and at times is very funny (often in ways it shouldn’t be).
★★★★I'm not sure whether this should be classified as a novel, a memoir, a collection of essays, or a combination of all the above. Most likely the latter. Centering around the author's childhood on the banks of the River Avon in the early part of the 20th Century among a large, affluent yet debt-ridden family, the book is a series of short essay-like sketches that are alternately horrifying and humorous, tender and brutal. We are introduced to Barbara and her four sisters, two younger, two olde
Regardless, it works very well, capturing a child's matter-of-fact viewpoint of a sometimes dreamlike and sometimes nightmarish existence.Beatrix and I found a large branch with a lot of twigs trailing from it, we both got astride it and pretended it was a horse, then we found ourselves slowly raising from the ground, soon we were flying through the sky, we were not at all afraid, it seemed quite an ordinary thing to happen, there was our house quite tiny down below, with the silver river twisting beside it, up we went till we could only see clowds below, then we came to a little red house, it was very clean, a fairy lived there and she was pleaded to see us, her eyes were made of looking glass but she was a bit little[.
My friend Normandy gave it to me last night and I had to prevent myself from staying up til 4 in the morning to finish it.
I would especially recommend this book to my friend Sadie Stein for some reason.
Sample sentence: "Mummy had always looked and been rather vague, she had a kind of gypsoflia mind, all little bits and pieces held together by whisps, now she grew vaguer still and talked with a high floating voice, leaving her sentences half finished or with a wave of her hand she would add "and so forth" which was a favorite expression.
She had a hard time finding a publisher for that novel, but finally succeeded and it was released as Sisters by a River in 1947.As far as her writings are concerned, the only author I can think of who is somewhat comparable would be Robert Walser – they both share the unflinchingly affirmative attitude of their protagonists, who not only endure, but embrace and welcome all the misery that life throws their way.
Memoir disguised as fiction, Barbara and her 5 sisters were allowed complete freedom in a large estate in the country, right beside the River Avon.
Barbara was the middle child, and, like all her sisters, a little odd.
So I just did both, because this is the second of Comyns' books that I've read and enjoyed, and her style is just like her life: a little odd, offbeat, but with such wonderful candor that even the worst situations are taken in stride.Only recommended to readers who like something a little different.
I am a sucker for stories about large dysfunctional families, particularly if they are of the English eccentric type.
There is also that same sense of smug Victorian prosperity (the large family, the servants and governesses, the elaborate picnics and tennis parties) growing increasingly strained and shabby.
This novel seems to be entirely unedited, and is full of eccentric spellings and run-on sentences.
Usually, this would drive the English teacher in me CRAZY; but after I got used to it, it just seemed like another element of the author's colourful personality.
Not really a novel, but it certainly tells a story.
I am still loving the Barbara Comyns experience, second book in.
If you do consider it as Comyns' upbringing, you can certainly spot elements of The Vet's Daughter - the isolated, lonesome teenager, love of animals, disastrous marriage of the parents, the deaf, domestic abuse, even a reference to going to London and expecting it all to be marbled streets, and then being shocked when they saw the slums.Very early on in the 1900s, Barbara and her six siblings were growing up in what sounds like a well to do country mansion riddled with debt.
It doesn't really sound like material for an idyllic childhood and yet there is a lot of joy in this book, the sisters having their adventures and bringing themselves up.
Occaisonally he unsuccessfully tried shooting Mammy and as she was quite deaf she didn’t even notice.” Everything is treated quite matter-of-factly in an unpredictable series of vignettes – from problems with the maids’ lav to pushing granny out of the window, animals and children floating by in the spring floods, Christmas food, aunts, and meeting God in the billiard room: “The Billiardroom...was huge – rather like an awful church...and I wasn’t really surprised when one hot sunny morning I walked in there to get cool and there was God, he was over by the fishy window and just glided up to me, I knew it was God although he looked like an enormous parchment coloured bag drawn up round the neck with cord, I had been expecting to see Him for a long time but I couldn’t help being overcome and fainted.
I decided to reread this in October, as I did not remember a great deal of it.
I read it at around the same time as Our Spoons Came From Woolworths and The Vet's Daughter, and it has evidently paled in comparison somewhat.
As is often the case with unreliable narrators in fiction, some of the peripheral characters came to life more than others.
It is a mysterious and well executed tome, and the very fact that it presents an entirely different life to my own makes it all the more compelling.
Very odd. I don't quite get the point of it. It's not a true story, but some things are true. It was written for the author's children, but it's too adult for children. It's entertaining in it's weirdness, but tiring in it's lack of plot or perceivable point. So! A mash-up of many odd things. I haven't quite decided what I think of it.
A quirky read.Barbara recounts her bitter sweet childhood.Dark, chilling which shifts to humour.The seasons come and go, the water swirls down the river, the ivy grows over the Windows.Debts rise and the family home is sold dispersing the sisters among their relatives.
A very engaging memoir-style story narrated from the point of view of the middle-ish daughter of a large family growing up in a wealthy environment that abruptly comes to an end.I found that a lot of the themes (monkeys, parrots, moustaches, chest hair etc.) evident in her other books are here, which makes sense given that these seemed to be peculiarities of her family upbringing and this was her first novel (I think).What I found most interesting was the narrated style was very close to the narrated style of Spoons and The Vets Daughter and it came to me on a walk that the oddness is that all three books are apparently narrated by an adult looking back and yet the 'adult' doesn't seem to have many of a 'normal' adult's understanding of the motivation of others.
And I thought I had a bad childhood! Written with wit and humour.
Nearly everything in the book is quotable, but it's maybe better to use Comyn's own words (from a 1947 edition Sisters introduction) to encapsulate : The river is the Avon, and on its banks the five sisters are born.
The children see a dreadful snoring figure in a white nightshirt, then lot numbers appear on the furniture and the family is dispersed.Comyns is an outsider figure in Uk literature, at once very grimly realistic and then also unafraid to be absurdist, macabre even, if it gets to the psychological truth a little better.
Sisters By A River has all the ingredients of the later work, but in perfectly reasonable childhood terms.
Barbara Comyns is a Shirley Jacksonish treasure. Think Life Among The Savages. Only darker. Much darker. Sweet, twisted Sherwood Anderson-type apples.
This slight novel was a dreamily told reminiscence of a vague, haphazard, and neglectful childhood at a British country manor during the early part of the 20th century.
The book takes the form of a series of first-person vignettes that form a hazy narrative of a country childhood.
The narrator and her four sisters grow up benignly neglected by their parents, receiving perfunctory guidance and spotty education from a series of governesses.
It's a very atmospheric novel, with a sort of blurred charm, yet these qualities kept it from ever really drawing me in.
Memories of an abusive childhood told through the eyes of a child.
I would have enjoyed this book more if the childhood had had some happier moments.
I personally found the lighthearted way it was told, often with humour not comfortable when reading about domestic violence and child abuse but I see that this was the authors way of telling us this life seemed perfectly normal to the child.
I also felt the purposely mispelt words were not needed to tell us that a child was speaking.
I also felt as this was just before the war surely someone even in those days would have stepped in if things were really that bad.
I absolutely love Barbara Comyns. No one can compare. This book is one of my favorites of those of hers I've read. She is all horror and beauty, picking a wound over and over again to marvel at the beauty of the fresh blood. Read her. Read her. Read her.
Beautiful book. Very simple, tender, dreamy and endearing. Descriptions of all the little things that matter to the author and make her surroundings. You really enter this time and place with each short chapter. so lovely!
This book is an anjoyable light read and autobiographical, telling of the sort of upper middle class English upbringing which Comyns had. It's all very similar to the Mitford sisters, amusing and crazy.
Very dreamlike and strange but all the more interesting for it. It seems very reminiscent of Nancy Mitford and, to a lesser extent, Dodie Smith's I Capture the Castle. This book is like a darker, more quirky view on that world.
An incantatory daymare of a book, pitched somewhere between Bruno Schulz and Linda Manz in Days of Heaven. Potential alternate title: These Are the Children Who Squashed the Rabbits.
A wonderfully unique read. You can watch my review here - http://youtu.be/bK075QWPCkA
Another wonderful and strange book from Barbara Comyns. I'm working my way through all of her books,with delight.
Nice idea but the cutesy childlike narration and spelling mistakes is just too unconvincing. How many children can spell 'claustrophobia' before they can spell 'blossom'?
Very, very similar to "Who was changed and who was dead," which gets extra points for actually having a plot ; ) Sometimes I felt like "Sisters" was a bit too meandering, but I am the generous queen, so it still gets 5 stars.I still feel like my fave Comyns is "Our Spoons came from Woolworths" (is that bc it was the first one I'd read, so encountering her weird style for the first time made the biggest impression on me?
Barbara Comyns >>>>>>>> everything else
Barbara Comyns' Sisters by a River has this in common with J.R.R. Tolkien's The Hobbit.
When the grown-ups found me they wouldn't believe I had seen God and I fainted rather a lot after that so they said I mustn't eat crab, and I still don't and I have never seen Him any more.Comyns was writing up her childhood memories that she would later use in the novel Who Was Changed and Who Was Dead.
The spelling, and the matter of fact way of telling the events, help create an astonishing atmosphere where the craziness is almost accepted as normal by us (which it was for the family) and the humour and horror juxtapose and seep through.
Parts of this were first published in a serial form in a magazine before anyone would publish this novel.
Such a difficult book to describe and hold but I really loved it and am so glad to have read it.
[Aug 2015]This merited a re-read as we were doing it for book club, and it's still as bonkers, and charming, and scary as before.
Sisters by a River isn't really a novel with a linear narrative structure like I was expecting.
The narrative voice we hear throughout the book is from one of five sisters.
Honestly, none of the characters in this book are particularly nice people.
But weirdly, despite their cruelties, despite their unorthodox upbringings, despite their suspect behaviour, they can be quite endearing and I loved reading about their lives.
Some people may have found this too obvious, and may have preferred more subtle devices to depict childhood, but I think this really helped in warming me to the characters.
