https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7648269-empire-of-the-summer-moon
What the book does is prove that the Comanche were, without a doubt, the most powerful tribe in American history.
These lands were not fit for farming, and the plains tribes understood this.
Too often historians will shy away from the amoral acts of an Indian tribe in order to preserve the idea of a noble savage.
It is filled with facts- like the development of the Colt, the relationship between Eli Whitney and Samuel Colt, the Hays Rangers, the torture techniques of Comcanches, the destruction of the Apaches, the transformation of the Comanche from the 1600's- that will entertain and often disgust.
Only one obstacle remained, the war- like  Indian Tribes who inhabited the Great Plains.Mackenzies objective was clear.
LIke most Plains Indians the Quahadis were nomadic and led by a fierce and brilliant young Chief named Quanah.
They simply did not stand a chance against the Comanche who were equally adept at stealing their horses once they had dismounted.Meanwhile, in an effort to stop the raiding and killing,  government authorities were making treaties with the Plains Indians.
The Quahadis were the one tribe that never signed a treaty with the white man and their Chief, Quanah was never defeated in battle.
Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Indian Tribe in American History by S.C. Gwynne, first published in 2010, tells the entertaining and informative, somewhat scholarly account of the Comanche tribe.
Gwynne uses the histories of Cynthia Parker (the historic inspiration for Natalie Wood’s character in John Wayne’s The Searchers and the Mary McDonnell character Stands With a Fist in Kevin Costner’s film Dances With Wolves) and her son Quanah as a vehicle to further explore the larger, pre-historic anthropology of this bellicose tribe.
Boys presumably grow out of that; for Indians, it was an important part of their adult culture and one they accepted without challenge."Wow. Just, wow.
My favorite is his claim that the great Pueblo revolt in 1680 was "very likely" the result of the Pueblo Indians being upset that the Spanish were not doing a good enough job of protecting them from the Apaches.
I don't claim to be an expert in this area of history myself, but that sure was not the impression I got when I was at the Taos Pueblo earlier this year.
Sam Gwynne's History of the Spanish, the Texans, the Americans and the Comancheria  Sam C. Gwynne attended Princeton and Johns Hopkins Universities. He's spent most of his life as a journalist. He spent almost twenty years as a correspondent, bureau chief, and Chief Editor for twenty years. Gwynne's work has appeared in the New York Times, Harpers, California, Texas Monthly, among other publications. Gwynne was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction for Empire of the Summer Moon
Gwynne was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction for Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Indian Tribe in American History.
S.C. Gwynne does a great service in providing us with Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Indian Tribe in American History.
She married a Comanche known as Peter Nocona and gave birth to three children, one who would grow to become the principal war chief of the Comanche, Quanah Parker.
Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Indian Tribe in American History by S.C. Gwynne is full of great research and racism.
Only once did it mention how James Parker, the head man that thought it would be a great idea to build a home in the middle of Indian territory while there were many events of attacks.
The book was good at the research but too bad the facts he presented was all one sided.
If it was a history book, why not show both sides?
A chapter or two in the language and stereotypes became really disturbing.
His version of human history, summed up in two pages is just bizarre.The language, and long discredited concepts that Gwynne prattles along with are apalling."Higher civilizations", of which the Plains Indians were "three to four millennia behind".
And oh yes, the Native Americans were "premoral, pre-Christian, low-barbarian versions" of Europeans.
This book would have surely been a best seller in 1910, when the stereotypes and ignorance that Mr. Gwynne puts forth were yet to be discredited, but for it to have been published in 2010, and to have received many positive reviews and very little critisism is both disturbing and astounding.
The books and articles referenced in the end are, as far as I can tell, predominantly written by non-Natives.
He refers to Quanah's peyote "cult." A cult?It is not that I feel that this book needs to be some huge exploration of Comanche culture.
But given that it is supposed to be about Comanche history, it should offer far more insight about the actual people rather than looking at them almost exclusively through a settler's lens.
But the missing voice of the Comanche people in a book purportedly written about them became too deafening a silence, and I eventually was frustrated enough to write this review.
For a long time after Coronado’s passage through there it was “as unknown a region to Americans as unexplored regions of Africa.” Comanche lands known as the ComancheriaThe Comanche attack on the Parker fort could be seen as the opening salvo of a 40-year war between the tribe and the American nation.
This more than anything else contributed to demoralization and willingness to submit to reservation life by Comanche holdouts.Once Quanah committed to his fate of defeat, he blossomed into a properly civilized leader for his tribe and successful partner with the white victors.
This book is not about Quanah Parker, his mother, or the Comanche. It's really about How the White Man Conquered the Savage, Primitive, Warmongering Barbarians.My complaints about this book are many, but I'll try to keep it simple.Mainly, it's because a "history" written in  2010  contains things like this:There were no witnesses to this great coming together of Stone Age hunters and horses, nothing to record what happened when they met, or what there was in the soul of the Comanche that underst
Whatever it was, whatever sort of accidental brilliance, whatever the particular, subliminal bond between warrior and horse, it must have thrilled these dark-skinned pariahs from the Wind River country.Throughout the book, "Indians" are described as savage, primitive, and "low-barbarian." Oh - and Indian.I found it disingenuous of Gwynne to describe in detail the massacre of Cynthia Ann Parker's family and her capture, then acknowledge his description as "needlessly bloody." He describes most of the Comanche raids in those "needlessly bloody" details, including what seems like every rape, scalping, and disembowelment, but white men's raids on "Indian" villages (the Sand Creek Massacre being the one notable exception) get a brief tally of this many killed/this many captured.Gwynne's writing style is just annoying, filled with "What happened next was one of the greatest/worst/most...." or "No one knows why...." This isn't a story being told around a cowboy campfire.
And there was irony on the other side, too, Spain lost its territory (and much more besides) to the "human buffer" that had been thrown to the Comanche lances.The book does a great job of painting the big picture of the history of the Comanches' ascent, invasion and conquering of its desired homeland, and in setting up the coming clash with the Texans.
In the mid-1990s, the descendants and relatives of those German settlers (including at least one from Germany) met in Fredericksburg with a large group of Comanches from Oklahoma - including the tribal leader and a granddaughter and great-granddaughter of Quanah Parker.
She grew up among the Comanche, married a chief, and had several children one of whom was Quanah who became the legionary leader of the tribe in the latter years of the "Comanche War."Ever since the book Bury my Heart of Wounded Knee I've been inclined to be sympathetic with the cause of the American Indian as they resisted the white settlers taking away their land.
Some of the speeches given by the Indian Chiefs at that conference provide a melancholic, poignant, and eloquent summary of the situation of the plains indian tribes at that time in history.
Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Indian Tribe in American History looks at the situation of the Comanches in 1836, starting at the Fort Parker Massacre.
The book follows all those touched by the May 1836 massacre, the subsequent kidnapping and rescue attempts of the five of the Parker clan who were captured--Cynthia Ann Parker (9 years), her younger brother John Richard Parker, her cousin Rachel Parker Plummer (17 years) with her infant son, James Pratt Plummer, and aunt Elisabeth Kellogg.
Everything else was stuff I already learned in high school history classes that told the same story from the same whitebread perspective.Then, just as I was feeling confident that the book was almost over and I could relax again, Gwynne went and started talking (briefly) about the Native American Church which Quanah influenced.
Unless Pulitzers are just like Grammys and are based on word-of-mouth and is just a popularity contest.In the end I give this 2 stars, not because I thought it deserves 2 stars, per se, but because the wee bit of information that actually involved Quanah Parker was interesting and was the sole reason I wanted to read the book.
Part of it has to do with the relative progress of civilizations in the Americas compared with the rest of the world.
And most unbelievably: "Thus the fateful clash between settlers from the culture of Aristotle, St. Paul, Da Vinci, Luther, and Newton and aboriginal horsemen from the buffalo plains happened as though in a time warp--as though the former were looking backward thousands of years at premoral, pre-Christian, low-barbarian versions of themselves."The disgust I felt at the author's 18th century ethnographic "analysis" of the Comanche people made it impossible to do more than skim the rest of the book.
Commancheria - the millions of acres of treeless plains encompassing northern Mexico to present day Nebraska, the land of the 5 principal bands of the Commanches, a culture centuries behind the development of the eastern Indian tribes, and intertwined with the buffalo herds.
The Commanches drove out other indian tribes - Apaches clear into New Mexico, Cheyenne to the north, and chose to be at war with eastern Indians and whites alike.
This is all to say that this book does an excellent job of showing, with most excellent clarity, the dichotomy of a native people trying to live as they always had, coping (or not coping) with an unimagined influx of a completely other culture usurping their land and destroying their way of life.
That's one aspect; the other is the daunting challenge that the westward flowing Americans (the white ones) faced as they impinged upon the established native tribes' territory and way of life.
The way he writes is so engaging and it reads better than most history books I've read.There were two things that bothered me about the book.
I'm not as well read in the History of the American West as many people, but I was finding common mistakes, especially when he was talking about other tribes.What bothered me more was the fact that I felt I was reading something written by someone a hundred years ago.
With the amount of effort and research was involved I was disappointed that the author still depicted the Comanches without any depth.

But in Gwynne’s account, the plains Indians had been decimated and the remaining few interred on reservations before the wild buffalo were exterminated, albeit just before.Interestingly, Cynthia Ann Parker who had been captured by the Comanche at the age of 9 was adopted by a Comanche family and married a Comanche chief could never adapt back to life in white America when taken back by her relatives at the age of 33.
She always tried to run away to return to her hardscrabble Comanche life and nomadic home in the wilds of the plains.
Here, in language that is oddly reminiscent of how some English spoke of the Irish’s dependency on potatoes during the potato famine, Gwynne points to the horse as a detriment, preventing the Comanche from becoming farmers (which should be read as assimilating to white American culture).
He seems mostly concerned with comparing military technological and tactical differences between American settlers and whites (like a lot of popular history, Gwynne is often obsessed over military matters to the exclusion of the social, cultural, and economic).
I picked it up after Having finished " Bury my heart at wounded knee " (amazing novel) and similarly was expecting a more honest , transparent view of the Indian American wars .
Furthermore Gwynne dares to make the case that historians have " often refused even to Acknowledge that the white women had been victims of abuse ".
Sand creed Massacre , The murdering of navajo women in children in a slanted horse race, and wounded knee come to mind, however it is very convenient of Gwynne to not expand on topics of white brutality which categorized the Indian American wars .
I have read a number of books on native peoples and it’s always rewarding when they are somewhat balanced.
For example, books by Joseph Marshal III consider a history of Native Americans much more comprehensively than S.C. Gwynne does in Empire of the Summer Moon.
Reading Gwynne’s historical account leaves one with the distinct feeling that early frontiers-men and -women were innocent, helpless and harmless people who were the targets and victims of inhuman, barbaric and savage criminals.
Gwynne does not seem to even try to write dispassionately in any kind of historically accurate and unbiased manner.
This is the sort of book that rises above its subject matter, thanks to narrative pace, blending in of context and the quality of the writing.The book tells the story of the Comanche Empire which, having mastered horse warfare, defeated all enemies until the late 19th century.
The Texan and then American settlers believed in staking out private claims, while the Comanche believed in roaming free.
In the initial clashes, the Comanche way was superior.
The American side prevailed in part, because it evolved its military approach faster.Another more disquieting part of the story highlights another of the book's great strengths.
I'm not sure that comparing the fights against the Commanche in Texas to the Sioux Wars is really a topic that will bring a universal agreement as to who fought best and so on.
The description of the tactics used by the Commanche in their fights and their horsemanship are identical to accounts of the fights in the northern plains and the skills of the Lakota and Northern Cheyenne.The Sioux and Commanche share some common things as both were horse tribes, they both drove other tribes from the best hunting grounds and were brutal at times, then both used horses as a symbol of power, and they actually used relatively similar guerrilla techniques.The span of time of active conflict was apparently different with the Southern Indians being destroyed and forced onto reservations first before the Lakota their allies were later in the century.My point is that whether you dispute which fought best is at best a distraction each has it's own unique story to tell.
(The author points out that the Texans weren't much better - I'm just grateful I wasn't born then and there.) Every time he introduces a new character, he goes back in time and then ends it at their death and then jumps back to that one time in band camp and digresses to someone else and GAH!
I need my history to be linear!
It just makes the history seem more like a bunch of anecdotes and confuses the hell out of me so that I'm not certain who did what when and where.
Maybe if I was a Texan and knew my state history, this wouldn't be problem.
Easily one of the best works of narrative nonfiction I have ever read, and buttressing my strongly held belief that non-historians write the best works of history.
Gwynne’s strength here (apart from just dynamite writing that rivals the best novelists in terms of prose quality, dramatic narrative and compelling characters - all supported by first class scholarship) is his unflinching reckoning of BOTH white and Native American atrocities during this turbulent epoch of conflict.
and lets the facts stand as they are, leaning on the inherent drama of the narrative to engage the reader.It’s a magnificent tactic and one that pays off handsomely.
It’s richly deserves the praise it has received.
But if you believe there is such a thing as objective right and wrong, if you have any qualms at all about cultural relativism, then you have to have qualms about a civilization in which it is a social norm to rape and torture to death anyone who's not of your tribe.And make no mistake, the Comanche and their neighbors were doing this long before Europeans came to the New World, it's not something they were taught by the White Man. The "Noble Savage" myth, which Gwynne describes being very much alive during the 19th century, often hindered how the United States dealt with the Comanche because many Americans, including members of Congress, genuinely believed that the Indians were only warlike and vicious in response to white provocations, and that if they were dealt with fairly and peacefully, they would also be peaceful, good neighbors.Their entire history said otherwise.
As noted on the blurb on this book's cover, S.C. Gwynne has chronicled a history of the Comanches, "the most powerful Indian tribe in American history." The book contains an excellent history of how the Comanches grew from a nondescript tribe living in the Wind River country (Wyoming), became early adopters of the horse culture of the plains in the early part of the eighteenth century, and moved south, to become the dominant force among Indian and European-based civilizations in an area comprising a good part of the present states of Texas, eastern New Mexico, western Oklahoma, and parts of adjoining states.
I was expecting more insight into tribal life for the Comanche, and if you are looking for a book about the exploits of Quanah Parker, like the title suggests, you will be disappointed, as he really only shows up in the last fifth of the book.
I became interested in this book after reading ‘The Other Slavery’ by Andrés Reséndez, and learning about the Comanche dominance of the plains tribes.
Honestly, even though that book focuses on Native American enslavement, I found it a better book on the interactions between the Comanche, other tribes, and the Spanish, Mexicans, and the United States.
But it really doesn’t do what the title suggests it will.
