https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16130537-the-humans
He kills Martin then inhabits his body in order to infiltrate his life and erase all traces of his discovery, by removing all technological evidence and by killing anybody he may have told.The first part of the book has several comic moments, the alien arrives knowing nothing of human life and finds himself naked and without language on a motorway.
Matt Haig has held a magnifying glass to humans here and through the eyes of the alien Andrew we see our often irrational absurdity.As the book progresses it becomes more poignant, Martin learns more about what it means to be human, thanks partly to a dog, peanut butter and Emily Dickinson.
In this book, you're following an alien sent to stop human mathematical progress.
His mission is to kill anyone that might know about the mathematical equation but things don't go as planned...It quickly becomes more than just a funny book and I don't want to say more except...
there's a dog.
So yeah, needless to say, if you're in a sci-fi/literary fiction mood, you just need to give it a shot!PS Get the edition with the dog on it...
not the one with that ugly thing humans have in the middle of their face!
“I know that some of you reading this are convinced humans are a myth, but I am here to state that they do actually exist. For those that don’t know, a human is a real bipedal life form of midrange intelligence, living a largely deluded existence on a small waterlogged planet in a very lonely corner of the universe.” Encountering the AlienThis must be one of the most muted and personal alien invasion stories that you will come across. As the narrator admits, this is more magical realism than sc
For those that don’t know, a human is a real bipedal life form of midrange intelligence, living a largely deluded existence on a small waterlogged planet in a very lonely corner of the universe.”
As the narrator admits, this is more magical realism than science fiction in many ways.Haig displays a wise understanding of the human condition and exploits to the hilt the vantage point that he has given his narrator.
So we are given a picture of how alien the human race is at first glance, and how familiarity is the only way to reconcile with the many contradictions of the human condition, and how when you then look back, it is impossible to identify what exact elements turned you off in the beginning.
When you are rolling your eyes at the book you are reading every few pages, suspension of disbelief goes out the window.On one page the alien was a naive blank slate, the next he had some prior knowledge suddenly, the next he was using keys with no problem.
The alien main character only seemed to be naive or uninformed at the convenience of the author to make some glib observation, not to drive the plot and not in a consistent manner with the premise.With all these inconsistencies and problems, I found it hard to read this clichéd and predictable story.
We humans do weird things all the time without thinking about it, and it’s books like this one that make you realise that and make you stop to wonder why.
Matt Haig is a clever author to have written it, and I loved how he - together with his multiple observations on the human race - was able to provide us with some truths on life and how we live it that you don’t often think about in everyday life.
Δισεκατομμύρια προϋποθέσεις για ανθρώπινη ζωή σε όλες τις βαθμίδες εξέλιξης .Όποιος κατορθώνει να φθάσει ένα άλλο άστρο, αυτός βρίσκεται σε μία ανώτερη βαθμίδα εξέλιξης αφήνοντας πίσω του την γήινη ..Ένα υπεργαλαξιακό αλληγορικό παραμύθι για τη ζωή πάνω στον πλανήτη γη αλλά και άλλες εξελιγμένες μορφές ζωής που κατοικούν εκατομμύρια έτη φωτός μακριά απο το δικό μας γαλαξία.Ίσως κάποια στιγμή η ανθρώπινη ευφυΐα καταφέρει να ανακαλύψει πως θα επισκεφτεί παράλληλους υπερπολιτισμούς εξωγήινης ύπαρξης λύνοντας όλα τα (υπέρ)(μετα)φυσικά μυστήρια.
Παίρνοντας γήινη μορφή ο εισβολέας έχει σκοπό να εξαφανίσει βίαια και ριζικά αυτό το κλειδί απο τους κατοίκους της γης.
This was awesome. I chuckled so much and I barely ever do that while reading a book. "Andrew" as a character is absolutely genius. I don't really know what to say, y'all should just read it!!!
I think Matt Haig is going to be one of my new favourite authors.
The world is divided into those who have read this book and those who have not.
This book will resonate with you long after you read it.
(if not, we can't be friends.) You will be convinced the author himself is from another world, sent here to give us some wisdom, but perhaps also fearful if we can handle it.
A beautiful book that made me cry.
How many times have we all wondered, "What would an alien think if they came to Earth and experienced this?" Well, this book provides an illuminating answer.Highly recomended.
Matt Haig is now up there in my list of favourite authors.
Each time I read one of his books I am so impressed by its originality and his amazing imagination.
The Humans is told from the point of view of an alien sent to Earth to dispose of new mathematical understandings which could help the human race to make significant scientific advances.
The fun in the book is due to this alien's opinions of us, the way we look and the way we live.
Problems occur when our friendly alien finds he cannot carry out his mission in the way his superiors wish.
This book is a wonderful, funny, and insightful look at humans from an alien perspective. I thoroughly enjoyed it and highly recommend it. I appreciated it even more after reading the author's acknowledgments at the end of the book.UPDATE 01/03/18: It's been four years since I read this novel and it still remains one of my all-time favorite books. It's original, imaginative, and profound. I highly recommend it. Hope it brings you as much joy as it has brought me over the years.
Incredible. Absolutely incredible.
The reason he gets put in his body is because Andrew Martin has a made a mathematical breakthrough and the aliens have determined humans are not ready for the way this discovery would change the world.
The way this alien views humanity cracks me up because he doesn't understand anything about our people or our world, and seeing him experience humanity for the first time was so entertaining.
and it has an extremely negative and pessimistic view of the world and humanity, until the main character slowly reaches an arc when they realize how beautiful and wonderful and meaningful life on Earth can be.
I would have liked an entire book of this: just a doofy alien in human form walking around the modern world trying—and failing—to make sense of it.Wishes never come true, however, so the last half of the book ditches the humor and devolves into New Age mumbo jumbo.
Basically an alien comes to save Earth from too much knowledge, learns to appreciate humans, and abandons his old alien life to become a regular Joe Schmo.
To supplement this lack of plot, Haig tries to explore the meaning of life through our bumbling old alien narrator, whose voice becomes instantly less charming as soon as he’s humanized.Blah.
THERE IS HOPE IN HUMANITY.Told through the romantic and curious perspective of an unnamed alien, Matt Haig’s  The Humans  is an honest and mostly-optimistic view on humanity, showing that hope and greatness could be found in our imperfections as individuals and as a whole.Let this book help you rethink about life and see its beauty. Give it a moment and you would not regret it!   “Humans, as a rule, don't like mad people unless they are good at painting, and only then once they are dead. But the
is an honest and mostly-optimistic view on humanity, showing that hope and greatness could be found in our imperfections as individuals and as a whole.Let this book help you rethink about life and see its beauty.
This is the type of book I’d love to call “the one with the fun and the feels.” Reading it was like watching the sky all day to see it change its colors from sunset to dawn.There were some moments wherein I almost panicked because there were math equations in the book, and I am never good in math, unless we’re talking about how much money I would need to survive.
There is a wonderful book trailer featuring some of the narrator's key observations of life and advice for humans, as read by fans.
You can view the trailer here: http://youtu.be/zX8V2OFHHbQMy favourites?"In fiction there is no genre, there is only book.""Irony is fine, but feeling is better." (I think I paraphrased that...)Fans of quirky books such as Mr Penumbra's 24 Hour Bookstore, The Rosie Project and the 100 Year Old Man Who Climbed Out the Window and Disappeared will love this book, as will teenagers, book lovers,dog lovers, philosophers, romantics, mathematicians, and anyone looking for a shot of witty inspiration.
I decided not to look too deep into the technicalities and to focus on the deeper message and as a result found I enjoyed this story.
He discovers, learns, loves, makes mistakes, and finds his way in this complicated world.
I liked the dry humor and the advice section of the book detailing some of his lessons learned.
I liked that everything didn't line up for his success as a human because it made the story more relatable.
I would have loved an epilogue or even a clear resolution to the dilemma he faced but I understand why it was done the way it was.
Safety: There is cheating in this story.
Hope is the thing with feathersThat perches in the soul,And sings the tune without the words,And never stops at all.~ Emily Dickinson B-e-a-u-t-i-f-u-l!  This is a wonderfully written and well narrated book. A book for everyone, especially the humans."For those who don't know, a human is a real bipedal lifeform of mid-range intelligence, living a largely deluded existence on a small water-logged planet in a very lonely corner of the universe."This book is all about why are Humans, so human... It
A book for everyone, especially the humans."For those who don't know, a human is a real bipedal lifeform of mid-range intelligence, living a largely deluded existence on a small water-logged planet in a very lonely corner of the universe."This book is all about why are Humans, so human...
It is about how humans change their naturally inherited flaws into strengths..It's about Love and how humans consider Love to be a way to live forever in a single moment!Sometimes the hardest thing to do is just to stay human.~ Michael Franti"Now, consider this.A human life is on average 80 Earth years or around 30,000 Earth days.
A funny, clever, and unusual book, The Humans, explores what would happen if an alien came to earth and inhabited the body of an earthling and reacted to our life styles and rules for society.
The alien comes to love the puny, delicate, mortal human wife and son he has inherited by killing their husband and father and taking his place.
Some of the best passages are between him and the dog, Newton.
He, in turn comes to love and appreciate Newton.
Needless to say, his fellow aliens are not happy with his failure to carry out his mission.
I don't mind taking a gamble on Audible Daily Deals - they're usually only a couple of quid and if they don't work out then it's less than the cost of a cup of coffee wasted.
I usually know quite early doors if a book is going to excite me, bore me or simply get on my nerves.
I'm sure this is a great book for the right person: its ratings are high everywhere, so it's obviously floated a few boats.
The good news is that cup of coffee I sacrificed to make the purchase reduced my daily caffiene intake from life threatening down to just highly dangerous ;)
Unfortunately that lead to a whole lot of disappointment on my part as this story turned out to be a distinctly average read.
He was suitably alien and I did enjoy how he grew to appreciate that humans had some good aspects as well as the negative ones.
The downside is that I could not care less about his romance with his wife or the rest of the humans we met along the way.The other disappointment was that the story had a slightly pretentious feel to it.
He was a very English narrator and fit the very English feel of the story.
“Advice for a human.81.
You can't find happiness looking for the meaning of life.
Meaning is only the third most important thing.
It comes after loving and being.82.
If you think something is ugly, look harder.
Ugliness is just a failure of seeing.”I liked this book.
it was funny and smart.
At some point it got on my nerves but overall I enjoyed it.It seemed to me that the writer wants to show us earth and life on it are beautiful no matter what.“Advice for a human86.
To like something is to insult it.
Love it or hate it.
And love.”

Brilliant! An alien's perception of the human race. His view is initially very cynical, but as the alien becomes more familiar with humans his perception changes as he becomes more human himself. Eventually the once emotionless alien sheds a real human tear and learns to love. He says: "I felt blue with sadness, red with rage and green with envy. I felt the entire human rainbow."This book is an amalgam of mathematics, science fiction, philosophy, poetry and is also very, very funny.
Olur öyle.Kendimi bildim bileli –ki bu çok eskiye uzanmaz– hep şunu düşündüm: Gündelik yaşayışımızdaki tonla şey aslında ne kadar da anlamsız.
İşte bu kitap da beni tam buradan, can evimden vurdu.Temelde, bir görev için Dünya’ya gönderilen bir uzaylının gözlemlerini okuyoruz.
(Kitabın bu denli doğru bir isme sahip olması da hoş tabii.) Geldiğimiz çağda hümanizme inanmak giderek zorlaşsa da bu kitap kendisine bunu dert ediniyor ve başarıyor da.
Sonrasında biraz farklılaşıyor ama baştaki benzerlik de “bunu seven bunu da sevdi” kategorisinden çok daha yakın bir benzerlik içeriyor.
Burada olduğu gibi.Çok sevdiğim, çok iyi yazılmış, iyi çevrilmiş ve iyi editlenmiş; çok eğlenceli bir kitap.”İnsan olmanın olayı aşk aslında, ama bunu anlamıyorlar.
I loved this book from the very first page to the very last.
It made me laugh out loud, cringe with embarrassment, ache with loneliness, radiate with love.It made me want to go and watch my children sleeping, while I still can.It made me want to hold my loved ones close and smile at strangers as if we shared this simple secret - That everything we are and everything we do has it's own fascination.
That however broken we think we are, we are still beautiful; Messy, but beautiful.And it did so without ever once sounding worthy, overly serious or flippant.
Life gets busy, and now that I have joined modern society and finally own an iPhone, my life seems to be more distracted and less time to read.So, back to books!
So, when looking for a book as such I was encouraged to read "The Humans" by Matt Haig.
I'm sorry, but the first half alone is so ridiculous, so forced, and the author is trying SOOOOO hard to be both witty and intelligent that it made me want to claw my eyes out and read a Danielle Steele book in braille instead.
The only thing worse than trying to hard to be both clever and witty is failing.Sorry Matt Haig.
Anyone who has read my blogpost “How a book speaks to you” (see www.lizlovesbooks.com ) will know that this book is now a very big part of my life.
And despite his efforts to continue on his mission these pesky human people with their quirks and their feelings and their stuff just keep getting in the way…and so begins a journey of discovery.
Witty and insightful and brilliantly written in a way that makes it easy to love, Matt Haig has given the world something.
And if you know me in real life you understand what a gift that is.
Así se desenvuelve una historia sobre el descubrimiento y posterior exploración de nuestra naturaleza a través de la mirada renuente de un alien que tiene un montón de ideas acerca de nosotros pero que nunca ha estado realmente en contacto con uno de nosotros.Los problemas empiezan cuando tocamos el tema de la escritura.
Me pareció en exceso básica y un tanto petulante, hasta el punto de —casi— volverse fastidiosa, y esto lo digo en el sentido de que parecía que estuviese leyendo un libro de autoayuda más que una historia propiamente dicha.
This wonderful, entertaining story looks at humans from a new angle--the perspective of totally alien character.
So, he is killed and replaced by an alien, who must hunt down and kill all people who know of the proof.
But, the alien is a quick learner, and gradually learns to love what he sees.
He continually asks himself and others, what it is like to be human, and as he learns about belonging and love, he eventually wants to become one.This is an entertaining book, with a story told with humor, wit, philosophy and poetry.
