https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22915460-the-glassblower

I'll admit that I've never heard of German Petra Durst-Benning before, and was expecting a typical historical novel: a lot of history with a daub of romance.
But what I got with The Glassblower was a great story that I couldn't put down!
That might be because I'm an American woman and all things are possible for each one of us.
The stories of Ruth, Marie, and Johanna Steinmann are both compelling and urgent as the reader wants to know how "the women who rules the roost" will survive when their father, Joost, dies unexpectedly.
After all Herr Heimer is the wealthiest glassblower in Lauscha.
And the writing is very, very simple, nearly juvenile.
It's more the writing I'd expect from a first-time author, not a bestseller.
It's like middle-grade writing.But what I hated most of all was the heroines--mainly two of them: Johanna and Ruth.
Only the hint of him making glass animals instead--pointless but with a profit--gets her attention even remotely.I wanted to slap her to the moon.Ruth is no better.
Dumb, dumb, dumb.And then every now and then we go to this weird shop keeper who is always trying to eat his lips.
Weird.
Weird.
Weird.There are too many books out there much better than this one.
Apart from the joy of reading it, the book leaves a comforting feeling that everyone can be happy in his own way, if one is brave enough to set one’s priorities right.In the book author Petra Durst-Benning tells the story of the three young Steinmann sisters who live in the glassblowing village of Lauscha in Germany at the end of the nineteenth century and early years of the twentieth century.
As you leaf through the pages, you will laugh and cry with them, and at times feel the need to reprove them.Beautifully written and well-researched, Petra Durst-Benning painted a sweeping portrait of the fascinating characters that populated the book as well as the profession which they are involved in.
DNF~ 60%I can't stand to waste another second on this book when I have so many others to read that I will actually enjoy. Unlikable characters can make an interesting and good book but that depends on what makes them unlikable. The girls in this story are just stupid and selfish and Peter was borderline pathetic. Plus I have figured out that glassblowing holds no interest for me whatsoever. So I was bouncing back and forth between characters I couldn't stand and a subject that bored me. Not to mention the audiobook narrator was total crap. Sorry.
This book reminded me of one of my all-time favorite novels, Fall on Your Knees by Ann-Marie MacDonald, in that it is another historical fiction novel that centers primary on three very close, yet very different, sisters.
Originally published in German several years ago, this novel is part of a trilogy that is in the process of being translated to the English language for the first time.
Joost Steinmann is a glassblower who lives in a small German village with his three daughters, his wife having passed away some years before.
I would highly recommend this novel to any one who enjoys historical fiction, or has any interest in German culture.
I understand that the author was attempting to set some sort of context with the time period but making your lead characters so painstakingly annoying is no way to try and win over a reader.In fact, for a book that stresses the fact that their father’s death was so traumatic and important to them, the girls sure move on pretty quickly and not only that.
It doesn’t live up to any of the things the summary makes it out to be.
It’s a very floppy, wordy attempt at a historical fiction novel that barely sets its time period properly.
This was another of the free books provided with my Amazon Prime membership, and this one was a winner. Well written, excellent character development, interesting plot that gradually draws the reader in until fully hooked, and wanting more. Lo and behold, it is a trilogy - so there will be more! The main characters are women who take on an nontraditional role, which adds to the appeal of the novel. I will definitely read the second book of the trilogy.
It was interesting getting to know the three main characters, sisters who were forced to make their own way after the death of their father in late 1890s Germany.
Things really started to go downhill rapidly toward the end.
The writing at that the end of the book reminded me of the sappy crap my friends and I wrote when we were pre-teens.
Ultimately this is one of those books that start out well enough but falls flat and gets wrapped up at the end with a nice little bow.
I understand that this book is the first in a series of three.
The Glassblower by Petra Durst-Benning is the first book in a trilogy.
The book is a wonderful story of determination and survival in a harsh world in the late 1900s.
It is an historical fiction novel that highlights the glass industry (nonfiction) and the Steinmann sisters: Joanna, Ruth and Marie (fiction).Historically glass bulbs for Christmas Trees were first invented in Lauscha, Germany.
The women who worked for other families made very little money and struggled to survive.
This book told such a great story that I found myself wanted to read more and more.
The Glassblower by Petra Durst-Benning was a great read.
I only got a fraction of the way through the book before I gave up, I don't want to waste my time on characters as useless as these three women.stuff like...(view spoiler)[1) "who will look after us?" - shortly after their dad died2) thinking that marrying someone is the answer to life's problems3) "make sure that whoever he is, he has a brother, and then that's Marie taken care of" - ewww...
- make up your mind girls, you going to be desperate and go out on the street looking for a groom, or are you going to be fussy about the guys last name?5) "I want to wear pretty things" - because you can only do that if you're married apparently (hide spoiler)]...
I was intrigued at the description given; the story of three sisters in late-19th century Germany, who must make a life for themselves after their father's death in a male-dominated society and industry.
I found the storyline to be engaging, the characters to have growth and depth, and best of all-- I am eager for the release of the next book in the trilogy!
As each sister experienced her own tragedies and struggles, I empathized with her and wanted everything to work out.
As this is only the first book in the trilogy, it remains to be seen if things will indeed "work out," but so far, I love the direction this story is heading!
This may be due to the fact that it's a translation, but the language is very modern and it's difficult to reconcile the time period with the words and actions of the characters.
There are also large gaps of time or action that we know what happened, but we don't get to see any of it.
Like action that takes place off stage in a play.
At least in a play you have the opportunity to create some tension or comedy with sound or the reactions of those onstage, but in this book those chunks of important plot are just missing.
3 de 5 estrellas ⭐⭐⭐ (Me ha gustado)No tenía ni idea de el lugar ni del proceso de la fabricación del vidrio y este libro me ha permitido apreciar objetos que tenemos en casa y de los que nunca nos preguntamos nada o no apreciamos lo suficiente, claro que, el libro está situado en una época donde todo se hacía a mano y con suma paciencia.Tres mujeres, tres hermanas con una personalidad distinta toman diferentes posturas ante la vida tras la repentina muerte de su padre. Crecieron entre algodones
3 de 5 estrellas ⭐️⭐️⭐️ (Me ha gustado)No tenía ni idea de el lugar ni del proceso de la fabricación del vidrio y este libro me ha permitido apreciar objetos que tenemos en casa y de los que nunca nos preguntamos nada o no apreciamos lo suficiente, claro que, el libro está situado en una época donde todo se hacía a mano y con suma paciencia.Tres mujeres, tres hermanas con una personalidad distinta toman diferentes posturas ante la vida tras la repentina muerte de su padre.
I can't believe I finished it...there was just enough plot to get through to the end.
It is definitely misclassified as historical fiction.
This book is a romance novel and should be classified as such.
I am not sure if it is the writing or the translation, but the author adds much too much "modern thought" to her annoying heroines.
Using such terms as her husbands "buddies" and referring to her pregnant figure as her "bump".
The plot lines jump and shift and characters seem to be left hanging or enter the story randomly.
I like fun trilogy fiction, but this isn't worth finishing the series.
I really wanted to like this book and looked forward to reading it based on all the good reviews and hype. Boy, was I sadly disappointed! It read like "fluff". It was so tedious and long winded, boring. I can't tell you how many times I just wanted to put it down and start a new book which would probably be better. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
This book is very confused on what genre it wants to be. I enjoyed the historical glassblowing aspects but I felt there were random "bodice ripping" and even S&M scenes added in where not needed. A lot of it was distracting, often annoying, and hard to believe.
Three sisters in Lauscha Germany find themselves in dire straits after their father passes away.
Each sister is spotlighted with their equally strong but very different personalities as they struggle to survive and thrive.
The author chose to write in plenty of sibling rivalry which I found to be quite realistic.
This is not really true historical fiction, but there are interesting historical tidbits to be found.
It is written as a trilogy, so it will be interesting to see the direction the author takes .I'll at least commit to reading installation number two.
3  StarsThe Glassblower is the first book in The Glassblower Trilogy by Petra Durst-Benning.The Glassblower is the story of three sisters Johanna, Ruth and Marie, who grew up protected by their loving father, Joost Steinmann. When Joost suddenly passes away, the three sisters find themselves without a job and without the protection of a man. They worked for their father in his glassblowing business and now they don’t know what to do with their lives. They can’t follow their father’s steps becaus
3 ½ StarsThe Glassblower is the first book in The Glassblower Trilogy by Petra Durst-Benning.The Glassblower is the story of three sisters Johanna, Ruth and Marie, who grew up protected by their loving father, Joost Steinmann.
They can’t follow their father’s steps because glassblowing is a profession exclusively for men.Forced to look after themselves they realized the good life they had is far behind and to succeed they will have to work hard and fight for what they want.The three sisters are very different from each other.
I read through it rather quickly, feeling compelled to find out what happened to the characters, and while it was entertaining, I finished feeling a little dissatisfied.
Marie turned out to be the most compelling female character, and I wish the book had been solely in her POV so we could've gotten to know her better.
I think that the multiple POV's watered down the emotion somewhat for me, and I felt like I didn't really get to know any of the characters as much as I would've liked.
Overall not a bad story, and I definitely cared enough to finish.
This book was hard to get through and extremely boring at times.
The author spent more time having the characters whine and complain about their life than actually do anything about it.
Most chapters had them complaining about not getting enough work or not getting paid enough.
Reading a story about a bunch of people bitching is not my cup of tea.
Plus all the male characters were either one extreme end or the other.
When any characters were making glass the descriptions were rushed and minimal as though the author was bored about writing these kinds of details.Interesting story concept but poor execution.
I thought this was a very pleasing read.
The book follows the lives of the Steinnmann sisters, following the death of their father.
The whole book is credible and formed a nice story.
I think part of my enjoyment stemmed from it being a bit different.
With no knowledge of Lauscha, or its glassblowing heritage, it played on a bit of curiosity.
Having snippets of German history there made it more engaging than just a bog standard bit of fiction.
The book summary largely gives away the main theme of the story, but I think the beauty is in the journey with this one.
Якщо взяти три сюжети з першого-другого ешелонів любовного роману (поширений, трохи менш поширений, майже чесна друга лава), додати проблематики від #янебоюсьсказати та декоративно притрусити емілезоляном, то вийде щось добряче дивне. Типове: от нащо ви мені зіпсували хорошу виробничу драму на небанальну тему "Емансипація серед ремісників-кустарів" тією романтикою? Але яке вже є. Драми недодали (вірніше, додали драми не з тієї діжки), а для шанувальників дистильованої романтики - забагато нудних подробиць. От подробиць хочу іще, але анотації до продовжень не дуже обнадійливі.
Let me assure everyone that Petra Durst-Benning is one of the finest authors I have ever read.
Especially her trilogies which follow families through tough and creative times, usually starting late in the 19th century.The history and location (usually small villages around Germany) are always fascinating.
And as you can tell by the title, this trilogy is focused on the artistry of glassblowing - and that women were forbidden to do it.
There are many interesting "firsts" in this book that are based on history.Fantastic!
I highly recommend this book, now I am off the read the 2d one in this trilogy.
Marie I really enjoyed her artistic talent and how determined she was to continue what she wanted to pursue, yet I felt her under developed as a character.
I understand the rape scene had to happen and would have happened without Ruth insisting she was with her and Wanda for photos but I just kept thinking why could Johanna tell her the men in her life and is feisty with her sisters but can't tell her sister 'No I have to be at the shop!' To me, did not seem to align with her character.
Interested in end-of-19th Century small-craftsmanship village life in Germany?
Like books about sisters and family and the choices they make?Wanna know how glassblowing works?The Glassblower is a story about 3 sisters who live in a small village in the Thuringian forest of Germany where the entire village's livelihood rests on the male glassblowers.
However, since series tend to hook me by making me fall in love with a character, and none of the sisters really hooked me, I may not continue on with the series despite the interesting developments at the end that involve emerging U.S. commercialism.
make characters experience conflict3.
wrap up all conflict4.
everyone gets a ridiculously happy endingThe conflict was all mashed together in the middle.
All loose ends wrapped up so everyone could be happy even if they never seemed to be heading in that direction.
The youngest sister that gets into a traditionally male trade has absolutely no hiccups in the launching of her business, just more and more orders for her work.The one character pairing I was actually interested to see come together was Marie and Magnus.
“The Glassblower” was very good!
It is the story of a family in the little village of Lauscha, Germany that is the heart of the glass industry.
(And apparently still is today.) The story takes place in the last part of the 19th century.The Steinmann family includes three daughters and their widowed father, a master glass blower.
Unfortunately their father dies suddenly and the daughters are forced to make difficult decisions.
The paths they choose, both separately and together, take courage and fortitude to make it in the glass industry so dominated by men.
“The Glassblower” is #1 in a trilogy.
One goes to the medium-sized city to become a shopgirl and learns to be a hard-headed businesswoman.
You've proabably read the summary, that women don't blow glass in this village (although they paint it) so the solution to the girls' problem, while long in coming, is so obvious that I was just waiting for them to get to it already.
Each of the girls also has a romance interest.I did recognize a lot of the description of German thinking and behavior, coming from that background myself.
It was sort of a comforting book, but also kind of clunky and obvious.
The Steinmann sisters help their father in his glassblowing business.
So each sister sets out to find a way to support them.
Each sister takes a different approach to their predicament and each sister must find her own peace and way through life.The story started out painfully slow.
Starts out so slow you almost fall asleep and stays that way for about 200 pages.
The problem was this book never grabbed me like The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo finally did.
It just kept dragging on.
I kept getting glimpses of something great, but it was fleeting.
