https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152401.Rich_Christians_in_an_Age_of_Hunger
My eyes were opened not only to the plight of a "billion hungry neighbors", but also to the concern that God has for the poor of this world, as evidenced in His word.
It seems that almost every time I open my Bible now, I am seeing verses about the poor and oppressed.
While I believe I need to make changes in my thinking and spending as a result of this book, I would also love to connect w/ other believers who have been equally moved by this book and are ready to act.
Then he talks about God's intense love for the poor, and that if we want to "be imitators of God" we must as Christians learn to share in that love.
I left this book really wanting to do more to make a difference...
The best thing about this book was also the worst thing - sooo much information.
Never before have a seen a pastor (no offense John haha) talk so intelligently about ALL facets of poverty.
After reading this, I find myself welcoming God to start asking.
Unfortunately it can longer be read with the degree of hope that originally greeted it, with the hope that all Christians could unite in changing society - that the hungry would be fed, the wounded healed, the oppressed freed.
The intervening years have destroyed any hope that evangelicals, the "moral majority", the fundamentalist churches, would be convinced by Sider's Biblical arguments and would become a force for social justice.
Any interest these folks have in changing society is to make it as "righteous" as they are - in improving it only by forcing a general conformity to their own beliefs and practices.
None of these folks are ever going to accept Sider's argument, no matter how Biblical it is.
I think this book is right on.
However, my adult discussion group I read it with struggled with it.
They questioned the very backbone of the book biblical analysis, especially the concept of the Jubilee.
The book starts with Biblical analysis from an evangelical conservative perspective.
Moves to an economic review of the world which the author reminds us is much less trustworthy than his biblical analysis and then to prescriptions for Christians.
Demanding without being overbearing the 5th edition of the book is a worthy read if you are concerned about Jesus beatitude Blessed are the poor and his alternate woe to the rich!
I took more notes on this book than any I've read before, mostly scripture passages, talking about wealth, greed, poverty, and stewardship.
If the powerful don't help the powerless, their conditions simply won't change.The last 1/3 of the book you may find controversial, or just disagree with.
The author takes what economics knowledge he has to suggest ways we can tackle issues of poverty today.
Think about an economic system sustained by a backbone of greed.
It gets very political, but there are some really interesting points to think about!Western Christians are proven skeptical in their giving towards the local church.
However, most of the time it was because it was difficult to read.
The original book was written more than 40 years ago.
It has been quoted and referenced in multiple books I’ve read over the years and I was determined to read it for myself.
The book deserves time to process the material.
In my opinion, part 2 of the 4 part book should be read by every believer.
Thankfully this book has provided plenty of real life examples.
Es un libro que brinda estadísticas bastante actuales en cuando a la realidad del hambre, es profundo y acertado en su teología y claro en la exposición del mensaje que quiere transmitir.
"Cristianos ricos en la era del hambre", contrastando la realidad de la pobreza mundial con la realidad de la riqueza, trata de (al menos) hacer reflexionar a los cristianos ricos en cuanto a su estilo de vida económico.Muy buen libro que todos los cristianos (especialmente nosotros los acomodados económicamente hablando) deberían leer.
Whether or not you agree with all of his assertions or proposals, Ronald Sider forces Christian readers to confront the reality of poverty and our responsibility to the poor and dispossessed.
Having said that, Sider is remarkably centrist and genuflects before the 'wisdom' of economists perhaps too much in response to criticism of earlier additions.
Still, it is important to figure out the implications for our current socioeconomic norms and values of things like: Jubilee, the Sabbatical Year, tithing and gleaning, and the NT's many (many) statements regarding the poor?
This is where he steps on toes, but my only concern was that I think some liberal-leaning Christians use this book to say things that Sider does not say.For example, Sider understands the incredible potential for free trade to empower poor people in developing countries to move up the economic ladder.
I know some misguided Christians who take this and begin advocating against free trade deals, not understanding (as Sider does) that some trade is better than no trade.Sider, like James Halteman, calls for a more Book of Acts style community way of living.
Anyone who gets through this book will come away knowing: 1) Hunger is a BIG problem; 2) Christians have the resources to stop it; 3) Caring for the poor is presented in the Bible as a paramount issue for Christian discipleship; and 4) We need to do more, and there are things we can do.
The thing is, if it was a slog for me to read, there aren't many people I know who will pick it up & fewer yet who will finish it, which is unfortunate because the problems are real and we CAN do something about it.
And at the time of publication, many Christians were doing little to change the structures that kept poor people poor.
What's disturbing to me is the realization of how little has changed since "Rich Christians" came out.
Sider calls on Christians to live mindfully, with intention, and with regard to all those living in poverty, everywhere.
All these things are good deeds, but this author demands nothing short of revolution in our personal lives, the life of the Church, the life of our nation, and the life of the world--if we are to address poverty as Christ calls us to do.
Schneider's book, "The Good of Affluence." The combined reading of these two opposing books will help Christ's servant discern both biblical teaching on wealth as well as assist in making personal decisions about saving, giving, spending, and investing.Sider's passion is for Christians to live modestly in order to advance the gospel and help the poor develop wealth.
He calls Christians to live radically modest lives, forsaking unnecessary material possessions in order to advance the kingdom of God. He gives specific examples on how to do this with a clear aim to avoid legalism.===============Quotes:Affluence is the god of twentieth-century North Americans, and the adman is his prophet (191).
Some say his controversial or communist. Perhaps in earlier editions he was more radical. This seemed to me to be balanced and sensible. I may contend with some of his interpretations, but the general tenor, I don't contend with. If anything, I would say the Scriptures are more radical. His call for Christians to move past their mass consumption to concern and sacrificial generosity for the poor is biblical. But he doesn't even ask us to sacrifice all that much. He is asking for the biblical minimum.
Just plain bad.
Poorly thought out solutions to very real issues.
“God wants every person and family to have equality of economic opportunity, at least to the point of having access to resources necessary (land, money, education), so that by working responsibly they can earn a decent living and participate as dignified members of their community.” –Sider xiv Ron Sider presents several complex arguments.
No matter one’s political stance or religious affiliation, as Christians we are given via biblical text a moral responsibility to live humbly and show charity to our brothers and sisters, willingly.
World poverty is a common theme in the news and in many Christian circles today, perhaps due in part because of the efforts of the author and those like him who promoted the cause of the poor.
It still has problems, but yay!" (Not a direct quote.)What is nice is that those who have more liberal tendencies and those who have more conservative tendencies can come to the same place of concern for the poor.
This book was kind of what I expected.
(I understand that he believes that God judged the Israelite people for their unjust treatment of the poor.
I believe that was a symptom of a larger problem.
I understand that the core issue was that the Lord's covenant people fell away from living and worshiping their covenant God. Their mistreatment of others was a symptom of them failing to live in relationship to their covenant God. They were no longer a blessing to other people.
A convicting and unapologetic call to "rich" Christians living in the affluent global superpower of the United States to take seriously the claims of the Bible in general and Jesus in particular relevant to money, the poor, and economic justice.
Sider makes a strong biblical case spanning throughout Scripture from Levitical "Jubilee" law to Jesus' words to the rich young ruler, from Amos' scathing critique of Israel's unchecked material prosperity at the expense of the poor, to Paul's plea to the Corinthians to live simply.
The books is divided into three parts, I'll explain each section from his point of view.1)Poor Lazarus and Rich Christians, or I don't understand what causes poverty: There are currently 218 gizmos running around and America is currently using 130 of them.
Never heard of him.3)Implementation, or I'm going to apply my mental dystopia: Live in a commune, eat veggies, stop having so many kids (surprise, surprise), start a garden, and vote for Socialists!My personal favorite of his "practical" suggestions: use "the postage paid envelopes of direct mail advertisers to object to their unscrupulous advertising." In the words of Dave Barry, I am not making this up.Of course, my heart goes out to any poor sap who actually bought this idea.
Every western follower of Jesus should read this book, but beware: don't read it if you're not open to having your mind changed by Scripture.
The book has 3 parts: Sider does a fantastic job of exploring (1) the biblical teaching on wealth and poverty, (2) the realities of wealth and poverty in our world, and (3) creative ways of responding as believers.
His biblical work was well-balanced, challenging, and eye-opening.
The current realities were informative, challenging, and eye-opening.
And his creative responses were encouraging and hope-producing--lots of real-life examples of what people are currently doing to live in response to the Scriptures and the problems in our world.
Great balance of evangelical and social justice, and advocacy of capitalism with some restraints.
Primary theme seems to be the idea of the Jubilee from the Old Testament where some type of redistribution needs to happen, otherwise the rich will get richer and the poor will die in hunger and disease at an even faster rate than they do.
Some readers may glaze over some of the stats, and there were probably some theological thoughts I don't entirely resonate with, but definitely thought provoking and has discussion questions after each chapter.
One of the most interesting things about this book is Sider's views and edits that he made in the 20th anniversary edition.
The earlier edition was decidedly more liberal policies leaning, but in later editions it seems some faith had been lost in the political answers to the problems of hunger, poverty, and injustice.
Of course politics in its raw form simply means "public life" and certainly to do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with God we are also called to walk with others who are mistreated, oppressed, and poor.
This is the book form of the seven year experience I had in Uganda: the rich ought to share with the poor in Jesus name.
I am being totally rocked by this book.
It's radical and I love it, but am simultaneously challenged by its Truth.
The statistics in Section One are outdated due to this edition's publish date of 1984...
Yet, the other sections relay timeless Biblical Truths and Sider highlights lots of Scripture.
I've also found a great Appendix of Social Action Organizations (many of them Christian), which I am particularly excited about.
I feel stirred to personalize and apply these principles in my life and my family's-- and perhaps eventually use my public policy training to more overtly work for Kingdom principles.
Now that's a great read.
This book is certainly well researched and includes a lot of valuable information.
I believe there was too much trying to be accomplished by this one book, however, so I really look forward to reading his others where I can get a more comprehensive look at the different aspects he brought up in this book.
This should be required reading for anyone, not just Christians.
Ideally we would all be convicted in a sense that if we were to try and live more simply, we could aid others to simply live.
A little goes a long way.
Everybody should read this. It's really convicting about how we tend to spend money on ourselves while others are dying of starvation. Sider presents a case of how wealthy Americans are, explains God's heart for the poor, and gives practical suggestions. He talks a little about how developing nations face a system of oppression and steps to change that. This book encouraged me to live simply and give more. Get the new edition--in it he says he learned a lot more about economics than in the first edition.
I read this book while I was in Scotland taking a class that had to do with Christianity and social justice issues. This book became very important to me that semester because it was the only book I could find about the subject that represented the evangelical perspective. Even though some of Sider's ideas might be naive, I still think that Rich Christians is worth the read, simply because it makes you think. It really helped shape my thoughts about Christianity as it relates to poverty and justice.
It's good for those who haven't engaged the topic before, and perhaps for those who aren't doing enough on their own to help the poor. However, it doesn't try to make an argument for why Christians should engage our government and encourage them to stand up for the poor. Perhaps this was obvious for many people, but I've ran into so many people recently who drag their heels on trying to make real change that I believe there needs to be more written to reach them. But perhaps that wasn't the focus on the book.
This book really opened my eyes to the reality of hunger in the world, and the affluence with which we, here in the US, have become so comfortable with (at the expense of other people, other nations, and economies).I read it many years ago, and it inspired my husband and myself to propose to our friends, the concept of living in a "communal neighborhood" (sharing resources in order to free more resources to help others). However, we had no idea how hard it would be to sell this idea. I encourage everyone to read this book. Expect to be challenged.
this is an important book for everyone.
makes a very good case for how helping the poor is central to a christian life.
the book was very informative, with a lot of info/current statistics on poverty and will open your eyes to how people are living around the world.
at times it was a bit overwhelming as sider gives so many different examples of things we could be doing as a government and as individuals to alleviate poverty, but it's definitely a source i'll be going back to from time to time to remind myself of the responsibility that comes with the great blessings we have as americans.
