https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6691.My_Uncle_Oswald
What bothers me the most about this book isn't even the sexism, although there is plenty of it to go around.
What bothers me is the fact that the characters are so blatantly being raped by the means of a drug rape.
Dahl makes light of this issue, tries to make us laugh at it, and probably succeeds.
Ugh disgusting.If you can overlook these issues, this book is hilarious, but c'mon, do you really want to overlook these issues?I'm not amused.
I'm sad because Dahl was one of my favourite authors ever, and I don't know how to look beyond this now.
Roald Dahl might like us to dismiss the rank male chauvinism, tired stereotypes, and hackneyed writing in this book, on the grounds that his "Uncle Oswald" is a charming old rogue.
But there's nothing charming about the implied contempt for women that oozes through the lazy prose of Oswald's creaky tale.
Nothing in this book matches the wit and talent evident in those earlier stories.
This book is a dud.
Uh, the book is an excerpt from the diaries of the eponymous Uncle Oswald "the connoisseur, the bon vivant, the collector of spiders, scorpions and walking-sticks, the lover of opera, the expert on Chinese porcelain, the seducer of women, and without much doubt the greatest fornicator of all time." The story covers his discovery of the Blister Beetle (the world's most potent aphrodisiac) and his attempt to make a million pound by collecting the sperm of the greatest men of the age, freezing them and selling them on rich, female clients.


What started off as a fun, entertaining, well-written frolic ultimately, due to its sexism, homophobia, and glorified rape-culture left a horrendous taste in my mouth.
For a large chunk of the book, Oswald and his business-partner Yasmin travel around Europe tricking famous kings, painters, musicians, writers and the like into taking the aphrodisiac -- once the men are overcome with lust and simply MUST rip off Yasmin's clothes and have sex with her, she puts a "rubbery thing" on them (did they not have the word 'condom' yet??) to collect (read: steal) their sperm to eventually sell in a black market type situation.
For as well-written as the book was, I could not get past the rape-culture and obvious consent issues glorified by the storytelling.
This book is obscene, it is not erotic.
All centered around a scheme to collect sperm in straws from King Alfonso, Renoir, Monet, Picasso, Stravinsky, Matisse, Proust, Joyce, the Royal Families the world over – and the insane plotline around it.
Dahl’s imagination does what only his can do; cook up hilarious hairbrained unattractive and testosterone injected male fantasies of unlimited wealth and women.
There is a concoction of pickled humans, beetle potion for arousal, octopus in stomachs, frozen sperm kings, twists to the end, ask not what else.
Just be forewarned; it is imaginative and grotesque, and will contribute absolutely nothing of value to your life.
Stop whatever you're doing and read this book right now. You're welcome.
Tapi kali ini dia membawa imajinasinya ke dimensi lain yang jauh lebih dewasa, My Uncle Oswald.Pernahkah terpikir bisa punya anak dari tokoh-tokoh hebat dunia seperti Monet, Picasso, Einstein, Puccini, Bernard Shaw atau dari raja-raja Eropa yang tak tersentuh?
Oswald yang genius dan selalu mendambakan tantangan memilih cara yang tidak biasa untuk meraup uang, yaitu dengan menjual sperma milik tokoh-tokoh terkenal.
Dia dibantu profesornya yang menciptakan wadah penyimpan sperma agar bisa tahan hingga puluhan tahun, dan gadis cantik keturunan Persia, Yasmin, yang menjadi 'pancingan' agar para lelaki hebat itu bisa berejakulasi.
English youth Oswald makes his first fortune at 17 by journeying to the Sudan, purchasing a chunk of the world's most potent aphrodisiac (ground-up Blister Beetles), and selling it in pill form to the wealthiest men (and then women too) of Paris.
But Oswald returns to England determined to strike it even richer.
R. Woresley, Oswald's chemistry tutor at Cambridge - who's doing research in sperm preservation, extracting semen from prize bulls - and, after Oswald has helped out with the sticky mechanics of bull-semen-snatching, he naturally gets the idea to transfer the technique to humans.
Needed (once reluctant Woresley agrees to cooperate): a resourceful female confederate.
I haven't added a book to my favorites page in FOREVER and I'm so happy that the honored spot is going to this one.What a lot of fun. Just what a spectacular book. I mean, does this book reveal deep and special feelings within me? No - nor should it have. That would have been inappropriate and uncomfortable for everyone.Instead, this book is just a savage, salacious jaunt through Europe with a few people who've decided that early 20th century morality wasn't that big of a deal and EVERYONEJUSTNEEDSTOHAVEADRINKOKAY.Aaaaand maybe some sex.
I kind of regret not taking the time to review this book when I first finished reading it.
Since it was quite some time ago – around two years, if I'm not mistaken – main part of the plot is kind of gone and I'm now left with my overall impression of this book.
I knew Roald Dahl was brilliant when, 8 years old and just finished with Matilda, I decided it was too good a book and promised myself I'd never read a translated book again.
So to this day I still owe him a great deal.Back to the book, it's Dahl for adults.
I love Roald Dahl dearly, but our relationship is on the rocks.
Very funny at first, and then you realize it's very funny largely because this is a famous children's book author writing a book about a lecherous, greedy man who makes money by selling love potions and then by convincing the one woman he feels any connection with to extract semen (in the usual manner) from geniuses and royals, all with a view to selling the precious swimmers to rich, stupid women who want to have the children of the afore-mentioned gents.
The book is like a chic-lit novel, but without the character development, and targeted at the kind of men who inhabit the novels of Evelyn Waugh.
In fact, I think in some sense that's exactly what My Uncle Oswald is: a bad, shallow version of Evelyn Waugh novel.
After finding out about the world's strongest aphrodisiac, he makes a small fortune selling pills for men and women in need.
Later on, he decides to multiply that small fortune into a huge one by using the extra-strong aphrodisiac to seduce them and enlisting the aid of the amazingly beautiful Yasmin for, er, sperm collection.
And some of that leads to fantastic and very unlikely things appearing (a king who has a couch which moves to do the fornicating for him, for example).I see some other reviewers complaining this book is misogynistic, which I didn't feel at all.
Pe scurt e vorba de un praf făcut dintr-un gândac sudanez care e un extraordinar afrodiziac - cu efect puternic și brusc.
Oricine ingerează un vârf de ac de astfel de praf devine în 9 minute (pe ceas) un animal sexual sălbatic, care va face absolut orice să-și satisfacă nevoile.Inițial, Oswald pornește o mică afacere pornind de la acel praf, dar în momentul în care un profesor inventează o metodă de a colecta și conserva sperma umană, Oswald vine cu un plan parșiv și lipsit de scrupule de a se îmbogăți.E o proză cuminte și pe alocuri repetitivă, motiv pentru care spre final pare lipsită de imaginație.
What I learned from this book is that Roald Dahl has some serious issues with women.
This book is based on the fake memoirs of Uncle Oswald, the "greatest fornicator of all time".
I thought it would be a fun and funny read (which it was in some sense), but it was also glorifying the sexual abuse and use of women for men's pleasure.
Oswald gets rich from selling "potency pills" made from a rare beetle that is found only in Sudan.
He then uses these pills to arouse famous men so that he can steal their sperm and sell to lonely women.
Es una novela corta de carácter erótico-festivo (o sea, humor con toques light de escenas sexuales) ambientada a comienzos del siglo XX y donde relata en primera persona las aventuras que le acontecieron al tío Oswald y sus asociados en su intento exitoso de hacerse rico, muy rico.Es muy divertida de leer y si queréis pasar un ratito (son sólo 200 pags.) de humor con sonrisa perpetua, coged este libro y preparaos para novela ligera donde olvidaros de los malos rollos y disfrutad de la mano del licencioso y caradura tío Oswald.No esperéis ni grandes personajes ni profundidad de ningún tipo, claro.
Leed y sonreíd, no es más.
Para mí de 8/10, muy recomendable por tanto.P.D: Resulta que el Dahl este ha escrito varios cuentos infantiles de renombre y, curiosamente, el guión de la peli de 007 "Sólo se vive dos veces".
Polifacético el chico como escritor, ¿eh?
Nu e ceea ce ne-am fi așteptat de la Roald Dahl. Parțial amuzant, parțial problematic.
Dahl'dan müthiş komik, zekice yazılmış bir başyapıt. Neden daha fazla okunup konuşulmadığını asla anlayamayacağız.
Teraz som ju vzal do rúk, reku Dahla som ešte nikdy nečítal.
Problémom tejto knihy je jej banálnosť, predvídateľnosť, mizerné a infantilné dialógy, ploché postavy - a fakt, že Roald Dahl vlastne vystaval celú zábavu na drogovaní (!) a znásilňovaní (!!!) ľudí.
Vy tak už po pár stranách tusíte, že toto bude niekde na úrovni Lady Fuckingham‎ovej, lenže horšie.
Ale potom príde 30.
"'Ach, ty úchvatný mládenec!' vykríkla a skočila po mne ako tigrica." A vy viete, že od tejto knihy treba skočiť preč.
Vydržal som, dal som ešte ďalších sto strán a dúfal, že sa to zlepší.
"My Uncle Oswald" is mad and outrageous and hilarious. I'd forgotten how funny Roald Dahl books were, not having read any since school days. The story is utterly fantastic but I lapped it up like a cat does cream. Plot involves the discovery of a Viagra-like compound and features precursors to female Viagra, IVF, and sperm banks. Marvellous story-telling by Dahl through an unscrupulous but charming narrator. Don't make the mistake of pegging Dahl as only a children's author. It's time for all grown-ups to revisit the Dahl corpus!
And a funny twist of how viagra and artificial insemination could have started.I probably would have enjoyed this book much more If I were a young teenager just learning about my sexual desires (yes, I was reading a lot of such books in those days and it was glorious!).
So maybe it's not a bad idea to put this book in Children's section - they're the only ones who can really enjoy such book (and secretly educate themselves about sex, sort of!).
This is my first go at reading his adult stories and I must say, I did enjoy it.
Excellent back stage reading.
This translates into being easy enough to pick up and put down at odd intervals and read in the dark, but also having content that is compelling enough to keep you interested while your ears are hearing the same play for the 27th time being screamed just on the other side of the curtain.
I don’t know that I can ever read James and the Giant Peach again without thinking dirty thoughts.
Dirty!
Roald Dahl, you are dirty.
Roald Dahl, you are dirty.
Sentí una pulsada de emoción al leer la contraportada de este libro -como si hubiera ingerido un escarabajo sudanés-, fui contra él y comencé a devorarlo. Lo peculiar de Dahl es que su mayor trabajo reconocido es en el rango de literatura para infantil. Libros encantadores que han cruzado las fronteras hacia otros medios artísticos. El tío Oswald es en cambio, un texto sobre un tipo sin escrúpulos, lascivo y ambicioso. El libro está lleno de picardía, Ingenio y humor.
Παρωχημένο χιούμορ κάκιστης ποιότητας.
Vtipný (poriadny čierny humor) príbeh plný sexu a vulgarizmov. Nič pre puritánov. Ja som sa schuti zasmiala.
(Many of the best writers were published in Harper's and The New Yorker back in those days).A few years back, I discovered his "Omnibus" which left me enthralled, enchanted and chomping at the bit for more.
This is not quite the Dahl I knew.Our hero is Uncle Oswald, described as "the greatest fornicator of all time." In this book, much to my chagrin, I finally found out what a snozzberry was.
Yasmin is an integral part of the plan, as she slips this drug to kings, sculptures, doctors and dutifully collects the DNA.

(my uncle oswald) רואלד דאל ידוע בעיקר בזכות ספרי הילדים שכתב: "מטילדה", "צרלי בממלכת השוקולד" ועוד.
כשנתקלתי בספר הזה שלו, לא ידעתי שכתב גם עבור מבוגרים ובכלל לא ידוע לי על תרגום עוד ספרים למבוגרים מפרי עטו.
הספר מתאר את קורותיו של אוסוולד קורנליוס בשנים שלפני מלחמת העולם הראשונה ועד 1935.
אוסוולד בחור צעיר נהנתן, בעל תאוות לחיים טובים, לכסף, נשים ומין לא בהכרח בסדר הזה.
הספר מתאר את ניסיונות ההתעשרות שלו מהמצאה שנקראת חיפושית התפיחה ואשר משפיעה בצורות מוזרות על הגברים הלוקחים אותה.
הסיפור מתאר בצורה משעשעת וצינית את קורותיהם.
