https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301321.The_Case_of_the_Gilded_Fly
”The trouble is, we’re all so damnably intelligent at Oxford, “ he said irritably. “the fact of murder, which rouses an immediate instinct of self-preservation in the unsophisticated, has to penetrate to our animal souls through a thick barrier of sophisms; apparently in the present case it hasn’t even done that--merely bounced off again. Yet murder remains murder, none the less and there’s no way of getting around it.” Robert Bruce Montgomery A.K.A. Edmund Crispin was a composer as well as crim
R. James's ghost storiesBen Jonson's VolponePierre Choderlos de Laclos's Les Liaisons dangereuses (Fen compares Yseut Haskell to the Marquise de Merteuil)Edward Lear's "The Quangle Wangle's Hat"Wyndham LewisAndrew Marvell's "To His Coy Mistress" ("The grave's a fine and private place")Henry de Montherlant (in particular his creation, the character of Pierre Costals, an aristocratic writer, libertine and dedicated bachelor)The legend of the Questing BeastWilliam Shakespeare's King Lear (the book title), Pericles, Timon of Athens (mention of the two prostitutes, Phrynia and Timandra), and Measure for Measure("Ay, but to die, and go we know not where")Richard Brinsley Sheridan's The Critic ("Mr. Puff, as he knows all this, why does Sir Walter go on telling him?")Rex Warner's The Professor (1938)Charles WilliamsThe Fen that they refer to is our main character Gervase Fen, a college professor who becomes bored if there isn’t an occasional murder to sort out.
I got the sense that he had never actually interacted with women on a personal level but rather drew his predisposedly-sexist inferences about them from watching the behavior of young people on dates in restaurants.
All women really want is to get married so they can stay home and look after their husbands.
Nothing spells "devoted husband" like a guy forgetting his murdered love within a couple days!I found this recurrent and often gratuitous sexism sufficiently annoying that it diminished my enjoyment of the writing, which is the main attraction.
These include the playwright Robert Warner, actress Yseut Haskell who seems universally disliked, organist Donald Fellowes, who is in love with the uncaring Yseut, and journalist Nigel Blake, who studied under Gervase Fen and is hoping to meet actress Helen Haskell, Yseut's sister, and who is the main character we witness events through.
Still, Gervase Fen, who is great friends with Sir Richard Freeman, the Chief Constable of Oxford, states he knows who is responsible for the crime.
I enjoyed the setting, with the use of rep theatre, Oxford University and the wartime era being used to great effect.
This first detective novel by Edmund Crispin (nom de plume of composer Robert Bruce Montgomery) has all the characteristics beloved by fans of his masterpiece The Moving Toyshop: the hothouse Oxford University atmosphere, the ornate and impish prose style, the bewildering superabundance of literary allusion, and that memorable—if not quite beloved—character, the eccentric English professor (and amateur detective) Gervase Fen.When actress Iseult is found shot in the head with a pistol days before the debut performance of Robert Warner’s Metromania, almost everyone involved in the Oxford repertory production could be a suspect.
So I was tickled when this first book in the series – which I'd never picked up before – became the book-of-the-month at the revived Goodreads English Mysteries Group.It's been a long time since I've read a Gervase Fen mystery.
Something I kept finding in looking up Edmund Crispin was the constant refrain of how much Gervase Fen owes to Lord Peter Wimsey.
Did I love the self-aware reference to Gideon Fell (and, in a sort of way, to Lord Peter)?
(hide spoiler)]We are introduced to the amateur detective Gervase Fen, a professor and literary critic who works out the crime in three minutes and spends the rest of the book dropping hints about how he knows what went on but he's not going to tell anyone until they've worked it out for themselves, neener neener neener.
When he makes Fen say, mid-book, "In fact I'm the only literary critic turned detective in the whole of fiction", I think he's showing us right there that his intention is to subvert the murder mystery genre rather than add to it.The writing, on the other hand, was superb and often very funny.
Center-stage is the beautiful, malicious Yseult, a mediocre actress with a stellar talent for destroying men.
When Yseult is murdered, Fen finally gets his wish.
Though clear kin to Lord Peter Wimsey, Fen is a spectacular original--brilliant, eccentric and rude, much taken with himself and his splendid yellow raincoat, and given to quoting Lewis Carroll at inappropriate occasions.
Gilded Fly, originally published in 1944, was both Fen's first outing and the debut of the pseudonymous Crispin (in reality, composer Bruce Montgomery), whom the New York Times once called the heir to John Dickson Carr .
‘El misterio de la mosca dorada’ (The Case of the Gilded Fly, 1944), del inglés Edmund Crispin, pseudónimo de Bruce Montgomery (1921-1978), pertenece a la Edad de Oro de las novelas de detectives.
Gervase, detective aficionado, es tan excéntrico y como brillante, para desesperación de sus allegados.‘El misterio de la mosca dorada’ es la primera novela donde aparece Gervase Fen. La historia está ambientada en Oxford, y los hechos centrales se mueven en torno a una obra de teatro que se va a representar en esta ciudad.


We keep getting told about how she died because of sex and (view spoiler)[it turns out she was ultimately killed because she blackmailed someone about procuring prostitutes, and the detective, who's very sad about the murderer's downfall, says these girls are more sinning than sinned against.
(hide spoiler)] I found it all very distasteful.
This is the first in a series I've read several of and actually liked, finding them well-written, irreverent and fun.
If you're thinking about trying this series, don't start with this one.
The histories of tension between some of the characters lead to a tangle of motives, and there’s a lot of that sort of half-baked romance characteristic of so much British light fiction from earlier eras.
Set during World War II but published in the 1950s, there is a Mad Men flavor to the relations between the sexes.
Sounds like I didn’t enjoy it, right?
Fen, an Oxford literature don with a talent for detecting, is one of the most lively, unpredictable amateur sleuths I have ever read.
I’m a sucker for an academic setting and enjoy trailing gamely along in the wake of the witty and erudite dialogue.
First, the things I like: • The WWII Oxford setting;• The stylish prose (possibly a bit pretentious, with its liberal sprinkling of Latin quotations and literary allusions, but I’m a sucker for that sort of thing);• The post-modern, self-referential touches;• The theatre theme;• The juxtaposition of the lecturer in literature who loves detecting crime and the policeman whose hobby is literary criticism;• Gervase Fen’s put-upon but wonderfully snarky wife.
My reading of other reviews of Crispin’s work suggests that this is not the best of the Gervase Fen series, so I may read another at some point.

The story opens by introducing eleven characters as they arrive in Oxford by train - some are academics at the University, others are involved with a play that the local repertory company will be putting on in the city.
The mystery unfolds through the eyes of one of the characters, journalist Nigel Blake - he is visiting his former tutor Gervase Fen and also decides to see the rehearsals for the play.
It is left to Gervase Fen to convince them that it is murder, and to unmask the killer.This is a clever and amusing mystery, full of literary allusions.
La trama detectivesca es entretenida aunque seguramente no la recordaré por mucho tiempo. Lo que más me ha gustado ha sido la ambientación en ese Oxford de los años 40 con la localización universitaria y la teatral. El libro está plagadito de referencias literarias de las que sólohe podido pillar una ínfima parte. Por eso recomiendo estas ediciones de Impedimenta en laS que están todas explicadas a través de las notas a pie de página e incluso un postfacio firmado por el también traductor jose c. vales
El misterio de la mosca dorada es una novela de detectives que sigue la estela de los grandes clásicos de este tipo de literatura como Agatha Christie o Conan Doyle.
La nota que lo distingue de sus compañeros de género es quizás la extravagancia de dicho detective, Gervase Fen, un profesor de literatura un tanto malhumorado, impaciente, excéntrico y con cierta ironía, apegado a los mecanismos de este tipo de obra, que le llevan a actuar de acuerdo a directrices como la de no revelar hasta el último capítulo la identidad del asesino.Otra nota diferenciadora y que en este caso resulta irritante, son las alusiones literarias cultas que salpican en exceso la novela.
elegant, literate, and funny.' In this, the first novel in the series, a 'pretty but spiteful young actress' named Yseut Haskell, who has a 'talent for destroying men's lives', is discovered dead in a University room 'just metres from unconventional Oxford don Gervase Fen's office.' In rather an amusing aside, the blurb says: 'Anyone who knew her would have shot her, but can Fen discover who could have shot her?'The Case of the Gilded Fly begins in early 1940, in a typically British manner: 'To the unwary traveller, Didcot signifies the imminence of his arrival at Oxford; to the more experienced, another half-hour at least of frustration.' On such a railway journey is where we first meet English Language and Literature Professor Fen - 'And as his only distraction was one of his own books, on the minor satirists of the eighteenth century, which he was conscientiously re-reading in order to recall what were his opinions of these persons, he became in the later stages of the journey quite profoundly unhappy' - as well as the other protagonists.
Me da pena decir que una novela negra no me ha llenado, en este caso, así ha sido. El excéntrico protagonista no me ha gustado y, para colmo, la resolución del caso, el comportamiento de los protagonistas y el motivo, tampoco. Lo siento pero este no lo recomiendo.
But just how the murderer did it is quite baffling.That makes this mystery particularly compelling, and a wonderful cast of characters gives it life and depth.Fen has the solution almost immediately, but he struggles with his conscience when it comes to identifying the murderer.That solution, when it comes is extraordinary, but utterly logical and possible.And so you have a perfect mystery, beautifully written and perfectly evoking time and place.Gervase Fenn though is a character you are likely to either love or hate.
Originally published on my blog here in June 2001.One of Crispin's best Gervase Fen novels, The Case of the Gilded Fly is about murder in a repertory company in Oxford.
The author also expends some effort in making Fen seem eccentric to the point of disagreeableness; he is not one of the cosier detectives in fiction.Though not as inventive as The Moving Toyshop, the Oxford setting seems to have inspired Crispin here too.
The title is partly a reference to a strange ring placed on Yseut's finger after her death, but also to King Lear (as the ring is meant to point out), which makes it a reference to Yseut's immorality.
It's somewhat inconsistent of me to be giving this 5 stars when I'd considered giving up on it a quarter of the way through.
The story isn't very engaging and the characters even less so.
Yet I'm already looking forward to reading the other ten Gervase Fen novels.
If you do take the plunge, the kindle version is very useful for looking up all the words and references, someone with a classical education, half a century ago, would get.
My ambition is to casually drop at least one of the new words I've learned into a conversation.
This book takes place during WW II at Oxford. It has a standard mystery format but is a real vocabulary stretcher. Starting about page 100, I kept track of the words I looked up. They were minatory, jejune, gnomic, cinereous, sempitennal, wahlverwandischaft, poltroonish, panatrope and whilom. The author also uses a lot of Latin and French phrases. Because the amateur detective, Gervase Fen, is an Oxford Professor of Language and Literature, the unusual words and foreign language phrases do not seem contrived. In most cases you can figure out roughly what they mean from context.
Ese interludio dedicado al memento mori, durante el cual la compañía del ferrocarril recuerda a los muchachos y muchachas en la flor de la vida que acabarán, de forma inevitable, convirtiéndose en polvo, aún se prolonga otros diez minutos –habitualmente-, tras los cuales el tren procede a continuar su andadura a regañadientes, y entra en esa estación a la que Max Beerbohm se refirió tan agudamente como “la última reliquia de la Edad Media.”Aunque parezca mentira, el fragmento anterior en el que se relata de una manera tan culta el acercamiento de un tren a Oxford, pertenece a la primera novela del detective Gervase Fen, El misterio de la mosca dorada, del escritor británico Edmund Crispin, ya mencionado en otras ocasiones en este blog con ocasión de sus anteriores novelas publicadas por Impedimenta.Parece mentira igualmente que esta primera novela sea un despliegue de alta magnitud literaria por la calidad de la propuesta; una propuesta que alcanza lo literario y lo popular a todos los niveles y a la que no le falta el buen humor:“-Dios, ¡cómo odio Oxford!
Nigel is going to see his old professor/don Gervaise Fen, and hopes to meet Helen, Yseut's sister.
Warner had only recently excused himself to go to the rest room when they all hear a shot.
They find Yseut in an apparent suicide with a bullet hole in the middle of her forehead.
The rest of the book is spent proving it.I waffled back and forth as to the identity.
Fen raises a question to his wife about the meaning of "On the horns of a dilemma".
I felt that this is a question that Fen would have known the answer to.
Verdict: An Oxbridge detective series which actually manages the impossible; being post-modern in a good way.Scanning my Big List ‘o Books, this title caught my eye.
As for Gervase, the professor/detective protagonist, I was expecting something far curmudgeonlier than the ADD addled manic depressive the book delivered.
When the motive is finally revealed it’s so vague and arbitrary that you feel no shame for not having seen it coming.That said this book was not entirely unrequiring of independent research.
Actually, I think it made me like him better.I enjoyed this book and Gervase has potential.
A cleverly-plotted Golden Age mystery that fascinated but bothered me - it's got some difficult attitudes to women for a reader in 2017, and smart as this is I couldn't quite look past them ... 12+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
Start of a series written in the 40s with an Oxford Don detective. Unfortunately didn't particularly like the detective, the cast of characters, or the resolution to the story.
Gervase Fen may be the most eccentric amateur in detective literature.
Theatre.Published in 1944, The Gilded Fly is one of those erudite English mysteries where Shakespearian quotations and allusions are thick on the ground, entirely unexplained, and where Latin is frequently used and infrequently translated into English.
His narrative voice is charming and occasionally weird, as when Gervase Fen says, I'm the only professor of literature turned amateur detective in all of literature.
There's a cheap ring in the form of a gilded fly that gives a clue to Gervase Fen but although it was explained, more or less, at the end of the book, I have no idea what it's about.
His Oxford don, Gervase Fen, is funny, snarky, whitty, absent-minded and brilliant.
Bloody brilliant, old thing!"Sheila McGraw, the young woman who produced the plays at the repertory theatre in Oxford, traveled third-class.
This harangue lasted until the train finally go into Oxford, when he bade Sheila a warm farewell and went away feeling slightly surprised at his eloquence.
However it seemed likely, she reflected with regret, that a farming life bore little actual resemblance to Eugene O'Neill's Desire Under the Elms."
