https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634041.The_House_on_the_Borderland_and_Other_Novels
Forgive me for name-dropping but we got into a conversation on his blog not too long ago and Brian told me that this was the book that ultimately got him interested in wanting to be a horror writer.
Couple this with the fact that in this vision is a house that looks identical to the one that The Recluse has just moved into and you have a truly Gothic horror tale that you want to keep reading until the end to find out what the heck is going on.
I really loved this book and highly recommend it to anyone who loves horror, Lovecraft, and supernatural tales of all types.
Events build up slowly at first, and Jessop is not sure who else has noticed what is going on, but one terrifying night things escalate and half the crew, including the Second Mate and even the Skipper, end up climbing the rigging looking for a sailor who has disappeared up above, burning flares and blue-lights (whatever they may be) and hanging lanterns around the ship in an attempt to hold back the danger that lurks in the darkness.William Hope Hodgson spent ten years at sea, and this story really rings true (except for the ghost pirates obviously).
Gave it up, the last hour I have absolutely no idea what I’m reading and where it was going if anywhere.
http://www.infinityplus.co.uk/nonfiction/houseontheborderland.htm[return][return]This volume gathers together all four of William Hope Hodgson's novels of the fantastic published in his lifetime (1877-1918): The Boats of the Glen Carrig, originally published in 1907; The House on the Borderland (1908); The Ghost Pirates (1909) and The Night Land (1912). It's in the usual attractive Gollancz Fantasy Masterworks package, with a very enthusiastic introduction from China Mi
Путешествие шлюпок с "Гленн-Карриг"Автор этих заметок начинает повесть с того, как матросы на спасательных шлюпках через пять дней плавания достигают некоего острова.
Также очень бросается в глаза, что практически ни у кого из матросов нет имён - кроме тех, кто уже почил и рассказать (опровергнуть?) ничего не может.
Это очень удивительно, учитывая, что на двух шлюпках не может быть слишком много народу, а уж общая беда должна объединить товарищей.
Третья - загадочный остров, на котором живут загадочные существа.
В отличие от более поздних фантастических произведений подобного плана, автор просто рассказывает историю, не пытаясь что-либо объяснить.
Автор рассказывает о том, как он попадает в другое измерение, где стоит дом, похожий на его.
Still immensely awesome the fifth time round - although his over-use of commas and adverbs gets annoying. Lots to say. Just have to fine the right place to say it.
The Boats of the Glen Carrig read on July 30, 2004
Full review here:http://apolloreborn.blogspot.com/2013...
