https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38656999-the-good-neighbor
I grew up watching Mister Rogers Neighborhood, and suffice it to say, most Americans who turned five by 2001 probably did as well.
Mister Rogers is by all accounts an American icon, so, when I saw on my goodreads feed a few months back that a new biography on Fred Rogers would be published this year, I knew that it was a book I just had to read.
The Good Neighbor, written by a longtime Rogers acquaintance Maxwell King, allows readers to meet the Fred Rogers from off the air.
It was a nostalgic trip, and has become one of the highlights of my reading year.
While the film focused primarily on the tv show, this book is the definitive Fred Rogers biography to date.
I was happy to learn more about his childhood and what events and people helped shape him into such a special man.
This is definitely a very thorough biography as it explores his childhood, education, the family he raised with his wife, and of course his career.
The second thing I found interesting in the book was the talk about Sesame Street.
Thank you Mr. Rogers for always being a helper!
His show never shied away from difficult issues such as disabilities, 9/11's terrorist attacks or bullying, but it was always explained in a way that both children and adults alike could understand.The Good Neighbor is one of the best biographies I've read in a long time.
I know a lot of people do make fun of Mister Rogers and his show as being "dorky", but some of his advice doesn't just limit itself to kids and it can't be denied that his words of wisdom and respect towards others are timeless and just as important for adults.
I was anxious to read this biography as my older kids really grew up with Mr. Rodgers and I admire him as a person and role model. However the writing in this biography is so mediocre and repetitive that I just can't finish. It's a shame because this could have been so much better.So DNF for me at 60%
“When I was a boy and I would see scary things in the news,” Rogers had told his young viewers, “my mother would say to me, 'Look for the helpers. You will always find people who are helping.' To this day, especially in times of disaster, I remember my mother's words, and I am always comforted by realizing that there are still so many helpers – so many caring people in this world.”    Yes, there are. Fred Rogers was proof of that. A man born with privileged demographics along with considerable
It not only showcases Rogers's beautiful human qualities, but also his family history, his educational pursuits and what inspired them, the business end of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood and other televised programs, examples of how his sensitivity was both a blessing and curse, and even a section where rumors are debunked about Rogers, such as tattoo sleeves, military service, etc.Admittedly, when I saw the audiobook was over 14 hours long, I almost skipped over this title, but later that day I had an encounter with a person in which the above quote was referenced and I took it as a sign.

I think it almost goes without saying that the world is going to heck in a hand basket, or the media wants us to think so, so this book by explaining an amazing man and how he truly CARED and slowed things down is such a huge boost.
I keep saying I want to make a tv station that plays only puppies, kittens, the occasional human baby and people HELPING each other.
Seriously, why ELSE would MILLIONS of people go online to look at videos of adorable kitties and puppies unless for a much needed boost of happiness/dopamine?
I really want to like this but IT NEEDS AN EDITOR SO BAD. I do not need to hear six times, in six different contexts, about how Fred stayed in an air conditioned room all summer one summer because his asthma was so bad. I'm still reading it, because I want to know more. But I really hope there's a little more editing prior to the actual publication date....OR IS THIS JUST HOW AVERAGE ADULT NONFICTION READS? I have been spoiled by the likes of the 57 Bus and Vincent and Theo.
Regardless I was intrigued by this biography and the concept of learning more about this man, whose songs I remember but whose life I do not.
Rogers could be difficult to work with but that wasn’t because of himself, it was because he was desperate to educate children and for him it had to be right.
Fred Rogers worked in children’s television for decades with the most memorable show being “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood.” There were moments while reading this book when I would look for clips of his show.
A nice, heartwarming refrain throughout the book was that Rogers was a 'what you see is what you get'-type of man -- devout, well-meaning, caring, tolerant / accepting, and absolutely devoted to the development of children.And yet I don't want to make it sound like a boring or predictable read.
The senator's change of heart and final response would make even the Grinch smile.I admit a certain amount of bias - since I was one of those viewers in the late 70's; in those pre-cable days Mister Rogers' Neighborhood (and Sesame Street) were the shows to watch as a kid - but it was great to learn that our 'TV neighbor' was a good man who first-and-foremost cared about educating / entertaining us in a positive way.
"i'm very much interested in choices, and what it is that enable us human beings to make the choices we make all through our lives. what choices lead to ethnic cleansing? what choices lead to healing? what choices lead to the destruction of the environment, the erosion of the sabbath, suicide bombings or teenagers shooting teenagers? what choices encourage heroism in the midst of chaos?" the good neighbor: the life and work of fred rogers is a comprehensive biography of mister rogers, one of th
the good neighbor: the life and work of fred rogers is a comprehensive biography of mister rogers, one of the most beloved (and deserving) pop culture figures in american history.
for over three decades (and some 900+ episodes), mister rogers' neighborhood was the standard-bearer in wholesome children's television programming.covering all aspects of his life (1928-2003), the good neighbor portrays a man devoted to the (physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual) well-being of children.
the world was truly a richer place for having fred rogers a part of it and the good neighbor is a fitting tribute to the man who shaped the lives of so many.
At the heart of this work lies the questions: How did Fred Rogers do it?
How did he create hundreds and hundreds of shows over the course of three decades?
Part of it was his family’s wealth, that allowed him to adopt great patience and perfectionism.
But it was also a lineage of renowned child psychologists, from Doctor Spock to Margaret McFarland, who gave input into many of the challenging subjects that Rogers tackled over the years.
It is inspirational work that King captures.
The Good Neighbor is a solid biography that gives a near-complete look into a great man’s life.
First things first, I listened to the audiobook- which is narrated by LaVar Burton (of Reading Rainbow fame) so that was immediately exciting.Second my biggest complaint has less to do with Roger’s story and more to do with the author of this story.
The drawn out descriptions made it hard to enjoy the rich life of a man who played such an important part in the lives of so many people.
After listening for ten hours, I can’t imagine how I would have felt reading the same thing over again.
I firmly believe that if more people were life Fred Rogers we would live in a very different world.
I have a hard time calling Fred Rogers anything but Mister Rogers, and that speaks to how much of a cultural symbol he has become for anyone who grew up watching his show--it’s difficult to believe that beyond the Neighborhood, there was a real man who had worries and troubles of his own.
King’s loving portrait shines a light on the complexity of Rogers’s life while also revealing that off-camera there was a man just as kind and tender as he appeared on screen.
THE GOOD NEIGHBOR is a biography that is as inspiring as it is fascinating--reading it is like taking a trip back to the Neighborhood, full of make-believe and kindness and gentleness and love.
What a disappointment.5 stars for the subject, 1 star for the writing.
I tried so hard, but did not finish at 40%.This was so repetitive it's not even funny.
It was like a high school term paper that required 1000 words but the student only needed 500 words.
So we get filler.
Repeatedly.
Sometimes the same statement is repeated 3 times in a single chapter with slightly different wording.
I don't need to hear it 4 more times.Rather than having 250 pages of quality material, our author padded this book with unnecessary repetitive drivel to make it 400 pages.
What a great book and a terrific audio recording. Pair LeVar Burton with Mr. Rogers and it's nostalgiafest 2018 (in a good way!). If you grew up watching Mr. Rogers, this is a must read.
Testament of an extraordinary man who was a leading example of kindness and on how to be a more compassionate, helpful and overall better human being. The writing leaves a little something to desire (for me) here and there which is why I gave it 4.5 stars instead of 5. But overall this is definitely one of the better biographies I've read, especially of the ones I read that were published this year. An absolute keeper!
Subject: 5 starsWriting: 3 starsWhen I saw the ARC of this title pop up in Edelweiss, I almost broke my finger hitting the download button, since I had just been talking to my husband about how there weren't any really great biographies of Mister Rogers out there.
I feel like the book accomplished what a biography should, in that I now know much more than I did about how Mister Rogers came to be Mister Rogers -- his life and family and the development of his theories of early childhood education and psychology.
I did finish, but at times it felt like a struggle.
His program was the most successful children’s program on public television due to his vision, commitment and singular ability to talk to children on their level.
He studied child development and worked closely with Dr. Margaret McFarland, an expert in the field, often running scripts by her to make sure the wording was perfect and the meaning would be understood by children.
Who knew this soft spoke, nasally voiced guy would have such a connection with kids.I learned so much about the man behind the cardigan.
The Good Neighbor is a tenderly, written homage to a well-know, yet obscure figure, but subsequently, is far to long and overly repetitive.
This is the wonderful story of a wonderful man. Loved this audiobook and its narration by Levar Burton.
I instantly knew I would love it after only reading a few pages.
It's a treasure and I highly recommend it.
What Mr. Rogers means to me is compassion, love, acceptance, kindness.
It is what I want most for my life...to be considered kind and compassionate.
I think anyone could benefit from reading it and I highly recommend it.
Many thanks to the publisher, Abrams Press, via NetGalley, and Maxwell King for a digital edition to read for review.
For those that like audiobooks, I highly recommend the audio version too.
An enjoyable listen with Levar Burton narrating. While the author sometimes repeats the same story or quote in more than one chapter, overall this is an informative and entertaining biography of a man who's influence is still felt 15 years after his death.
I wish I could have met him, but from the sound of it Mr. Rogers on TV was Mr. Rogers in real life.
Fred Rogers is my hero. He’s kind and gentle and clever and, best of all, he listens. I read this book with trepidation. Would my hero be dethroned? Would this be the story of a person wildly different from the Mister Rogers I adore?I can tell you, happily, that it is not. Every person, without exception, who met Rogers found him to be exactly as he presented himself on television. He wasn’t a saint—-sometimes he lost his temper and he had troubles with his sons when they were teens—-but he was a very good human being. This is his story.
He was never one to want the spotlight, but because of his talents, and his passion for early childhood education, his warm smile, and kind voice made it onto our television screens.
He was an ordained Presbyterian minister; but more than his Christian faith, he was deeply spiritual, and respected all of the other religions.
He deeply respected children and their feelings.
Reading this book gave me hope for the future, and hope for our sense of humanity.
Maybe some of our current leaders need to have a little lesson in kindness, respect and empathy from Mr. Rogers.
A fantastic book about a remarkable human being.
Revisiting the life of one of my childhood heroes, read by one of my other childhood heroes. So comforting.This book was not probably the smoothest written biography in the world, but Fred Rogers' life was so fascinating, and deliciously boring, and cheerful, and good. Such a good man. I can only hope, and try, and learn to be more like him. And at the end of the day, I know he would think I was enough. Just the way I am.Someone TELL ME when the next episode marathon is! I NEED in on this!
This meticulously written biography chronicles Mr. Rogers’s life and career as a pioneering children’s entertainer and educator. He was honest with children in a way they could understand without making them feel small. I sincerely wish I had watched him more as a child. LeVar Burton was the perfect narrator choice, however, due to the book’s pacing, I had to speed up the audio to 1.75x.
Other reviewers on this site complained that the book was repetitive and specifically mentioned that the story of Fred staying in an air conditioned room with a family friend for an entire summer as a kid was mentioned six times.
And as I mentioned in my updates while listening to this book, the author was a bit like a dog on a bone trying to pit the Neighborhood vs Sesame Street.
I do wish the author would've explored why PBS cut back on airing Mr Rogers' Neighborhood in the years after his death.
There are three ways to ultimate success:The first way is to be kind.The second way is to be kind.The third way is to be kind.― Fred RogersOh, that the world had more people like Fred Rogers: a truly gentle man whose life's work was devoted to kindness, authenticity, and deep-seated values.
Musician, linguist, child-development expert, and pastor: Fred Rogers was really quite something.
Ever the INFP, Fred Rogers always held firm in his beliefs that every word muttered in his programming must be considered from a child's perspective, and that children must never be advertised to.
