https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23224.Darkest_Hour
Here's the thing about Mediators:We're hard to kill.  I know it’s been a week since I posted my pre-review and I know I said I would be writing said review a long time ago. But, as it is, I’ve been tired and busy and just completely out of sorts. Sometimes, though, you love a book so much that you can’t stand the thought of not posting your thoughts about it. And, even more surprising, I loved this book so much more than I expected or ever thought I could this time around and just want to push
Each book I re-read cements my love more and makes it crystal clear that my obsession as a middle schooler wasn’t unfounded.
In this installment-which I had completely forgotten about from years ago (the best kind of surprise)-we visit the darker and sadder side to Jesse’s past.
We get more Jesse, we begin to see how he really might feel about Susannah (awwww as he calls her), and it introduces the one (har har-just one, my ass) person that makes Jesse a jelly green giant.
It’s not enough that this story came as a total surprise to me, though that has to be my favorite thing about it.
Re-read 4/27/17: Swooney swoon SWOON. I cannot over here. I'm a swooney mess. Have mercy
THIS BOOK JUST TOOK THIS SERIES TO A WHHOLE NEW LEVEL OMG
And Andy is increasingly more like a dad.I hope we go back to school in the next book because I think I find that setting more fun to read.
(view spoiler)[Generally happy, but still a cliffhanger, not the last book (hide spoiler)]Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[Not really a love triangle.
Suze is in love with Jesse and she’s not sure how he feels about her (they’re not together yet).
(hide spoiler)]Tears-worthy?
(view spoiler)[More emotional than other books, but no tears (hide spoiler)]Humor?
(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]Favorite scenes?
(hide spoiler)]What age level would be appropriate?
เลมนีคือสนุกแบบเวอรวัง สนุกแบบไมลืมหูลืมตา พีคมาก ลุนจนตัวเกรง ถาเทียบกับสามเลมแรกทีเอือยเฉือย อานไปหาวไป เนือเรืองตอนนีจะเขมขนขึนและเขาสูประเดนหลักนันกคือเรืองของเจสซีรวมถึงอดีตของเขา ไหนจะเรืองของพอลอีกละทีเราคิดวาเปนประเดนในเลมตอไปแนๆ เราชอบสตอรรีไลนของเลมนีมาก ตรงทีมันตอเนืองกันไปเรือยๆ รายละเอียดทีกลาวถึงแตละอยางกดูนาสนใจนาจับตองไปหมด ไมเหมือนเลมแรกๆทีเราอานแลวแทบจะปลอยผานไปทันทีเพราะไมคอยมีอะไรนาจดจำมากนัก ยกเวนเลมหนึงทีเราวามันกแมสสำหรับเราอยูนะ สวนเลมสองเลมสามเราคิดวาประเดนมันจืดๆ ดูไมคอ
เล่มนี้คือสนุกแบบเว่อร์วัง สนุกแบบไม่ลืมหูลืมตา พีคมาก ลุ้นจนตัวเกร็ง ถ้าเทียบกับสามเล่มแรกที่เอื่อยเฉื่อย อ่านไปหาวไป เนื้อเรื่องตอนนี้จะเข้มข้นขึ้นและเข้าสู่ประเด็นหลักนั่นก็คือเรื่องของเจสซี่รวมถึงอดีตของเขา ไหนจะเรื่องของพอลอีกล่ะที่เราคิดว่าเป็นประเด็นในเล่มต่อไปแน่ๆ เราชอบสตอร์รี่ไลน์ของเล่มนี้มาก ตรงที่มันต่อเนื่องกันไปเรื่อยๆ รายละเอียดที่กล่าวถึงแต่ละอย่างก็ดูน่าสนใจน่าจับต้องไปหมด ไม่เหมือนเล่มแรกๆที่เราอ่านแล้วแทบจะปล่อยผ่านไปทันทีเพราะไม่ค่อยมีอะไรน่าจดจำมากนัก ยกเว้นเล่มหนึ่งที่เราว่ามันก็แมสสำหรับเราอยู่นะ ส่วนเล่มสองเล่มสามเราคิดว่าประเด็นมันจืดๆ ดูไม่ค่อยน่าสนใจเท่าไรถ้าจะพูดก็พูดเถอะ เราคิดว่าเล่มนี้เป็นเล่มที่เราชอบมากที่สุดในซีรีย์ชุดนี้ เดี๋ยวจะลองดูว่าอีกสองเล่มที่เหลือจะเปลี่ยนใจเราได้มั้ย ฮ่าๆ แต่เราว่า...เนื้อเรื่องมันมาถึงจุดพีคในเล่มนี้แล้วล่ะ ขออย่าให้เล่มหน้าดรอปลงเลยเหอะ ถ้าทุกเล่มเขียนออกมาให้โทนมันคล้ายๆกับเล่มนี้ เราคงจะชอบหนังสือชุดนี้แบบไม่ลืมหูลืมตาแน่นอน(view spoiler)[ซูซานน่าห์โดนผีมาเรีย แฟนเก่าของเจสซี่ขู่ว่าจะฆ่าเธอทิ้งถ้าเธอนำเรื่องของหล่อนไปเปิดเผย ซูซานน่าห์ตามสืบความจริงจนในที่สุดเธอก็รู้ว่ามาเรียรวมหัวกับดีเอโกเพื่อกำจัดเจสซี่ นั่นเป็นเพราะเขายกเลิกงานแต่งงานของหล่อนและทำให้มาเรียต้องอับอายขายหน้า เมื่อศพของเจสซี่ที่ถูกฝังไว้ที่บ้านของซูซานน่าห์ถูกค้นพบ เธอก็รับรู้ถึงความผิดปกติ นั่นก็คือวิญญาณของเจสซี่หายไป และเธอก็ไม่ได้เห็นหน้าเขาอีกเลยนับแต่นั้นซูซานน่าห์รู้แล้วว่าเจสซี่ถูกขับไล่ไปอีกโลกด้วยพิธีกรรมที่มาเรียอยู่เบื้องหลัง หลอกให้แจ็คที่มีความสามารถเหมือนเธอทำพิธี ดังนั้นซูซจึงวางแผนที่จะขับไล่วิญญาณของตัวเองเพื่อตามไปช่วยเจสซี่อีกโลกโดยได้รับความช่วยเหลือที่ไม่ค่อยเต็มใจนักจากคุณพ่อดอมและแจ็ค เมื่อซูซเดินทางไปยังโลกของวิญญาณ เธอได้พบกับเจสซี่อีกครั้งและได้นำเขากลับมากับเธอ พร้อมๆกับที่ส่งมาเรียและดิเอโกไปอีกโลกนึงได้สำเร็จ ในที่สุดเจสซี่ก็ได้จูบซูซานน่าห์ ... (hide spoiler)]
This book took shit to the next level. The series had blurred together in my memory and I couldn’t remember when Paul made an appearance, but I’m so glad he finally did. I’m excited for the drama in the next book!
In the three previous books, it was always according to a model great times - ghost - a boy who wants to have a date with Suze (and is in some relation with that ghost) - ghost is beaten with some consequences to that boy.
(And I mean every word of it in a good way, I enjoyed every single book.) But now, finally, Suze knows how she feels about Jesse, even if she doesn't want to admit it to anybody, and everything is so much clearer.Darkest Hour was epic and I'm really crazy about The Mediator series!
(Unfortunately I discovered it has just 6 books!
I feel like Jack's story won me over, he was such a lovable character and I really felt for him when he was being ignored by his family or when he made mistakes.Jesse and his back story served a much larger part in this book, we finally learn all about his life and I found it very interesting.
Even if she was slightly rash at times I understood why she did certain things.When Suzie enters the inbetween I was suprised to actually enjoy the little details that we were given by Cabot, I have a lot of unanswered questions but I feel that any more description would have been overdone and not believable.
read this in one sitting!i need more of jesseeee!!
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; GhostLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: noCliff Hanger: noRating: 4.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover: 8Plot: 8Characters: 9World Building: 8Flow: 8Series Congruity: 9Writing: 7Ending: 8Total: 8In DeptBest Part: Jack :DWorst Part: Nah!Thoughts Had: Oh no; yayyyyyy; hurry up!!!!!!!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yesShort Review: Probably my favorite so far in this series.
Other than Paul, who is evil, and i kinda want to see if he shows up in the next book so we can see what he has to offer.
The new character Jack is a riot thou, i love him.
I'm excited to get into book 5!
Source: I own a bind up of books 3 and 4 in this series.
Cost: Free gift Title:  Darkest Hour/Young Blood Series:  Mediator #4 Author:  Meg Cabot Overall Rating:  3.7 starsThis one I liked slightly less than the past one, it didn't hold me as much but that may be because of the whole...lack of Jesse thing.
Jesse is definitely one of my favourite characters.
The best thing about Meg Cabot's books though have to be that her main characters sort of take things into their own hands rather than depending than some random boy to fix their issues.
I loved this book!! It had many twists and turns in it that I hadn't expected at all. I'm so glad that the author chose to take the romance slow. I can't stand insta-love so props to Meg for letting the main characters get to know each other well first before actually getting involved romantically. The suspense in this segment was well-written and I'm anxious to get my hands on the next book now!
What happens to our hero (who is a ghost) when his murder is solved? Will he pass over? Our heroine is reluctant to discover his corpse because she wants to keep him around, also his murderer (his ex-fiancee) wants his body to stay buried, too.  I really like this series! A teenage girl who fights ghosts. Maybe thats what all the shadow boxers and karate kickers are doing. They aren’t punching the air, they are fighting ghosts! That makes so much more sense! 🤔👻
The last one might hit some emotional strings for me, but this book does too and has Suze fight probably the most scariest baddies in the series.We also get more backstory on Jesse which is a good thing, because really up until this point the character Jesse needed some (okay, a lot fleshing out).I think this book is what seals the deal for the Juze ship.
To be honest, he is sleazy in this book but the Paul character evolves as the series comes to play.
Suze's stepfather and stepbrothers make a discovery in the backyard putting Suze in danger as she gets an unexpected visit from Maria de Silva.
This book had an interesting storyline but I didn't really enjoy the execution; way too much verbal diarrhea being one reason.
I guess Suze chasing after Jesse in the in-between world and bringing him back was meant to be romantic but instead I got the message that Suze was giving her life away to save a guy who was already 'dead' and it was kind of stupid because what did she expect?
I'm interested in finding out more about Paul in the next book.
In this installment we finally met Paul Slater.
He was all sorts of charming and every bit as cocky as I remember.
I can't wait to see more of him in the next couple books because I know I really liked him but I couldn't remember why in Darkest Hour.
Here's to finding out why in the future!Jake (aka Sleepy) is my favorite of the brothers.
I don't really know why but I have just been adoring him lately.Jesse and Suze are fabulous together as always.
I love them too much.
BUT THAT ENDING.
Need book 5 like yesterday.
Meg Cabot, to end the book like this! Oh, God, Oh, God... I have to rush and read the next one.Jesse querido...I have Buffy in mind sometimes when I read this. Suze is such a kick-ass in that black clothes. And Jesse is Angel <3So that means this Paul Slater will be Spike? No way, but he will come back, I am sure.
One of the best of the series. Reasons include:* Paul is an interesting complication to the Jesse/Suze relationship.* Great finally getting more information on Jesse's background and the reason for his death.* Love the romantic element, Suze leaving her body to bring Jesse back to earth.* More butt kicking and supernatural action. Ticks the boxes for me. :)
Depressed and unwilling to just accept it, she does everything she can to make things right, even if that means risking her life.In the process, she meets yet another mediator who seems to know a lot more than she does about their abilities and manages to (view spoiler)[bring Jesse back (hide spoiler)].Engaging story that was a lot darker than the previous installations of the series and opens up a lot of possibilities for the next books.
Suze and Jesse's story continues in Haunted next.Previous book reviews:✦ Every Girl's Dream (The Mediator, #3.5)✦ Reunion (The Mediator, #3)
Loved Jack and the ending was everything. This was my fave so far finally some Jesse loved it!!
3.5 ✨
You know with this sort of plot that the focus will undoubtedly be all about the Jesse/Suze relationship.
Now is when Suze will not tell anyone what's going on to try and do things on her own; now is when she'll decided she needs to kick some ass and go off on her own; well what do you know that didn't go well; now it's time for a new plan which works, but only sort of; now she's in trouble; final battle; emotional conclusion; new characters written out of story; normalcy restored; the end.It's still enjoyable to read, but it's not hitting that level of enjoyment that I've been waiting for.
But it seems like having a good summer is the least of her problems when the ghost of Maria de Silva Jesse's ex fiance woke her up in the middle of the night with a knife threatening her to stop the construction in their backyard or else it would cost her her life.
First of all, it is her darkest hour because the ghost of Maria paid her a visit and it wasn't because of some unfinished business but to threaten her to stop her step father from digging that hole in their backyard mainly because they would discover Jesse's body there.
My heart!The second half of this series is probably my favorite, I mean I love them all but at this point we are getting a main antagonist in Paul, we're finally getting into Jesse's past, and my OTP took the plunge!
Paul, I love you, but HOW WHY would you just leave your little brother hanging like that for all this time!
It seems like they get along, Jack was so excited when Paul spent the day with him and Suze but at the end of the book when Suze is talking to him about Paul being a mediator too he's all "I don't want to talk about it".
The series follows Suze Simon who has the ability to see, to talk to, and to beat up - whatever the occasion warrants - ghosts in order to send them on their way to the afterworld.
In fact, the Mediator Series reads a lot like those teen serialized TV shows set in small town California that follow a new story each episode, in addition to being easy entertainment to take in.This is my first Meg Cabot read - can you believe it?
And if all of her protagonists are as fun as Suze Simon, then I am looking forward to reading more from her.
I'm curious, which are the Meg Cabot books that I absolutely must read next?
Well, kali ini Suze liburan musim panas.
dan karena ini California, maka pekerjaan untuk musim panas gampang di dapat, dan Suze pun bekerja di salah satu hotel, sebagai babysitter.Babysitter?
lolbut siapa di sangka anak kecil ini punya bakat yang sama dengan Suze.
baca buku 1 gih :Pintinya sih Maria de Silva ini mengancam Suze supaya keluarganya gak terus-terusan ngegali rahasia keluarga de Silva....si kecil asuhan nya Suze yang polos dan tak berdosa itu melakukan kesalahan dengan menjauhkan Suze dari orang yang dia sayang.
well namanya juga anak kecil, apalagi ternyata yang jahat itu si Maria.tapi dengan bantuan Father Dom, yang disayang Suze balik lagi deh :)menarik sih, tapi aku lebih suka yang ke tiga, lebih banyak kocaknya ;D
hmm??HnnnHavent reviwed this earlier either, hey another great aspect with rereading the oportunity to review books I only rated before.Also for some reason the british versions have different names than the american ones, interesting.
The british titles are Love you to death, High stakes, Mean spirits, Young blood, Grave doubts and Heaven sent.
Both sets of titles are good and both work, just curios on why the brits changed them.I hate(minor spoilerPaul.
grrr.Jack is so precious.The summer job setting was fun.
All in all one of the better books of the series, yes book 2 and 3 are good, but this one well it provides more backstory and that ending scene!!
Once again, another amazing book by Cabot. This is the point the series gets seriously good. I'm having so much fun with these rereads.
Gina and Doc, my favorites, are unfortunately MIA. But at least there's Jack, who is such a sweet kid. And can I just say, FINALLY?
this book has got to be the best one so far in this series. its so cute with the little mediator and how sue saves Jesse form being forced to move on. but that Paul guy needs to get some manners.
