https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/819044.Curious_George_Visits_the_Zoo
Curious George goes to the zoo for the first time and there is a lot to see.
After a while he got hungry and found a man with a bucket of bananas.
Once he got there he saw one of the monkeys had taken a kids balloon.
George knew exactly what to do.
He may have caused some problems but he knew how to save the day.
Curious George is a very well know character.
Curious George is also a t.v show so kids can watch him as well.
I think Curious George always gives good messages.
The pictures all look very realistic.
"Curious George Visits the Zoo" by Margret Rey was a cute little story about a silly monkey who went to the zoo.
He saw the zoo keeper with a bucket of bananas after taking the bucket he decided that he should save the day for a little boy.
He gives the bananas to the monkeys so that he can get the balloon back to the little boy.
The illustrations were very clear and clean.
Some of the illustrations look like they are done with water colors while the other ones look like they are done with ink.
This is a book about a monkey named George who wants to go to the zoo.
At the zoo he steals a pail of bananas and then is on his way to hide in the monkey cage when a monkeys steals a little boy’s balloon.
George feeds bananas to the monkeys and retrieves the balloon for the little boy.
I like this book because it follows the predictable Curious George plot line.
George becomes curious about something and then gets into a little bit of a mess but ends up solving a problem.
Synopsis: "Curious George and the man with the yellow hat visit the zoo. A hungry Curious George snatches a pail of bananas from the zoo keeper. Though he shouldn't have taken the bananas, George soon changes the zookeeper's shouts to praise with his clever, helpful ways."My Review: This is a great book to read before or even after a visit to the Zoo. Munchkin enjoyed pointing out the animals that we had scene at the zoo. Of course George is such a classic lovable character that kids will love reading this book about his antics.
JEAR2-Rey
Better than most.First Reading: 11 Mar 2015
Such a cute little book about Curious George visiting the zoo, and getting himself into trouble! I love how Curious George always finds a way to make a bad situation into a good one, while making things better for everyone in the end. The illustrations are wonderful as they show distinct colours of each character in a fun way, which makes it entertaining for both children and adults. I also love the plot, which always ends with Curious George being thanked for his help. Will always love Curious George and his fun adventures, can't wait to read more!
This book is about a monkey named George who visits the zoo. While he is there, he caused some trouble.I love Curious George books. The text is pretty easy, the pictures are simple but colorful, and the stories are always funny. Children like them because they know he's doing things he's not supposed to be doing in a way that is funny and not scary.(Picture Book)
This book was worth revisiting because "Curious George" is an adorable series of stories I really enjoyed as a kid.
George goes to the zoo and see many different kinds of animals
Curious George visits the zoo was another book that I remember from my childhood that was funny, entertaining and educational.
This book shows many different animals, and even shows some of the kids some cool facts about them.
For example, the book states "I see the giraffes, too.
Their tall necks help them eat leaves from the tree-tops." The only reason that I didn't give this book five stars is because of the fact that George, yet again, goes against the rules without any consequences.
This is a bit of a bad theme in the books.
Overall, it is a very entertaining and educating book.
This is a book about a monkey named George who wants to go to the zoo.
At the zoo he steals a pail of bananas and then is on his way to hide in the monkey cage when a monkeys steals a little boy’s balloon.
George feeds bananas to the monkeys and retrieves the balloon for the little boy.
I like this book because it follows the predictable Curious George plot line.
George becomes curious about something and then gets into a little bit of a mess but ends up solving a problem.
I don't like the premise of the original Curious George story, but I do like the stories that have come out of that premise.
Before I started reading the book, I was afraid that George would end up in the monkey cage.
He doesn't, and he even helps out a little boy who lost his balloon to the monkeys.
My five-year-old son has no problem with Curious George.
He sees George as a five-year-old boy who is really good at climbing.
And that is why the stories work.The illustrations, even in the first Curious George book, are absolute perfection.
George and the man in the yellow hat are going to a zoo.
They are supposed to stay in the cars, but George loses his balance and falls out.
He dances and attracts the attention of the baby rhino.
The zookeeper was going to kick George and his human out of the zoo, but because he found the baby rhino, who had been separated from her mother, the zookeeper allowed George and his human to stay.
I really thought the conflict would be that George wasn't allowed to leave the zoo because they took him for one of the other animals.
This is a classic children's book.My children loved the Curious George series.This book teaches chil
My son loves George and zoo animals, so this book was great for him. What I don't like about this book (and most Curious George books) is that the message to children is a little skewed. In this book, George steals something that isn't his and tries to hide, but because he did a separate, unrelated good deed, he never received consequences for his original, negative act. This happens in almost every book about George. Of course these books are just fun, but kids learn patterns and ideas from the content in the books they read.
In this book, Curious George decides to visit the zoo. This zoo wasn’t an ordinary zoo, however. In this zoo, all of the animals were able to freely roam wherever they wanted to. Being a monkey, Curious George finds it necessary to join the other animals and have a little fun with them. George finds new friends and eventually helps a Rhino who is very sad on his birthday. George brought the Rhino out to hang out with the other animals and they have a good time. Curious George saved the day and made the Rhinos birthday a special one.
I bought this book, and it came with a Kangaroo. My daughter was so excited to have a new book, and a friend to listen with her. I love the size of. the books, great for 8 month old daughter and her attention span. The illistrations are wonderful, lots of different things to point out while reading.my daughter who loved that George is ornery, but saves the day. All in all we love it and have read it a few times.
I had never read the Curious George books. This was a very cute story. Very vibrant illustrations. Especially of the man in the yellow hat;) I find him very interesting, he who is not named;) I found 3 different Curious George books that are currently being sold at the Kohls closest to me, for the Kohls Cares program. The books are hardcover and are $5.00 each.
Curious George is always a favorite! I used this when my kindergarten class was focusing on the letter z for the week. I also tied in their recent lesson on living and non-living things. They can also enjoy movement if you have them move or make noises like the animals in the story. They can then write a story about a trip to the zoo and different animals they see along the way.
This naughty little monkey always seems to get rewarded even though he breaks the rules. I don't understand. I love trips to the zoo, but unruly monkey-children need to learn lessons about respect. I guess I'm just not a fan of Curious George. On a happy note, the pictures were cheerful and the few animal facts at the end were interesting.
Lexile 530George and the man with the yellow hat are the main characters.The story takes place in the zoo where George ends up saving a little boys balloon. Even though it was bad that he stole a pail of bananas because he was hungry, he did up helping someone out. it is a good book to read with the kids and has good pictures. Overall, a good classic book to read.
The little monkey and his companion, the man with the yellow hat, goes to the zoo and looks at all the different animals who call it home. And of course Curious George will get into trouble along the way.
. This was a good bed time story for my granddaughters. I enjoyed reading and the enjoyed listening. Curious George is always a good read for the granddaughters since they watch him on television also
This book truly introduces great story telling to children. It has a clear climax and ending, which is great, and gets children excited for visitin the zoo. What I love most about this book, however, is that it shows how it is good for us to do good deeds and help others.
Curious George and the man in the yellow hat go on a visit to the zoo. George steals a pail of bananas and the zookeeper becomes very upset with him. However, George is quickly able to help out and save the day for the zoo.
Not quite as good as other Curious George books - I like the ones adapted from the animated series less, in fact. This story is a bit contrived and not nearly as exciting as a visit to the zoo could/should be.
As curious as George may seem, he always finds his way to be adventurous, hence his name. In this book, he helps a little boy get his balloon back and "saves the day." It teaches children how to be friendly to others.
George and the man in the yellow hat go to the zoo, where George snatches a bucket of banana's. He knows he shouldn't have done it, but ends up getting the zoo keeper to praise him through his clever ways.
Good book for all agesThe book not only tells a story it also explains somethings about the animals. It just long enough to keep a 2 year-old interested. Good book for anyone who likes Curious George.
