https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251519.Good_Grief
I read this about a month after my husband died, and I remember thinking at the time how amazing it was that someone absolutely GOT so many of the crazy things that were going through my head.
Some of the descriptions of grief and the crazy things you think, feel, and do are absolutely spot on...but after about halfway through the book it just traipses off into la-la, fantasy land.
For trying to describe grief and all its insanity, the author does an amazing job, but it's obvious that she is NOT a widow and is simply imagining what a "happy" ending might be like.
I am filled up with so much love for this book. I wonder if it's visible, like a big red cartoon heart over my head?It may be a case of the right book, at the right time. What an honest, raw depiction of an all encompassing loss. The ending was sort of sudden, but it's okay. I loved it all the same.
We can learn to 'let go' and trust the future, Come What May. It's like if we have one hand in yesterday and one in tomorrow then our today is crucified.I enjoyed the way this author could make me laugh at myself as I related to the protagonist grief process and even how she interwove the other character's 'changes' in life.
Even if we are plagued by 'memory loss' and 'sickness' it doesn't mean that we can't enjoy our life the way it is.Thanks for such a wonderful novel...this story was full of wonderful surprises and I was honored to travel the road with these characters!
Simpatično napisana teška tema.. Bilo bi super da iz tugovanja svi dobijemo peticu, kao i glavna protagonistica! ;-)
Good Grief was on a bookshelf at my job last winter and I picked it up, read the first few chapters, and loved it.
When Sophie decides to up and leave her town and move across the country with her recently-separated friend, I thought, okay, cool.
Winston does an incredible job telling us what it's like to be a young widower.
The little details she puts here and there, the things that a widower won't notice is missing until it happens, are touching.
I think Winston just doesn't know her style well enough yet.
Hopefully the next book she puts out won't feel like that.
For weeks on end.Finally she makes a move across the country in an attempt to jar herself out of this breakdown.
Things go on from there but I'll keep mum because I don't want to give away the whole book.Sophie takes in a "Little Sister" (a child in need who she sees once a week to talk to and spend time with) named Crystal.
I'd like to adopt this approach.Sophie, your husband died."WhatEVER."And you're fired."As if I even LIKED that job."And you're depleting your savings with no means of income in sight."That is SO not a problem.
I picked up this paperback not expecting too much more than some light fluff for my vacation.
I was pleasantly surprised that it turned out to be such a good story.It is about a woman recently widowed and how she copes with her grief and rebuilds her life.
I thought the author did a good job showing her grief and how there is humour in the sadness.
This author is really funny but real and I enjoyed the story despite the sad subject.
I plan on sharing it with a friend who lost her husband at a young age as I think she would get a lot out of it.
A quick read; funny, likable protagonist but the plot is a little too pat. Devastated widow leaves old life behind. Sells house, moves to Oregon, opens a bakery, joins the Big Sister organization and finds that by helping others she helps herself - Amen. P.S. She also immediately finds a handsome, hot, helpful straight guy who wants to marry her. Maybe this should be shelved under fantasy.
Read this one on audiobook, and found it totally charming.
I chose it mainly because it was one of the few audiobooks in the sorry rural Arkansas library collection that I hadn't read, and my expectations were low.
The evil librarian said, "That's a good book." when I checked it out.
(I used to really hate people commenting on my book, video or grocery choices after I moved to Arkansas, but it's a fact of life here, and I've gotten used to it--although I still hate it when it comes from the evil librarians.) Irritating as it was, the old bag was right.
This is an amazingly well-written book for a first novel.
I was torn between giving it a 3 or a 4.
On the basis of the writing, it deserves a 4.
The only reason that I didn't "really, really like it" was because the subject matter, while realistically presented, was so painful.
This book is about the first year of a young woman's widowhood, and by necessity the first half is about her agony, grief and depression.
In the second half, she starts the healing process and develops ways to cope and move onward with her life, and that part is inspiring.
This is a funny and heartwarming book about a young woman's fight to build a new life after the death of her husband.
Sophie Stanton is in her mid thirties and loses her young husband to cancer.
In an age where women are expected to be high-achievers, Sophie desperately wants to be a good widow but things don't turn out that way as she is not the sterotypical type.
Instead of the way one would think things turned out, the opposite happens and Sophie ends up learning a lot about life and others to include her lover and a young teenage girl she takes under her arm.
Lolly Winston has a wonderful way of developing characters.
Most people might disagree with this assessment, but I have worked around people that have lost loved ones and they were not as "put together" 10 years later as this character was less than one year later.
Granted, the circumstances of death were much different and I wonder if that has something to do with it, but I found a part of me not wanting the happy ending that I got.
I logged in this book a few days before writing this review, and found I missed the characters, their ins and outs, the folks they met along the way so much, I upgraded !This is a glimpse into grief, and how differently it is handled.
The central character, Sophie Stanton, is widowed very young losing her husband to cancer after three years of marriage.
The Parts are divided into sub-parts which are the stages of grief and how Sophie deals with these stages.
I love Sophie Stanton and I want her recipes !" Audrey NiffeneggerIt should become a movie !
I read this book in what basically turned out to be a sick day, lolling on my couch.
Normally, books about widowhood make me very nervous, because it is one of my biggest fears to think about life without javaczuk.
But at Rebekkila's urging, I read this, and found it to be in the upper end of chick lit, with some believable characters, touching not only on grief, but issues of trust, and some other societal ills, with grace and sensitivity -- an humor.
Thank goodness it didn't have the gay best friend, though it did have the life saving bakery come into the story.All in all, it was a good companion on a rainy spring day.Gentlemen, start your hairdryers...
As I read this book I found myself alternately giggling or holding back tears, and nodding my head in agreement; uh huh, I've done that myself (wearing Kelly's clothes, being angry because he's not here, wanting to pull the covers over my head, etc.) The story is engaging, the author has a light touch, but it seemed almost too trivial in places,or perhaps contrived would be a better description, like the author is making sure all of the "steps of grieving" are included in the book.
If it was a movie, it would most likely be rated PG-13.
I am currently reading this book. It was given to me right after my husband died and I couldn't bear to open it. I now can't put it down. I can't believe how much of the book feels exactly like me! I would recommend this book to anyone who has lost their husband and to their friends so they can understand what they are going through.
I thought this was beautifully written. It was funny as well as touching. I felt sad for the character because I have seen first hand someone close to me deal with how hard it is to live after a loved one has passed on. Lovely story. I will be reading more from this author.
Onvan : Good Grief - Nevisande : Lolly Winston - ISBN : 446694843 - ISBN13 : 9780446694841 - Dar 357 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2004
Loved, loved, loved this book! Highly recommend it !

I admit that one of the reasons I passed over this book so many times is because I figured it would be depressing, all about death/dying, or too much of a chick-lit-book, or maybe just not very interesting.
Well, sure, there was a bit about death and dying, but the author finds a realistic way of looking at how people tend to deal with grief over the death of a loved one, even showing the humorous side of some of the things grieving people may find themselves doing.
And it definitely was not a chick-lit-book – it was just a story about people and life.
I wonder why the author decided to leave the name out of the story?Regardless, this book was very enjoyable overall.
However, my opinionated parents encouraged me to try different types of books.
And along came my good-humored neighbor and told my mother to read this book.
My mother then tossed the book to me and said I should give it a try.So, I started reading it and couldn't connect.
And sure as hell I wasn't married back then, not even had a boyfriend.
But who am I to judge?Then came along the fire-maniac thirteen year old girl.
Nor with the movie star- then boyfriend.Well, this book gave me something to understand about myself.
I didn't expect much from it, it seemed like 'chick lit does widowhood.' But I'm so glad I read it because it was just wonderful.Sophie Stanton is a 36 year old woman who is widowed after 3 years of marriage.
I'm sure Joan Didion would have a stroke if she saw herself compared to Lolly Winston, but this book reminded me so much of "The Year of Magical Thinking." This is a less literate, less serious, more accessible and, yes, humor filled looked at a woman who has recently been widowed.
Completely different looks at the same premise.I think the resolution of some of the plots was a bit too facile but I so enjoyed the majority of this book.
I would have given this book only 3 stars if it hadn't made me laugh so much and right out loud.
The story is told with so much insight and humor that you fall in love with Sopie the widow.
Alas, she is more of the Jack Daniels kind - self-medicating with icecream and having break downs at the market.
She breaks your heart as you see how she falls apart, but she always tells the story with so much humor that you have to laugh out loud.
I cried, cheered and laughed my way through this book.
This novel tells of a widow who struggles to regain some measure of normalcy (with varying degrees of success).
This novel balances the protagonist's hardships with many doses of humor, both wry and slapstick, and it delivers plenty of laughs.
Although the book describes situations that are less-than-ideal -- that are tragic in many ways -- the book itself is neither depressing nor despairing.
It simply tells the tale of a woman who, like any woman, is just trying to cope, and who finds sorrow, joy, and hilarity along the way.
On bookcrossing I wrote on Saturday, March 17, 20077 out of 10 Well I guess i am one of few who wasn't so thrilled with this book.
Maybe because I thought it would be a chick lit book.
On amazon I see all the reviews talking about all the humour in the book.
This book made me sad at the start and after awhile I was just bored.
Anyways I still thank you for sending this to me Ant. I will see if I can find someone who will appreciate this book more than I did.
What a pleasant surprise Lolly Winston's story turned out to be. Despite the heartbreaking and painful subject matter, the narrative is light, witty, with some really funny moments there.More than Sophie's tough times battling depression after losing her husband of 3 years to cancer, the story has a good dose of compassion, friendship and companionship... with yummy-for-my-tummy cheesecakes and cookies thrown into the mix.
This was a really good read, a perfect balance between deep emotions and light-heartedness. I loved how realistic the characters seemed, and I particularly loved Sophie's relationship with the young girl. The only iffy part for me was that she started a new romance within the year. Maybe its because I've been married so long... but I cannot imagine starting a new romance that quickly. Nonetheless, it was a perfect summer read that left me smiling.
This was my second time reading this book. I enjoyed it better the first time. Would give it a 3.5. Worthy read. Character loses husband to cancer & struggles through the first year of grief. Very touching & quirky insight into grief
Re-read this fabulous novel this weekend, as a way to treat myself. It is alternately funny, disarming, and insightful. One of my favorites.
