https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11859107-in-another-country
A sad story about soldiers who have lost parts of their bodies and pieces of their hearts to war. If you pick up a Hemingway book, you have a 75% chance it will feature war and bloodshed and the consequences of battle. Despite the repetitive subject matter, in stories like these, Hemingway captures the emotional pain that comes from loss after war, even if just for a moment. Six more Hemingway reviews to go, Goodreads friends. Six more.
Oh mio dio! che era circa lingua italiana! Infatti, amo la lingua italiana troppo. e per me, è una bellissima e una carina lingua:)
Twice the story repeats it: there was always the war but the narrator and his colleagues (who had fought in it) were not going to that war anymore.They had cheated death, but were injured. One of them, a major, had a wife who had not been able to escape what should have been his fate: death. A death so sudden, and unexpected, that the pain it brought proved to be greater than what the war had inflicted on him.
Our narrator never questions the doctor’s words, or speaks with any sort of negativity toward the loss of his leg, he simply accepts his predicament and moves on.
He admits the difficulty of his wife’s passing, but says to his compatriot “I cannot resign myself.” Hemingway showed the Major as being a leader of men, one who inspired those around him, as it was his insistence that his friend’s grammatical errors in speaking Italian were so egregious that forced the narrator to improve himself.
Hemingway uses the final paragraphs of his story to show that while strong men can be affected by tragedy, as the Major clearly is, they cannot succumb to it without losing themselves entirely.
The war had a large emotional toll on some of the characters.
The story included a lot of imagery about the city of Milan and I think that helped the reader get drawn in.
I definitely wasn’t expecting to read anything about a war, but it was pretty good overall.
Ernest had to go to the hospital everyday to get stretched out by machines along with many of his friends.
Every once in awhile, their sergeant had to come in to the hospital as well.
This story could appeal to either gender as it has a part about war and a part about emotions.
" خوش حالي مجارستانِ پيش از جنگه و تو كنت كارولي هستي."
In this story and some others in Hemingway's collection, the writer depicts fragmented relationships between couples as fragmented. Although I don't like the detailed descriptions in his writing style, the subjects are usually interesting.
ما اولین کسانی بودیم که از این دستگاهها استفاده می کردیم . دکترها به ما قول داده بودند که با استفاده از این دستگاهها همه سلامتی خود را باز می یابیم . سرهنگ با این حال به این حرف ها توجهی نداشت و از پنجره به بیرون خیره مانده بود . فقط یه عشق نافرجام میتونه یه همچین بلایی سر آدم بیاره .
ما اولین کسانی بودیم که از این دستگاهها استفاده می کردیم . دکترها به ما قول داده بودند که با استفاده از این دستگاهها همه سلامتی خود را باز می یابیم . سرهنگ با این حال به این حرف ها توجهی نداشت و از پنجره به بیرون خیره مانده بود . فقط یه عشق نافرجام می‌تونه یه همچین بلایی سر آدم بیاره .
I suppose the objective was just to talk about an episode in his life, and that's all he did. However, his writing style is clear and concise, so I enjoyed that.
The story was told from the side of the wounded American soldier who was in an Italian hospital.
The narrator stayed good friends with the boy who had been wounded his first day at the front.
This boy could never be accepted either and the author felt more comfortable with him.The narrator spent much time with another patient; the major whose hand was severely wounded.
The major dedicated his time to correcting the grammar of the Italian language which the author was studying.
After that, the language became so difficult for the narrator that he was afraid to speak with the major until he had learned the grammar.
Read in The Snows of Kilimanjaro, and Other Stories.Synopsis: A soldier is in the hospital to treat his injuries. He recalls other military men he was friends with during his time in service.A moving story about a man's war experience, and how it impacted his and his friend's lives.
Well written. Another writer who powerfully captures a lot in eight pages. I always thought the other "Country" in the title refers to the completely other state of mind the events that take place puts the soldiers in. With his writing skill, Hemingway puts readers in that state of mind, in that other world. For that reason, I rate in highly.
This short story was very interesting when analyzed. It goes nicely with Hemingway's theme of grandeur becoming limp and dead.Major motifs:-light and dark-cold and warm (women are warm)-strong and weak (grand and diminished--especially with all the childish references to great men)-parallels (limp animals and limp hands)-war personified-nature as supreme
A fairly short text but moving in many ways and curious in it's descriptions - original to it's very bones.
This is one of my favorite short stories. So sparse, so true to life. Sometimes the first line just pops into my head.
I truly loved this story. Even though it was short, its theme of loss and injury really stuck with me after reading it, but not in a sad way.
Just a glimpse at more loss and injury and the pains of war, but so well written.
