https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10140661-gabriel-s-inferno
A horse?“Don’t cry, little Rabbit.” Um, Paul is a total creep.“But Julia didn’t want to be keyed.” And then a few paragraphs down.
Sweetheart, don’t listen to that kind of music anymore, okay?” She sounds like my mother when I was a teenager.“The other photo took Julia’s breath away, for it was the most overtly erotic, and she was instantly repulsed by its rawness and aggression…Julia was disturbed by the photo,” but not so much that she didn't stop to describe it in full detail, “and immediately looked away in embarrassment.” Methinks something wicked this way comes and she’s in total denial of it.kemfn: I still can’t find a translation for this word.
2.5 stars I'm almost afraid to write a review, because this book is apparently universally loved ... and I definitely - obviously - did not feel the same way. I was so looking forward to the book and love pairings of a dark and tortured hero with a sweet and innocent heroine. Reynard definitely delivered on that last count - far, far too much: Julia was put up on a pedestal - and for reasons that I'm not sure warrant her being put there - and everything else was evil and dark and sinful.{ Prais
Reynard definitely delivered on that last count - far, far too much: Julia was put up on a pedestal - and for reasons that I'm not sure warrant her being put there - and everything else was evil and dark and sinful.{ Praise }Gabriel was a very interesting character and for the first ~2/3 of the book I really liked him.
And before he got far too sickly sweet (see #5 below) I loved how tender and caring Gabriel was with her.{ General Criticism }I'm going to get these things out of the way, because the rest is all about my main issue with the book:
Wow! Loved it. I cannot believe this was written by a man. And that last scene? Phew! HOT! That's all I've got. The rest has already been said. But, if you like hot, angsty, possessive men, you'll love this one!6/7/2012 Edited to add: Oh my word! I have found my Gabriel. Hello, Love!http://25.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lvo...
Some notable quotes and passages are : (In 23 year old Julia’s memory from a long time ago (which makes her underage probably), when he took her to the forest after beating up his family) “He brought his head closer to her’s.
When an older man takes a young girl to a forest after beating up his family, asks her if “she’s ever kissed/held hands with/done anything with a boy”, then molests her so that he can be “her first”, that is TOTALLY HAWT AND ROMANTIC YOU GUYS.
No literally, if you read Dante's Inferno for Dummies you will walk away with a better comprehension of that classic work than the author of this humongous joke of a novel.The sad part is the author is skilled at manipulating readers into believing that a story about a young college coed being mentally, emotionally and intellectually manipulated by her professors is sexually arousing, and laughably romantic.
It would be refreshing to read a book with literary themes that didn't show a female heroine who has to use her vagina to win love and respect from her male counterpart, but alas Gabriel's Inferno is not it.
Re-read of Gabriel’s InfernoAudiobook Professor Emerson... you’ve stolen my heart once again! I think this re-read made me love this book even more than the first time I read it. Gabriel’s Inferno is one of the most beautiful and well written romances I have ever read. I can’t wait to do a re-read of book 2 and am anxiously awaiting the release of the third!      “When I am an old man and I can remember nothing else, I will remember this moment. The first time my eyes beheld an angel in the fles
I think this re-read made me love this book even more than the first time I read it.
Gabriel’s Inferno is one of the most beautiful and well written romances I have ever read.
“I will remember your body and your eyes, your beautiful face and breasts, your curves and this.” He traced his hand around her navel before dragging it lightly to the top of her lower curls.
“I will remember your scent and your touch and how it felt to love you.
But most of all, I will remember how it felt to gaze at true beauty, both inside and out.
This way, I had a feeling that I was reading the same thing over and over again – every encounter between Gabriel and Julia looked almost exactly the same like the previous one.
On the other hand, she is pure, naive, caring, nice, shy and innocent (this one was repeated so many times it made me nausious).
Gabriel did that all the time, he was like ''I am dark, and not good enough for you.
Actually, I would like to read a book about that and ONLY about that, becouse while describing some pieces of art he managed to show his talent somewhere in between all that crap with Gabriel and Julia.
★★★★★! Gabriel’s Inferno, book 1 of 3. Professor Gabriel Emerson’s courtly seduction of his chaste student Julia!   “Then I’m glad I’m your first.”   Books in Gabriel’s Inferno trilogy should be read in order:Book 1: Gabriel’s InfernoBook 2: Gabriel’s RaptureBook 3: Gabriel’s RedemptionGabriel’s Inferno, book 1 opens up with Professor Gabriel O. Emerson, Dante specialist for the Department of Italian Studies at the University of Toronto giving a seminar. MA Grad student Julianne Mitchell, Jul
Professor Gabriel Emerson’s courtly seduction of his chaste student Julia!
Set against the backdrop of Dante’s Devine Comedy the Gabriel’s Inferno trilogy is rich on symbolism, depth, history and divine message.
The ingenuity of using Dante’s journey in professors Emerson’s lectures, life lessons, experiences and parallels that can clearly be drawn between Dante – Gabriel, who after having moved through hell meets up with his Beatrice – Julia, to be guided from hell to ultimately enter paradise.
And just like Beatrice came to guide Dante to paradise Julianne Mitchell, Julia has come to rescue Gabriel.
Unforgettable and swoon-worthy professor Gabriel Emerson!
Lovely! Especially loved their backstory.
*5 Stars* (edited review)The reread is even sweeter...It has been said that no two persons ever read the same book.
Each reread holds a different experience; a separate opportunity to view the story in a new light, this time with pockets full of insight.
It offers a cast of genuinely complex and intriguing characters, and has introduced me to one of my favorite fictional couples to date: Gabriel and Julia.
Gabriel is Julia's professor in her Dante seminar, and this is where the forbidden element arises.
This book draws inspiration from the passionate love story of historical figures Dante and Beatrice, offering a modern day spin that is simply stunning.
I have a passion for teacher and student love stories, and this is by faaaaar the most delicious and intriguing book I have ever read upon this subject.
It is very well kept together by it and supports the action and the love story of the heroes.
It was well documented, with a strong base and not a word in it was unnecessary.In a few words, this series was it for me, having every ingredient to keep on reading and connect with my heroes at a deep emotional level.5 stars and keep on counting!!For more reviews please check https://readwithloveblog.wordpress.com
Update 2: Awesome news from Passionflix! 😍😍😍https://www.instagram.com/p/BlD1BU4A6...-------------Update 1: OMG my lovely GR friends. Please look at what Sylvain Reynard just shared. :) Ahhh I'm soooo happy right now. :D Announcement:My film and television rights are now represented by Alice Lawson of the Gersh Agency. What this means is that Alice has generously taken up the helm with the #GabrielsInferno series in an effort to bring a movie or series to life. Wish her luck, #SRFans! BEST.NEWS.E
Update 2: Awesome news from Passionflix!
😍😍😍https://www.instagram.com/p/BlD1BU4A6...-------------Update 1: OMG my lovely GR friends.
Please look at what Sylvain Reynard just shared.
:) Ahhh I'm soooo happy right now.
Announcement:My film and television rights are now represented by Alice Lawson of the Gersh Agency.
What this means is that Alice has generously taken up the helm with the #GabrielsInferno series in an effort to bring a movie or series to life.
Wish her luck, #SRFans!
BEST.NEWS.EVER!!!---------------------------Everyone should meet the Professor!
He's smart, sexy and so romantic!
I love him so much and this book is one of my favorites now.
"You are a only a magnet for mishap, Miss Mitchell, while I am a magnet for sin."  4 I Burn for You Stars!There are three things I loved the most about this book:Gabriel EmersonGabriel Emersonand GABRIEL EMERSONGabriel Emerson aside, I loved all the things about this book. I was pulled in the moment I started reading it because of Sylvain Reynard's unique and captivating writing. The storyline, although you can call it cliché, is usually the kind of story that holds my interest. Forbidden st
There was a slow build-up of the plot and the romantic development here, but I thought it was a good thing.
Julia and Gabriel's romantic development gave me goosebumps.
The dialogues in this book were also charming.
I cannot properly formulate a thought on how I enjoyed the way Julia and Gabriel had deep conversations and how they connected Dante's The Divine Comedy to their own story (Although I honestly don't have the knowledge about The Divine Comedy lol).
I thoroughly enjoyed the way the story climbed as a whole.
It's in his kiss, pure and simple.I had no idea a man wrote this book until after I started reading it.
Gabriel, on the other hand, takes one look into her eyes and knows he's seen them before but can't quite place where...he thought they were eyes of an angel who rescued him once long ago.Gabriel, at first, is a very dark and angry man, lashing out at Julia in the beginning of this novel a few times.
Because of this rule, Gabriel must keep a professional relationship with Julia, though he is becoming more and more attracted to her which is making it difficult to fight his feelings for her.
I was like, “A professor and a student version of Fifty Shades of Grey, eh?” Pass.And then I did read it.
____________________________________________ “… Miss Mitchell?” Professor Gabriel Emerson’s voice carried across the seminar room to the attractive brown-eyed young woman who was seated at the back.
And he tries like hell to stay far, far away from it because he knows that he’s surrounded by sin and she’s enveloped by everything… good.
This is a book that’s going to have you tearing through its pages like it’s a 20-page picture book.
I had the privilege of reading an unpublished version of this book. I fell completely in love with this story, which became my reading addiction for nearly a year. I was there for every chapter update and would obsessively think about the characters in the interim. I fangirled the author, and became a complete freak over this story. I would STRONGLY suggest this book to any of my friends. It's an incredible love story. 5 stars.
My Julia and Gabriel:Wow!
This is a phenomenal book!Gabriel's Inferno is the best story about forbidden love I have ever read.
They have their ups and downs, fears and dreams, past issues and hopes for future.
Reading Gabriel's Inferno was really a fulfilling experience!
Main female character, Julia, is kind, sweet, smart and reincarnation of pure goodness.
He may have a dark past and intense personality, but he is a true gentleman and he knows how to spoil a woman.
I felt so much compassion for all characters, not just for Julia and Gabriel.
There were characters in the story that I detested for reasons the reader will understand when they pick up this amazing read.
I always give little quotes here and there for most of my reviews and I will do it for this one as well, because the words were amazing, colorful, powerful, and most definitely seductive in a way that has the reader pulled into the story, living all the emotions that Julia lived through as well as the destructive and tormented nature of Gabriel.
Professor and Student, Idolized Love and Dream, Awakens a powerful story that is Gabriel and Julia.
This book is just too long, it would have got 3 stars from me if it was atleast 100 pages shorter. The anoying thing is the main female character, Julia. She spends 2/3 of the book staring at her feet because she's so shy. Not much happening in the book, mostly Gabriel and Julia talking about the same stuff over and over again. Although, there are some very nice and emotional scenes, that's why I gave it 2 stars :)
A sexy professor embraces in a dangerous affair with his beautiful student.MOVe OVER CHRISTIAN GREY.
The way it started, the way it grows, the way it blossoms...I love that Gabriel was such an ass towards Julia, his poor student, at first.
It is amazing really how many times I can read this and still want more and more.
This is not one of your typical romance books, boy meet girl, they fall in love, get married, have kids - this is a much more complicated novel with a lot of drama and suprising twists.I can´t recommend it enough.
After reading this for the fourth time, I began to see the heroine, Julia, in an entirely different light.
To me they felt like real people; like people I could know, not some contrived character created to do amazing and astounding things as often seen in the popular literature.
They experience true pain and hurt, but they also are capable of receiving and giving love, even for feeling hope.
I felt a closeness and connection with these characters that has me longing to learn more about them and where their journey will take them into the sequel.
And of course, I must add that the presence of a snarky narrator kept a constant smile upon my face.Beautiful, touching and enchanting writing – this book deserves to be read and enjoyed.
Wise men say only fools rush in...But I can't help falling in love with you.......Oh gods of wonderful books and voracious readers and all that is love and true and holy, thank you for the existence of this book!One of the best romance stories I've read this year....one of the most sensual stories I've ever come across...I'm going to create a special category for this book...One-of-the-best-romances-with-the-best-kisses-and-wonderful-sensuality-and-story-that-left-me-sighing-endlessly-my-favourite-kind-of-romance-surprisingly-written-by-a-man (Surprising not because I think that a man can't write such a story, surprising because I'd never come across such a story written by a man before this one :D).....
He embodied all the seven deadly sins....especially lust...She was the brown-eyed angel....filled with the seven virtues...especially chastity..He was the Darkness...She was his light....He was in Hell...And she.....his Paradise...He was her Dante...And she his Beatrice..."You could have any woman you want, Gabriel."He furrowed his eyebrows.
I see the appeal of GI and had I read it say 5 years ago I would, at the very least, have finished reading it.However, the forbidden teacher-student, OTT rich alpha male-virgin female trope, has become so boring and redundant. It doesn't help that this- with its copious allusions to Dante and Frodo blah blah- is just too pretentious for my taste. DNF @ 50%
So more's the pity for the route that the story took...Now, on the review, the beginning of this story had me a little scared...and i don't scare easily, but for the first pages it looked like i was going to read another "fifty shades of grey", luckily without the sex....Julianne is this annoying character who throughout the entire book is portrayed as....a very irritating, constantly blushing and biting her lip, always looking in the direction of her shoes, perfect, beautiful, full of compassion and virtue....saint!!!!Oh, and on this one, we have "gods" instead of "goddesses": "She silently thanked the Gods of Graduate students for coming to her aid..just in case"(pg 17)But on a far lesser scale.She's twenty three years old and she's shy....oh that's so sweet!
"Tell me that you want me, or get out."Redemption, forgiveness, and love, love, love.
It's about personal redemption and the human condition.
The author's profile states:"I'm interested in the way literature can help us explore aspects of the human condition - particularly suffering, sex, love, faith, and redemption.
In my writing, I combine all of these elements with the themes of redemption, forgiveness, and the transformative power of goodness."This is why I fell in love with this book and the author's work--this is a writer after my own heart.
If you want a smart romance with real substance, this is well worth your time.
You’re only a magnet for mishap, Miss Mitchell, while I am a magnet for sin.”His kiss was passionate and full of emotion, as if every fiber of his being had melted and spread itself on his lips only to be given to her.“Do you have to leave?” she whispered back, running her hands hesitantly over his chest, up and down and back and forth.“Yes, but not tonight.”“Will you come back?” Her voice was almost a whimper.Gabriel sighed deeply.
(It was a good thing that in her current mood she was swoon-proof.)Julia let go of him instantly and backed up, averting her eyes, for in truth, looking into the radiance of that smile was like staring into the sun.“Angelfucker.”She frowned.
It's time to meet the professor ....let me get my visuals ❤❤❤
THIS IS BLOODY FUCKING TWILIGHT FAN FICTION. NO DEAL WITH THE GOD DAMN DEVIL CHANGES THAT.
5 Surprisingly Amazing Stars!  Julia and Gabriel shared a beautifully innocent night almost a few years ago in the woods behind his parents house. Neither of them forgot it and neither and they didn’t saw each other or heard anything about each trough the following years. Now, six years late they met each other again: only now she is a graduate student and he is the Dante’s Specialist professor. So, yes, their relationship is completely forbidden. But that isn’t the worst of them all, Gabriel is
Julia and Gabriel shared a beautifully innocent night almost a few years ago in the woods behind his parents house.
But that isn’t the worst of them all, Gabriel is a broken man with an even more broken past and he as much as he tries he can’t expurgate his ghosts.
So he seeks refuge in dark vices, so when Julia’s kindness hits him he doesn’t know how to deal with it.
There are too much secrets, too much darkness and a lot to overcome between these two, so their road isn’t definitely going to be an easy one.
The author tried to create an innocent virgin woman and instead I felt like I was reading about a pre-teen girl.
She even expected that the hero after only one night and years without seeing each other would remember her and tell her he loved her (wth?).
I do hope the sequel will be better.HERO type is not defined, former alcoholic and drug user, current university professor and well-known Dante specialist, rude and cold with everybody except with the heroine when he discovers she’s the same girl that saved him one night a long time ago.
