https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355742.Trick_Baby
I fell in love with the main character Johnny O' brien and even tried to look him up to see if he was still alive!
If you google him you'll know the main character was FIONE!
It tells of Johnny's black mother who was color struck and did not like black men.
She married Johnny's father, an irish man, while he was drunk who soon left them after getting pressure from his family.
After a tragic event, Johnny is left alone and taken up by his mentor/father figure (I forget his name but I think it's Blue).
Johnny is so loveable and his story telling is so raw.
Painful chronicle of the black male underclass of the USA in the 1940s.
Written in the 60s by Robert Beck who lived a similar life of crime in the same era and later went straight and became a writer.
What I didn’t like was the uncritical way the story slings around male sexism that is really on a par with racism in its brutal and unconscious judgement and treatment of those outside the relatively privileged group.
I read this book after becoming a fan of Robert Beck. Anyone who considers themselves 'street smart' should read this book. Maybe 'squares' should read it too because it reveals things about life that everyone should be aware of!
I loved the vivid language ("renting a dame's machinery") and the love of the con. It reminded me of PIMP THE STORY OF MY LIFE (3/5) in that the protagonist's profession seems like something he is called to do rather than a profession. I also liked finding out that some people could be too lazy to be con artists! The lengthy technical descriptions of the cons and scams were nerdy and made me feel like I was reading a cyberpunk novel.
....I read this many years ago...It was given to me during a very cold winter, by a security guard at my college with whom I'd struck up a friendship...Very exciting, street-wise novel- and I don't remember much else about it- except one thing that I learned from the main character, that I've put to use many times since with great effect... Might be time to revisit more of this author's work.
Trick Baby is a term used for the offspring of a black prostitute who has given birth to a baby who is half white.
After his mother is gang raped and put into a secure mental hospital, White Folks (trick baby) falls into the company of Blue, a grifter con-man who teaches Folks the art of Con. How to hustle for money in downtown Chicago.
Folks has an advantage as he looks like a peckerwood (white man) Blue and Folks play the con and earn lots of money on the grifter circuit.
I personally think that this book was the best of all of Iceberg Slim's books.Slim tells the story of a young man known as White Folks but who was referred to as Trick Baby.
After the marriage falls apart and his father leaves them, people assume that his mother was a prostitute and that his birth was the result of a "trick" (or sex with a john for those unaware of urban slang.) After White Folks' mother's descent into mental illness, he falls into a life of crime.
He does make some attempts at reformation but those quickly fall to the wayside.Slim does a great job of taking you from the cradle to White Folks' adulthood.
This book is about a bi racial man who appears to be white, being raised by his black mother in a black community that both ridicules him for supposedly being the product of prostitution and reveres him for being able to cross the color line and live a life not held back by the mere fact that one is black skinned
Love Iceberg’s work, but just could never get into this, despite the hype.
mindblowing and crazy like memphis in the middle of the summer. just crunk for no reason!
Not at good as Iceberg's first book. I just didn't find White Folks as compelling a character.
Everybody it a trick sometimes, and everybody is a pimp.
Iceberg Slim tells the story of a blue eyed, light haired, white skinned Negro called "White Folks" He was the most incredible con man the ghetto ever spawned!
This book was made into a film that I remember was pretty good.
Great story about conning.
I read all Slims books honest stories of the street back when....
Di contro, all'interno delle comunità afro-americane - anche tramontata la cultura delle diverse gradazioni di "sangue nero", in ragione delle quali si era definiti "negroes", "mulattoes", "quadroons" o "high yellow" (in ordine decrescente di "negritudine") - le leggi del darwinismo sociale hanno spesso privilegiato chi aveva la pelle chiara, il che ha prodotto una serie di contraddizioni, paradossi e "doppi vincoli" (risentimento o invidia da parte dei più "scuri", senso di colpa o vergogna da parte dei "troppo chiari" etc).
Great BookI ran across this book totally by mistake, I can't tell you how pleased I was. This is just a very interesting story about a con man in mid 20th century conman in Chicago who fits in neither the black or white world.
Loved it. Amazingly descriptive writing !!
I enjoyed it. It wasn't as grim as 'Pimp', but the 'Phala' sub-plot goes into the same territory.
Iceberg Slim should be in the American canon of great writers. Read him.
Amazing book great characters. Gritty writing. Makes u want to be in the con game. Blue was favorite character of mine. Iceberg slim was way ahead of this time.
Trick Baby is a term used for the offspring of a black prostitute who has given birth to a baby who is half white.
After his mother is gang raped and put into a secure mental hospital, White Folks (trick baby) falls into the company of Blue, a grifter con-man who teaches Folks the art of Con. How to hustle for money in downtown Chicago.
Folks has an advantage as he looks like a peckerwood (white man) Blue and Folks play the con and earn lots of money on the grifter circuit.
My favorite quote from the book is when Folks and Blue talk about religion.
Not as Good as Pimp but just as interesting! Great story, it starts off a little slow and lags in some portions but I enjoyed the read and there is one chapter called "Haters" that is simply powerful. This book is good because it situates the story within a racial and economic context and per usual Slim's analysis of human behavior is refreshingly spot on and raw. I recommend it!
A very thought provoking coming of age novel about a grifter who's stuck between two races. There was one chapter that I read that was so profound that it literally took my breath away. I also commend Mr. Slim on his ability to get sloppy. By that I mean he doesn't unnecessarily tie up loose ends that don't need to be tied up. My only problem with the book is that there were portions of the story that should've been expanded. But other then that, it was an excellent journey.
Iceberg Slim is one of the great American novelists, and I know one day there will be a Library of America edition of all of his works. But till then one has to track down these books - I bought my copies at a newsstand on Hollywood Blvd. Which come to mind is a perfect location to purchase the works of Iceberg Slim.'Trick Baby' is a story about a con-artist - and again it is like going to another world. Ghetto life galore with Iceberg as the driver. Go for the drive man!
Not as good as Pimp, but still thoroughly entertaining. Two of my three stars are just for the character names. In addition to the mixed-race main character White Folks and his mentor/partner in the con game Blue Howard, there's Dot Murray, Memphis Kid and St. Louis Shorty, Livin' Swell, Vicksburg Kid, One Pocket, Dirty Red, Precious Jimmy, Old Man Mule, Butcher Knife Brown, and Buster Bang Bang.
Great story! Incredible detail on life in the Chicago ghettos of 20 's & 30's. One hell of an adventure. It took me a few chapters to get conned into the tale but by the end I was ready to read the sequel. Slim is a slick and prolific ghetto fiction writer that should be better recognized for his incredible works.
Fascinating read from the biggest-selling writer nobody ever talks about in the academy. Looks like a straight-ahead con-man tale on the surface (but then again, so are Melville's THE CONFIDENCE MAN and Fitzgerald's THE GREAT GATSBY, in some ways), but the main character seems Humbertesquely repressive in his complicated sexuality, and reads Voltaire and Shelley when he's not ripping people off.
This one was GREAT! A Scottish press that put out stories about the underbelly of black american culture. Trick Baby is about a "White Nigger" pimp and his exciting life. A great book! I read this in Denmark and longed for the good life in America.
