https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13641208-tenth-of-december
The first and last stories in this book are, I think, masterpieces, and affected me more than I would have thought possible-- they're just short stories, after all.
After only reading her narrative for a minute or two, I felt completely involved, which is uncommon in my experience of short stories.
But there's someone else out there, a pretty hapless kid, with his own crazy narrative playing in his head.I liked that the first story was a call to action, and the last story was a call to acceptance.
Reading short story collections in one sitting is ill-advised, particularly when they can be as emotionally coals-rakey as Saunders can be.
But to suggest that some trick is afoot, or that these stories are vacuous or lacking in some essential empathy or feeling, that's just bullshit as far as even my most critical states of mind are concerned.
It was worth the wait, baby.Oh, and Victory Lap is one of the strongest Saunders stories I've ever read.
So if you don't want to dig through this whole book, just read that one.

consider DFW and maureen mchugh, both of whom paint with roughly the same palette -- y'know, the pomo'ey, quirky, capitalism & consumerism, blahblahstuff-white-people-like-etcetcetc** -- but whose stories feel not only topical and cultural-critiquey but also weighty and alive.
saunders seems in love with an idea and kind of schematically lays it out as if a mere essay in the short, quirky fiction form.
maybe craving a bit more roundness, heart, and/or weight is some reactionary booshit on my part or maybe saunders just doesn't do this as well as all the naked-emporer watchers say.
I started with a comment about Saunders himself because his stories, and collections in general, are hard to review.
They’re not so much whole stories that happen to be short as much as ones that might have been whole but were lopped off – skipping background, transitions, and even endings.
And there was a sense that there was an alleviated shame.” If I were to point to a common element in these stories, I’d say that they’re good at maximizing our discomfort.
My favorite story, the title piece that was put at the end, was somewhat of a contrast to the moral quandaries that preceded it.
Escape From Spiderhead features a genuinely disturbing account of a prisoner being used an experimental subject for various drugs that can be used to make someone fall instantly into love or hit a suicidal depth of despair within moments.
Victory Lap is about a young man whose behavior has been so dictated by his parents that he finds himself almost paralyzed as he witnesses a neighbor girl being abducted.
Both Spiderhead and My Chivalric Fiasco have drugs that can modify behavior to extreme lengths.
Prominent characters are poor and stupid like Al Roosten and the narrator of The Semplica Girl Diaries.
There are traces of his previous opaque absurdity and multi-perspective obfuscation, such as in the title piece, or the opening story ‘Victory Lap’—there are numerous stories in here that don’t particularly stick in the mind two hours later—but the prose is tighter than before, each sentence sandblasted into shorthand and the dialogue always has a trace of titter on its tongue, expertly balancing the silly with the murderously serious.
Good (if unhurried) things lie ahead for Mr. Saunders.
I like reading short stories but I hate writing about them.
A short story is so fleeting and ephemeral -- it's like trying to describe a cloud.This collection of 10 short stories by George Saunders is especially difficult and elusive.
I wanted to read this book because of a fantastic article written about Saunders in The New York Times earlier this year.* That article references a lovely convocation speech he gave, in which he advocates for treating others more kindly:"What I regret most in my life are failures of kindness.
Saunders is not for me; he is cut from a cloth that I cannot comfortably wear.
I just cannot get along with these authors, just like I cannot get along with certain types of music.
I like so many authors and there are so many books that I will never read because I will have died first, that I probably won't give this type of author another try.
I am not cutting edge.
I am certain that I am not the reading public that most authors seek preferment from.I really liked the end of the acknowledgements when he said that somewhere in his youth or childhood he must have done something good.
I knew that I liked George Saunders' after loving last year's  Lincoln in the Bardo , but this short story collection made me want to run out and grab everything else he's done. There's a palpable thrill to picking up one of Saunders' stories, which show an immense range over the course of ten individual tales of varying length. I always looked forward to reading this collection because I never knew which Saunders I'd be encountering. While one of the more recent collections I read had very good
As with all his other stories, Saunders uses a device to guide his characters' voice.
This character uses a truncated writing style in order to get all his thoughts down before bed that was both a challenge to read and didn't make its full impact until later in the story (though it is the longest in the collection).
Despite my quibbles, this is actually a much better story than many others I've read.This edition of the book came with an interview of George Saunders by David Sedaris.
Overall, this was an excellent short story collection and a great sampling of one of today's most acclaimed authors.
I almost wonder if he is like one of the characters in his first story, Alison Pope, whose thoughts ramble on how much she loves her town and people in her town, and in a high school ethics class poll, "voted for people being good and life being fun, with Mrs. Dees giving her a pitying glance as she stated her views: To do good, you just have to decide to do good.
Not that the stories are bad or anything, they are good, but they always feel like a George Saunders story, which is a compliment when applied to other writers but I'm kind of hoping to see something more from him.
Generally ---this is not my type of book. I wanted to read it (expand my view --see if maybe I've 'matured' in taste) --Overall I had a few laughs -- most of the stories were dark --(I found hard to find funny) --and I don't think I've matured at all.My mind drifted - (I had to 'work' to bring it back)--Its seems there was less character storytelling & character development than storytelling of ideas. I still give the book a 3 (not less) --for the pure artistry I observed from the author.
So I finally read Tenth of December, his 2013 collection of stories (and this is the main thing he does, short stories), and I loved it.
I did what I usually do with story collections: I read the opening and closing stories, because they are usually the best, and I think that is true, they are the two best, but I liked almost all of them.
“Escape from Spiderhead” is a weird sci-fi story about drug experiments conducted in a prison where prisoners fall in love or are sexually attracted to each other based on the dose.
We may say that his stories do not have the language of the old masters, but they have the language we use, with more kindness, generosity of spirit, and humor mixed in than most of us can rustle up on an ordinary day.In the “Afterword” to Although Of Course You End up Becoming Yourself, an extended interview with David Foster Wallace by David Lipsky writing for Rolling Stone magazine, Lipsky says of Wallace’s style that he wrote “the stuff you semi-thought, the background action you blinked through at supermarkets and commutes.” You heard it, you know it, but it doesn’t register enough for you to articulate and consider.
as george saunders shows, we are positioned in a vastly uneven landscape in which only those at the top can live in a superflat world as if nothing was at stake.
stories like "tenth of december" punch me in the gut, they leave me speechless and just...feeling like the world has opened up again, or like i've been plunged into the chasm, or like i've spent all day beating my fists against invisible walls that suddenly swing away and next i know i'm leaping into the sky.
The kid in Victory Lap is vastly different from Al Roosten who is totally separate from the convict in Spiderhead.
That range, skill and imagination is a helluva talent to have and definitely noticeable when reading one story after another like this.
Sticks is a one page story but is quite moving with Saunders impressively cramming a man’s life into such a short space, highlighting his changing priorities and perspectives over time.The two worst stories are unfortunately two of the longest.
There are definitely some hilarious and entertaining gems to be found in Tenth of December but if you’re looking for the best George Saunders collections I’d rec either Civilwarland or Pastoralia instead.
The most outstanding stories to my mind were the longer ones such as “Escape from Spiderhead” and “The Sempilca Girl Diaries”, although “Sticks” does really stand out also.Some of the stories border in that realm between horror and weird and science fictional and fantasy and are all highly readable and most compelling.
They were so well written infact that I found myself re-reading a couple of the stories as soon as I had finished them.Highly recommended.
Urgent, humane and deeply felt short stories by an absolute master of the form.Saunders’s voice is d
ero convinta fosse per via del mio urfidume di questi giorni. e che un pomeriggio di pioggia battente, la beata solitudine, il gatto e una tanica di tè allo zenzero mi avrebbero riconciliato con i racconti di george saunders. macchè.arrivata a fiasco cavalleresco ho capito che il sincronismo mi stava suggerendo qualcosa. ho finito il mio tè e ho detto a saunders che uscivo a comprare le sigarette. tanto non lo sa che non ho mai fumato.
"A feat of inventiveness...
This eclectic collection delights with its at times absurd, surreal, and darkly humorous look at very serious subjects." Khaled Hosseini, author of The Kite RunnerThese short stories may strike some readers as familiar tales, but Saunder's craft, honesty and focus on humanity separates them from other writers telling similar stories.
At the core, according to the author, is a focus on the least understood condition of humans, our ending - death.
Putting Saunder's spiritual practice of Buddhism in context with his writing was an added dimension and enjoyment to reading his fiction
Η εντύπωση που έχω σχηματίσει από κατά καιρούς σχετικά αφιερώματα και άρθρα είναι πως αντιμετωπίζεται ως ένας από τους πρωτοπόρους της μικρής φόρμας στην Αμερική – ένας μάστορας των ιστοριών (short stories, όπως λέγονται στους κύκλους εκεί), όπου μέσα από περιοδικά και ανθολογίες πάει ένα βήμα μπροστά το διήγημα, ανήσυχος, πειραματιζόμενος συνεχώς, με σκοπό να ανακαλύπτει νέους τρόπους να πει όσα δημιουργεί η φαντασία του.
Ναι, μια τέτοια τρέλα, άλλοτε λίγο άλλοτε πολύ αναδύεται από αυτές τις ιστορίες.Δεν ξέρω αν αποτελεί μια συγγραφική του εμμονή, ωστόσο ο προβληματισμός πάνω στην γλώσσα και τις αλλαγές που μπορούν να επιφέρουν κατάλληλες ουσίες, φαίνεται να είναι ένα βασικό στοιχείο αυτής της συλλογής.
When this book was released in January of this year I heard that one reviewer proclaimed it the "best book of the year." I guess there's some wisdom in some circumstances to not have very high expectations, like when anticipating the accomplishments of the latest election winnners, but certainly the contemporary publishing industry in this country and world is still turning out enough remarkable writing, that we can at least be hopeful throughout the year.
It might be possible to imitate that in literature and turn it into an art form, but this book fails to do so.The best story in it is the second one, and that one is only two pages long.
Saunders is a master at taking the ordinary, the usual, the hum-drum and tossing in a bit of bizarro (okay...in some cases, it's a whole lot of bizarro!) to mess with the proceedings. Not every one of these stories hit the jackpot with me, but the ones that did were right on the money.And, yes, I did wait until today, December 10th to read the title story. Sometimes I'm so cute I make myself sick.
Όχι γιατί κ οι δέκα ιστορίες που υπάρχουν εδώ είναι όλες φοβερές αλλά γιατί εδώ βρήκα μερικές απ'τις καλύτερες που έχω διαβάσει ποτέ, με αποκορύφωμα το ομώνυμο διήγημα που είναι ένα εντυπωσιακό κείμενο που θα ανατριχιάσει όποιον μπορέσει να μπει στο πετσί των δύο πρωταγωνιστών του.Ο Saunders έχει ένα προσωπικό τρόπο γραφής κ σε καμία περίπτωση δεν μπορώ να ισχυριστώ ότι είναι εύκολο να διεισδύσεις στις ιστορίες του, ακόμα κ αν έχεις πίσω σου αρκετές μεταμοντέρνες αναγνώσεις.
Little crevices that are perfect mixtures of bliss and sorrow, wunderkinds that jolt one into a sense of appreciation, bewilderment, wonder at this thing called life.
George Saunders’ collection of stories delves into these wells to produce emotions from the very depths of being.
I have not read an author with a deeper sense of humanity, with more compassion and understanding.
But this collection is not perfect; some stories are stronger than others.
Life is not perfect.
Some moments are happy, some are sad, some rarely, magnificently are both.
Saunders is a current literary darling, specializing in short stories, and has been generally very well-received.Tenth of December is a collection of ten short stories.
I liked it more when I thought it was character specific.
As the pages went on it began to grow stale.Saunders' wit is supposedly his trademark.
Many people think David Sedaris is hilarious; I have a hard time getting past the dysfunction, so instead of making me laugh, Sedaris bums me out.
By and large, though, I didn't enjoy most of my time with Saunders.Favorite stories from this collection: Escape From Spiderhead, Tenth of DecemberLeast favorites: Puppy, The Semplica Girl Diaries
There were a couple I loved, but of a couple I felt the emperor was wearing no clothes -- though evidenced by the language in the stories I liked, it's obvious he can write well.The theme of American classism runs through most of the stories, with the 'haves' (those with a ridiculous amount of too-much) living near the 'have-nots' (some are working poor; some have 'enough,' even more than enough, though they compare themselves to the former).For any short-story lovers out there, try to read at least the title story: it's perfect.
I'm late to the George Saunders fan club, but Tenth of December was amazing.
Belongs on the same shelf as Pynchon, McCarthy and DFW in the pantheon of amazing American writers.
He has a voice that captures the depth and vibrations of America's modern tragicomedy.
The sophistication of his prose is amazing.
There were a couple stories that were objectively only four stars, but emotionally, I wanted to finish this collection of short stories and run out and buy, beg or steal all Saunders other work.
If that isn't a reason to give a book five stars, well my whole system of celestial ratings is completely F-ed.
Catie told me that some stories reminded her of Black Mirror, and they do. What she didn't mention is that Saunders is quite funny. Hapless, kind-hearted underachievers seem to be his specialty.A rare short story collection that held my attention all the way through.
Me: Okay but I don't...like...short stories. Like at all.Book: Dude that is totally fine but just read like the first one.Me: fine Book: I STAB you in the face with my awesome!!Me: ..!Book: MY WORDS ARE LITERALLY TOUCHING YOUR BRAINMe: FUCK YESBook: How about this last story?!Me: shh I am having feelings
