https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52629.The_Fifth_Dominion
Debo reconocer que hacia la mitad del libro, cuando se empieza a desentrañar el misterio, hay un cambio que me desconcertó un poco, ya que desde un entorno misterioso, sugerente y conocido, de pronto te ves arrojado a un universo que sólo habría podido desplegar la imaginación de Barker.
Pero sólo son los reparos de cualquier lector, que como yo, sólo se había aproximado a fantasías comunes en este género.Y el final: no hay final.
Así, el lugar elegido para dividir la historia carece de cualquier significado particular; se limita a partir el texto por la mitad, en un sitio en que se pueda dejar un tomo y, si la historia ha obrado su magia, coger el siguiente.
For some reason, Clive Barker always takes me forever to read.
I think he gets a bit lost in descriptives for my taste.
This particular story was apparently chopped in half because of the size of the paperback and print involved in the whole story.
Oddly enough, it seems as if the plot could easily be summed up in the next hundred pages from the end that part one had.
But I guess that brings us back to the issue of description.
Anyway, I can pretty much see where he's going with the plot, but will someday pick up the second half and finish it
I first read Imajica maybe a dozen years ago, and i remembered liking it a lot at the time, but you know, sometimes tastes change.
However, i was in the mood for a huge freaky epic reading experience, so i thought i might give it a second whirl, and i'm SO glad i did.
I'm enjoying it just as much this time around as i did the first time.
And we need more mystifs here in the Fifth Dominion, or maybe we just need to love the ones we have with a little more kindness.
That went too far, Clive.Crafting a quintupled realm, how to move between them, sociology spurring them, are impressively achieved.
Clive reinvented fantasy fiction, when new combinations are scarcely imaginable.
It is commonly medieval but Clive presents modern Earth.
Ceaseless fixation on nakedness confiscated too many pages, making the revolutionary quest and compelling mystical dynamics secondary.There was excess overall, such as scenes allocated to trivial characters, even unwarranted imagery of peeing.
The rule “drop 10% in a final draft”, would tighten this novel by 41 pages fewer.
I want to learn the pasts Judith and John forgot, if Goddesses overthrow the warring males, and if Earth forges a thoroughfare to the other four dominions.
The writing is VERY long winded.
Every sentence that is written is done painstakingly so.
And I'm not exaggerating when I say every sentence.
well, I will have lost some precious seconds, that could have been recovered by simply saying, "eventually", or "all the time".
That's just one example that has stuck out to me as it's one that gets repeated a few times in the fullness of these pages.
And I have, and I did enjoy most all of whats on these pages, it just takes a long time to travel a little ways.
It took me a while to get into it because I had trouble making sense of it. The plot is very complex, yet fascinating. And I've come to learn from reading Clive Barker's books... When you're confused, just go with the flow and keep reading, and it will make sense eventually. This book is a prime example of that. The environment he created is absolutely enormous. I'm glad there's a glossary in the back or I would be lost.
The language made it difficult to read but it was interesting nonetheless. And the jesus imagery is interesting as well. I look forward to the reconcilation
essential clive barker
Imajica is the best of Barker's books! One of my favorite books of all time. Imaginative fantasy worlds are his specialty.
Fascinating and mesmerizing :)
His best work. Read!
First part of Clive Barker’s dimension-hopping fantasy novel.
The protagonists, Gentle and Judith, journey, separately from each other, from Earth (”the Fifth Dominion”) to the not-so-holy city of Yzordderex in the First Dominion, which is in another dimension.
The book is meant to be Clive Barker’s interpretaion of the story of Jesus Christ.
The story looks quite promising but the first half of the book gives very few answers to any of the questions raised.
Looking forward to finding out how the story will end in the second part.
»En ocasiones, se debe huir del mundo para poder verlo"
I've read this book probably a dozen times. It never fails to disappoint.
original in a way I guess, Clive's a world builder extraodinaire, but I found the whole ******SPOILER ALERT ****** "men are evil and innately destructive and of course irrationally hate women and are so scared of their reproductive capabilities and capacity to love etc...- only poor, put upon goddesses and their exclusive enclave of women can rule wisely, due of course to the innate holiness of their life giving wombs" to be such a tired old trope - especially since I couldn't care in the slightest about any of the protagonists (except maybe Gentle but even then he was a weak willed idiot, happy in his ignorance most of the time, even while trying to undertake some universe changing mission - a very 'male attitude' I'm sure many 101 students would argue) or their bizarre logic for doing the things they did.
After 150 pages (which is about 80 pages more than the hundred page rule- if you don't know, that rule says you should read 100-your age of a book before deciding not to read more of it), I've decided that I don't care if I finish this 500+ page monster, especially given that this is only half of the overall story that just wouldn't fit in one paperback edition.
And maybe that ultimately prejudiced me against the book (given how much I disagree with Mr. Barker), but that part was worth the read nonetheless.
A great distinction lies within this book.
Herein too lies its fault.
The narrative in its rush to tell, to be a bestseller, to keep moving and appeal and tantalize loses itself and in the process devalues itself.
The writing seems rushed, as do the events and somethings seem to make no sense whatsoever other than they NEED to happen to get the plot where needs to go (i.e. Judith automatically falling in love with Oscar).
One last note, a distinction between the creations and creation must be made.
There is a real vibrancy to them that the writing does not completely do justice.
First of all this is the not book 1 of a series rather it's only the first half of the book.
I've got to say I haven't read any Barker before this but I will be checking out more of his stuff in the future.
Barker is an expert at crafting the arena for the story and building up his chracters while providing the right mix of fantasy\sex\insanity to keep things interesting.
He touches on some great ideas and really reignited my taste in fantasy and reading in general.
Can't wait to finish the second book to see how things wrap up.
So far this highly imaginative story is just good enough to keep me going onto book 2.
The writing is intelligent and compelling and the storyline similarly well-crafted.
The novel's greatest weakness, however, is the characters.
They're inconsistent, irrational and at times nearly incomprehensible in their judgment and motives.
It's hard to become too thoroughly invested in a story in which the characters are not relatable.
If weak, unconvincing characters is of no concern for you, then I recommend this novel wholeheartedly.
Otherwise it may not be worth your time.
Favorite QuotesA man kills the thing he loves, and he must die a little himself.His body and his mind went about their different businesses. The former, freed from conscious instruction, breathed, rolled, sweated, and digested. The latter went dreaming.We’re too much ourselves. Afraid of letting go of what we are, in case we are nothing, and holding on so tight, we lose everything else.
(This review is for the whole of  Imajica , since it really is a single story.)I liked this book tremendously. It has a very unusual take on the messiah story, and many likable characters. The language is absolutely inspired in places. It does sprawl a lot, which counts against it, but I didn't mind too much.
a strange and intriguing tale, breaking from a lot of the standard tropes and keeping the reader guessing at what mysteries will come next. at times the line of the plot is a bit disjointed, with surprising turns in events that sometimes seem to derail established directions in the story. overall though, I think the book is excellent, with the rare, slight disturbed feeling of "wait....what?" either supplanted by or adding to the surprising twists and turns that are smoothly written.
Book one gets a solid 4. I stayed up when exhausted wanting to fine out more about these strange & fully created worlds, and I loved the link between our world and the rest. The second book dropped it to a three...still amazing on the worlds front... something about the pacing started to make it a little hard to get through. The end had some nice moments.
Barker's poetic prose and convincing characterisation parachutes the reader into his imagination. You become part of his landscape and plot and don't desire the return to your own realm until the adventure is over. I prefer Weaveworld and The Great And Secret Show..but all are different and all unique trips into believable fantasy.
I really had to force myself to finish this, and just barely. I did not like any of the main characters, and their motives for doing anything just seemed forced. I get that the author was going for a mystical, mind-bending reality thing here, but, it didn't work for me. Highly doubt I'll read the second half. Mayhap if I cared for the characters at all I would.
This is absolutely my favorite book of all time. I have read it twice. It, Weaveworld, and the Great and Secret Show are complex, epic journeys in worlds so complex and detailed one could read them multiple times and discover new details every time. Clive Barker is a brilliant author. Not for the fainthearted (none of his books are).
Second only to Weaveworld in my estimation, this two-novel epic once again takes us into the vast universe of magic and horrors that populates Barker's mind. With diverse characters and worlds to explore, the drama still hinges on the human nature of the characters, something which Barker excels at balancing while still dazzling us the incredible.
i picked this book up at a flea market in wisconsin. last night i was trying to decide what book to read and i decided to wait on this one until after christmas b/c as i understand it, this is book is giant and daunting and time consuming but it sounds awesome.
This book is extremely imaginative and interesting, and the plot will hold your attention throughout. Some readers might find some of the very strange twists and turns too much to follow, but I have enjoyed it thoroughly and will rush to read the second part.
