https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6988014-seven-days-in-the-art-world
The value of art isn't created in The Auction, The Crit, The Fair, The Prize, The Magazine, The Studio Visit, or The Biennale.
The author tries to temper that implication by stating, several times, that it is a very complicated dialog with many voices in the mix, but she leaves out the quotidian in favor of the sexy Big Events, which have everything to do with Money and Power, and very little to do with art.A personal note: I have a few friends who are now successful artists, gallerists, critics, and curators.
For someone who "writes about the art world and art market for many publications," Thornton asks some pretty lame questions.
Her deep, probing interview questions are "What do artists learn at art school?
She writes choppy paragraphs quoting her interview subjects.
Either quote them, or give us your interpretation of what they said, but please do not do both at the same time.
Even if Thornton is showing us the truth, that a lot of the "art world" is pretentious, she misses deeper truths.
At no time does she convey the depth of conviction that many artists have about their work, or how that depth of conviction might be shared by a viewer.
Overview - It's a book about 7 different environments of the art world: * an auction (at Christie's in NYC) - below* a MFA crit session (at CalArt) -below* a visit to the Basel art fair (Switzerland) * the Turner prize in London * a visit to Artforum (magazine)* a visit to the studio of Japanese artist Takashi Murakami* a trip to the Venice Biennale Overall it was an easy read, but as an artist it bothered me.
What bothered me was that after an artist creates their "work of art", it becomes a "commodity" for the self-centered, big money "collectors".
The result is a surprisingly engaging account of how the frothiest end of the art market works (or doesn't), written in a way that a non-insider can understand.Thornton spends a day inside the New York branch of Christie's, one of the three major auction houses able to sell tens of millions of dollars worth of art in a single evening to the extraordinarily rich; a crit session at CalArts, where future artists learn how to disengage their thinking processes from the real world; opening day of the Venice Biennale, the art-themed amusement park for the very wealthy; and four other close encounters with the contemporary art scene.
I am sure that most readers of this book also chose it because we will never be able to attend a Christie's Post-war art auction, the Venice Bienniale, or the Basel Art Fair except vicariously through Sarah Thornton.
But back to the book!
I think it sums it up that Sarah Thornton treated both my favorite critic and one of my least favorite contemporary artists in ways that were engaging and has reinforced my fascination with the art world, despite all the flaws.
Early chapters on a Christie's auction of contemporary art, and a visit to the Art Basel fair were most interesting.
But chapters on Takashi Murakami, the magazine Artforum, and the Venice Biennale were relatively lustreless, and Thornton felt too much in the narrative; she spoke a lot in the first person, it was clear she had established friendships with many of the main players she was interviewing, and it was hard not to think of her as the pretty girl at the party, drawing the attention of elderly collectors at the auctions and fairs, swimming at the pool of the Hotel Cipriani in Venice with the large-bellied super-rich.
I got to read an advanced copy of this book and write a blurb about it for the magazine. Sooo, not only did reading this book make me feel extremely cool, it was also a really enjoyable read. Thornton is a "cat on the prowl" in the most important (and impenetrable) centers of the contemporary art world. Her account is gossipy and educational. What could be more fun?
Mua vui cũng được một vài trống canh
In spite of her apparent hopes that this book might be a ethnology of the art world, it comes across a group of magazine articles that describe seven events -- an auction, an art fair, a biennial, etc.
One says without further explanation, "Georges Perec wrote a novel without the letter e.
I think we can learn from that." I don't know who this "we" is that he is talking about, but I am not one of them.I also enjoyed the visit to Art Forum magazine, particularly the section where an editor suggests that at one period in its history the magazine suffered from "the wrong kind of unreadability." As someone who has struggled to get through an Art Forum article, I am happy to know that they have now achieved the right kind of unreadability.
لا تقرأ هذا الكتاب مالم يكن لديك إهتمام حقيقي بالفن التشكيلي مالم يكن لديك إهتمام بماذا يحدث في كوال
If you want to understand the art world and how money commands it, that's a good start!
i haven't technically finished reading this book, but i have FINISHED READING THIS BOOK oh my god
This is a book about how rich people have nothing to do with their enormous amounts of money, so they spend it on objects that may or may not be of any aesthetic value.
Thornton makes no bones about the topic of this book; it is an ethnography, it is not at all interested in making aesthetic distinctions, and you'll have to decide for yourself if Takashi Murakami is interesting and if his work is worthwhile.
I have a hard time believing that anyone could finish reading the book, however, without making a pretty strong aesthetic judgment on the people Thornton's writing about.
Very good book about how the art world operates, from auctions to dealers to collectors.
But the cover looked interesting and it was out of most of our normal "comfort" zone, so chosen it was.I think my perspective on this book was changed from what it might have been due to the book I had read just before it.
I didn't like the person writing the book but I appreciated the material, even if it wasn't something I shared a lot of interest in.That said - I was very interested in the first chapter..
and actually a chapter we discussed in our book club that I hadn't read yet..
Thornton's book takes a look at the art college, the gallery, the auctioneer, the art show and of course the modern artist's studio to look at the modern art game from many angles.What impresses is the great level of the interviews with genuine and weighty insiders.
It is not a judgmental exposé, or hatchet job - but you do get a good look at how it really is, from someone who knows the game and actually likes her art.I was given this from an artist I know as I am just as interested in how the art world works as the art itself.
I like that, since most introductions can be skipped if you plan on reading the whole book, and most conclusions are somewhat half-baked.
The first was her non-judgmental reporting.
So many viewpoints were held by so many of the "art world people" that she couldn't possibly agree with more than half of them, yet none of the interviews came across as hostile.
The only judgment that seemed to slip through was an occasional appreciation of the art itself, which seems fair.
If you think the book is elitist, you probably misheard the author's voice under the elitists she interviewed (there were a few - it is the art world)
An entertaining tour of the contemporary art world: from auction to artist to museum to art magazine to art fair. Occasionally lapses into a bit of anthropological analysis, but stays mostly in a strong, detailed, and enjoyable descriptions of the funny animals in the art zoo. Strong reportage.
My wife got me this after reading one of Thornton’s articles. After reading it, I understood the art world better, and wanted less to do with it than before.
Technically a 4.5. New topic for me but loved every bit of it. "The Studio Visit" with Murakami was my favorite interview - yea I am partial to anything and anyone Japanese but Thornton did a great job at highlighting Murakamis work and not just this crazed always on the move with huge productions- type artists. She focused on the studio as it pertains to the art work as she did with the Art school, the auction house and Biennale. More to come ....
Fokusirano je na ekonomsku stranu umetnosti, a to me, pogađate, ne zanima.
The art world is rather schizophrenic, with intense contrasts and polarized beliefs and actions, and the book does a great job presenting this: for example, we have the very rich people who believe art is a commodity versus very poor art students who abhor words like creativity and never speak about money.
I actually loved that, since I like learning about new artists and critics, but I imagine that it can get tiresome for some people.All in all, this is a fascinating book if you're interested in the mechanics of the art world, with an easy to read (but still interesting) language, based on a remarkable research work.
Several sets of wonderful stories emerge, with occasional overlap as a few figures move from one scene to another, but for the most part these are highly disparate snapshots which demonstrate that there is no one "art world," but a whole range of overlapping subcultures, each with its own hierarchies and protocols.I'd put her self-described ethnographic technique somewhere between traditional newspaper/magazine reporting and, say, the participatory journalism of George Plimpton; she's definitely not trying to be invisible, but she's not taking part in the activities she observes, either.
If you are confused by the contemporary art scene, this book is a great introduction.
It does not explain the art itself, just the art WORLD.
Along the way you meet some of the great contemporary artists and the gallery owners who show their work and profit thereby.
It's a very expensive and exclusive scene.
I didn't feel that the author was passing any kind of judgment on the art itself, just exploring the world in which it exists.
a cursory glimpse into the different facets of the art world today. it was cool to recognize many of the names and i found the chapter on artforum to be the most interesting. the subject of my master's thesis got the last word which was cool however, the author seemed more interested in showing off her connections than making thoughtful observations that could have shed some light on the field. she merely affirmed stereotypes of prototypical "art people" and most of the time it seemed like she just wanted to gossip to her reader.
The marketing and legitimizing of current art for the wealthy elites is repulsive to me on almost every level. Recommended for those with a strong stomach and ability to tolerate this focus on the privileged few, who may or may not have any regard or insight into artistic legacy.
„Byl nejvyšší čas, aby Turnerovu cenu dostal hrnčíř transvestita!“ Čtěte celou recenzi: http://bit.ly/recenze-sedm-dni-ve-sve...
Cuốn sách được cấu trúc theo 7 định chế trong thế giới nghệ thuật, gồm (1) Phiên bán đấu giá, (2) Buổi phê bình nhóm, (3) Hội chợ nghệ thuật, (4) Giải thưởng nghệ thuật, (5) Tạp chí nghệ thuật, (6) Xưởng nghệ sĩ, (7) Triển lãm lưỡng niên.
Ngoài ra còn rất nhiều các đoạn trích phỏng vấn và đối thoại thú vị mà cách nói chuyện đầy ẩn ý và ngoa dụ của những người làm nghệ thuật chính là thứ hấp dẫn nhất với tôi trong cuốn sách này.
Reader okay.It appears that the "art world" like so much of our culture today is driven by corporate values of status, pretentiousness, money and commodification.
It's not a world that appeals much to me.One of the most interesting things for me was how much of this change has occurred post WWII.Another thing that caught my attention was how in the Crit chapter life drawing was denigrated as useful only for designers.
When I went to art school life drawing and other basic skills were taught then we were encouraged to use or reject them to create our own vision.There are a lot of artists, extremely talented, doing excellent work who never make it in this rarefied world.
"Art is religion for atheists" was a new idea by me, so that was fun.
I got a little lost with the names and just sort of let the venues of each chapter wash over me during walks.
It gave me bits to think about, and honestly left me a little despairing of having any part in "true art" since I'm not a quadrillionaire.
the crit chapter and bits elsewhere still gave me motivation to dabble and support "what I like," whether the arbitrary actors of the market rubber-stamp those selections or not.But the auctions really are such a manufactured racket.
