https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12127750-the-mark-of-athena
Where the previous books in the series have been funny, action packed and adventurous,  The Mark of Athena  does it infinitely better. This book has it all: character and relationship development, and action packed plot. Basically, this book was the bomb: The book picks up from where we were at  The Son of Neptune . We finally,  finally  get to see Percybeth reunited an entertaining fashion (view spoiler)[ Annabeth flips Percy on his back and demands he never,  ever  leave her again (hide spoile
This book has it all: character and relationship development, and action packed plot.
Thus, within 20 pages of the book we already have some action!After the mishaps (view spoiler)[ Leo firing at Camp Jupiter  (hide spoiler)], our heroes begin the quest.
Typically, they have a "lighthearted, awkward, teasing relationship." In this book we see Annabeth distance herself from everyone because she needs to be secretive.
I can see how people don't like these changes but I personally applaud them because it shows Percy and Annabeth are growing up and maturing.
If you don't like the relationship and character development there is  lots  of action.
My favorite book in this series so far!!
Am I the only one?) But everyone else, Percy, Annabeth, Hazel, Frank and Leo, I absolutely loved.
Like some nice siblingy relationships or some tension, like with Percy and Jason for example.
I felt like there were opportunities for them to have gotten to know each other more, like Piper and Hazel, or Leo and Percy, or Frank and Jason.
(view spoiler)[Frank, Hazel and Leo, though.
(hide spoiler)]Leo. He was, by far my favourite character of the series (aside from Percy, of course, but I think that's a given).
My Not-So-Final Final Review Let's start this review in the most eloquently put way I can: I have no idea how to write this review.When I finished this book a while ago, I would log onto Goodreads every single day and every single day, I would look at my pre-review and think, how can I write this review? What should I include, what should I put emphasis on? I would simply just stare at my laptop's screen until my mom called me down for dinner.I wish I could write this review to the high calibar
I wish, I wish so badly, that I could write a review that would be able to express how badly I loved this book, how much I sobbed when I read that damned ending and how I just couldn't contain a fan-girl squel everytime Percy and Annabeth shared a kiss.Unfortunately, my wish cannot come true.
This book though, should definitely come with a warning like this, right on the front page:WARNING:Reading will cause excessive sobs/laughs and an extreme conflict of emotions.Riordan is able to toy with your brain and make you cry when you thought you were happy and make you laugh when you should have been sad.
(A very good place to staaaart.)In his usual trollish fashion, Riordan left the previous book in the series––The Son of Neptune––just as Annabeth, Piper, Jason, and Leo were about to fly into Camp Jupiter (AND PERCY AND ANNABETH WERE ABOUT TO BE REUNITED AT LAAAST!).
However, I thought that––as usual––Riordan does a good job keeping the plot moving from one point to the next, and each little quest is almost like its own little story so there's no room for getting bored.Probably the most daunting task in this book was having to juggle all the characters.
Since the focus in this book tended to be more on Percy, Annabeth, Leo, Piper, and Jason, I felt like Frank and Hazel faded into the background a bit.
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: Weaving plot from tangled threads of inadequacy, it’s an ode to adolescence: totally teeming with teen angst tension.
“Delaying death is one of my favorite hobbies”Gods, how I missed these books! Why did it take me so long to continue this series? Why did I let Rick Riordan down?It was great to return to the world of the Greek and Roman gods and monsters. Entertaining and so incredibly hilarious! Oh man, I loved this so much.  The Mark of Athena  has a few tiny flaws, but that doesn't stop it from being an amazing read.Find more of my books on Instagram
Latest Edit:Oh man, oh man oh man oh man! Confession: First thought that came to mind when the book was released: How will Percabeth react to each other? A kiss? Dramatic hug/cry scene? Honestly, I really want to see more going on in that area. Sadly, I'm not getting my copy until the next few weeks.... I'm in control.... I hope they kiss in front of everyone, you know... WHAT? I'm in control- gosh.... .............. Edited:Ok, WOW? Is that the cover? And is that Jason and Percy... Fighting? And
And isn't the owl the symbol for Athena?
are Percy and Jason FIGHTING?!
And all I'm going to say is that I'm getting bad vibes from Athena.
My insides are so heated up I might melt if I have to wait a whole year!Then there's also Hera telling Percy his weakness is loyalty, and how he's going to have to make some painful sacrifices, and then she tells him the person closest to him will be causing him trouble (Annabeth??) Three wishes for Mr. Rick1.
Don't make Percy have to kill Annabeth!!!!2.
ANNABETH AND PERCY BETTER NOT BREAK UP!!!!
Uncle Rick! Now you are going to torture me with cruel cliffhangers?   Really? I didn't think you would do that after seven books! Anyway, carry on! I still love you!This book was AMAZING! The adventure was the most deadly one yet. And we got to see all the prophesied seven demi-gods on screen. I LOVED THAT!  OVERVIEW Annabeth, Jason, Piper and Leo reach Camp Jupiter with their warship, Argo II, to tell the roman demi-gods that they have to forget their animosity and team up with them to defea
I still love you!This book was AMAZING!
Annabeth, Jason, Piper and Leo reach Camp Jupiter with their warship, Argo II, to tell the roman demi-gods that they have to forget their animosity and team up with them to defeat Gaea.
All the seven demi-gods, Percy, Annabeth, Jason, Piper, Hazel, Frank and Leo escape with Argo II and go to the ancient land of Rome to stop gaints from awakening Gaea.But that's not enough.
When he and Annabeth started dating, his mother had drummed it into his head: It’s good manners to walk your date to the door.
Percy and Annabeth are sooo amazing together.
(s) IF Y’ALL DIDN’T KNOW, FRANK IS MY SONI love him so much oh my god he’s so precious and the best Canadian human child everHazel is a sweet kid but again, shes not my most FAVOURITE characterShe has her ups but I think as a character, I need to see more development before I can put my heart with her
Those were my two reactions when my sister told me the book was about to come out.
I can't wait for this book!!!!!
Wow, the more I think about it, it is really hard to wait.
I finally finished the book!
:)Oh wait...the next book comes out next YEAR.
(back to the Mark of Athena) one of my favorite lines was when Percy said to Annabeth, "We're staying together," Percy promised.
A very hard fall."As long as we're together," she saidThose lines almost made me cry.
Everyone knows this.""Amazing at pure suck," Leo said.
Oh wait, you already did that."Those lines made me chuckle.
WHY, RICK RIORDAN?! Why would you do that to us?! I just waited a year for Son of Neptune and now you are making me wait AGAIN for Mark of Athena! All I can say now is: WHAT THE HECK?!COME FASTER, 2012!edit 10/23/11:What the... well, only good thing is that it's September this time, instead of October. Oh well. See ya in a year!
The Mark of Athena picks right were the Son of Neptune left off, though everyone who read the first chapter sneak peek knows that already.
Percabeth has enough, and is only going to get more in the next book *writer of review glares at smiling Rick on the inside jacked of The Mark of Athena.* However, I'm hopeful the next book will give me the conflict in Jason/Piper's perfect relationship since sons of Jupiter get a lot of heat throughout history and in this book.I suppose that I do have one big complaint I have is that the book was really slow at the beginning.
I always feel like I've learnt a lot about Greek (and Roman now!) myths when I read these books.
She felt very needy about Jason in this book...like she needed constant reassurance that Renya wasn't between them.
But even at one stage Annabeth wonders if Percy likes Hazel.
I like Frank but I don't love him.
I do wish the book had been smaller because, like I said, I think it detoured too much and I got bored in a lot of the middle ground...but these characters are so my favourites and I could probably read about them forever.
Pre-Reading: When I started Heroes of Olympus, this book hasn't been published yet. So, I think it's time for me to dive back into this world. Stoked!Post-Reading Edit: (3Jun2016)4 stars! ✨As per usual with Mr. Riordan, this book was freaking hilarious. Percy and Leo's antics made me clutch my sides and had me dying of laughter hundreds of times. One of my favourite Leo Moments was his encounter with Narcissus. But nothing beats his convo with Aphros. That one was pure gem. “We have trained all
Pre-Reading: When I started Heroes of Olympus, this book hasn't been published yet.
✨As per usual with Mr. Riordan, this book was freaking hilarious.
Percy and Leo's antics made me clutch my sides and had me dying of laughter hundreds of times.
“We have trained all the famous mer-heroes!
Name a mer-hero, and we have trained him or her!”“Oh, sure,” Leo said.
Despite the humor and snarky comments, I noticed that this book can't seem to hold my attention for more than I have wanted it to.
I can't wait to read the last two books of the series!
there are only two things, the first: the beginning was kinda slow, and the second: what the hell type of ending was that? That was such a huge cliffhanger, why Rick? Why? (view spoiler)[I cannot believe it ended with Percy and Annabeth pretty much falling to their doom, I can't believe you've done this, we'll see you around, just gonna wallow in my disappear :c (hide spoiler)]
In The Mark of Athena, Percy, Hazel and Frank meet up with four others from Camp Half-Blood: Jason, Piper, Leo, and Annabeth.
Their goal is to make it to Rome, find Hazel's brother Nico, and find the Doors of Death.This book takes place all over, but the main setting is on Leo's warship: The ArgoII.
Annabeth is such a kick-butt girl, it's fun to see her point of view on things.
Percy, of course, narrated some chapters too.
YEAH!' I thought that was hilarious.The ending.
Rick did his first real cliffhanger.
I'm glad Rick writes suck great books but.....PLEASE!
But goodness, grab your copies now!
10/3/12People, I know it's out and it has a cover.
If you must know, I AM DYING TO GET MY HANDS ON A COPY.
Gimmmmeeee!---I just finished the The Son of Neptune and I am so excited for this I might just keel over and die right now.
But where's the fun in that right?
0_o I feel like Percy when Juno was taking him for a ride.
Like I'm being throttled with a big pink bunny ear headband, you know, just for laughs.
This results in our crew (Piper, Jason, Annabeth, Percy, Leo, Hazel, Frank and our notorious guardian Coach Hedge) having to flee and spend quite a bit of the book cautious of what they're doing and constantly having near misses with the Roman army after them.
I loved the fact Annabeth quickly worked out what she was meant to do because it would have taken any other character a book and a half to work it out.
Reading his chapters made me so happy since I know the point of view of a favourite character isn't common in these books (especially Blood of Olympus).
THAT ENDING. Best in the series so far, can't wait to read the next one!
4.5, really. I don't know why, but I liked "The Son of Neptune" better (just a little bit). Anyways, this book was AWESOME. Percy and Annabeth have my heart <3.
Oh my god, this book was awesome!! My favourite of the series so far!! I love Leo and loved Percy and Annabeth in this book so much!! That ending was crazyyy, so going to read House of Hades asap!! Looooved!!
Natural selection should have picked them off years ago because clearly they're too dumb to stay out of trouble...Yet another Rick Riordan book that is longer than it needs to be and is full of bad jokes that make me scold myself for laughing.
And when will he admit that platonic friendships between girls and boys are in fact possible and he doesn't need to pair everyone up all the time?Off-topic, but: At one point Hazel is watching her past boyfriend Sammy while in a flashback with Sammy's great-grandson (don't ask) and it kept making me think of Supernatural because Hazel kept saying "Sammy, no!"My fangirl brain is always making connections like these, it's a real party up there.Anyway I'm off to read fanfiction about Leo.
After a totally heartwarming reunion (I mean it, my feels did crazy things while it lasted) and a successful sabotage attempt from Gaea's minions, the peace between Greeks and Romans seems even less possible, so our characters have to leave in a rush to a quest that will literally take them across the sea and will make their nightmares seem like a cute thing.The only characters in here that can be compared to how they were in the original series are Percy and Annabeth.
I'm going to be taking a break from this series for a little while.
Repeat 30 times until you have a 600-page book.I'm also not feeling the stakes in this series.
Logically, you know no one's going to die because otherwise the quest would be forfeit and there would not be five books.
So I'm just not feeling any tension because I don't believe anything will happen until the final book.
Also, none of the popular ones can ever die because they need to be used as fanbait in other series.
Hopefully, a break will restore the enjoyment I used to feel when reading PJO.
After Reading:Frankly, this was sub-par and not at all worthy of Rick Riordan and the characters he's created (By that I mean Percy and Annabeth, not the new people.
The characters were very flat.
Mr. Riordan has managed to create a singularly annoying character in Coach Hedge.
Even Percy and Annabeth have become unidimensional characters filled with lots of angst and unnecessary emo.
So unworthy of Mr. Riordan's legacy.
--------------------------------Our dudes are supposed to be a team, but from the absolutely stunning cover, it seems Percy and Jason are fighting.
Crush him to bits, Percy!!!
Buy this book HERE for CHEAP with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIPPING 3.5 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). THIS IS SERIES IS GETTING REALLY EXCITING. AND DEVASTATING. WHY ANNABETH AND PERCY???? WHYYYYYYYYYYMy rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star. Not because a book might not be worthy, but because a book is never perfect.4 - I loved it! There weren't too many flaws, and I had no trouble getting through it. (A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever
3.5 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
THIS IS SERIES IS GETTING REALLY EXCITING.
WHYYYYYYYYYYMy rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star.
There weren't too many flaws, and I had no trouble getting through it.
(A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever given a book.)3 - I enjoyed the book, but there we're flaws that made me enjoy it less.2 - I finished the book, but there were too many flaws for me to enjoy it.1 - I could not finish the book, and I probably did not finish it....
ONLY like 0~20DAYS!!!!
Wait a secondI have to say that even though like 20 days is horrible its better than a year ago.
Really Rick do you enjoy watching people being tortured cuz I have to admit it happens alot with you.
Any way the cover of TMOA is really good but really bad at the same time.
(BTW Jason your rear end is gonna get kicked by my boyfriend)I just hope nothing bad happens to Percy and Annabeth.
Any way Rick I am warning you if there is no lip action or a running jump leap hug with Percy and Annabeth .....oooohhhhh letts nnnnoootttt go there.
so originally I was going to wait until Jan. or something to buy the book.
That way I would only have to wait a couple months for The Mark of Athena.
I cant wait!!
How i missed her snide comments and gray eyes :) Percy is absolutely going to say the cutest thing possible when he sees her.
What is going to happen with Jason and Reyna?
Hazel and Frank?(which are amazing together, btw!) and what is Hera talking about Annabeth is going to cause problems?
I love Percy and his temper and smashing her in the face three times with waves and stuff.Gahhhhhh!!!!
GODS remember how i said last book was the best so far?? OK THIS ONE IS THE BEST SO FAR!!! oh my god that was amazing! that was amazing! that was amazing! from the beginning, to that heart!stopping!ending! incredible. it just worked so well. ok i admit i did skip some pages on pipers POV but the forced-het-romance between her and jason is so annoying, i'm sorry! ANYWAYS WHO'S READY TO START THE HOUSE OF HADES AT 2:40am?? this girl
