https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103902.Gustav_Klimt
But although Gustav Klimt continued to align himself with the more traditional factions of the art world, he was soon to experience changes in his personal life that would send him off on a path all his own.SecessionIn 1891, Gustav’s brother Ernst married a woman named Helene Flöge, and that same year, Gustav painted a portrait of her sister, Emilie for the first time.
Εξαιρετική παρουσίαση του ζωγράφου Γκουστάφ Κλιμτ,των θεμάτων της τέχνης του, και οι διάφορες φάσεις της καριέρας του.Το βιβλίο είναι πλούσια διακοσμημένο με πολλά από τα έργα του Κλιμτ,αλλά και μερικά προσχέδια για τη σύνθεση των πινάκων του.Έμαθα και πράγματα που δεν τα ήξερα για αυτόν τον καλλιτέχνη.Φυσικά αυτό που απόλαυσα περισσότερο είναι το έργο «Το φιλί» που είναι από τους αγαπημένους μου πίνακες.
Read a book on Klimt.
Fall even more in love with his work.
This is how it went for me.
The book is richly decorated with many of Klimt's paintings, but also some of his (composition) sketches and it was just a wonder to behold.
I was not very familiar with Klimt, so learning he did landscapes was a big surprise for me.The book was nicely, chronologically set up.
I've had to learn to live with "Sissi" because of the Romy Schneider series, but "Sissy" is something else entirely!
my favorite painter of all time. "The Kiss" is such a classic- but there is more to this man than that one painting.
حيث بيعت لوحته “أديل بلوخ باور” مقابل 135 مليون دولار عام 2006.إليكم خمس لوحات من أشهر أعمال كليمت..لوحة داناي (1908)داناي – لوحة لـ جوستاف كليميتتعتبر هذه اللوحة تمثيلاً نموذجياً للإثارة الجنسية عند كليميت، فهو يصور داناي، والتي كانت موضوعاً شائعاً آنذاك، فقد رسمها قبله أنطونيو دا كوريدجو ورامبرانت وتيتيان.كانت داناي رمزاً للحب الإلهي والسمو والجمال والإثارة.
كما أنه رسم اللوحة على جدران مبنى حركة الإنفصال الفنية في فيينا.بعد إنتهاء المعرض، تم الاحتفاظ باللوحة ولم تُعرض مرة أخرى إلّا في عام 1986، ولا تزال معروضة حتى اليوم.
Questi libri della Taschen, che in Italia vennero pubblicati dal gruppo dell'Espresso (i miei avevano preso le tre serie complete: impressionisti, arte classica e novecento) coniugano un buon apparato critico e riproduzioni di qualità.
Si tratta quindi, programmaticamente, di testi introduttivi, che risultano ad ogni modo utili sia per studio (li ho consultati spesso per i miei esami di storia dell'arte) che in vista di un'esposizione, com'è stato il mio caso per questo libro su Klimt, letto in previsione della mostra al museo Correr di Venezia: http://www.mostraklimt.it/
I love Klimt so very much so I was tempted to rate this higher (I am so biased) but I did things properly.
I loved the copious amount of prints in this book and the few photographs of the artist and the ones he painted, adored seeing his sketches of some of his most famous pieces.
There was a lot of repetition and I think this book could have gained a lot by presenting Klimt's work in chronological order.
So really it has been poorly edited in my opinion.
The edition is so nice, I love me some glazed paper.
When I stood in front of some of Klimt's paintings in Paris (the exhibition included his Beethoven frieze, which I only now realize how privileged I was to see), I remember thinking "I have no idea what these women are thinking." They were a mystery to me. This book has given some greater depth to the man and his works, but it has not taken away the mystery. Excellent pictures and insight.
Pretty good quality reproductions of work by wonderfully inventive, colour-driven artist way ahead of his time.
This book is so unique!.
The painting "The Kiss" (Der Kuss) shown as the book's cover is my ultimate favorite and Klimt's most popular work.
But I couldn't find it until one day I got a package from Rondy, I thought he sent me a calendar and to my surprise it was THE KISS poster!!!
For me, the romantic side shows in the way the life-sizes figures posed.
Just look at the way they embrace each other, don't you think it's romantic?
Love really shows from the way the embrace each other.
Tra i Taschen letti finora, è quello che mi ha convinta un po'meno perchè non centra in pieno l'obiettivo della collana di cui fa parte, ovvero rendere un artista accessibile a tutti: la trattazione è piuttosto settoriale, e ho trovato incoerente anche l'organizzazione delle immagini, poste in molti casi parecchie pagine dopo il punto in cui il testo ne tratta. Resta comunque un testo molto valido, ma per leggerlo bisogna possedere buonissime conoscenze artistiche che vanno oltre quelle di base, se lo si vuole apprezzare sino in fondo
Este ha sido un libro muy ameno. Dejando muchas dudas resueltas sobre Klimt. La verdad es que era un pintor que no conocía y nunca me había llamado la atención, pero al acabar este libro he visto lo interesante que son sus obras artísticas y la gran repercusión que tuvieron. El escritor de este libro lo explica todo muy bien y concretamente, y te incita a buscar más sobre el artista.
«Según Klimt, Filosofía, Medicina y Jurisprudencia no están en condiciones de asegurar a la humanidad una vida feliz y satisfactoria – como ha dejado claro en sus cuadros para la Facultad. Para la utópica generación de Klimt, sólo el arte es capaz de salvar a las personas.»
I did achieve this goal, but unfortunately found myself frustrated again due to the author’s hyper-focus on the aspects of sexuality that he perceived in Klimt’s work.
Obviously there are many aspects of his interpretations that I agree with (for example that Klimt’s women were extremely forward in their aspect for the time period, and the way that he presented nude figures was certainly unique), but his over-use of certain terminology became tedious and at times seemed to imply a sense of disdain for female sexuality and the female form as presented by Klimt.
Obviously Néret’s academic subject when it came to art critique was centered around eroticism, but I came into this book expecting an broad (but brief) overview of Klimt’s work not a detailed critique of a singular theme.
I don't remember when I acquired this book, but truthfully, it sat on my bookshelf for a very long time before I finally read it.The author seems to be very knowledgeable; and he speaks of specific art movements and styles as if the reader will be familiar with them.
This was a good primer on the artist's life and work, and I could see the book serving as a road map of sorts for additional, more in-depth reading, if one was so inclined.The only other difficulty I experienced with this book - and ultimately what influenced my rating of it - was the arrangement of information and images.
This book provides an excellent guide to the art of Gustav Klimt (1862 - 1918) with photos of his works including studies and unfinished works as well as works that have not survived.
This is not a biography but does include biographical details which set Klimt's art in personal, artistic, and historical contexts and some insight into the Viennese art circle.
The author notes within the text where photos of the art works are located for easy comparison and consideration.
The book is part of a series which promises excellent books on other artists.
I liked his work, especially the use of gold in his paintings.
When I moved out on my own in college, my mom bought me a large print of The Kiss for my apartment.
I still have that print and I'm in my 30s now.
I enjoyed the background information on Klimt in this book.
I felt like it could have been organized a bit more; I was constantly flipping back and forth to the different paintings referenced.
All in all, not a bad intro book on the life of Klimt.
I am actually giving a 4/5 for Taschen (German art book producer) for their work. They produce artist books that include personal background, history, paintings and their description in an organised and simple manner. What I also like about Taschen art books is that they make affordable coffee table books (they retail for Euro 10, although I’m not sure if this is their price in Amman). I bought this one during my Klimt craze while in Vienna. My next on will be for my all-time favourite Botticelli.
I did waver here towards 3 stars because the presentation and the pictures are lovely, but I wanted to know more about the artist and sadly I found the writing confusing and impenetrable as thought written by someone who wants to impress but thinks the way to do this is to use big words and phrases without thinking about how this impacts the reading - so sadly I stay at 2 stars.
Interesting.
Beautiful photographs of art, society, and Klimt himself with good cliff-notes style description of his life, ethos, and inspirations.
fantastic book!
Two stars only because I really, really love Klimt, and yes, I learned a few things.BUTthe only real point Néret makes in this book is that all of Klimt's art is in some way sexual (even the landscapes) and if he maybe actually put a reason in there, that wouldn't be a problem.

I love Klimt's works, but I didn't know about him at all.
So it was really fun to know about his life and works and I like his works more than I used to now.This book shows a lot of his works and they are parented here and there.
When it mentions a painting, it says "(see page22)" or something like that.
So you need to go back and forth when you read it.
It was a bit annoying.
And sadly, some of the drawings are in back-and-white.
After seeing an exhibit of Klimt drawings in LA at the Getty - and then seeing his paintings at the Neue Gallerie in NYC, I had to learn more about this artist. I'm no art history major, but this book gave me a great overview of Klimt and the artistic environment of Vienna at the time. The book provided me a great overview in its synopsis of Klimt the man, his work and the Vienna art scene at the time.
I loved this book and the illustrations in it. I found it informative and very well written. It delved into his work, life , love and inspirations. After reading it I felt that I knew Gustav a lot better. This is a book to read if you want to know about Symbolism and The Sessionist movement. It wo'nt cover everything but shows how the founder came to be.
My love affair with the work of Klimt began fairly early, so when I saw this book I was excited. It had large prints of his work, in b&w and color, as well as a full biography. Its very good for what is basically a coffee table book.
This is a nice book with many, many color reproductions of Klimt's work. It tells you a bit about how Klimt's life and the society he lived in influenced his work. The color reproductions are my favorite part. I think I found this book in a free box.
