https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860184.The_Gallery
So here I was being asked what a book was about when all I really wanted was to get to my seat, so my new best friend -- the pilot -- could get to his seat; and he could fly and I could read.
The Portraits tell the same story from a farrago of characters treading the same path.My heart finally broke in Naples, our narrator says.
My heart finally broke in Naples.
One African-American soldier deplores the cure, and yet says, like a blues: Ah cain't do thout mah lovin.
American purchase, and a different hunger.
It contains portraits which capture in detail the appearance and a bit of the inner psychology of its framed subjects; but it also panoramas which encompass a view of the countryside, or of a moment in the life of a great city.The Gallery is about the North African and Italian fronts of World War II.
The Americans were having their first adventure in the Old World, and then made up for their lack of combat experience with boundless material wealth and overwhelming force.
This is not so much a novel about every hero in the war effort, but it is about ordinary people.
I think that a good reader of any time would be capable of putting two and two together if they cared about what they were reading in the first place.
Still, I liked The Gallery a whole lot better than The Moon and the Bonfire that I read last year about an expat returning home to Italy after the war.
to possible American readers Burns was pretty good about not assuming too much about every person.
I liked his tongue in cheek humor about how they took themselves seriously as if everyone around them noticed every thing they were doing when they probably didn't (just another American, right?).
In a series of nine portraits, we meet a few honorable Americans, some desperate Italians and a mountain of moral ambiguity.
American greed complements Italian ingenuity in this caldron of destruction and despair which is Occupied Naples in the summer of 1944.
He is scathing in his depiction of widespread American callousness toward the starving Italians, but equally dismayed by the opportunistic perfidy of those Italians who benefitted from the corruption and incompetence of the occupiers; Naples, at the foot of Mt Vesuvius, is a powerful metaphor for the complexities of what Burns calls the worst war in history.
If this suggestion seems to come out of left field, that's fitting, since my rediscovery of this mid-century American masterpiece swept me away from out of nowhere, recently.
In Burns, the “portraits” share the motif of prostitution, actual or figurative, in search of security & decent comfort.
The city has “a taste at once modern and medieval, all grown together in weariness and urgency and disgust.” Other chapters consider a Jew in the U.S. infantry, an African-American saddled with VD and trying out the experimental new drug penicillin, and — in what may be the most astounding, most moving portrait — the tumultuous crowd in the Galleria’s gay bar, one evening in summer '44.
He has repeatedly called the book the finest novel of WWII, and wrote a profile of Burns in which the man comes across as a homosexual supremacist, an alcoholic, as well as “a gifted man who wrote a book in excess of his gift, making a masterpiece that will endure in a way he himself could not.”The book was reprinted in 2004 as part of the invaluable New York Review of Books Classics series, but I couldn’t easily find a copy of this edition.
It is less a novel than a series of short stories set in allied-occupied Italy and linked by the Galleria, an arcade in Naples where US Servicemen interface with the locals through the black market and prostitution.
That is, you like it brutal or you like it thoughtful."The Gallery", probably one of the most expressive and darkly sublime portrayals of war I've ever encountered, falls into the second category.
No, this novel is about everything that goes sour, that shatters one's illusions, that drives the narrator at one point to discover about himself that there is absolutely nothing to love about being an American in "liberated" Italy in 1944.
It points up the corruption and often hilarious incompetency of officers, the greed of the common soldier, and the blindness with which one blunders through war's aftermath, rapine and insatiable.The novel's structure is wonderful.
"I remember my mother's teaching me out of her wisdom that the possession of Things implies a responsibility for Their use, that They shouldn't be wasted, that Having Things should never dominate my living. When this happens Things become more important than People. Comfort then becomes the be-and-end-all of human life. And when other people threaten your material comfort, you have no recourse but to fight them. It makes no difference who attacks whom first. The result is the same, a killing and a chaos that the world of 1944 wasn't big enough to stand."
The structure of this book, the vivid characters, and the historical significance of it make it truly a heartbreaking work of staggering genius.Burns did us a solid to note for the future that among the millions of soldiers from World War Two: some of them were gay, some of them fell in love, and many of them were lonely.
But while the wealthy or famous, the Generals and statesmen would have countless books written about their point of view, that of the socially marginalized would be infinitely more rare; and therefore more precious.
I appreciate that Burns is to be noted as a pioneer of gay literature.
If you haven't read The Gallery, do it now.
I found it helpful to be reading the biography of John Horne Burns while I was reading The Gallery to get some insight into the writer's life while he was writing the book and after it had been written.
The Gallery is very unsympathetic to the American soldiers of WW2.
There are some wonderful glimpses of the claustrophobic life of a serviceman here and Burns does a great job of showing the despair many of these men felt.
It's a fascinating book.
I will begin by saying that I didn't even finish a third of this book, so yes, I will own up to the criticism of not being capable of accurately reviewing this book without having completed it.That being said, I have never encountered a book that is so mind-numbingly dull that simultaneously asks so much of the reader at the same time.
No, I'm not afraid or hesitant of stream of consciousness style; my background is Modernism.
Certainly the disjointed, stream of consciousness style can be productive and novel...when it happened as a result of the FIRST great war.
Burns worked in intelligence during WWII, and his job appears largely to have been trying unsuccessfully to keep his fellow soldiers from selling their equipment and rations to the starving Italian population which surrounded them.
– Burns presents a vision of the war which seems utterly unfamiliar, miserable and resolutely unheroic, the mindless destruction of an ancient civilization by the brute force of modernity, and the human wreckage left behind.
A closeted homosexual, Burns also offers a distinct view into the gay subculture which (flourished?
It’s not at all bad, but it’s also pretty miserable and quite difficult, and so I can only offer a sort of mixed-recommendation.

This was one of the first US novels after WWII and depicts, in vignettes separated by "Promenades", nine persons who end up in Naples in August 1944.
This book is also one of the only WWII novels I have read that deals almost exclusively behind the front lines.
One notable section is "Queen Penicillin" which deals with a stay in a VD ward that I have never seen described.I was seriously considering a 5 star review--the vignettes are that good, but I felt the "Promenades" which connected the stories were variable.
it is obvious after reading this book that burns was a man who saw and loved the beauty in other men; some of his descriptions of male beauty i would ascribe to his being male.
The Gallery is a book with no overall narrative - a series of vignettes really, all based on the author’s experiences in North Africa and, chiefly, Naples in the period of Allied occupation during World War Two. Burns was an American soldier, with aspirations to be a writer, realising this ambition in this book, his one masterpiece.
Two British ‘queens’, both army sergeants, carry on an enjoyably camp banter; a female officer sits in a corner, reading, every evening, free from the unwanted attentions of men; soldiers and sailors from different nationalities come together, presided over by ‘Mamma’, who watches the passing crowds in a state of benevolent fascination.
Author John Horne Burns, by most accounts troubled and alcoholic, hit his peak with this work and died relatively young.
The book gives great insight into the true mindset of the WWII era.
It delves deep in ways a combat novel could never do, except possibly in homefront scenes.
The mindsets of the relatively coddled rear-line officer, the desperate and nearly starving local civilians, and the battle-scarred and doomed Joes on leave from the front line are vastly different if not in direct conflict.
The author put all he had into this work.
This is truly a neglected classic from the years just after World War II.
More a series of character sketches than a novel it is nonetheless a brilliant evocation of soldiers in Italy, and Naples in particular, during the war.
The section called "Momma" has rightly been noted as an outstanding depiction of gay men in war, but the rest of the novel does not fall far from the standard set in this section.
Burns uses a realistic style to expose the foibles of men at war.
This powerful, long-neglected novel of American soldiers in Naples during World War II may finally get some well-deserved attention with the recent publication of David Margolick's biography of its author ("Dreadful: The Short Life and Gay Times of John Horne Burns").
I read it too many years ago to remember the details but it made a lasting impression not least because the depiction of homosexuality in the military was so startling at the time.
It's on my "to reread" list, assuming my 1960 Bantam mass market paperback doesn't fall apart when I open it.
What a truly marvelous book, complex and different and challenging and delightful. A collection of portraits of people and places in 1944, mostly in Naples, Italy. "Momma", about a gay bar (which may or may not have ever existed) is an amazing story for its time, and "Queen Penicillen", about a soldiers 8 day stay in a VD clinic is incredible. But having read Dreadful, a biography of John Horne Burns, it makes me so sad to see the lost potential for this author. But if you're reading this review, you should read this book.
"Dear Mother, you'll be surprised to know that I'm writing to you from the syphilis ward..."so many zingers in this book that make me laugh, gasp, and reel. The reason it got 5 stars from me is the excellent writing. The subject matter is hard to take because it shows people suffering. One of the best books about world war two, it is short on heroism and adoring liberated crowds and long on gritty realism.
The gallery of the title is the Galleria Umberto in Naples during the Allied occupation. The title also refers to the gallery of “portraits,” of habitues of the galleria, that makes up the novel. Each portrait is as complete and incisive as a novella. The portraits alternate with “promenades” wherein a narrator, apparently the author, recounts his memories of Casablanca and Naples during the war. Collectively it all works, memorably.
WWII has been so mythologized as the "Greatest Generation." This gallery of fictional portraits written just after the war is a great antidote from that. It shows people and places in all their stinking and glorious humanity. It also seems to war ran on booze and cigarettes generally. Also has interesting early portrait of gay life being just part of the continuum of humanity.
Norman Mailer considers this one of the best war novels. Gore Vidal also praises the book.
Unity of location and time argue for treating it as one work, however.The conceit at the heart of the book is the dual meaning of the word “gallery.” Much of the plot unrolls in the Galleria Umberto, an arcade where one can find, legally or illegally, nearly everything in this otherwise destitute city.
He alternates nine portraits, tales complete in themselves with no overlapping characters, and eight promenades.
Unlike the portraits, there is a recurring character, the “I” of the narrator.
Their dialogue reflects varying attitudes of the occupiers, from vulturous to well-meaning but ineffectual.There is a third unity in the book, the relentless theme that war defiles.
This is a very well-written, moving, passionate, gritty, sad, and engaging book written about Naples in 1944 when the Allies were taking Italy.
The book tells different stories of Naples in sections through the eyes of women and men who pass through the Gallery Umberto.
One story is about an Italian woman whose husband stops have sex with her when she cannot have children - she opens a gay bar in the Gallery.
Another story is about a soldier who got Syphilis from an Italian woman he loved and describes the hospital treatment to cure it, which included degradation by the staff, wearing fatigues with VD painted on the back, and losing his rank.
amazing imagery...at times the characters seemed callow, but their were other vignettes that were too funny, the religious in competition who died in each other's arms, and the Italian woman who sought some kind of life for herself out of the ruins of Naples, the syphilis ward. The abstraction on the gay bar scenes was a tad much, but amusing. Boy that drank a lot of vermouth. Three Naples books in a row--this, Ferrante, and Elsa Morante. Something amiss. Not sure I'd recommend unless someone wanted atmosphere, or history.
Not exactly masterful, but genuinely vivid and honest on Americans and Italians in shattered Naples in August, 1944. Particularly Interesting on the rude awakening of Americans contemplating their role in the world.... basically that ambiguous and somewhat dishonest thing that may be in its death throes right now.
Dreary, rambling, disconnected, pointless. I don’t know how this ended up on my SOUB, but I knew it wouldn’t be my cup of tea when I saw that Gore Vidal and Norman Mailer loved it. I can only imagine what a depressing cynic the author must have been.
It's much less interesting than it sounds
