https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18080920-the-transfer
This was a lot shorter than I imagined, but it definitely gives you the Divergent feels even though plotwise everything has been covered in the previous books.  "You’re the one who has to live with your choice." "Everyone else will get over it, move on, no matter what you decide. But you never will." The transfer follows Tobias from the day of his aptitude test and though his Choosing day until the moment hes given his infamous nickname- Four. It gives you a better understanding of the choice he
This was a lot shorter than I imagined, but it definitely gives you the Divergent feels even though plotwise everything has been covered in the previous books.
But you never will." The transfer follows Tobias from the day of his aptitude test and though his Choosing day until the moment he´s given his infamous nickname- Four.
It gives you a better understanding of the choice he made, and why he chose dauntless as apposed to any of the other factions.
It´s not the same Tobias you meet in Divergent, nor the same voice you follow in Allegiant, this is Tobias before he became Four.
get it??) that lead right up to the release date for the Divergent movie in march, but she is being smart about how she writes them.
and you like that."so it's great to have this memory-blast, and i assume the three forthcoming ones will be the same kind of thing - where we aren't being given new material, just enhanced, already-known plot, which doesn't come across as redundant because of all the added surrounding detail, but which also means that a fan without access to e-books isn't going to be deprived of actual content if they aren't able to read them.
OH MY GOD, THIS IS THE GREATEST THING EVER!!
Poor 16 year old Four.
I love Tobias, he is just incredible. It's so sad seeing him in a weak form, how frightened he was growing up. I am glad he has changed from that because it was just terrible reading those scenes, they made me tear up really bad.
Sep 03, 2013 (before reading)A fat cow never goes unmilked… and so here it comes the army of overpriced short stories.Kindle Price: $2.06Print Length: 30 pagesSeriously.Oct 26, 2013 (after reading)Just for clarity's sake: on my ADE reader, the ebook was exactly 34 pages long, and the story began on page 4 (Four!
Hehe) and ended on page 29, for a net total of 25 pages.I'm not one of those people who think that everything should be free or at least very cheap.
And I don't want to squabble over a matter of a handful of cents.
Damn it, I didn't expected to get so emotional with this novella... I wanted to punch Marcus... ...and then salute Four, for being his kick ass self. So overall...
What can I say?! I love Tobias Eaton ! And this book was awesome! Reading another short story on his POV was such a magical experience. Finding more about his relationship with Marcus  son of a bitch! I hate him  and how was his Choosing Ceremony and how he felt about it. How did he make up his mind about which faction he would choose. And finally how he felt in his first tests in Dauntless and how he got his nicknameFOUR ♥
2.5 stars - SpoilersMeh, it was mostly boring. The storyline was decent enough with Tobias wanting to escape his abusive dad, thus transferring to Dauntless, and then jumping off trains and buildings to prove himself, and finally facing his fears in a scientifically nonsensical simulation. I really wasn't impressed with Four's narration — his voice was too dull and predictable, and it ruined the story.I predict that he'll probably fall for a fellow Dauntless initiate in one of his future novellas, and then she'll die or some rubbish. I hope that doesn't happen though, it's way too cliched.
Right now I am reading Four: A Divergent Story Collection (Divergent, #0.1 - 0.4) by Veronica Roth and really enjoying the book! It has been an long time since I read the Divergent series, so it is nice getting back into it :)
He abused him for a long time and now is finally the moment for that to change..
He makes a decision that will alter his existence forever and keep his abusive father away for good..We have a chance to watch him struggle with his choise and we have a chance to see what Tobias Eaton was, before Dauntless..THOUGHTS ABOUT THE BOOK- His father is an unbalanced monster.- The writing is very good and the story flows so easily..- It's great to be on his mind..- He went through a lot himself..- It's so good that he found his place..- I liked the story with his mother..- I also liked how he got his name..- He melt my heart and not just because of his looks..
Unfortunately, there's not much.
Just Four's badassessness.
And even if that's no small thing, I really wished for an awesome revelation or something exciting to happen.That said, it was so refreshing to meet again the Four I fell in love with in Divergent and not that weird teenager I found in Insurgent.
It delivered, a nice reminded of who Tobias was and how he became my first book crush.
He was tough, strong even when his father was such a jerk and determined to rewrite his own story.
Oh, Veronica Roth.
I'm not sure if I'm ready to step in Allegiant.
It's a fact that Four is my favorite character in the series and reading a bit about his past makes me understand him more.
It is not that we find something new, not at all, but it's his voice with his insecurities and hopes and fears.
and why not, fear him."My name is Four." I say.
"Call me 'Stiff' again and you and I will have a problem." A nice addition to the story..
what can I say, I'm waiting for the next short story from his point of view :D
I loved reading from Tobias' point of view. He was my favourite character! I think he had much more depth than anyone else and if anything, I don't think Roth delved deep enough for my liking.
This was strangely fun :)
It's like Christmas came so EARLY this year!
The first novella written in Four's perspective was Free Four: Tobias Tells the Story in which he described his feelings when he first met Abnegation-transfer  Tris Prior.
In this new novella comprised of like 50 pages, Tobias Eaton told his story as an Abnegation-born and the rules he had to live by with his father.
He is a good narrator and I can personally feel his pain and fears while telling his story.
I can't help but hate Marcus for inflicting him pain and even thought he could condition Tobias's mind to stay on his faction.
Esta historia no te cuenta nada que no sepamos ya, solo es para sacar dinero y estoy segura de que las demás serán iguales.LO QUE ME GUSTO: pues ver desde su perspectiva el miedo que tenia a su padre.LO QUE NO ME GUSTO: que eligiera Dauntless solo porque sabria que seria mas vergonzoso para Marcus, literal ese es su ultimo pensamiento antes de elegir esa facción.
Yo creía que la eligiria para saber defenderse o algo así, incluso la excusa estúpida de Tris de "porque ellos son libres" es mejor que eso.PD: Insisto, hubiera sido mejor 4 historias cortas de otros 4 personajes..
I just read this tonight and it reminded me fondly of the good old days before (in my view) Veronica Roth messed everything up in Allegiant. I love Four - And his "origins" story was nice to read. The only thing I can say is that Veronica Roth still doesn't do well with distinguishing POVs; Four still sounds about the same as if we were hearing from Tris. Four is just great, though.
I don't know about you guys but this novella is four-fect! See what I did there? Four stars for this Four four-fection <4Okay. This is too much. I'm out.
The only I want to say...
I just can't...okay?
I can't wait until December for the next one okay?
But anyway, back to my review of this amazingly awesome book.Look Marcus you just need to stop beating your son okay?
Like he is the best thing that has ever happened to the world.
I was just like this, when I heard Marcus's name in "The Transfer." Marcus has some serious problems to do that to Four.
SERIOUS PROBLEMS.
Then I was just reading...like a abnormal fangirl like always: Then it did the worst thing that books do....I was like it will last longer if you believe...
“You’re the one who has to live with your choice,” she says. “Everyone else will get over it, move on, no matter what you decide. But you never will.” I'm apparently in a mood for short stories this week.This is Four's story and it's quite interesting.This is Four that we meet and fell in love with in Divergent-wreck,but a badass wreck.But we don't really learn anything new...Marcus is a seriously messed up person,I would actually like to know more about him and his relationship with Four,did h
“Everyone else will get over it, move on, no matter what you decide.
I'm apparently in a mood for short stories this week.This is Four's story and it's quite interesting.This is Four that we meet and fell in love with in Divergent-wreck,but a badass wreck.But we don't really learn anything new...Marcus is a seriously messed up person,I would actually like to know more about him and his relationship with Four,did he know that Four is Divergent?Did Four know that there's something wrong?
So many questions,so little good informative material from Veronica Roth.Overall,this was a cool short story.
I predict that HarperCollins will eventually produce a bindup edition of all of these short stories.*They did it for the Delirium trilogy.*~(Thanks Tez!)Four: A Divergent Story CollectionFebruary 11, 2014 | 978-0062285683
UPDATE (9/5): So, thanks to a friend on Goodreads, as well as the Divergentfans website and of course, who can forget Veronica Roth who made it all possible, I read this!
I actually thought that it could've been longer, just because I want to read more of the Divergent world, but this was great!UPDATE (9/3): It's out today!!
OMG, I can't wait to read this.
OMG, I can't wait for more Four!!!
I think this is going to be when he's 16 and he chooses Dauntless, can't wait at all, there's only a month-ish!!!
I've only read the first installment of the Divergent series. Despite the fact that I didn't move forward with the other books, I actually find this world fascinating. Unfortunately the style of writing just isn't as strong as in, say, The Hunger Games.This is a decent look into Four's Dauntless initiation and will probably satisfy anyone who is invested in the series.
"She sounds and looks casual, but it’s a studied casualness..."When most of the sentences in a story begin like this, it's hard to actually enjoy it. 3 stars.
In The Transfer, we get to know about Four's life story when he was still Tobias, before he attained dauntless status and became Four.Tobias has a strained relationship with his abusive father who treats him like a kicked puppy bruising him with beatings from his belt.
To escape from the torture and haunting childhood memories, Tobias decides to leave abnegation hoping to start afresh at Dauntless.He thinks his mother is dead but little did he know that she was a factionless leader.
Little did he know he was Divergent.
"My name is Four. Call me 'Stiff' again and you and I will have a problem." I can't even express how much I miss this world and especially one of my top book boyfriends, Four. It surely was a treat to get inside his head once again after I got a taste of it in Free Four. This story basically narrates how he came about to choosing to transfer to Dauntless to escape his life with his father in Abnegation. What I loved most about this super mini novella is how it made Tobias/Four look more human (
What I loved most about this super mini novella is how it made Tobias/Four look more human (and less of a god in my eyes lol).
He didn't really start out to be this strong alpha-male that we know and love and instead, he was even this weak and fearful scrawny kid who just made the decision of choosing the lesser of two evils.
In fact, he even appeared to be a tad bit weaker than Tris in some ways when he transferred to Dauntless, which just blew my mind away because of how far he'd come to be this strong and dependent leader that we know in Divergent and Insurgent.
Yes, I am one of the Divergent fangirls.
Yes, I love every word of every page of every book or story Veronica Roth writes for this series.
Yes, I love that she continues writing short stories from Four's perspective because deep down inside me there is a 13 year old girl that I haven't let go of that is dyyyyying for more.There, I said it.
This is just a nice little story about Four's transfer from Abnegation to Dauntless and how he came to be known as Four.
:DFour stars for Four's story.
Before he fell in love with Tris, he only had himself and his father.
"The Transfer", one of Veronica Roth's series of short stories told from Four's point of view, revolves around the story of Marcus Eaton's only son, Tobias Eaton.
Here we catch a glimpse of Four's old life before Tris and Dauntless—his vulnerabilities, his deepest, darkest secrets and the four fears that has defined him.
Although only 50 ebook pages long, Veronica Roth doesn't fail to deliver her message directly to the point.
There is a never a dull moment in Roth's short story.
