https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/665863.Thunderhead
Quotes to remember:"I've got it all figured out about cats and dogs.
No such seed as fortitude can be planted in a young heart without pain.""Faith.""You know what that is.
You believe in God; you know He's there and He made us, and He is wise.
It you take it that way -- a training school, not just a vacation or a pleasure trip, then you're not too upset when you find yourself up against things you can't handle -- you just know it's the apparatus -- you're making muscle -- spiritual muscle --.""Now and then people ought to overhaul themselves the way you would an engine.
My favourite childhood book. I read the trilogy it belongs to dozens of times. Actually, although I was horse mad, the angst and effort of the boy Ken is as engaging as that of the eponymous equine hero. The three books - My Friend Flicka is the first, this the second and The Green Grass of Wyoming is the third - totally entranced me, and left me with a lifelong wish to see Wyoming. Ot at least the Wyoming of the book. I still mentally quote from it!
Thunderhead/Goblin is arguably the most interesting character in the My Friend Flicka trilogy but his surroundings can be appalling at times.This series is one of those books which were considered perfectly innocent books for children's libraries when I was young.
I think the violence is mild but you know there's going to be those hyper-sensitive parents that equate their precious children having a (GASP) nightmare equates with the Holocaust.As I get older, I am getting increasingly uncomfortable with how violently the horses are treated -- which was not considered violent at the time, I know.
The movie and the book are two like two different but tasty flavors of ice cream.
This is the best of O'Hara's trilogy.
Goblin / Thunderhead is a fierce personality wrapped up in a horse's body.
As he comes into his own, he wavers on the edge between triumph and infamy, and this novel explores the tragedy that is always twinned with greatness.
I appreciated the author's balance in those instances; O'Hara handles those moments with realism but no sadistic descriptions of gore or deliberate use of the shock factor.
The novel is a violent play on emotions from the heights of fierce triumph to desperate unhappiness and heartbreak; it ends well, but leaves a lingering, wistful thought of what could have been but will never be.
In part two of the My Friend Flicka trilogy Flicka has two babies, Rob and Nell's marriage suffers because of finances, both Ken and Howard mature and The Albino returns.Flicka's first foal turns out to be a snow white throwback to his grandfather The Albino.
Will Rob and Nell reconcile?
There is absolutely no change in tone or flavor between the first two, I don't remember the third book very well so stay tuned!P.S. This is NOT a children's book due to animal violence and death and descriptions of marital stress.
Who the heck tagged it as children's?
An enjoyable and readable adventure that deals more with the interpersonal relationships on the farm than one would have expected from a YA book about horses.
The cruelty of nature fits the setting but is nevertheless upsetting and the relish O'Hara ostensibly feels in describing horse brains being eked out onto the ground, for example, is a bit disturbing.
But the love between boy and horses Thunderhead, Flicka and Touch And Go is brought vividly to life as well as Ken's struggle to become a man and "to take it".
I read the entire trilogy multiple times in childhood. Thunderhead was always my least favorite. As a preteen, crazy for horses, Flicka was my favorite. As a young teen, the romance in Green Grass appealed to me the most. Rereading the triology now, as an adult wife and mother, I have found Thunderhead to be my favorite of the three. As a child, I found Nell and Rob's story extremely boring and skipped over many parts. Those parts are the most enjoyable now
I was crazy about this series of books as a kid. I think I was crazy about anything to do with horses. This is my first time rereading this book as an adult. As a kid, I didn't know how amazing Wyoming landscapes are. Now I live here and it still amazes me every day. The author's descriptions of Wyoming are so perfect. That's what jumps out at me now, more than the horse story.
Another great "slice of American life" but so much more too. The relationships between father and son, husband and wife, brothers... something young readers can handle and yet very mature themes for us adults. Grand. Everything you want in a book, when you're looking for a really good book to read.
Finished Mary O'Hara book "Thunderhead". I have read this book a number of times as a kid and still love it as an adult. Great "horsey" story. Very quick read with glimpses of a slower paced life on a horse ranch. Would I recommend this book to others: Yes. Would I read it again: Yes,
If you love animals and the outdoors, this is sure to be one of your favourites! A sequel to My Friend Flicka, this book about Flicka's son completely outshines both the previous book and the one that follows, Green Grass of Wyoming. A real tour de force!
Having NOT read My Friend Flicka, or any others in the series, this book about a rare white stallion, Thunderhead, and Ken, a adolescent boy, is superb.
I found the correlation between Thunderhead and Ken's maturation, similar and in the end gratifying.
Descriptions of the Western mountains and valleys are enrapturing and thought provoking.
Ken, trying to be mature and take responsibility for this White horse ( at one point called Ghost) tries his best despite the horse's resistance to control and supervision.
Ken wants to save his family from economic collapse and turn this horse into a paying winner at the track.
I am not sure what it is about this book,but it is just such a wonderful read. I loved it!O'Hara is a wonderful writer. She brings the characters to life, she expands on life on the ranch, the joys and difficulties. With weather, the animals and family.I loved the way Kens dad and mom instilled strength and good unselfish decision making in their sons.The first book, My Friend Flicka is just as enjoyable.
I loved this book even more then the first book, "My Friend Flicka" which I never even thought was possible. I think it's so cool how Thunderhead kills the albino and takes over his herd and keeps them in the valley of the eagles.
I love his story, which is a continuation of the author's first book about life, love and hard times growing up.
I read and reread and reread this book again and again while I was in middle school, in love with horses and just discovering boys. What a marvelous story.
Marital conflict (no cheating, no sex, no violence, just tension and arguments) and bloody fights between wild animals are described.
In addition, if you are looking for an accurate portrayal of wild horses… This isn't it.) This IS, however, a wonderfully written and captivating tale centered around the teenaged Ken and his loyal mare's colt, Thunderhead/Goblin.
Thunderhead is a wild creature, unable to be fully tamed, and with a purpose yet to be determined.
Ken is struggling through the angst of a boy becoming a man and trying to understand the disappointments of life.
Meanwhile, Nell and Rob struggle with a division deeper than they have ever known.
Es un libro completo de "pe" a "pa". Los personajes maduran todos, desde el más pequeño hasta el más anciano, hay problemas y soluciones, crecimiento, enseñanzas, buenos diálogos, una prosa increíble.He llorado como una magdalena en varias partes pues realmente me conmovió no solo la historia principal sino todo.Qué pena que no tenga la tercera parte.
Loved this one - Ken's expeditions in the mountains are such epic, beautiful moments of poetry.
Some things haven't changed : the nature written by Mary O'Hara is still so painfully beautiful - and what made me want to visit Wyoming.
Ken's trips in the mountains are still so exciting.
I also loved reading about Rob & Nell's relationship - Nell, in particular, is someone I'm identifying more with now; she's such an interesting character.
Thunderhead leaves me fearing to be done with the trilogy and forever wanting to go to Wyoming and visit that magical ranch.
This is the middle book of a trilogy.
I happened to pick up this book and I'm sure it would add to your reading pleasure if you had read the 1st volume (My Friend Flicka) but "Thunderhead" can be read as a stand-alone without any loss of understanding the story.
There is also a volume following "Thunderhead" called "Green Grass of Wyoming".This is supposed to be a kid's book but by no means is it juvenile.
In fact, it covers some aspects of life that usually aren't found in children's books such as family finances and problems between a husband and wife.I found it to be a good book and would recommend it.
I didn't read this book for a while even though I had read Flicka as I didn't like the name of the book. I was young at the time though and that is what I based my decision on. When I finally decided to read it, I thought it was a very enjoyable book. I would say though, personally that as a horse lover, I did get upset at certain point and I personally would not recommend to children under 12 years old.
I did not like this as much as I liked My Friend Flicka, but I'm still glad to have finally read it. Certainly, there are places where the story drags and my attention waned. When it's about Ken, and Thunderhead, horse racing and stallions fighting and exploring the mountains, those parts are wonderful and exciting. The time spent in Nell's head is less fun. A little was all right, but it takes up a huge portion of the book without contributing a lot to the horse story.
This book was, in my opinion, pointless and horrible. The whole plot with Thunderhead ended up meaning nothing, and the Rob/Nell subplot was pointless torture. There was no reason for it at all, and I just hated Rob and wished Nell would leave him. I came close to throwing this book out the window, I was so spitting mad. I kept going, though, hoping the resolution would make it all worth while, but it didn't.
I read Flicka years ago, had never read Thunderhead until now. A good part of the story focuses on Rob & Nell's relationship and the hardship of life on the ranch rather than the life and times of Thunderhead. Still an interesting story even if it was slow going some of the time, an insight into ideas about horsemanship in the 40s.
I know these books are always thought of as youth books, but I think that stops at Thunderhead. Very adult story that happens to be, in part, anyway, about a teen-aged boy. Or, perhaps, a better way to think about it is a very serious story for teenaged readers.I certainly liked it better than My Friend Flicka.
This one was as odd, in odd ways, as My Friend Flicka. I liked it better in some ways and not as much in others. Neither is my favorite book, but when I first heard Flicka as a kid I couldn't appreciate the west at all. Having lived in northern Colorado for a decade now, I can read both books much better.
This series is a CLASSIC!! I love them so very much, mostly because of everything! The personalizing of the horses, the breathtaking descriptions and even the people are perfect! (Not unbearably perfect. Just DECENT. No modern slang!) And if you're worrying about being too young to read this, I read it at 7! So read this if you love good writing, horses and old books!
Chronicles of Han Storm Book Club ReadA classical book describing life, relationships and survival in the Australian Bush. Subconsciously, the lessons stuck and helped me through tough times in my own life. A definite read for any child that likes animals.
Thunderhead was a bit over my head, like the rest the series, at the time when I picked it up. But I still remember it being compelling and I liked it better than My Friend Flicka. Needs a revisit, I think.
I enjoyed it very much. I would not classify it as a children's book as quite a bit of the story concerns problems between the parents of the teenage boys in the story. They live on a huge ranch in Wyoming and the father tries to support his family by raising and selling horses.
