https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3236307-graceling
But before you comment to let me know that I am a horrible disgrace and disappointment as a human for allowing my personal convictions to color my view of a book that I have read, please take a moment to know that I am not allowing any comments on this review.
But then she goes ahead and enters into a physical relationship with a guy because she "loves" him, but just can't ever be "married" to him because that would limit her sense of self and her own freedom to come and go as she pleased.
Graceling by Kristin Cashore follows in a burgeoning market for strong female characters.Katsa is much like Katniss from The Hunger Games in her naive perception of the world, her coldness and tendency towards pragmatic practicality.
So sick of reading about "strong, independent female characters" who don't like dresses and spend most of the novel putting down almost every other female character as weak and pathetic.
I mean, I don’t want to get married as well but Katsa’s reasoning behind this is not concrete or sufficient enough to support her viewpoint that she vehemently defends many times throughout the book.I was absolutely disgusted, 
The first instance that stuck me was when Po and Katsa were riding off somewhere and she slammed her horse against Po's because she wanted to get his attention.
Not to mention she ALWAYS pushes her horses to ride fast because she has no patience and wants to get there faster, and if someone tells her they needed to rest the horses or they'll break them, she just throws hissy fits about how they have to hurry and they're just slowing her down.
When a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?  Authors, take note:  This is YA Lit done right.Katsa is a monster. She's been one ever since she discovered the power of her killing Grace. Only...she starts to wonder, does she have to be?In the Graceling Realm, those born with heterochromia (different colored eyes) are blessed with a Grace. A Grace can be anything from the mundane (i.e. holding your breath indefinitely) to the cruel (i.
Only...she starts to wonder, does she have to be?In the Graceling Realm, those born with heterochromia (different colored eyes) are blessed with a Grace.
Katsa has been "blessed" with a killing grace.
When a mysterious prince - one with a silver eye and a gold eye and graced with fighting - visits to her kingdom, she finds herself questioning everything she's ever done.First off - abso-freaking-lutely loved this premise.
Second off - I loved Katsa's strength.
I adored between Katsa and her beau (Po) and I will defend their love to my dying day.
First thing I need to point out is that I consider myself a feminist, even as far as to take an active role is such matters. Previously, I have written articles on Feministing and I honestly think so many of these issues are still very important in today's world. However you look at it, the battle for equality has not been won and has, in fact, become rather dormant.On that note, I love reading fiction by feminist writers, Atwood never fails to deliver and The Handmaid's Tale is one of my favou
However you look at it, the battle for equality has not been won and has, in fact, become rather dormant.On that note, I love reading fiction by feminist writers, Atwood never fails to deliver and The Handmaid's Tale is one of my favourite books of all time.
And, don't get me wrong, I never really disliked Katsa because the fact that she refuses to wear a dress and doesn't want children is entirely her choice and that's what's important.
It fit nicely around the main characters but I found the love story to hold most of my attention and that's why I've decided that I don't want to read Fire.
So, what's the matter with Graceling's world?Why Graceling's World-building Simply Isn't Good EnoughFirst off, there are only a few fresh aspects of this world:1.) The idea of the Graced2.) Some cultural aspects of the Lienid (like the gold jewelry, Po's tattoos, and the ring/inheritance thing....and that's pretty much it.
You might too, if you:1.) Love a good kick-ass heroine2.) Are looking for a fun adventure3.) Want lots of action in your fantasy4.) Love reading about kind, noble men in love with misfit girlsBut you might not if you:1.) Are looking for a deep exploration of feminist ideas2.) Require complex, original world-building3.) Need complex characters4.) Want a complex plotFinal Comment: Graceling isn't a bad book.
First of all, Katsa acts like a petulant little girl throughout the entire book, not some strong feminist poster woman.
This book is written in such a way that it makes me think Cashore, the author, is using her character, her story as a vehicle to voice her very strong opinions.
kthanxbai." *sob* "Walking away is waaaaay hard, which is why I am so strong." *sob* "Grrrrrrrrrrrrrl Powerrrrrr!" Yeah, because being in a loving, trusting, equal and committed relationship isn't a sign of strength.
Had the tables been turned, had Po hit Katsa for voicing her opinion, you people would be unbelievably angry.
no, love.talking about this book is like trying to describe to someone a relationship from long ago that was bittersweet and is now over, but i have never had a relationship that involved so many horses and swordplay, not even metaphorically.
(i see you ariel - you are glowering at me with tiny slitted eyes)but this book is like a wonderfully sweet relationship.
at the beginning, you can't even imagine how you ever got along without it.and your friends (ariel) try to talk you out of it "oh, don't get with that guy, he gave me herpes" or whatever...
even liking a book ariel said was bad...come to my blog!
Watch my review here:https://youtu.be/4h7n2qCWtlQ
I still loved the book though =) I am in love with Katsa!
I wish I had her Grace :) The characters in the book are so wonderful, even the evil jerks are played out very well.
Katsa isn't like normal women, well that's obvious, but she doesn't care about any of the every day things women care about.
You will have to read the book to see where that goes.
I enjoyed all of the fighting and sparring between Po and Katsa.
:)Did I mention Katsa has some cool eyes!
I am so glad I finally got to read this book, it is sooooo awesome!
When a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?   So fun fact, this is probably one of my most reread books of all time, and it was such a big influence on both what I write and what I love to read, and I love and appreciate it more every time. And I’d love if you all could appreciate it too along with me?This book opens with a scene in which Katsa, a character graced with the skill to kill people - literally, actually murder them - pu
And I’d love if you all could appreciate it too along with me?This book opens with a scene in which Katsa, a character graced with the skill to kill people - literally, actually murder them - putting a group of guards out cold rather than killing them in order to spare their lives while trying to rescue a falsely imprisoned old man.
In summary: kickass girl heroines, an absolutely ICONIC romance, and possibly my favorite character arc of all time (not joking I love Katsa!!!).
For the longest time I myself refused idea of marriage and I don't have kids, but even I find Katsa's unyielding desire to never marry or to commit strange, considering her journey in this novel.
My answer is "no." I am not propagating marriage here in any way, but I do feel that Katsa at the least is insecure and doesn't trust Po's love for her and at the most is selfish in her petulant decision to stay her own woman by refusing any claim Po can possible have on her (be that a wife or a life partner).
4 StarsOverview:  “When a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?”  I honestly didn’t know anything about this, but I'd seen it around and finally it was recommended enough. I was really surprised by the depth of this story and the characters. The story revolves around Katsa, who lives in a world where people can be born with a ‘Grace.’ Meaning, aside from two-different eye colors, they have an exceptional skill. Katsa’s grace is killin
The story revolves around Katsa, who lives in a world where people can be born with a ‘Grace.’ Meaning, aside from two-different eye colors, they have an exceptional skill.
Katsa's overall character arc is gradual but definite.
What I didn’t like about Giddon was how random his feelings for Katsa seemed.
I didn’t quite like how Po gave Katsa permission to “knock him out” when she needed time to herself, but do think he was an important decision for her to make regarding her development.
Self-righteous outrage is so much easier.But you know, people who don't agree with the book's feminine philosophy actually do have a right to that opinion, too.
As someone who believes that women are capable of carving out whatever life they want (though, I might add, Katsa is not nearly so tolerant of other women's choices) and not being as aware of how politically charged that word has become in denigrating causes/beliefs, I didn't read the same kinds of negative connotations into it that clearly others have.
An unfortunate choice in words that I've come to regret.
Soooo I thought this was some kind of Hunger Games-type dystopian story about a girl who could kill with her touch for some reason and put off reading it because I wasn't huge on Shatter Me. BUT then this turned out to be full of castles and princes and everything I love so that was a fun surprise!I'm extremely neutral about this book, though.
Some better worldbuilding or character development would've helped a lot.I think I've just read so many other books about girl assassins/killers at this point that I needed a unique element or stronger story.
Gah sooo good!Okay, I read some of the other reviews and now I feel the need to defend this book.
Basically, I think it's completely hilarious how many people are shocked and appalled that 1) there is sex in this book, and 2) the heroine does not desire to get married or have children.
Also, the fact that the heroine doesn't want to get married or have kids is shocking to you because EVERY OTHER WOMAN OR GIRL IN EVERY BOOK YOU'VE READ THIS YEAR is aiming for that brass ring of Mrs.-dom and 2.5 mini-Hims.
The dialogue she put in the ten-year-old princess's mouth was not believable in the slightest; maybe Cashore should spend some time around pre-adolescent girls to get an idea of what they really talk like.2.
The psychology of several of the characters (including Katsa, the protagonist) is described rather than motivated, which made it hard for me to follow/believe certain pivotal points in the plot.3.
Several scenes--including the climax!--are very low on descriptive language, which had a very distancing effect.The idea of "superheroes" in a semi-medieval setting is interesting, but it could have been handled better than it was here.
You know the quiet, loving hero who worships the ground his heroine walks on and yet is reasonably kickbutt himself, while at the same time deferring to the heroine's wishes and not fulfilling any of his own?
And best wishes to the youth who read this and decide that sex isn't a big deal, that it can happen as long as you KNOW you're in love (because, obviously, it's easy to know when you're that age), and that 'marriage' is a synonym for 'slavery'.
This started off really well and I was actually enjoying it, but around page 230 I started to drift away from the plot and (view spoiler)[Po's sudden love confession for Katsa (hide spoiler)] really annoyed me because I did not like their romantic relationship.
The plot started to bore me and I suddenly disliked Katsa's character after page 230 or somewhere around that.
I was just reading, then dozing off bc #bored AND BOOM, all of a sudden Po is like "I LOVE YOU" *tears stream down Katsa's face*.
She grasps the fairytale feel by the hand and wrote this story about a girl who is stronger than her male-counterparts and believes in being a strong, independent woman who doesn’t need a man.
But she doesn’t like doing what she is doing and doesn’t see a way out of it until she meets a fellow Graceling named Po. He is a skilled fighter as well, but not as good as Katsa.
I didn’t know I needed to read this book until I was finally in the middle of it.
I feel as if not only women and girls need to read this, but boys and men.
I can only review what I have read.)On a high note, Cashore does earn significant Brownie points for making Katsa unapologetically sexual, and for adding a nice little birth control accent to round off the whole sex thing on a safe note.
In the background, Katsa is laughing.BOOM #2: PlotThe plot of this book was strong, though a lot of time was spend riding around on horses to nowhere.
That said, I have some qualms about recommending this book.A lot has been said about Katsa, the heroine who swears never to marry or have children (but decides it's okay to take a lover).
Katsa's anti-marriage, anti-children attitude seemed unnecessarily stringent, and unlikely to be such a completely final decision in a very young woman, maybe 20 years old.
I also liked (view spoiler)[ how Katsa was able to break away from her uncle, the king who had been using her as a strong arm/assassin for so many years (hide spoiler)].Content advisory: Sex scene with mild explicitness.
I mean, you need a good, kind, loving man who is very tolerant to allow himself to be treated the way Katsa does him.
She writes a world that looked a lot like our own, but the people in it gave this book the fantasy feel.
I think this book sends a good message to younger readers in how she handles some tough issues such as using power in a way that is helpful and not selfish and hurtful to others.Okay, now I'll talk about the romance: It was scintillating, completely appealing.
Hm. The hardest thing about this book is that it COULD HAVE BEEN SO GOOD. I started out loving everything about it and ready to recommend it to everyone. But then it started reading like a feminist/anti-marriage/anti-kids campaign platform (okay - that might be a little much, but you started to feel that the author had an agenda). It was just really disappointing, because I loved the characters so much. Oh well. Also - even though it's considered a YA novel, there is sex in it. Pretty disappointing.
I really enjoyed the history and mainly the amazing kingdom that the writer has created .I know that many will believe it is something unfair my punctuation and I respect that because this series has a lot of fans, but I have not felt comfortable with the idea of putting more because I liked but I haven't loved as I thought it would  “I'm not going to wear a red dress," she said."It would look stunning, My Lady," she called.She spoke to the bubbles gathered on the surface of the water. "If ther
Not that it detracts to the plot, it is that for me the main character is important and therefore my feelings for her.Another thing that left me unhappy is the romance in the story, I do not like at all, and I am a person of romances, that is, for me is escensial in the plot, but in this book I have found it unconvincing and somewhat forced, I fails to connect with it at all, so I found myself very boring in the love moments, waiting for the action, which had never happened with me before.
Really enjoyed this! The plot took a while to kick in but I loved the characters and I have a new ship!The audiobook has a full cast and is so well performed! Rep: Blindness (harmful rep). The character does have magical abilities that give him heightened other senses that "make up for" his disability. Content: A father with gross intentions toward his daughter. I couldn't quite tell if this was incest or other physical violence. He is said to enjoy torturing other children and animals. Some of the animal torture is described briefly.
So this book is about a "graced" girl called Katsa.
Together, they try to uncover the mystery behind the kidnap of Po's grandfather.I enjoyed the plot of the book and the relationships between the characters especially Katsa and Po. The book was confusing at the beginning when they were describing the world and the seven kingdoms within it.
It was hard to keep up but thankfully not all seven kingdoms were relevant to the story.One thing I did not like very much was the writing because there were a lot of repetitive phrases.
But it does not only refer to singing or dancing, it could be that you are Graced with holding your breath for 30 mins without dying or killing like in the case of Katsa, the heroine of the story.
If it’s two different eye colors, then voila you’ve spotted a Graceling.A Graceling if deemed worthy will serve under the king’s order whether they like it or not.
But Cashore being cunning that she is, created someone, a one-eyed king, who can matched Katsa not by strength but by something more powerful and evil.The love story was just like wow.
I thought the secret council was a cool concept, but I found it extremely unlikely that one of the seven kings wouldn't have heard about it given that it was supposed to be this far-reaching thing that tons of people apparently knew about.
The thing about this book that I hated the most was the bratty, unpleasant, and self-absorbed main character.
Also, was I supposed to see her as an empowering/feminist character because she dresses in men's clothing and shuns everything that's even a little bit feminine?
this is a young adult novel, and even though this issue of perception versus reality is something that everyone at every age can wrestle with, it is of special importance to young adults because that's a particular time period of self-searching, figuring out your identity, and reacting to whatever box you may be in or whatever box others may be trying to put you in.
and that message is woven throughout the book, through most of its characters, from its protagonists to the two probably-gay characters to the foolish guy who loves Katsa to the fascinating and horrendous villain.
