https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148417.The_President_s_Lady
Rachel Jackson married the future 7th President of the USA, Andrew Jackson, while still married to her abusive first husband, Lewis Robards, although she was not aware at the time that her divorce had not been granted after all.Rachel is soon ostracized by the community as a 'fallen woman' once Robards divorces her for adultery, ruining Rachel's reputation even though Jackson's political career was not affected.Stone relates the tale of Rachel's humiliation in excruciating detail and I have to say this is one of the most depressing books I've ever read.
(Age before I actually had a boyfriend: 19.) So anyways, sweary girl #1 said "What's his name?" And I thought "oh crap crap crap I never made up a name for him" (except, obviously I was saying a word worse than "crap" in my head), and so I blurted out, "Uh...Andrew Jackson." It was just the first name that came to my head.
Also, it showed how mature and loving our relationship was, in that we teased each other so comfortably about things like our names.
So anyways, I don't know zilch about my 4th grade boyfriend, Andrew Jackson.
Stone wrote this as a biographical novel which he informs us is a story told with only actual people, rather than a historical novel which may introduce fictional characters into the story even though it is written of a real person.
This is the love story between Andrew Jackson and his wife, Rachel, beginning when they are in their early 20s and she is the young wife of another man and ending when he is a new president serving in 'Washington City' and he has recently buried his most beloved wife.
A very good read for those who love historical fiction.
Interesting and informative.
(view spoiler)[The book “The President’s Lady” is a romance based through the late 18th century to the early 19th century, giving its readers an insight into the southern frontier while it was still in the process of being developed.
The author, Irving Stone, is a well known author who writes historical fiction, and in this book, he wrote about the struggles that Andrew and Rachel Jackson had to go through.
For Irving, it was being accurate in terms of what happened in the book actually happened, and in Kim Robinson’s case, the tools and science that they characters used were also true to science.
Even though this was historical fiction, it helped me to put into context the facts that I've read about both Rachel and Andrew Jackson's lives. I was able to picture what it was like for Rachel to raise two children that weren't her own. It was also heartbreaking to see the damage that false gossip can do to people's lives.
I know that Andrew Jackson is not always the most beloved president (he is responsible for the Cherokee Trail of Tears), but this historical novel about his youth and marriage really sheds light on his character and the things that he struggled with.
The love of his life was Rachel, he never married again, and she died just as he was elected to the presidency.
Rachel had been married young, to a scoundrel who later divorced her.
Shortly after her marriage to Jackson, it came to light that the divorce was not finalized, and she was charged with bigamy.
I loved this book! Irving Stone continues to be one of my most favorite authors. I love his books because they are called historical novels, not historical fiction. All the characters in his books are real and his bibliography for this book is over 100 sources used in compiling the story. I have so much respect for Rachel Jackson, and my heart breaks for her. The opinions of the public are so fickle and violent. I learned so much about the history and culture of the nation during the early 1800's. Amazing people and amazing times!
There marriage was celebrated in isolation without most of his family members and friends present.
Rachel was first married to Lewis Robbards, a man who was insanely jealous.
During this tumultuous years, Rachel met Andrew Jackson, a man he considered to be affectionate and loving like her father.
Their opportunity to love was born after Lewis' plan to attack Rachel and take his wife by force.
At the time it was impossible for Rachel to marry in Virginia due to her first marriage to Lewis.
However, good news through Jackson's friend John, reached them in Cumberland.
3.5 The story of Rachel and Andrew Jackson's marriage.
Very interesting to read of the history of the US in the early 1800's.
Her family helped found Nashville and settle Tennessee.
She married a man who abused her and was terribly jealous.
Throughout their lives the Jackson's had to fight his enemies claiming Rachel to be a whore.
Jackson took on the world head on sometimes failing mightily and other times with great victory.
Rachel was left to run and keep them above water for months at a time while Andrew was slaying dragons but their love prevailed.
Really a 2.5 stars--I really liked the first half, but not so much the second half. It dragged on, because it's impossible to cover 40 years of marriage without getting a little too long. I feel like he should have just covered their courtship and first few years of marriage, because that's where all the interesting stuff was.
Stone isn't my favorite, but he sure is amazing at bringing history to life. I learned so much about Jackson and his wife, Rachel. It's a quite a sad story but good.
This is a novel about the life of Rachel Jackson, wife of President Andrew Jackson.
Life was not easy in the late 1700's, especially if you were a woman stuck in an awful marriage.
Rachel Jackson was married and her life was stormy and basically awful.
She hears her husband has gone to the state legislature and gets a divorce.
For the rest of her life she pays for this as the story she heard about her husband getting a divorce was false.
Seems like all this dies down only to be brought up again each time Andrew goes to war or in politics.
Irving Stone is always one of my favorite authors.
I especially enjoyed learning more about Rachel and Andrew Jackson and their tumultuous life together against the background of a time when history was being made.
It was especially eye opening to see how difficult life was for women who were facing abusive situations.
It was also interesting to see how many failures Andrew Jackson had in his lifetime before he was elected to the presidency.
It was not an easy time for anyone.
Irving Stone has given us enough historical facts, interwoven with the story line, to make it a very interesting read.
A gracious ladyI have loved the movie, starting Charleton Heston & Susan Hayward, since I first saw it & really wanted to read the book..
As a Creek Indian, whose family members were slaughtered at Horseshoe Bend, I couldn't get Andrew Jackson's hatred & murder of Indians out of my head.
I found that as hard to get beyond as the multitudes of typos in the book.
I had to remember that this was a story of Rachel to continue reading this book.
She was an amazing lady married to a man fueled by anger, hatred, & a woman who loved him absolutely.
Andrew would forever fight for Rachel, for himself and their family's good name.Jackson has always been a dreadful President in my eyes because he was responsible for the Cherokee Trail of Tears, but author Irving Stone tells the story of his youth and marriage and shares the reality of events that shaped Jackson's character and the things that he struggled with.
In 1806 he fought a duel and killed Charles Dickinson, a young lawyer who initially had accused Andrew Jackson of reneging on a horse bet, calling him a coward and an equivocator.
Charles Dickinson also called Rachel Jackson a bigamist.
I really liked the first half of the book. But then it veered to everything about General Jackson and his exploits in the War of 1812 and thereafter. It got pretty dry at the second half of the book, which is disappointing because I really enjoyed the first half of the book. There were no mention of the numerous foster kids that they mentored, other than the one they adopted. It is disappointing in that regards.I am glad that I read this though.
Biographical novel, love historical fiction, don’t know if I have ever read a biographical history before. Enjoyed it very much, not really very informed about Andrew Jackson and I always enjoy reading about the women who make the men who they become. The political arena was not a great deal different than what goes on today. Haven’t read novels by Erving Stone either, must try another.
Interesting--especially learning about the early settling of Tennessee. My biggest issue is, basically, me being a basic feminist witch and asking "why couldn't the book title have her name in it--Rachel Donelson Jackson--instead of making her the possession of a man. Wah wah. I'm just going to hop on my broom and swoop on out.
ReaderA very interesting, true life love story of the President of our country and his beloved wife, friend and companion.
So well written! So interesting!
ProlificIrving Stone is a prolific author. The love story of Andrew and Rachel Jackson is lovely, sad, heartwarming. Historical Fiction based on true events and facts.
3.5 stars I enjoyed this peek into Andrew Jackson's early years and learning about his wife.
A fascinating read! I didn't know much at all about Rachel and Andrew Jackson, so really enjoyed reading this and learned a lot of American history at the same time.
Pleasant enough but quite heavy on the sap.
Good ReadThis was a very interesting book about Rachel Jackson and her husband Andrew. I learned a lot about Andrew and his temper and his love of Rachel.
He mourned his wife's death for the rest of his life.The Jacksons' marriage was definitely a love match for them right from the beginning, however many of Andrew's financial decisions caused the couple to lose much of their fortune at certain times in history.
The couple rebuilt that fortune multiple times, but could never entirely tamp down the scandal of Rachel's first marriage and divorce.Andrew Jackson was known to have an incendiary temper, challenging three men to duels by the time he was forty years old.
Charles Dickinson also called Rachel Jackson a bigamist and Andrew Jackson demanded the satisfaction of a duel for that insult.
Everyone ought to read more history or at least well-researched historical fiction; it really does put current events into perspective.
Before I started googling the information I was reading, I thought, "Gosh, I don't know that I would have liked or elected Jackson." Although he deeply loved, admired and was devoted to his wife, he was hotheaded, controversial and followed by scandals for most of his life for both personal and political reasons.
Despite the sometimes tedious detail, it's still a much more relatable way to learn about historical events - through the eyes and perspective of a real person.
I read Irving Stone years ago, but don't think I had ever read this one. I thoroughly enjoyed getting to more about Andrew Jackson and his wife in such an engaging way. I always love what Stone does with characters, making history seem real.
I had not read Irving Stone heretofore, and now I'm [sort of] glad.On the positive side: his self stated deep research of the time and of course the Jacksons, is borne out by the bibliography and is laudable.
Although Stone ponts out in his Introduction that he has tried to recreate the language of the time, the result is the stuff of pure Harlequin romance; maudlin beyond tolerance.
Of course, the novel was written sixty years ago and who knows if he and I saw the same decor and meticulous upkkep of the entire estate.I've tried to no avail, to find a DVR or VHS of the film.
