https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171362.The_Mediterranean_and_the_Mediterranean_World_in_the_Age_of_Philip_II_Volume_I
This is true of his monumental Civilization and Capitalism, and it is true of his masterpiece, << The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World in the Age of Philip II >>, a large, dense two-volume work that he labored on (despite a hiatus of some 15 years) from 1927, when it began life as a standard sort of historical dissertation on the diplomatic history of the second half of the 16th century (the decline of Spain under Philip II), under the direction of a certain, long-forgotten Georges Pagés, but which then came increasingly under the spell and influence of the great Lucien Febvre, co-founder with Marc Bloch of the Annales School -- whereupon it grew and grew and grew, both in size and in complexity and scope… until its first publication, marking its submission for the doctoral thesis, in 1949 ( -- the first draft was famously written largely from memory while imprisoned by the Germans at Lübeck –), and then was taken up again and thoroughly revised from 1964-1966.
The thing is, you're going to need to take this "total history" piece by piece and decide if it works for you.What Braudel does here, ostensibly, is tell the story of the Mediterranean world during the second half of the sixteenth century, during the reign of Philip II of Spain.
I think that is its use, really - I will remember, occasionally, hey, Braudel had that interesting bit on the four different major trade routes north from the Mediterranean, I should reread that chapter and see whether it helps me understand this other thing I'm reading.
Here: "...The great cities remained in their dominating positions, with the advantages of high prices, high wages, and many customers for their shops, while satellite towns surrounded them, looked towards them, used them and were used by them,.
'...famine and the wheat problem.' The sixteenth century was not always kind to urban communities.
If the danger increased, sterner measures were taken: the number of mouths to feed was reduced, the city gates were closed, or else foreigners were expelled, the normal course at Venice, unless they had brought enough grain....
(I will never forget the succinct beauty of his definition of brigandry, the "street-crime" of the era, which he described as "an endless and ultimately fruitless form of social rebellion." He makes sure you know the empires that existed at that time, and explains their specific clashes as well as how civilization clashes in general work.After you've got ALL that down after reading 900 pages about environment, culture, economy, empire, and war, Braudel feels you are ready for part III, which explains the specific events and people of the 50 year period he is examining.
The type of history Braudel includes but which everyone except Herodotus omits is the gritty, granular, vernacular, minutiae of those distant, romantic ages.
For instance, if you want to know what winter pastures were favored by shepherds in ancient Macedonia, Braudel has that.
If you want to know the distribution of fanatic Christian vs fanatic Muslim mountain cults after the Crusades, Braudel has that.
If you want to know how European wheat prices rose with the influx of Peruvian silver brought back in Spanish galleons, Braudel has that too.
Started reading this a few years ago, but never got very far into it. I would like to return to it. Braudel is of course a monumental historian of the last century, and his Civilization and Capitalism is probably thought even more highly of than this work. However I own both volumes of Mediterranean World, and only the first volume of the other (The Structure of Everyday Life).
"If Italy took no part in the great movement of colonization of distant territories the reason is perhaps partly to be sought in her preoccupation with reclaiming all available land within her own frontiers, from the flooded plains to the mountain peaks.""The importance of the shore was such that the coastal route was scarcely different from a river ... Only the big specialized salt and grain ships had any resemblance to the destination-conscious shipping of today. The others were more like travelling bazaars."
Quite some time ago, there was a photo on BGG of a bookshelf with the poster's references for a game on the Battle of Lepanto (I have no idea how the game is coming along), and Braudel's two volume work on the period was on it.
These are grouped into larger subjects (subchapters), and those into chapters, and those into three parts split across two volumes.
It is big, weighty, history and it is not something to read to get interested in the subject, it is for when you already are interested, and want as much information as you can get on the Mediterranean (and surrounds) in the period 1550-1600.
This is a seminal work by a great historian. Two volumes written after 1940 when Braudel was a prisoner of war in Germany, working from memory. The breadth of this is astonishing.First submitted as a doctoral thesis to the Sorbonne in 1947, it established Braudel as a leader of the Annales school. The scale of his topic is breathtaking. Arguing that the Mediterranean is a sea sourrounded by mountains, he then goes on to explain how civilizations in the Mediterranean are shaped by their geography. Impressive.
I didn't even really need to read 200 pages to get this guy's deal- particularly when about 100 of it (or maybe that's just how long it felt) was about sixteenth century grain prices.Love the idea. His statement of purpose at the beginning makes me want to hug him. The execution.... could have used a pick me up or two, to say the least.
The second volume tackles culture, civilization and politics.The overall sense is of layers of detail built up by the historian that show the rhythms and patterns of daily, monthly and seasonal life across the region.
Finally, on top of all of that will come the political events and actions of the elites.This is a book that is frequently quoted and referenced and so I felt it was time I actually read it.
However, I won’t really know if it has all been worth it until I get to the end of the second volume when hopefully the full value of reading the first will be clear.

A great reading to understand the socio economic structure of the Mediterranean in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. Stepping aside from the "History made from momentary events" and following an historical analysis method that is systemic, structural and holistic, allowing the reader to gain a full understanding of the problems that were faced by those societies as a whole.One of the masterpieces of Fernand Braudel.
I discovered this book in a second hand bookshop in Stirling in the late 1970s. It opened up a completely new perspective on history. I then read everything I could find by Braudel and the Annales school. I constantly reread both volumes and was the Folio Society presentation volumes by my daughter for my birthday a few years ago. It is not just Braudel's innovative approach to history that has been so influential but also his ability to write in such an engaging style.
After many years of reading bits and pieces of this «annales» masterpiece, I've finally managed to read it in its entirety. Even in translation, it remains one of the most important and profound works of twentieth-century history which, despite its structuralist leanings, ultimately emphasizes the vital post-structuralist importance of population dynamism and inter-cultural exchange.
Politics, economy, society, folklore, nature, geography and every other aspect of life during Mediterranean late middle ages & early modern period.This book is a brilliant work and I soon I will go for the second volume.The only thing I would recommend to those of you who speak french, is to read the original work. The english translation of the book suffers from time to time.
The best history book still alive, read straight through once, and rifled through for 20 years, this book has helped shape my view of all things maritime, Mediterranean, commercial, and numerous processes and connections between place and event, such as hinterland and coast.And I will never forget his reference to Venice as the place of agile and dangerous capitalism.
Total history. That shit cray.
Ein sehr schoen geschriebenes Buch, voller Dinge, die man bisher noch nicht gewusst hat, oder die einem bislang noch nicht bewusst waren, leider komm ich nur sehr langsam voran.
Autorul nu se lasă influențat de prejudecăți sau reducționisme chiar dacă firul poveștii îl duce de-a lungul a mai multor culturi, culminând cu cea mai importantă bătălie navală dintre creștinii occidentali și musulmani, ultima mare confruntare a galerelor de la Lepanto, din 1571, la care au luat parte peste 400 de nave[3].Argumentul major se referă la unitatea socială a spațiului mediteranean, cu o istorie îndelungată, care și-a menținut coerența în ciuda disensiunilor politice și religioase, mai ales a celor dintre creștini și musulmani, Braudel distanțându-se, în consecință de teza clasică a lui Henri Pirenne[4].
In this volume, Braudel explains the relation between history and the slowly changing features of Mediterranean, such as seas, rivers, mountains, deserts, climate, roads and cities. I recommend this to everyone who is interested in Early Modern European history, for the book will provide a unique insight into geography and history.Pros:-Analysis of effects of geography on Mediterranean history, some comparisons with Northern Europe-Lengthy list of sources and footnotes, can be quite useful for researchers-Lots of examplesCons:-Sometimes feels like a collection of random facts (looking at you, summer and winter pastures of sheep in Upper Provence)-Little to no comparative statistics
It is superb, as everyone who has any interest in either history, Europe, or the Mediterranean knows.The discussion of Islam in the 15th century as "what Europe triumphant was later to be on a world scale, a dominant economy and civilization" (p 187) follows a poetic description of the vast, sun-baked emptiness of the desert being a landed version of the Mediterranean itself.The importance of Naples as one of the two "monstrous" cities of the time (1595), Constantinople being the other was to this one-time visitor, astounding.These are but two of the (to me) highlights of a truly fascinatingly informative work.
Braudel's is a stunning accomplishment that makes the "Annals" version of historiography and the second volume of this work matter to look forward to.
It seemed I was getting his cognitive dump about everything he knows about the subject, complete with scholarly contention and debate.
I quit reading, something I rarely do after I've started a book.The one thing I did like about the book was that the publisher used footnotes rather than endnotes.
But I was at a loss to discern why some information was in the main text and other was in the footnotes.It's too bad, too, for his subject is of great interest.
Certainly a massive book dealing with details of life on the shores of the Mediterranean (and further, of course) in the 16th century.
The book is completely filled with "massive tiny" details, "witnessings" upon which Braudel paints a picture of the longue dureé movements in the Mediterranean.
Precisely this wealth of details, specifically economic details in the second part of the book, makes this book difficult to read at times.
Heavily and extensively referenced primarily with primary archival sources, this work remains a classic of historiography, for it is a starting point for anyone willing to learn about or research the world and life from the 16th century onwards.
Fernand Braudel's first volume of his magnum opus, on the everyday life in the Mediterranean at the end of the 16th century.
Absolutely splendid book.
Every historian should be measured to his level.
Such a rich book with so much attention to detail, giving you a much better idea of what it was like to live at that time.
One can truly relate to the people of the time.
A must read for anyone interested in history of a time and place that had a great influence on the general body of human civilisation.
Minutely detailed history of the Mediterranean with a focus on the Spanish Empire interests in the area. I mean minutely detailed from the price of wheat in Italy to the summer pasturing of sheep in Greece. Some may consider it boring but the threads of each detail are woven together by Braudel to create a beautiful and vibrant tapestry of the era. It's an excellent reference for anyone who has an interest in Spain, the Spanish Empire or what was happening in the Mediterranean during Philip II's reign.
A flawed and somewhat boring book, but nonetheless one that makes a case for macro-history and alternatives to the standard narrative. Braudel attempts to describe the large-scale patterns of the Mediterranean region in a long century, looking for the trends that remained fairly constant as well as the gradual changes, rather than focusing on the more immediate changes on recognizably human time-scales.
this book is a translated college text. very dry, but very interesting. it takes my time though, which is why i still haven't finished it since starting in 1999. *egads* It tends to be what I take with me on the airplane.
This is scholarship of the first class; you're going to be hard pressed to find a work of history that displays such an enormous command of erudition over such a large area and time period. The only issue with this book is that it is spectacularly boring.
An immense work of scholarship, I'm sure, but perhaps the most painful book I've ever read. Deadly dull. If you want to follow a single grain of rice around the Mediterranean, perhaps you'll have a different take on it.
