https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154244.Socialism
Before he read it, he was enamored with socialism.The super-popular (in his day) socialist American economist Robert Heilbroner said not long after the collapse of the Berlin Wall and most of the communist world in 1989, that "of course Mises was right." That's an incredibly ironic "of course," since Heilbroner made his name pushing various types of socialism during his long academic and best selling author career.The prominent (in Europe) Polish Socialist (1920s-30s) Oscar Lange said socialists should erect a statue to Mises, for his pointing out a critical flaw in socialism.
He was only partially being facetious.If even honest socialists such as these admit Mises was right, shouldn't you know what he said about socialism?Another huge benefit to reading this book is that Mises does not contend himself with only being critical of Socialism.
Foreword by the eminent F.A. Hayek, who notes that for young idealists such as himself returning to university studies after World War I, "its impact was profound." Ex-socialist that I am as well, this book has done the same: shown once again that ideas have consequences, and that when subjected to analysis, socialism is a bad idea, in part because like all Utopian schemes, it cannot be bothered with the logical consequences of its program; and it has no means of effectively accounting for or calculating anything in the economic sphere.
There are major structural problems with Socialism and with Capitalism.
This book is pure attack of a theory which the author clearly disagrees with, there is no science in this type of economic writing, just results justifying a point of view.
One of his points was that given the choice between Socialism and Capitalism the people would surely choose Socialism, because it takes from the rich and gives to the populace, but is a failing way to organize an economy.
This theory basically says that people are too dumb to have democracy.
I've yet to meet a person who advocated socialism after reading this book. For a shorter critique of the problems of calculation, Mises also wrote "Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth", which is also quite good, but significantly shorter.
The scope of his writings was broad; his analysis incisive.In this book, Von Mises undertakes the tasks of describing socialism and its implication for economics and the broader culture.
His thesis can be illustrated in these words: "If the control of private property is transferred to the State the property owner is only an official, a deputy of the economic administration."For Von Mises, it was either private ownership and therefore control of property, or else it was socialism.
Anything in between, as he argued elsewhere, is merely the free market on the road to totalitarian.
The answer you provide will tell you if you have private or government ownership.A key to Von Mises's objection to socialism is its inherent impossibility at total control.
However, von Mises loses me when he seeks to justify the Opium War. Even in the 1920s, the absurdity of the claim that "Not only each Chinese and each Hindu, but also each European and each American, would be considerably worse off" had it not been for England's aggressive attempts to open China to "Free Trade" should have been apparent.
Von Mises puts the blame on the Chinese people for failing to "abstain by [their] own impulse from enjoyments harmful to [their] organism" rather than on the state sponsored drug dealers who used England's military to open China to a trade in drugs banned in their own country.
This book is the root of position of classical liberalism and of libertarian thinking in the XX Century (Friedrich von heyek, Murray Rothbard).The socialism is showed as the better way to delete resources and civilization: if the political mens delete the free market, then they delete the system of price without another good way to determine the preferences and needed of people.
Suffers a bit from Lord of the Rings syndrome.
Reading Tolkein now can be weird, because a lot of LotR can seem cliche or common- but that's because LotR was the progenitor of the tropes that now seem overly familiar.
Likewise some of the stuff in the beginning of Mises's Socialism seems obvious/cliche to someone familiar with the likes of Friedman/Goldwater/Rand or basically any modern right-wing writers.
But that is because they are the intellectual children of Mises- and its interesting to see these ideas in their primal form.
The book as a whole is worth reading, but the epilogue is particularly excellent.
The book does make mention in the epilogue of the term Socialism diverging from its original synonymous usage with Communism, starting with its subtle change by Lenin and finally its more significant shift in meaning by Stalin.
Apparently Lenin differentiated by changing the meaning of Communism to refer to the aggressive revolutionary tactics he was advocating prior to the Bolshevik revolution and Socialism referred to the advocates of a slower evolutionary path to the same ultimate end.
Stalin then changed it again to refer to an incomplete Communism that focuses on dictating the means of production but not realizing the full potential of Marx’s doctrine.
I might disagree with some of his conclusions about Protestantism, but it touches on every aspect of what socialism is, how it works, and how it really affects mankind.He discusses it roots and shoots into communism and even how they differ, or how it was implemented differently than one would expect.
I'd call it a ponzie scheme - as long as there is money to steal from the rich, it will appear to work.Once they're gone, it collapses like a house of cards.My only problem with the book is its length; its long.
But to touch on every aspect of the subject, that is what was needed.
Socialism: An Economic and Sociological AnalysisFirst published in German in 1922 but not published in English until 1951, Socialism, is a thorough debunking of the possibility of Socialism in a world where humans act with purpose...the real world, that is.Mises was a scholar in the classical sense so prepare to have a dictionary handy if you ever decide to read any of his books.
I've been reading him for decades and still his vocabulary astounds me.I don't actually recommend reading most of this book unless your purpose is to intellectually combat Socialists in the political arena.
But, if you are interested in that sort of thing, this book should be your field guide.
Exceptional analysis of Socialism both sociologically and economically. Mises does an extraordinary job in this work in inquiring the arguments for and against Socialism, leaving no objection unanswered. Socialism prevailed then, wreaked havoc in the 20th century, and still prevails today, hundred years later. Liberals (in the 19th-century definition) today has a duty, to not give in to evil, but to go even stronger against it. As Mises said, 'tu ne cede malis, sed contra auterior ito.'
von Mises systematically destroys all of the arguments in favor of socialism with clear logic in this well written treatise.
Every so called Socialist should read this book.
Jednak centralne planowanie nie może prowadzić racjonalnego rachunku ekonomicznego, ponieważ wartość jest postrzegana przez ludzi subiektywnie.
Zysk i strata jest cenną informacją o tym, czy wartość dobra konsumpcyjnego przewyższa wartość dóbr produkcyjnych użytych do jego produkcji.
Rządowy planista nie jest wstanie zebrać tych informacji, przez to zawsze będzie działał na ślepo(lub według swoich wartościowań ignorując rzeczywiste potrzeby ludzi).
W następnych rozdziałach autor zajmuje się opisem różnych rodzajów socjalizmu, jak socjalizm militarystyczny, chrześcijański, państwowy, gildii czy nawet takie twory jak syndykalizm.
Autor pokazuje także, że socjalizm nie jest zgodny z demokracją.
Jak pokazuje historia, autor nie mylił się w tej kwestii.
How The Superbowl Promotes Socialism:http://generation-add.blogspot.com/20...         <
A quite challenging read, it took me a good while to finish.
It describes socialism in all aspects: with respect to property, politics, economics, ideology, philosophy, etc.
I must admit I winced a bit at von Mises description of the romantic (in his view, socialism being a romantic dream) because it so closely described me as a young man: "the romantic imagines the pleasures of success but does nothing to achieve them.
He has a grudge against reality because it is not like the dream world he has created." If you're up for a challenge, I highly recommend this book.
Actually read only parts of this great and weighty tome, but enough to get von Mises' decisive, devastating, and unanswerable refutation of central planning and social engineering. By the 20th century's most important economist, not as well known as he should be or as well known as his most famous student, Friedrich Hayek.
This is a good introduction to Austrian Economics. Mises is among my favorite economist because he is very his arguments are practical and expressed in a logical, accessable to anyone platform. Read this book...or atleast parts of it (Its super long).
Devastating critique of not just Socialism, but statism.
Exceptional, a must read for every aspiring economist. My words would not do Mises justice.
I am amazed at how relevant a book like this is with regards to current sentiments about the economy.
Should be obligatory for anyone who intents to say anything in public.
An amazing book. Herr Von Mises does an excellent job explaining this complex subject. I could go on and on but I won't.
Incredibly detailed analysis of how socialism cannot not work and attempts to remove economic freedom from the individual destroy prosperity.
One of the cornerstones of the Austria School of Economics.
None
