https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16431.Sole_Survivor
Classic Dean Koontz. A good story, some gruesome bits, lots of action and a touch of the paranormal. An undemanding and thoroughly enjoyable read.
On one hand, it was a pretty cool story, and the action near the end was very suspenseful and engaging.
I find many books have an issue of just being too long which causes the story to drag.
Overall I found it to be like most Koontz books, in that they are good but never quite reach great.
It's not as confusing as it sounds, but it did take me out of the story slightly.Overall this was a good book that could have been great with some edits.
I did enjoy it, and would recommend it to suspense fans.
This is the worst of his books that I have read so far.
As with most of his books, there is an interesting concept - cloning.
I thought the main character was annoying and dumb.
Of course, I understand his desire to find the daughter he thinks is alive, but the way he acted really frustrated me and I never really felt any sympathy for him except in the beginning when I didn't know his character well enough.
I could actually say that I almost skimmed this whole book, just to see what the end result was - that's how bad I thought it was.
I read this book as part of a group read with Koontzland for the month of May 2017. This was an emotional rollercoaster, it was an insight into a grieving father's healing process and it also has a little bit of The firestarter by Stephen King.
A bit of Firestarter by Stephen King. A bit of Runner by Patrick Lee. A tragic plane accident turns into something so much more. Koontz takes you on a bizarre spiritual adventure questioning our mortality, destiny, and how far some might go to keep that knowledge/power for themselves and use it for evil.While this story is packed with action and conspiracy, it will most likely leave you asking a lot of "What if?" questions about life as well.
I certainly wasn't expecting this to turn into a preachy bs book.Oh well.
I have some of his books that I really liked, Tick Tock and Life Expectancy to name a few.
Let's just say I was expecting a horror novel and this isn't.The book is all about a man who is suffering after the loss of his wife and two daughters in a plane crash.
It felt like the book started out to be one thing and Koontz forgot how he started the story so it ended as if it was a different story.
I have already had enough books to complete the challenge more than two times and this is not what I was expecting being at the top of several horror fiction lists.
Favorite Passages:Out of the thin blood-filtered light, into the hallway where a funerary stillness of shadows stood sentinel, toward the enormous chandelier that hung in a perpetual crystal rain above the foyer staircase, he ran.______Their eyes were, without exception, calm pools in which he saw humbling depths of acceptance and a kindness like moonlight on water .
Ever since, a shift seemed to be progressing with gathering power and speed, as though the world of Einsteinian laws had intersected with a universe where the rules of energy and matter were so different as to baffle the wisest mathematicians and the proudest physicists.This new reality was both more piercingly beautiful and more fearsome than the one that it replaced.
And while this shouldn't matter (after all, where would such things be better suited than in a work of fiction?) it is so out of place with the actual story, and has little to no relevance to it, that it detracts from the story itself.
While Sole Survivor is ultimately a religious message, there was no need nor relevance in attempting to dismiss evolution or erroneously claiming that most scientists have come to realise it isn't true and that science is continually 'proving' the fact of intelligent design, to get that message across.
It’s a first taste of things to come in “From the Corner of His Eye”, but also the Chris Snow books, as if Koontz is testing the waters with some variety of his theories, to see whether his audience is open enough for them.Plotwise, “Sole Survivor” always reminds me of “The Eyes of Darkness”, while the ending comes closer to “Dark Rivers of the Heart”.
The first 20% of the book is the main character going on and on and on about he's suffering, miserable, angry, unable to ever move on, yadda yadda yadda.
The main character is in a bad place.
Unfortunately, the annoying main character isn't the only problem.
I'm not sure if Koontz was trying to stretch his literary wings, but Sole Survivor is filled with over the top prose and endless descriptions that seemed to have been written to establish Koontz's literary cred.
If I want boring literary descriptions, I'll check out the Booker Prize nominees.
We meet Joe Carpenter who has basically given up on life after the death of his family in a plane crash a year ago.
Then he meets a strange woman at the graveside of his wife and daughters taking photos of the gravestones.
Is Rose really a survivor of the plane crash?
Is there more to the plane crash than what he has learned so far?
Joe begins his own investigation, running from the same forces that are after Rose.
Is it possible that his daughter, Nina, is alive?
Koontz once again leads us on a fascinating journey through Joe's search for the truth.
Definitely on the short list of Koontz's best work, SOLE SURVIVOR is a wildly entertaining thriller with surprisingly ambitious emotional and spiritual underpinnings.
Not only does it contain one of the most powerful hooks I've ever come across, but, in between scenes of grisly murders and exciting chases, Koontz aims to teach readers a little something about life.
Koontz tries to imbibe SOLE SURVIVOR with the trappings of "serious literature" but doesn't pull it off 100% effectively.
As a result, Koontz's too-frequent use of complicated metaphors eventually becomes distracting, though he certainly does an amazing job at being descriptive.
I was really enjoying this book. Koontz as usual can develop wonderful characters that you really care about. It moved at a break neck speed for much of the book but I thought it petered out and was somewhat anti climactic in like the last 20 pages.
Upon finishing the book it was like reading Stephen King crossed with Harlen Coben, with a sprinkle of Michael Chrichton added for good measure.
I was less than eighty pages (approximately) to the end and wondering if I'd actually be told what was the cause of everything.
I can't go into details because I don't want to include spoilers but why something that had happened only a few pages previously couldn't be repeated with ease made no sense.
Having just read a book that did little more than preach I'm happy for this type of narrative to be left out of fictional writing
So...yeah about that.Um, well...I'm not going to lie, this was a bit over my head.
I mean, I think I get it but it was a tad out there and I might be a bit confused on a few things though I really liked the message in the end...at least I think I do.
It seemed like the beginning of a series but I don't see any other books linked to this one so I'm hoping someone out there can help me figure this out or at least help me clear up the ending.
He finds a purpose for living once he realizes he may be the only person left alive to expose the truth.Dean Koontz usually writes so much more than an eerie, suspense filled page-turner and SOLE SURVIVOR is no exception.
He's outdone himself with the character of Joe. Poor, tortured Joe. His grief is expressed so vividly I felt his sorrow and my heart broke about a million times as he's reminded of his wife and girls in nearly every thing he does.Any book that can keep me on edge like this one did and make me care so much about a character gets my recommendation.
My daughter tells me I actually tried to read it once before and laid it aside.I can sort of see why.For a long, long (long,long,long,long) time this book does try the patience.
And he tells us about it...he loses control, he creeps out strangers by stopping them when he thinks they are his lost wife and daughter...and he goes on and on (and on, and on, and on, and on,) about it all.I really had to hold on tight to stay with the book.There's another thing...the idea here, Koontz has done it elsewhere, and better.
This book started well enough as a mystery novel. The main character was reasonably developed as a grieving father who was trying to uncover a conspiracy. The story moved effectively into a science fiction style, with the cloning of children who had special powers. Unfortunately, these two themes were abandoned near the end, and the book concluded with magic and existential concepts. None of the initial issues (the mystery and the children with special powers) were completed. It was a disappointing book overall
Well my second Dean Koontz was not as good as my first experience.I was disappointed with this story. I felt for the main character, however, I was just bored with the entire story. The ending was not what I was hoping it would be. Not only that but they didn't tie up any loose ends, it just ended. He takes the time to explain things that do not matter that much in great detail, but then doesn't wrap up the story. Blah.
I loved this book from the start. I remembered there had been a movie years ago on this book starting Billy Zane, but luckily my memory of it was vague so the book wasn't spoiled. There were certain parts that tested my patience. The end was a bit anti-climatic, it could've ended better. Hence the four stars. Otherwise, I totally recommend it!
Fantastic book! Loved it!
Sole Survivor unfolds at a heart-stopping pace, as a desperate chase and a shattering emotional odyssey lead Joe to a truth that will force him to reassess everything he thought he knew about life and death--a truth that, given the chance, will rock the world and redefine the destiny of humanity.My ReviewThe one year anniversary since his wife and children's plane crashed and Joe is no closer to getting over his grief.
The first is all about Joe, grief, the relatives of those on board the aircraft and of course the mysterious Rose.
I go back and forth with Koontz, because his story ideas are always out there and strange (which is a good thing), but his prose is a bit self aggrandizing.
It isn't as fast paced as I thought it would be, but it was beautifully twisty and had a truly intriguing plot.
The end of the story just unravels, as though he didn't actually know how to finish it, or the publisher was pushing for publication and he hadn't finished it.
Koontz goes for the thoughtful provocateur ending, but it isn't effective.
I haven't read anything by Koontz for some time, so was once again struck by the poetry of his writing.
For example, "In a clock tick, the future was no longer a kingdom of possibility and wonder, but a yoke of obligation - and only the unattainable past offered a hospitable place to live." He must have amazed is English teachers back in the day.Plot wise, Sole Survivor was intriguing, and I highly recommend it to those who enjoy a descriptively beautiful and thought provoking book.
A nail biter that might just keep you awake past bedtime.
I'd say it's his best book along with Watchers. That said, even Koontz's best books leave a lot to be desired. Good for an entertaining fast read on an overnight flight (and then leave it behind on the plane).
It was very exciting and scary... until it introduced God and the Hereafter. I lost interest but I did finish it.
This one could have been shorter. It's a great story with fabulous characters, but for me it dragged a bit.
The sea was a perpetually laboring machine with no purpose but the continuation of its own existence, romanticized and cherished by countless poets but incapable of knowing human passion, pain and promise."I know not why I get interested in this narration; maybe because I am a parallel line sharing this pessimistic, atheistic world view.....But I am mistaken, because the novel, predictably ends with "hope".
Here, at the end of the novel, the hero and the child escape from the boy's power...
If no, at least will they not use the boy's power for some other evil purposes.
How the hero and the child save the world?
write when you read it sounds like shit...
but reading somebody else stuff is another story."February 15, 2017 –  90.0% "Memories we go back again and again and again...
dead..."February 15, 2017 –  20.0% "This time I wasn't dissapointed I was impressed, a lot of the movies which are based on this novels are more likely the same style but still there some into them......Probably before to make something he makes sure to make as much research as possible."
