https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958211.One_Fine_Day
I enjoyed this book (written and published in 1971)but can see why, having read other reviews , in 2018 the Fox getting his tail cut off for stealing an old woman's milk would be difficult to accept in a children's book.I still think that the story teaches a good lesson and much can be taken from the positive ending.
I still do not all that much like the fact that the peasant woman cut off the fox's tail, but the illustration of the woman holding the detached tail really does bother me on a personal and emotional level so much more than the textual description of the same ever could (because it really does look and appear as though the peasant woman is holding the poor fox's tale aloft as some kind of acquired hunting trophy).
I'm not sure what I was expecting for a Caldecott winner, but I think it was more than this.
The art was bright and lovely and I appreciate it, yet the story seemed rather simple.A fox losses his tail and must negotiate with many people to get what he wants.
It all works out.It feels like there isn't much to this.
I might need to lower my expectations for these books from the past.
This is a good book, I feel it is like many other good books out there.
I read this for my goal of reading the Caldecott stories for 2018.
Caldecotte Medal 1972This is a cumulative tale about a thirsty fox who lapped up an old woman's pail of milk while she wasn't looking.
She told the fox she would sew it back on if he gives her the milk back.
The story thus begins its chain of repetition of all the things the fox needs to do to complete the request of the old woman.
I feel like the story needed a smoother, less random flow to the cumulative requests of all the people and things the fox spoke to.
One Fine Day (Hogrogian, 1971) is a story about a thirsty fox that drank a woman’s milk and ended up getting his tail sliced off in return.
He must adventure out to ask animals to help him get, so that he can gather more milk for the lady to get his tail back.
The students could be given a pattern worksheet before they read the story, which could contain the beginning of a shapes pattern.
For every repeated sequence that the fox does, such as every time the fox is asking each animal for assistance, the students could add on the next shape in a pattern.
The book jacket promises a “story of a greedy fox’s adventure as catchy as a nursery rhyme.” I can’t improve on that synopsis of this Caldecott-winning picture book. The illustrations are beautifully rendered and serve the simple tale very well.
A nice but familiar story of a fox who has lost his tail and must negotiate with a number of differ t parties, organizing trades to get it out back on.
Summary and Critique:The beautiful illustrations in the book redeem the minimal story line and underdeveloped characters.
Although this book seems under advanced and minimally interesting, it uses the principle of high frequency, low variation, meaning that beginning readers would be better able to understand and recognize these words.
Classroom use:In a classroom setting, I would use this book more for children to read on their own as opposed to with the class as a whole because the illustrations allow children to understand the story even if the word meaning is somewhat unclear.
This book is about a fox who gets its tail cut off by a women because he drank her milk.
The woman would sew back on the fox's tail if the fox brought her some milk.
The cow would give the fox milk if brought grass.
What would the fox need to get the egg from the hen or so on so you can check for understanding and whether or not the kids were paying attention.
Whole class use: Understand that what the old lady did was wrong.
One Fine Day by Nonny Hogrogian was her first book in which she both wrote and illustrated.
Hogrogian's illustrations were a great success.
Hogrogian's story tells of a fox who was very thirsty and therefore drank milk from an old woman's pail.
The old woman became upset and cut off the fox's tail.
The fox naturally became upset, and then goes on an adventure to get his tail back, working with many different animals and people alike.
I would recommend using this book in the classroom to show different techniques for illustrating, sequencing/retelling, and to accompany a unit on friendship.
Lovely illustrations (earning a Caldecott Medal, in fact) are the star of this story of a sly fox who steals milk from an old woman.
She chops off his tail in punishment and says she will sew it back on only if he gives her more milk.
This sets the fox off on a journey to find all the things others demand of him before he can finally get that milk.
I'm afraid the violence kind of kept me from enjoying what might otherwise be a fun little story, but it is based on an Armenian folktale and I know violence is no stranger to traditional folktales.
I like foxes, which is why this book jumped out from the shelf. But, I don't like the message it sends. The old woman reacts violently to the fox helping himself to her milk. It's too Old Testament for my taste, not to mention I really don't enjoy reading kids' books where you end up repeating yourself a million times a-la The Green Grass Grew All Around.
This book was a Caldecott Medal Winner several years ago. It's a bit strange, the sort of books some kids will find disquieting. My daughter did not really like it as the fox's tail gets cut off in the beginning and then he spends the rest of the book trading for favors and items trying to get his tail sewn back on. Obviously, nicely illustrated and a cool tale in the style of the older fairy tales and fables.
The book is well-written, but once I started reading it I remembered detesting it as a child, and that didn't help me like it any more now. I hope the old woman doesn't have any pets.
But to me, this wasn't the message that stood out...the fox didn't set off to get milk for the old woman because he felt bad for his actions...he set off on his journey so that he could get his tail back so his friends wouldn't laugh at him.
Now, I doubt most kids will read this story the same way I did...but I don't love that the message that stands out to me is that he had to go to person(animal/object) after person to be able to get milk for the old woman in order to protect his reputation and to not be embarrassed in front of his "FRIENDS".
One fine day by Hogrogian Noony Genre: picture book, fiction Reading level: K-3 grade Format: good Reading the book One Fine Day by Nonny Hogrogian was really enjoyable in the fact that the book has a pattern and a rhythm. I liked how the picture illustrations in the book showed everything the text said for example when the fox was drinking the old ladies milk. The pictures show the worrying face of the fox when he is asking the cow, field, steam, sweet maiden, peddler, hen, and miller for help
I liked how the picture illustrations in the book showed everything the text said for example when the fox was drinking the old ladies milk.
The pictures show the worrying face of the fox when he is asking the cow, field, steam, sweet maiden, peddler, hen, and miller for help so he can get his tail sowed back because the old lady chopped it off since he finished all her milk.
And finally the old lady got her milk and sowed the fox’s tail and the fox happily went with his friends.
I remember reading this picture book when I was young and feeling sorry for the fox who becomes increasingly frustrated in his attempts to get his tail sewn back.
Still, after she promises to help him out if he replaces the milk, he goes from one animal or human to the next in search of what he needs.
For instance, the cow agrees to provide milk if the fox brings some grass.
The field agrees to provide grass but only if the fox brings some water.
That act of kindness allows the tail to be sewn to his backside once more and the fox to avoid any teasing from his friends.
The very thirsty fox who wanders through the woods, comes upon a jug containing milk.
After he consumes what is not his, the woman owning the jug chops off his tail.
Her request sends the fox on a journey wherein each one he requests, asks for another thing in return.
Instead of asking for something in return, he gives more than is requested.
This is a lovely book which enables the reader to remember the sequence of all the fox must accomplish before his wish is granted.
The story and lovely illustrations, pull the reader into the pages.
Unlike other reviewers, I didn't see the chopping off of the fox's tail as violent: there was no blood, and the fox did not complain of being in pain.
During the entire cumulative story, he was more worried about being laughed at for being tailless than anything else.
And I don't think the author/illustrator intended for the tail chopping to be viewed as a violent action, but as a tit for tat action.
I thought the colorful, folksy paintings fit the story well, although they are not my favorite style of picture book art.
This book is very similar to The Greedy Sparrow and other tales of its kind where an animal character must make continuous trades in order to repay a debt or gain something desired.
In this version, the character is a fox, and the story is very straightforward.
I love the long nose of Hogrogian’s fox, and the way the position of his nose clues the reader into his mood and demeanor depending on what is happening in a given illustration.
I’m not sure the story really has a message, but the illustrations keep it interesting enough that it doesn’t much matter.
This is a classic tale, a format that is fairly common, with one action building upon and dependent upon another until you get to the end. It is entertaining and has the familiar and comforting repetition that so many children like. Nice, colorful illustrations, too.This book was selected as one of the books for the July 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
1972 Caldecott Medal Winner. Favorite Illustration: When the fox finally gets his tail back, the look on his face is so hilarious - he's so relieved to finally have his tail returned!This is a funny little quid pro quo tale following a fox on his journey to get his tail back. I loved the fox's facial expressions - they were so perfect. At times he was frustrated, scared, timid, relieved, or hopeful and they all were shown so beautifully on his face! The bright illustrations lent a cheery tone to the story, and it was just fun overall to read.
The sunny pictures are the most fun part of this book about a fox who has to pay back a woman for his misdeeds. He drank her milk, so she cut off his tail. To get it sewn back, he has to replace the milk which requires coordinating the requests of many others. A good example of a story using repetition for effect.
That poor fox! I'm glad the old man finally had compassion and pity that he gave the fox something instead of requiring something from him. Poor little guy. He'd just been thirsty. Should have asked first, but still. This is a build-on story, and honestly as I read I kept hearing "Into the Woods."Could work in storytime. Would be good in a lap-read as well.
An old woman cuts off a fox's tail. He pleads with her to sew it back on but he must get back the milk he stole from her. So he goes to the cow for milk, and he must get grass in exchange for the milk. And so on and so on and so on.
A fox's tail is cut off when he drinks an old woman's milk. She'll only give him his tail back if he gives the milk back. The cow will only give him milk if he brings grass. The field will only bring grass if he brings water . . . and so on.
Fine illustrations and important moral - another picture book for kids. This one is above average.
A cumulative folktale telling the story of a fox trying to get his tail back. A few morals can be taught with this story. Bright illustrations compliment this tale.
Caldecott Medal - 1971 She cut off his tail!!! Something about that bothered me when I read it. Everything about the story fit but oh the tail...maybe just my mood today.
I liked this story. One thing leads to the next thing and end the end all was well with the fox.
