https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73968.Love_Story
"Love means never having to say you're sorry"   is probably among some of the most ridiculous statements ever. ....... Luckily it's a rare blemish on a simple but beautiful story. Plus it's cheesy, corny, and insanely quotable, so I'll have to give it a pass on that.A girl and a boy meet and fall in love. Jenny is a poor artistic sorta-Catholic Radcliffe-educated Italian-American brainiac with a razor-sharp tongue. Oliver is a rich WASPy Harvard "Preppy" jock with a slew of Daddy issues and a R
Luckily it's a rare blemish on a simple but beautiful story.
Plus it's cheesy, corny, and insanely quotable, so I'll have to give it a pass on that.A girl and a boy meet and fall in love.
They fall in love despite the huge social gap between them.
Few more Daddy issues ensue, a fight or two happens, the cheesy phrase (see above) is uttered to my sheer mortification.
Jenny dies
That she was beautiful and brilliant.
That she loved Mozart and Bach.
It is beautiful, simple, short and funny.
It is a quintessential love story and is fully worth the few well-spent reading hours.
I read Love Story because I didn't want to see the movie, but I wanted to know what everyone was talking about.
While it was an affecting and sentimental little story, even at that young age I felt that it was trying too hard to tug on my heartstrings.
In later years, I came to realize that the movie's oft quoted line, "Love means never having to say you're sorry" is a complete falsehood.
In fact, love means always being willing to say your sorry, and to mean it.
Love grows stronger with humility, and the height of pride is the belief that a union can survive an unrepentant attitude.
Se si aggiunge poi il fatto che dopo aver letto il libro non ho mai avuto voglia di vedere il film, la singola stella è più che mai giustificata.2018, 26 marzoE quindi anche per Love Story ci sono anniversari, commemorazioni et similia.Sono passati cinquant’anni da quando l’esimio professor Segal (laureato a Harvard e insegnante a Yale, e alla stessa Harvard, a Princeton, al Wolfson College di Oxford!!!), che aveva già alle spalle la partecipazione, in ricca compagnia, alla sceneggiatura del film Yellow Submarine (quello di animazione su musica dei Beatles), dedicò le vacanze di natale di quell’anno, 1968, a scrivere il suo romanzo, del quale aveva prevenduto i diritti cinematografici (il romanzo uscì il 14 febbraio del 1970, e il film il 16 dicembre dello stesso anno).Irene Bignardi, con la quale condivido grande amore per la settima arte, pur se con tonalità diverse, spende parole preziose in difesa del libro:Il libro è meglio della sua fama.
Segal created wonderful characters in Jenny and Oliver.
Sure, they were from Harvard and Radcliffe; they have the all-too-common poor girl and rich boy histories; but, Segal was wise with his characters.
(It was eventually made into a movie with Segal writing the script…oh, did I mention it was nominated for seven Oscars?) So the story is simple: Rich boy falls in love with poor girl.
Poor girl opens the eyes of rich boy to the nuances and beauty of life.
This is all told in the opening of the book, so I’m not spoiling anything.
I laughed. I cried (and believe me. i cried a lot!). I fell in love. I learned. I simply love the book. It was indeed beautifully written and it reached out into the depths of my soul. My heart just poured out as I read the last few pages of the book. Such a tiny book to stir such great emotions in me. beautiful.
Shallow, contrived pseudo-tearjerker. I read this many years ago when it came out, and even though I was much younger and not as wise and mature as I am now, I realized how meaningless was the by-word of the book, "Love means not having to say you're sorry." Love actually means being constantly ready to ask for, give, and receive forgiveness.
Sad But beautiful!
It's a very simple story.A boy meets a girl,they fall in love,but instead of happily ever after, there's a sad ending. But it was the emotions in the book which made it worth reading. The story is beautiful, funny,emotional,and a bit sad. As much as I loved the story,it was very simple,and I am giving it 4 stars only because it was very touching,and also because this book was capable of making me read it when it has already told the ending on the very first page. It was a great short read!
But...There was no chemistry at all between Oliver and Jenny--The Couple.
All we know is that Oliver is a rich kid who loves Jenny more than money or his own father.
And Jenny is this poor, smart musician who became a teacher and calls her dad by his first name.The only actual loving relationship I cared about was not the one between the couple but between the dad and son--and that was the relationship that wasn't explored at all except for when Segal sneaks in a lame attempt at reconciliation on the last page.If love means not ever having to say you're sorry, then it's good that I don't love this book because I am sorry for having read it.
It may be that you need a "Super Sad True" in the title, for this is the only way the tale could be made relevant and contemporary in the year 2017. The jock-&-Italian-girl thing may of once been deemed, you know, sultry. As exotic for this WASPy crowd as anything else. (Right now, 20-yr olds getting married seems a bigger, more exotic, waaaay rarer occurrence.)Snarky and sexy teens? ALWAYS in vogue. & tales of new-but-doomed love? Hella DITTO.
Jednostavnim stilom i kratkom pricom ispricanom iz njegove perspektive, uspjesno docarati ljubavnu pricu... Rekla bih, jako zahtjevno. Svaka cast na uspjehu!
Read this in high school and even though love reading/loved reading stories about dying young, really didn't think much of this.
Yes, I admit I was interested in Jenny & Oliver and their love story.
But: when people have leukemia or whatever it was she was supposed to have had, they physically suffer a lot more.
Thought the way her illness was described was so unrealistic and dishonest.
And love does not mean never having to say you’re sorry; I always thought that iconic saying from the book was ridiculous.
Torn about this one.
The kind of book I’d normally love.
it's an emotional roller-coaster.Wasn't much into it actually. Even the movie, it wasn't a favorite of mine. But the book was a gift from one of my friends and I thought I should give it a try. One of my main reasons of reading this book is my previous reads of other novels that were made into movies. Although those movies weren't that good, the books were absolutely amazing.As for this case, the movie and the book hold 2 stars in my humble opinion.
I read it for happiness, inspiration and love.Since the time I first read Eric Segal, I have been a great admirer of his writing (try his other book Oliver’s Story).
the main characters who are from different socio-economic backgrounds; the heart and soul of the book.Love Story is a phenomenal experience.
It makes us cherish our relationship with the loved ones, and at the same time brings forth the inevitable...
Reading it makes you feel that there is so less time to love.
Oliver Barrett is the scion of the Barrett family and Jennifer a 'social zero'.
Theirs is not an ordinary love story.
This romance keeps the reader glued till the end, or rather an unpleasant end.
The narrative is strong, effortless and edgy.
No wonder it became a bestseller of its time and continues to spawn movie and TV adaptations.
I can remember so many movies that have the same plot and yet, none has come close to evoking those same feelings as the book.
All in all, it was a lovely read and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
This was a fun, refreshingly charming, quick read. That is, until it reached in, ripped my heart out and crushed it into smush. I adored the book, I adored the characters and their flaws, I adored the relationship between Oliver and Jenny.Highly recommended, please go read it if you haven't already. Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to go cry into a pillow.
I found this book in our cabin up on Monhegan Island in Maine.
I'm the biggest baby when it comes to romance.
I was already almost finished with this book, so I read it between my turns.
I just started flat out bawling at the table in front of everyone as I finished.
It's such a quick read, but man does this book pack an emotional punch.
The characters really come to life.
I did read the sequel to this book, but I like to just pretend it was based on totally different characters.
The emotional dynamics of the second just can't compare.
Love means you never have to say sorry. That line makes famous from this book. I am quite surprise how short is this book. Even it is short, it is a very beautiful love story. I can see Nicholas Spark takes some leaf from this book. Beautiful honest and not so dramatic. Love it. I wish I can see the movie now.
I admit I cried at the end.And I'm sorry but love DOES mean having to say you're sorry.
To me, it wasn’t a proposal that was emotionally charged but rather a petty attempt to do the opposite of what daddy tells him just because he can.“Love means never having to say you're sorry.”Of course I had to include/discuss the most famous line of the book since I don’t quite agree with it.
I think love means you’re more likely to be forgiven but I don’t think that should excuse you completely from an apology.
Love means never having to say you’re sorry?
Writing a short novel is fine but why do i feel like I missed the part where I was supposed to feel the love seeping through the pages (?) There's no chemistry between the couple at all.The characters are not really likeable.
Oliver claims to love Jennifer and he makes her give up on her dream to go to Paris and study Music so that they could get married (not to mention at a very early age).
You call that 'love', eh?
There are actually so many things I fail to understand about this book.The writing is simple,the attempts of humour are not completely in vain.
Apparecchio per la glicemia Amore significa non dover dire mai "mi dispiace".Ma nessuno ha mai riflettuto sul messaggio distorto che veicola la frase cult di questa indimenticabile opera?Comunque trattasi del classico libro capace di far leva sul senso di empatia generazionale grazie ai soliti, triti e ritriti, luoghi comuni ereditati dalla celeberrima opera di Shakespeare.Intrattenimento fine a se stesso e dalla scarsa profondità, ma sono comprensibili le lacrime a fiumi versate negli anni '70.
Koliko god puta pročitala ovu knjigu, doživljaj je uvijek isti. Toplina i ljubav, prožeti sjetom, uz najljepši citat: "Voljeti ne znači vječito ponavljati da ti je žao."
Berbeda dengan biasanya, kali ini saya tak membawa satu potong bagasi pun.Tapi kedatangan kali ini juga berbeda dengan biasanya kok.Biasanya saya ke sini untuk tinggal dalam jangka waktu lama, namun kali ini hanya 3 hari.Biasanya saya ke sini dengan perasaan gembira, namun kali ini dengan rasa pedih.Biasanya saya ke sini untuk mengunjungi Rizal dan membuat memori baru namun kali ini untuk menutup kisah dan menghapus jejak kenangan.Dan yang paling terasa : biasanya Rizal yang menjemput saya di bandara, namun kali ini saya dijemput Rifqi.Setelah berbagi pelukan singkat dengan Ifqi, kami langsung menuju ke mobilnya.
aún así y porque, que lo sepan; una Yess malvada habita dentro de mí, esta so bruja me decía: jooo que es que no pudieron comprarte un libro con un tiutlo menos rosa?
Tanto así que la Yess buena se ha revelao y le ha soltado tres sopapos para que se lo piense a la otra.Love story, es de lejos una novela rosa...
hay una frase del libro, que me ha encantado, y que a las primeras de cambio lo interpreté mal, pero que luego entendi, es:"Amar significa nunca tener que decir que lo sientes".Hasta la proxima reseña ;)Yess
It just gives me creeps & I feel that all this is so weird only meant for the teenagers who have just gained puberty and belive romanc eis what happens in Yash Chopra or Karan Johar movies.So when one of my very good friends asked me to read this book, I was so skeptical of wasting my time.
But it left a nice feeling of reading a book that shows love so fresh like a morning dew.
It felt like a love story of us, the way it happens and the way we understand it and feel it.So all those romantics in heart you cant miss this.
I wasn't around during the 60's (the time period in which this novel was set), but surely there had to have been some "code of medical ethics." (view spoiler)[Was it even legal for a doctor to inform the husband of his ADULT wife's terminal illness, while withholding that information from the wife herself?!?
It wasn't Oliver's job to inform Jenny that she's dying; it was the DOCTOR'S job.
And of course, the love story between Oliver & Jenny is timeless.I've had the following quote from this novel memorized since I was 10 years old:

If 70's writers were teen celebrities, Erich Segal would have been Bobby Sherman or, to use a more contemporary analogy, Justin Beiber.
But there is no analogy or scale on earth that would describe how bad this novel is.
After reading Love Story in the 70s, I had to go to the bathroom to purge myself.
A regular diet of this crap would cause literary bulimia.
The movie didn't fare any better having caused me to endure a lifetime hatred of both Ali McGraw and Ryan O'Neal.
Or if you see the movie, a Nora Ephron film marathon should work.
3.5 Harvard and Radcliffe stars!Meet Oliver Barett IV, Harvard undergraduate and an aspirant in law studies. Rich as gold, total hockey jock.Enter Jenny Cavilleri, studying music at Radcliffe. Sassy and exceedingly witty. And here’s how it all started: “What the hell makes you so smart?” I asked. “I wouldn’t go for coffee with you,” she answered.“Listen- I wouldn’t ask you.”“That,” she replied, “is what makes you stupid.”  The book exploits films and tiers of cheese and corn, and is in every bi
3.5 Harvard and Radcliffe stars!Meet Oliver Barett IV, Harvard undergraduate and an aspirant in law studies.
“What the hell makes you so smart?” I asked.
And “Love means never to say you’re sorry..” ????
You hurt me, you say sorry.
And what was the reason Oliver Barett III was rewarded with such outright disgust from his son?
The reasons why I liked this book :a.
b. How can something like this Classic Romance ever be in my hate books?
Its beautiful, in its own way.c. I loved the banter between Oliver and Jenny, which were, though numbered, fun and clever.
