https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134776.Competitive_Advantage
If they were ever relevant, this book's theories are almost completely outdated and misleading now.Still the core concepts are useful to understand, because they've been drilled into the heads of most MBA's – and many haven't learned to question Porter's dangerously misleading precepts.
Learning them will reveal a set of blind spots that afflict many of your partners, clients and competitors.
Don't take it at face value or drink the counterproductive Kool Aid.Also, a lot of the language and buzzwords here influenced 1980s and 1990s American business-speak, and that can help in communicating and working with old school businessfolk.
They play an important role and it helps to speak their language.
The two basic types of competitive advantage combined with the scope of activities for which a firm seeks to achieve them lead to three generic strategies for achieving above-average performance in an industry: cost leadership, diff'erentiation, and focus.
Assess the existing and potential sources of uniqueness in a firm's value chain...5.Identify the cost of existing and potential sources of differentiation...6.Choose the configuration of value activities that creates the most valuable differentiation for the buyer relative to cost of differentiating...7.Test the chosen differentiation strategy for sustainability...8.Reduce cost in activities that do not affect the chosen forms of differentiation."10- "Technological change is not important for its own sake, but is important if it affects competitive advantage and industry structure.
Dry and dated..... Reads like an old textbook. Some useful concepts illustrated with examples from companies that are no longer part of today's world.....making its content harder to apply.
Michael Porter has unquestionably been to corporate strategy what Mendelejev was to chemistry with the periodic table or von Linné to botany with the taxonomy system. But perhaps different from these two, for our purposes here it is a tricky task indeed to separate one piece of Porter s work to review. The sum of value of Competitive Strategy, Competitive Advantage, The Competitive Advantage of Nations, On Competition and numerous groundbreaking papers, is simply greater than the individual part
In that way, Porter in 1985 saw Competitive Advantage as a major leap forward and that would stand the test of time.
And he still does: “The ideas in Competitive Advantage are still percolating”.In the book Porter put forward two difference makers in a firm ́s quest towards finding and sustaining an edge vs.
Part IV of the book, where he deals with product differentiation as a concept, is arguably where Competitive Advantage comes to its fore.
A great culture is nothing but a carefully crafted set of activities, developed over time within a firm.
I'd be loathe to recommend this book to anyone outside of a business degree or the financial industry.
It certainly reads like a theory dug up from the schools of higher education.
Of course, we can't forget how some of the best stories and legends deal with competition and leaders.Why would people be a competitive advantage?It would likely feed into the notion that everyone is a risk manager and called to be leaders.
Sometimes it appears like the leadership eats its own, we would force retirement if situations weren't addressed in a sufficient manner.
Timeless advice
Good rigorous overview of how to go about appraising a market and in particular the competition that will be faced and the considerations that need to be made in face of the identified and also less obvious competition (e.g. from adjacent markets/technologies).
The process is sound although where the book is of course now struggling is in it's age; it was written and published in the mid '70's and of course much has chnaged since then in how fast a market moves and in the tools available to make a market assessment.
Great base material ripe for being refreshed to encompass the internet age.
A quite detailed exploration on competition, and stuffs behind it, either in conceptual or practical way. It also offers a very helpful model to understand how those stuffs work in forming something called: competition, and of course how to win it using the title of this book: competitive advantage.
A very comprehensive discussion on strategy development. The core concepts for building competitive advantage are still relevant even though the book was published back in 1985. It serves as a great reference for anyone who is involved in strategy work.
GOOG
Classic book for business professionals. Got to be into business to follow the text adequately.
The classic foundation of business theory, impervious to trends and fads in business theory.
Michael Porter is a genius!! Baru kali ini gw ngerti keterkaitan antara konsep persaingan, produktivitas, inovasi dan keunggulan daya saing.
"A very good and will structured strategy book, I'd give it 5 stars except for the too much details it includes that turns it to be more of an academic reference than a practical book"
Top 5 Business
this is a GREAT book.
Long read but worth it.
good book for business
Is A MUST
A classic
Very technical but truly the go-to book if you're an executive looking to improve your firm.
One of those must-reads. You have to know the forces. But not, unlike Drucker, something I looked back to.
The Bible on strategy
It's a great book
So long ago I hardly remember
