https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22514739-the-other-gods
Although one of the most characteristic and suggestive of all the early Lovecraft tales, “The Other Gods” was also a story for which H.P. found it difficult to find a publisher : written in 1921, it achieved its first publication eleven years later, and then only in an amateur journal (The Fantasy Fan, 1933).
Although they see the earth gods up close and exult pridefully in their achievement, they soon discover that “other gods” are there also.
And these gods are much more powerful than the earth gods, and not so easily pleased.These “other gods” are not yet the Chthulu-connected entities Lovecraft would soon imagine.
An old man and his frightened sidekick scale a mountain to see the faces of the gods, and no person has seen them and lived. A short, ten minute read. I continue to feel drawn to Lovecraft. I believe he writes well. He makes strong use of the active voice and paints wonderful pictures in my mind. In this I saw gods dancing in the clouds. Beautiful, and Terrible.
Barzai the Wise decides to go to the highest peaks of the mountain of Hatheg-Kla to find the earth gods.
'He believed that his great secret knowledge of gods could shield him from their wrath, so resolved to go up to the summit of high and rocky Hatheg-Kla on a night when he knew the gods would be there.'With his disciple Atal, who was just a boy in The Cats of Ulthar and a 300-year-old priest of the Elder Gods in The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath when Randal Carter tried to find the hidden place where gods live, Barzai finally reaches the place he can hear and see the earth gods.
What Barzai doesn't expect is that the earth gods are not alone.
It's a very short story about cosmic horror, very likely inspired by the dreams Lovecraft had had. It reads like a dark fairy tale, the plot is simple, not outstanding but it is still very effective.
This piece of work is much more like a cautionary tale, or a myth, within the mythos of Cthulhu.
Still, when it is grounded with the rest of the "timeline" the story adds elements to the relationship between the Star Gods, and the Gods of the World.This connection becomes quite important to understand elements of how the Star Gods are related to other gods in the pantheon that H.P. Lovecraft put together throughout the books.
Still, with that in mind, the relationship to the rest of storyline is an important one and it does add elements to the overall mythos.
I recieved this book on Christmas Eve, and I enthusiastically started reading this book of evil on the supposed night of Christ's birth.
Some of these stories, such as 'What the Moon Brings' and 'The Evil Clergyman' are different from much of what he wrote, and certiain ones, such as,'Beyond the Wall of Sleep' and 'Under the Pyramida' are a staple for fans of him.
All of this makes The Other Gods a fairly fascinating read, of course;nonetheless, there were a good amount that lackluster.
However, this is still worth reading for any with a fascination with Lovecraft.
This feels like a foreshadowing of what would later come to be known as the elder gods.
A man scales a mountain in which he would be able to see the gods of Earth from our own familiar religions and folklore.
He sees them dancing in the moonlight on the peak of the mountain, but he also finds them dancing with something else.
Something cosmic, alien and terrifying to behold.
Here they are referred to as the other gods, which we can assume is a hint for the future concept of elder gods that lurk in the distant black sea of the cosmos.
В давні часи земні боги жили на вершинах гір. З часом смертні люди почали освоювати землі вище і вище, допоки у богів не залишилося єдиної домівки - незвіданого Кадата, куди людям підійматися заборонено. Проте боги іноді відвідували свої старі домівки, сумуючи за минулим. Барзаї Мудрий дуже добре знався на звичках земних богів, він навіть вважав себе розумнішим за них. І він бажав побачити їх на власні очі. Взявши супутником молодого жерця Атала, він попрямував до гори Гатеґ-Кла, і, коли він упевнився, що боги навідалися на її вершину, він поліз до них. Однак зустрів він там зовсім не тих, кого очікував.
Was a little creepy but I couldn't really get into this one... I kept thinking that Barzai the Wise was probably just nuts and they'd all finally get to the top and see him jumping around yelling about gods on his own. How convenient when Atal was nearly at the top Barzai starts yelling that he's seen the Gods but Atal shouldn't look cause now other gods have turned up and they're evil. Sure Barzai, sure.But in seriousness, it was an okay story, typical Lovecraft themes and tropes, just not standout to me.
Reading Lovecraft is like driving on a dirt road.
His prose is somewhat archaic with a lot of wired names.
I can't read his writings as fast and fluid as I want.The short story is about a hybrid god-human who decides to climb the mountain of gods to see the gods of Earth....but what he sees made him to regret his decision.Spoiler:The story tells us about the hierarchy of the cosmos.
There is Always an upper hand.The Gods of Earth are afraid of the Other Gods of Hell.Some analogies I liked in the book:Mists are the memories of GodsWind is the sigh of Gods
A wise prophet and his young disciple climb a tall mountain to witness the gods of the earth. There, they encounter not only their own gods, but the other gods as well, deadly and alien and cosmic and not at all pleased with the human interlopers. A quick read, but one I had a difficult time jelling with. Perhaps a re-read when I'm not interrupted would do me well.
Do not mess with the Gods.I felt it was a little creepy. Lovecraft really had a wild imagination to write up such stories.
The Gods of earth seek refuge atop the tallest mountains. Men who seek them must scale the peaks. Fun reading for anyone who enjoys climbing mountains.
Amazing poetry without rhymes, such a rhythm. Artistic genius.
more like 3.5. a mixed bag, as always, but without any of the real standouts that the other two anthologies had.
7/10
4. 5 stars!!!Am I the only one who thinks this book is kind of scary?? Bcs IT IS!When I was reading it I was listening to the audiobook too AND I HAVE TO SAY THAT IT WAS AWESOME Gods...
Hubris: always a bad idea.(Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
A nicely-written tale about a power-hungry prophet getting his comeuppance.
H.P. Lovecraft - Los otros dioses (1933)
Lovecraft links back to earier stories, featuring a protagonist who has seemingly elevated himself to the status of a God. Believing himself worthy of consorting with them he defies widely held fears and sets off on an odyssey.However, his learning may be great, but it does not help him contend with the realities of the Gods and there are consequences to his actions....
I can't wait to read more H.P. Lovecraft :) this took me a while and did not read every single page as some parts were significantly more engaging than others, but what I did read grabbed me and the prose is SO beautiful! He certainly has a way with words...however now I will be pouring over Philosophy books until the end of semester.
A high priest and prophet greatly learned in the lore of the gods of earth attempts to scale the mountain of Hatheg-Kla in order to look upon their faces, accompanied by his young disciple. But the gods of the earth are not there alone.
This works for me on every re-reading.
Se nombran lugares tan mágicos como Ulthar, Kadath, Nig, etc. Y el suspense aterrador que se respira... <3
Meh
A great story with an admirable moral—of course, the fallible pursuit of ultimate knowledge been done to death now, but this an admirable, early attempt. Check it out!
Sort of a follow-up to "The Cats of Ulthar".
Fairly typical Lovecraft story of a professor wanting to confront the gods directly and not getting what he expected.
Maybe it's the reader of the audio I listed two but this book almost has a poetic quality to it.
