https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169949.Education_for_Critical_Consciousness
This book helps layout the approach for overturning the pedagogy of the oppressed and combating the banking model of education (teacher deposits information into students).
The problem focused model of education allows for education for critical consciousness through the students' dynamic interaction with questions, the open-ended questions of the inquiry process.
Anything less than the problem focused model of education amounts to the domestication of humans -- the taming of people, taking away the freedom of thought & critical thinking that allows for praxis.
What's the biggest reason teachers don't use the problem focused model of education?
De manera detallada y a partir de su experiencia, Freire describe el proceso de alfabetización de hombres y mujeres brasileñas como una manera de hacerlas conscientes de su importante rol en el desarrollo de la cultura y sobre su propia capacidad de reflexionar. La educación es vista entonces como una manera de generar seres autónomos
Cuando un autor escribe de forma tan linda y tan cierta sobre la importancia de la educación es normal que a nosotros, los maestros, se nos pongan los pelos de punta, un brillo especial en los ojos y nos lata un poquito más deprisa el corazón.
Sé que corro el riesgo de caer en las cursilerías pero será porque sigo con el "subidón" en el cuerpo.Recomiendo este libro a docentes de todas las etapas educativas.
Gracias Freire por recordarme que la educación es una fuerza de transformación del mundo y que hemos de seguir trabajando para cambiar los sistemas obsoletos hacia una práctica de la libertad.
"Knowing, whatever its level, is not the act by which a Subject transformed into an object docilely and passively accepts the contents others give or impose on him or her.
Knowledge, on the contrary, necessitates the curious presence of Subjects confronted with the world.
It requires their transforming action on reality.
It demands a constant searching.
It claims from each person a critical reflection on the very act of knowing.
It must be a reflection which recognizes the knowing process, and in this recognition becomes aware of the "raison d'être" behind the knowing and the conditioning to which that process is subject."
Very good philosophical + sociological observations of authoritarian societies and of democratic education, yet the simplistic view of the world (black or white only) and the overuse of jargons and unfamiliar terms (which ironically tells how aloof an educator Paulo is) gave the book some setbacks. Overall its pretty damn good.
Note to self: Re-Read this book.
Thin volume that covers material more fully fleshed out in Pedagogy of the Oppressed, but with added emphasis on the gradual and incremental move from "massification" to "education."
A revolutionary brief text for teachers who wish to learn the way of understanding, instead of what is understood.It effected my style of teaching.
My favourite Freire so far. More practical. Very inspiring.
La única razón por la que lo leí es porque tuve que hacerlo para una clase, ya que no es el tipo de libro que me gusta. Y a pesar de que lo leí a las apuradas me gustó y hubo partes que me parecieron muy interesantes. Seguramente en un futuro, cuando tenga más tiempo libre, lo vuelva a leer más detenidamente.
Although quite specific on subject matter, that of teaching illiterate adults in South America, Freire is such an incredible humanist with ideas that are fundamental and transcend to education as a whole.
This is an amazing and inspiring book for any educator that has felt that the current/historical way of teaching leads to the continual submission to authority instead of the liberation on the individual.
This book on "critical pedagogy" opened up a whole new world to me. Next up is Friere's classic in the field: Pedagogy of the Oppressed.
A great read for anyone who is connected with the educational system in one way or another. Anyone who claims to be an educator should read this.
Paulo Freire fue un grandísimo educador y en este libro comparte las técnicas que utilizó en el Brasil de los 60's para apoyar a cierta población analfabeta.
Es una lástima que la educación en las escuelas, por lo menos en México, siga igual de estancada con sus sistemas de memorización y sumisión a la verbosidad que manejan los "maestros".
Aunque en realidad él no es quien hace que las personas lo aprendan, ellas (en conjunto con los educadores) lo descubren y es ahí cuando aparece el verdadero conocimiento, ya que lo hacen propio.Muy recomendable para todos aquellos interesados en la educación.
The radical necessarily engages in dialogue, as it is necessary to continually refine theory with experience, while the sectarian utilizes propaganda as a way to massify change.Friere argues that in order for an individual to be truly educated, he/she must understand the context in which they are situated.
Each illustration has an accompanying description that gives a kind of mock scenario in which the individual is situated, as a way to gain insight into the social and cultural context.The book ends with Extension or Communication, an essay in which Friere argues the importance of semantics in education.
The Introduction to Education for Critical Consciousness starts right out with a little something about Freire's dialectical ability to move beyond his own superceded, potentially naive work without totally denigrating it, and I believe that is just about the best descriptor I can gather for this aggregation of two of his earlier essays.The first, Education as the Practice of Freedom, gives a broad exposition of the social dynamics in which Freire's own work was embedded - of Brazil's historical superimposition of European strucures and the requisite massification - before diving into the particulars of his own methodology with the initially "semi-intransitively conscious" peasants of early-mid-60's Brazil.The second, Extension or Communication, while spending much energy in a Jared Diamond-esque chewing of the theoretical cud on the inherent difference between coercive, propagandistic, purely technocratic rural extension, and an education that enables both educator-educatee and educatee-educator Subjects to examine the social relations that result in the latter's own cultural milieu, does serve as the core of his thinking, and can be seen very much as the precursor to Pedagogy of the Oppressed, as well as being embodied in all subsequent Participary approaches to the project cycle, in development parlance.Basically, education with, not for.
Leí este libro por encargo de trabajo.Sabía a grandes rasgos las lineas en que trabajaba este autor, por lo que no me pareció una obra pesada, aunque si lo es teóricamente. Encontré varias líneas filosóficas con las epistemológias de la deconolización, por lo que desde en un principio me enganché con el libro. Es una obra que fue combativa en su tiempo y aún con vigencia. A mi juicio debe de ser lectura básica para los aspirantes a normalistas de toda Latinoamérica. RECOMENDABLE SI...- Tú sueño en la vida es ser maestro y no del montón.
Clásico, los conceptos que aporta a la Pedagogía este autor se configuran en una suerte de columna vertebral sobre la que se sostiene el "Pensamiento del Sur".
En materia de educación y comunicación, el autor hace hincapié en recuperar el verdadero concepto de comunicación (comunidad-común) en el diálogo entre iguales, en la interacción educandos-educadores, que somos todos en distintos contextos a lo largo de nuestra vida.
Esta verdadera comunicación, es aquella que puede llevarnos a la liberación.
Pasar de un paradigma deshumanizante, bancario, domesticador a uno crítico, de procesos, que día a día nos haga más humanos.
questions (primarily to j):of those i borrowed, are there any books you'd particularly like back this weekend (off hand i remember this, hagakure, weil, leduc)?&&, aside from finding it discussion-worthy that freire also uses the "[culture:] waves" concept, is all this stuff about epochal transition (while super interesting/awesome) already outdated?
is it even possible anymore to grasp any epoch as it occurs, let alone "intervene in reality" to reach the sort of integration he talks about in asserting the self as subject (regardless of education)?& if not, would that be a tiny part of why all of the symptoms of the adaptive man --- imprisoned in the present, "crushed, diminished," facing the "dynamic of transition" with "tragic hopelessness & generalized fear" --- just kinda sound like everyone?
peripherally?
In this book, Freire essentially provides a guideline for achieving the epistemological ideal: consciousness-raising, a forever evolving process of how we come to know - with a specific focus on the institution of education.
Basically, if you are interested in radically changing the way we think in our culturally specific education institutions, this book is for you.
If the practice of critical self-reflection as a gateway to mental growth is a lifestyle of yours, this book is for you.
If you believe in the collective and that the collective must not remain mentally or ideologically stagnant, this book is for you.
I found this text to be quite abstract and at times contradictory.
It's filled with jargon, which I found odd considering the subject matter (how can any society aim for critical consciousness when this idea is theorized in such abstract terms that appeal only to intellectuals or academics?).
The concepts of this text exist in obscure, intellectualized realms and so any connection to real-life experiences is completely lacking.
The repetitiveness of his concepts & ideas seem to mask the fact that there is no real theoretical development here.
I was surprisingly disappointed considering how often I have heard Freire cited and discussed.
Excellent book in regards to discussing the philosophy, theory, & politics as critical components of education as well as demonstrating how education is a tool for teaching people critical thinking NOT teaching them to parrot random statements fed by society. The book also provides an amazing format for creating a Saturday school like program for teaching literacy as well as critical social and political consciousness to underserved & underclass communities. Crucial read for any organizer. Its a quick read, I finished it in under an hour.
"This undertaking requires something basic from any one of the Subjects participating in it-that they ask themselves if they really believe in the people, in ordinary people, in the peasants. They're capable of communing with them, of "proclaiming" the world with them. If they are incapable of believing in the peasants, communing with them, they will at best be cold technicians. They will probably be technocrats, or even good reformers. But they will never be educators who will carry out radical transformations."Paulo Freire
focus on education theorists who analyzed democracy as a group of social practices to promote social welfare. As means to engage individuals and promote change on a systemic level in societies. Many different practitioners and researchers have recognized and practiced democracy in their lives (Dewey, 1916; Freire, 1998). They developed the basis to rethink community development, educational reform and critical thinking. They inspire movements throughout different fields of knowledge and research on civic engagement.
Paulo Freyre fue un hombre que hizo una lectura compleja de su tiempo. Capto como pocos el movimiento de la realidad y su devenir. Su praxis fue constancia de ello y, de la confianza que tenía en que "La Educación como Práctica de la Libertad", es la educación que sabe que el humano esta en el mundo y con el mundo y, por tanto, que le posibilita tomar conciencia del lugar que ocupa en este y su capacidad de transformarlo.
This book is one of my educational bibles. It is also an outstanding work on managing culture change through dialogue. A surprisingly easy read due to Freire's clear thinking, the book has great depth and insight.
Fue para la universidad. Me gusto, ver como la educación puede ser puesta en otro contexto y puede hacer maravillas por una sociedad.
Quizás si no lo hubiera leído obligada y con tan poco tiempo, lo hubiera disfrutado más. Pero es maravilloso.
It seems like it was talking about any country of Latin America.
