https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667985.Chobits_Vol_1
I have no idea what's so appealing about this series, but it's definitely something.
The story isn't all that broad, the characters are mostly comic relief, and Chii is so adorable that it makes one sick to their stomach.
Yet something kept me reading this series, and I didn't regret it one bit.If I were good at writing reviews, I'd give you a synopsis, then my deep thoughts on where CLAMP when wrong or right, but I'm not, so basically I'll just say that "Chobits" is worth a try.
Sure, it's cutesy and a little out-there, but it's an entertaining read, all the same.
I can imagine otakus loving it, since most of them are guys obsessed with doll and no interest in real life girls.
To imagine that most people in this manga falls for a robot...
O_O huh, how cute **vomits**The art is beautiful, the concept of robots is interesting, hence 2 stars, but the MC is a perv (supposed to be a funny, nice character), the persocom (the main girl-robot) is a lolita who is constantly providing fanservice, and the whole thing of falling for the robot/using them as sexual objects is highly disturbing.
Una historia tierna, muy sublime y eso me encantó. Como el amor puede sobrepasar todo y poco a poco nacer en algo que se supone no puede sentir como uno, como un ser humano. Simplemente me encantó!!!
This manga wants you to believe it's a cutesy love story, something that teenagers and adults alike can enjoy.Don't be taken in. This is a creepy, exploitative, fan-servicey ode to submissive lolis. The art is decent, but that's the only redeeming factor of the series. I got through a couple of these books and just had to put the series down. I just couldn't stomach this any longer. Chi did not strike me as 'adorable', she struck me as a deeply creepy, deeply infantilized archetype representing the worst anime nerd's wet dream. No desire to finish this. It was garbage.
Back to my favorite mangaka team, CLAMP, and this is one of their mangas that I was most excited about.It's mature and has a boy for a protagonist, which is different from their usual stuff I've read, but it's extremely fun.
Reading this I realized that Absolute Boyfriend (which is one of my favorite mangas) is completely inspired and adapted by this, and I find myself loving Chobits even more.Chobits tell the story of a Japanese society where robots/artificial intelligence/whatever you call them are a big part of society, people get them to use as computers, assistants, and some get overly attached to them.
This series is adorable. Both the anime and mangas are on the top of my love list. They are pretty much like any other anime ever ( boy finds girl, cares for girl, others wanna kill girl because they don't understand her..) but still! You will love this series, I guarantee it <3
Eight volumes total, read all of them several times in high school during my manga phase. The plot is your basic "We Designed Robots That Look Like Super Hot Underage Girls Because This Is The Creepy Future" featuring an awkward 20 year old guy finding a previously-mentioned robot in the trash. Hilarity and much inappropriate content ensues.
He certainly can't afford a persocom.“Persocom” requires an explanation.
It's a portmanteau of “personal computer,” but, in this series, they’re not boxy appliances, but humanoid robots that look like young girls.
The one laptop we see is a young toddler, and there's even a wee, elfin PDA.Anyway, Hideki lacks a persocom, as well as the means to afford one, so he’s amazed to find Chi tied up with the trash.
She seems much more humanlike, and it begins to look as though he's stumbled upon a true AI.
It's an intriguing beginning to what promises to be an interesting series.
This is a really cute graphic novel that I would recommend for older teens, possible those in college (as there are some scenes and situations in here that I certainly would not permit my 17 year old to see--although, it's most likely what they think about all the time).The characters, especially Chi and Plum, are just the cutest and their functions are something that any technology nut would love to own, particularly owning Plum (at least I would love to own a mini PDA that looked like a cupie doll).
Chi is so cute
a doll trying to find what love really is, and recover memories from the past. very cute.
Quiero ver como evoluciona y como sale de las situaciones insólitas o inverosimiles que se le plantean
*Warning Mild Spoilers*This is a very hard Manga to review. I am torn, on the one hand I loved the concept of Persocon's. They are super cute and to be honest I want my own!Then there is also "Plum" that is a small persocon, and called a laptop. How awesome do you get!? Then there is the other side of me that felt a little "dirty" reading this. Why does Chi's on switch have to be down there?! Seriously?? And why does Hideki's friend have to fondle Chi's breast?! Then there is the fact that all t
I am torn, on the one hand I loved the concept of Persocon's.
Then there is the other side of me that felt a little "dirty" reading this.
And why does Hideki's friend have to fondle Chi's breast?!
Then there is the fact that all the persocon's are scantly dressed and the whole thing is just creepy.And then Hideki has this big issue affording Underwear, come on dude, it is not that expensive and why are you buying it from a Lingerie shop anyway?
Will I read on?
I have no idea.
No idea why I liked it as much as I did tbh.
Chobits is not one of CLAMP's stronger works, but it's an enjoyable read. The manga obviously lacks some of the adorableness of hearing Chii (to be fair, the adorableness of hearing her is offset by just how much more disturbing the blank-eyed blank-slate girl effect is when it's in motion, but watching her march and sing the "pan-tsu!" song is endearing), but I think the manga's plotting is stronger. It's a balancing act.
This must be the straight boy version of shojo, and I'm not loving it. I always find the robot girl theme revolting and this is no exception. There is something very disturbing about it. on the positive side, the art was pretty.
I still wonder why the on/off button was THERE!
This one was way to cringy for my tastes with it's over-the-top sexualization, infantilazation, and consent issues. Won't be reading more from this series.
4.25I'll probably just try and do a series review once i'm done all of them
Chii je neskutečně cute :33 Kde mám sakra další díl?4/5*
Great story!
This review is for the series as a whole:If you're familiar with CLAMP, then you already know that they write some seriously crazy, confusing stories (See: Tsubasa Reservoir Chronicle, XXXholic).
They're good, but they're almost always convoluted, creepy and downright strange.
Chobits is actually one of the more straightforward examples of a CLAMP work, based on my experience with this manga artist group.The artwork in this series is completely gorgeous, done in the same style as the two series already mentioned.
Of course, it's also really creepy.
Gross!This is my second time reading this series, since I wanted to review it.
I actually bought the $30 complete set of all Chobits series as opposed to buying them all individually, so I'll just put the review for the entire series on this first volume review.Chobits is basically about a guy named Hedeki, who is living in Tokyo while attending a prep school in order to get into collage next year.
I love Chi's hair and clothes, everything was so pretty and very inspiring to me as an artist myself.
er, mature at times, perhaps a bit TOO mature, let's just say that as a 13 year old I wouldn't have read it yet if I had known.
This review will be for Chapters 1 - 12 in the Chobits: Omnibus, Vol. 1 omnibus edition. Original Review - March 4th, 2013 (Rating: 4) : Well that escalated.. I mean ended quickly, and abruptly. Unexpected cliffhanger aside, Chobits is strangely captivating. The main character, Hideki, is comically (and on occasion, annoyingly) immature, but endearing. Then there is "the star of the show", Chi, who, as everyone says at least once upon meeting her, is incredibly cute. While the immediate attracti
This review will be for Chapters 1 - 12 in the Chobits: Omnibus, Vol. 1 omnibus edition.
Original Review - March 4th, 2013 (Rating: 4)
The main character, Hideki, is comically (and on occasion, annoyingly) immature, but endearing.
Then there is "the star of the show", Chi, who, as everyone says at least once upon meeting her, is incredibly cute.
While the immediate attraction to the story is hard to place, I think the strength of this graphic novel and quite possibly the series, is the reader's curiosity about Chi.
It seems I may have initially reviewed this section through rose colored glasses.
Not only that, but the object of desire is often Chi, robot with a child-like/tween personality and appearence.
So for Chi to be switched/turned on by her private parts just feels so..
Hideki is meant to be this comedic 'nice-guy' who's just such an average guy with all his porn and indecent thoughts, but he's really a perverted man interested in younger girls (not just Chi, but his co-worker too), who only seems to view women as sexual objects and is just really chauvinistic - he want Chi just to look cute and make him meals.I'm going to give this another go in the next volume, but so far this manga just creeps me out.
First of all, the female "lead" is a humanoid computer who is rescued from someone's trash by Hideki, who really wants a computer of his own.
And she's attracted to him and keeps throwing herself at him, which would not necessarily bother me except that the way you turn on these Chobits is by inserting your finger into...
And the way a friend tries to find her manufacturer information is by fondling her naked breasts.
Also, the rest of the humanoid computers we meet in the story are highly sexy, scantily clad volumptuo-trons.
I've heard about this series and so snagged a copy when I saw it at the library.The art is nice and it's an interesting idea, but it makes me a little uncomfortable as some manga does, since the concept of computers designed to appear like beautiful women, which you entirely control, is squicky to say the least.I'm not sure I'll continue with the series but we'll see.
I am not much for gothic lolita robots :/I preferKarakuri Odette Volume 1Because the emphasis is more on the main character in that being treated as a person (mostly)instead of a sexobject and/or fanservice.
preface: i'm a clamp fan. i am pretty much "doomed" to like anything by clamp. this series is great, and pretty much the animated series verbatim, so i don't feel like you're getting anything *more* from this form or anything, but it's good. It's definitely of the goofy/romance genre, if you're into that.
Not as much fun as XxxHolic, but still a guilty pleasure...that I actually feel no guilt over. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to stuff my face with cookies and binge watch ALL the Chobits on Netflix.Also, panties, and the comedic use of them on ones forehead. That is all.
My first manga - this started me off! A great, sweet little series with a less-than-satisfying last volume; but the rest is worth it.
