https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/908053.Diana
And a little love here and there might just be what saves us all.Andrew Morton brilliantly captured the mood of Diana's tenure as Princess of Wales.
Her rise to infamy played out during a time when technology was just beginning to flourish into a mass media-instant communication frenzy.In this story I felt the real Diana, the woman who just wanted to be loved, and yet had so much love to give.
Andrew Morton wrote:As historians reflect on her renown and her legacy, they will come to judge Diana, Princess of Wales as one of the most influential figures of this, or any other, age.

If I read this book when it came out it would have been a solid 5 stars.
This book by Andrew Morton did pave the way to other books that came after it.
This book read 20 years after the death of Diana, while the content of this book was told in many documentaries that have been produced over the last 25 years.
The book tells the story of Diana from her youth till her almost the early 1990s.
Diana being hounded by the press.
Diana knowing about Camilla.
Do I already own it in hardcover? Yes.  “For all their privileges, their legions of servants, their chauffeur-driven cars, private yachts and planes, they are prisoners of society’s expectations and puppets of the system.”  And we'll never be royals... 🎶
I figured now, as an adult, was a good time to read her story, understand the facts, and have a grownup perspective of what was really going on in the Princess's life.I guess this review is going to be a mix of what I thought about Diana based on the book more than what I thought of the book itself.
It baffled me that someone who hated being in the public eye, someone who wanted a husband who loved and paid attention to her-- someone who knew what she wanted-- would choose to marry into the royal family, specifically Charles.
This account sheds light on how the Queen did see Diana as a threat to the royal family, not power-wise but systemically.
One point I got from it was that Diana forced the monarchy to adapt to the new millennium, and it's probably the reason the monarchy is held in high regard today, despite a tough economy.
I'd say that the traits Diana instilled in Prince William is what makes him so popular and has gotten a new generation on board.
I'd also say that this book led to the public disdain of Prince Charles.
All in all, this is a good account of a facade the public created and a defeated woman's desire to overcome.
Diana, basically, wanted her words to get out and to set down her story before Prince Charles could.
She wanted to attack Prince Charles and, at times, it shows.
They have all of that in common and if they had been different people, they really could have done great things together.The woman Diana was at the end of her life, I love.
It's incredibly sad when you think of the life that was cut short when she was just starting to feel comfortable in her own skin.While I did really enjoy this book, it's very biased towards Diana.
Tabloid fodder, that's all this feels like.
I didn't learn anything new from it and I honestly feel guilty for owning it.
A person's life isn't meant to be judged and picked over so intensely by so many, regardless of who they are.
I had a Princess Diana photo book when I was a kid and I've followed the British royal family ever since then, keeping up with the princes and being enthralled with William and Kate's wedding and the children...
It just makes me wish that this book had been done better, because Diana was such a fascinating person.
She deserved better.
I read the original however long ago it was. This was broken up into the original 'in her own words', an editorial of the original timeline and a post publication and her death.It was horribly exploitative. I was a lot younger when I read this the first time. Now I just feel sorry for Diana. Yikes
Blah!
This book leaves the reader wondering who was more at fault for the Windsor's marriage failure.
From what this author writes, it had nothing to do with Diana's immaturity, bulimia, half-hearted suicide attempts, intellectual capacity (or lack thereof), or her extra-marital affairs.
The whole fault lay with Charles and his philandering with Camilla.
Isn't it always the guy's fault?
:) The bottom line is that if a person is not born into the public spotlight, it's a tough lifestyle to adapt to.
If a person does not wish to live in a fishbowl, he or she should not enter it in the first place.
A harrowing read, which opened my eyes to the suffering Diana went through, including Charles cheating on her with Camilla even before he married Diana. Really exposes the sinister behaviour of the Royal Family.
کتابی که من خوندم به اسم دیانا نویسنده اش آنا پاسترناک بوداینم مشخصات کتابhttp://www.ketab.org.ir/bookview.aspx...
I grew up with Diana as the "People's Princess." I remember my mom waking my sister and I up so early those many years ago to watch the royal wedding.
Like so many in the world, I watched Diana through the years with fascination and admiration.
To read those notes, then read the full text of the book made it evident that she fully participated in telling her story.
There are also added chapters detailing the years between when the book was originally published and Diana's death.I ended the book feeling so sad for Diana.
A biografia é boa, mas o autor coloca Lady Di como a santa sofredora. Dramático demais, principalmente nos últimos capítulos.
I stayed up late both nights just to read another chapter, because I wanted more.I think I admire the author of this book.
It must be very difficult to be, according to the London Sunday Times (and his own blurb on the back cover of the book), "the leading royal writer," while at the same time writing a biography about someone so beautiful and shattered and alive as Diana - because it was written in 1992, before she died.
Also, I should mention that I read a 1993 edition of this book which was published before Diana divorced Charles.
Maybe it’s true, perhaps he’s really like that, but I wanted to see at least one ray of hope in this book, something overriding those terrible sufferings Diana had endured, but there was almost nothing cheerful or hopeful in the description of her life as a Princess.A part of me wanted to believe that this biography is exaggerated and hyperbolical and I think this ruined the credibility of this book for me.
I'm not usually one for celebrity biographies or memoirs, but when I read that this biography of Diana was based upon her own words, my curiosity got the best of me. I'm old enough to remember Diana as the mistreated royal and to have been affected by her death. I found this book fascinating not only as a way to find out the facts about her marriage and life as a royal, but as I learned more about Diana's childhood and personality, I couldn't help but try and understand her motives and psyche.
I'm one of those people that was, and continues to be, fascinated by Diana.
This book was an interesting one bc it was written before her death and even before her divorce was finalized!
I enjoyed getting to (supposedly) get a look into her everyday life from childhood to acting as Princess.
We will never know everything about this enchanting woman, but it won't stop us from trying.
I would really like to find another biography about Diana that is up-to-date and regarded as at least somewhat reliable and not just tabloid fodder.
This was an interesting book, but I definitely want more.
Watching The Crown inspired me to read this! Read this if you would like to know a lot of the personal details of Diana s life. Quite interesting for the fact that she authorized it and worked with the author, Andrew Morton. Ultimately very sad to learn how trapped she was by the royal way of life and a man who didn t love her.
This book made me sad and it was so detailed that I couldn't really finish. The marriage seemed doomed to failure and made me terribly biased against Camilla/Charles. My mom would have loved this book. I wonder if she read it.
Although not actively seeking the information, I've found myself watching and reading a few documentaries and news articles about her and her life as the wife of Prince Charles.
Sadly, it felt largely like I was reading the same book twice.
Morton did add chapters at the end about Diana's death, but that story is also widely known so there wasn't anything new there.
The book is in essence about Diana though, so the bias was to be expected.
It was good to read everything in order though and I don't think there's anything else I need to know about Princess Diana now!
I've always been fascinated by Diana, probably due to being 7 years old when she and Charles got married (at such a young age it made me think that fairy tales are actually true!), but after reading this book I gained a whole new respect for her.Make sure you read the edition that was updated after her death.
This edition also has the advantage of telling the rest of Diana's story -- from the time the book was originally published (and the Palace's reaction to the revelations it contained) all the way through her death.
Books that are very powerful can make the reader connect the story back to their life. Diana: Her True Story: In Her Own Words, by Andrew Morton, is an example of this. After reading this book, I wish that the royal family had been nicer to Princess Diana. Ever since she married Prince Charles, they did not care about how she felt. Many times, throughout Princess Diana’s marriage to him, Prince Charles emotionally hurt her. He made many comments to her, either that were offensive, or showed a ca
After reading this book, I wish that the royal family had been nicer to Princess Diana.
For example, at the beginning of Princess Diana’s marriage to Prince Charles, he seemed to be very nice to her, especially from what people saw in their public lives.
But, of course they were wrong, because truly, many parts of her life were a nightmare, for Princess Diana to bare.Since reading this book, I wonder if there are any other famous people who are like Princess Diana.
This was one of the aspects of the royal family that Princess Diana never liked.
I liked it so much because the author told Princess Diana's story to let people know what was really wrong with her.
I think the author wanted people to know why she was the way she was.
The book taught me that I should never look at someone a certain way without walking in their shoes or considering what life is like for them.
The author wrote the book in third person and I wished it could have been from Princess Diana's point of view just to give a more effective result of how she really was but I know that would be hard considering Andrew Morton (the author) is not Princess Diana.
I think the book told Diana's story very well.

The last chapter, 'I did my best', perfectly closes the biography and gave me the kind of inspiration I was looking for.
I read non fiction after a long time and I don't know whether my review can compare it with other biographies of Princess Diana...
but I took in every word of this book (which is the reason it took me 30 days to read 158 pages :p ) and saw astounding parallels with the life an ordinary Pakistani woman.
I wish we all find that equilibrium that Diana did.
The author magnified the emotionally significant parts of her life very well!
I'm not sure what it is about the House of Windsor but those royals make me cry every time.
Perhaps it is the drama that hooks me; Diana's self-description on her wedding day as "a lamb to the slaughter".
Poor Di. All I know is that the Princess was a born tragedy, her life over and out of her hands before she could say tea and crumpets.
She is, and will forever be the most famous, widely recognized person in the world.
That says a little about her life and even more about her death.
Has anyone noticed how hot Prince Harry is these days?
Sobbed my eyeball out, especially towards the end. What a sad life. Prince Charles is a full-on dick.
Very interesting and extremely sad.
I think it was along the lines of he told Prince Charles he could still see Camilla after he was married, and I thought Diana didn’t like him because of it, so I was surprised when later in the book it said she had an amicable relationship with her father-in-law.
