https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8140454-the-dangerous-dimension
I can't forgive him scientology - but I do find his ideas fun and easily digested.
Late for a lecture he’s supposed to be giving, he spontaneously devises an equation to allow transport via thought.
Even though he’s at his wit’s end by the time he devises Equation D – the solution to the madness he created at the beginning of the story – he never really loses his appeal as a crazy scientist on the verge of a big discovery.The Dangerous Dimension can be summed up quite well by this one quote, taken from early on in the story.
Mudge loses control of his thoughts at various times and winds up in places he never dreamed – or desired – to visit.
While a cute concept, the story just does not work all that wellOriginally published in the magazine Astounding Science Fiction in 1938.Re-published in e-book format by Galaxy Press in 2010.On the internet you can find rumors that this was L.
Ron Hubbard's first science fiction story.
Purportedly, the editor was looking for something that was breezy, funny and easy-to-read.
I have no idea if this really true, but this short story is certainly all of those things.Sadly, it's just not a very good short story.Dr. Henry Mudge has worked out the mathematics of how to transport oneself instantly from one place to another just by imagining that place.
So, when someone...Read more at: http://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/2014/...
I did finish the book however did not care for it.The book is short it would not take long for you to read.
Equation c that was the reason he was able to imagine a place and be there.
He reversed the equations and that is what made it possible for him to let his mind take him to another place.
Equation D is what made him not be able to go where his thoughts would take him.Did it happen or was in all in his mind?
I have it on my nook if anyone would like to read it i can send it to you.
standard pulp fiction at its best! This was a fun and nostalgic read back to a time when science fiction was alive with the likes of John Campbell, Robert Heinlein, Issac Asimov, et al. There is nothing too astounding in the story, or reflective of humanity, but just Hubbard's storytelling style and the idioms of the day made this a fun read
Haha. Good book!! A great sci-fi adventure with a definite sense of humor. :P I liked how the one place he most didn't want to think about and that would mean certain death if he transported there, ended up being the sun. lol. Very true though; he would have been dead from the heat before he could have ever thought himself elsewhere.
Muy entretenida historia corta. Ingeniosa y divertida.
short read.
Ahhh, the power of the mind... This was one hysterical romp through space and time. A very quick read, full of laughs and ideas that might keep you up at night. What if, indeed.
A fantastic little short story by L. Ron Hubbard about a man who must deal with the horror of being able to teleport anywhere. It is quick, witty and a nice ready for a 20 minutes.
A short, fun, light-hearted vintage pulp read.
My first L. Ron Hubbard book and very impressed with the writing. It won't be my last book by this author.
Yep! L. Ron Hubbard.
This story was way too short! It was extremely fantastical and kept my interest throughout, I could not put it down!
A very fun and amusing short story about a man who instantly teleports to any place he thinks of. I really enjoyed it, wished it had been longer!
A fun little pulp story about the power of the mind.
