https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85221.The_Switch
My annual dive into the pulp fiction of Elmore Leonard begins with The Switch, the 1978 novel that introduced small time crooks Ordell Robbie & Louis Gara and globetrotting pothead Melanie Ralston who sticks her big toe into the men's business.
When Frank announces he's going out of town to Freeport, Grand Bahamas on business for a week, Mickey has little to say in the matter.Meanwhile, Ordell Robbie reunites with his friend Louis Gara, who's spent the last three years in Huntsville State Penitentiary.
While Ordell and Louis stash their hostage at Richard's house on State Street, Frank Dawson galivants in Freeport with his mistress, Melanie Ralston, the best character in the book.
This is the first caper starring Ordell and Louis and is a pretty slick piece of work, as befits a book by Elmore Leonard.As always with old Dutch, the dialogue is slicker than a water slide covered with Vaseline.
Ordell and Louis, the criminals in the piece, are far more likable than their apparent mark, Mickey Dawson's asshole husband Frank.
Ordell does some scheming with Melanie behind the backs of Louis and Frank and Mickey steps up.Still, I had a hard time rating this book.
There wasn't a lot to distinguish it from the rest of the Leonard library.
"Trick or treat, Mama" - Elmore Leonard, The SwitchA solid early Leonard Detroit crime novel with all the usual Leonard suspects.
More than anything, this novel is a modern-day "awakening" of the female protagonist/victim.
She moves from being a passive victim/wife to being an agent in her own new destiny; from being a scene in her own life to being the principal actor.
There is always a slight Karmic vibe to the Leonard novels I've read.
It isn't just a simple equation of crime ≠ pay.
No. Leonard isn't that trite.
So what prompts a huge nerd like me to pick up Elmore Leonard?Two things.
I was happy to sit back, relax and go with the flow.So Mickey, a female (took me a page or so), is wife to a rich and crooked developer.
Mickey gets kidnapped while her husband is out of the country on business.
Things don't quite go how they should.It's a light and fun story with some fun shifty characters.
So I had fun with my first Elmore Leonard, and I'll likely read some more.
It definitely has some merit if it kept me of all people turning it's pages.
The particular style that Leonard chooses to end this fun little adventure in reminds me of the Coen Brothers movie A Serious Man and in a similar way for me serves as a one paragraph punchline to the 184 page novel.

A pair of low-level criminals, Louis Gara and Ordell Robbie, decide to kidnap the wife of well-to-do real estate developer, Frank Dawson, and hold her hostage for $1million.
It takes a third of the novel before Mickey (Frank’s wife) is kidnapped, then at least another third before she’s let go over a misunderstanding, then the novel meanders at an excruciatingly slow pace until the blessed end.
Leonard ends the whole thing on the implication that Mickey joins Louis and Ordell in taking her husband for what he’s worth.
Those books not only feature good dialogue and characters but also fun, fast-moving plots - unlike The Switch.
Unlike my disciplined (many might say "anal retentive") approach with the works of other crime novelists, I tend to read Leonard's novels randomly--not in publication order, but rather just grabbing one off the shelf every few months and devouring it.
I'll get through all of his books eventually, and when I do I'll probably start reading them all over again.
This one is about two cons (Leonard's classic white guy and black guy) who decide to kidnap the wife of a rich but shady Detroit businessman while he's on an adulterous business trip to the Bahamas.
Not Leonard's best, but a winner.
“There was no other Mickey perched there watching, prompting words the nice Mickey would never say.
There was only one Mickey here— the Mickey she wanted to be— and it was about time to let her loose.”I’m not sure, as recently as a year ago, if this would have been amongst my favorite of Elmore’s.
I get Mickey.
I love Mickey.
The fact that she forms the unlikely friendship with Louis— without the cliche slide into romance— is only one of the many reasons I love her.
And by extension, why I love the way Elmore writes.
Elmore Leonard books are always a pleasure to read. This book is a solid 4 stars out of 5. Two minor criminals kidnap the wife of a wealthy developer who has a secret bank account in the Bahamas with a million dollars. They demand that million dollars. But he went to the Bahamas to be with his mistress while his lawyer serves his wife with divorce papers. Leonard has the dialect of the criminals down pat. I read it in about 36 hours.
Easy-breezy read, what’s not to like? A couple of Detroit ex-cons team up with a neo-Nazi numbskull to extort a cool million from a lyin’ cheatin’ SOB who it turns out doesn’t want his trophy wife back enough to pay the ransom. Great fun ensues, as they re-strategize, this time with the help of the wife — and the girlfriend stashed away in the Bahamas along with the hidden off-shore bank account. Since this was written in the 1970’s, it can make you almost nostalgic for the days of flared pants and wall phones:)
These are: “Four Novels of the 1970s.” “The Switch” represents a departure for Leonard.
It’s all about the kidnapping of a typical suburban wife whose husband cares much more for his golf record at the club than he does about her.
They plan to kidnap his wife and held her until they can convince the husband that one million dollars will have her returned to him.
He’s a little slow in getting back to them, and in that time his wife realizes that her material worth to him is a little hazy at best.
Some writers play God with their characters.
Leonard’s books are usually akin to watching people move through life and reacting to events as they happen.
In other words, Leonard writes about people guided not by God, but by Life.To this end, The Switch is a typical Elmore Leonard novel.
It's purely entertaining and the story also serves as an insight into human nature.I don’t think that Elmore Leonard could write a story that I did not enjoy.
In being critical of The Switch, I would say that the characters were more truer-to-form than is typical for Leonard.
I was resolved not to like Elmore Leonard's Switch, but as it reached the halfway point, interesting things began to happen. It starts out as a typical kidnap for ransom which unravels like a cheap suit. The clue that something was going to happen was that the kidnap victim, Mickey Dalton, was such a tabula rasa. Unfortunately, I don't think it would be fair for me to spoil the ending for you -- and that ending was the most interesting think about the book.
Audio book that added a lot to a dull story. I think that this is the first "low tire" that I have experienced; at least lately. the sequel to this book is "Rum Punch" which Tarantino made into "Jackie Brown" which I greatly enjoyed so I'll read that and see what happens to the three knuckleheads from "The Switch".
Classic Elmore Leonard.Well written with memorable characters.
However, when reading the novel, although both are very similar and the film (renamed 'Life of Crime' to avoid confusion with the earlier Jennifer Aniston movie 'The Switch') is a very faithful adaptation (helped by the fact that Elmore Leonard always adds a cinematic element to his novels), I was surprised by the social commentary prevalent in 'The Switch' that 'Life of Crime' left out.
Leonard really got the essence of the crime novel down, and this book is a reminder of the crime novel's ability to shed a light on the social and political climates of reality and Leonard's mastery of creating colourful stories and characters that all feel as real as friends of the reader.
I like Leonard's way of writing books in general. Lots of interesting dialog. This one added a lot of inner thought, and I didn't think it fit in as well as it could have. And the plot seemed a bit stretched out, with the introduction of our bad guys and their scheme, and that inner rambling taking a lot of space. The ending was very nicely done, a bit of a deserved twist.
Great stuff and definitely a book I would recommend to anyone asking me to start getting into Leonard. Ordell and Louis are great dumbshit thugs, and it's hard not to feel empathy for kidnapped housewife Mickey finding her strength in a terrible situation among bad men. Shithead character named Frank #1,354 present and accounted for.
This was the first book I read by Elmore Leonard, and after hearing so many good things about his work it is a disappointment. The book is a fine read, but ultimately isn't very interesting. I had heard great things about Leonard's character driven stories, but while elements of that are certainly to be found, overall it is just sort of bland.
Unusually slow to start for Leonard, but the final play is worth sticking around for. He also gives a good heroine in Mickey, whose trajectory in the book puts me in mind of what might happen if a man turned his hand to a Mary Kay Andrews plot.
Despite all this, Mickey doesn't even seem to think anything is wrong; this is just "how it goes," and she forces herself to feel lucky that she's taken care of, even by someone like Frank.It isn't until Ordell Robbie and Louis Gara kidnap her that Mickey finally sees how less than idyllic her life really is.
It is, however, implied that Frank will screw her over in the divorce, and he'll be very happy with Melanie; as much as this is progress for Mickey, it still feels like a hollow victory, and leaves you wondering what the point of the whole thing was.That's where the very end comes in.
The first novel in the Ordell Robbie and Louis Gara series that saw its sequel, Rum Punch, famously adapted into Quentin Tarantino's Jackie Brown, The Switch looks at how the characters in that book ended up where they were.
As someone who read Rum Punch first not realising there was a first novel in the series it was fun to revisit these characters, even if I can't quite get the image of Samuel L.
I’ve wanted to read an Elmore Leonard book since I started Justified, which fast became one of my favorite television shows.
Every review I read said it was a good Leonard adaptation - dramatic but also witty, unique.
The Switch did not disappoint.
I found myself laughing at the same time that I was reading a genuinely good suspense/kidnapping novel.
All the characters were sharp and funny but never homogeneously so.
The prose was crisp and clear, the story simple but well-plotted.Sometimes reputations are well-earned.
This is one of those times.
This book was just a whole lot of skillful fun.
In Reservoir Dogs, Mr White tells Mr Pink he’s willing to kill when pulling a robbery. “The choice between doing ten years and taking out some stupid motherfucker ain’t no choice at all.” That line comes from this book. Ordell and Louis (who would also feature in Rum Punch, which Tarantino adapted to Jackie Brown in 1997) plan to kidnap a pseudo-tycoon’s wife for cash. Ordell shows Louis his piece. If it’s between that and doing ten years, he tells him...“I know,” Louis says. “It’s no choice.”They were right in Swingers. Everyone steals from everyone. If “everyone” is Tarantino.
What I call an airport read. It’s not my favorite genre, but this is a competent effort - sound plot, obligatory twist, humor, personal growth, come uppance - it’s all there. I guess it’s the formulaic element that disappoints me; I prefer to read literature. Book Club nomination is why I read it, and I appreciate being exposed to different things. I might read another of his on a long flight.
The book where Leonard hit his stride in the crime genre, The Switch is, next to Valdez is Coming, Leonard's best pre-1980 novel. He really makes it look easy here, with his effortless dialogue and natural plotting. It's astounding to think he was already in his 50s when he wrote this, since the book is amazingly fresh and somehow young. A superb crime novel.
I'm on quite an Elmore Leonard tear recently...Suburban Detroit mom kidnapped to extort her shady developer husband...a few twists here & there as the so-so story unfolds, but true to his style, Leonard gives us great characters & great dialogue...decent, not a waste of time!
I think I may have read this before or seen a movie based on the book...but really the reason I'm giving up on it is the nasally reader, who goes doubly nasally when he does dialogue for the most unpleasant character.
The switch...Is so good and impossible to put down. Hilarious dialogue from characters rich in personality( even likable). No other authors in this genre can touch Leonard: he is the best!
