https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/595394.Some_of_Your_Blood
A dark and creepy novella.Theodore Sturgeon’s 1961 psychological thriller reminds me of the films Birdy (Alan Parker 1984) and Vampire’s Kiss (both featuring Nicholas Cage) because of the subject matter; but this never goes over the top and Sturgeon’s great ability to produce an understated and minimalistic page-turner is in rare form. Presented in epistolary novel form, written as a series of documents – was this a tribute to Bram Stoker?This is also reminiscent of the The Great God Pan in its subtle, almost peripheral, introduction of horrific elements.
Let me tell you why.I always have had a respect and love for older horror stories.
In fact, I don't even consider this to be a true horror story.This short book, originally written in 1956, is told mostly through letters back and forth between an overworked Army psychiatrist, (Doctor Phil!), and his superior.
First off, there is a lot of humor in the letters between Dr. Phil and his superior.
I think their discussions were very subtle, but added a lot to the tale.
Of course, there are lots of clues pointing to the vampire theory as well.
Big George didn't have fangs, nor did he sleep in a coffin.
But big George did like to drink blood.
It is discovered by an Army psychiatrist that this soldier has some serious issues and that he has a deadly past.
George had an abusive, drunken father and developed an unnatural taste for blood from his mama's breast.
Aside from this upbringing I get the feeling that Big George was probably still going to grow up a few clowns shy of a full circus, but the overall combination was one that created a mindless monster that might be a combination of Frankenstein and Dracula.
What he discovers is bizarre and chilling.George’s story is told in various ways.
I listened to this on audio and narrator Malcolm Hillgartner does an amazing job with these characters, especially George.
The rest of the book consists of interviews with the doc and George and letters between the doctors as they pick and prod into George’s past in order to figure him out.
I highly recommend listening to this on audio, if you can, because the narrator adds so much life to the words.I will leave you with my favorite quote from George:“The world would be a whole lot less trouble for everybody if most people would just not talk so much.”And with that I am shutting up!
Written in 1961, Theodore Sturgeon's Some of Your Blood, is both a unique take on the vampire story (which is damn near impossible) as well a product of its times.
And for good reason, since the story of "George Smith," a disturbed American soldier, is basically an unofficial case history, revealed via a series of letters primarily between Smith's doctor and his commanding officer.
The economy of the writing is remarkable, but what mars the performance is how Sturgeon booksends the tale with a silly message to the "reader." Also, the ridiculous real name for "George Smith," which is revealed late in the book.
Like any other novel by Theodore Sturgeon that I've read, this is a literary masterwork, original, dark and deeply unconventional.
However, he never lost a great sense of balance, an elegance in his writing, and a sense of beauty.Sturgeon has often been expressing his annoyance with social mores and conventions, and in this story he is at it again, through a main character who is a prototype of the pure, natural man, clean of social rules and acquired behaviors or pre-fabricated thoughts.
Its almost as if Sturgeon bet that he could write a better vampire novel without using any of that hackneyed crap.Hillbilly Army chump "George Smith" gets himself in trouble by punching an army officer when questioned about something the military censors found in a letter to his sweetheart back home in Podunk.
Sleepless nights are perfect for reading and since this book was close at hand, and because I couldn't fall asleep last night, I started it.
Then after reading the first few paragraphs, I got up, went downstairs with pen & notebook in hand because I knew this was going to be something intensely different than normal and notebook-worthy, and sat and read slowly for hours before I absolutely had to stop.
Then I picked it up again today and finished it.
I have to digest what I've just read before posting about it, but quite frankly, it blew me away.
When he impregnates Anna, the neighbor woman, he decides to enlist in the Army, another place he feels safe, until after two years in the service, he had to unload a plane of dead soldiers.
It shakes him up and he writes a short letter to Anna, which reveals a dreadful secret.
Following a hunch, the psychiatrist testing him decides to use hypnosis, and uncovers not only deaths, but the horrific secret that caused George to snap.
Most readers either know the secret because the book has been out since 1961 and is a classic, or have read it, but I'm not going to reveal it anyway.
theodore sturgeon has always fascinated me, although i've never really liked any of his books.
i love his short story "the man who lost the sea," but the longer stuff always kind of bored me.
and i can't really say that i blame him.anyway, this book didn't feel that way at all, which is strange because it is transparently padded.
there's an experimental feel to the novel, a patchwork-cubist kind of aspect, but sturgeon keeps everything moving relentlessly forward and as a result it's a page-turner...
George turns out to be an excellent writer, a natural storyteller, and Sturgeon requests an enormous willing suspension of disbelief on the reader's part if we are to find this conceivably the work of the character.
George is a kind of innocent, but one that you would want to keep locked up for life.Sturgeon's other stylistic blunder is a prologue and epilogue in which he addresses the reader and frames the novel in what sounds like one of Boris Karloff's commentaries on Thriller, It's beneath him, or maybe i'm pretending that the novel doesn't have the pulpy origins it does.
4.5 stars. Sturgeon's classic take on the vampire myth as only he could do it. Original, provocative and disturbing.
Innovatively told through letters, interviews, and traditional narrative, Some of Your Blood effectively portrays the tragic upbringing of George Smith to his attempts at a stable life and the great love of his life to his inevitable downfall.
The take on vampirism was indeed unique, one of the best I have read, but that wasn't what struck me most about the "story." This was as far from traditional storytelling as one can get, and would probably have lesser experienced literary critics up in arms.
The book begins with a series of letters back and forth between a couple of Army psychologists who have initially conflicting views on a patient by the name of George Smith.
Anything that a reader tries to say about them either becomes spoiler, or turn out to be more of self-exploration than actual assessment of the book.THIS is one such book.I can only say two things:1.
In it, Steve Rasnic Tem candidly describes how disturbed he had felt, once he had read this book.
Even in these days when humanity surpasses bestiality in its treatment of fellow human beings, I felt almost violated by the slow unfolding of the horror in this book.2.
Frankly speaking, I don't think I can do such a thing.But you can.
Perhaps.So my humble suggestion:PLEASE READ THE BOOK.
Review to follow. I will have to think about this one
Horror? I'm not so sure. Mystery? Maybe a bit. It's hard to stick a label on this book but I can say for sure that it is a very unsettling story.
So I'd been looking for a copy of Some of Your Blood for a while now: I noticed that Amazon had it for a dollar recently, in Kindle format, but I hate paying for digital books - so I kept looking.
Buy your own mouse-chewed copy, if you're lucky enough to find one, because it's totally worth owning, and definitely going to be one of those books that I'll personally be re-reading (those are rare for me).
Theodore Sturgeon's SOME OF YOUR BLOOD suffers from the DRACULA syndrome.
and while that should provide closer access to the thoughts of the characters, it also kept the story more at arm's length so that I was less involved.Sturgeon's book is comprised of documents.
Of course, EQUUS also had characters who questioned themselves and the entire concept of what was "normal," so it worked from an enriched playing field.The focal point of this story is a report folder detailing an incident in which a soldier attacked an officer for a seemingly inoffensive question.
events.Unfortunately, we never meet any of the characters in the story.
Seventeen years before Martin skulked through the dreary suburbs of Pittsburgh, however, another unconventional vampire was given to the world, in the pages of Theodore Sturgeon's "Some of Your Blood." (Actually, an apology may be in order right now, as that last is a bit of a spoiler; the sanguinary habits of the central character of Sturgeon's novel are only revealed toward the story's conclusion.
Sturgeon tells his tale wonderfully, employing different voices (lunkheaded for George, wisecracking and clinical for the two shrinks) and revealing his central character's secrets slowly, like the gradual peeling of a very sick onion.
Some of Your Blood is about a guy who hits a superios officer during his army days, and gets sent to a psychiatric facility for observation.
His doctor, on the other hand, senses something deeply wrong with the prisoner's autobiography.The autobiography takes up the first seventy pages (short the beginning frame setting everything up) of the novella, and it alone is an amazing piece of writing, with a gentle wit about it and a naïve, but subtle, eagerness to please.
Once we are out of the autobiography, and into the doctor's notes and correspondence with his superior officer, things get even more interesting.
The book is written in fragments, semi-epistolary.
Horror fiction doesn't scare me as it did when I was a child--it doesn't make me look around and put the book down and hope everything is going to be okay.
Some of Your Blood isn't for the casual horror fan.
I understand why it isn't more widely read.
But if you like to think--if you like a book that makes you go back and reread some passages because of their sheer power, go for it.
I promise that you'll think about it after you're done reading.
I especially love the whole Arthur Hitchcock this going on at the beginning and end, where the author/narrator (whom you do not hear from the rest of the time) puts in that little nudge, amps it up a bit, draws you in and makes you think about what you just read.
The author must have had knowledge of psychiatric analysis to use it so skillfully to draw out a fuller picture of the main character.
That character, so horrific, so twisted, so deviant, yet so much like us...could anything be more horrific?
In fact I'm not really sure how to classify it but maybe I shouldn't worry about it.
There were elements of horror, there's a kind of non supernatural notion of a vampire here, and there are crimes but this doesn't start with the crime and then try to work out who did it, rather it starts with the perpetrator and then tries to find out what it is he did (and why).The narrative is presented as a psychiatric case file on which you, the reader, are snooping on, with mail correspondence, interview transcripts and essays attached.
Slow start but it gets better; try to stick with it. Though I liked the story, I'm not sure I'd include SOME OF YOUR BLOOD among the top 40 horror books of all time.
It has a certain fame because of the taboo nature of its subject material, which I will not reveal here—not for reasons of prudishness, but because if you ever wanted to read this novel yourself, knowing the subject is a horrible spoiler.
The rest of the book is presented as the contents of a psychologist’s manila file on a particular patient.
The latter makes up the largest section of the book, a first-person account of the subject’s life as told by him in the third-person that reads like William Faulknerian stream-of-conciousness.
Timeless, creepy tale masterfully told by Theodore Sturgeon. Not really a vampire story as such, as I had believed, but perhaps more what I would think of as a psychological thriller than horror or fantasy.
The copy I had from the wonderful Centipede Press (who also published The Deadly Percheron by John Franklin Bardin which I highly recommend) with an introduction by Steve Rasnic Tem and the excellent Sturgeon story "Bright Segment" (echoes of John Fowles here)I kept being reminded of the first time I read Shirley Jackson or Ursula K Leguin or John Crowley or Haruki Murakami or Philip K.
Dick or John Franklin Bardin or David Mitchell or Richard Brautigan (that list is looking a little thin diversity wise- I'd love any recommendations of any other writers who might fit in with this weird group who aren't white straight dudes).
A really in depth look into the mind of a sociopath, I was fascinated to get to the bottom of his warped sexual deviance, (view spoiler)[ which, in the opinion of the doctor, turned out to be an asexual deviance.
(hide spoiler)] I agree with this analysis wholeheartedly.Now, I know that some view this as a vampire tale.
And while I agree with that, I feel like it's a more realistic vampire, or a look into the mind of one of the many psychos out there who compulsively drink blood/cannibalize due to being mentally ill.But it's also an analysis of what being a vampire (in the most classical sense) really signifies.
This novel is stuck in the VAMPIRE fiction category, which it definitely is not. Very little horror involved, although (perhaps) for the 60's (when it was published), it might have been shocking. The reader guesses the result of the novel far in advance, and most of the text is mired psychiatric jargon regarding personality disorders and sociopathic behavior. The ending builds and answers most questions, but this feels like a sketch for a more 'planned' novel, than the actual finished novel that is published.
First of all, let me say that Theodore Sturgeon is in the upper echelon of all contemporary writers, science fiction or not.Second, allow me to make a bold statement: This is one of the best vampire novels of all time. (Although, to be fair, "vampire" is a bit of a misnomer here.)Third, it is one of those rare pieces of literature that continues to replay in your mind, as you rethink what you have read before in a completely different light.Just get a copy and read it, okay?
