https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311095.The_Unknown_Ajax
<-------Hugo has kind of a wicked sense of humor.The grandfather also decides to push a match between Hugo and Anthea, his 22 year old granddaughter (gotta keep the estate in the family!).
Anthea is completely horrified by this idea, but Hugo assures her that she's in no danger from him since he's unofficially engaged to another woman.One by one, the the members of the Darracott family begin to realize that Hugo is more than he seems to be.
This is a great comedy with just a little romance and a terribly funny but suspenseful climactic scene.
Richmond is also a more complex character than young men in her earlier works.The romance is well handled & the attraction between Hugo & Anthea is well handled - in fact the whole novel just sparkles with GH's witty dialogue.There are typos in this Arrow edition that I don't believe were in earlier books I read.
For example Hugo is at one stage called Matthew Darracott, the book talks of Aunt Anthea - should this have been Aunt Anne?
There's way too much dialect (something that I find tends to get in the way in some of her other works as well), and nothing much actually happens.
There's some smuggling potential, but that all happens off the stage.
There certainly isn't enough going on to justify the hero and heroine deciding they love each other.
They just decide it.
I really struggled to finish this because it was so boring, but pushed through mainly because I've enjoyed so many others by Heyer and couldn't bear to leave this one hanging out there.
Not recommended, even for Heyer fans.
An absolutely delightful comedy of errors!
This is a dysfunctional family who gets put to rights by a "weaver's brat" aka Hugo.
Big and dull witted looking, Hugo slowly takes them all by storm, even Anthea who was determined not to like him or have anything to do with him.
Vincent is Anthea's cousin and the hero of her brother Richmond's dreams, the sneer-iest character he takes instant dislike to Hugo's quiet way of pulling the rug out from under him and continually makes a nuisance of himself.
With smuggling, secret passages, Hugo and Anthea's sweet romance this book was the perfect cold weather read.
We were just getting to know everyone instead of having excitement.
Rating Clarification: 2.5 StarsI'm reet glad this Heyer is finished. Happen I didn't care for Hugo, the family Darracott or this story at all. Greatly wished this was one of Heyer's whodunnits, so that Lord Darracott could be murdered and Inspector Hemingway could arrive and solve the case, but alas this was just one sloooooooow and boring regency with little excitement, humor, romance or basically anything I've come to expect from Heyer.While it gets high ratings from most of my GR friends (and Heyer fans in general), it was pretty much a dud for me.Buddy read with Jeannette and Leslie
(view spoiler)[ I can understand when characters make a fool of some evil person, but to do that to a man who is only doing his job while being insulted and mocked by the Darracotts was a bit too much.
You just follow people around from scene to scene, you read how they insult Hugo or each other, then you get romance dropped on your head out of the blue (and it doesn't play any role in the book), and all that culminates in one long scene in the end where Hugo manages to deal with a family problem.
This is one of my favorite Georgette Heyer titles, and listening to the narration by Daniel Philpott makes it just perfect.
When Hugo arrives at the estate his grandfather shares with his widowed daughter-in-law and her two almost-grown children, he realizes that they are expecting to meet with an uneducated, uncouth common working man, so he decides to give them exactly what they expect.
This is one of Heyer's best comedies, though, so I highly recommend it to Heyer fans.As I listened, I kept thinking what a wonderful play this story would make, something that never occurred to me when reading the book.
The "new", not really new, but new to all but Lord Darracott coming to meet the family after the heir apparent's unexpected demise, Hugo wastes no time in playing the idiot to meet his family's expectations.Done for more amusement than spite, nonetheless, you see who figures out that the country bumpkin oaf isn't as slow-witted as they thought, and that the title of major was not given lightly.
But by the end, Hugo has won over the esteem of his relatives and with practically no interaction the hand of his cousin, Anthea.
This is my second review in AudioGals' Month of Audio Favourites, and I've given it an A+ for narration and B+ for content.I haven’t read The Unknown Ajax in years, but it was one of the first of Ms. Heyer’s novels I purchased in audio and I remember being utterly delighted by it, thinking that the story came to life in a way I hadn’t experienced when reading the book.
She was being so hard headed and stubborn and rejected Hugo right away.
And it was clear very early on in the story, that he was in love with her.
Frankly, I'd have given it a 1 star, had it not been so fun and hilarious to read, and had it been someone other than Heyer.
So I stuck with a 2-star rating.Heroine haters, stay clear of this book.
Unless you're looking for a giggle, than you've come to the right place.Hard-headed, stubborn heroine lovers, knock yourselves out.
The romance was a side story, an added benefit.)
The best moments were the interactions between Hugo and Anthea and watching Anthea gradually fall in love with him.Read 12/4/12: I like that this is one of Heyer's romances that's more fiction/mystery/adventure novel.
The scene near the end, where (view spoiler)[Richmond is shot and the Darracotts have to play out this elaborate hoax to protect him from the law, (hide spoiler)] is really funny and full of detail.
I'd say "more detailed than in the straight romances" but I think there are scenes from, say, Frederica that match it.
Hugo is a marvellous character, so self-assured that when he becomes the heir to a barony, he plays along (and with!) his new-found family's low opinion of him as yokel from Yorkshire.
His understated sense of humor appeals to me a lot.The secondary characters really help to bring this book to life.
Many of them start out to be stock Heyer characters--the fop, the arrogant and uncaring Corinthian, the aloof daughter of an Earl.
The minor characters have their own story arc, and in a way they're the actual heroes of the book because they're the ones who change and grow.Highly recommended.
Darracott's family have never met (or even heard) of Hugo, owing to Hugo's father being cast off for marrying a commoner.
But when a couple of unfortunate deaths leaves Hugo heir to the title, he is summoned to meet the family.Yorkshire born, Hugo is an imperturbable and sharp-minded man, who hides much of his competence behind a tendency to play the yokel, and his own affable nature.
" N.B. Lord Darracott basically despises everyone except Richmond; he tolerates Vincent; but by the end of the book, he grudgingly admires and is grateful to "that weaver's spawn."The players assembled at Darracott Place are: Lord Darracott; Mrs. Elvira Darracott, his daughter-in-law, and her two children, Anthea, daughter, and Richmond, son; Matthew, son of old Lord Darracott, his wife, Lady Aurelia Darracott, Vincent and Claud, their two sons, and the assorted servants, some of whom play important parts in the story, namely Chollacombe, the butler; Polyphant, Claud's valet (more about him later); and Crimplesham, Vincent's butler.Lord Darracott has notified the family that since his eldest son is dead, his heir is the offspring of "that weaver's daughter" being the issue of the disowned son; furthermore, he has sent for this person to meet the family.
Other characters in the family include Lord Darracott's son, Matthew, his wife and their two sons, Claude and Vincent.
The best character development would go to Claude, and the main drama plot centres around Richmond.
In fact, Heyer has even managed to create a very modern character in this novel: Matthew Darracott - a man who works and holds normal opinions and has a normal family interactions!The problem with the book is that it drags on for too long.
Not the best Heyer by any means, but I enjoyed the characters and their interactions even if the plot was much lacking.
Thus begins a delightful back-and-forth as Hugo tries to get in her good graces and Anthea tries to figure out what's real and what's a sham.
Hugo is absolutely saying whatever he thinks will please Anthea but she sees right through him and her exasperation is great and they can't help but love one another!!
I only wish there would have been a scene or two after Anthea finally accepts the poor bastard, as the book ends before Hugo can redeclare himself once she's accepted her feelings.
What's not to love about Georgette Heyer presenting a tall, strapping, mischeivous hero who inherits a noble title and estate and condescending relatives annoyed by his presence in their lives?
The family's supercilious attitude toward Major Darracott's background (noble father and common Yorkshire 'weaver's' daughter) brings out the huge hero's impish humor which expresses itself in a broad Yorkshire accent, seeming slowness of wits and gullibility they are only too happy to take at face value.
LOVED her!The story starts at a leisurely pace and builds as GH gives her mystery-writing muscles a work-out weaving a web around a young member of the family so bored he falls into evil ways.
Finally, Lord Daracott's plans include marrying his granddaughter, Anthea, off to her cousin Hugo to "keep him in the family." The outspoken Anthea is furious with her grandfather's plot and plans to keep this new cousin of hers at a distance.
A near brush with a family scandal brings to light Hugo's redeeming qualities .This is an odd book for Heyer.
I did not understand the references to Ajax, however, a quick search of one of the quotations in the novel brings up Shakespeare's Troilus and Cressida, a play which I have not read.
This isn't my favorite Heyer novel but it's worth a read for her fans.
And thus begins my quasi-impressionable wandering into the dark and sinister underbelly of regency romance. If you would oblige my most reverential presumption...IMHO “the Unknown Ajax” is more of a regency comedy especially in those hilarious scenes involving butlers’ catfight. There’s some cute tactically-placed banterings between the Major and Anthea but damn and balderdash! I want more!Vincent Darracott would make a perfect arrogant yet occasionally endearing leading man in a spin-off..I totally got a soft spot for him
You see, its hero, Hugo Darracott, is my dream guy, and every time I reread this book I drool all over him yet again.
The Darracotts are an ancient family living in a remote coastal corner of Sussex in a year shortly after the Battle of Waterloo.
He bursts on the family like a breath of fresh air, and soon he is figuring out all the dysfunction and the secrets.Unlike many of Heyer’s novels, this one never goes to London; basically all the action takes place within the walls of the Darracotts’ house.
Perhaps because of the rural estate setting, we see more of lower-class characters than some of her high-society books allow for.
The second son, Hugh, has been dead for years, but before he died, Hugh committed a misalliance: he married a Yorkshire weaver’s daughter and, as a consequence, was cut off from the family.
Unfortunately, his son, Hugo junior, the weaver’s brat, is now the heir of the old Lord Darracott.
Only one member of the family doubts Hugo’s slow wit right from the start: Anthea, Lord Darracott’s granddaughter and the daughter of his fourth son, long deceased.
And he always makes her laugh.As the story progresses, Anthea can’t help but like her new cousin: big, strong and utterly dependable.
No one has ever met Major Hugo Darracott; all they know is that he's the child of a misalliance and was in the army.
The whole Darracott family descends upon the ancestral home to meet him, and are horrified but not surprised to find that he's slow-talking, bovine-expressioned man with a broad Yorkshire accent and no valet.
I like a mischevious good hearted sort who isn't the best at dressing or driving horses, and to make Hugo even more precious, that's a rare breed to find in Heyer heroes.
My 28th Georgette HeyerEstranged heir of Darracott Place, Major Hugo Darracott is about to meet his estended family for the first time: his grandfather, Lord Darracott; his uncle, Matthew, a politician, his wife, Lady Aurelia and their sons Vincent and Claud; and his uncle Rupert's widow Elvira and her children Anthea and Richmond.Our hero has a sense of humor and when his aristocratic relatives think him to be an idiot, he pretends to be one.
Anthea doesn't fall for it, but this only serves to embolden the hero to persist in doubling down on his Yorkshire accent.
This was a pleasant book, but I need more than humor.
The eldest son of the autocratic, elderly Lord Darracott has died, and Lord Darracott must summon the new heir -- the unknown son of Darracott's rebellious second son, who married against his father's wishes and died years ago.
Hugo Darracott's entry into his new family is a challenge for everyone, but particularly his cousin Anthea, who Lord Darracott is determined will marry Hugo.
The family dynamics are nicely done, but the real page-turner is the subplot concerning Anthea's younger brother and the local smuggling trade, which develops into a remarkably suspenseful climax.
This time around I had some problems.The blurb gives a good idea of the basic story, so I won't try a re-cap.On the plus side--Hugo is a delight and has a wicked sense of humor.
I found myself skimming, just to keep the story moving along.I'm glad I re-read it, but I doubt I will re-read it again anytime soon.ETA: 5/1/2017--I guess 4 and a half years later qualifies as not 'anytime soon'.
The first part of the story is golden--the humor, the characters (even if most of them are 'types'), the set up, and so on.
The last quarter of the book just drags; the whole thing could have used a good editor.
Whenever I want a guaranteed great read, I turn to Georgette Heyer.
I've read this novel several times, and it's one of my favourites of hers.
I would give it 5 stars if the heroine were a bit less passive (unusual to have such a passive heroine in a Heyer novel.
I'm reading Faro's Daughter next, to remind myself how strong her female leads usually are.)If you've never read any Georgette Heyer, I envy you.
You're in for a great treat.
Extremely pleasant romance. Our hero, Hugo, is the unexpected heir to a title. The whole family is sure that he, the son of a second son and a weaver's daughter, will be an uneducated hick, and he does little to disabuse them of that notion. The interactions between all the family members are excellent here and the usual witty conversations draw you right into the story. The subplot involving smuggling is irresistable as well.
Gosh, what a grand book. In the usual way of Heyer Regencies the author has a firm thumb on the scales of the plot, so that all will work out. The final tangle of injured brothers and smugglers combating revenuers is unlikely but enchanting. This is perfect comfort reading. When real life just gets too ugly it is Heyer all the way.
This is such an enjoyable book. Hugo is a great character.
