https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/533016.Naoki_Urasawa_s_Monster_Volume_1
So when the hospital try to force him to operate on the town mayor, suffering from a stroke, rather than a little boy who's been shot in the head, he follows his heart and saves the life of little Johan Liebert, leaving the mayor to die at the hands of less-skilled doctors.This act puts Tenma in incredibly hot water, though.
His fiancée breaks off their engagement, he loses his position as chief of neurosurgery, and the hospital director now refuses to back him at all, following this 'irresponsible' act.Dr. Tenma refuses to be shaken, however, and after ranting to an unconscious Johan, he assumes it's the end of his career and just continues working day to day....That is, until the hospital director and two other doctors mysteriously die.
Captivating. Fast paced. Page turner.Dilemmas faced by an ethical Doctor, in a dirty political environment full of favouritism.Simplistic art and smooth flowing story. Only grudge is a cliffhanger ending.This was my first attempt at Manga and I'm already hooked by it \m/P.S.: Read it as a "twin" theme (thanks Sharadha). But the twins were only introduced here. Apparently they will capture centre stage in the next volume.
Wow! Really promising start to the series. The story is fantastic.
Many people disregard manga as a medium for story telling, particularly when dealing with adult topics such as much of Urasawa's work does.
However, Urasawa tells a story in a much more complex and rich method than many other fiction writers do, and this work is no exception.
This is a work that any fan of mystery and fiction can enjoy, and truly deserves to be read.
When Tenma suddenly finds himself implicated in a string of murders and realises what his decision brought about all those years ago, he goes on the run across Germany trying to track the killer down.
It's rare to find a manga series where the people actually look like people instead of perfect beautiful cartoons, and even the bit players in Urasawa's sprawling cast look genuine and interesting.An incredible piece of fiction, Monster should be worth a read by anyone; not just fans of mysteries or thrillers, but anyone with an interest in an understanding of the complexities of the human heart and soul.
Un doctor es obligado a dejar la operación de un niño para atender a un político. El niño atendido por otro muere y le queda una culpa enorme. Poco tiempo después se repite la situación y esta vez desoye las autoridades y salva al niño, el político muere. Aparte de traerle problemas con la justicia y el rencor del poder el niño salvado era un residente de un reformatorio experimental y resulta ser con los años un asesino de sangre fría, un ser de puro mal que el doctor busca rectificar culpándose por dejar vivo a semejante bestia.
All I have to say is, it's good that they don't count manga as YA (like they do with everything with a teen protagonist nowadays), or else the pearl-clutchers would have had a heart attack by now.
It shows that manga is a medium not a genre of it's own, and manga can just as easily handle a tense psychotic thriller story, with fabulous black and white lineart which captures the atmosphere in a realistic manner, with nary a unicorn or fairy wing in sight.Later - After a long and difficult search (the series is out of print, and everybody seems to be missing some books in the middle of the series as if a box fell of a ship at some point and was never replaced) I finally managed to purchase the rest of the series.The artwork remains flawless throughout the entire series, and the series is tense right up until the end.
No. It's on an entirely different world of it's own in which I have no experience writing about, but I will try.
Well it's one of those experience-to-understand things.
And it truly is a wondrous experience from the very first to last page.
It's scary, and not merely because of the basic plot and shadowy characters, but because it coerces us to question ourselves and the very existence of our humanity.Can one thing really make us decide against our human nature and completely change our world?
--- Monster 1-18 ---Plot: Rumit dan penggambaran situasinya benar-benar bikin bergidik.Gambar: OkPenokohan: Karakterisasi tokohnya menurutku matang.Serasa tidak cukup dengan komiknya, saya sampai melahap pula versi adaptasi anime-nya yang tidak kalah menakutkan batin.
Bahkan ending song-nya juga bikin merinding disko!
Monster menyajikan kisah mengenai protagonis utama kita sebagai seorang dokter bedah.
Rumit dan menakutkan seperti karya Urasawa sensei pada umumnya (ah, tapi saat itu saya cuma membaca Monster dan 20 Century Boy).
Pokoknya karya Urasawa sensei yang ini benar-benar jempolan, salah satu komik dengan plot hebat dan tak lekang oleh waktu.Mau dapat sensasi bonus?
Dengarkan ending song anime-nya ^^[10/10]
Edit: Here's a spoiler free review of the entire series! https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I really enjoyed the first volume of this new Manga series! It has such an interesting plot and I think the best part is the setting. I absolutely adore that the setting is hospitals and especially in Germany. I will say I found the mystery of this first volume predictable, but I can totally see this going in an amazing direction later in the series. I gave it 4 stars for a slow start, but I can definitely see this improving.
Creepy as hell. Great psychological thriller
Urasawa is a master-level spinner of tales, and while I consider 20th Century Boys to be his greatest series, Monster is perhaps easier to review.
He became a terrible monster.Monster is one of the few manga series that I've ever found to be truly creepy.
Soon after, he realizes that that little boy he saved is some kind of psychopathic killer whose crimes Tenma is framed for.
If you've never read a manga in your life, let this be the one you try first.
This feels more like a crime novel than a manga. It’s utterly engrossing and catches the reader from the start. Cannot wait to read more of the series!
He thinks he has found the perfect place.Not only is Dr. Tenma in favor with the director at the hospital, but he is engaged to his daughter Eva. What Kenzo soon realizes is that the Director is only in it for the money.
Dr. Tenma decides to go against the director's orders and saves a little boy's life instead of the mayor who was going to give a generous donation to the hospital.
This is the point when the manga goes from 'General Hospital' t.v. drama to a real crime mystery.I was so enraged with how Kenzo was treated at the beginning.
Review for the whole series.I seriously cannot understand why everyone loves this. There are awfully many plot holes (characters knowing things they shouldn't know without explanation etc.), many characters behave irrationally (the whole story is based around Tenma's constantly switching irrational choices!), its central plot elements are very silly ideas ((view spoiler)[ mind manipulation via picture books? Give me a break... (hide spoiler)]), it is very unfocused and long-winded constantly mix
There are awfully many plot holes (characters knowing things they shouldn't know without explanation etc.), many characters behave irrationally (the whole story is based around Tenma's constantly switching irrational choices!), its central plot elements are very silly ideas ((view spoiler)[ mind manipulation via picture books?
(hide spoiler)]), it is very unfocused and long-winded constantly mixing relevant and completely irrelevant things and putting the task to figure out which is which to the reader (something a good mystery series should never do imho), and the payoff isn't anything spectacular (I do not need to read 10000 pages of mostly unrelated events and chitchats to figure out people can have varying views of morality and human nature.

a great psychological thriller comic! the idea of the book is very fantastic. It's about a doctor (Dr.Tenma) who saved a little boy who turns out to be a serial killer when he grow up. The doctor feel responsible (for saving the boy's life) so he sacrifice his life trying to stop the boy. I cant stop reading it from the first book..very intense. If you like psychology, mysteries, thriller, u'll love this comic!
Urasawa's use of suspense is second to none. A complete and utter piece of genius, Monster gives proof not just to readers but to creators of manga and graphic novels that this medium is ready to be used and abused for much grander things than we've seen before. A complete masterwork that'll leave you aching for Viz to finish releasing the series.
Absolutely amazing, this is a definite must-read for...pretty much anyone. I'd describe it overall as an excellent mystery/thriller/adventure story, brilliantly fleshed out, but the characters are actually well-rounded and alive, not at all what I'm used to finding in manga or comics. A mature manga that deals so much with history and psychology and war.
Woah.Just... wow.Even though this isn't my type of story, I was in awe.The amount of detail... The suspense... It was almost too much for me.This was an impressive thriller.I'm not sure if I can handle more of this series. It's that nail-bitingly-on-edge of a book.Wow.
Mind blowing.
Urasawa manages to not only create suspense but also to maintain it throughout his novel, enriched with three-dimensional characters, socio-political dilemmas and extraordinarily expressive artwork."Not all lives are created equal."Needless to say, I found the whole price-of-life concept to be exceptionally fascinating.
I'm hoping to review it a volume at a time to relish the story better, since so few stories these days contain so many aspects of good writing in one amazing work of fiction.If you want to ask about Johan, well, no spoilers here.
This was an excellent piece!
I found it incredibly gripping and hard to put down (I think I read the entire thing in only an hour or two!) I loved Naoki Urasawa after reading PLUTO: Naoki Urasawa x Ozamu Tezuka, Band 001, and have been meaning to read this series for a long time.
I'm so glad I started, because it is excellent!
The mood is just perfect, and it builds up the ultimate moral and ethical dilemma: In a situation where you have to choose between two lives, which do you save?
And what happens if the person you saved grows up to become a monster?
The protagonist of Monster, Dr. Kenzo Tenma, has a lot in common with Jack Reacher, including the following:1. He has a moral code and he sticks to it;2. He is on a mission that must be completed at all cost;3. Ladies find him irresistible. This holy trifecta pretty much guarantees a stellar plot, and in an ideal parallel universe Reacher and Tenma would team up as a vigilante crime-fighting duo with enough chemistry to rival Cagney and Lacey. This is a firm recommendation.
This is fantastic! I absolutely loved it! A crime set in Germany starts off in 1986, then skips ahead to 1995. The twist ending was stunning even though I'd guessed it would turn out the way it did. Lots of medical situations and drama. This would make the perfect starter manga for someone who doesn't like fantasy. I cannot wait to read the next volume! I just have to decide whether to use the library or buy the delicious omnibus editions that are being published now. Hmmm...
Ummm okay that was freaking amazing and I'm so pissed my library doesn't have anymore copies so I definitely will be investing in purchasing this series. If you are into horror, suspense, and more I would definitely give this manga a try!! It was so good I don't even have the words to describe how much I enjoyed it.
The medical setting was a nice change and I enjoyed the way the mangaka addressed some ethical problems. This first volume had a good mysterious atmosphere but the outcome felt unrealistic (I don't think the murderer could have this knowledge for the first case) so I suppose that more is involved. Overall, a good and intriguing start.
قصة طبيب ياباني ماهر يعمل في ألمانيايصلهم في أحد الليالي طفل مصاب بطلق ناري في رأسهينقذ الطبيب ذاك الطفل، لكنه لم يكن يعلم أنه قد ارتكب أكبر غلطة في حياته!ومنذ ذلك اليوم والوحش يكبر! من هو يوهان؟وما هي التجربة التي خضع لها أولئك الأطفال؟السجن العجيب 511 كيندرهايمعمل درامي ونفسي مرعبأنتج منه أنمي في 74 حلقةقراءة ومشاهدة ممتعة للجميع
This is actually a reread, but I don't remember when I first read it – probably in 2007 or 2008. This series is one of the few mangas I kept around from my anime/manga-obsession days. I decided to start re-reading it on a whim today!An all-around great series. Intricate plot with lots of twists and turns and unexpected happenings.
