https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7977973-i-too-had-a-love-story
The book, they say, is a true love tale, written by Ravinder out of the despair of losing his girlfriend.
He goes on repeating the phrase '...because i am madly in love with Khushi' over and over again, as if he thinks that a reader might actually not understand it.
Another irritating thing that the writer does is to always quote Khushi as 'Khushi- the one i love'.
The writer has written the book with an eye on the Bollywood.
The characters in the story are just too ideal and perfect that you can actually spot them in any Yash Raj Movie.
Thank u 4 standing by her.” ( D entire conversation lasts almost a page) Dat was d final blow 4 me.It was really easy 2 hate d buk after dat.If dis is his real life luv story & d fact dat he dedicated almost a page 2 how a nurse tells him how gud a person he is, den dat tells a lot about d author.
Read d book, so dat u know ver ur standards r.
If dis is d kind of book dat bcums a national bestseller, den I shud assume d whole nation has gone nuts!
The story is about the author, Ravi who meets a girl in an internet dating website and falls in love with her.
The story would have been better if there were many events happening simultaneously or if the author didn't concentrate only about his love life.
It was a long time ago since I read this book and I'm surprised that the first phrase that came to my mind was "the food was tasty".The author's narrative skills were very poor and that is why sleep was inevitable.
If you love the story and not the words that describe it then, this book would be perfect.
I will give this one a five star without being generous. These light-hearted reads had been in the trend in the book sales. And I picked on up before a tiresome overnight journey.The story is indeed good and I will reserve my rating explanation for just the ending. It had me captured and had my attention!Brisking and trotting the tale at his will, Ravinder Singh did a good sound job throwing the ending in the face - right out of the blue. “She died. I survived. Because I survived, I die everyday
I will give this one a five star without being generous.
These light-hearted reads had been in the trend in the book sales.
And I picked on up before a tiresome overnight journey.The story is indeed good and I will reserve my rating explanation for just the ending.
It had me captured and had my attention!Brisking and trotting the tale at his will, Ravinder Singh did a good sound job throwing the ending in the face - right out of the blue.
I survived.
Because I survived, I die everyday.” 
5 Stars
for the way this book made me feel.
i read this book a year back or so.
a few of my friends actually cried reading this( all of them who did being girls), so i was forced and yeah also out of curiosity i decided to read this book.
it being a true story, i feel sad for this guy.
i dont even know how this guy actually even got it published!!
and if its about the love, i couldnt feel any love that pulled me into the story of the book.
there're are better books by other indian author's and i dont mean chetan bhagat here.
A beautiful story. This book is a simple yet capturing story of Ravin and Khushi.None of the lavish or extravagant stuff. Just a simple story but while reading the book you will realise that author has put his heart and soul in the book.You will remember the book and specially Ravin for sure, for his simplicity,for story,for the emotions he felt for Khushi, for Khushi. If you are in love or are in waiting for your prince/princess you will connect to the story. A book by a person in love - summarises the book.
English is bad, editing is worse, but the fact that the author wants to narrate the story 'as is', makes you leave aside all judgement and by the time the book ends, you are but touched.
A girl can be more than 'beautiful' and readers know all-too-well how much you love her, they do not need reminding twice every page.
He experiences the most significant incident in his life - the coming and going of a girl - and he decides to share this experience with others in all its earnestness.
P.S. The innocence and motivation behind the book reminds me of another such work, 'Anything for you, Ma'am'.
the story is touching but i didn't like the narrative nature of storytelling......it was more informative than literary.
I fail to understand how a guy can fall in love with a girl whom he hasnt even met.
The repetitive use of shona, love you, and continuous conversations seem more like addiction than love.
The author has made references where he has met the girls family personally while there is not a single instance where the guy's family has even seen the girl.
Hence it is hard to believe that such parents exist in our society that go ahead with their son's engagement without seeing the girl.This book deserves nothing more than 2 stars.
Book is full of immature love.
Love stories with a tragic end are beautiful in their own peculair way.Some love stories never die.
They remain for generations yet to come to read them again...this is one such story....Though I am not the kind who'd read romantic novels on a lazy Sunday morning just to pass time but I knew this one had something special about it even before I started reading it.Boy was the story touching!!..?
To know it is a true story was even more touching and I could feel the pain the author must have gone through, through his words.
Yet another cliché love story with a terrible narrative. One day I made her cry, she cried and then seeing her crying I cried. The sky cried.Did I mention childish and repetitive?I am still asking myself why I picked it up!!
Even I too had a love story....so I picked the book.
Will you still call this a love marriage?And what if on the engagement day while you pull the ring out from your pocket, you realize what you planned was just a dream which never comes true…?How would you react when a beautiful person comes into your life, becomes your most precious possession and then one day goes away from you…forever?Not all love stories are meant to have a perfect ending.
Apart from reading and writing, the author has a keen interest in working out in the gym.Occasionally, he loves playing snooker; his favorite game.

Lame, predictable, lousy and very filmy. Not sure if this is a true story, but it is truly inspired by Chetan Bhagat's writing. I wonder how he managed to write a sequel for such a lame plot! In all, a total waste of time.
Lovely story! The fact that this is a true story and written in pain and sorrow, you definitely can understand what the author has gone through. This seemed more like a story to let his emotions out than for us to sit and talk about it.
I heard my friend warning me to read it carefully as it might make me cry.
Yes, I am in love and its complicated.
With all the high expectations I started exploring the book.
I was disappointed.
It is a pure juvenile writing.
The author has killed all the emotions.
The major hit for the sales could be coz of the story which is highly predictable.The novel is full of passive voices.
There was not even meager emotional turmoil in me due to this book.
Tats it.Not a worthy read if you looking for nice literature.
Hi everyone,i like to read love stories a lot.
so i purchased it & yes from the starting itself it a very different & romantic kind of love story.
i have always read love stories which have a happy ending, but this one was different.i always wish that if the story have been with a happy ending it would have been similar to other books, but yes the author 'Ravinder singh' differentiates himself from this kind of ending.it is one of the most heart touching love stories ever i read & my many many thanks to Ravinder Singh for writting such a heart touching story which would show the other side of the life too.
The kernel of the story is pretty appealing with attributes like a foreword written by N.R. Narayana Murthy (ex-CEO and co-founder of Infosys) and the author being an MBA from a leading B-school in India.
But, and there is a big BUT here, the writing style did not attract me at all.
I confess I’m not a big fan of the recent ‘Indianized’ style of writing which most authors nowadays attempt to.
I did not like reading whole sentences and conversations in Hindi where the is novel supposedly written in English.
This might just seem offensive but as everyone has been entitled some different frames of reference,so do the reviews differ.
I read the book as soon as one of my friends suggested me, and oh my god.
Well, honestly I'd call that day a wasted one - just another love story with another predictable plot and a very lovey-dovey narration.
I do love the genre romance, yes I  LOVE  it!
I wish I never read this one - never.
Opinions may differ,i know, but make a choice before reading it - Think about it twice, or  thrice  maybe!
its easy reading book, the story is of Ravin and Khushi, who gets connected through a matrimony site.and plans their life together, but khushi meets with an accident and dies.. readers feels for the Ravin because he was serious for the relationship, its a flat story, no ups and down, no thrills and suspense created, i would give 2 star, though i believe many readers can relate with the story and their opinion could be more favourable to this book..
keeping that in mind, the book is gud and touching.
the forced humour is also a turn off at a few places.while reading it, almost every person who has been/is in love will relate to the book, cry over it and the book will find a place in their heart.
if u sit down and think rationally, a few evident loop holes will definitely surface.i am not here to criticise Indian authors bcoz its not going to fetch me a prize.
in my opinion, it is a gud thing the author shared his story with us but it wasnt that exciting.
good plot, but very very very bad writing. i found myself skipping lines in order to get over with the overly detailed stuff. She was beautiful, we get it. You are in love with her, we get it. Yours is a "unique" story, we get that too. Just get over it already, and move ahead. not at all well written and dragged along. should've hired a ghost writer to write it down. disappointed.
The author tells his love story through this book.
The author tells how he met the girl of her dreams and how their love bloomed.
Having said that,I must add that if you are looking for a literary piece than it's not one.
It is indeed a touching love story and it did struck a chord in my heart.It is the kind of book I would prefer when I am in a mood for a light read.The author has put his heart and soul in writing this book.It will stay in your mind long after you have read it.
Written using extremely simplistic language with stilted and repetitive dialogues that made the story sound at times like a bad play, and at others like a last-ditch attempt infomercial to sell a product that no one wants to buy. Did not hold my attention long enough to make me want to continue beyond the first few pages.
Though I appreciate the intent and emotions behind Ravinder's story and the amount of personal courage and desperate longing in writing this, I just can't forgive the bad writing from a obviously first-time writer. While the editors may have decided to let the book follow the natural flow of the author, there's a reason they have a job and a role in the industry.
i swear, i was emotionally blackmailed to read this book -_-1 star for the story and content.another 1 for the efforts author took to publish and market it to a sensational hit ( total 2 stars for book)last 1 star for the person who demanded me to read it. -_-
To be honest, I havent read books written by Indian authors.
This was my first experience and really i didnt know what to expect.
A friend of mine who loved this book lent it to me and i thought i could give it a try.
I dont regret my decision because i actually liked this book.
It was a simple love story with a tragic ending..well we all knew how the story was going to end like that since the title doesnt do much to hide that fact.
And yes, I cried during the last moments.(what?
It saddens me what passes for literature these days... Ravinder Singh is in need of a thesaurus, a dictionary, and all the Wren and Martin grammar books in the world. Jesus Christ, this is utter crap.
I read a few reviews of this book which included criticism for the simplistic language and the pretty slow narrative, but considering the fact that this is a true story and one written in pain and sorrow, you definitely can understand what the author has gone through.When an author writes a story based on his own life, it isn't too fair to expect fast narratives and thrilling plots.
This seemed more like a story to let his emotions out than for us to sit and talk about it.Better understood if you've loved someone truly.
Even otherwise, it was a good read, a little emotional in the end.Simple, neat, yet sad.
Could any book ever get worse than this, i'm still wondering why so many people love it. This book is an insult to any reader. I'm giving up on these Chetan Bhagat type of writing.
