https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252124.The_Man_Who_Ate_Everything
if he wants to explore local-food movements, he just jets out to the west coast and eats at the top ten or so restaurants and gorges.
when i eat an entire box of girl scout cookies, it is also for science.he is my new favorite food-writer.
expect fruitcakes in the mail come holiday time next year.if you have any interest whatsoever in food, apart from using it as fuel to sustain your machine-like body, i suggest you take a look at this book, and prepare to droolnow i am going to get my hands on his follow-up and see how long that one takes me to get through!
Since I'm into cooking and, to a lesser extent, food writing, this book had been recommended to me several times over the last few years.
For instance, in search of the perfect water, he has Vogue pick up the check for his water tab and orders hundreds of varieties of bottled water before finally visiting the store where they are sold.
Or when he bakes bread, he flies off to Paris to visit his friend for some pointers, then to another friend's place Stateside who owns a ridiculously expensive and rare oven.
Anyway, I spent elementary school reading Steingarten articles for the mag, where he is still the food columnist.
My conclusion for this book is that he is probably best in small doses.
But, if you've never read any of his stuff before, I'd check this out in one-essay-at-a-time stints.
And I think he's at his best when he convincingly argues that pretty much every dietitian and nutritionist ever wants to suck all the fun out of eating (he is side-splitting when talking about the toxic potential of salads), and champions instead for everything in moderation and that pleasure in the preparation and consumption of food is a critical part of true health.
He can be witty and smart enough at times, and I liked it for a while, and maybe it's just the bar-study grumpiness talking, but I really resent that large chunks of this read like a "dieting" memoir, and that if it were written by a woman it would not be considered some kind of clever high-mindedness, but rather just some woman ranting about weighing herself four times a day.
But also he apparently just wrote a somewhat skeevy and totally fawning article about Gwyneth Paltrow that contributes to my finding him pretty annoying.
My favorite part is when he forces himself to eat all the foods that he grew up hating to get over his aversions.
Steingarten married a Utah girl from an LDS family and he delights is weaving Utah into his food articles for Vogue magazine.
It made me smile to read the later chapters which salute the home cook and house wife and the wisdom of some cooking traditions over science and fads.
(Usually science corroborates the traditional cooking methods once he digs deeper...but so many food fads have snuck into our brains that we treat them as fact)He's a nut for research and experimentation.
And I love nuts.
Steingarten's compilation of essays on a wide variety of food-related subjects written in the late 80s and 90s seems like it might be an interesting read for someone who likes food and cooking.
HOWEVER, the man's ego (astronomical, of untold proportions, seriously it can be seen from three planets over) is a bit of a turn off.
Add to that the fact that some of the essays are dated, especially the ones about nutrition (do you know how much has changed in the debate about weight loss, chocolate, butter, and red wine since this was published in the mid 90s?) and it was a bit of a disappointment.
But yes, Jeffrey Steingarten, once the monthly food correspondent for Vogue, does seem to have pretty much eaten the best (and the worst) of most of the highly acclaimed cuisines, at least as far as the Western world is concerned.
In this interesting and very eclectic collection of essays on food, Steingarten discusses just about everything related to food, from the sad decline of French haute cuisine to the best way to make everything from French fries to American pies (specifically, fruit pies) to the perfect mashed potatoes.
I'd say that this deserves a 3.5 star rating, but I really like food writing. Some of these essays, particularly the introduction, were really fabulous. Rather more of them I wish I'd skipped (I read through the entire thing cover to cover, though I didn't cook any of the recipes). I picked it up looking for something that I could read on my morning train, so I enjoyed the format.
It’s a life in which I would read books like this, slowly, with particular pleasure, laughing out loud at regular intervals.
It’s enough to read about Jeffrey Steingarten’s noble culinary inventiveness, the people he meets, the morsels he tastes, the trips in taxis to find ingredients, the joyous errors, the fabulous achievements, the wonderful life of a professional food writer.Good cookery books tend to make me salivate, which I imagine is a good sign.
(Said partner is still waiting for dinner to appear, while the dinner-maker has been reading a food book instead.) But I’m going to leave you with the author’s wife’s last word.
I am not a foodie, I don’t watch cooking shows and only rarely read Vogue; I had no idea who Jeffrey Steingarten was when this book was loaned to me.
Some sections drag when he gets bogged down in the scientific details of a recipe or technique--although I suspect these may be fascinating to other readers --and by the time I got three quarters of the way through the book, I began to find him a bit tiresome.
I don’t recommend plowing through the book at once, cover-to-cover, but each essay is a fun and educational read on its own.
the mere fact that I've been reading it for more than 6 months should be proof of that!The book blurb - as well as the title itself - led me to believe that it would be a collection of essays about Jeffrey Steingarten eating weird things.
I thought that sounded interesting, so when the library didn't have the book, I went out and bought it, even though I'd thought his other essay collection only so-so.
The Man Who Ate Everything by Jeffrey Steingarten is a nonfiction book that focuses on Steingarten’s many food experiments.
I chose this book because I have a strong interest in food and science.
Also the book was similar to a test kitchen type of book, which I liked.
Steingarten had many memorable parts in his book such as his wife’s crazy reactions to his food experiments.
Fry and you fry alone." Another thing I liked about this book was how Steingarten approached and executed his experiments and tests.
I would recommend this book to those who are interested in food science or like books on food experiments.
Though I love food writing, I sometimes shy away from it for fear that it will be lofty, pretentious, or too envy-inducing to be enjoyable. That is not the case here. Jeffrey Steingarten, a food critic for Vogue, sets out on culinary adventures and misadventures so offbeat and engrossing, it's impossible not to laugh and learn and salivate along the way. His approach is humble and investigative, relatable, and so funny. It's everything I love: informative writing, good food, and a lot of laughs.
It is a collection of essays about food, usually followed with recipes. This book is more for the gourmand, not the average reader. It dives deep into the history of certain foods and their delicious attributes, like bread, french fries, Wagyu beef, and ice cream. It even goes deep into the taste of salt and water. The author's humor can be a little sarcastic and irreverent at times, probably not for everyone.
i liked this book better than the 3 stars i gave it, but i wouldn't say it was a 4 star book. every chapter was enjoyable. the author's wit and love for food are charming. the problem is that it's difficult to read straight through, as it's a collection of his writing from over a period of years, so topics and tone vary widely. he includes a lot of recipes that i intend to try and if the chapter on kyoto cuisine doesn't make you want to go to japan, then nothing will.
A surprisingly hefty read, The man who ate everything is a collection of articles that cover a range of topics from the perfect pie crust, american style BBQ, bread baking and the exquisite nature of Kyoto kaiseki. A few of the articles go into excruciating scientific detail while others make me laugh at the pseudo science (the average mass of a standard shake of salt lol). Fascinating read for lovers of food, but by no means a quick read.
This book is great for all those who find themselves thinking about food during their idle hours. It also happens to be really funny! I often compare Steingarten to a food-obsessed version of Hunter S. Thompson. Pehaps no one has contemplated food in such depth, humor, and sometimes down-right obesessiveness as Jeffrey Steingarten.
Excellent series of essays (many of them previously published) on food topics ranging from potatoes to Sicilian gelato to American turkey. Steingarten blends history, recipe experimentation, and wry humor to get get the reader really excited about food, perhaps even to the point of trying out food experiments in the same maniacal manner that Steingarten does!
Unfortunately most of the essays in this book were from the early nineties. I did enjoy some of the travel pieces, but also nothing original there - how many times can one go truffle hunting in Italy?
i thought this would be a novel, and it turns out to be a recipe book with a story/article around each category of recipes. it is good as a cookbook, but not as a story with character development or plot arc.
actually I hate the word foodie. but seriously, this book makes food really interesting
More of a 3.8 really but I kind of adored this because Steingarten gets so nerdy in his search for the perfect flour for natural yeast bread...it's adorable. Definitely one for food addicts.
I'm not sure what I was expecting (having never read Steingarten previously), but it certainly wasn't this witty, entertaining, or well-researched. Really enjoyable.
Good food reading
Some chapters were very interesting, others very dull to slog through. Many parts are extremely dated (they were written in the 90s) and just not relevant to today. Overall, a completely mixed bag.
and then set it aside for literal years until returning to it this past Christmas and finally completing it, I went with a kind of "meh" rating.I think it's just the fact that the author frequently comes across as kind of arrogant about food, and then he has all this money to blow on experimenting with food and traveling to foreign countries to write about food, etc.
Especially in the chapters I read today, where Steingarten takes himself less seriously and pokes fun at himself - how he wanted to impress Marion Cunningham, who stresses simplicity, with his perfect pie crust and then reveal that it took some complicated procedure.
I have a fondness for food memoirs, and one in particular for acerbic Vogue magazine writer, Jeffrey Steingarten.
He is more than willing to comb New York and Paris (and parts beyond) for a new ingredient or flavor.
If there is a flaw in this book it's his reviews of nutrition science; reminding us that the latest developments from twenty-five years ago have been revised and rejected a half dozen times since.
Perhaps food writers need to focus on the flavor and ingredients and allow the nutritionists to do their thing elsewhere.
But it’s nice to see that food and cooking stays just as engrossing and relevant over time, and thanks to this book I have pro tips for my future food tours of Italy, France, and Japan, tried and tested recipes for fruitcake, the world’s best French fries, apple pie, gelato, and I know what Vongole are so I bought some to keep in my pantry in case I ever find an excuse to use them.
I’m glad I have the hard-cover copy so I can keep Steingarten in my kitchen to continue testing him for the next 2 years.
I used to subscribe to Vogue just so I wouldn't miss one of this guy's columns.
Olestra?) but nobody writes about food with more appreciation, excitement and, well, love.
I wonder whether he was able to travel everywhere and eat everything all on Vogue's tab or if he had to use his own money.
Travels all over Alsace to discover the essential choucroute.
He seems to know everybody in the food world and he doesn't hesitate to ask them all for guidance.
Ruhlman and Pollan have their place but if you want really tasty food writing, this is it.
Mr. Steingarten's humor does not easily translate via written word at times, so his months of attempts to make bread was a bit laborious to read although understandable.
His travels to find the best of rarely made cultural foods in Europe grated with blatant overtones of privilege, money, and first-world problems (perhaps more obvious as I was the rural part of a developing country while reading the first 350 pages).
That being said, this book was published over 2 decades ago so perhaps I would have seen things in a different light at that time.
