https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383221.The_Tiger_in_the_Smoke
Tiger boasts, however, a nugget of theological drama which, if it had been integrated into the fabric of the novel more thoroughly, might have raised it into the same class as Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment.
The killer, Jack Havoc (this is not a spoiler), follows what he calls "the science of luck" which brings him nothing but good fortune if only he will be disciplined enough never to be "soft" (i.e., compassionate or kind).
The nugget to which I refer is his encounter with a clergyman who explains what his science of luck really is.
It says it is an Albert Campion mystery, but he was pretty nonexistent for the whole book.
For a book of this size, there certainly were an awful lot of people to meet.
Having never read a book by this author, I did wonder if I would have benefitted from reading earlier works.
What I did like about the book was the atmosphere the author created.
Everything seems affected by this damn fog.The author spends more time on the criminal element of the book than the detectives and people being affected.
But there are lots of people who raved about this book, so maybe it just wasn't for me.
The man she glimpses across the fog bound platform of a station is certainly not her husband, but the mystery deepens after he is questioned and released.What follows is an extremely atmospheric mystery; set in a post-war, weary London in a middle of a pea souper fog.
A convict called Jack Havoc has escaped from prison – he is hunting a “treasure”, while Luke and Campion search for him in the “Smoke,” which is the fog bound city of London.
If you are interested in London shortly after the war, then this novel gives you a great view of the City at that time and is worth reading just for the historical aspect of the book.
Margery Allingham discloses a mystery right from page two when Meg and her fiance are presented with a dilemma.
But despite all reason she was trembling."A hidden treasure, a cottage in France, a clever kidnapping, a bewildered-always-one-step-behind police force, and the London fog all work together in this incredibly fast-paced, suspenseful novel.The author cleverly uses the weather (that London fog!) to add atmosphere to the story:"This morning the fog was thicker than ever.
The author weaves together several themes but the one that seemed most prominent as I read this book was the age-old (as long as time itself!) dilemma of good and evil.
There is a moving and atmospheric scene when his desire to help this troubled young man overcomes his fear of danger, leading to interesting and realistic consequences.Other than the murderer, the main characters are amateur (I think) investigator Albert Campion, Allingham’s most well-known creation; a clever and resourceful police detective named Charlie Luke (who often steals the scenes); and Geoffrey Levett, a former army officer, cool customer and thoroughly good egg.
It is refreshing to read a crime novel in which the detective is not a bumbling idiot easily bettered by the private dick but actually experienced, intelligent and good at his job.The story unfolds slowly and although we are given clues along the way it is difficult at first to figure out any motive for what is happening.
Allingham does a lot of dwelling with the characters' personalities and their behaviour and whatnot, but the actual crime solving is left on the sidelines, whereas psychological ponderings take up a lot of space.I ended up feeling conflicted about the whole book, because Allingham is wonderful at describing London and the effect of the smog.
On the other hand, Campion didn't seem to have a purpose in the story, so he could have been left out entirely without it affecting in any way to anything.However, despite the poor pacing etc., the gloomy atmosphere and the fascinating ending won me over, so I'll continue with the series.
Sometime in the 1980s my local paper, the San Francisco Chronicle, published the favorite mysteries of Dilys Winn, editor of Murder Ink and Murderess Ink, which are apparently companion volumes for fans.I used to clip the reviews of appealing new books with the intent of getting around to them — a pre-internet version of the To Be Read shelf.
If you want to take a look at the list, I turned it into one of Goodread's Listopias here.Anyway, this was one of the favorites listed on that faded newspaper clipping.
It's probably been twenty years since I read any Agatha Christie, but based on vague recollections, I think I like this better.
For being written in 1952, I think The Tiger in the Smoke holds up pretty well.
It's not a *great* mystery/thriller, but it was an amusing enough diversion.
Allingham isn't Christie, but there is plenty of intrigue - possibly not-dead husbands, new engagements, kidnapping, and plenty of murders and attempted murders.
I'd recommend it for a rainy or snowy afternoon.
I listened to the audiobook read by David Thorpe and initially wasn't sure I liked him, but he grew on me.
He has quite the range of voices, accents, and intonations to keep a wide cast of characters straight, although some are a bit over the top.
"The Smoke" is fogbound post-WWII London. "The Tiger" is the truly evil Jack Havoc, who has escaped from prison by feigning mental illness to get sent to a psychiatrist, whom he fools and then murders. In his quest to get hold of a priceless hidden treasure, he doesn't care how many people he kills. This thriller, one of my favorites, is notable for its graphic contrast of good, personified in the saintly Canon Avril (protagonist Albert Campion's uncle), and evil, personified in Havoc. There's also a most entertaining Dickensian cast of cockney characters. It's well worth reading and rereading.
Un gran misterio de la Edad Dorada del Crimen.El estilo, cargado de dilemas morales e implicaciones teológicas, puede no sobrevivir el caer en lo pasé.
Esto es evidente en algunos puntos del estilo de Allingham que para mí resultaron hasta confusos.
Añadamos a eso el cockney, que a alguien no nativo del Reino Unido debe ser bastante complicado de entender, y buena parte del libro tiene baches que generan escollos insalvables para un lector contemporáneo.
Lo recomiendo ampliamente.Éste es el misterio favorito de JK Rowling y la influencia de Allingham se nota bastante en el desarrollo correspondiente de las novelas de Cormoran Strike.
I think Campion is sort of unique in that he doesn't seem to play a major role in the stories.
He is always around and involved, helping the police and investigating, but at the same time, the other characters; such as the police, the villains, secondary characters, etc also play important roles.
She has moved on and is engaged to a new man, when she begins getting pictures of her previous husband, which seem to indicate he might still be alive.
From this interesting beginning, we find ourselves involved trying to solve the crimes of a serial murderer (who may or may not be related to the previous case), treasure from the war, etc.
I have read some of Allingham's mysteries in the past and liked them, but this title disappointed or at least puzzled me.
The fog serves as a character in itself and the weather descriptions are vivid if a bit over the top, imho.
The style of writing is very odd, using descriptions and metaphors that just don't work or make sense to me.
The book gets excellent reviews, referred to as one of the author's best works, so I think my reaction was purely personal and readers of classic English mysteries might like it if florid prose doesn't bother them.
Yes, there’s the basic structure that the reader expects, but beyond that the author can use his or hers ‘hunt the murderer’ yarn to tackle anything they damn well like.Take this interesting, if very flawed, Albert Campian novel.
People who used to have money don’t any more, respectable persons are letting themselves down, things aren’t what they were promised to be and all is too vulnerable to the forces of disorder.Jack Havoc – the tiger of the title – is an incredibly interesting post-war British character: a man who has tasted violence during the war, and is now unable to stop his worst impulses.
Allingham, Margery. THE TIGER IN THE SMOKE. (1952). ***. Allingham’s hero, Albert Campion, appears in this novel, but he doesn’t have a whole lot to do. This story, supposedly one of the author’s favorites in the series, is more like a young boy’s adventure book, full of nasty thieves and freaks who have no compunction about murdering whoever gets in their way. The plot concerns a young woman who is engaged to be married. She was married before, but her husband was reported missing and presumed
The plot concerns a young woman who is engaged to be married.
She suddenly begins receiving photos in the mail that supposedly show her former husband in and around London.
The young woman engages the help of Campion and his wife – who, cleverly, bring in the London police.
When a message is received for the young woman to meet her former husband at a train station, Campion and the police swoop down on him and learn that he is a lowlife appropriately attired and disguised to look like her missing husband.
Albert Campion is asked to get involved with a strange case in the middle of a very bad London fog.
Many of the interactions between the characters have much more depth than can usually be expected from crime novels.Margery Allingham was writing when English detective fiction was in its heyday – the Golden Age of crime fiction – and the story has stood the test of time.
If you like your crime fiction in the classic mould then try Margery Allingham’s Campion stories.
2 1/2 starsWhen Meg Elginbrodde receives photos of her late husband Martin, presumed dead in WW2, she is shocked - not in the least because she is to marry Geoffrey Levett in a few days.
But what starts out relatively harmless turns into a dangerous game of life and death very soon - and corpses begin to pile up.I seem to be in the absolute minority here, but this didn't work for me.
For me, it wasn't meant to be.
Really great classic mystery. Something about it reminds me of and C.S. Lewis's That Hideous Strength and the fiction of Charles Wallace. It's set after the close of WWII. A young war widow is engaged to be married again, and suddenly begins receiving photos that seem to indicate her first husband is still alive. An intricate mystery follows, with some great characters,suspenseful plotting, and graceful writing.
Suspense novel, almost the brightest, cheeriest suspense novel you'll ever read. JK Rowling called it her favorite crime novel--looking back on the plot, it's easy to see similarities to the Harry Potter books. Reading it, I definitely kept wondering what was going on and why I should care, but looking back just an excellently put together novel. I can't give it five stars, though--it pleased me more in retrospect than the actual reading.
Αν αγαπάτε Agatha Cristie και Λονδίνο, τότε θα σας ενθουσιάσει η Margery Allingham με το εξαίσια ζοφερό και ομιχλώδες λονδρέζικο τοπίο της!
However, for me, Havoc was not as terrifying as the band of misfits and damaged return soldiers, led by the albino known as Tiddy Doll, who stumble through the fog, begging for coins and playing discordant music.
It reminded me very much of Graham Greene's Brighton Rock, and the terrifying character Pinkie.This book is so much more than a crime novel: it is a study in good versus evil, and what war does to men and for that matter, to a city's population.
Astonishingly beautiful prose, but not really my thing. I've always meant to read Allingham, as those in crime fiction circles speak very highly of her, and now I see why. Her writing is majestic in its beauty, her characters filled with an admittedly strange and philosophical, but nevertheless palpable inner life, and her sense of irony delightful. I'd be lying if I said I enjoyed the book overly, since it's a kind of British action noir that is not my scene (I've never been into the Hammett/James schools of crime fiction) but one can't deny the richness of the words.
How refreshing, a literary thriller in which the detective is *not* center stage! The fog in Allingham's London is virtually its own character, inserting itself into the story in ways that turn the plot and shape the mood. Allingham's real skill is creating a fully realized world in which no one is a literary stereotype and thus the reader cannot predict at any given moment who will do what next. I loved this book unexpectedly.
Destacaría de la novela la atmósfera que crea la autora, la sofocante niebla londinense parecía envolverme mientras leía. También me pareció bastante desasosegante, toda la policía tras un asesino que no logran capturar, con algunos capítulos que lograron ponerme muy nerviosa. Mi problema, haber pensado que era una novela detectivesca con giros espectaculares en la trama, cuando realmente se trataba de un thriller donde las cartas se muestran bastante pronto. Me ha gustado mucho como escribe la autora y me gustaría probar con otras novelas suyas.
Ωραιο αστυνομικό, αγγλικής σχολής αλλα οχι τοσο κλασικό, πιο πολυ ψυχολογικό.
They were as one in declaring this novel to be one of their favorites.I'd read a couple of the Albert Campion novels way back when, didn't like them much and moved on, but if Francine and Barbara say it it must be so, I picked up a copy.London, 1950.
Of one of the minor characters Allingham writes, "Her voice was gentle, placatory, and never-ending." At one point Levett says, "Values are so relative...Hitler wanted the modern world.
Well, I mean to say, Campion, look at the modern world!" Francine and Barbara recommended the next two books in the Campion series, too, The Beckoning Lady, which I've already started, and Hide My Eyes, which is on my to-read shelf.
It was mentioned by Chris Fowler in his column so I felt it was time.At the end of any war there are loose ends all over the place, stories without endings, and people lost from their proper places.
Jack Havok is pure evil, killing because it is the sure way to get where he wants to go.
There are some in between people, usually described as silly, childish, or foolish, not really aware of what is happening.
The good men are all bluff and brave and ready to protect their families - it's all so black and white in ways that life isn't really.
It's not, as I expected, a mystery at all, but a thriller, the chase of a deadly criminal through the foggy streets of post-war London and not a few coincidences.The fog-as-character was a bit forced, but that's possibly just because it is completely outside my frame of reference, and so I felt it was intruding on the story during its frequent mentions.
If I hadn't found out that Campion was a recurring detective I wouldn't have thought twice about his part in the story: he fit well with all the other minor characters and had no real role in the solving of the crimes.Then all of a sudden there is a mad rush out of London to the coast of France for a treasure hunt.
I did fear the outcome when they talked about the Science of Luck and the author did well to create a very tense scene and outcome which I will not spoil.The story had quite an abrupt ending, I would have liked it to be rounded off with the "happy heroes come home and share their story to all over tea and cake" but I think that is just the romantic in me.One of my favourite characters of the Campion mysteries, Lugg, was not in this story much, but what little he was, I enjoyed.
1952.This is Margery Allingham at her very best.She's written 13 Albert Campion mysteries leading up to this one, and it was worth the wait.
No, it was the five main characters, Charlie Luke, Meg Elginbrodde, Geoffrey Levett, Canon Avril, and Jack Havock, that made the book.
A very interesting musing on the nature of good and evil that is equal to any book written today.Yes, it was a very satisfying read, although not a true mystery, because we know who dunnit.
I'd say this is Ms. Allingham's most sophisticated work containing Albert Campion.
I enjoyed the first two, Sweet Danger and Traitor's Purse very much (4-5 stars), but this third, Tiger in the Smoke, was not very enjoyable to me for the following reasons: 1.
So I was expecting a Campion Mystery, as stated in the title, but Campion was just a secondary character in this book.
I think if I was forewarned that this was not a real Campion mystery, then my expectations would have been adjusted.
2. Most characters were not introduced well, and I was not able to follow who's who.
