https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5354.The_Brethren
They call themselves the Brethren: three disgraced former judges doing time in a Florida federal prison.
Or they can use their time in prison to get very rich—very fast.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه اکتبر سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: برادران؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: فریده مهدوی دامغانی؛ تهران، نشر مرداد، 1379؛ در 548 ص؛ شابک: 9647116012؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 معنوان: برادران؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: پرتو اشراق؛ تهران، جار، 1379؛ در 432 ص؛ شابک: 9649057467؛ برادران یک رمان هیجان انگیز حقوقی از نویسنده آمریکایی جان گریشام است، که در سال 2000 میلادی منتشر شده است.
The Sort of Book Most Appreciated by People who Move their Lips While Reading Grisham pulled the plot of this novel from infamous prison pen pal scams near me in Louisiana and Mississippi in the late 1980s.
Grisham must have been considering quitting his writing gig or was pissed off about having to write this, for whatever reason, say maybe because of contractual obligations when he wanted nothing else but to spend his cash traveling the world, or doing anything else besides writing legal thrillers."Scientists are now using lawyers instead of rats for their experiments.
Three of Trumble's older inmates are dubbed 'The Brethren': Joe Roy Spicer - a onetime Mississippi justice of the peace; Finn Yarber - a former California Supreme Court justice; and Hatlee Beech - an erstwhile federal judge from Texas.
When men answer Ricky's ad, the judges check them out.
Meanwhile, the United States is in the midst of a presidential campaign and CIA Dirctor Teddy Maynard - who's worried about Russian aggression - plans to get his candidate elected.
For the rest of the book, the judges and Teddy's operatives try to out-think and outmaneuver each other.
Undoubtedly well written and undeniably funny. Often cited as his funniest book, so very entertaining. Although, lack of a definite protagonist was irksome, really bothered me. I demand absolutes and neatly ordained worlds in fiction, or else it's pointless.Plus, it was scary how a presidential candidate can be so easily controlled and selected; the whole selection be that manipulative with such precision. That didn't seem fictional at all.
Grisham does a good job of painting the victims as pathetic, helpless wretches at the mercy of their passions.
In His mercy, God has given us consciences to regulate our behaviour so that we don't stack up offences against Him. It is good that Grisham's characters are fictional, but let's hope those reading them don't copy the behaviour.This book has some swearing but it isn't strong or frequent, it has some details of lust and sexual feelings, but they aren't graphic.
I like John Grisham as a writer, but not this book.Three things:1:There was something about the homophobia in the novel that made me squeamish.
It's a dominate theme in the novel, normal and accepted, as if there is no alternative to homophobia.2:The reader gets to know the inner workings of the minds of some of the worst lowlifes in the book, which is amusing at times.
Not so with the protagonist.
In fact, I'm not sure there is a protagonist.
Overall, this is one of the most cynical novels I've read in a long time.
It was an enjoyable read filled with plenty of political and legal intrigue as well as humorous writing. Ending was so-so.
The Bretheren was published in 2000, one year before 9/11, which makes it a remarkable read, and for those who read it at the time, must have been flabbergasted at the horrific event of that day, September 11, 2001 in New York.
At first glance the statement appears too simple to really grasp the impact it has on politics, industry, even conservation, but it is the most powerful concept in use today.The story, almost too fictional to be complete fiction, has this idea as starting point and proceed to implement it in a highly suspenseful drama in which three incarcerated judges execute a scam which works perfectly until they target the 'wrong' man.
I'm digressing a bit here, since these 'trials' don't really have anything to do with the plot, but I think they are worth pointing out as they were extremely well written.Anyhow, these former judges also do some legal services for other prisoners, which they obviously (and illegally) charge but since that work doesn't prove to be very profitable, they also plan a con job: placing a lone heart advert in a gay newspaper and extracting money from rich lonesome (preferably married) gay man by means of blackmail.
It is the story of the brethren, three ex-judges in a low-security prison called Trumble, who come up with a scheme to extort money from older homosexual men.
If you are not in the prison with the brethren you are probably traveling with Aaron Lake around the United States on the campaign trail or with Trevor, the brethren’s lawyer, in Neptune Beach.John Grisham makes the brethren by far the best characters in the book.
This is a problem in more ways than one because the boy is actually the brethren running their fabulous scam.Trevor is probably my favorite character in the book.
Plus it seems to have a presidential election as part of the plot.
So I dragged my heels a lot.
That plus I really wasn't digging it too much.
Early on in the story, I almost stopped reading the book altogether, when the CIA becomes aware that the US Embassy in Cairo is targeted to be bombed and just lets it happen.
And of course lots of people die.
Again, it's been ages since I've read a Grisham book, but I feel like they were typically much more gripping than this one was.
Finally, I picked up a paperback of Grisham's novel, Runaway Jury and plodded through it.
He had a slam bang plot twist at the end, plus, he completely redeemed my view of a couple of the characters.
Once again, Grisham reeled me in with an interesting premise and intriguing characters.
He's hiding one of his good characters again and there will be a carefully contrived twist at the end.
Or, he was planning on turning it all around at the end, but he never figured out how to do it, a deadline came, so he just finished it and turned it in.
Братята просто не знаят кога да се спрат: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/b...Сюжетът, ако има и други като мен, които са я пропуснали.
Трима съдии са на топло за разнообразни престъпления – това обаче не ги е трогнало особено и редом с неформалната власт, която са си извоювали в рамките на затвора, са се заели с доходоносен изнудвачески бизнес.
Работата се задвижва от един корумпиран адвокат, а заверата започва малко по малко да дава солидни плодове – и всеки от тримата има свои планове за времето, когато отново ще е на свобода.
Само дето алчността им става все по-голяма.Обсидиан ИК / Obsidian Publishershttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/b...
I only checked this book out because, sitting in my bar review course on Constitutional Law, the teacher made a reference to a book titled "The Brethren" that purported to report that the clerks (and some of the Justices themselves) on the Surpeme Court would hold 'movie day' where they would watch the evidentiary movies that were being appealed on First Amendment obscenity-content/free-speech grounds.
Such a statement was so absurd to me that I had to find-out for myself whether this was true.As it turns out, there is a seperate book titled 'The Brethren,' not by Grisham, that may or may not tell the story.
I have read several John Grisham novels and this particular one did not have the usual punch that are typical in his stories.
With a lack of twists and turns it was really difficult to stay engaged in the book.
With no true climax or twists to drive the story it felt like it lacked heart.
Overall this story just felt clumsy.If you are looking for a truly great Grisham novel I recommend The Pelican Brief, The Client, The Firm, or even The Testament.
As far as John Grisham goes... I have to say I was disappointed. I mean it was easy to read, and entertaining as Grisham always is, but the ending really sucked. To be fair, I don't know if he could ever top his classics like The Firm and A Time to Kill, etc. Let's just say, I wouldn't bother making a film out of this one.
An interesting story about a Presidential election and a scam operated out of a low-security prison by three ex Judges.
Great book. Wished the ending wasn't so predictable.
John Grisham is one of my favorite authors, and I have a lot of respect for him.
The characters in this book, however, were despicable.
The story itself was completely and utterly depressing, and even more so because I feel that an author of Grisham's stature and qualifications will have done his research and that the premise is sound.
Three judges in federal prison in Florida are running a scam.
The problem is that one of their correspondents is now running for President of the United States.
If you believe in the American justice system, or have faith that the best man wins in a Presidential election, then don't read this book.
As a lawyer, I read to escape the drama of my daily life, not to be immersed in another attorney's fictional version of what he wishes our occupation looked like.
However, this book far exceeded my expectations.
Although technically a drama, reading this book felt like an adventure I did not want to end.This wasn't a book about the law, or lawyers, or the legal field.
The plot-line could have been very one-dimensional, but it wasn't.
Instead, I counted a minimum of five separate plot-lines that all intertwined to make an exciting novel that ended far too soon.
I have now read around a dozen of John Grisham's books and I have to be honest this was my least favourite one so far. There were large parts of the book that do have the John Grisham magic but generally the plot was drawn out and tiresome. Once it does get get going the book improves but again it is let down by a very disappointing ending.
A fantastic scam, scared in-the-closet folks, CIA and the Presidential Election! Wow! It has been a long time since I have read John Grisham's novels. The wait was worth it. The pages had glue attached to them and I was able to finish the book in 3 sittings (which is a big deal for me.) It was fun.
A second story line takes place entirely within "the bunker", a windowless room from which Teddy Maynard, the aging and disabled director of the CIA, plays kingmaker and manipulates domestic and international events.
The bulk of the novel is about the extensive measures taken by Teddy and the CIA to protect their investment in Lake, eventually bringing together the three story lines in what is probably supposed to be a shocking conclusion.Not one of the characters in the book is well-developed.
Doing Time Never Paid So GoodTo quite a few people, when they hear that John Grisham has come out with a new novel, their first hasty generalization is that it is another “lawyer book.” This may have been true with his first five novels, but the subsequent five had been entirely different.
Once again, John Grisham has delivered with The Brethren, a unique story that keeps the reader hooked until the very end.The Brethren are three judges doing time in a prison in Florida.
Since I'm a law aficionado, I often read one Grisham novel a year (my legal drama fix mostly comes from lawyer TV shows though).
For 2012, I'm glad I chose this one.If you're accustomed to his body of work, then you know that most of Grisham's books have bittersweet endings.
Unless the book sucks, I hardly give spoilers when I do a review.A lot of his novels follow one character—usually some divorced, middle-aged lawyer who's assigned a peculiar case.
It's a preposterous story but one delivered exceptionally.My only gripe with this book, as with most Grisham novels, the narrative tends to somewhat drag during the final chapters.
Skeletons in the closet are what this story is all about.
Skeletons that are being threatened to be exposed by conniving inmates in a federal prison.
I was telling myself this is why I like Grisham; then without warning, it suddenly ended!
The complications presented in 99 percent of the book were resolved and concluded in the last one percent.
So there I was, wondering where the other pages might have gone; but it was really the end already!Was it just me?
Would I have reacted differently if I took less time to finish this book?
Maybe I shouldn't read two Grisham books this close together.
I finished The Appeal a few weeks ago; it was entertaining (refer to my earlier review).
The Brethren just didn't do it for me.
The Brethren was another political election "fixing" storyline.
The Brethren are three judges serving prison terms in a low/minimum security prison.
It's too much like The Appeal storyline and it takes too long to end.
The setup is pounding at the reader four or five times until finally, the story moves along.
I usually finish if I'm that far in.
Maybe next time I won't.
I don't have any doubt that Grisham will once again cast a spell on me with th rich story he had crafted through The Brethen. This is despite the selected diatribes I have read from the critics and fellow goodreaders. Undeniably, this novel is an amalgamation of humor and wit.
I enjoyed this Grisham novel! It was easy to read and to understand, and the plot had good detail. I liked the unexpected plot changes! Recommended for those who like easy mysteries!
This was great! Fun to read.
