https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/696991.The_Secret_in_the_Old_Lace
Another exciting mystery in this series, but with a different feel this time around.
Nancy Drew books are always good reading when something light and uncomplicated is needed. This one story is no exception. The foreign setting was new to me and a nice change of scenery. The story also contains the typical bad guy, mysterious messages, old attics, and missing treasure. Recommend.
Another good Nancy Drew mystery.Nancy Drew enters a contest to solve an old mystery. The old mystery takes place in Belgium, and, as luck would have it, Nancy's friend Bess has a new mystery for Nancy to solve that involves the girls (Nancy, Bess, and George) traveling to Belgium.
I had to read a book from childhood for a challenge and now I remember why I read all of the nancy drew books.
Not at all interesting or mysterious, hardly challenging to Nancy. Most of the clues were hard to believe and readily available for Nancy.She hardly did any sleuthing in this book and the mystery was not that interesting or hard enough for her.
Set in Belgium. Nancy speaks French. Nancy, Bess, and George solve 100-year old mystery and restore lost inheritance to rightful owner. Nice local details. Fairly typical.
I have read some Nancy Drew before but it has been years. I liked the mystery unveiling throughout the book. It was not a difficult read at all but enjoyable.Category: Novel/Chapter Book
Good book, though not as good as I thought it would be.
This was my first time reading one of the ever-so-famous Nancy Drew books, and I had high expectations.
Recognized as an amateur detective, Nancy Drew enters a magazine contest to solve a mystery about the disappearance of a wealthy man, his lace cuffs, and his treasure; but when she realizes this mystery presents opportunity for her to solve it in real life, she faces more than just one mystery.
As I was reading, I saw some immediate opportunities to discuss characteristics of the mystery genre and analyzing text features.
Students can also create their own mystery books.
And of course, in Nancy Drew fashion, she solves the mystery - within a time limit and under threat from the baddies.To enjoy the book so much despite the fact that Nancy has Mary-Sue like qualities is quite suprising for me.
I suppose she's just a really likable Mary-Sue. Or you know, I'm suffering from my childhood bias.Of course, you have to be familiar with the characters to enjoy the books.
In fact, I wonder how The Famous Five, Trixie Belden and all my childhood detectives will be like if I re-read them.* When I say 'Nancy Drew Books', I mean the classics.
Summary- In the beginning of the book Nancy sends her manuscript into the company. While she is waiting for a reply her friend’s mom gets a letter from an old roommate saying that there is some sort of mystery at her place and needs Nancy to come and solve it. When someone tries to steal her manuscript she is suspicious of the painter. When she goes to some place in England she encounters a bigger mystery than she expected. While she’s in England she solves both mysteries. Both the Mystery of th
While she is waiting for a reply her friend’s mom gets a letter from an old roommate saying that there is some sort of mystery at her place and needs Nancy to come and solve it.
When she goes to some place in England she encounters a bigger mystery than she expected.
While she’s in England she solves both mysteries.
Both the Mystery of the manuscript and the mystery of the roommates mansion.Characters-		The main character in this book is Nancy.
By the end of the book she solves 2 mysteries instead of just 1.
The contest asks its readers to solve a mystery about a young man who lived in the 19th century in Belgium who received a pair of lace cuffs that had a message hidden in them.
It turns out that the young man who disappeared lived in the house long ago.The cross is stolen from the house one night while everyone is out.The girls meet the great grandson of the young man and they discover the hiding place of the lace cuffs and the fortune which turns out to be jewelry.
The book was interesting.It had romance,intrigue and a pair of lace cuffs.In this book nancy and her
Nancy Drew, teenage detective, wants to win a mystery writing contest, but her manuscript is stolen! Also, she is invited to a mansion in Belgium to solve a mystery. In Belgium, some criminals try to get in her way of solving the mystery. They may have something to do with her manuscript... But you'll have to read it to find out!I recommend this book to people of all ages, specifically middle schoolers, as there are some tricky words in the book! Hope you enjoy the book!
This is my absolute favorite of all the Nancy Drew mysteries, the one I read a dozen times as a kid, the one I was sure I owned a copy of but can't seem to find among my other children's books. Maybe I actually read it until it fell apart and my mom got rid of it...I still remember lying on my stomach transfixed as I read about Nancy's adventure in Belgium (so Old World exotic) with Francois (I thought it was pronounced Frank-oyse). Brilliant.
Nancy and George teases Bess about her love of food and her weight in just about every book which I find annoying at times. But in this book I thought George was very cruel. She was actually bullying her cousin! She was being more cruel than usual and I wonder if I can look at her the same way again.
This book was ok, but not one of my favorites.This is the only Nancy Drew book I have ever read. It was okay, I mean it was worth the read (I can not really remember what happened in the whole thing) I think younger kids would love this book. So if you a fan of Nancy Drew I recommend this book to you.
i love this mystery. I think that if you think like her, you can come to the same conclusion. Though this is a series, read any one book, and start from there. You will realize the style of this wonderful author, and how it shapes all her other stories.
This story was better than the other more recent ones I've read ... it was fairly well written and kept my interest, complete with secret passages and old letters, disappearances, and even the unbelievable coincidences that always occur. But a pretty good story, and great fun!
I just hate how stupid Madame Chambray was for publishing on the local newspaper about the bejewelled cross and Nancy Drew coming to Brugge. I mean, for her age (being "Madame" and friends with Mrs. Marvin, I assume she's probably fortyish), she could really afford to be so naive and all that.
This book is about Investigator called Nancy Drew(I assume that you areadly knew her name) who investigates a missing lace and people who wanted to steal a rare and valuable diamond cross,Will Nancy able to solve this mystery after every one wants to stop her(except her friends of course)!?
C'est une tres bonne histoire avec l'energie, mystere, et action.
This is one of my favorite Nancy Drew books
favorite of all Nancy Drew Mysteries. :)
Placeholder for reread of Warlord by Elizabeth Vaughan
I've read all the Nancy Drew AND Hardy Boys books. You just can't go wrong with them. They're classics.
I read many of the Nancy Drew books as a little girl. I remember this one especially for whatever reason. I'm not sure of how many others I've read. A great series for young girls.
I kind of got bored with it when I was reading it only a few times, but now that I think about it the story was REALLY interesting. You should read it!
Read in 2005.
Another well done and exciting addition to the Nancy Drew book series. This time, Nancy travels to Europe to solve a mystery involving people on two continents!
