https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30833.The_Death_and_Life_of_Great_American_Cities
Because project- and workflow-oriented professionals had talked each other into thinking their work was not about serving New York on its own chaotic, seedy, obnoxious terms, but about meeting some ideal, objective end that existed only in their heads, design manifestos, and PowerPoint presentations.(Or whatever people used in the ancient times of 1958 instead of PowerPoint.)In July 2011, StackExchange board member and ThinkUp creator Anil Dash floated the idea that online social networks should be looking to the urban planning discipline for guidance on how to manage the diverse interests of their user bases and conflicts arising from their roles as public forums.
This is a common assumption: that human beings are charming in small numbers and noxious in large numbers. I picked up this book immediately after finishing The Power Broker, and I highly recommend this sequence to anyone who has the time. The conflict between Robert Moses, czar-like planner of New York City for almost half a century, and Jane Jacobs, ordinary citizen and activist, has become the source of legend. There is a book about it, Wrestling with Moses, a well-made documentary, Citizen
And in practice the projects were disasters—centers of delinquency and despair.Jacobs’s recipe for creating a healthy neighborhood has four ingredients: (1) mixed uses, so that different kinds of people are drawn to the area at different times of day for different reasons; (2) a mixture of old and new buildings, so that there is low-rent space available for small businesses and low-income residents; (3) small blocks, so that streets are not isolated from one another; and (4) sufficient density of residents, to create the necessary amount of economic and social activity.
I know some people who will balk at my 3-star rating, so I will explain myself. As a body of work, it is amazing and I adore Jane Jacobs. However, a good portion of this book still manages to be dull, despite being very important. (I can't help it!) I dig nonfiction, and I think 3 stars for a non-fiction book means it's pretty darn good, because who ever finished a cruddy non-fiction book unless they were taking a class? So, I read it voluntarily and give it 3 stars on the highly-sensitive and mysterious non-fiction rating system.
But her solutions were few (other than to stop practices that had proven failures, but that continue to be implemented today, 50 years later) and the few solutions she had struck me as nearly as inherently flawed as the practices she despised.It was illuminating because it revealed the many reasons why low-income housing projects failed time and time again.
You know that feeling you get when someone expresses a political belief that you share, but explains the position using arguments that you find unavailing, anecdotal, or specious?
That's what this book felt like.
It's almost as if Jacobs thinks her own Sesame Street cast of characters is a prerequisite for every healthy urban biome, because without the proper complement of kibitzers shouting unsolicited weekend bus route information to strangers and Joe Cornacchia, delicatessen-proprietor-and-premonitory-glance-giver-extraordinaire, anomie would prevail!
I'm happy that New York looks more like Jacobs' vision than like Moses', but this feels like it could have been adequately conveyed in pamphlet form.
An urban classic that remains applicable.Jacobs makes a strong case and repeats it over and over.
It's what helps you understand why cities work, why they don't work, what makes a neighborhood, what destroys neighborhoods and how almost everything city planners and governments think matters, doesn't.
It was this unique position that gave her the freedom and the perspective to explain the concept of American cities (and what's killing them) in a way that no one had ever done before.
I also think that a lot of Jacobs' ideas about diversity, mixed uses, isolation, wealth and government can be applied to other parts of our lives.
This took me a while to read because it was easy to put down.
This book is famous for being one of the first sources of critique of American city planning, and many of her arguments seem to hold water even today.
This said, I constantly asked myself "where is the science?" while reading this.
My assessment of this book mirrors my judgment of the urban planning discipline in general.
I am not very familiar with the more rigorous side of urban planning, but my impression is that it is wrought with stylistic trends that gain their popularity from some source other than studies which prove that one decision is actually better than any other.
Favorite passages:To generate exuberant diversity in a city's streets and districts, four conditions are indispensable: The distrct must serve more than one purpose (preferably more than two), the blocks must be short, the buildings must vary in age and condition, and the population must be dense.Euclid Avenue in Cleveland, which used to be considered by many critics one of the most beautiful of American avenues (it was, in those days, essentially a suburban avenue of large, fine houses with large, fine grounds), has now been excoriated, with justice… as one of the ugliest and most disorganized of city streets.
It is easy to write Jacobs off as a utopian, but this book, derived from a women's-eye view of living in New York's Greenwich Village in the late 1950s gives us a great sense of what the city could be and her recurrent struggles with and voer Robert Moses's attempts to redesign NYC in the 1960s privide us with a model of urban struggle and defencs of urban space.
It remains a blistering critique of the impacts of urban design, of the inadequacies of design-from-the-top, and a powerful case of the usefulness of ethnographic participant observation - not that she set out to be an ethnographer, but to be a polticial advocate from her locality.
Superb.
Jane Jacobs is brilliant. Her insights on urban planning are both practical and exciting.
Evidently an important work within the author's field, this book deals with the concept of community and the nature of people, and the elements of a city that make those things possible.
I would love to see a revised edition that references differences between the time this book was written and now and if the principles covered here still hold true.
Anyone who has lived in a major city knows the importance of outdoor time and something that this book pointed out to me that I had never noticed in my own little world, was that some spaces are used and others aren't and the reasons why.
Rather than rely on abstract aesthetic principles concocted on a draft board, Jacobs starts from first principles and street-level, observational data, constructing a revolutionary view of how cities work and what makes them great -- liveliness, activity, opportunity, diversity.
Jacobs identifies four key requirements for a successful City district: mixed primary uses, short blocks, varied building ages, and population density.
That Jacobs does it with such a fully realized theory, in such a well structured and written book, is awe inspiring.
It's eminently readable (and isn't that a pleasure in a book of this kind), but also incredibly insightful and of course I love how it resonates so brilliantly with my experience living in many different cities while toppling most accepted planning theory.
I don't think that makes the insight offered by Jacobs any less, simply incomplete, and highlights the fact that a more fundamental change in how we develop and plan our cities is required, one based upon need and increasing vitality rather than the greatest profit.
After reading it, I’d say that anyone living in New York City (or any other major metropolitan area, “Great American City” in Jacobs’ words) should not just read but ingest it.The introduction states her thesis, which is essentially that traditional urban planners (as of 1961, the original date of publication, but most of her points about NYC planners remain valid today), instead of addressing cities on their own terms with their own distinctly, well, “city” relationships and problems, try to make them fit into smaller-town prototypes.
"Why have cities not, long since, been identified, understood and treated as problems of organized complexity?" "Dull, inert cities, it is true, do contain the seeds of their own destruction. But lively, diverse, intense cities contain the seeds of their own regeneration, with energy enough to carry over for problems and needs outside themselves."
Jacobs creates a vivid, wide ranging critique of the dominant forms of city planning, which are driven as she compellingly points out, by stupidly reactionary, romantic notions about how people should be made to live.
would effect how people move, interact and live within a city.
Whenever I drive around the not-quite-great American city I live in, I now find myself trying to determine if the blocks are too long, if the road-bed is too wide, and noticing how the space around most of the parks is conspicuously empty and dead.
The first few chapters, with their endless gushing lyricization of the "urban ballet" romantic descriptions of rows of stores on some Greenwhich village street did have my teeth mildly on edge.
Rather than celebrating the density and diversity of cities as some fuzzy invitation to endless communality, she actually praises the sharp deliniation of privacy and withdrawl allowed by the city, explains the economic basis of functional streets and emphasizes the changeability of spaces and the inevitable influence of built form on use and community.
I cannot recommend this book highly enough. Especially to anyone who's interested in the ways in which cities operate, but also to pretty much anyone else. Ms. Jacobs was hella prescient in her emphasis on cityspace needing to be used more than produced, and goes about demonstrating the failures of modernist planning and drawing a line towards a new method of development in which the city-dweller takes primacy. Also, it warns about the dangers of gentrification years before anyone else was thinking about it, predicts the decline of cities with the building of large expressways, and on and on. Wow!
Jacobs's talent is in not doing that, in looking at and describing things exactly as they are--from big, philosophical things, like what privacy means in an urban environment, to small, practical things, like how traffic signal timing that eases the way for cars by its nature simultaneously slows buses (and vice versa).
(She also has a secondary talent of being quite funny; I laughed out loud far more often than I expected while reading this book.)She does have some blind spots, particularly around gender (she seems incapable of imagining a day when the majority of women are not stay-at-home mothers) and sexuality (there is exactly no mention of gay people in this book, unless you count a reference to a "pervert park"), and her thoughts on finance are often outdated.
Genius woman!
Jacobs writes to challenge the utopian, modernist, grand-scale, top-down, social engineering approach to planning that prevailed (I over-generalise) between the early 20th century and the late 1970s in the Western world.
Quite late in the book, Jacobs notes that urban problems involve ‘organised complexity’, meaning that multiple variables are at play and each interacts with each of the others.
Probably because agent-based modelling of complex urban problems remains computationally intensive and economics has taken over the social sciences.
To economists, planning is just a useless block to development, a system that should probably be replaced by taxation of social costs.
Тем не менее, конечно, они объединены общей идеей.Что категорически не понравилось - так это сугубо мещанский неолиберальный подход к защите "мелкого бизнеса".
Так что резать к чёртовой матери, не дожидаясь перитонита.Что понравилось - да практически всё остальное.
Глава об автомобилях - вообще прекрасна с любой стороны, включая неформальную - вызывать у водятлов острую боль в седалище (и так измученном постоянным сидячим положением).
Я согласен с постулатом описания книги - "влиятельная книга в истории урбанистики", и хотя и отметаю определительное местоимение "самая" - могу рекомендовать интересующимся вопросом.
My mother is a historic preservationist in Greenwich Village, and I grew up a block away from Jacobs' favorite example of a well-functioning city block.
How can I even review this book?I'm looking forward to reading some more recent of Jacobs' writings, because the context of this book is almost as important as the argument itself.
She's writing at a time when cities, including New York, are dying -- dangerous, shrinking, getting poorer.
For a book that is not about a particular city but about cities in general, it has far too few examples, and I think this is where Jacobs leaves herself open to the most criticism.
Urban planning is something I knew literally nothing about, and now I am able to hold a reasonably intelligent conversation about some of the issues- to the point where some nosey stranger said "ahh you guys are planners aren't you?" This book is surprisingly easy to read, and Jane Jacobs approaches the flaws of current urban planning tactics with amusingly caustic commentary, giving enough background to inform but not overwhelm, and then often moves into a well organized explanation of what she believes is a better approach.
And a plug- to hell with Radiant Garden City Beautiful!
I know that if I had met Jane Jacobs, I would have liked her.
I like people like that, especially those who don't set themselves up as experts over their fellow citizens.I was dazzled by this book when I found it years ago; it crystalized the arguments I had stumbled through to explain what I liked about different places, and didn't like about others, and it told me that I was right to value the cityscape and my neighbors and did it in plain language.So much of what Jacobs brought to the fight is at play in my home of New Orleans, so re-reading this book is like sitting with a seasoned activist who listens to your complaints and then says to you with a sigh and a firm push, "Well then, get out there and try again."Thanks Jane.
This is pretty much the bible of modern urban planning, and it's definitely a great read if that is a subject that interests you.
It delves pretty deeply into the topic matter and as such if you're not a city wonk you might not find it interesting (may I recommend Jeff Speck's Walkable City instead?).That said, I found it very interesting, truthful, and likely to surprise many preconceived notions of how cities should be planned.
If you're involved in any sort of city planning or real estate development, or if you're a citizen who comments on such matters frequently, you should probably read this.
Consider, for example, how a café with outdoor tables on the sidewalk in a neighborhood that also included people’s homes and public spaces for other purposes could encourage regular interaction and discussion of experiences among those who live in the neighborhood.All in all, Jacobs’ conception points out the necessity for a wide variety of different levels of relationship as necessary for making cities livable human environments.I think Jacobs is wrong in considering the various suggestions of city planners that undermine this diversity and empty the streets to be well-intentioned mistakes.
As someone working on a big, unstructured move of my own in the next few months, this is particularly timely advice.The second half is very clearly not meant for me; it talks about what to do with a city in order to avoid its death and promote its liveliness.
I suspect if I were a city planner I would have found a lot more value in these sections, but, well, I'm not and so I didn't.In terms of how this book actually changed my thoughts on choosing a place to live, the following insights were particularly influential to me:* When choosing where to live, work top down.
While my own adopted home town of Portland, Oregon, has taken many of Jacobs' lessons to heart and become the better for it, other lessons remain and other cities still build monumental structures, income-stratified housing projects and vast open parks instead of simple places for people.The core of Jacobs' book is simple, and simply stated; she lays it out herself in less than one page:To generate exuberant diversity in a city's streets and districts, four conditions are indispensable:1.
