https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/587678.The_Cannibal
another forgotten and brilliant classic. the challenging writing style will put casual readers off, but for me it was great experiencing this bizarre, sinister dreamscape of a post-ww2 germany. or really any kind of blighted post-war city, trying to rebuild. at times it reads like a perverse counterpoint to mrs. dalloway, complete with its own scarier version of septimus smith. overall a sordid but gorgeous novel. the majestic heroine will do anything it takes to survive; eat up!
If, like me, you’re struggling with what to buy Mom for this upcoming Mother’s Day, look no more.
But has she borne witness to a post-World War II terrorscape the likes of Hawkes’ Germany?
The Cannibal is a horrifying little novel (emphasis on little if you buy the original New Directions hardcover) that, like all great Hawkes, has imagery that will stick to your ribs.
Apparently these people read a different book, as this one A) has a plot; and B) said plot is pretty damn linear and compelling.

The opening sections present so many events in passing that will go unexplained and unaddressed until a hundred pages later, that there's very little way to process it at first, until a full reading and re-reading really.
I passed them over as obscure signs outside the actual events for too long, when the only way to really take them may be to accept them as fact.Somehow I rarely had a sensation of enjoying reading this, stumbled through for a while, but somewhere a transition bled through, retrospectively it seems one of Hawkes' better and more urgent visions.
I literally just finished reading Hawkes' novel and feel compelled to write about it, even though it's just now passing into my digestive track.
I'm so glad it's there.My first rumblings on finishing The Cannibal have to do with what Hawkes completes and what he predicts.
Perhaps corporations are our beast, and they've already arrived from Bethlehem.Hawkes predicts Bob Dylan's best work, especially the post-apocalyptic "Desolation Row." He employs a healthy amount of surrealistic imagery (magical realism?) that would appeal to Bobby - who's message, I think, is that the enemy has already won; we just don't know it yet.
Surreally tenebrous novel The Cannibal reminded me of Pedro Páramo by Juan Rulfo - although thematically they are pretty different both tales have thick suffocating atmosphere of descending into hell.“The flats turned away before us, unpeopled, dark, an occasional shell-case filling with seepage, the fingers of a lost glove curling with dew. Behind us the ghosts left the stalled tank and filed downward toward the canal.”Civilization hides some primordial hungers and when the rules are removed we bare our teeth.Dire surrealism is immanent in any reality.
4/5It's easy to see why John Hawkes was name checked in the infamous Mr. Difficult essay. Hawkes uses a very spare framework to tell this story, and to be quite honest I could have done some re-reading to really sink my teeth into book. My gut reaction from my hurried reading was that I need to read more Hawkes, so I'm going to just stop here and marvel in the fact that this was someone's debut novel in the late forties. Bring on The Lime Twig !
Einer der sogenannten Writer’s Writer ist John Hawkes, der die amerikanische Postmoderne, von Thomas Pynchon, William Gaddis bis William Gass maßgeblich beeinflußt hat, selbst aber kaum wahrgenommen wurde.
Das Buch erscheint mir wie ein expressionistisch alptraumhaftes Gemälde des Irrsinns, den der Krieg im Land und in den Menschen hinterlassen hat.
Mir hat es ganz ausgezeichnet gefallen.Leider sind “Der Kannibale” und die anderen beiden auf Deutsch erschienenen Bücher selbst im Antiquariat schwer aufzutreiben und leider ist mein Englisch zu wenig ausgereift, um auch die sprachlichen Finessen dieser anspruchsvollen Prosa erfassen zu können.
A novel set in a German hamlet in the immediate aftermath of World War II would be remiss if it weren’t a nightmarish elucidation of the darkest recesses available to the human soul.
The community of crippled World War losers and the passing column of arrogant victors doing their murky plotting in John Hawkes’s The Cannibal take readers into degraded regions of ambition and endeavor beyond where light can hope to reach.
The view, though not clear, is clearly bleak.

Yet, one of the German characters still proudly boasts of his country, that, “Thirty years is not enough time to measure the complete crystallization of a nation, though partially lost; to measure the greatest advance of communal men, though partially destroyed...” Hawkes seems to be saying, writing in the aftermath of WWII, that life in the 20th century is not about love and pleasure, but about war and death, a life “lived” in order to fulfill your nation’s myth.
This was a hard book to rate.
I think I want to give it 3.5/5.I really enjoyed the writing, and the eerie surreal nightmare atmosphere.
But despite myself I found I was constantly lost as to what was happening...and sort of didn't care to try to fix it.
The ending was more clear to me so I found myself really into this world for the last few chapters.I believe this book would make for better reading upon multiple readings.
Which is good, it means there are riches still to be discovered.
But I don't think I will be returning for quite a while.
To be honest, I don't really know what happened in this book. Parts 1& 3 take place at the end of WW2, while Part 2 happens around WW1, but all take place in a fictional German town. The only character shared by both parts is Stella Snow, and from what I can tell, she basically just sluts it up. There's also a guy on a motorcycle - Angel of Death? Poor sap? who knows...
It's a postwar novel set in a small German town.
It flashes back and forth between right after WWII and WWI.It's not a happy novel; War is inevitable, a new Fuhrer is right around the corner after killing the metaphorically powerful yet tired motorcycle-driving American, and Hawkes can feel the German people urging towards violence (and madness) once again.
In fact, the novel doesn't really seem to be an enclosed arc, but the view into a recurring cycle of violence and hate that continues right where WWII left off.The Duke is one of the most horrifying characters I've ever read, and almost seems like a direct precursor to Cormac McCarthy's Judge.
It's not as good as 'The Lime Twig', still my favorite of the Hawkes I've read; in the same general vein as 'The Beetle Leg' but not as realized IMHO. All three of them make sense as his first three novels, compared to a book like 'The Blood Oranges', where he's left the surreal nightmare-scapes behind. Incredibly impressive for a 22 year old in the late 1940s. He is a difficult writer, it is disjointed in narrative and minimal in plot, and yet I am drawn to his work, in a way that I can't explain.
Ok, I really hated this book, but I give it five stars. Let me explain. I had to put it down a lot--sort of the equivalent of covering my eyes at the movies. Reading it did strange, bad things to my heart rate. The book is a masterpiece of oblique anxiety and despair. Events are much more unhinged than in Kafka, with whom Hawkes is sometimes compared. Disturbing and unique.
Sparse language ripe with imagery. The devastation seeps from every word.
Una magnifica, brutal e impactante narración sobre las postrimerías de la Segunda Guerra Mundial, la vida cotidiana de los alemanes que acababan de perder la guerra, sus miserias y los desvaríos de unos pocos que a pesar del dramático escenario en el que sobreviven a duras penas, aún sueñan con devolver a Alemania el supuesto esplendor vivido bajo el yugo nazi. Un clásico muy bien escrito y por desgracia poco recordado.
as i stumble from word to word mesmerized by language i have no recollection of where i have been and little thought as to where i am going. the horror pollutes the mind. the inhabitants wallow in their miasma. germany 1914 to 1945 but then it could be anywhere.
a great first novel, multi-layered and somnambulistic, sur/anti-realistic, man-eating essence of war and nazionalism as cannibalism.
Incredible. Really comes together in the third part, so hang in there. It’s short anyway. Also makes me think of the Noble Cause Confederacy claim too. This book damns everybody.
I came across that Pynchon, thought by literary scholars that The Cannibal and The Lime Twig were influences on Pynchon's 1973 novel Gravity's Rainbow.
The Cannibal first takes place in a German town after WWII in 1945.
Hawkes gives us these little sections in which he tells us, through the narrator Zizendorf, that this town has been down and out.
These scenes in the book read like a gothic Kafka story.
I'm sure if I read it a few more times, I might find out my answer rather than Mr. Hawkes answer.
I really wanted to love it; this type of mid-20th century experimental lit (Robbe-Grillet, Lowry, Rulfo, Beckett, etc.) is like totally my thing.
I would read page after page (particularly at the beginning) of these descriptions of this surreal, post-war German wasteland, written in this jagged, violent language, and yet it produced no visceral reaction whatsoever.
And, if nothing else, it's a very original and striking work.This was also Hawkes' first novel and he was all of about 22 when he wrote it, so I still might look into some of his later novels and hope that they work more for me.
Has that grim, "experimental literature" text-focussed flavor, rather sterile. That soulless "academy writing" atmosphere is actually a fine match for the nightmare conception of the action, like a grim music video shot in ostentatiously grainy "experimental film" black and white. But the author doesn't have nearly as much to say as his technique lets on (or his subject matter would seem to demand) and the opacity becomes irritating. This kind of freestyle approach really requires a perfect control, but this is a student's work and feels like it.
This rightly feels like a young man's book, because its author was only 24 when it was published. Due to the introduction, I could discern the opaque plot hidden in the murky prose, but this still read like a long, allegorical, free-verse prose poem. The horror did not resonate for me, perhaps because I felt no emotional momentum.
Strange, strange tale about soldier turned grim-reaper-like biker in post-WWII Germany. Hard to figure out what's going on most of the time but Hawkes' corrosive poetry more than makes up for the lack of plot.
Heavy symbolism. In fact, the entire book is comprised of symbolism so if you're looking for a plot, forget it. Shoots back and forth from Germany 1918 to Germany 1945. Think Ageyev or Kiesbye meets Böll.
couldn't do it....too much arty bleak description.
really don't know what to say---okay
Certainly beautifully written and very layered tale of Germany immediately following WW11. Full of despair and very dark. Will have to reread to fully decipher Hawkes' meaning. Great read however.
