https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12823.The_Night_Trilogy
'Night' is a holocaust memoir ; 'Dawn' and 'Day' are fiction novels about holocaust survivors.
It's about a young holocaust-survivor who joins a Jewish underground movement in Palestine and is commanded to execute a British officer who has been taken hostage.
It was all about the inner struggle to fulfill the command to execute the officer.
In fact, he was whining about it so much that I wished he would put a bullet through his own head.
Because let's not forget, all his whining doesn't change the fact he's a terrorist.
One of the frightening things about the Holocaust was the fact that in spite of what we wish to believe it was predominantly perpetrated by ordinary people.
This is the first time I have ready Dawn and Day(The Accident) and the truly remarkable aspect of Wiesel's writing is how simple, in a way, he is able to present the dilemma that survivors face.
After all, the past is responsible in so many ways of making us who were are in the present that fully discarding it is impossible.Wiesel should be required reading.
The short stories are an exercise in imagination on the part of Wiesel, who envisions situations in which he places a character veru much like himself.
Because his character is always his age and a Holocaust survivor, he seems real, human, tangible, never fake or drawn out.
I read this the day I visited his Memorial House in Sighetul Marmatiei, a town in my country of Romania.
His story and house were fascinating.
Tomorrow I'm also visiting Auschwitz - I'm writing this here so I can remember over years - and I hope his books will come in good use whilst witnessing said place.
An odd little trilogy, comprising of one seminal work of non-fiction, and two fictional follow ups.
It is also a very devout boy's understanding and acceptance of the fact that if there is a God, he's not kind or merciful nor is he a particularly vigilant one.The other two books Dawn, and the Accident are follow ups to Night.
They're fictional post-holocaust books, catching the protagonist at odd moments of his life after the war.
I did not like these to the extent of Night, but they are great books in their own right.
You will find the true answers Eliezer, only within yourself.Life within Auschwitz involved a daily struggle to survive but also & perhaps more importantly to retain hope and to continue a belief in God's mercy for a young Jewish boy raised within a strong religious framework.
Elie Wiesel was forced to constantly say Kaddish for fellow inmates of the concentration camp who were detained with him but also for his family and eventually for his own lost faith in God. As with any Holocaust story I am challenged to comprehend how anyone, especially a young boy had the reservoir of mental, emotional & physical strength to brave such horrors.On a particular day in Auschwitz, Elie Wiesel heard a fellow inmate declaring, "Blessed be the name of the Eternal" and reflected: Why should I bless Him?
He comments a few times on situations where, looking back, they could have avoided trauma.
But, instead, because of fear or naivety, or trust in human decency, they continued to be herded and killed.
There was not an ounce of human decency or morality in those events.
The other books describe post-Holocaust emotions, the first as the survivor is required to execute a man, and the second as he tries to love and be loved.
It really made the horror of that time in our history and it's after effects on the generation of survivors, real for me.
These books are hard to read, as it is a true first-person portrayal of the horrors of concentration camps (Night) and then the permanent mental and emotional after-effects (Dawn and The Accident) in the survivor.
Even though it is not happy reading, it is necessary that we all get a graphic and honest portrayal of the atrocities to ensure that it will never happen again.In my opinion, probably the worst effect for each young man/hero in each story (we could even argue that the three survivors are the same man?) is the loss of faith.
Night: The language used here is so haunting and beautiful that I often felt myself on the verge of tears.
It’s hard to say anything other than how chilling and important EW’s memoir is to all generations.
This almost felt like an episode of The Twilight Zone due to the combination of the mystical/spiritual conflicts and real-life actions.
I did like the way the story was presented non-chronologically, it really fits for the character and the story.
The writing itself was still excellent, but I think I had a little trouble engaging with the character.
Granted, I think that’s the point.
Overall this is an excellent and important collection.
The first, Night, is the one everyone has read (and now me too, finally!) and the others, Dawn and The Accident, are about Elie's subsequent life experiences and how the shadow of being a concentration camp survivor permeates every aspect of his life and being.
In Night, night refers to the actual first night that Elie is in a concentration camp but it also means what his life has become: "Never shall I forget that night, the first night in camp which has turned my life into one long night, seven times cursed and seven times sealed." Night also represents his transformation, from a human child with a soul and a future, to an empty shell: "The night was gone.
Moreover, he was one of those few who survived BOTH Auschwitz and Buchenwald concentration camps, not to mention some minor camps in addition to this and harrowing "evacuation" procedures at the end of the war, which themselves killed so many people.Night tells about the events associated with life in a Jewish ghetto, and then in a series of death camps, where Jews were killed by thousands, and Elie Wiesel was among a minor part of survivors who were temporarily used for hard work.
It's difficult to mark a book five stars when your stomach feels like emptying at the end of it.Anyone who's read Night (and everyone should) knows it isn't your typical light reading.
[spoiler]Images of prisoners trampling each other for a crust of bread, or running down their own family to avoid being shot, remain with you forever after reading the book - you can't even begin to imagine what seeing those things first hand is like.
What feeling like doing those things must have been like.[/spoiler]Although they are fiction, Dawn and The Accident are fitting sequels to Night.
Never have I read a piece of writing that has simply moved me to tears.
If there's one thing that I would like people from the coming generations to be aware of, it's this amazing piece of writing that is called 'Night'.'Dawn' and 'Day' depicts -in fictional terms- the author's struggle in forming a new life after going through such atrocities that has casted a permanent shadow onto him wherever he goes or whatever he does.
Read these three amazing works of literature and be prepared to find emotions in you that you never thought were there.
Bought this copy at a concentration camp in Germany, and the images Wiesel paints have a hauntingly concrete setting in my mind.
The narrator in the novellas calls himself a storyteller, and the author certainly is a gifted one: this work sets out to and succeeds in putting a nightmare in a narrative that honors the victims without forgetting to acknowledge the legitimacy and humanity of their terror.
This is undoubtedly an important work that shows the rawness of humanity at its worst, but also glimmers of its best.
For my masters degree, I set myself the challenge to read all of Elie's books in order of publication--starting with Night. The journey through his works, one after the other, revealed an increasingly nuanced understanding of one man's struggle to come to terms with human evil, suffering, forgiveness and memory. Elie is a man of remarkable compassion. We are the richer for having his works in our libraries.
This was my second time to read Night and my first experience with Dawn and Day. Each one was written from the heart of someone who was permanently changed by the awful events of the Holocaust.
Day was another work of fiction that I felt was a depiction of how difficult some survivors found the task of assimilating back into a “normal” life having experienced hell.
Based on all that I’ve read about this terrible time, I’m amazed that any person came out of it with their sanity intact.
At times it was hard to read.
I do however, believe that accounts of the Holocaust must be read.
Night is Weisel’s harrowing true-life account of his time in the concentration camps.
Not only did he lack a Messiah, but he lacked the God of his tradition as well, and I found that to be the most painful part of all.Dawn was a novelization of Weisel’s introspection.
I believe his point was: can someone who has suffered and survived deep atrocities have the right to happiness and a chance at life when so many others were denied that opportunity?
The Night Trilogy was a major eye-opener, as well as a sad record of one man’s life of pain without meaning- likely up until the author’s death.
Night is the only true story in this book of 3.
They are what happens after surviving the greatest hell imaginable, Hitler's concentration camp, and surviving, not really living, your life afterward.
Questions of what is God and why things like Nazi Germany were allowed to happen are questioned in the tales, not answered, but asked.
Don't pick up this book if you are looking for a light, happy read.
It is a worthy read, but Night depressed me for days, it took almost a month before I could read the other 2 in the trilogy.
Night was incredible!!! Very heart breaking and real! The other two books were not as good, more than likely because they incorporated fiction in to them.
You can almost hear the author’s powerful voice throughout the whole novel, and it takes you to the darkest places to witness people live and suffer while the whole world chose to close its eyes.
And yet this boy clung to life not so much for himself, but for his father, refusing to give up on the dying man even when the man himself couldn’t carry on anymore.The other two parts of this trilogy are novels, both dealing with “the life after,” when the protagonist tried to analyze the horrific effect that the Holocaust had on his and many other lives, and how it shaped him into what he is now.
no es lo mismo.El mejor de los tres es el primero "La noche", al que le di cinco estrellas (pese a que, por concepto, creo que una historia real como esa es difícil de "calificar").
En fin, que el concepto trilogía no me gustó particularmente: no corresponde, según yo, y además cada volumen se habría lucido mucho más si se hubiera explicado y distribuido por separado, pero igual el conjunto definitivamente va por sobre la media, y me gustó leerlo (dentro de lo que se disfruta leer cosas tan fuertes como estas).Lo que pasa es que me siento estafada cuando se venden novelas del holocausto como si fueran reales (en el caso de los tomos dos y tres)...
Dawn tells the story of Elisha, a Holocaust survivor.
One night, he is told he must execute a British officer at dawn.
The final novel, The Accident, is the fictional story of a Holocaust survivor who is struck by a taxicab in New York City.
While recovering from his injuries, the character reflects on his relationships and experiences during the Second World War, coming to terms with his survival and the deaths of his family and friends.Simply but very movingly told, Wiesel raises difficult issues for in these novels and engages the reader in a conversation that will last the rest of his life.
This is a set of three books which have exactly two things in common:1.
They are all written by Elie Wiesel2.
They are all about Holocaust survivorsNight is an autobiographical account of Wiesel's experience in the Nazi concentration camp, which I highly recommend to all readers.Dawn is a troubling story about a Holocaust survivor who turns terrorist in British ruled Palestine.
Day is about a man who tries to appear normal an unaffected by his experience in the concentration camp, though he is haunted by his memories and experiences there.I don't mind that these books are combined and sold together in one volume, but calling it a trilogy is something of a farce; it is simply a way to sell more books by applying the well known title of Night to all three books.
This is a collection of three novels- the first autobiographical, the second and third with elements of autobiography that lend realism to their traumatic plots.I think the thing that impressed me most about this was how clearly it showed what witnessing and experiencing the horrors of a concentration camp at an early age did to the author.
Only the memories of his dead relatives survive to haunt him.He has a very clear picture of his crippled soul and apologizes for nothing.There is a lot that is poignant about his work, and much that is unsettling.
After the first couple pages of Dawn I quickly turned to the back of the book an learned that Dawn and The Accident are NOT true accounts of Elie's life even though Night is.
They didn't seem to have as much as an impact on me as the holocaust should have.
All of them are very short reads and do not give the reader a thorough understanding of what really happened during the holocaust or what really went on in the lives of the characters after Night.
So disappointing I could not even bring myself to finish the book which I normally would never ever allow.
To be honest, my review may be a little bias because I initially thought the entire trilogy is a non-fiction memoir. I enjoyed the first part, "Night", but was disappointed to find out that the next two parts "Dawn" and "Day" are fiction. I found the latter very draggy and abstract. However, I think it's very subjective, whether the book is appealing or not. It's either you will enjoy it thoroughly, or you won't. If you are a fan of pure non-fiction and want to read a memoir on the holocaust, I suggest you get the "Night" book alone.
This book....! So far I have read Night and I'm working on dawn. This book shows the bonds that people had before and during the concentration camps, and this book also shows the bond that broke. I would recommend this book to people who are willing to learn about life in concentration camps and survival inside them. There is a ton of plot twists and suspense. To conclude this was an awesome book and I really enjoyed it.
Ms moller I hope this is ok so I enjoyed this book. And it really made me think a couple parts really hit me hard. I enjoyed it so much that I want to read the series. Thats big coming from me considering I dont like to read at all I recommend it to freshman and up.
This book is an incredible story of survival and rebirth. Just amazing. I cannot imagine experiencing some (or any) of the things inside these short stories/memoirs. This should be required reading for all.
(5 stars just for night, putting dawn and day in as separate books)
The first book I found to be the most interesting; it was a detailed first person account of the author’s experience of the Holocaust and his time in concentration camps, all while fighting to live.
By doing so, Wiesel transports the reader to the scenes in his book, making them feel like they are sitting next to young Eli in the concentration camp feeling the cold, or laying in the hospital bed, struggling to live.
The second and third books, Day and Dawn, certainly did not lack descriptive writing, but caused a problem with understanding due to the plot at times.
