https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7607918-yayati
This New Year, I promised myself that I would first finish all the pending books before starting something new and so I began this one and I have to say that I was amazed by it.In a nutshell, this is a story of Yayati, the King of Hastinapur, and his insatiable lust for women.
Don’t get me wrong, this repentance is not necessarily religious but more of a spiritual kind, where you accept the rights and wrongs that humans as themselves have committed to both their own person as well as others and when this repentance is strong then according to the tale of Yayati, there is no stopping you from living life in a healthy and happy manner.Friendship is another motif that is strongly present in this narrative.
This is the sad part about reading "Mrutyunjay"! you just don't seem to like any other Marathi kadambari as much.! :(
This has been a book seeking my attention for almost a couple of years due to its title and mythological connection.And how I loved unwrapping this sub-story from Mahaharata - even as a stand alone tale.Lots of food for thought.
[What Sharmishtha's father does here in this tale...
etc etc ] There are countless examples of this which is quite understandable.
But what I don't understand is the lack of a counter-example wherein someone stood up against this!
Yayati is a sparkling jewel in Marathi's crown. मराठीतला अतयंत अमुलय ठेवा . परतयेकाने एकदा तरी वाचावी अशी सुंदर कादंबरी. कचाचे संवाद आणि विचार मन मोहवून टाकतात तयाच वेळी अंतरमुख सुदधा करतात. परेम महणजे नककी काय हे याचे नितांत सुंदर वरणन आहे. शरमिषठेचे निषपाप परेम अपरतिम आहे. मानवाचया मनातील भौतिक सुखांचया ओढीचे परतिक महणजेच ययाती. An excellent pick to satisfy the devouring quench for classics.
Yayati is a sparkling jewel in Marathi's crown. मराठीतला अत्यंत अमुल्य ठेवा . प्रत्येकाने एकदा तरी वाचावी अशी सुंदर कादंबरी. कचाचे संवाद आणि विचार मन मोहवून टाकतात त्याच वेळी अंतर्मुख सुद्धा करतात. प्रेम म्हणजे नक्की काय हे याचे नितांत सुंदर वर्णन आहे. शर्मिष्ठेचे निष्पाप प्रेम अप्रतिम आहे. मानवाच्या मनातील भौतिक सुखांच्या ओढीचे प्रतिक म्हणजेच ययाती. An excellent pick to satisfy the devouring quench for classics.
So when I picked this book, I had high hopes and maybe an expectation of characters with hues of moral conflicts.
Yayati was a book I almost shelved at 25% after it pulled me down almost a year ago.
I picked it up again after reading a blog of Devdutt Patnaik that talked of Yayati complex.
He too talks in long sentences that are too preachy.As it turns out, I could not feel sorry for any of the characters.
And then after all the years of sufferings, they just seem to fall-out of the character and turn a new leaf.
Yayati....a different type of loves described so beautifully!!! Yayati's selfish love,Devayani's ego filled love n Sharnishtha's unconditional love.Three different people's lives n views.Most beautifully potraited complicated relations.Every character will carry bad n good qualities,there is space for each character that is what i liked most.
ജീവനുളള പുസതകം. ഒരു പകഷെ മലയാളതതിലെ എററവും മികചച തർജജമ. ഇത മലയാളം പുസതകമലല എനന വിശവസികകാൻ പരയാസം! It's a magical book. Recommended to everyone who loves to read sensible fictions. Special appreciation to P Madhavan Pillai, who translated to Malayalam. Without any doubt, this is THE finest translation work Malayalam had ever seen.
ജീവനുള്ള പുസ്തകം. ഒരു പക്ഷെ മലയാളത്തിലെ എറ്റവും മികച്ച തർജ്ജമ. ഇത് മലയാളം പുസ്തകമല്ല എന്ന് വിശ്വസിക്കാൻ പ്രയാസം! It's a magical book. Recommended to everyone who loves to read sensible fictions. Special appreciation to P Madhavan Pillai, who translated to Malayalam. Without any doubt, this is THE finest translation work Malayalam had ever seen.
This was my summer-holiday read, & oh gosh, did it take up a lot of time!
I'm sure I missed out a lot by reading the English translation instead of the original Marathi version, hence my review is solely based on the book I read.
Khandekar informs the average Indian reader about the myth of Yayati, & then embarks upon his re-telling of the same.
His chapter divisions are based upon the psychological make-up of each character.
Khandekar appeases the women readers by contrasting Yayati with Kacha.
The thoughts and emotions of each character make for quite complex reading, with one having to re-read a chapter several times.
Indian Mythology is full of great stories. Yayati is one such tale-very interesting and thoroughly absorbing. Each character has shades and depth and that's what makes the story very profound. This book has been told by its characters in the first person. This is one of those books that keeps you thinking even after the book gets over.
Lust, which is a no-spoken word today giving examples of our culture. mythologies and sculptures are filled with references and this book has taken an open approach to address them. King Yayati, Devayani, Sharmishtha and Kacha have played their roles well with the writer doing justice to the prelude of the great epic. Indians are good in story telling and there should be more bold attempts to view our culture the way it is. An engrossing read.
अभीमान वाटावा अशिच ....
I read this book by reading many reviews on net about it. But when I finished it, I found it not upto the mark as that of Mrityunjaya and Panipat.
A classic tale of Lust - how potent a title.
I'm not sure why its called a tale of lust.
Perhaps because the 18 years of cup brimming with "happiness".
To me its a tale of domestic.
It's a tale of shades of love.
Its a tale which without cliché royalty aspect would be a tale that is very common now a days!
The different voices gives depth to varied emotions.
How jealousy and anger can disrupt life; how being selfless gives strength to walk through difficult paths; how one's life depends their hands.
I like books on Indian mythology, but this does not fall in that genre.
Only the characters have been picked from there, and the storyline has been modified.It took me a while to understand the purpose of this book (for me).
And to strengthen his point, he picked a story from mythology that covers and portrays all these aspects beautifully.The storytelling is superb, with characters you can totally relate to.
can't give it five stars as the story is quite different from the mythological version, especially the intent behind the actions and events.PS: I would have loved reading a Hindi translation of this book.
A superb book! I loved reading every page of it! A very balanced book with respect to all the characters in the story! The story of Yayati has always intrigued me and this one even though a fiction answers a whole lot of questions I had about it.
अनुपरास और रूपक अलंकारों से गूंदी हुई यह पाठमाला हसतिनापुर के राजा ययाति के जीवन को बहुत विसतृत रूप में दरशाती है और केवल जीवन पतन नहीं, परंतु नैतिक मूलयों को भी मनुषय के जीवन से जोड़ कर, एक उतकृषट उदाहरण देती है।लेखक शरी विषणु खांडेकर इस रचना के लिए जञानपीठ पुरुसकार से अलंकृत हुए एवम वह परथम मराठी लेखक हुए जिनहोंने यह सिदधि परापत की।
अनुप्रास और रूपक अलंकारों से गूंदी हुई यह पाठमाला हस्तिनापुर के राजा ययाति के जीवन को बहुत विस्तृत रूप में दर्शाती है और केवल जीवन पतन नहीं, परंतु नैतिक मूल्यों को भी मनुष्य के जीवन से जोड़ कर, एक उत्कृष्ट उदाहरण देती है।लेखक श्री विष्णु खांडेकर इस रचना के लिए ज्ञानपीठ पुरुस्कार से अलंकृत हुए एवम् वह प्रथम मराठी लेखक हुए जिन्होंने यह सिद्धि प्राप्त की।
One of my favorite story addicted story like Harry Potter and game of thrones
I would say that it's a fresh read rather than a nice or good read.Fresh because we get a whole new perspective of some real characters from someone else' point of view in a fictional way.Many thanks to Mr. Khandekar for mentioning this upfront.Also, my review might be biased by the fact that I have read the translated English version of the novel which could have been different had I read the actual Marathi version.The views about all the confusions and complicacies of life as described, even though from the mouth of different characters of the story, are in actual the author's words and one would get completely absorbed in this.
This is book is fairly old piece as it was written 7 decades ago(I reckon), and yet, it could be related by every man and his life.
The story is a vicarious account of what a young man(King Yayati) feels about life, of his endless desire of pleasure, his unrequited love, his insular might, of how he treads into indulgence and how he wonders if his life has any purpose other than to pacify his libido.
But overall this book is a page turner and not boring at all.
A tale of love and lust.
Great work of fiction.
Although the author has departed from the original story of Yayati as given in Mahabharata and Puranas, but he makes it clear at the outset that it is a work of fiction and only the names of characters have been taken from Mahabharata.Through this enchanting book, the author gives his perspective on various philosophical things like love and lust, life and death, good and evil etc.
He finally concludes that the best way to live happily and satisfactorily is that to follow the medium way and not to go to the extremes i.e. neither the extreme detachment as preached by the Hindi philosophy nor the epicurean approach as followed in the west.
The book revolves around the King of Hastinapur whose lust drives his life. Suffering from the curse that his father, King Nahusha, got from a sage. Yayati meets Alaka, Mukulika, Devayani & Sharamistha in his life. Always yearning for more physical pleasures he forgets his duties and lets the world suffer.I would recommend it as a read.
Since childhood, the epic Mahabharata, has very much interested me.For its characters, if they say its an imagination, then its indeed unbeatable, match less.Each of them is a story by itself, reflecting vivid human colors. The best part of it is, none of them, I feel, is a philosophy.They are so true and will persist forever."Yayati" is a great tale. A worth read !!!
Story - First half of the novel is much better than the second half. I kept hoping that the main character will rise to the call of his duty, but he doesn't. He keeps taking one foolish decision after another.Writing style is really good. Some lines were worth pondering upon!
Yayati by V. S. Khandekar is a masterpiece. One of the best Marathi novel i've ever read! Beautifully narrated. It presents unconquerable and greatest power of love wins the battle of life. Realised significance of Dnyanpeeth after reading this book.
I read the original in Marathi and this is a mind blowing book with extra superb use of the language.
Ranked to top of my list... now got meaning of Jnyanpith... n will read it again n again....
This is a real gem. what an imagination. book makes you crave for reading until end. I am 101% satisfied with the plot and execution and narration.
Detailed Review here http://www.anureviews.com/yayati-a-cl...
Worth 7 *******
One of the classic Marathi novel. Yayati is the first Marathi novel to win 'Dyanpith Purskar', India's highest literary award.
