https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84151.Night_Play
I'm not feeling it right now. The book is cute but insta love is not my jam. Vane is hot though. I'm picturing him as Derek Hale. (view spoiler)[Here's what went wrong:The main characters have sex in the first chapter. That's my biggest pet peeve. Couldn't they at least have waited till the 7th chapter?Insta love/lust. Not a fan. (hide spoiler)]The hero is some sort of hybrid shapeshifter. He was born a wolf. This is why I was Team Edward. I'm not into bestiality. That is all.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
'Welcome to my family, you now get to sleep with all my brothers, and I do mean all my brothers, cousins, friends, hell, everyone?' You know, most in-laws just bring over a casserole, not a four-hundred-year-old vendetta." The star of this book is definetely chubby and with a great sense of humour Bride.
After she is abandoned by her bastard boyfriend; she discovers a world where the monsters are true and part of her reality.
Her best friends, her customers, her wannabe new boyfriend are hiding secrets.
Bride will discover them one by one and thankfully she will be very receptive.
Well, all I can see about this book is how everyone loved it. I guess my expectations were high because of that, and for me, the book didn't deliver I know most PNR come with insta-love, and I am prepared for it, but here, I just didn't buy the whole thing at all. Maybe it was because it wasn't insta-love, but insta-lust (as it also usually is), but the characters meet and have sex in the same scene (the first 10% of the book   )That killed the book for me, and the other 90% I just got through
Maybe it was because it wasn't insta-love, but insta-lust (as it also usually is), but the characters meet and have sex in the same scene (the first 10% of the book 
I actually like reading about women who have meat on the bones, not just skin, it's normal and more realistic and makes them more human, I don't know, I just wish she didn't have all those giant complexes, if only she was GOOD with herself for having more weight, that would be even better, but this, it just got on my nerves to constantly see her thinking so horribly about herself 
My favorite of the series. I love when animals try to "human". Vane is a werewolf that is asking for dating advice from Dark Hunters. Not exactly the best source: "Julian, how did you meet your wife?"Julian shrugged. "My brother the sex god cursed me into a book for two thousand years. Grace got drunk on her birthday and summoned me out of it."Vane rolled his eyes. "That's useless. Kyrian? What about you?""I woke up handcuffed to Amanda."Vane could work with that. "So I need to get a set of hand
Vane is a werewolf that is asking for dating advice from Dark Hunters.
Now, that sounds like an interesting first date!Vane is adorably charming in this book.
As usual, Ash and Simi are great side characters.
I love Simi's reaction when there is an engagement:
"Akri, the Simi wants someone to propose like that to her.
A little bbq sauce and he's pretty yummy...I also loved Vane's brothers, Fang and Fury.
The world continues to build, the characters start to feel like family, and they don't have to make-up new villains for each book because the villains will always be there.
And that's what makes one fall for him and this book too.After years of verbal abuse by her ex, Bride's ready for some attention like Vane dishes out, even though she can hardly believe she deserves it.There is a scene where Vane asks her to meet him at her favorite restaurant- the one which the ex never took her too because he didn't want to be seen with her, unfortunately when she arrives Vane is nowhere to be found and reservations have not been made.
The first part was too unbelievable, (Vane and Bride get it on a little to early in the story AND c'mon he's just too sexy to be believed.)But feeling like an idiot because you actually felt good about yourself for awhile only to be knocked back down into the crab pot of life once again?
"There's something inside you that scares me, Vane. Are you sure you're normal?"   Vane's character looked so promising in the previous books, but in his own book he disappointed me. I understand his unwillingness to force Bride into anything, as “claiming can never be forced on a female", but his doubts and uncertainties are exaggerated.His magical powers are impressive: they are unique and superlative, but sadly there is no real action in the story where he can actually show how powerful he
Okay, I get it, he is gorgeous...I really appreciate Bride's appearance - finally a pretty and hot heroine with curves.
The rescue, by the way, was quick and effortless.I was okay with the story up to the scene where Bride’s standing up for Vane which is one of the best scenes of the book.
But, at the end, two things totally ruined the book for me: the over-romanticized singing to Bride, and the public love confession and engagement.And although I love Simi, and Ash’s kind and patient attitude toward her is amazing, the (view spoiler)[Macarena dance (hide spoiler)] was too much for me.
When Sherrilyn Kenyon is “up”, she can write a very good story, and Night Play was definitely an “up” book for me.
It had the swoon-worthy romance that I've loved in some of Ms. Kenyon's other books, lots of fun and interesting characters, and a good plot.
Night Play picks up the narrative of Were-Hunter Vane Kattalakis right where book #2 of the series, Night Embrace, had left him.
Things got off to a steamy start right in chapter one with a hot love scene between Vane and Bride.
Night Play is book #5 in the Dark-Hunter series.
Not that it matters really, although I would have preferred to do it in the reading order.This is the first book that introduces the were-hunters and written from their POV…..And what a great introduction……….beginning with Vane Katallakis, were-wof “supremo”… 
In between keeping his family safe from his enemies and having only three weeks to persuade Bride that he’s the one for her….does his friend’s advice work for him….who would ever guess that Vane could be such a fast learner…sexy, hot, seductive, caring, loving….Let’s just say that Bride could not resist this knight in shining armor!!!The dialogue is such a pleasure…humor, laughter….the interaction between the characters is totally fabulous.I loved that the author includes some characters that I have come to adore….my favorite….Simi!!!!
I have read (or listened to) a handful of books in this series and some were ok and others a little better.
(She wolves sound like real bitches!) He comes from a seriously messed up childhood - or I guess really puppyhood.
They rival Acheron.The heroine, Bride (BTW a big pet peeve of mine is when a narrator pronounces a name wrong and in this case, I had to listen to the entire book with him calling her bride - as in here comes the...
Lost my train of thought - so anyway, Bride was a pretty good heroine.

Dark Hunter Flashcard #5, Were Hunter Flashcard #1Name: Vane Kattalakis Age: 460The Beast Within: WolfSpecial W.H. power: Time TravelBest thing that came out of his mouth : I don't want you skinny, Bride.
He finds his one true love when: She stopped to say hi to her friend Sunshine who Vane was guarding at the time.
Size: 18Occupation: Boutique Owner.Best thing that came out of her mouth : Don’t you like my wolf?She falls for him because: Do you want the reasons in alphabetical order, or..?Ok, let’s see.
But mostly because he is gorgeous and he has a killer bod.
Esta serie no va a tener ningún libro por debajo de las 4 estrellas como lleve este ritmo.Y este libro va para las 5 estrellitas por el simple hecho de que para mí ha sido un libro redondo.
No solo me he divertido como con ningún otro, sino que todos y cada uno de los personajes han sido inolvidables, sobre todo Vane.
Además, tendremos unas historias secundarias bastante interesantes y un enemigo totalmente nuevo, ya que en esta ocasión no son Damons los que amenazan la vida de Brie y Vane, sino la familia de éste.
But when Anya was killed and Fang was badly injured in the Daimons attack, Vane felt like all the happiness was gone from his world… until he met Bride, the beautiful woman he had thought he would never see again.Bride was the human woman who got dumped by her boyfriend via letter because he thought she wasn’t good enough for him.
Bride didn’t know what it was but Vane knew immediately that he had only three weeks to claim Bride as his mate.
I loved both Vane and Bride.
Vane wasn't human.
I need to say it again--I loved everything about this book!
Another perfect hero. Vane was so sweet and loving. Alphas who go after what they want and don't waver are really my weakness. So many different storyline possibilities here. I will definitely be checking out more in the were-hunter series.
:)...Let's see if I can sum this up for people who do not know Kenyon's world: werewolf named Vane with a death sentence on his head falls in love with a beautiful fat woman named Bride.
Kenyon has before created heroines who berate themselves for being chubby but are obviously not even close (something which annoys me to no end), but she finally creates an ACTUAL fat heroine in this novel with Bride, who is a solid size 18.There were things I LOVED and things I HATED about how Bride and her weight were handled.LOVED: - Vane is completely smitten with her, and very sexually attracted to her.
Oh yaradana çok şükür kaçtır şöyle güzel bir kurt adam okumak istiyordum ama bulamamıştım, bulduklarıma da korkuyla bakmaktan başlayamamıştım şu an mutluyum.
Bu arada kitapta Ash’i kucağında bi bebişle hayal etme şansını bize sunan Sherrilyn’i alnından öpüyorum canımsın.Ash’in kitabı sanırım 14.
Asla ama asla o seks ile başlattığınız aşk hikayeleri samimi olmayacak benim için.Kitap bunun harici çok güzel, neyse ki Sherrilyn’in duyguları yansıtmada harika bi yeteneği var çünkü okurken bir gram şüphe etmedim Vane’in Bride’a karşı duyduğu koruma içgüdüsü, mate ilişkisi işte her ne şeysinden.
Bir de ben şu mate olayına bayılıyorum, ne alaka bilmem.
Vane mükemmel bi adam bu arada.
All in all, this book left me very content, I even enjoyed how all the other characters from the previous books came together & proved they'll always be there for one another no matter what evil Hermits are out there lying around waiting to end lives.These Hellions will always be around to save the greater good!My review goes out to my wonderful friends here on GR, who have kept me wanting to continue on reading and kept me company through out these few books, you ladies are awesome!!!My many thanks goes out to Camila aka Bookwatcher & Ronda Tutt for gifting me this series, if it weren't for them I probably would never have read them, just because the thought of all those books made me a little nervous, I kept telling myself " Nah!
Mitad lobo, mitad humano ha perdido a sus seres queridos por ayudar a los cazadores oscuros y ahora su clan lo persigue para acabar con él.Esta novela me ha conquistado por muchas cosas pero sobre todo por traernos al personajes de Bride, ella es una mujer de lo más normal, una protagonista real, con un aspecto alejado de lo que nos solemos encontrar en este mundo.
She is self conscious about her looks because she is heavier than the average woman.Vane had seen Bride a few weeks back, when she stopped by Sunshine Runningwolf's art stand in New Orleans.
Both think that is the last they will see of each other...I really liked this story.
Kenyon adds in quite a few of the other characters from her previous Dark Hunter novels.
I think that’s why I love reading series so much, is the connecting characters.
I love Simi too!
I am rooting for Ash to let Simi eat the 'red headed bitch goddess' someday.
4.25 starsSo this is my third attempt at a Kenyon book (and this series) and I am still not 100% sure her writing style really works for me.
He was basically an all-around cool character.--the romantic scenes between Bride and Vane.
They were sweet and sexy, just the way I like them.What didn't quite work for me:--Kenyon's writing style.
I read/skimmed book 2 and Valerius was a character who i strongly disliked.
But his superiority and the way he treated and talked to Zarek (the MC for book 3) was just revolting to me.
Una chica cuya autoestima se vio seriamente dañada gracias a un tipejo, de esos que no merecen ser llamados hombres ¬¬ Lo odio ¬¬En fin, regresando al punto...
Bride es una mujer curvilínea-curvilínea.
Tiene una familia que la adora.
Vane.No, no pienso decir lo que ya todas sabemos de los hombres que Sherrilyn crea.
Nuestro lobo está huyendo de su manada, por tanto, una mujer es lo que menos necesita; pero Bride es diferente y se siente atraído desde la primera vez que la ve.
Y no de la buena, que esa ni existe, jejeje.Como es lógico, las novelas de los cazadores no es todo sobre las parejas principales.
Es el primer libro que leí de la saga y siempre he tenido una conexión especial con esta historia ^^
He’s a dream!Of course, the best thing about this book is the fact that he loves bigger women.
Bride isn’t comfortable about her appearance so she does all that she can to steer attention away from herself, but all of that does nothing to make Vane look the other way.
In fact, the way he sees her is the thing that got me.
Vane sees Bride’s beauty and never lets her forget it.
I decided to pick up this book and read a few pages.
Then she goes on to introduce Vane in the opening scene.
I would have definitely rated it 3.5 if the female protagonist’s name wasn’t - Bride.
And I do pity Vane) Yet, another combination  Sherrilyn has chosen for this story - Were – Hunter(*yes he can turn in to Wolf if not what’s the point?!) and Human(*for a change) fated to be together and teased by Acheron continuosly!
And of course once again,Greek Gods + Vampires + Daimons + Were-Wolves + Dark Hunters + Insignificant Humans blabbering + Of course Captivating dry humour = The whole book!
Concept: 2.5/5.0Execution: 2.75/5.0 Characters Bespoken: 3.0 /5.0Cover: 2.75/5.0Overall: 3.0/5.0As for Vane and Bride:P.S.: This cheesy trashy stuff is too darn addictive!
I didn't like it. The writing was too fast and the plot faulty. Bride was getting on my nerves. Though I would like to know what's going to happen in Fury and Fang's story, I won't be continuing this series. If I happen to change my mind, shoot me.
That is, you would be if you're referencing Sherrilyn Kenyon's book, Night Play.So, a plus sized heroine who is sweet, kind, giving, and a beautiful human being is pretty much the definition of OH YES-GOD, PERFECT HEROINE for any leading lady.
Mr. Adorabs-Level-High Kattalakis is probably one of the most beautiful heroes ever written, and not because his face is gloriously divine, and not because he falls for a plus sized woman, but because his love for those he cares about is so quintessentially a defining aspect to his character.
Their relationship is inspiring and I found myself holding my breath as I read through wonderfully intimate (sexual and non-sexual) scenes.Vane is a wolf.
Just imagine being dumped with your own pennies.Angry and crying as she cleaned her store, Vane walked by and *drum roll* his heart stopped at the sight of her.
There isn’t a whole ton of what ifs during the foundation stage.She couldn’t imagine this guy having trouble getting any woman he wanted.
This book will not disappoint!Line of the book:The only way to have eternal love is to never let your heart forget what it’s like to live without it.~Happy reading!
Different from the other Dark-Hunter novels.
How this differs from the DH novels: No serious big bad or end of the world problems.
Vane does have people after him, but it's not an all consuming problem.
The main point of the story is Vane winning/wooing Bride.
Vane re-encounters her the day she's dumped & comforts her.
They begin dating, sort of, and the rest of the story is their relationship, Vane dealing with family problems, & trying to figure out how to tell Bride he's a werewolf...or if he should leave her out of his supernatural world.
3,5/3Seriye kurt-adam molasıııııı.Yarı Katagaria yarı Arcadian olan Vane çiftleşmek için bir insan kadınıyla eşleşiyor bu kitapta.Benim harika Julian’ım ve Karanlık Avcıları’mın hele hele Zarek'imin ardından beni yeterli oranda heyecanlandırmasa da güzel bir kitaptı. Wait!” she said as he touched the knob. “You left your necklace.”Vane looked back at her one last time, knowing he would never see her again. She was so beautiful there with large, amber eyes set in the pale face of a goddess. There
3,5/3Seriye kurt-adam molasıııııı.Yarı Katagaria yarı Arcadian olan Vane çiftleşmek için bir insan kadınıyla eşleşiyor bu kitapta.Benim harika Julian’ım ve Karanlık Avcıları’mın hele hele Zarek'imin ardından beni yeterli oranda heyecanlandırmasa da güzel bir kitaptı.
Wait!” she said as he touched the knob.
“You left your necklace.”Vane looked back at her one last time, knowing he would never see her again.
She was so beautiful there with large, amber eyes set in the pale face of a goddess.
She was ethereal and lovely.And far too fragile for an animal.“No,” he said quietly.
“I left it with the woman I wanted to have it.”
So after a long relationship of being told all these bad things about herself, she didn't really see herself as attractive and worthy of love from a good man.Vane Kattalakis was a man (well, a wolf really) who saw more than just the good in her.
He healed a lot of gaping wounds left by years of being told she was less than because she wasn't our society's ideal.Of course, there are hot scenes throughout the entire book, and the description of Vane makes me a little breathless.
Vane is the hunter that touched me the most, and his mate was a woman I really liked too.
