https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6489513-the-statement-of-randolph-carter
This early story—written in 1919, published in the amateur journal The Vagrant in 1920—is a simple but thoroughly effective tale of terror, based on one of Lovecraft’s dreams.
but the rest you must discover for yourself.Yes, this is a simple story, but it scared me the first time I read it, and it scares me now just thinking about it.
It would take Lovecraft ten years to discover how to localize, anticipate, and prolong a good shock of terror, but The Statement of Randolph Carter shows us that, even in his earliest stories, he had mastered the art of delivering the a shock.
If you could see what I am seeing!”“Carter, it’s terrible—monstrous—unbelievable!”“I can’t tell you, Carter!
It’s too utterly beyond thought!"I'm reading Carter & Lovecraft, in which the main character is a descendent of the guy in this story, so I thought I should pause and read something about him, but this story doesn't add much to the recent novel.
However, there are some references in C&L to the continuing Randolph Carter stories set in the Dreamlands, so I guess on to those.
After the completely different Lovecraft-western pastiche of Weird Trails: The Magazine of Supernatural Cowboy Stories.
The Statement of Randolph Carter is a short story where Carter speaks of his dreadful experience in Big Cypress Swamp.
He went there with his friend.
They found him wandering with no knowledge of Harley Warren's whereabouts.
The last time he saw Harley was before he entered an underground crypt.
He never came out.
Him he visited, living with him and sharing his studies for seven years, till horror overtook them one midnight in an unknown and archaic graveyard, and only one emerged where two had entered.'
This story fed my hunger for horror drama.
It reads like a Hitchcock or Twilight Zone show.
A man's ambition leads him to walk toward the center of the earth while talking to the narrator through a telephone with a long wire.
The narrator hears ghastly noises and Mr. Carter urges him to leave.
The end will make you feel like bugs burrow into your pores.I found a description of a voice powerful and terrifying.
He used the word "gelatinous" which makes me think of a phlegm infested throat and the hearing of those vibrations.
Awesome read, and short, maybe twenty minutes.
Lo he escuchado a través de un audio libro gratuitamente en Google Libros y me ha gustado bastante. La narración fue increíble y realmente sentía el pavor en su voz cuando narraba los hechos terroríficos que le habían pasado al compañero del narrador. Y eso fue justamente lo que me transmitió. Terror, horror, se me palpitaba el corazón. Cosa que aveces leyendo no se siente esas emociones. Aunque el libro también te las da; sólo que el audio las incrementa. Ha sido mi primer audiolibro y me ha encantado la experiencia.
Un relato Magistral, más aun si tenemos en cuenta la brevedad del mismo, ya que son poco más de 2000 palabras, que todo admirador de lo fantástico, el terror y la ciencia ficción debería disfrutar.Una genialidad más que surgió para el disfrute de todos de la privilegiada mente de H.P.Lovecraft, el maestro del terror y lo fantástico.Sin duda un relato que nos pondrá los pelos de punta, más aun si tenemos en cuenta que fue escrito en el Siglo XVIII.RESEÑA COMPLETA: https://entrelibrosytintas.blogspot.c...
Relato en los inicios de Lovecraft considerado parte de los Mitos de Cthulhu sin ser uno de los canónicos.
Relato muy cortito pero no por ello menos inquietante.
Está lejos de ser lo mejor del autor pero se le reconoce perfectamente.
Cuenta la horrorosa desaparición de Harley Warren a través de la declaración de su acompañante Randolph Carter, que se encuentra absolutamente horrorizado por las extrañas circunstancias en las que escuchó desaparecer a su amigo.
Yo, al igual que el señor Carter, espero que Harley Warren "haya encontrado la paz y el olvido definitivos, si es que existen en alguna parte."
Pra que infernizar àqueles que estão quietos no inferno? ..Um conto cheio de horror e terror contado pelo mestre H.P Lovecraft
You shouldn't explore mortuaries in the middle of the night... Warren's crazy, maybe he's got a Necromonicon book...I love how Warren dies especially because of the mysticism which Lovecraft uses at the end to describe the dead scene... or the noises...Remember don't wake up anything you can't stop...
Quite a short tale of a man journeying into the depths of the earth and the horror he finds there.
So cool!! Good creepy fun! Listened on audible. Full review to follow.
Lovecraft knew that the secret to a good horror story was to leave the right things out, letting your imagination do the rest. It's a style that has perdured until today, and for good reason.The Statement of Randolph Carter is standard Lovecraft, with creepy imagery that is only precise enough, and a mentally unstable narrator that drops clues slowly and unaware, allowing for Lovecraft's eerie writing style to take over.
**Leído para el Club de Lectura**Para la segunda entrega del Club de Lectura le tocó a Gloria elegir el libro, y se decidió por una selección de cuentos de Lovecraft.Estoy casi segura de que ya había leído este cuento hace mucho. Es muy corto pero resume a la perfeccion el tipo de historias de Lovecraft que más me gustan, por más que la frase final sea un poco ridícula.
"Les repito que no sé qué ha sido de Harley Warren, aunque pienso -y casi espero- que ya disfruta de la paz del olvido, si es que semejante bendición existe en alguna parte." No esta cerca de ser la mejor historia de Lovecraft, pero la voz de Carter va dando tantos matices que logras sentir su temor y desesperación.
Una amiga ya me había contado la historia de este cuento, y cuando estaba en la mitad de la lectura recordé el final. Igual lo disfruté, hasta ahora es el que más me gustó de los cuentos designados para el Club de Lectura.No pierde tiempo en describir detalles que a nadie le importan y se crea un clima de suspenso hasta el final. Ojalá haya más como este!
The essence of Lovecraft's unseen, maddening horrors - the theme that time and again has made us shiver and imagine terrible, unearthly, unknowable things.I love these stories. Incredibly simple, minimal in detail - and it all clicks so well.
“I can’t tell you, Carter!
It’s too utterly beyond thought—I dare not tell you—no man could know it and live—Great God!
I never dreamed of THIS!”A short horror story starring a young Randolph Carter, and his ill-fated friend, Warren Harley.
Warren, being wise and experienced in these things, decides that Carter must remain above, while he descends into the dark vault, trailing a long telephone wire behind him.
Warren, of course...well, you know, words simply cannot describe what he experienced.
Warren, of course...meets his doom.
And Carter gets told off.I'm looking forward to Through the Gates of the Silver Key.
Если это уже звучит достаточно глупецки, то представить боюсь, что будет по освоении бигбуковского трехтомника.
Точно буду в любви признаваться.«Показания» – это отложенное знакомство с Картером, которое наконец потихоньку догоняет меня.
О том, что случилось с другом Картера, пояснений не дается, и подобная сюжетная незавершенность невольно заставляет прокручивать в голове всю историю в попытке найти ниточки, за которые можно уцепиться.
Это мастерство, перед которым я могу только преклоняться.
И отдельный плюс за концовку, за этот простой как пробка ход, от которого невольно идут мурашки по телу, хотя головой понимаешь, что бояться нечего.
This is a very short story, but Lovecraft packs it with tension and it has a finale which is chilling in the extreme.Despite being almost 100 years old, this tale feels fresh and alive. The venture the protagonists set out on is never fully spelt out, and the narrator seems unsure of its purpose.From there the suspense is slowly racked up, with the horror taking place never fully named, leaving the readers imagination to fill the gaps.
Preciso y efectivo. Uno de los cuentos que más me gustaron de los que había que leer de Lovecraft para el Club de lectura. No delira con cosas sobre naturales, y si lo hace, uno está inclinado a pensar que son resultado de la imagianción y alucinaciones de Carter. El final era esperable, pero me encantó como está escrito. Y también me encantó la "charla" telefónica.
Este cuento lo tuve que leer por el colegio. Me gustó bastante la verdad, tanto que me gustaría seguir leyendo otras historias del escritor. La mejor parte claramente es la llamada telefónica, como que estaba super expectante mientras leía eso.
i love this tale, because it was the first tale i read of lovecraft, i read him in a class, at school, it was the book of my best friend
If you have never read Lovecraft and you are interested, this is a good story to start with.
Its my top-pick as a good Lovecraft gateway story.
Lovecraft is hard to get in to and while I love many of his stories, and ideas, I will admit that many can be painful to read and there's quite a few "stinkers" that he has written.
I really hate to see new HPL readers start with one of the more "popular" stories from die-hard fans only to get completely turned off, by their dismal pace, overwritten prose, and dismal conclusions.
On every hand were the signs of neglect and decrepitude, and I seemed haunted by the notion that Warren and I were the first living creatures to invade a lethal silence of centuries.
Over the valley’s rim a wan, waning crescent moon peered through the noisome vapours that seemed to emanate from unheard-of catacombs, and by its feeble, wavering beams I could distinguish a repellent array of antique slabs, urns, cenotaphs, and mausolean facades; all crumbling, moss-grown, and moisture-stained, and partly concealed by the gross luxuriance of the unhealthy vegetation"
I read book 2 a while back.
Had no idea there was some sort of order, because there really isn't an order, but there is all at the same time.
Yes. But you can read any of the shorts that belong to this "series".
They tie in, but then they don't all at the same time.
Poor Randolph.
Poor Harley.
A quick read that did make me scared.
Ugh poor Harley the things he had to see.
In the end, if you even remotely like horror or thrillers you must read Lovecraft and some of his stuff!
First swamp story in the collection.
Let it be known that grave robbing (or maybe just grave disturbing?) + mysterious indecipherable books from Arabia and India = bad idea.
This one actually works, largely because of the tension provided by the improbable introduction of the telephone to the plot.
(Lovecraft probably could have done wonders with cellphones, horror-wise.) Also, (view spoiler)[the nameless terror at least talks, so that helps (hide spoiler)].
3*(Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept.
2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.
I remember this one really well.
Técnicamente fue un audio libro, debido a que quería experimentar este medio de lectura/audio y debo
Рендольф Картер прокидається у лікарні. Він запевняє, що не може згадати, що саме трапилося з ним і його приятелем Гарлі Уорреном. Їх давно цікавили потаємні знання, про які Картер навіть боїться розповідати. Події тієї ночі для нього наче в тумані. Вдвох вони прийшли на цвинтар і відкопали гробницю. Уоррен умовляв Картера залишитися на поверхні, бо у того слабка психіка і він може прото не пережити побачене. Уоррен спустився у гробницю і передавав звідти новини телефонним дротом, допоки не почав несамовито благати Картера полишити його внизу і тікати світ за очі.
A quick, easy, and worthwhile little read. It will take the average reader not much longer than ten to fifteen minutes to read, and yet it's still superior to most literature being presently published. It starts off a tad bit slow but soon Lovecraft kicks into high gear and goes wild, writing with poetic horror and a fierce, violent passion for the bizarre and disturbing. My first Lovercraft and most definitely not my last!
“It is true that I have for five years been his closest friend, and a partial sharer of his terrible researches into the unknown“ Ah! When it starts like this, you can expect some of the best of Lovecraft where fringe science, archaeology of the deep (underground or unconscious) and the fantastic collide. But… as too often, too much is kept hidden from the reader.
