https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/291354.The_Ruby_Knight
When provoked, Sparhawk was not the most reasonable of men.The Ruby Knight is a direct continuation of The Elenium, picking up almost exactly where The Diamond Throne let off, so don’t let grass grow beneath your feet between books.
If he goes up against Sparhawk, he'll be drinking heavenly mead after the first pass."The religious theme can be quite funny, since it touches on a reality that many can likely identify with: even among religious folk, there are different levels of commitment.“You go with him, and if he tries to pray more than once a day, you have my permission to brain him.""That could have some interesting political ramifications, Your Majesty." "Lie about it.
:D This again takes the series in a different route to the previous book giving our characters plenty of opportunity to encounter new and strange lands on their quest!
:DThroughout there is much humour with little one-liners that you will often have to take a double look as you are reading along and they are thrown in so randomly that you barely registered on the first time until you see the other characters reactions and this makes for a much funnier road trip through the various lands which makes the perfect set for the action scenes which are end of the seat stuff!
Sure, I like some token fantasy books...but I never considered myself a hardcore fan.
(hide spoiler)] How anyone could read the ending of this book and not be crazed to get their hands on the next volume is beyond me.
The Ruby Knight picks up where its predecessor left off and doesn't let up for a single page of book.
There were moments where, like Sparhawk, I found myself wanting to rush forward, eager as can be, absolutely anxious that I get to the end so that we can see if things really work out.
Yet all the same I was drawn into the world of Sparhawk and company not five sentences in.As a narrative, it flows very smoothly from the first book to the second, beginning the narrative right where book one left off.The story is exciting and the writing filled with humour that had me chuckling very often.
While it would be nice to see a larger world than just the thinly veiled magical Europe presented, doing so would not aid the story in any way, shape or form.As a very quick comfort read, nothing can beat this series.
It's very fun, and Eddings had this talent for snappy dialog that's tough to beat.However after rereading it lately, it's like he tried a little TOO hard to make it clever.
They really are fun, but sometimes they take themselves a little too seriously.And as I said for the Diamond Throne: someone seriously needed to stop him from using the word "bleak" in every frigging chapter.
It's hilarious, I never noticed it before, but he was IN LOVE with that word, and it starts to become a game: How Many Pages Will Go By Before He Uses The Word 'Bleak' AGAIN.
I think that it's partially due to the fact that the characters are more familiar to the reader now, and the story becomes even more compelling as it advances.
Sprinkles of humour and compassion help to alleviate any tension or sorrowful turn of events that might crop up, and there's enough action throughout to keep the books at a steady pace.
The writing is clever and the characters are the type that immediately draw you in.
The story itself flowed seemlessly from the last book, and I'm looking forward to seeing how well this one flows into the next.
O final foi foda, me deixou com vontade de ler logo o terceiro.
Cada vez mais vidrado na escrita do Eddings... É impossível não amar Sparhawk, Sephrania, Flauta e os outros... Uma jornada clássica, mas com personagens muito cativantes e carismáticos. Estou muito ansioso pra ler The Sapphire Rose logo!
I thought this book was fairly enjoyable. The writing style is nice and simple so it was pretty easy to read through. The story is entertaining but I didn't think it was anything super amazing. I look forward to finishing the final book in the trilogy.
"The Ruby Knight" feels like Eddings was making a deliberate example of overusing a word (i.e., consciously failing to offer adequate diversity in vocabulary) so the audience could plainly see the consequences.
We read his work for the witty exchanges between characters, to thrill at the fantastic adventures we know our heroes will surely escape from and for that comfortable feeling we get when the bad guys finally receive their just desserts.To that end, "The Ruby Knight" is a splendid foray into genre fantasy.
At the end of the last novel, Sparhawk learned that Bhelliom, a powerful yet dangerous artifact, is the only item capable of curing young Queen Ehlana of the poison the Primate Annias fed to her.
Sparhawk and his companions become tied up, briefly, in one such altercation, started by none other than one of Sparhawk's most bitter rivals, Martel.If there's anything about these novels that gets to me at times, it is the banter between the characters - while it endears you to them, it can get old.
SO LONG AND DRAGGED OUT... AND SO. MUCH. DEBATING. I love and respect Mr. Eddings and all, but I never understood why all his books are like this. Hahaha. They're all twice as long as what they probably should be.Still, this story was pretty good. 8)
Sparhawk & friends are searching for the Bhelliom, the glowing blue item of this series, so they can save the poisoned Queen of Elenia & prevent Annias, who now has control of the Elenian treasury, from bribing his way into becoming Archechancellor of their faith.But it's been missing for 500 years and one of the multiple Elder Gods, Azash, wants to find it as well.
So Sparhawk & crew must follow old tales while dodging enemies sent by both Annias & by Azash.There is a good deal of action in this book as a result, plenty of fights & even more travel.
Ritrovarlo è l'unico modo per guarire la sovrana e mandare all'aria i piani del primate Annias, otre che impedire che cada nelle mani del terribile Dio Azash.Sparhawk e il colorito gruppo che già abbiamo incontrato nel primo libro, partono alla sua ricerca.
«Se facessi così, nel frattempo potrei anche diventare muto»""«A volte penso che la nobiltà sia comunque tutta una farsa.gli uomini sono uomini...con o senza titoli.
vi farò alcune domande e voi mi risponderete...a meno che non conosciate un modo per farvi spuntare le branchie»""Gli epiteti con cui Talen chiamò Sparhawk, Tel e i suoi uomini risuonarono per una buona distanza verso sud, e per la maggior parte erano tutti molto poco lusinghieri"http://my-empty-purse.blogspot.it/
Damn, I've loved this series since I was 10, and I think it's the 4th time I'm re-reading it, but I find myself annoyed by this particular book.
Why can't a god feel a major magical artefact where it's lost in the world?
(No matter how ridiculous that sounds lol)Then Bhelliom is discovered, and BOOM, they can feel it moving through the world!
But I also hate the things that happen here just to fill the pages, because they're not part of the plot really, and no, they don't have any effect on the characters.Here's to the first sound off of the year!
And I'm particularly disturbed by the women in the story (or the lack thereof.) It's like every woman is either a mother or a whore or completely deranged.
The hero, Sparhawk, is singularly virtuous as concerns the women, but the little girl he championed into her pre-teens is now becoming an object of desire.
I shouldn't be too peeved...you can see it coming even if the pairing of this older, very worldly warrior knight and the little girl he mentored is kinda creepy.Guess I can't really get into the characters.
I'm going to read three other books on my agenda before I finish the final book.
It's a stereotypical trope of fantasy to tell stories in trilogies, but not all stories need a trilogy to be told.Whereas the first book seemed to cram in as much information as possible, this one seems filled with pure filler.
There is nothing really new here, just excused to drag the story on until the third book.
The characters don't really develop any more, simply rehashing their stereotypical traits established in the first volume.
You could definitely skip this one and go on to the third book, and that is not a good thing.
David (& Leigh) Eddings is equal parts gateway drug and macaroni and cheese: it's basic fantasy, but so enjoyable, interesting if not astoundingly innovative, just fun, and it's just comfort food. I've re-read the Belgariad/Mallorean and the Elenium/Tamuli so many times since I originally devoured them in middle school. While I prefer the Belgariad, both series can just hit the spot.The Elenium/Tamuli involves more political and religious intrigue while also being more 'knightly' than the Belgariad/Mallorean.
The epic journey continues.....Loving that this book ends well without cliff hangers EVEN THOUGH its book 2 on a series.....As always wells written. Mostly the same characters we met in book 1 since we certainly had enough names to learn from book 1. I wouldn't suggest this book however if you haven't read book one. It is written more or less with the assumption that you have already read book 1. You would not understand some of the humour not be able to follow some of the plot if you haven't read book 1.Loved it!!!
David Eddings works his magic once again. Sparhawk and his companion troupe around the land in search of the one thing that will save his Queen. Will he finally make it. Along the way Eddings develops other charismatic characters and introduces more of his Church and of the different Gods that co-exist in this Universe. As bonus he leaves the reader at yet another cliffhanger. A must read!
I'm not going to write a review for all of the Eddings fantasy series I liked. So, the Elenium, Tamuli, Belgariad, and Mallorean were awesome. All excellent series. Read them.
Despite a really dark section in the middle of the book, this is Eddings at his finest.
Exciting, interesting. It'd help if David Eddings didn't write the same book over and over, though.
Review Soon™
He’s actually not a very nice man a lot of the time, and that makes me sad.JO:It is a bit sad isn’t it :( Sparhawk’s most common reaction seems to be violence, and the narrative and tone celebrates that part of him.TEHANI:Alex, you say “not a very nice man” but I never read it that way (and still don’t, I guess!) – he’s a product of his culture and his time.
Maybe it’s because Eddings has the space here to really get into the characters, and I love these characters so much that I enjoyed that to no end.TEHANI:It really does boggle me that even though I’ve read this several times, I still don’t get bored of this long questy-ride-alonging.
If there was ever a series where multiple books really seemed like one story, this is it.
I like the buildup to the big reveal in the last chapter (avoiding a spoiler here.) I knew it was coming, having read this series before, but it still struck me.
It was one of the main things I remember about the series from my first reading, and it seemed masterful then.
Simple plots like this are hard to come by in our contemporary fantasy fiction, and I appreciate this book for what it is.
Eddings is always easy to read, and a lot of fun if you enjoy witty / sarcastic banter.
It's basically the meandering quest format, where you have to be willing to be along for the ride, because there aren't a lot of plot-changing decisions to make here.
The ride is entertaining and gripping, fortunately.
Eddings has a lot of neat ideas, including the possessed demon-worshipping rites sister of a haunted count and more than one ghost of a dead king.
I also appreciate that in their struggle to find what they are questing for, the protagonists sometimes genuinely miss out opportunities and their competitors gain the lead.
This was the first book that got me into David Eddings. My mother purchased a box of books at a yard sale and this with may other incomplete David Eddings novels were inside. Sir Sparhawk is an interesting character and his interactions with his fellow Pandion knights are some of the best. Magic in the world is fascinating and the reveal at the end was mind blowing. I can't wait to reread the book in the near future.
Orta okul zamanlarında olsaydım sanırım bu kitaba 5 yıldız verirdim ama şimdi okuyunca Eddings'in bazı şeylerde zorlama yaptığını gördüm. Çoğu yerdeki sırf mizah olsun diye yapılan gereksiz espiriler bu zorlamalardan sadece biri. İlk kitapta olduğu gibi bunda da çeviri ne yazık ki çok kötü.
Reread for nostalgia.
