https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226709.Petals_on_the_Wind
So it was kind of a relief to find myself thinking "This is OFFENSIVELY bad" on a regular basis as I read the sequel.
He's her employer, a white man.Ew.Doctor-Son White Guy is thrilled to see the kids.
This is a V.C. Andrews novel, after all.) He sees these beautiful, mysterious, haunted-looking children as a godsend -- a ready-made family he can love and care for.
She forgives sexism, rape, abuse of every kind, and a guy who swears she's the love of his life but cheats on her nonstop.
Hey, guess what?
Flowers in the Attic was only the beginning of this sordid tale!
We now follow Cathy to South Carolina with her gross brother and little sister who didn't die of arsenic poisoning (almost did though).
They get taken in by a doctor and his sassy housekeeper.
Cathy ends up sleeping with the doctor who's like 40 years older than her and then running away to become a ballerina.
Oh, and remember that magical romance with her brother?
She also finds her crazy mom and sleeps with her mom's new husband, beats her grandmother, then sets their house on fire.
WHAT...JUST... what!?I can't even...My summary of this book is: WTF, Cathy?!I mean, I liked it and I'll definitely finish this saga, for I am too invested, but I don't know, this book is just TOO MUCH.
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to Petals on the Wind, the 2nd novel in the "Dollanganger" series written in 1980 by V.C. Andrews. It all started with the attic in the first book, but it set a series of event that would have disastrous impacts for years to come. When you finished the first book, you thought there couldn't be anything more shocking in this family than two cousins falling in love and having children. You also thought there couldn't be a meaner mother or grandmother. But then... book t
4 of 5 stars to Petals on the Wind, the 2nd novel in the "Dollanganger" series written in 1980 by V.C. Andrews.
It all started with the attic in the first book, but it set a series of event that would have disastrous impacts for years to come.
When you finished the first book, you thought there couldn't be anything more shocking in this family than two cousins falling in love and having children.
Though Flowers in the Attic, the first in the series, is first in my heart...
this was a fairly close second and follow-up book in the series.
However it was a lot slower, longer and didn't have the crazy sexual tension like the first one.
Cathy is very free with her love in this.
Are you a male that treats her like garbage?
Are you a male that has something to do with her mother?
Look out, she's (view spoiler)[going to seduce you and then have your baby as a way to get back at her mother.....
Bitch is unstable.You know something is really fucked up, when you are rooting for the brother and sister to end up together, right?
YAS.This was great.
Fucked up.
But great.

C. Andrews I read in middle school.
Here is my confession.I love this particular book.
I thought the initial book in the series, Flowers in the Attic was good.
But this book was written for me – possibly because I was a ballerina like Cathy.
This is what I call a “comfort read,” just how mashed potatoes and peas are a comfort food.
No luck there!This confession was prompted by a NPR segment called “My Guilty Pleasure,” in which a respectable person admits to loving Flowers in the Attic.
I wanted to claw my eyes out while reading this book.
It was so horrible, and yet I had to finish it because I can never leave a book unfinished.
It was difficult and painful.
Every chapter was redundant.
Cathy talks for 400-something pages about the revenge she is going to get on her mother...and she has all of these random run-ins with her and doesn't do anything.
The revenge she finally does get isn't sweet at all.
Suck it VC Andrews.
Or better yet, suck it Catherine Dollanger for being such a poon.
Cathy is so terrible and manages to drag down this entire book.
Does anybody else remember her being this awful?Cathy, Chris, and Carrie do indeed escape the attic, and somehow get taken in by a kind doctor in SC and his housekeeper.
What is not fine is **SPOILERS TO FOLLOW**: how Cathy strings along her doctor, Paul, and her brother, Chris, for absolutely ages.
Cathy ends up having Bart's child, marries Paul, who has by now suffered from several heart attacks, and then dies soon after.
And finally, Cathy ends up with Chris.
Like when you smell something bad & want others to smell it.
Like Showgirls!I recently re-read FitA, which is one of my favorite books of all time.
So I read this again too, for the first time since I was 11.
So she's constantly dwelling on her mom, but you don't care anymore as a reader.Also, the book is one ridiculously improbable moment after another from beginning to end!
It was almost understandable in FitA, but in this book it was over-the-top.
Like VC Andrews wrote this to poke fun at herself.I wish I never read this.
Wow what a fabulous book Petals On The wind was I adored every minute I had seen the movie Flowers I
I'm thinking VC Andrews lets that lie in there and occur without character growth because she is showing Cathy as the damaged being she is, led into vulnerable relationships that aren't always positive.
How she didn't see abuse is questionable, yet combining the unstable relationship in the mystical world of ballet was a surreal treat.I'll hold back the identity of the final guy, someone she actually loved with an intensity that defied years, since it's a small surprise twist that occurs later and ties all in the books in together.
Mothers do not let your daughters read this book!
I remember being so enthralled by it as a teen, that I just had to give it a read as an adult.
Turns out it's AWFUL!
What do young girls learn from this book?
Well, apparently it's okay to be raped as long as you love the person raping you, or at least can live with them long enough to learn to love them.
And whatever you do, never let go and move on from your past.
So go ahead and dwell on that for the rest of your life.Seriously, it's awful.
Just awful.
C. Andrews' meme jpg last year!(Link: https://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/ar...)I'd just finished watching the Lifetime movie version of Petals on the Wind and I'm loving every moment of it despite the cheesiness and stuff.
Although she is such a bitch to the children!Anyway, I can't wait to get my hands on the novel!My thoughts after readingI finished reading the Chinese translation of this book yesterday, as usually I rolled my eyes at the melodramas, the fact that everyone in the story is beautiful and every handsome guy in the story desires the heroine Cathy and the slut-shamming (mostly done by the heroine), but the plot twists and the dramas really did me in!
So, 4 stars.PS: reading the novel makes me appreciate what they had done with the Lifetime TV drama adaptation!
the kids get taken in by an unrealistically good-looking middle-aged southern doctor whom she gets it on with, then she breaks his heart by leaving him for an unrealistically good-looking but abusive ballerino (my sister's word for male ballet dancer).
then she breaks his heart because she is secretly in love with her unrealistically good-looking brother.
oh and then she steals her mother's unrealistically good-looking new husband, breaking all hearts except for ballerino's because he's committed suicide after a disabling car crash.
then mom's husband dies in a fire, then doctor dies of a stroke, leaving her in an incestuous relationship with her brother.
It seemed like he was the only sensible person in this entire book that I didn’t absolutely hate at some point or another.
Her problems were the only ones I was concerned with throughout this entire book.
(hide spoiler)]What I disliked:-Cathy.
She greatly disappointed me in this book.
It felt to me like she didn’t have an identity in this book beyond the bitter daughter that can’t move on.
Plus, Cathy just turned into a slut in this book.
Cathy was the main reason I disliked this book so much.-Plot.
There wasn’t one other than Cathy living her life and plotting her revenge.
Your mother locked you in an attic and now you're boning your brother?
And I've read three books filled with Peeta Mellark so that's saying a lot.
This book isn't about her scars from being locked up in the attic or how it's really ruined her life.
You are better off nailing your brother at this point.Other than sleeping with everyone she possibly could, this entire book is just repetitions of one thing.
There's nothing but a lot of racism and constant rape and Cathy making you hate her more than you ever thought possible.
We sat, all three, pale, silent, staring out the windows, very frightened by all we saw." After long years of being locked in the creepy, dark attic of a gothic Virginia mansion, Cathy, Chris and Carrie are finally free.
Both Cathy and Chris are obsessed with their mother, though for completely different reasons.
The forbidden kisses and touches continue throughout the book, though Cathy seems determined to put an end to their "unnatural love" and force Chris to move on and find someone else.
Cathy Dollanganger o cómo volverse psicótica y un putón verbenero.
I couldn't put these books down when I was in high school.
Which says alot at a time in most teenagers lives when they are repulsed by reading anything that isn't required by school.So, just when you think the kids are going to be all right - after escaping Grandmama's evil clutches - they go and find bigger and better ways to mess up their lives...
and I root for the remaining Dollangagner kids all the way.Chris is unshakable in his love (and not the normal brotherly kind) for his sister, Cathy.
They are growing up, and while Chris and Carrie go away to school.
Este libro me lo leí mucho mas rápido que el anterior pero quizás me decepciono un poco. Odio la Actitud de Cathy en ciertas ocasiones que necesitaban un poco de madurez de su parte. Por otra parte, apoyo su idea de venganza hasta que se volvió en su única obsesión y propósito de vida (Admito se paso un poquito de la raya). Creo que continuare con la saga pero dentro de unos días, por ahora solo necesito un pequeño descanso de las (miserables) vidas de estos chicos que al principio de todo esto no tenían la culpa.
Cathy's story reads like some twisted Mary Sue.And yet.
In the back of my mind, as I read on, I wanted to shake my fist at God for placing such a damnable book on earth!
In the deepest recesses of my mind I can admit that the sincerest hope of my innermost soul was to see Cathy learn to find and accept love, to cast aside the entanglements of self-interested men.
As the story went on, in my mind's eye I held Cathy before me and plead with her: Please!
As I turned page 374 and wondered when I could finally stop this never ending spiral of tragedy and despair, I forced myself on.
DNF the audiobook version of this at 65% This one was way too over the top for me.Flowers in the Attic, the first in the Dollanganger series, was a guilty pleasure.
While others were moving on, all she could do was plot out her revenge.
In addition to her crazy revenge scheming, she was a little too loose in this book.
I couldn't keep up with who she was in love with let alone sleeping with.
By 60% I just couldn't read anymore about Cathy's crazy antics and her obsessions with men.
Lets just say it was more of the same Cathy craziness.
Too much of a guilty pleasure can be bad.
1. Catherine Dahl is an efftard blessed with the brights of Becky Bloomwood, the vengefulness of a character in a Shakespearean tragedy, and the relationship savvy of Bella Swan.
Except instead of thinking she smells like irresistible beer nipples, MEN CANNOT RESIST RAPING HER.
SHE IS A RAPE MAGNET OF LOL PROPORTIONS.
2. But I KIND OF WANT TO KNOW IF SHE ENDS UP LOCKING HER SONS IN THE ATTIC???Fuuuuuuck.
How can I find it within myself to continue hating Twihards if I keep reading this dramaturd series?(One star for bookrape, three stars because, like good old Catherine, I somehow found a way to enjoy it)
I'm going to copy and paste this to all of them!!!!
I feel like I have to justify this and all of the other V.
C. Andrews books on my list!!
I read these when I was young and loved them!
My sister and I poured through them- they were obviously trashy for our age (probably the appeal) but mom let us read ANYTHING- as long as we were readung she was ok with it!
And that paied off- because both my sister and I still read for pleasure daily.
You can't beat it!
Hey- and why be a book snob???
Siblings released from attic. Continue to shag. Reacquainted with donuts. *puts fingers in ears and lalalas at anti-donut propaganda**devours donut defiantly*
And Carrie's self-esteem is destroyed (this is made much worse by Cathy's failure to recognize Carrie as an observing, intelligent person rather than a victim, or to consider the effect of Cathy's actions on Carrie).Flowers in the Attic is about the effect of two bad women (Cathy's mother and grandmother) on the sibling victims.
It's like V.C. Andrews knows that Cathy can't continue with the revenge-seeking that drives the story if she's burdened with this horrible husband, but she still has to make Cathy do all the proper self-abnegating abused wife song and dance before getting rid of Julian.BART.
First we have the kind doctor who takes in the three POWs. Chris has a mentor now, Cathy can do her ballet, and Carrie can start growing her body to match the size of her head.
On the floor next to her nightgown.Then there's Julian, the hot ballerino who also happens to be a cruel bastard who likes to kick the tar out of Cathy whenever possible.
(This is, of course, after the demise of Julian and more waiting around by the good Doctor).
Cathy gets her revenge, but at what price?What happened to Carrie?

Never fear though, a nice older black lady takes sympathy on them and takes them home to her "doctor son" who helps the children and because they are just so damn charming (more like the moment he lays eyes on a 15 yr old Cathy he wants to hit that thing) he legally takes full custody of all 3 Dolls.
Since Cathy is probably one of the most stupid female characters in history, she decides that becoming a rich and famous prima ballerina is the best revenge, how that's revenge I don't know, seems more like moving along with her life and pursuing her dreams.
