https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/777047.I_Was_A_Doctor_In_Auschwitz
Perl covers strictly her time as an inmate in the camps from just before entering to just after being freed, but I had been wanting more to learn about her life following the war, about being suspected and cleared of assisting in Nazi atrocities, about locating her one surviving family member (her daughter, who was mentioned so little in this book that I had forgotten she existed until I looked up Perl's Wikipedia article), about relocating to New York and becoming a renown specialist of infertility issues.
I think this book was amazing.
I have read a lot of these memoirs feeling that is important to learn these tragic stories and hear their voices.
But this book disturbed me more than any other has.
She took the time to tell amazing and inspiring stories about these individuals she met, all who wanted to live, only to perish.
I feel so deeply sorry for her loss and the things that this world allowed to happen.
Education is the only way to be free and we must prevent this type of thing from ever happening again.
This has by far been one of the most difficult books I have read till date ! The sheer atrocities committed against humanity will give you goosebumps. Also, it being a true account gives you an inside picture of life in , not one , but three concentration camps . Definitely makes one thankful for living in the times that one does now.
Even thought I finished in a few hours it has been one of the hardest books to read.
Even thought my county was not directly involved of affected by this war I feel all the sorrow and pain the victims went through.
I feel like sometimes we forget our humanity, and this is a really good book to be reminded of that, and to always be kind to each other no matter our believes, races, sexual preferences, among other things, because remember that no one is better than anyone and the we are always equal human beings and we cannot destroy each other.
I was looking for this book for over a year , it's out of print but managed to get a PDF file. An easy quick read with descriptions of the inhumane , abominable treatment of prisoners at Auschwitz. Whether it is the exchange of 3 uncooked potatoes for a bag of diamonds, the ill fitting wooden slippers of different sizes on each foot , foraging for survival necessities in a pile of cadavers , this book paints vivid pictures of the horrors at Auschwitz that stay etched in your mind forever . Brilliant read!

This story is about a Hungarian Jew doctor who was sent to Auschwitz where she stayed until the war was almost over. The chapters are short but each tell about a different person or facet of the stay there in Auschwitz with even a chapter about Irma Greze. Right at the time when Auschwitz was to be liberated the SS took her away and after some time, she ended up at Bergen-Belsen where Liberation finally came.A very compelling and gripping read.
The most fascinating book on the Holocaust that I have ever read.In 2003, a film entitled Out of the Ashes was released. It was based upon the story of Dr. Perl's life, and starred Christine Lahti as Dr. Perl.It you don't read the book then at least see the movie.
This is a really awesome, powerful book. I have trouble putting it down. It reminds me a lot of Anne Frank.
This was the most intense book that I have read, ever. I think it is very sad that it is no longer in print and available. If you are lucky enough to get your hands on it, you NEED to read it.
The stories of different people Dr. Perl has woven into this book show the uselessness of that fight over supremacy the Nazis waged.
How I so want to slap not only this book, but all other books related to Holocaust, to the faces of those people who plan to do something those evil Nazis have done years ago.
Humans never have shaken off their propensity to bestiality.
I hope we can work together despite our differences to stop such people from repeating the Nazi's foolish and senseless abuses and love for stirring fears to satisfy their inhumanity.
I had been waiting to read this book for several years.
This book is very different from a lot of accounts of those that survived The Holocaust.
The other thing different is Dr. Perl is the only doctor to go on record of performing abortions in Aauschwitz.
Reading Dr. Perl's accounts of these abortions, only done because of the situation is heartbreaking.
The only things that disappointed me about this book was the lack of follow-up about Dr. Perl's life in the eventual years and a lack of accuracy.
This book doesn't seem to be for sale at all anymore, but it is pretty easy to find various PDF versions on the internet. It's not the most amazingly written, like more the more famous books by Elie Weisel, but I imagine this is down to imperfect translations and a lack of editing. However, many people often forget that gender was a large issue during the Holocaust, and this book sheds a light on that. Gisella Perl performed hundreds of secret abortions at Auschwitz and saved the lived of countless women. Her story should be as well known as others.
Much like Night, Gisella Perl's memoir was written very shortly after the war and her anger and fear are still very much at the forefront. She performed amazing feats of medicine with absolutely nothing she really needed to do them, but she speaks of her acts as though they were simply what needed to be done and not a sign of amazing inner strength and conviction.Dr. Perl doesn't mince words about the horror and awfulness she witnessed and how low down she went. But she came back up, like so many other survivors, and we have her story.
What a hero. What the Nazis did to people was almost unbelievable. I read this book constantly thinking to myself “How can a human being do this to other human beings”. The stories are very graphic but I feel like that is very important to get the real stories and accounts like this.
Originally published in 1948. Real and raw.
The ensuing account being both raw and titillating.“In the latrines, lying in human excrement and before the eyes of their fellow prisoners, men and women were writhing in sexual paroxysm.” This quote from Perl highlights what I most hate and most love about her writing.
Perl discusses a camp illness related to dysentery which gave everyone uncontrollable diarrhea which then would drip down onto other beds (or cages, as she describes them.) Moreover, the revelation of a very prevalent bartering system where men gave women small necessities in exchange for “love” in the latrines rings very true.The story is very severe, and human disbelief in the Nazi atrocities at the time may have made that necessary.
It is a true tragedy that this book is no longer in print, everyone should be required to read it.
Gisella Perl was an amazing woman, a true hero, in every sense of the word.
This book is short and while I was completely engrossed in her story and could have read it for days to come, I'm glad it wasn't much longer.
And the stories about the prisoners who so desperately wanted to live only to be executed brutally, some just days before the allied forces arrived to liberate the camps is absolutely heart wrenching.
I was able to find a PDF online to read. I would love to find a copy for my collection. Great read.
I still can't imagine that everything was real, that this is part of our human history.
