https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/705257.Father_Christmas
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
In this very funny graphic novel, which appeals to adults and children alike, we discover that Father Christmas lives in Northern England - I can't help wondering whether he knows Wallace and Gromit.
The video follows the book fairly closely.
After all, they make whiskey out of it![He's just come down the chimney and found himself in the middle of a fancy dress party]SOPHISTICATED WOMAN: [looking him up and down and shaking head] NOT very original...
I got this book as a Christmas gift, and I vaguely recall my mother being concerned that it would destroy my image of Santa Claus, whom I still very much believed in.
While I can understand her concern, she couldn't have been more wrong.
This book made me love Santa even more!
Before I was introduced to Raymond Briggs's version, Santa was a fairly amorphous concept, but after reading Father Christmas he was a grumpy old man who lived alone and who hated getting socks and ties as gifts, but said "Good old Fred" when he opened a bottle of brandy.
Not Raymond Briggs at his best (see 'Fungus the Bogeyman' and 'When the Wind Blows') this is still a lovely book - with Briggs usual wit and lovely illustrations throughout.
Presented in comic-book form, this delightfully humorous holiday tale features a grouchy Father Christmas, one who struggles out of bed on the important day, trudges through his morning chores and his breakfast, and then sets out - complaining all the way, ha ha!
From the difficulties of letting himself into various homes - sooty chimneys, too-thin chimneys, no chimneys - to the challenges of weather - "blooming snow!
- this Father Christmas has plenty to keep him kvetching, until (finally!) he reaches home again...Winner of the Kate Greenaway Medal in 1973, Raymond Briggs' Father Christmas is quite a treat, visually speaking, with a suitably rosy-cheeked, chubby hero, one whose "sweet" appearance is hilariously contrasted with his somewhat curmudgeonly attitude.
I always love re-reading this book ,yes it is july but I am unwell and needed comfort and I love christmas and book and movies so i just knew that this would calm me down with being ill and then the stress of not working and everything else
I still love the image of Father Christmas having to use a wheel barrow to fill up his sleigh with presents.
By allowing the readers to see inside the houses as Father Christmas battles with aerials and squeezes his way down chimneys to deliver the presents, Briggs ignites the anticipation and delight in all who are patiently awaiting his arrival.
So in tune with children Briggs was in the writing of this book, that he manages to include all the things that children wonder about Father Christmas, like does he like the food we leave him to eat?
This book made some kids very upset when I read this to them. It actually left one child adamant that Santa must be fake as 'he cannot possibly be angry and have a potty-mouth!"  This can be amusing for adults but not very child appropriate. Santa is weather resenting, cursing and is found drinking alcohol on every page! Horrible portrayal of Santa for the kids! Read for yourself for some holiday irony but be warned it may kill a child's Christmas Spirit.
I absolutely love this book about your not so stereotypical Father Christmas!!The story is told in a graphic novel form with detailed and very descriptive pictures which can be enjoyed by children and adults of all ages.
The story is about a rather grumpy and 'blooming' cold Father Christmas and what he has to do on Christmas Eve. It really makes Father Christmas seem more real and in some ways more loveable as a consequence.The story is great to use to introduce children to a different types of novels and could get children telling their own stories through pictures.
Father Christmas is such a powerful book that could be used in so many ways and would make a great addition to everyone's book shelf.
Valkoinen parta, punainen nuttu ja lentävät porot ovat tuttua juttua, mutta muutoin viiletetään vähän tavallisesta poikkeavalla linjalla. Vai mitä sanotte joulupukista, joka vihaa talvea, ei varsinaisesti rakasta myöskään työtään, joka mielellään latkii konjakkia ja polttaa aterian päälle sikarin ja jolla palaa käpy kurjan sään takia? Kerrassaan hupaisa joulukirja, hihii!Nappasin tämän mukaan kirjaston lastenosastolta, mutta itse vinkkaisin mieluummin aikuisille.
When my son was little, he and I both LOVED this book (we still like it a lot, actually). A British classic, funny, humane and believable.
Still as beautiful as I remember.
Besides the amazing artwork, I really didn't like the portrayal of Santa Claus (or should I say Father Christmas?).
He was basically like any old, bitter grandpa, who constantly complain about everything.
I get that it's "realistic," but when I think about the mystical Santa from most people's childhood, I don't want to think about my grandpa.
The goodness in him that motivates him to be Santa Claus?
95% of the story is about him complaining about his "job" and the snow.However, it got better towards the end, and I couldn't help but fall in love with the artwork.
The book is set out in a comic style way, it presents words in speech bubbles, the illustrations are easy to follow and the story flows from picture to picture Feaures of the book and how it can be used with younger children in the curriculum Activities Many activities can be done with the help of this book in a groups, such as;• Maps• Rewrite/draw the story giving father Christmas a different emotion• Role play using the different characters
Turns out I am not a fan of a crotchety Santa who complains about every aspect of his job and only seems content when drinking wine, ale or cognac. Other than seeing Santa sitting on the toilet, I can't imagine most kids would enjoy this tale.
I'm not sure why I love this book so much, but I do. Maybe the picture of Santa being a grumpy old man who is just doing his job, and the only magic involved is that his reindeer can fly? I don't know. But it feels homey and real, and I like it.
I personally love it, but I'm not going to be sharing it with any kids this year. Such a grumpy Santa!
This is a very British picture book.
I half expect to see this Father Christmas appear on one of those whinging shows, where celebrities have a go at everything and we laugh at them for having a go.
So I half expected Father Christmas to go through a redemption arc.
It also makes the book feel like a gag, similar to the most popular of the contemporary picture books a la Mo Willems, Jon Klassen et al.
(There must be a bestselling female example I can start listing alongside funny modern picture book authors, but I'm yet to find her.)
I'm not sure whether I did read this as a kid. I think not, though there's a lot of familiarity. Briggs is great at characterisation and his portrayal of Father Christmas as a grumpy, foul mouthed, isolated, thoroughly British curmudgeon is a joy. I'd like to spend some more time reading this myself. There's a lot of love and humour present as we get an all too real glimpse into the working life of the man himself. Great stuff.
I'm not sure this is a book for children, as much as their frazzled parents. I'm not sure kids would get the humor in Father Christmas complaining his way through Christmas Eve and then boozing it up when he gets back to the North Pole. It's funny for an adult though.
A fun little kids‘ book from my childhood. Cool.
See the previous review on Father Christmas goes on holiday.I did technically read these out of order, but I prefer reading them this way, so they follow the same story as the cartoon.
Not very keen on this as he is soooo grumpy!!! What a miserable Father Christmas!
Follow a comical Santa on his Christmas Eve. It's borderline inappropriate (Santa enjoys a good drink or two or three), but fun and very British. The illustrations are very lovely too.
Zero respect for the belief in a perfect Santa, but full of humour, making Santa more a ‘real’ person and less myth.
Comic book style layout with minimal story, so I made silly sound effects for what Santa was doing and Sol giggled.
So much fun...what a grumpy grump Santa Claus!
Beautifully illustrated comic with some really fun cross sections of houses, but I wasn’t a fan of the grumpy, crotchety old Santa who never stopped complaining about having to deliver presents.
Un Père Noël différent de l'image habituelle qu'on a de lui se lève le jour de la veille de Noël... un récit sous forme de bande dessinée sans presque aucun dialogue à mourir de rire !
For adults. Grumpy Santa.
