https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336862.Mitch_and_Amy
My favorite chapter is when Mitch finally realizes that reading can be fun. Clearly perfectly captures the everyday wonder of that moment for all of us.
I loved this book. While it does not have the charming and hilarious characters such as Ramona, it touches a time in childhood where children not only become more invested in solving their own problems but self-aware enough to see the fragility of others.
ไมไดเปนเฉพาะเรืองราวของฝาแฝดแตผูเขียนไดใสบทบาทของเดกเกเรคนหนึงเขามาในเรืองดวยตัวรายทีคอยแกลงสองพีนองและเพือนๆ แบบทีเหนบอยๆ ในภาพยนตรแนวนีของฝรังในฐานะของเดกทีถูกแกลงมิตเชลลพยายามดวยตัวเอง ใชทังความกลาและความกลัวเพือทีจะผานพนเหตุการณเลวรายในโรงเรียนสนุก นารัก นาเอาใจชวยคะ
ไม่ได้เป็นเฉพาะเรื่องราวของฝาแฝดแต่ผู้เขียนได้ใส่บทบาทของเด็กเกเรคนหนึ่งเข้ามาในเรื่องด้วยตัวร้ายที่คอยแกล้งสองพี่น้องและเพื่อนๆ แบบที่เห็นบ่อยๆ ในภาพยนตร์แนวนี้ของฝรั่งในฐานะของเด็กที่ถูกแกล้งมิตเชลล์พยายามด้วยตัวเอง ใช้ทั้งความกล้าและความกลัวเพื่อที่จะผ่านพ้นเหตุการณ์เลวร้ายในโรงเรียนสนุก น่ารัก น่าเอาใจช่วยค่ะ
We all laughed so much aloud in this one and it was the magical car audiobook experience I've dreamed of.
In just under a month, Beverly Cleary will celebrate her 100th birthday, and for well over half a century, her books have delighted readers everywhere with their believable and sympathetic characters and the ordinary situations they face.Mitchell and Amy Huff are twins just starting fourth grade.
Amy has great difficulty learning her multiplication tables, not least because she wastes so much of her energy avoiding the task, but when she is finally forced to tackle them, Mitch surprises her by offering to help.Mitch's biggest problem this year is Alan Hibbler, a smug, smarmy boy a year older.
I've always avoided this title because I thought it was one of Cleary's teen romances.
I don't like teen romances.
The way she deals with the bully is a thing of beauty, but so is the aftermath.One interesting effect of going through all the Cleary books in a row is seeing how certain small anecdotes get recycled (sewing pants for stuffed elephants, for instance, and the "shave and a haircut" postscript to a processional) and subtly changed.
Cleary's writing has an immediacy and a charm that somehow I missed as a kid.
This book Mitch and Amy by Beverly Cleary is about two twins (Mitch and Amy) and they are their own enemies.
This book reminds me of me and my older brother.
I gave this book a five star because it was just the right reading level and I can relate so it was interesting.
Mitch has trouble reading and Amy has trouble with multiplication.
And they are always bugging each other about it.
so me and my brother are always bugging each other about stuff like that.
So yes, i would recommend this book to readers who like realistic fiction and a little bit of comedy.
I also liked the fact that Beverly Cleary went and took pieces of what each twin was good at by showing that Amy was good at reading and liked to do more arts and crafts and how she made Mitch good a being a math whiz and how he would actually rather go and skateboard most of the time and about how he does not always want to sit and practice reading so he can be come a faster reader so he can go in a lot faster reading group in his forth grade class.
We've enjoyed many of Beverly Cleary's books in the past, especially the Ramona series, but I had not been aware of this one before my eight-year-old daughter found it at the library. I wouldn't say it's quite as good as the Ramona books, but it has many of the same endearing qualities. Written back in the mid-1960s, there's a certain sweet innocence to it. I especially enjoyed and appreciated the relationship between the twin siblings of the title.
While elementary age children may be able to relate to some of the problems in this book, I just found it frustrating, because the siblings didn't get along. There was a lot of tension throughout the book.
I remember this book fondly from childhood, but it does not stand the test of time. Typical gender roles for a late '60s book, and bullying with questionable resolutions.
Well in The fiction book Mitch and Amy you'll get a little taste of how it feels to be twins and be bullied.
Mitch and Amy both think being twins is fun,but don't have the Sam interest, Amy is good at reading.
In the text it states that the twin have nothing in common except a common enemy!
Overall I really enjoyed this story because I love Beverly clearly books they make me feel like a little kid because her name sounds so childish hehe!
So if you just want a book to read I suggest reading Mitch and Amy , you won't regret it.
I decided to preview this book wondering about the suitability or interest appeal it might have for my grandchildren.
Both main characters are nine years old, going into grade four.
great I have a nine year old grandson going into grade 4 this coming fall.
Mitch, one o the main characters builds a skate board check.
another 9 year old grandson is taking skate board lessons!
the mother of the twins Amy and Mitch is a birdwatcher as am I and I share my interest with my grandchildren.
This story is about these two siblings, Mitch and Amy, who are both very different.
Mitch is a boy who spends his time outdoors and loves to ride his skateboard while Amy is a girl who would rather spend her time doing arts and crafts.
Throughout some chapters, you will find both siblings fighting and annoying each other.
It isn't until one day Mitch finds a bully that is out to get him.
And not only does he pick on Mitch but also on Amy as well.
I hate ashamed to say that I didn't read much as a child.
I was in the top reading groups, but never read for pleasure outside of school.
How on earth my teachers let me get out of Elementary School or even Middle School without exposing me to Beverly Cleary, should get a finger wagging.
I read the Motorcycle Mouse Series and I am sure that is only because we had a copy at the house.
We love our siblings, we want to give our siblings swirlies on the toilet at the end of the day they are our family!On to my next Beverly Cleary..Sock!
Mitch & Amy have always reminded me of my own brother and myself.
We weren't twins, but as close in age as we could be and not be twins.
The arguing and teasing, but still the closeness and loyalty was all the same.
Ms Cleary, having twins herself, was certainly writing what she knew, and this little story of a brother and a sister banding together, with their friends, against the neighborhood bully stands the test of time.
My favorite part is how Mitch learns to love to read - with the help of his sister, who found the book that started it all.
3.5 STARS"Mitch and Amy both think being twins is fun, but that doesn't stop them from squabbling.
Amy is good at reading.
Mitch is a math whiz.
Amy likes to play pretend.
Mitch would rather skateboard.
They never want to watch the same television show.
And they always try to get the better of each other.Then the school bully starts picking on Mitch -- and on Amy, too.
Now the twins have something rotten in common: Alan Hibbler.
This twosome must set aside their squabbles and band together to defeat a bully!" (From Amazon)More fun and adventure with Beverly Cleary's characters.
I read this book years (and years) ago. Loved it! Mitch and Amy are twins with typical sibling issues; however, when push comes to shove, they defend each other and genuinely care about each other. Each of the twins has issues to overcome. With Mitch it's a dislike of reading, with Amy it's math. When Mitch gets sick and his mother finds him "sneak reading" a book under the covers, her reaction is priceless. A must read for boys or girls.
This is a reread, several times over. My eleven year old son wanted me to read something with him, so we pulled out this book. I am enjoying it just as much as he is, but Beverly Cleary is one of my favorite authors. I love how she writes things that are so true to life. I'm a middle aged mom and still enjoy her books, possibly because I can totally relate to both the kids and the parents in her stories.
4.5 StarsOne of my favorites from my childhood! As a triplet, I definitely understand the love/hate relationship intense and unique in multiples. I thought my sisters and I were different until I met Mitch and Amy!! Some of the references are a bit dated just because of when this was written (I'd say the same of Ramona Quimby) but in my opinion that only adds to the charm. Like Ramona, the spunky child characters make this story what it is.
Mitch and Amy, by Beverly Cleary, is about the relationship between two twins. Mitch, a sporty math champ, is the exact opposite of his twin sister Amy, a girly girl who loves to read. Later in the book, the twins both have trouble standing up to the school bully Alan Hibbler, and they have to work together to solve this problem. If you enjoy realistic fiction books, you'll love Mitch and Amy.
I wonder if Cleary wrote this as an homage to her own twins. I found it heartwarming without being too cloying. Interesting take on the bully theme and doubly interesting to me because it takes place in the East Bay.(Side note: I read the 1973 version with illustrations by George Porter, and this is not something I read as a kid--it's a new one for me! I can't believe my hometown public library didn't have this book. Why not?!)
While this does deal with always familiar themes like siblings and bullies, it is fairly dated. Amy and her twin brother, Mitchell, start school and are excited about the technology in their classroom ( a TV! and a tape recorder!) There are also multiple times that sexist themes, like a girl not being able to do certain things, that left a bad taste in my mouth. Would not recommend easily.
This book was cute and I generally really enjoy Beverly Cleary. But this one was too wordy for the audience. We did it at home as a read-aloud, just for something fun. And whether my daughter or I were reading it, we found ourselves stumbling over extremely long sentences. Even though I enjoyed the topic and some of the things that happened, it's not my favorite Cleary book.
I first read this book as a kid sometime in the 70s, as I was working my way through Beverly Cleary's entire opus. It wasn't my favorite as a kid, and I found it to be just ok now. It has the charm of Cleary's writing style, but I didn't find the characters and situations as compelling as some of her other books. Still a great read though!
A trip to the library led me down memory lane in the kid's section so I grabbed a few of Beverly Cleary's books that I had never read when I was younger. This was a cute little story of twins and their trials of life (school and chores, hehe). I like books that are simple and straight-forward, and accurately portray the huge dramas of normal life activities through the eyes of children. Fun!
This book took me back to the 1960's. So funny how some things change like technology since this book was written yet other things - sibling conflict seem to go from one geration to another. Found the book while cleaning up and I found that I still enjoy a real easy read especially when Beverly Cleary writes the book.
This is a nice story, crafted well in the style of much of Beverly Cleary's older material. The narrative is reliable and well done, giving in-depth insight into what it means to be a twin in both the good and bad times. This book is an excellent choice for reading to be entertained or to learn about relationships.
It reminds me of my sister and I.The children are constantly fighting and bickering about something. But when the town bully starts to pick on them, they are forced to work together to beat this bully. I rate this book 4 stars for its realistic features.
It's a pretty long book, but my third graders loved it. They were able to relate to the problems that the twins, Mitch and Amy. After we read the book, we even created out own bird just like Amy made in the book.
