https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169331.Addicted
(hide spoiler)]PROBLEM 2:Zane tries to tell us that the reason Zoe enjoys sex so much is because (view spoiler)[ she was sexually assaulted as a child.
After that it was just like, “Are you serious?” and “Are you flippin' kidding me?” PROBLEM 4:(view spoiler)[ Every single person that Zoe cheats on Jason with, EVERY SINGLE ONE, turns out to be a murderous psychopath.
<--- Can't repeat this enough.PROBLEM #8:(view spoiler)[ So - one of the people Zoe cheats on Jason with is a woman.
(hide spoiler)] - (view spoiler)[ Zoe does NOT have sex with Diamond in the film.
This is an EXTREMELY inaproppiate book,but i loved it. It was juicy and scandalous.
I just saw the film's trailer and I'm definitely interested in reading this now.
not that i was expecting anything spectacular, but seriously, WHY?!
this novel is written like a poorly orchestrated soap opera with more twists and turns than can possibly happen to any human being.
it is overly-dramatic and completely unbelievable.
the only reason why i'm giving this book a star at all is for the theme of true love which i actually liked.
also, the book had a lot of branding of material items like cars, shoes, bags, etc.
my first and last zane book for sure.
Book description is as follows: "Addicted is the story of Zoe, an African-American female arts dealer.
Everything seems perfect in Zoe's life to her friends and family as she secretly deals with serious problems in her marriage.
By the time she seeks the aid of a prominent female African-American therapist, the walls of her picture perfect life have already started to crumble.~~~~~~~Addicted shifts into high gear as Zoe finds out that everyone from her lovers to her husband to her own mother are hiding secrets of their own.
This was one of the first erotic books that I read and it was great.
Addicted, chronicles the life of Zoe, a middle class African American female who seeks therapy for sexual addiction.
Blunt, violent and entitled, something black women have never collectively been, Zoe, feels she has a right to toe curling extramarital "sexcapades" with people she knows only on a first name basis to fulfill the sexual desires her sexually repressed husband cannot.
She's possessive of her lovers and feels justified in having knockdown drag-out fights with their women and justified in telling outlandish lies to Jason to cover her tracks.
Thanks for the fabulous read Zane,
I absolutely love this book!
The story was on point, I love all the twists & the fact that the book wasn't predictable.
One thing I could say that I dislike about it is how extra parts could be, like how "perfect" her life is, and the part where she got hypnotized etc.
It just seems a bit too exaggerated, but I guess you could find people like Zoe in real life.
And the sex scenes were kind of whack.
I don't know if that's a good term, but anyway the book was good & I'd definitely recommend it.
El libro está publicado desde el 2001,por lo tanto aunque es erótico, las escenas no son tan porno como los libros actuales del género.
Lo que quiere decir que no es una historia recomendada para personas que odian las infidelidades, así que ni pierdan el tiempo,porque desde el título hasta la sinopsis advierte de que este es el tema que trata.Ya entrando en los capítulos, vamos conociendo como Zoe y Jason se conocen desde niños.
Por eso aunque Zoe esté como una cabra,sea una total perra y OJO jamás justifico ni justificare una infidelidad,lo cierto es que en su matrimonio faltaba lo más importante además del amor: la COMUNICACIÓN.
Much like reading the comic strip Curtis, everytime I picked this up on the bus (and hope the person next to me didn't read the cover), I wondered if Zane is really black.
I also wonder if "she" is really a woman.
If it turned out that "Zane" is really a psuedonym for a racist, misogynist, white man, trying to reinforce every idiotic negative stereotype you've ever encountered, I wouldn't bat an eye.
To say that this book is trash would be unfair.
To trash.
I would be hard pressed to say reading this is better than not reading at all.
It's perhaps a step-up from internet fan-fiction.Reading Zane is much like eating McDonald's.
A heart stopping 4.5 stars. I can completely see why this has been made into a movie .... It is jam packed with passion, suspense and surprises. Top that off with a gorgeous cast it's no wonder I loved it.
This book has the sexual morals of a teen slasher flick combined with the dedication to research of an Encyclopedia Brown mystery. The author's choice of putting her own ideas of what "sexual addiction" means (masturbation! teenage interest in sex!) in the mouths of psychiatrist characters is just plain irresponsible.
Boo!! Boo!!! Boooooo!!!! And I don't mean it as a term of endearment. No. Just no. Sorry I was liking this book in the beginning and it just kept spiraling into a trifling mess.
That’s one of the reasons I was able to finish it in a day, well that and because I literally couldn’t put it down.While I typically don’t go for books that involve cheating or love triangles I couldn’t resist this one.
And we’ll all be seeing the movie together :) As much as I loved this book I do have a couple of issues.
I mean I felt like Zoe’s therapist was way underqualified to help her anyway and should’ve referred her to another doctor who specialized in Zoe’s type of addiction but that’s another issue entirely.
Kind of ridiculous but interesting and well written.
Zoe, the main character, is addicted to sex; come on – how is this going to be entertaining or even good?
Towards the middle of the book is when things start to unravel for Zoe. I found myself so invested in the characters, wanting the best for Zoe, her husband Jason, and Brina.
There is a point in the book that makes you think, “Ok, something is off and we just have to wait and see what it is.”I don’t want to give away the book, but there are points where Zoe knows what she is doing is wrong, but just she doesn’t seem to know why.
Good plot, but too much foul language and annoying personality for me.This is not a typical romance novel.
I also did not enjoy Zoe's personality.
I also didn't like the way Zoe would lie over minor things.On the other hand, the plot was good with twists, turns and surprises.
Don't get what the fuss is about. This was not a book I would recommend to anyone. It's not sexy. The dialogue is unbelievable, the characters are one-dimensional. I'm just sorry a tree had to be sacrificed.
On the other, she was kind of ridiculous, and I couldn't help but want to know what she was going to do next.As for the sex appeal of this book, there was none really.
Not at all sexy.Toward the end, the books takes on a suspenseful twist, but I think it went too far.
(hide spoiler)] And in the end, it doesn't seem like much gets accomplished.
Spoiled, selfish Zoe suffers a bit before getting everything she wants, because this is her world and everything in it revolves around her.
Instead of Zoe going downstairs, she 'goes her ass downstairs'.
Will it be my last Zane book?
Everything should be perfect, except that Zoe is addicted to sex.
The story is not spectacular or groundbreaking, but I think it was an interesting look at sexual addiction (or at least a form of it).
Zoe's love for her husband is strong and reading through their early relationship you see that despite his less that stellar performance, she wants to be with him.
Anyone else could have been telling the story and it wouldn't matter because she didn't make it worth reading.
I wouldn't highly recommend it, but if you had to read one of these types of books, this would be the one I'd pick.
First things first, yes its an erotic book, but it focused a lot on romance.
Yes it had drama, but the sex scenes seemed rushed and lacked imagery.
It was just point blank, slight descriptions, and I just didn't feel in tuned with Zoe as a character.
The characters didnt seem that realistic or sincere.
Sure I was gripped onto the book until the end but a lot of things were predictable.
*sigh* The only thing that really set me on edge were the twists near the end of the book.
I loved this book! Am I turning into a Jenny?
Better the second time..Love this book.. Can't wait for the movie
I read this book in anticipation of the movie was thoroughly disappointed.
People love Zane and I wanted to like this book, but it was so poorly written, I just can't.
The author's use of exclamation marks threw me off (She!
Uses!
There were way too many plots in this book and they seemed to be added on just, because.
The characters behaved in ways that real people just don't behave, further making it difficult to relate to the book in any way.
I certainly hope the person who adapted the screenplay for the movie did a better job.
I have to admit that for once in my life I only read this book because I saw the trailer with William Levy in it and just couldn't wait for the movie to come out so I read the book.
Don't ever read a book just because the movie looks good!
The whole time I kept picturing the actors and the only thing I liked about the book was the fact that two people could go through so much drama and still love one another.
So I guess the message would be that if two people truely love each other than they can truely overcome any obstacle and let their love for one another prevail!
Cute message though.

I gotta say - I was expecting more from this book. Don't get me wrong: it had its moments and the last quarter if the book did pick up the pace. However, it just have me Tyler Perry vibes.I don't Tyler Perry vibes.What I mean is that when the woman is cheating, THEEEE most crazy scenarios occur. Some of the events border on extremely unrealistic. It was a nice way to pass time but this book needed a little more UMPH.
i wanted to read this to see what the fuss is all about. urban fiction and especially this author is almost immediately stolen from my library or else put on an endless reserve list for patrons. its terribly written, uninteresting characters and not even that sexually explicit. i don't have a clue why its so popular.
A great book, the ending was a little too "wild" for my taste (feeling like too much happened in a short period of time) but all in all, I loved this book and could NOT PUT IT DOWN! I really wonder how the movie will be!
My addicted is reading a good book, speeding, music, tattoo and dancing.
The part that turn me off when Zoe is telling her business to doctor because she's having affair to her husband with her different lovers.
Why didn't she tell Jason about her problem before she cheating on him with different lovers?
However, Jason is a good husband and good person to Zoe but he also has issues problem.
So far, Addicted by Zane is a good book.
Also, I'm looking forward to watch the movie and reading another book from this author.
The characters were all annoying and their personalities just didn't do it for me.
The drama was definitely over the top, to much unnecessary drama, so many twists and turns that took away from the main characters real problem.
The book did surprised me at the end and I realized everyone was just plain crazy with tons of emotional problems and mental issues.
Alas I did decide to read this book because of the upcoming movie and even though I didn't like the book I will still see the movie just to see how it compares to the book and hopefully they stay far away from the book in my opinion just to make the movie tolerable.
