https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92573.Correction
The book starts when he shows up at a house of a taxidermist by the name of Hoeller, another boyhood friend of Roithamer, whose new home on the Aurach gorge contains the garret in which the great man did most of his intellectual work.
No one but the unnamed narrator is even allowed to speak in the novel, except Roithamer himself, and then only through the texts he's left behind.
The novel is in fact a single unbroken chunk of text.Anyway, slowly, up there in Hoeller's garret, like Roithamer before him, our narrator begins to unravel.
The first half of the book seems to repeat itself (with subtle variations which it becomes clear are corrections of a sort) - the key facts are that Roithamer has inherited Altensam, his parents' estate, that he hates the place and most of his family, that he has conceived a Cone at the centre of the Kobernausser forest as a perfect space for his sister, that he spent three years planning it and another three building it, that he could only work effectively in Hoeller's garret, in the Aurach gorge, that his sister died soon after seeing the Cone and that he, Roithamer, committed suicide shortly afterwards, leaving an incomplete masterwork covered in corrections.
Saben con absoluta certeza que volverán a sumergirse en la misma historia que sin trama alguna ya les han contado una y otra vez los mismos personajes egocéntricos, misántropos y pesimistas que se desprecian a sí mismos por seguir en un mundo al que desprecian; personas obsesionadas con proyectos imposibles y enfermas de soledad o de mediocridad o de angustia o de insatisfacción o de incomunicación, que piden a la vida lo que esta no les puede dar y que parecen arrastrar consigo una culpa personal o incluso colectiva en la que la familia, los profesores, el estado y la sociedad toda tuvieron un papel determinante y perverso; individuos con claras carencias afectivas en su infancia y aquejados frecuentemente de problemas médicos que van a precipitar sus naturalezas autocríticas y autodestructivas; quejicas insoportables y elitistas a los que el mundo entero odia, a los que el mundo entero entorpece y obstaculiza, a los que el mundo entero ve como quiere verlos y no como son realmente, a los que nadie en el mundo comprende ni comprenderá jamás.
I read this some years ago but it remains vivid in my memory, so vivid in fact that I think it might
In order to do his work, Science, research and building the Cone, which is his life accept for his friendship with the narrator, must be done with doors locked.
This desperation left his told tale unreliably-interesting in that his tale is about his tragic friend’s obsession with obtaining perfection and control.The tale, I believe, that the narrator is hoping with dear life to express is that control, perfection, truly knowing anything, is impossible.
What we know now is different one moment later.
We only agree, according to this haunting and haunted tale, on the static complexion of life as a matter of survival.
Not that Bernhard's creatures haven't lost, or won't lose theirs, mind you—but they have retained a vestige of sanity enough to allow them to set down these tortuous insights before leaving this hateful world for another.Carrying right along from where The Lime Works left off, Correction features the scholar-student Roithamer, the estranged scion of the Austrian gentry estate of Altensam, a disturbed man who, in the midst of shuttling back and forth between a professional life at Cambridge and his home of Altensam which he both loves and loathes, plumbs his genius to harvest the virgin idea of building a geometrically perfect and personality-infused edifice—in the form of a giant, multi-level cone—dead center in the vast Kobernausser forest.
As John Peel once remarked about The Fall, “always different, always the same”, and this applies to the dissonant pulveriser Thomas Bernhard too, with Correction his Perverted by Language.
As remarked in the blurb, the protagonist Roithamer is based on Wittgenstein, but knowledge of that popular philosopher is not required to penetrate the cracked skull of this obsessive-depressive.
This sequence of events is described by an unnamed narrator in the first part, then in Roithamer’s own words in the second, at which point the novel ramps up a gear into the deranged brilliance stakes, as Bernhard’s maddening repetitions and claustrophobic blocks of text lock the reader into his protagonist’s fascinating and hilariously disturbed mind.
Lemos um livro, lemo-nos a nós próprios, detestamos por isso a leitura, assim, Roithamer, não pegamos mais em nenhum livro, ler já não nos é permitido."...
Num texto contínuo, sem diálogos, o narrador vai expondo o seu pensamento e acontecimentos, recorrendo a frases repetidas, não como fluxo de consciência, pois não há desordem do pensamento que possa dificultar a compreensão do texto, mas um revelar gradual — tomando como exemplo um cone (importante figura geométrica do livro), é como se partíssemos do vértice e rodando rodando fossemos ampliando a estrutura até alcançarmos a base onde temos a visão completa da construção.
This one includes for example at least ten pages of repetitive ranting about how Austrians only excel at one thing, out of everything they could possibly excel at, the only thing they excel at is suicide.
It goes on and on about how good Austrians are at suicide -- if this is your idea of a good time, if paragraphless rants that after about half a page become pretty hilarious before going on and on, saying the same thing in different ways, musically, wonderfully, over and over, if this is the sort of thing that turns you on, you have found a must read.
Fino al momento in cui l'odio come una malattia travolge ogni cosa, ci si scopre indifesi, disarmati nella rivolta nichilista, la scelta di isolarsi diventa cattiva coscienza, l'ossessione pervade ogni facoltà, viene la disgrazia, il notturno, la vergogna di abitare un mondo che non ci appartiene, l'impossibilità di portare a compimento le proprie responsabilità, di farsi carico di un destino dolente e angosciante, estraneo: sfondare il confine ultimo, estremo fallimento, estrema inattuabilità, impotenza del singolo nel fragore della condanna, nella prigione dell'intransigenza, nella mostruosità verso il prossimo.
Dear Flor, because you read The Book of Disquiet and since you have nothing on your to-read shelf...I, Goodreads, recommend you this book.*reads summary; smiles; nods; wants this book, now*
Lichtung I posit that Roithamer would authorize this rewrite of his masterwork "About Altensam and everything connected with Altensam, with special attention to the Cone". Of course his ultimate correction of a correction of a correction, etc. would have been a blank page with only the memory of now non-existent verbiage, with heavy traces of extreme anguish, but my rewrite has the advantage of not only representing this blankness but of showing what that blankness represents, which is a cleari
Lichtung
I posit that Roithamer would authorize this rewrite of his masterwork "About Altensam and everything connected with Altensam, with special attention to the Cone".
Of course his ultimate correction of a correction of a correction, etc.
would have been a blank page with only the memory of now non-existent verbiage, with heavy traces of extreme anguish, but my rewrite has the advantage of not only representing this blankness but of showing what that blankness represents, which is a clearing (lichtung in German), an ecstatic clearing of the mind and heart and soul at the moment of its final correction: its extinction.
Έκσταση.
Found a Thomas Bernhard blog with loads of links to articles and criticism! Should be a lot of fun.
One of the things Bernhard’s novels don’t seem to have is an overall form, or imposed sense of organ
La novela más lograda de Thomas Bernhard. En su interior resuena Kafka. El texto se desarrolla siguiendo la forma del Cono: parte de amplias circunvalaciones que van reduciendo su perímetro a medida que se gana altura. Roithamer es un caso de trastorno obsesivo-compulsivo elevado a la máxima potencia. La persona de Roithamer es su cerebro, su cabeza. Roithamer es solo y exclusivamente una cabeza. Cualquier proceso tendente a la apropiación total de la Naturaleza por parte de una cabeza termina en aniquilación.
Antes de ese portentoso tramo final, no he sentido en ningún momento esa sensación de estar atravesando el fondo de un abismo, sin embargo, cuando un libro concreta algo que para ti permanecía un plano abstracto, es que sin duda ha sido una lectura oportuna y vale mucho más que esas lecturas mucho más intensas pero también más epidérmicas.
Por lo tanto, esa ofrenda no es más que una especie de gesto de conciliación, necesario para resolver ese conflicto interno que bombardea su mente.Y qué curioso.
we always enter a school only to be annihilated, the schools are gigantic institutions for the annihilation of the young, those who come to them for help are annihilated, but the state has its own good reasons for financing the schools, so roithamer, once we leave school, our slow death has simply reached a more advanced stage, nothing else.
correction is an unsettling, somber, and, at times, surprisingly funny novel.
there is beauty and madness in roithamer's tragedy, as bernhard masterfully creates a nearly oppressive milieu.
signs of madness, insomnia, feeling sick of life.


Roithamer si rifiuta di arrivare a questa accettazione, spingendo al limite della sopportazione il proposito di costruire geometricamente l'esistenza: da qui l'ossessivo gesto/istinto della correzione infinita delle sue bozze, da qui la decisione di portare a termine il cono, il cui esito negativo si concretizza nel suicidio come finale correzione.Nel silenzio, i tarli lavorano: le assi della soffitta di Holler scricchiolano, i cassetti si sbriciolano; gli assi del cono crollano sotto il peso del tarlo dell'anima.“Esistenza in estinzione”.Radura.
Just wow!"We read a book, we're reading ourselves."You know that feeling when your thoughts are so intense that make you frenetically walk inside your room (even maybe you are laying on your bed) and then, only then, you start sifting and sorting and after, only after that, you start the "Correction of the correction of the correction of the correction." This is how this book is!
Madness, yes the madness of a genius!
Suicide, the suicide of a genius!
Clearing."I just turned the last page, closed the book, put my underlining black pen down and I thought:"Wow!
Este narrador se hospeda en la buhardilla de los Höller, donde Roithamer pensaba en el Cono, y donde se encuentran todos sus papeles, fórmulas, pensamientos y recuerdos.Mediante una reiteración constante, iremos conociendo de las vidas del narrador, de Höller y sobre todo de Roithamer, y como si de una lupa se tratase, Bernhard nos va acercando más y más a los detalles de sus existencias.’Corrección’ no me ha gustado tanto como ‘Trastorno’ o ‘El malogrado’, pero contiene elementos que hacen merecedora su lectura.
Kao da postoji nešto u engleskom jeziku što ga sprečava da prenese svu mistiku nemačkog.Problematično je što je jedan ozbiljan mislilac kao što je Vitgenštajn ovde poslužio kao inspiracija, preciznije rečeno zanimljiva anegdota iz njegovog života o tome kako je projektovao kuću za svoju sestru (u jednom momentu je procenio da je plafon previše visok i da ga treba sniziti za tri centimetra i nije se smirio dok se to nije sprovelo u delo), iz prostog razloga što glavni junak u finalnoj verziji nije veliki genije već je prosto čudak, pomeren, nakrivo nasađen.

Thomas Bernhard is just one of those unique genius type of writers that never gets it wrong. Well, at least the one's I have read so far. But this obsessive writer writing about obsession of sorts is an amazing journey into his brain - and it's a rough ride there, but well worth the price of the book and the time as well.
All his usual motifs/tropes are here, namely alienation/fulmination against humanity and Austria in particular, sister fetish, suicide, music & composer & lit author adulation, word repetition i.e. woodcutters, correction, monstrous, annihilation, CONE and/or etc., etc.
The jukey back ‘n forth, the then this and thus, the then not loop-d’-loop whirlybird narrative of narrator trying to follow the detritus of our madman’s left-behind papers is itself maddening and reads like scenes out of “Rainman” where Dustin Hoffman’s character needs his Judge Woppner like he needs his K-mart undies.
– can’t I read detached if need be, not to be shackled into a Sade’s whipping at my temporal lobes; it is, after all, just a book!
I stand, or rather sit [wheelchair] CORRECTED!
The narrator writes, as he says himself, "with utmost ruthlessness".
The strength of the writing is that this ruthlessness expresses and describes both beauty and truth.
And in wearing down our resistance to the idea that ruthlessness is true and beautiful Bernhard produces more dread and discomfort than in any other writing I've known.Four stars, not five, because the other of Bernhard's novels I've read ('Extinction')' does this even more powerfully, and with broader historical scope.Both demand re-reading and study, but require an active resistance to such darkness as "almost all the social gatherings we've ever been drawn into, without ever quite knowing how or why, strike as useless, they serve no purpose at all, all they do is weaken us".
Siguiendo su estilo habitual, Bernhard nos describe un proceso obsesivo que deriva en la locura de los dos protagonistas principales, involucrando directamente al lector mediante el uso de la primera persona, la redundancia de frases y la ausencia de capítulos y puntos y a parte.
Leer una novela de este autor supone experimentar de primera mano los pensamientos de los protagonistas, sus obsesiones, sus reflexiones, sus motivaciones, sus contradicciones y errores.
No es un libro fácil de leer pero supone un rara avis dentro de la literatura contemporánea, un desafío para los lectores más curtidos que sentirán en su propia piel el proceso de autodestrucción de sus personajes.
Read the first paragraph and you'll understand why I like this book.
