https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818353.The_Flivver_King
This book was published in 1937 and, despite the subsequent growth of unions (which absolutely improved working and wage conditions for the average auto worker, at least for a few decades), our present situation is virtually identical to the one Sinclair describes in the Flivver King.
Franklin was no party-member, his political affiliation was with the I.W.W., but there were a lot of people in the area who carried both cards and some comrades did volunteer work for Kerr Publishers.
We, the Chicago branch of the SP, started carrying Kerr books at our literature tables.
I started collecting and distributing them.The Flivver King is certainly not Sinclair's best novel, but its topic, Hitler's favorite American, publisher of The Protocals of the Elders of Zion, Henry Ford, is certainly an important figure.
The Flivver King deserves to remain in our consciousness, the history it provides on Henry Ford's entanglement with anti-Semitism is crucial to the study of American industry.But Sinclair is an awful novelist.
The back and forth narrative of Abner Shutt and Henry Ford gets gimmicky around page 10.
These sing-song, back and forth chapters detail Abner's oblivious nature as an exploited worker, followed by Ford's cognitive dissonance in all things labor.Sinclair tries to make the novel entertaining in the end simply by ratcheting up his gimmick: the Shutt-Ford transitions take place between paragraphs rather than chapters.
Sinclair is a formidable author who does not shy away from taking a certain satirical approach to the realities of Henry Ford, Ford-America, and Ford's view of himself, his fellow men and the world. The Flivver King is not only a work of fiction, but it is a window into a period of American history of industrialization and early globalization in certain respects. Thus, one must not simply read this boom as if it was a simple critical work by Sinclair, but also as a work of historical fiction.
The theory was that this money would seep down to consumers and promote trade.
But what happened was that the money stayed right in the banks where he put it; they couldn't lend it unless they could see a chance of profit, and how could a business man promise a profit when he couldn't find anybody who had any money to spend?"The book was written in 1937 as the world struggled to recover from the Great Depression.
In theory, it could work in a supply-constrained economy if profits were not enough of an incentive to promote industrial production.
The net effect is to reduce overall consumer spending and further depress the economy.
The period between the 1890s and the Second World War formed America as we know it today and this fascinating portrait of early Detroit (a long way from the 8 Mile city of today), takes the reader through a process of fast technological and social change.The book features two heroes, ordinary Ford plant worker Abner Shutt and the big boss man himself, still the most influential industrialist we have seen.
It's a polemical piece from the openly socialist Sinclair: Ford's anti-semitism isn't glossed over, athough at times he comes across as a simple man who was easily led, much like Shutt himself.The vice like grip of supply and demand is also well understood although dire consequences for the working class are always up front.
Creo que parecía algo muy impactante en ese entonces porque era novedoso, pero era inevitable que se perdieran trabajos para mejorar la eficiencia.
Claro, la pérdida de trabajos era inevitable, pero quizá la reacción de Ford pudiera haber sido más de ayuda con sus ex-empleados.
Eso es lo que parece ser obvio, pero claro que todo es más complicado de lo que parece así que no le extiendo tanta simpatía ni tanta aversión a Ford (en el puro aspecto de la producción en masa, assembly line y pérdida de trabajos, de resto era una rata lol)
It was very interesting to read a bit about how things changed slowly for both the workers and the management. Sinclair did a good job in telling the story and presenting the conflicts within a single family. That being said it still seemed a bit abrupt in the jump from "everything's great" to "everything sucks".
Never has the rise of industrialist De-troit seemed so elegantly retarded. Weirdest discovery: Greenfield Village was created, indirectly, as a result of Henry Ford needing another creative outlet after finding out he couldn't write op-ed pieces in his newspaper trashing the Jews anymore. I wonder if the drunk Abe Lincoln impersonator at the Eagle Tavern knows about that...
simply written book that explains exactly how america works and always has. you couldnt ask for a better example of why our country has so many rules and checks and balances. easier and overall better than the jungle. this wasnt even intended to be a novel, the union asked sinclair to write a brochure on the necessity of unions( when they were) and out popped this novel.
Got this from Seth. It tells the early history of the Ford Company and unions from the perspective of one family, which made the whole thing more compelling. It's a quick read, since it was designed to be accessible to the unionizing auto workers.
Sinclair is a great writer, and the ending was really good. I liked how it bounced back from Ford to Tom's perspectives. However, Sinclair was very biased on Ford's life. It was a great book nonetheless.
Superb book. Hits on many of the things that were happening at this time and sheds light on Henry Ford's true being. He was a man who wanted money and to get his name out there. He honestly didn't care much about the workers as his age pressed on. Great book, definitely recommend.
This book was written by Upton Sinclair in 1937 as a propaganda piece for the UAW's organizing drive and boy, is it ever obvious. Still, it's a good, thought-provoking read - especially when you consider that scientific management is still utilized in manufacturing to this day.
I had to read this book for my History class during my sophomore year of college.
Exquisitely cinematic.
agit. a fine, maybe the best, example of agitprop. fuck ford. fuck corporate crony capitalism. ONE BIG UNION.
A little slow, but important.
Story of Henry Ford. He turned out to be a rather nasty man. Whoever edited this book should have been fired. There are so many typo's it's hard to read at some points.
Eerily prophetic!
I read this for my history class in college. Phenomenal story about the assembly line and how it changed the world.
This is good. It bashes Henry Ford. I have an original paper bound copy of this from 1939 that a book collector gave me. IT RULES
Wish I had read this one when my dad (who worked at Ford) was alive so we could discuss it. Not for republicans or anti-union folks.
I had to read this for my HR labor law class, but found it rather interesting...of course if you love Henry Ford and consider him a great American Hero...don't read this.
A must-read (if you can find it) for anyone who doesn't understand the dire need for the UAW during the boom of the industrial age.This is a book I will never part with and pass on to my kids.
I had to read this book for a class, but I really enjoyed it. You will like this if you enjoy history and the Industrial Revolution period.
You were right again Upton Sinclair but it wouldn't surprise you in the least to know that things have only gotten exponentially worse.
