https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51089.Black_Spring
In the street you learn what human beings really are; otherwise, or afterwards, you invent them.And throughout the entire book he keeps walking the streets: streets of his childhood, streets of his adulthood, streets of his voluntary exile, streets of his dreams and streets of his recollections… And he encounters so many people and sees so many things…And then one day, as if suddenly the flesh came undone and the blood beneath the flesh had coalesced with the air, suddenly the whole world roars again and the very skeleton of the body melts like wax.
This book changed my life. No hyperbole. I never looked at the world the same way after reading this. It was also present at the moment of serendipity when I finally "got" modernism. Probably the best birthday gift I've ever received. Thanks Ken.
Suddenly, walking down a street, be it real or be it a dream, one realises for the first time that the years have flown, that all this has passed forever and will live on only in memory; and then the memory turns inward with a strange, clutching brilliance and one goes over these scenes and incidents perpetually, in dream and reverie, while walking a street, while lying with a woman, while reading a book, while talking to a stranger..."Miller wants to reinstate his wholeness (though not necessarily his wholesomeness), and he will wander everywhere, walk anywhere in his quest for wholeness.In Search of His RootsIf you’ll permit me to descend into the Australian vernacular, Miller didn’t just return to Europe in pursuit of sexual conquests, he was seeking an alternative to the industrial and materialistic life he found in America:"Things happened to me in my search for a way out.
"The third room was an alcove where I contracted the measles, chicken pox, scarlet fever, diphtheria, et cetera: all the lovely diseases of childhood which make time stretch out in everlasting bliss and agony, especially when Providence has provided a window over the bed with bars and ogres to claw at them and sweat as thick as carbuncles, rapid as a river and sprouting, sprouting as if it were always spring and tropics, with thick tenderloin steaks for hands and feet heavier than led or light as snow, feet and hands separated by oceans of time or incalculable latitudes of light, the little knob of the brain hidden away like a grain of sand and the toenails rotting blissfully under the ruins of Athens."Where this chapter opens with the description of his home, it shifts to his obsession with the way humanity destroys itself, the never-ending list of wrongs he sees."I am thinking of that age to come when God is born again, when men will fight and kill for God as now and for a long time to come men are going to fight for food."One could argue that Miller was a pessimist.
لو خيرت أن أقابل واحدا فقط من جميع الأدباء والفنانين الذين أعجب بهم لاخترت ميلر دون تردد، ميلر طاقة إبداعية متدفقة تتحرك على قدمين، ساكتفي في مقابلتي معه بمراقبته وهو يتكلم يقرأ يكتب، يعلق على المارة يحكي لي عن أصدقائه وزوجاته.
استطيع أن اقرأ لميلر عشرة آلاف صفحة دون توقف وأكون مستمتعا بغض النظر عما يتحدث عنه.
لا أعرف كيف يقرأه البعض مترجما، إنجاز ميلر الأكبر لغوي، أقرأ له أجمل نثر مكتوب بالإنجليزية، تميزه اللغوي يغطي تماما على جوانب القصور في كتاباته إن وجدت.
Black Spring is Henry Miller's hallucinogenic fragments between the Tropics. Each fragment or short story alternates between Paris and New York in a psychedelic swirl of stream of consciousness and technicolor modernism.  "I sit in the dead center of traffic, stilled by the hush of a new life growing out of the decay about me."
Reading Black Spring, I was left with the impression that the poetry in Miller's prose is a rather rare occurrence.
While I can certainly see why someone would call Miller a poet of street style, I must admit that I was personally quite disappointed by Black Spring.
Examining his writing in Black Spring a bit more carefully, I found it lacking in many ways.
Black Spring does contains a few hauntingly beautiful passages, but in my view they don't make it up for the rest of the book, that mostly strikes me as chaotic, immature and exhibitionist writing.
وبعد الإعتياد على كل هذا الجنون الفكرى ، والرغبة المتدفقة فى الكتابة عن كل شىء ..
وان اختفوا تماما فى نهاية الكتاب وتبقى فقط ذلك "المونولوج" او الحوار الداخلى بين ميللر ونفسه ..ميللر وقارئه ..
---------------------------------------الكتاب أهداه ميللر إلى أنانيس نن ..التى كتبت عن أدب ميللر مرة فى مذكراتها (مقارنة بينه وبين معاناة الأدباء الأوروبيين ككافكا ودوستوفسكي ):"منذ أمد بعيد كنت قد رأيت تبريرات (هنري ميللر) لنوبات غضبه وعدائيته وانتقاماته فآمنت بأنها جميعا ردود فعل لمعاناة غير عادية وقد أظهر كثير من الكتاب الأمريكان هذه المرارة والحقد.
ولكنني عندما أقارن حيواتهم ومعاناتهم مع حيوات الأدباء الأوروبيين (دوستوفسكي او كافكا) أجد أن عذابات الأوروبي أشد وطأة ..
إن مرض الربو الذي أصاب (بروست)، ونفي دوستوفسكي إلى سيبريا ارتبط كل ذلك بحنوهما على الإنسانية ..
I can see how many people, even if they are fans of Miller's writing, will back out of finishing this book, or will finish it the way I did - eating my way through it one page at a time, sometimes even skipping a few (no shame there, my friends), when things get rough.
I hear the new machine guns and the millions of bones splintered at once; I see dogs running mad and pigeons dropping with letters tied to their ankle.As a reader, I am content with going through a book of metaphors if I emerge at the end with such a passage making a living inside of my head.
Now none of them are particularly shocking so why should we keep reading?
Yes, of course it is, but who would suggest that we stop reading Dickens because he's dated?
I'm sure we've all had a crack at stream of consciousness writing and fallen flat on our faces; like abstract art, it's not as easy as it looks.
I say, ten, because every story is different in style and approach and yet they all have the name Miller running through the centre of them like a stick of Blackpool rock.I would not pretend for a minute that this is an easy book because it is not.
Who said reading was supposed to be easy?
ميللر كممسوس لا تنتهي هذاياناته، التي لا تنتمي لأي جنس. فلا الذي بين أيدينا رواية، ولا سيرة ذاتية كما هو متعارف عليه.إنه يهذي وحسب. يستعرض قدراته الغير عادية علي الكتابة والسرد بلا توقف.فوضي: ألف اتجاه للسير ولا سير في اتجاه..صخب: كضربات عريضة بفرشاة ألوان غمست مرة واحدة في كل الألوان..هذيان.صخب.فوضي.كل شيء، ولا شيء.كتاب بلا بداية، وبلا نهاية، كبير بحجم مجرة، لاتنته كلماته، ومحدود بحجم أوراقه ال 270.من يقرأ لميللر لن يشبع منه.. لن يمل.
In Black Spring Miller reinvents his inward journey, again endlessly listing, rewriting his history, trying to live dozens of lateral lives while mourning his single linear life.
Unlike Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn, Miller flies off the handle, not tethering Black Spring to anything so trite as a timeline or plot.
He doesn't really need to, because he'd established himself so firmly in Cancer and Capricorn, that if you're still reading Miller after that, you know what you're in for and chances are you can't get enough.He writes about New York and Paris, about memory, and about the disgusting beauty of a kitchen sink.
Like so much of what Miller wrote, it's dedicated to Anais Nin from the outset.
For instance the way he remembers Mele, a slightly retarded girl that fascinated Miller with the brilliance of her innocence was the depth in which he witnessed the world punish her: Two great round eyes, full and black as the night, staring at me uncomprehendingly.
He is trying to instigate the emotional connections to substance, he does this by recalling the geography of his mind and dancing with the images.
The angel is my watermark.In order to get his harrowing cynicism, you have to imagine that Miller lived in a world of disgusting people.
لا ازال عند رأيي , هذا كتاب يستحق الحقد و القراءة ...كشاطىء يجذبك نحو مصيدة الضحكو تبتسم مع كل دمعة تسقطتخبرك اناملك بأنك ستذهبعلى إطار عينيكعلى ورقة اخرىصوب الثرثرة ... الغريبة .. التي تُسلم بكل شيء و لا شيء ..
ان كنت تبحث عن رواية فهذه ليست رواية,ان كنت تبحث عن سيرة فهذه ليست سيرة كالسير المعتادة,لو كنت تبحث عن هذيان مجنون و رجل يسير مقتحما الأماكن و البشر يكسر كل الجمال بقرف محبب فهذا الكتاب لك .
يستحق مكانا بين 3 ، 4 نقاط كتاب حافل بحيوية غير عاديةحافل بنصوص أقرب لقصائد شعريةميللر: مجنون، وأديب حرفي ممتاز، وغريب، ومعقد، مهووس بالجنس، مريض، وسأقرأ كل ما كتبه
Henry Miller is my favorite writer.
He has been since I was 15 years old and I can barely describe what I felt when I found his works.
He tells me about love, life, sex, suffering, solitude.
Above all, he tells me about myself.
Black Spring, published in 1936, might be my least favourite book by Henry Miller so far.
Written between his Tropics, this book is composed by 10 short stories (more or less).
To be honest, short stories were never my thing.
I end up losing focus.He mostly writes about his life experiences in Brooklyn and Paris.
Henry Miller was a 'flâneur'.
I could have done with more characters and less philosophy, but this is also Miller at the height of his surreal and madman powers, which is always entertaining.
Not his best book, nor his worst.Favorite passage:"Today it is the third or fourth day of spring and I am sitting at the Place Clichy in full sunshine.
Today, sitting here in the sun, I tell you it doesn’t matter a damn whether the world is going to the dogs or not; it doesn’t matter whether the world is right or wrong, good or bad.
A chaos whose order is beyond comprehension.
Beyond human comprehension."
Basically?That Miller is Nabokov, sans plot, wit, playfulness or purpose. Long streams of rarely heard nouns do not a classic make.
Henry Miller is an asshole, and that is what makes him great.
And while I feel I’d always been a slow reader because I tend to really envision a book as it gets processed from eye to occipital lobe to wherever the hell else it pings around to in my brain, this chunk of Henry Miller felt like a new multimedia center had opened up inside.
Not that Miller is exactly fiction, but he set the bar so high in regards to both compelling stories and stories compellingly told that many of the make-believe tales I’d later read began to taste like unsalted rice paste.
The fact that he carried out this mission with such incredible story-telling skills, such shocking beauty and squalidness, such erudition, intricacy and brutality, and such utter freedom, frankness and underlying joy is what made him one of the greatest writers ever produced by the United States—somewhat to his chagrin and certainly through no fault or effort of the country's own.To my mind, “Black Spring” is, perhaps, Miller's most accomplished work, since it is his most concise book, the one in which he found and perfected his style of wildly eclectic narrative, and the one in which he brilliantly brought together his two most formative environments: his native Brooklyn and his adopted Paris (where he was extraordinarily famous decades before the puritanical English-speaking world would give him his just due).If someone were to say to me, "I'm only going to read one book by Henry Miller before I die, which should it be?" I would say, without hesitation, "Black Spring."
Henry in fine spirits, Black Spring is a collection of works seeded together and wrapped up in Miller's later years, the final novel in the Tropics series.
Very close in some parts to Lawrence Durrell's The Black Book, which I am to think influenced Miller, as there are some aspects that are too glucose for Henry's regular style.
I just let Millers timeless rants flood me, not worrying too much if my mind wandered, I'd always return back to some part which managed to pull me in deep within the bowels of Henry's mirth at a downcast and sodden world, a world which for all its diseases is eternally Spring.
It's not what you know, it's experience, it's how you make sense of the reality that you've been thrown into that Miller successfully expounds.
I have some stellar memories reading various passages of this incredible work of prose in Sheung Wan outside of a bicycle repair show and within my cramped apartment in Guangzhou, escaping the violently indifferent world surrounding me.Although it drags at parts, which I suspect Miller wrote merely just because he could, the last third is suffused with some of the most mind-bogglingly emotive, surreal, and downright bizarre imagery I've experienced in the written art-form.
The writing was distracted, thought-provoking, and had a very The-Wave-esque tone of articulation.
I can't say exactly what Miller hoped to achieve by writing this book, because it was more than anything a series of how he saw the world and the philosophies he attached to his thoughts.
There is definitely wisdom and an enviable style of writing here.I'm not sure if the lack of plot would make it desirable for the average reader but I suppose that every book belongs if you have the right mind for it.
Woolf (and ultimately fell in love with it), I would not have appreciated this brilliant book.
هذه تجربتي الثانية مع هنري ميللر، وشعرت بالضجر نفسه وأنا أقرأه. أعادني عامين إلى الخلف عندما قرأت له كتابه عن الشاعر الفرنسي رامبو. هنري ميللر بارع في إعطائك بعد كل شوط من الضجر ما بين عبارتين وست عبارات ممتعة تجعلك تبتسم، لكن هذا لا يكفي. كما أن في سرده شيء من النرسيسية المزعجة، تستطيع شمها.
If only I could write like this!

لا أستطيع))حسن يقول المجنون ، دعني أنوب عنك في هذا، أبدا!هذا هو الشئ الاساسي، هل نفترض أن انفها ليس معقوفا؟ أم أنه أنف ملائكي علوي؟ ما الفرق؟ عندما تبدأ الصورة بشكل سئ فذلك لانك لا تصف المراة الموجودة في مخيلتك: انك تفكر كثيرا في أولئك الذين سينظرون الى الصورة أكثر من تفكيرك في المرأة التي تنتظرك؟
This one sucked me in the way Miller's books always do.
It's hard to wrap your brain around what he's doing, but once you dive in and let go of what you think a novel ought to be, you just can't get enough.I do get tired of the racial and ethnic slurs, but I guess that's part of his honesty.
And after a while, it's just annoying; we get it, man.There's a great Web site, millerwalks.com, that is an excellent guide to Miller's years in Paris.
It shows you where to go in Paris to see the places he lived, hung out in, and wrote about.
Plus it shows just how meticulous he was about putting in real details of his life.
