https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85326.Of_Grammatology
This was too hard to understand, therefore it didn't make any sense therefore it is stupid therefore
If deconstruction was not privy to the very process it describes, it would itself become the very sort of notion that it condemns and says is impossible, the idea of something "absolutely present outside of a system of differences." Every word/concept capable of being articulated and understood in language can only be understood in a system of differences.
Again, the flaw is not in deconstruction, but in the language system and the reading structure itself.As for the claims against Derrida's writing, I personally "like" it, but I won't defend it.
I need a bucket.
This is the a-hole through which there has flowed a river of anemic pretentious francophilic crap for three decades.
Derrida seems to have little of Foucault's erudition and a strange compulsion to make the same empty gestures over and over again.
Everything Schopenhauer said about Hegel applies here (that the guy is a charlatan selling his own image in the guise of a new philosophical language).
Maybe other books by Derrida are wonderful; I've only read "Of Spirit," "Limited, Inc," and parts of this one.
"Limited Inc" was gross.There are few writers I actually hate.
The two I hate the most are Derrida and Allen Ginsberg.
It is ’PHONY’ in a sense - because it isn’t our own reality.Because it is built on a paradox that must remain forever unresolved.This, then, is the reason for the infamous term "deconstruction" - a tearing down NOT of the beauties and necessary frameworks of civilisation, but a breaking apart of the constant web of outwardly-enforced illusions that enmesh, trap and tie us down in the modern world.It is Derrida trying, I believe, to ‘remove the beam that is in (our) own eye(s).’To take us out of this phony world of language...And return us to OURSELVES!I'm sure I would have given the book five stars had I been able to understand all its arguments.But I believe this is the main one.Now Derrida, of course, isn’t talking about writing that enfolds us like a pair of loving arms, or writing that shows us how we can grow or become better people.
well, i read the first chapter, but i have almost no idea what it said even though i tried very hard to know what it was saying. then i went back to read the translator's preface. thanks for nothing, spivak. i'll keep trying.
Derrida takes Saussure's idea of the use of language as a binary hierarchical system that Speech supersedes Writing by dismantling this system and creating a sort of dissected form of the notion of language.
Now within most western language there seems to be binary systems: yes/no, stop/go, male/female, good/bad.
Derrida through deconstruction takes these binary systems and OVERTURNS them through the dismantling process.
Hierarchy systems and the use of binary notions are very western ideologies.
The indigenous however view binary systems in gender for example much differently.
a) Revised 40th Anna Edition.b) Maybe I really should read it this time.
Derrida does nothing more than continue the Heideggarian project of Destruktion.f) If you've not read Hegel, you don't know Derrida.
Like all those Lit=Crit folks from Yale you like to talk about all the time.g) This has nothing to do with your Empirical Sciences.
h) Long essay upon the occasion of the release of this edition by Geoffrey Bennington ::https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2yvZ...i) Derrida is so old fashioned now in our hip 2016 that maybe it's now totally okay to start digging him again.
k) Like the spoon in the matrix, There is no Derrida.
A main point in Of Grammatology however, is that Derrida is speaking of two different sorts of writing: that which writing is traditionally understood to be, that is, marks on a page or writing conceived in the narrower sense Derrida will say, but also, and more centrally in terms of the book's thesis, writing conceived of as the practice of positing metaphysical centers as the basis for thought's coherence.
The implication of this however is that writing in the narrower sense understood as a derivative expression of full speech, a secondary phenomenon relatively less proximate to the logos, owes its coherence as such, to the positing of the logos as transcendentally present.
no one realizes that there is a significance to the fact that rousseau preferred jerking off to having sex.
People don’t understand anything, that is perfectly true, for a while, but the writings do something to them.” It would serve one better if they did not come with a desire to understand and colonize the text and instead allow it to do something: let it breathe, let it draw within ones proximity and give yourself to the song it sings.
Awaken to passion—"the movement of a birth, the continuous advent of presence...becoming-present of presence."I cannot write a review, because I am not finished re-viewing the text.
His essay, "Structure, Sign, and Play in the Discourse of the Human Sciences," for example, though important, certainly lacks a riveting prose style.In my own (possibly simplistic) interpretation, deconstruction works--impossibly, of course--at ground zero.
Derrida explains in Of Grammatology, how Rousseau's writing subverts the nature/culture binary he tries to promote.
In any work, a particular word or concept will be privileged.
Rousseau favors the concept of nature and theorizes that natural man, free from the corruptive influences of nature, was basically good.
Derrida, bringing in his theory of supplement demonstrates how culture "always already" inheres in nature, as writing does in speech.
Derrida is difficult. I read this to write a paper on Aretxaga's  Shattering Silence and found it to be quite illuminating once I read every sentence four times.
"The science of linguistics determines language — its field of objectivity — in the last instance and in the irreducible simplicity of its essence, as the unity of the phonè, the glossa, and the logos.
But another gesture (not another statement of purpose, for here what does not go without saying is done without being said, written without being uttered) liberates the future of a general grammatology of which linguistics-phonology would be only a dependent and circumscribed area.
I think Derrida's point finds its home in this kind of objection, perhaps not to alleviate the objection, but to elaborate on the depths of writing and to provide a questionable backdrop to the idea of it being purely "instrumental".
This is the book where Jacques Derrida first outlined his concept of the deconstructive "trace" (a path, mark, or track which survives our attempts to signify things).
An 'arche-trace' is a contradiction in terms.All of this conceptual confusion is Derrida's way of saying that stable meanings are an impossibility.
I have read some interpretations of arche-writing, and the arche-trace, as the necessary condition of the possibility of general memory.
As Derrida was influenced by structuralism when he wrote "Of Grammatology", it is not beyond the realms of interpretation to think of the arche-trace as the structural possibility of the life, narrative, and writing of the human animal.
This book is based on both deconstruction that Derrida expands and improves here and construction which he performs after untangling the ideas of both Ferdinand de Saussure and Jean Jacques Rousseau.
Derrida reveals the paradoxes existing in both writers' works and the way how they stick to binary oppositions and resting everything upon the centre or origin, which, according to Derrida does not exist at all.
Later he acquits that side of binary opposition which has always been othered or, as Derrida puts it, 'leper'.
This is called 'deconstruction' that most traditional philosophers were afraid to utter before Derrida.
The best way to read this is by skipping Gayatri Spivak's useless and ponderous foreword. The rest is a pretty banal but I guess unique observation on the supplementarity of writing to the spoken word wrapped up in a ton of hackwork. Compared to Limited Inc, this, and Writing and Difference, Derrida's later works are generally more easily comprehended, like Work of Mourning, Acts of Religion, etc. Like Foucault, Derrida enjoyed a late but breathtaking conversion to something like liberalism, and ultimately found justice to be the great irreducible (and... indeconstructible?) human need...
Derrida is difficult. But it's almost the difficulty that makes him worth reading. His prose is multi-layered and at times profoundly performative. This text in particular rewards very careful perusal - an idea essential to his project as a whole. Deconstruction for Derrida is about un-building in order to see the elements of language in pieces and thus be better able to grapple with and understand the connections and significations they make as a whole.
A definitive classic. Don't let philosophical conservatives deter you from reading this book. It may be a challenge, but it changed the rules and redefined the limits of what philosophy is in the Western tradition. A must read!
Dear Derrida i must give up
My claim to have read this MoFo is a flat-out lie. What HAS read ? Who indeed CAN read it ? I couldn't finish page one. Can you help me ?
If I could just get through the Introduction..
Here are some of my thoughts thus far:On the second page of the primary text I find myself both tempted to dismiss Derrida's argument on the basis of his expansion of the concept of writing past the conventional meaning of marks on material to signify (language that is expressed in a visible/physical format) to some massive signification "beyond the extension of language" (p9 OG) and poised to attack critics who seem to dismiss Derrida out of hand as intellectually lazy or simply disingenuous.
Thus, rigorous analytical thinking which results in not merely true propositions, but utterances of Truth are both grounded in the logos and what Derrida means by his expanded notion of writing.
علم الكتابة جاك دريدا تتسابق الموضوعات على أن تأخذ صفة العلم ، لما كان للعلم من دقة نظرية وعملية في 
Derrida does a good job in defining his terms, and as long as we keep those definitions present, much of what he says is not only coherent, but quite insightful:The Holy Grail (or Pandora's Box) of philosophy is "being-as-pure-presence." What does that mean?
Outside a few gnostic hyper-Calvinists at Puritanboard, I don't know anyone who wants that "being-as-presence." So for all the danger of Derrida, we are on relatively solid ground.
Writing means that the “representing” is the actual thing itself.Criticisms*Derrida says thought is “the blank part of a text…[meaning] nothing” (92).
Now if what he means by this is thought can never be a “transcendental signified,” fine.
We would need to read long pages with no reference despite the fact that he continues alluding to the works of writers he is going to refer to.
Derrida has a point, however he continues enticing us with a definitive guarantee of a point without making it.That isn't to say that this book isn't worth reading.The preface by Spivak is an extraordinary prologue to deconstruction, one motivation behind why I think Of Grammatology remains a staple for students learning critical theory is Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak's awesome interpretation; others have attempted their hands at Englishing Derrida and fizzled, yet Spivak's interpretation involves a brilliant mean between 'supporting' Derrida's content and 'repelling' the peruser through over the top neologism.
thank god for this bookshelf so i can take my time coming back to this.
one of the concepts from saussure that continues to pester me regards how the sign's arbitrariness proves its motivation.
i get that the subject is the object, but how does the aleatoric express intent?
the last half the book is strictly thinking with rousseau (writing an origin story about writing origins) to unpack the metaphysical baggage of enlightenment anthropologisms regarding binarisms and the fantasy of presence.
this part of the book hugely resonated with me.
i was not bored anywhere in the whole book.
I didn't finish the book.
I got to page 289--27 short of the end--and just couldn't go any further.
So if there was a brilliant insight located in the last 27 pages, I missed it.This book was an utter waste of my time.
That's not necessarily a reflection on Derrida.
Either way, I got nothing of value from it, so there's not much more that I can say about it.My guess is it's Derrida, though.
I would suggest you stay away from this book unless 1) you're required to read it, or 2) you find similar but somewhat clearer thinkers (Baudrillard, Foucault, Barthes, Bataille) very stimulating.
If you were easily impressed by Socrates getting alot of cred simply for being a troll, you'll find alot to love here.But otherwise, never before has so little of such small impact been said with so many words, expended from the text like the spore cloud of a dying mushroom.'Postmodernists parade their relativism as a superior kind of humility — the modest acceptance that we cannot claim to have the truth.
In fact, the postmodern denial of truth is the worst kind of arrogance.
By making human beliefs the final arbiter of reality, they are in effect claiming that nothing exists unless it appears in human consciousness.'~John N Gray
A wonderful exploration of Derrida's early work with an introduction to many notions he will develop in other works (e.g. supplement, trace, etc).
The significance of certain portions--such as his exploration of harmony and melody in Rousseau--escaped me.
However, in the end, he returns with powerful conclusions about indispensability of representation, the desire for presence (via the image versus via the alphabet), and the West's expanding influence (what we call globalization).
However, I'm glad that I read his other works prior to this text.
Without an established familiarity with where Derrida's work eventually leads, I might have found this text lacking.
:D This book 'Completes' the Nietzschean critique of metaphysics by way of Heidegger. It's extremely repetitious and the author sees himself as a critic of everything but once you get the hang of it it's actually quite fun, and certainly devastating to philosophy. This book has a subversive radical feel that I'm very much attracted to. It's unfortunate that he uses the word 'text' all the time, because it is very definitely a work of philosophy in the Romantic tradition of Hume/Schopenhauer/Nietzsche and NOT anything to do with literary criticism. When put to this end, Deconstruction is incredibly boring.
