https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124683.Puzzle_for_the_Secret_Seven
Ótimo, como sempre, se bem que pouco surpreendente.
The Secret Seven help a family in trouble28 April 2015 This is another one of those feel good Secret Seven stories where a poor unfortunate, namely a lady that lives in an old shack and makes ginger bread biscuits for the local fair, has her house burnt down. In response the Secret Seven step in to help her and her family get back onto their feet. However, a Secret Seven story would not be a Secret Seven story without a mystery to be solved, and in this one it involves a stolen violin, most like
The Secret Seven help a family in trouble28 April 2015	This is another one of those feel good Secret Seven stories where a poor unfortunate, namely a lady that lives in an old shack and makes ginger bread biscuits for the local fair, has her house burnt down.
However, a Secret Seven story would not be a Secret Seven story without a mystery to be solved, and in this one it involves a stolen violin, most likely a Stradivarius (though we are never told what it is, we are just told that it is a very old, and thus very expensive, violin, which in my mind suggests that it is a Stradivarius).
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
Sapta siaga pergi bersama Susie, adik Jack dan Binkie yang merupakan teman Susie.Di pasar malam mereka bersenang-senang tanpa terasa uang habis, tetapi mereka tertarik dengan sesalnya bau roti jahe buatan Mrs. Bolan.
Semua setuju, dan sapta siaga memberikan segala sesuatu keperluan Mrs. Bolan.Beberapa hari kemudian Matt mendapati baju orang orang an sawah milik keluarga Peter hilang, selanjutnya di kota Colin dan Jack mendapati ada seorang laki-laki dengan pakaian orang orangan sawah yang hilang melempar etalase barang antik dan mengambil biola kuno.Buku ini dapat diduga alur ceritanya, siapa yang mencuri karena terlalu sedikit tokoh di dalamnya.
Dan baru diketahui pula dari Mrs. Bolan kalau Benny ternyata tuna netra, makanya Benny selalu mempunyai pandangan kosong, bukan karena dia bodoh tetapi tidak bisa melihat.
Buku pertama dari seri Sapta Siaga yang selesai saya baca. Saya masih membuka buku Serikat Sapta Siaga, yang tidak selesai-selesai karena boring bacanya :( Tapi setidaknya yang ini berhasil saya selesaikan dan cukup puas. Ternyata buku Sapta Siaga cocok untuk bacaan anak yang baru mulai membaca novel. Lebih karena buku tidak terlalu tebal, tokohnya pun masih kanak-kanak, dan aktivitas mereka masih aktivitas keseharian.. yang menimbulkan mini adventure gethooo...
This is a very typical Secret Seven adventure in many ways, which ticks along at the usual pace and follows the usual formula. However, there are definite signs of Enid Blyton's encroaching dementia creeping in for the first time in this series. Also, the Secret Seven have really earned their stripes as the world's least skilled detectives, as not one of them realised that Benny was blind after interacting with him several times.
Another enjoyable and fair mystery. I think this must be a re-reading for me, because I knew the solution immediately. On the plus side, it has some lovely sentimental touches.Back cover blurb: "The Seven see a house burn down--then they witness the theft of a valuable violin! Are the two incidents connected?"ISBN 0-7540-7800-0, 139 pages (the last of which has only 2 lines).(finished 2007-12-03 14:52EST)
Another fantastic Secret Seven tale.***Interview with my 5 1/2 year old***Me: What did you think about that book?Him: I loved it.Me: What was your favourite bit?Him: When the man smashed the window.Me: Who was your favourite character?Him: BennyMe: Why did you like Benny?Him: Because he likes to play the violin and I want to play the violin one day.
The one with the violin in the pram.
godddcaadafnndjc nytbvr vrfrdThe Secret Seven Collection
the was an awesome series when i was small.... gave me the hobby for reading suspense full novels
crecí leyendo sus libros y me sirvieron bien
i had no idear what was going bto happen next but still cool as going to ride on an elefant but an elefant ride would be way better soooooorry i got a bit off topic.!!!!!
Pre teen reads
My Foster Children are now reading my End Blyton books :)
Yet another mystery for the Secret Seven. I felt quite pleased with myself for solving the mystery almost straight away, then I remembered it was a children's book - oh well!
Great
AMAZING!!!The Secret Seven see a house burn down - then they witness the theft of a valuable violin! Are the two incidents connected?
Good kids book - was a present from the family in 1988!
I really like this one, it has a terrific ending and every one of my kids cheers when it is read aloud.
A group of children investigate a theft / mystery.I thought this book had a good story, the writing felt a bit dated but children will probably really enjoy it.
1228th - 2011
Exciting and interesting especially scamper scampering around!
superb book.... for children..
This is one of the weaker Secret Seven books in my opinion. There's a constant thing throughout where the working class characters are described as being dirty, and more than the usual amount of sexism. Once you add in bizarre opinions about disability and a weirdly classist-feeling outcome for the thief in here (a talking-to, because obviously working class people don't know any better!), it's pretty bad. Even in Secret Seven terms!
Book ten of the series and the middle class heroes save the day once again. The whole time you are reading it though you keep wishing to see more of Jack's sister Susie as she is the real highlight of the series, I wish she had a series of her own.
I loved it because it was full of adventure. :) :) :) :) :) (: (: (: (: (:
Lovely
Good.
The Bolan family's house get burnt down to pieces. They get put in? Find out where they get put in the book. The seven found out about a mysterious thing that the Bolan's do.
