https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33590260-kingdom-of-ash
“Once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved her kingdom …” I MADE IT!! And if I never hear a woman’s vagina described as her “heated silk” again, that will be just fine by me!Honestly, though, I have to give it to her: Maas showed a lot of restraint in this book. It was a good 350 pages before Rowan’s magical penis made an appearance 😬. Sorry, I just can't resist. Overall, I liked it enough to give it three stars. I mean, I read all of the bajil
I mean, I read all of the bajillion pages, which is saying something.It's been a long ride.
I'm still perplexed as to why these books got so long in the end.
This is, at most, a 500-page story, extended with long, slow stretches of the characters journeying from one place to another, and repetitive scenes of battle.
The conclusion is suitably dramatic (view spoiler)[though I'm amazed that everyone managed to survive (hide spoiler)] and the beginning details the horrific torture Aelin suffers at the hands of Cairn-- it's not a book for the squeamish.
I was scared that this last book, through whatever course it took, might diminish my love for the whole series -- but gods, was I wrong.
Aelin crying when seeing her second love walk.
Aelin realising little gifts pay off greatly.
Dorian thinking about Sorscha.
Manon stopping herself from thinking about Dorian.
All these things above broke me in different ways, ripped me apart, some mending my heart back together.
It has been a joy.P.S.: Shoutout to my faves -- Dorian and Manon, I love you to the moon and back.
There were so, so many characters, yet every single person's story came to a perfect resolution.If you've been following my account, you might have noticed that each book in the Throne of Glass series has been a yearly milestone that I've tried to hang in there through a long-term illness to read.
(So this one won't be as long as my other Throne of Glass reviews.) There's a lot I'd love to fangirl over and I wish I could talk to you all about certain scenes.My favorite series are ones where a group of characters with various backgrounds and struggles can set aside personal quests for vengeance and come together to fight for a greater good.
I tried to write something longer but I believe that only one word is enough so: - To this series which made me dream and live in a world of magic, friendship, love and sacrifices - To Dorian, Aelin, Chaol, Manon, Rowan and every single character that made me laugh, cry and fangirl feel with them - To everything Sarah J. Mass has done for us, no matter how frustrating it turned out to be or how we didn’t agree sometimes with itTHANK YOU to this series which will stay forever in my heart <3I'm going to miss you guys
(Thank you so much, Alex, for this tour edition! I love you!) #0.1) The Assassin and the Pirate Lord ★★★#0.2) The Assassin and the Healer ★★#0.3) The Assassin and the Desert ★★★★#0.4) The Assassin and the Underworld ★★★★★#0.5) The Assassin and the Empire ★★★#1.) Throne of Glass ★★★#2.) Crown of Midnight ★★★★#3.) Heir of Fire ★★#4.) Queen of Shadows ★★#5.) Empire of Storms ★★★#6.) Tower of Dawn ★★★★★  “Once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved he
Plus, I feel like this series ending was way too clean, and that SJM really didn’t listen to the complaints about A Court of Wings and Ruin!
➽ Fenrys - *blinks once* I actually loved this character and felt so many sad feelings for him, but I think the book was honestly better with the addition of him.
Again, this will never be a series that I love, but I truly love the reading experience of feeling like I’m a part of a massive buddy read with 75% of the book community.
So much thoughts were running through my mind whilst I was reading this, but now that I have reached the ending of this book, I’m just a mess of tears and emotions and I don't know how to express how much it all means to me.
You write and read stories and dream up better worlds, so you can find some hope in time’s of bleakness, to get by, to will yourself to live another day, and look towards a future that is better than what you’ve experienced and are living.
Hope emanated throughout my course of reading these books and what I was left with.
If you want to see pictures of my wall art then just scroll all the way down past the other pictures.
This is how much I love this series.
I am working on a couple of walls that I have dedicated to book art and my photography!
I hated removing those book shelves but I'm loving my art.
(Will do a wall and new bookshelf tour later on) This first pic is just a couple of things.
Later on I will do the whole shelf tour when more things arrive and get made.
My wall art of Aelin & Rowan And the beautiful, Manon!
I have no words. Brilliant, powerful, amazing. Thank you Sarah J.Maas, thank you!
I'm already counting down for this one...  Support creators you love. Buy a Coffee for nat (bookspoils) with http://Ko-fi.com/bookspoils
PEOPLE!!!! Buckle up!!This is no drill! THIS IS FINALLY  HAPPENING!!!! Over this next month my precious Gem and I will read the hell out of this book! <333I can't wait to see all my amazing babies in one book!! Sarah, you better don't kill my faves! I mean it! *glares* I'm not ready for this torture... well, as ready as I'll ever be! So hit me and destroy me with everything you have! "My name is Virginia and I will not be afraid!" ;-P____________________________OMG!!That cover!!!  I LOVE IT!!
Over this next month my precious Gem and I will read the hell out of this book!
<333I can't wait to see all my amazing babies in one book!!
*glares* I'm not ready for this torture...
well, as ready as I'll ever be!
I LOVE IT!!!
Gosh I can't wait for this to hit the stores!!!
"Empire of Storms" and "Tower of Dawn" I'm looking forward to read you babies!!!October, I still have plenty of time to finish those two books before the last one comes out!I can do this!
I love the Bloomsbury Publishing PLC cover!
And it was all for a new world. A better world.
Well. Now I can properly plan my funeral.
Me, after the last book.Dear *insert person here that I cannot name*Ok but for real.. I need things to be fixed. I need this to be fixed. I need this book now, and I need things to be fixed like right now.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI am an adult, but sometimes I have moments where my juvenile side screams to get out, and let me tell you, I am trying so hard right now not to call this book KINGDOM OF ASS. Trying, but not really succeeding because it really was a Kingdom of Ass. This book sucked. And you know, it's funny, because I've been seeing nothing but 5-star reviews for this book in my feed and had so many people commenting on my reviews for the earlier books in
I thought I was giving the books a "fair" chance by reading the first one), but the joke's on you because I read the whole damn series, minus TOWER OF YAWN (oops), and I actually liked them less.I will never understand the hype behind this series.
It reads like bad fanfiction: the main character, Aelin/Celery is a special girl, a Chosen One, who acquires more and more special powers and bed partners as the series goes on, only to finally settle on her Chosen Soulmate.
Sees expected publicationI'll be on my way to college by then?! wHAT?UPDATE 07/24/18: Already in college still no bOOK!!!!!!!!
I make no secret that this is my faverite book series.
Yet somehow every book just seemed to get better then the last.
Wow what an epic finale.The book is a perfect length, though close to a thousand pages not a single line is wasted.
Though I think almost any surviving characters are good enough to have their own book (hint/begging).
Aelin/Celaena is my faverite female character of all time.
I love that quote and I honestly do not think it can be applied better to any other character.This is an awesome finale to the most awesome series, after reading that all other game of thrones are secondary.
‘once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved her kingdom very much…’ 4 special novellas, 7 powerful books, 10 beloved characters, 572 heavy chapters, and 4856 necessary pages have all lead up to this moment, the conclusion of one incredible story. aelin ashryver whitethorn galathynius, adarlans assassin, the kings champion, queen of terrasen, the queen who was promised, the queen who walked between worlds, the faeirie queen of the west, fireheart
‘once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved her kingdom very much…’
4 special novellas, 7 powerful books, 10 beloved characters, 572 heavy chapters, and 4856 necessary pages have all lead up to this moment, the conclusion of one incredible story.
aelin ashryver whitethorn galathynius, adarlans assassin, the kings champion, queen of terrasen, the queen who was promised, the queen who walked between worlds, the faeirie queen of the west, fireheart - it has been a pleasure and an honour to read your story.
may you forever live in our hearts, always inspiring us.
UPDATE!! 08/23/18When your fave author releases a sneak peek at her latest book but you aren't caught up in the series yet...   For the curious: Excerpt--x--x--x--x--x--x--x--x--x--Is that....a cover?*heavy breathing intensifies*
I actually read the whole series in 1 year.🌟 I don’t usually include all the previous books ratings in a review but I am adding it here this time to prove a point:Throne of Glass ★★★★Crown of Midnight ★★★★★Heir of Fire ★★★Queen of shadows ★★★Empire of storms ★★★★Tower of Dawn ★★★🌟 I am actually thankful for Sarah for entertaining us with7 books532 Chapters4464 Pages🌟We haven’t actually gone into the review yet so let’s get down to it:🌟 The world building was great, I love this world, I love the magic, the different creatures and the politics were amazing too.
"What if we go on, only to more pain and despair?""Then it is not the end."I've never cried so much over a book.
This whole series has such a special place in my heart, and what I think a lot of people don't realise is that the Throne of Glass series, like the Harry Potter series, was designed to age with its readers.
This series has meant a lot to me, and while it has its flaws, it's one of those stories that I'll come back to again.
I've gained and lost a lot of possessions in my life, but my books are important to me.
full breakdown review posted *clears throat*WHAT IN THE HELL WAS THIS AND WHY IN THE HELL DID IT ENDThank you, that is all.Yeah right, that’s not even NEAR all the word-vomiting i have to do to express what this series is to me. There isn’t going to be any outward spoilers however i never said anything about it being a coherent well-presented review 🤗🤗🤗 Once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a youngprincess who loved her kingdom …  let me just start off by saying that
-	what would this book be without lysandra-	honestly her ferocious ability to keep fighting and fighting no matter how hurt or distraught or challenged she was-	an honest to goodness queen-	HER RELATIONSHIP WITH AEDION BROKE ME SO MANY TIMES-	i love how she came so far, from the first scenes where she was introduced and had this petty fight with aelin to see her now becoming one of her closest friends-	that’s character development right there-	AND THE WAY SHE MOMS EVANGELINE-	SO SWEET SO CUTE SO PRECIOUS-	I love this smol little family they’ve built for themselves fjkldasjflkja-	 “Win me back my kingdom, Evangeline.”
#0.1-#0.5 The Assassin’s Blade ★★★★★#1 Throne of Glass ★★★★☆#2 Crown of Midnight ★★★★★#3 Heir of Fire ★★★★★#4 Queen of Shadows ★★★★★#5 Empire of Storms ★★★★★ I'm loving this so far but I've finally come to accept that I am NOT ready for this series to end, and I just can't do this yet.
I mean, part of me is like, "STOP GOING OUTSIDE OF THE *LOOK*" but then the other part of me remembers that I low key hated the Tower of Dawn cover until I saw it in person and fell in love, so...
4.5.2018 update: A title? A release date? Hahaha I'm already crying.Maybe, if we cancel this book then the series never has to end. /////Do you guys realize???? That this is going to be the LAST Throne of Glass book? Excuse me while I go cry.
GIMME
ALL HAIL THE MAAS-TER!! SPOILER ALERT!  Seriously though, if you have not read this book, what are you even doing here?? Once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved her kingdom I discovered the Throne of Glass series three years ago. I read the first book in e-book format and the next day I BEGGED my sister to take me to the bookstore so that I could purchase the rest of the series. BEST DECISION EVER. It's been a week since I've read this and I s
• When Fenrys broke free of the blood oath• Rowan's vision of his future family with Aelin • Yrene pregnant • Hassar and Aelin meeting • Borte and Yeran caring about each other• Manon's proposal• Manon kicking the matrons butt• Aelin seeing Chaol walking • Aelin/Chaol and Yrene reunion• Manon officially crowned queen• Aelin stopping the river in Anniele • Evangeline melting Darrow's heart• The breaking of the curse• Ansel offering to share the Wastes with the witches• Yrene opening her own Torre Cesme• ALL MY FAVES GETTING THEIR HEACan we get a round of applause for Fenrys 👏 👏 👏 In my review of Empire of Storms I talked about how Fenrys stood out to me the second time I read the book even though he was kind of a side character.
I finished it. It was the perfect ending so one of my favourite series. I’m very happy. That is all I have to say
Not gonna lie, I feel kinda empty now that this series has ended 😪 What I liked - If you looked at my reviews for the previous books, you would notice that I am not a fan of Aelin but she wasn’t bad in this.
Honestly, Aelin barely did anything heroic and I loved that other people were allowed to shine!!.- My #1 ship in this series (view spoiler)[ Elide and Lorcan  (hide spoiler)] was just so beautiful omg!!
- Fenrys, The thirteen (view spoiler)[ Poor Manon and Abraxos 😭😭  (hide spoiler)], and Yrene 💕💕- The friendships!!
And I love so many of the characters that I can't really choose a favorite.
The only POVs I could have probably done without were Aedion's and Lysandra's.
Chaol we're cool now after the last book!
Lysandra you can do some cool tricks!
Aedion you're dependable!Aelin has been through so dang much, and I feel like she's such a strong character.
We need heroes like that in the real world!
The writing was superb, and seriously, Mass deserves 5 stars just for writing such a huge book and series!
I will say that I need an epilogue of a certain character...
Kingdom of Ash. Aelin will burn everything to ash, it'll be epic.----I'm in a book coma after reading Empire of Storms.This is the point in my life that happens every year after I finish one of Sarah J.
I don't know what to do with my life anymore.The wait for this book feels like is gonna be endless and painful, and I know after this book releases I'll truly won't know what to do with my life after Thone Of Glass series end.
Year after year waiting for the next book and most of them I read them the day they released, it'll be tough knowing this is the last book and the last time I'll read about all my favorite characters.
From finding The Assassin's Blade and Throne of Glass mediocre, to loving Crown of Midnight, then absolutely hating Heir of Fire, loving Queen of Shadows and Empire of Storms to absolute adoring Tower of Dawn and Kingdom of Ash. Gosh, I love this series so much and I'm so emotional right now and I don't know where to start.I loved every single moment of this book.
She deserves only good things and while she struggled in this book and it broke my heart approximately 132 times, she got her happy ending.
I need a minute.I hope you guys love this book just as much as I did.
