https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257140.The_White_Rose
The point I feel with 17 year olds is that the book consists of Aicher-Scholl's account of her siblings route to martyrdom, after that follow the "White Rose" leaflets produced by the Scholls and those I suspect would resonate more with a bookish 17 year old school child more than any one else.What I, as a biased reader, want to know is why the author of this book, Inge Aicheer-Scholl, sister to the two white Rose Scholls was not involved with them in resistance work, but that's not what she wants to tell us, nor does she tell us how she reacted to their execution, nor does she really give insight into why these particular two youngsters were active in a resistance leafleting campaign, yet I feel that her siblings, in death, became central to her life.
A joke or slight criticism again the Nazi party could put yourself or your family in danger--with the average person facing blacklisting, imprisonment or even worse, who dared to speak out?This book chronicles the path of a group of students who did dare to speak and paid the highest price.
The White Rose's mission was simple and dangerous: Print out and circulate a series of one-page pamphlets that attempt to appeal to the population's higher moral sense.Selecting their recipients randomly from phone books and traveling all around the country to mail letters from different cities, the student group's efforts struck home.
The Nazis were bewildered and enraged by the series of subversive leaflets that began to crop up in every major city in Germany.
The tender, chilling, beautiful and horrible life, trial and death of a group of mostly young, German dissidents against the Nazi regime.
They tried to shake the terrible logic of fascist propaganda and the machinery of fear, with simple flyers sent anonymously through the mail as their monkeywrench.
They were so young, yet they knew what they were fighting for: free thought!
With everything the White Rose had up against them, they still resisted though they already lived in a closed down, totalitarian society.
Our society is still a little open, it's not too late for us to learn from history and act!
It's important to realize that not all resistance is violent--and that if nonviolent resistance were ineffectual, the Nazis would simply have let the White Rose continue.
Josef Gobbel's diaries constantly rail against defeatism.
He and the other Nazi leaders were aware that their chief danger was not outside enemies, but people like college students, storekeepers, etc, who were inside the gates, and could throw them open if they united against the Nazis and all they stood for.
They had the incredible self-sacrificing courage to oppose Hitler and his Nazi machine.
There was no violence in their opposition, they didn't hurt anyone, for for their willingness to state that Hitler and Nazism was evil and wrong three of the leaders were executed by beheading.
All they did was print and distribute some leaflets and paint FREEDOM and DOWN WITH HITLER on some walls.
Three of the leaders, Hans and Sophie Scholl and Christoph Probst bravely accepted their death sentence in order to not reveal the identity of other members of the White Rose.
Hans, Sophie and Christoph were brilliant and idealistic and very young.
Very interesting book about a student non-violent resistance movement in Munich, 1942-1943.
First, the author (sister of the two protagonists) admitted to being swept up in the Hitler Youth movement, along with her siblings and friends.
Have you 10th grader ask for help reviewing for his chemistry exam, 30 years since you studied photons (oh, wait; that's from Star Trek).The second thing I liked was the "afterward" in which the author tried to distinguish between what her siblings did in Munich in 1942-1943 and the protests of other university students over the centuries.
Best book i ever tried to read!
The relevant documents are there – an account by a surviving sister, Inge (who seemed curiously uninvolved and not particularly well informed), the White Rose leaflets, the court documents, a statement by a prisoner-wardress in the prison where Sophie Scholl was interrogated, a couple of newspaper articles etc, but largely the book was a record rather than an interpretation.
The significance of the White Rose was, I think, to demonstrate decency, the fact that there are always some people who are prepared to stand against such regimes and though they do not have an immediate effect – there were no major rebellions or uprisings at the time of their deaths – perhaps they do make a difference.
After I learned the name of Sophie Scholl through an online article I wanted to learn more about this courageous girl and her brother and their friends, who were executed by the Nazis in 1943 for distributing anti-Nazi leaflets at their college.
For distributing leaflets.
There are several books about the Scholls and their friends, but I chose this one to start as it was written by their sister, Inge, and I felt it would be a good personal introduction.
I was not disappointed.People like Sophie and Hans must be forever remembered.
I will now forever remember your name, Sophie.
Different accounts of the events from different perspectives.
The first part is a story of their childhoods and their lives told from the perspective of their surviving sister Inge.
Then it moves on the the actual leaflets.
I found the court documents to be shocking and they gave a clear picture of the madness of the Nazi court system and people who are frantically trying to hold onto power and ideals that were rapidly falling to pieces.
Definitely an interesting read for anyone who is curious about resistance in Germany during the Nazi era.
It shows the group's evolution from apolitical youths brought up on Christian teachings to determined opponents of an evil government.
The book is written by the sister of Hans and Sophie Scholl, two leaders of the White Rose Movement.
It covers their childhood, time in the Hitler Youth organizations, the German Army and their campaign at Munich University.
It concludes with their brave, but naïve pamphlet calls to overthrow Hitler and their ultimate impact on the consciousness of the German people.
The story of the White Rose Movement has been made into film three times.
All three were in German, but worth watching.
3.75Bom, porém cansativo no final.
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2018/11/15...
Tenho um grande carinho por esta obra pois foi a primeira que consegui ler em alemão - muito graças ao dicionário mas li!
Por ter lido nesta língua, não poderei comentar quanto à escrita pois a pontuação alemã é diferente e não faço a mínima como poderá ter ficado a versão inglesa.
Contudo, acho que o livro é mais do que isso, especialmente por ser contado por alemães e não pelos vencedores.
Dá força ao leitor para lutar pelo que acredita.Não sou a maior fã de biografias mas esta vale a pena ler.
*3,5Very clear and beautiful account of the lives/actions of the White Rose resistance movement's members."Es lebe die Freiheit!"What a righteous cause to die for.
"Millions of "good" Germans did not like the Nazis, yet thought they were the less evil compared to the communists...Everything was still standing; life went on as before; but beneath the surface, something had changed."- Inge Scholl on Germany shortly after Hitler's election.Many people from my country know how fascist Germany fell.
It consigns all Germans to the role of active supporter or coward.In Germany, for years following the regime's downfall, The White Rose was assigned as required reading.
This book describes the efforts of a few University of Munich students led by Hans Scholl, later aided by his sister Sophie, from the summer of 1942 to the winter of 1943 to resist the Nazis through the distribution of leaflets and the paintings of slogans such as: "Down with Hitler" and "Freedom" on the walls of the university.
Ultimately, they paid for their resistance with their lives and the lives of 3 other young friends and one of their professors.
Many others received lengthy prison sentences.
They believed that their strong Faith in God could not allow them to remain silent and showed great courage in staying true to their beliefs.
Dieses kleine Buch bescreibt die Geschichte der Weiße Rose anti-Nazi Widerstandsgruppe aus München, die mächtige Flugblätter gegen die Nazi-ideologie verteilt hat. Geschrieben von den Geschwistern Hans und Sophie Scholl, zwei Begründern der Bewegung, dieses Buch is ein emotionelles und intimes Porträt. Es versammellt auch die bemerkenswerte Flugblätter, relevante Gerichtsunterlagen, und Zeugnisse und Essays von Zeitgenossen.
A decent, short history of the White Rose Society. Quite basic, but written by the sister of two of those executed by the Germans, so interesting. Plus it contains the leaflets produced and other supporting documentation. Not the best history, but somewhere to start.
This book serves as a poignant reminder of the reach and impact of passive resistance against a totalitarian state.
Very relevant to modern America
Bedrückend, dabei trotzdem erstaunlich erhebend (ich tu mich schwer mit diesem Wort, aber mir fällt kein besseres für das englische uplifting ein) und aktuell wie lange nicht.
It has been said that this one small footnote in history represents the entirety of the "resistance movement" in Germany, although from a historical perspective this is of course more complicated.The editors and writers for this book want the White Rose to be something more.
These can make an excellent adjunct to a history course on the period, and will probably speak to young people taking those courses, because the White Rose members are so much like students in any time and place.
Reading the original (translated) texts of the Scholl’s leaflets that got the White Rose group arrested and the trial accounts provides some much needed contrast to the fictionalized account recalled by Inge Scholl.
In particular I was struck by the strong rhetoric used by both sides to defend their cause, which served to strengthen my sympathies for the White Rose group and gives way to a feeling of disgust when confronted with the extremist viewpoints of the Reich lawyers and proponents.
I've read quite about about The White Rose and the role of Hans and Sophie Scholl in the group's activities, so I thought I'd read what is probably the first account written about this resistance group.
This book was written by Inge Scholl, the sibling's older sister.
In fact, Inge Scholl had no involvement whatsoever about her sibling's activities in Munich until after they were executed, though you wouldn't tell that by reading this book.
Additionally, this book (obviously) served to cement Hans and Sophie's role as really the ringleaders in the group, which is probably not the case.
There was a quote too, "After all, an end in terror is preferable to terror without end." A good guide to live by.I have been reading about WWI and WWII as, unfortunately, in school we did not reach that phase in history (for whatever reason) and I am interested in learning about the how and why of peoples' actions.
I have read now books which explain many things I have wondered about.
All these books I think give me a better appreciation for life and the freedoms I have giving me faith that I would stand up for my ideals if the time came for such actions.
Il numero 5 del codice di catalogo rivela che lo consigliano a ragazzi già grandi, ma è pur sempre nella sezione non-adulti.
196 pagine: le prime 73 narrano la storia dei giovani Scholl e del tentativo di resistenza al regime hitleriano conclusosi con la loro condanna a morte.
Le pagine restanti contengono il testo dei volantini sovversivi che i ragazzi stampavano e distribuivano in università.
Non ho voluto guardare il film prima di leggere il libro: ora posso cercarlo, nella speranza che non abbia rovinato la semplicità e il coraggio della storia di questi ragazzi.
Being very interested in the White Rose, I've read or collected or given away about five different books on it, mostly focused 90% on geschwister Scholl, Hans and Sophie.
This book, compiled and edited by their sister Inge (who added a 60-page introduction) is especially good because it has all the leaflets of the White Rose and the two later ones "of the Resistance" translated into English.
The German texts can be got from the German original of this translation, which will show alongside this English version in goodreads.
It reads"SCHOLL -- Sophie and HansPROBST -- ChristophFeb 22 1943 Stadelheim Prison.
Knowing nothing of The White Rose and its members, I read this book after my wife brought it home (college research for the win!).
I learned about war-torn Germany during WWII, and about the heroic young people that dared to stand up and say "No more!" Hans and Sophie Scholl did something very few could have done, and while they were killed for it their idea lived on.
They are remembered to this day as martyrs, as are their fellow members of The White Rose.
Whether you know about the war, Germany, or The White Rose is irrelevant.
I was surprised to know about this group of civil resistants in the Nazi Germany.
Few students could have the moral courage to defy a despotic regime like the nazi and put their lives at risk!
I was also amazed to the extent of which i found similarity between those courageous German's story and the stories of many of my Syrian countrymen who defied Assad's brutal regime in a peaceful and intellectual way during the first months of our revolution.
If this book proves anything, it proves that freedom is engraved in our genes and no totalitarian regime could ever snatches it off of its citizens.
