https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16374.The_Most_of_P_G_Wodehouse
It took me a good ten months to finish this, but that's not the book's fault - it simply sat by my bedside for long stretches in between readings.
I will attest, however, that keeping this book by the bedside is one of the best ways to enjoy it.
Wodehouse's short fiction is similar enough as to be potentially tedious when read all in a chunk; however, spacing it out over individual nights allows for one to enjoy the familiarity while appreciating the language and wit that makes each story unique.
Perfect for enjoying as a before-bed tidbit, especially with a nightcap.
http://www.abebooks.com/docs/RareBook... PG says the Wooster world was real, upper-class Britain between the wars; his dialogue is like a TV show, fast repartee; his silly names put faces on eccentrics bursting with life and fun. http://books.simonandschuster.com/Mos... I may never find the rest of this book, but I can treasure this glimpse.
This chunky volume contains a wide range of Wodehouse stories and situations, conveniently grouped, including Jeeves (of course), Mulliner, Ukridge, Drones Club, and more. The variety is interesting, although it proved that my interest in Wodehouse stories falls off rapidly once the Jeeves canon has been fired, so to speak. There are only five Jeeves stories here, a mere 100 pages of more than 600, so if you're seeking only his company it's probably best to look elsewhere for your entertainment. That said, this does provide a convenient sampler if you want to see what else Wodehouse has to offer.
What I learned from this book was that I should never get rid of it no matter how badly it's falling apart. I like that the book presents a sampling of short stories from each of the Wodehouse's various series of short stories. I first read these stories in the 1970's and still laugh as I reread them. My favorite series of stories is the golfing stories, but my favorite individual story is that all-time classic 'A Bit of Luck for Mable.'
Here's an example of why people read for fun:"How long Archibald slept he could not have said.
The walls seemed to be vibrating like the deck of an ocean liner...."His spirit was not so completely broken as to make him lie supinely down beneath that snoring.
The sound filled him, as snoring fills every right-thinking man, with a seething resentment and a passionate yearning for justice, and he climbed out of bed with the intention of taking the proper steps through the recognized channels.
And this is what Archibald proposed - God willing - to do" (p.186).
On the cover of my paperback copy, it claims to be "the most lavish collection" of Wodehouse stories "ever published." Likely true.
There are 31 amusingly sculpted short stories and a delightful novel, Quick Service.
As one who majored in English Literature, I must say that Sir Pelham Grenville Wodehouse, KBE and the man who brought Jeeves into the world, continues to deserve the attention he so rightly earned as one of the most widely read British humorists of the 20th century.
If you adored John Cleese in Faulty Towers, as I did and do, I'm quite sure you would enjoy the stories of P.G. Wodehouse.
Try a short story.
Enjoy
Its Wodehouse. Nobody needs me to tell them why this is a five star read.
If you recall the bits Monty Python did about twits,(twits being stupid, homely, awkward, worthless members of the wealthy class in England, I think), this is the same group Wodehouse was making fun of years before.They are forever falling in "love at first sight" with some ravishing vicar's daughter, with limpid blue eyes, and curly blond hair, who refuses to give them the time of day until theya)dress better b)do volunteer work c)take up golf, or some other remote challenge that will keep them out of her sight for a while.Mr. Mulliner is a permanent fixture at the bar at The Angler's Rest, which I imagine to be something like Fawlty Towers.
As I recently acquired Jeeves & Wooster - The Complete Series, I have to say that Laurie and Fry captured the characters so perfectly that I now hear their voices in my head when I read the J&W tales.
Wooster's cronies at The Drones Club are represented by seven stories - "Tried in the Furnace" and "Goodbye to All Cats" are particularly hilarious.
Wodehouse's sense of humor and command of the English language make his stories and novels an absolute joy to read, and this anthology is probably one of the best introductions out there.
P.G. Wodehouse is one of those authors I have always meant to read as his name seems to always come up in strange places (Trivial Pursuit, Gilmore Girls), and I seem to always have known who Jeeves and Wooster were, without knowing the full context.This collection includes a large selection of his most-known characters, not excluding, of course, the upstanding Jeeves.
I will eventually read the Jeeves novels, but for now I'm happy to take a break from Wodehouse's worlds.
The best: the Jeeves stories, the short novel "Quick Service", and a short story called "The Reverent Wooing of Archibald" which I highly recommend.
In another sense, he found with all his writing something worth more than words can say: a small, happy spot kept bright in a world that seemed only to be darkening around it.
Surely that’s enough for one man."
Unfortunately, P.G. Wodehouse is mostly ignored these days, even though he wrote some of the best and funniest prose of the past century.
This almost 700 page anthology provides a wonderful introduction to the various Wodehouse universes; for those unfamiliar to Wodehouse, or for those wanting to move past the Jeeves and Wooster stories (but why would you, unless you've read them all?) this is a must have collection that fits nicely into a satchel, purse, briefcase or backpack, and provides more and varied entertainment than basic cable.
Of course, there is the requisite Jeeves and Wooster, as well.
It's an anthology of short stories, with 1 novel tossed on at the end, so pretty much you can pick it up, flip to anywhere at random, read for 20 minutes, and set it back down having finished a story.
A pleasant diversion, if trifling.I've read all of Jeeves and the first 2 short stories in each of the other collections, but I'm probably done.
I just don't love them as much as Tamra does.--update: Most or all of the Jeeves' stories here are from The Inimitable Jeeves, which is already an inferior Jeeves collection in itself.
I recommend skipping this collection altogether and heading straight for a Jeeves-only book.
Among the several anthologies of the Master one can't go wrong, but this is the one I've known for fifty-four years.
It was pub 1960 by Simon and Schuster in hardback.
Got a used hardback on ABE for my niece a few years ago.
The stories are divided into Drones Club (7) Mr Mulliner (8), Ukridge (5), one with Lord Emsworth, five Golf, and five Jeeves.Many will be familiar to aficionados but it's so handy to have them between two covers.
Only in this book did I discover Ukridge and the Golf stories.
P.G. Wodehouse is the master of what only he can do, which, though simple, is difficult to describe. I can read his books at any point of my life, as many times as I like, and they give the same satisfaction every time. If you see me reading a book and laughing out loud, it's probably Wodehouse. "The Most" is probably the finest collection of his stories, mostly Jeeves and Wooster. For me, it's a 'desert island" book.
As genius as Wodehouse is, it's possible man just wasn't designed to read him 700 pages at a time. I feel as though I will go around the next few days saying "I say, old bean! What ho!" at everyone I meet.
My go-to book in times of distress.
I didn't know who PG Wodehouse was until I picked the omnibus up at Strand. I skipped a few stories but I fell in love with Jeeves and Bertie so I found the trade off fair. British humor at its best.
Perfect Wodehouse!
Let’s just say I may read nothing but P.G. Wodehouse from now on.Well, just kidding, but what's not to love?
This book is a nice mix of various characters and types of stories.
They're not ALL like the Jeeves/Bertie Wooster tales!
See my progress notes.One criticism of this volume -- the first and second stories in the "Jeeves" section are in the wrong order.
The second story clearly should precede the one printed first.
Not that it impinges on enjoyment of the stories, but the one entitled "Purity of the Turf" refers to "The Great Sermon Handicap," so the latter should be the first in the book!
Wodehouse really is one of the best comedic authors of all time. I knew Id love the Jeeves stories going in, but it really says something when you can get me laughing in a collection of stories about golf- a sport I know and care absolutely nothing about.
Stanley Featherstonehaugh UkridgeHow Wodehouse can write about a lazy, thieving, good-for-nothing fellow and make him amusing is amazing.Lord EmsworthAnother of Wodehouse's amusing characters - drawn so clearly one feels that one knows him.
This was my introduction to Wodehouse. There will be a lot more of his stories in my future!
Funny and brilliant writing with memorable characters. You have to give Wodehouse 5 stars for the writing style alone :)
Not the typical laugh-out-loud Wodehouse.
So very enjoyable! Lots of laughs.
Good old-fashioned highbrow madcap humor. I want to watch all the movies they made about these stories. Really fun reading
Excellent short stories that made me laugh often.
Not quite enough Jeeves....but, still : )
