https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144350.The_Battle_for_Skandia
The Battle for Skandia (Ranger's Apprentice, #4), John Flanaganتاریخ نخستین خوانش: پانزدهم فوریه سال 2013 میلادی عنوان: نبرد اسکاندیا - جنگاوران جوان کتاب چهارم؛ نویسنده: جان آنتونی فلانیگان (فلناگان)؛ مترجم: مسعود ملک یاری؛ تهران، افق، 1391؛ در 430 ص؛ مجموعه جنگاوران جوان کتاب 4؛ شابک: 9789643699017؛ موضوع: رمان نوجوانان و داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 مپانزده سال است که اهالی آرالوئن در صلح و صفا روزگار میگذرانند.
چرا که مورگاراث اهریمنی نتوانسته پایش را از کوهستان باران و ظلمت بیرون بگذارد.
اما او بار دیگر دسیسه کرده است.
ولی اهالی «یل» فرار کرده یا اسیر شده‌ اند....
Holy Bananas!Book Four in the Ranger's Apprentice not only makes up for the lack luster book Three, it left it my fists pumping in the air! Book Three basically set up the events for book Four, in which the ranger Halt and the warrior apprentice Horace were in search of the missing princess Evelyn and the ranger apprentice Will. But enough of the pleasantries and onto the action! Book Four, or the Battle for Skandia, is non stop action. Grab it now and enjoy!
Amazing. I've loved this series since Ruins of Gorlan the first book. It's suspenseful, action packed, and fun to read. It really makes you want to read. I really love how mortal enemies can come together to save their world. John Flanagan did a great job with this book and all his others. Really, really good.
Four solid stars.
The plot is solid but not confusingly complex.
The characters we met in earlier books return again, guarding each other's back, including Will, Horace, Evanlyn, Halt, Erak, etc.
There is maybe too much time spent on battle scenes, but the tactics were interesting and the fight did not feel overwhelming.
Kudos to the author for creating credible (not Mary Sue) action scenes with the young princess, Evanlyn / Cassandra.There is a good map and a fun app at the author's website: http://www.worldofjohnflanagan.com/ra...
There are few books that manage such a level of consistency - and that's a compliment, though it doesn't sound really like one.
Normally in a series there are some good books, some not so good ones, great characters, characters that piss you off...
the Ranger's Apprentice series has had nothing but a consistently engaging plotline, an incredible cast of loveable and a fascinating setting.
It gave Evanlyn the chance to grow in her character.
He still isn't back to his usual self (for most of the book) and he got a little weird towards the end.
The Battle for Skandia is the fourth book in the Ranger's Apprentice series.What can I say?
These books are just incredibly relaxing for me to read.
I don't have to think and can just enjoy it.Though in this particularly there were some things I would have liked differently.
Most importantly I would have liked the book to deal with Will's trauma a bit more.
I feel like he should have some form of PTSD.
I also feel like the series could use a bit more direction at this point.
Just like some kind of road trip?
A bit direction would be appreciated.Apart from that, I'm still enjoying the series.
This is the fourth installment in the Ranger's Apprentice series and takes place in Skandia, where Will and Evanlyn have been for nearly a year.
When Halt and Horace arrive to rescue their friends, they must join forces with their enemies in order to return home.
But enemies have a habit of becoming friends.I was glad that Will was back and mostly himself in this novel because I missed him for the majority of the previous installment.
Evanlyn is friends with both Horace and Will and they both obviously care for her a great deal.
The books are very easy to pick up and Flanagan's style draws you into the story.
Modern authors and movie-makers rarely understand medieval warfare.
They are used to modern weapons like machine guns and artillery, so they use archers and catapults like automatic rifles and cannons.
His battle is interesting, clever, realistic and above all, plausible.
The strategies the commanders use make sense, the tactics the warriors use are realistic, and oveall, I finished the book feeling like "that could have really happened".
I reread this book just for that.
The fourth book in the Ranger's Apprentice series was an action filled adventure living up to the first three stories.
It is easy to make connections to wonderful stories, sagas and histories while reading about Will in his adventures.
It's a little like a simpler Lord of the Rings or even Robin Hood story which is action packed, full of fantasy, admirable characters and morals for all ages of readers.
Certainly, the stories leave you wanting the next episode.
I certainly can't wait to read book number 5.
Ooh, this one is where the series really starts to take an upward turn for the better.
I'm going chronologically within the series, so I'm reading number seven after this, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Oh, and it appealed to my rapidly growing interest in military history; the description of the titular Battle for Skandia is incredibly detailed and descriptive.
This is one part where the series excels - the battles.
To my knowledge the battle was fairly realistic as well, and how it was fought minor skirmishes, with one large pitched battle.
This is also where camaraderie really starts picking up; I love, love everyone's dynamic with each other.
This was by far the best book out of the first four. All of those books have a lot of description. A large amount of times in this one it dozes off, descripting one character or one object for pretty much a whole page. Everything else was outstanding. I would reccomend this book to anyone really. Even if you DESPISE mideval fantasy. If you don't like reading, I wouldn't read this book because listening to the descriptions will be a waste of your time.
Most of the book was about the battle, which I actually don't mind.
Once again, I'm almost certain Flanagan had done lots of research because the terms and descriptions and battle strategies and whatnot seemed very realistic and believable.
I'm not a huge fan of the writing style; it seemed to be a bit too explanatory in places I thought already were self explanatory if that makes sense.
Nor am i a fan of the Skandians or the front cover :P But ah the ending!!!!
The ending made the whole read worth it.
So bittersweet.
Looking forward to the next book.
3.5 نسبت به جلدای قبلی روند کند و ماجرای ساده ای داشت. با این حال هنوز هم از خوندن این مجموعه لذت میبرم. خیلی داستان واقع گرایانه ایه و برای من که بیشتر، داستانای فانتزی، تخیلی...ترسناک و... خوندم تجربه ی دلنشینیه :)
Plot-4 StarsCharacters-5 StarsSetting-3 StarsBetween Will, Halt, Horace, Cassandra and Erak I loved all the characters. That is the biggest reason why I keep coming back. The plot is good but it's the characters that really make you want to turn the page. In this series, there are no surprises (Unless this is the first book you have ever read) but again he does his characters well and same for his writing.Would I read the next in the series? I already have.
Blijft erg leuk om naar te luisteren! Bij dit luisterboek was ik wel een stuk minder gegrepen door "Het grote gevecht"
The skandian kings servant Erak helped save Will and Evanlyn escape from Skandia.
They went and saved and Evanlyn while Horace who was an apprentice knight killed two of the temujai easily.
Halt had experience in wars and strategies thats why Erak wanted Halt to help them in the war against the temujai.
Halt, Horace, Will, and Evanlyn went to skandia to fight off the temujai.
They took out half the temujai and they would've lost if will and halt hadn't thought of the archer idea.
After that the skandians celebrated there victory and Halt, Horace, Will, and Evanlyn went back to Castle Araluen to celebrate with the king.
As Will, a ranger's apprentice, Horace, a warrior apprentice, and Halt a full fledged ranger begin to leave the cold frozen land of Skandia they find a whole army of the marauding Temujai horseman ready to invade and destroy the entire realm and then directly after the realm of Araluen, our heroes' homeland.
In this book our heroes and the Skandians must cover up long fueds of war, and team up to fight back at the massive Temujai army, hoping to stop them in their tracks from conquering both kingdoms.
Can the Skandians and Araulens bond together defeat the marauding Temujai or will they themselves be defeated?
Happy because the book was just plain awesome, and although the ending was a touch melancholy, it was perfect.
Sad because this book marks the end of Will's time as an apprentice to Halt (with the exception of book 7 of course, although he was practically full-fledged in that one.), and it also ends my favorite part of the series.
I'm pretty sure I cried when Halt and Will were reunited; it couldn't have been more touching and awesome!
(Not to mention when Halt gets seasick, too funny!)The battle=total epicness.
This book is one my treasures, and one of my all-time favorites!
خب فوق العاده بود دیگه :) این دفعه نسخه ی آمریکایی رو خوندم.
جدا از اینکه اسم استرالیایی رو خیلی بیشتر دوست دارم، هنوزم حس می کنم یه تیکه هایی از جنگ نبودش اینجا.
یه سری قسمت ها بعد از حمله ی تموجای ها به کمان دارا و تموم شدن جنگ...
و غیر از اون هم یه فکر بسیار مبهمی دارم که انگار ماجراهای هلت و ارک روی کشتی اینقدر کم نبود :-؟از همینجا خواهش می کنم، اگه کسی استرالیاییش رو دم دست داره بهم بده.
من کلاً تموم فایلام با کامپیوترم به فنا رفت متاسفانه :|+ چرا اینا توی چلنج امسال میاد؟ :| باید بعداً بشینم و تاریخ همه شون رو بذارم برای قبلاً :|:|
A definite improvement compared to the last book. This book has a lot of good action scenes all the way through. I would almost say it's a little  too much action because sometimes it dragged on a bit. It kind of feels like the third book and this one could easily have been just 1 book if they had less unnecessary scenes filling the pages. Still a good read, though.Also, I still hope for some more interesting female characters as the story progresses. I like Evanlyn but there should be more than just one.
This is such a fun and epic and enjoyable installment in this series! There were so many amusing parts and exciting parts and it was just awesomesauce in general. I can't wait to continues with this series, hopefully books 5 and 6 and all the rest are this much fun. The end was fantastic and I really do love Evanlyn, seeing her badass side was nice and I can't wait to read more about her, bc she's the freaking best.
The beggining was too slow for me, but once I got past that it was good.Will is finally freeJust to turn around and fight with the enemyHalt has to help the Skandians winSo they can all become friends
Quite good, nearly 5 stars..
So far the best book in the series! I really really enjoyed this one and I couldn't put it down. Cleverly written, action-packed with great characterization. Simply perfect.
Even at the reunion that ended the book, going as far as to have the other battle masters and guardian/nanny around but not the other orphans?
Then there is a battle, a grand end-of-the-world affair which has been shown as typical for the series and I suppose when fighting every skirmish does feel like the whole world is in chaos.
(view spoiler)[Then the return to Arluen was funny, apart from the neglect of 'closest friends' which will make casting for a movie series easier with absent characters remaining so, I mentioned above.> (hide spoiler)]Two points where choices did not make sense:(view spoiler)[ 1.
(view spoiler)[At the battle, and the king talking with Holt shore to ship (hide spoiler)]
Trying to keep up with my 11 year old but am further behind.
He recommended 17/5 stars so I'm guessing this a perfect series for the target demographic.After the last book I'm glad we're back to adventuring and the rangers doing what they do best, helping win wars!
My only real complaint at this point is that we seem to have gotten away from a fantasy that the first two books were, there are no strange monsters or magic at all anymore.
I guess it's easier to write if you don't have to make up your own world.
Another solid installment in the Ranger’s Apprentice series and possibly my favorite so far along with the first one.
I mentioned in my review of the first book that the characters seemed a bit in the young side, but I would say they’ve caught up beautifully and definitely seem more in the 16-17 year old category for all they’ve been through.
This chapter of the story wrapped up nicely with no cliffhangers and will be a nice place to bask in the satisfying storytelling for a bit before jumping to the next book.
I’m a hearty fan of the series and suspect I will continue to enjoy subsequent adventures.
Humor was a solid strength in this book, as Halt's small size was juxtaposed with Erak's massiveness, and the Skandians' simple tactic-less fighting was pointed out in matter-of-fact ways.
I know we barely knew them, but I thought Alyss was meant for Will, and Jenny for Horace.
I guess with Horace becoming a great knight, he's far above Jenny's station now, which is unfortunate.
Those minor quibbles aside, it was great to see Halt and Will and Horace back in all their glory.
Rangers Apprentice Series by John Flanagan.The Ranger's Apprentice series by John Flanagan is one of my favorite series of all time, and it deserves the hype.The series is told from the eyes of Will, a young boy living in a world of kings, knights and castles;the middle ages.Rangers answer only to the king, they're skilled archers and are at the centre of every battle, their spies and are skilled in espionage, while also being envoys. This series is a YA version of The Game of Thrones.
This is such a fantastic series—everyone needs to be reading this. This book concludes a three-novel story arc that shaped our young heroes’ destinies and clinched the friendship of unlikely allies. Can’t wait for the next one!
