https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9432161-crime-at-christmas
All he seems to do for the first half of the book is eat, take naps (so many naps!!) and complain about the people he has to spend the holidays with.
I mean, I get it, that comes pretty close to my routine on Christmas, but reading about what the protagonist eats, when he drinks his tea and how often he naps is just not the most interesting thing to read about, especially in a murder mystery.
Even though the protagonist annoyed me, I still enjoyed reading this overall and think it's a good cozy mystery to curl up with during Christmas time!
I don’t think I’ve ever hoped that the narrator would be bumped off before, but this book managed to make me WANT that to happen, quite badly. Utterly tedious.
2.5?Il giallo c’è, ed è una scopiazzatura di Agatha Christie. I personaggi sono tanti, descritti così sommariamente da rimanere solo per poco tempo nella mente del lettore. Il narratore è “freddo” nelle descrizioni e nella narrazione in generale. Poco coinvolgimento porta il lettore ad annoiarsi e a chiedersi dove voglia andare a parare lo scrittore. Un meh, insomma.
I've read other books from the 30's, and most survived the test of time. But this? It's ridiculous, bordering on preposterous. If you could boil down the book into actionable moments, I truly think it's 40 pages long. The rest is narcissistic ruminations by the protagonist. Why didn't someone throw him off the balcony and put the reader out of their misery?This is the book that will make me rethink my 'once you start, you must finish' philosophy.
Crime at Christmas was an interesting read.
Not your usual Golden Age mystery, it features a stockbroker-turned-detective-but-not-really who mostly observes in lieu of active sleuthing (at times I found his passivity a bit irritating, though he has some excuse due to an injury suffered during a game of, of all things, musical chairs).
Still, he provides an engrossing narration, and there are other interesting characters here as well, especially the larger-than-life Dr. Green.
When the book winds up, there's an unexpected bonus as the narrator strolls through the fourth wall and answers questions from the reader.
I will definitely be re-reading this unusual take on the classic English murder mystery.
Crime at Christmas is the second novel in a short series of four books featuring Malcolm Warren.
With regards to the latter, Warren is somewhat of a fey, upper-class gentleman character and reluctant detective who hoards clues to protect reputations rather than handing them over to the police.
Kitchin spins the tale out in an engaging fashion with a vivid cast of characters.
However, in the latter half of the book the story starts to unravel, with the solution to the puzzle being a little ridiculous and difficult to believe, and the denouement weak.
Overall, an engaging and mildly amusing story that suffers from a weak resolution.
All my favourite ingredients for a good ol' crime tale – a manor house, a cornucopia of guests, an amateur sleuth, grisly murders and a vast array of suspects.I raced through this. Once the first, fairly grim death was discovered I was gripped. Eager to find out what other delights C.H.B Kitchin would offer his readers. I wasn't disappointed! I was kept guessing right until the end.Perfect for fans of the British Library Crime Classics series and Agatha Christie. I'm very happy that this forgotten mystery has been brought back to light and given a fresh, attractive cover.
Ne viene fuori una descrizione a tutto tondo sia dei personaggi che della storia, che coinvolge il lettore in prima persona.Ho trovato molto ben architettato il mistero nascosto dietro la morte della prima vittima, allo stesso modo mi sono piaciuti i legami creati tra i vari interlocutori del nostro protagonista e solo alla fine del romanzo si capisce cosa sia accaduto davvero.Un giallo di tutto rispetto assolutamente da leggere e cosa ancor più deliziosa è stata l’aver scoperto che dello stesso autore con il medesimo protagonista esistono altri libri da potersi gustare.
Entertaining "golden age" crime story. I particularly liked the last chapter where the "reader" interrogates the narrator to tie up all the loose ends
Then he goes to the house of his client and the client’s wife (whose protégé he is) for Christmas, and murder ensues.Malcolm is a very delicate flower for an amateur detective, requiring many hours of bed rest whenever he sprains his wrist or finds a body.
(view spoiler)[Fortunately, after Malcolm has had a good cry over one of the murderees, with whom I suspect he had more going on than we were told (“Who was there now, in that household, to whom I could turn in my distress?” he laments.
“Who else would massage my wrist with such gentleness and sureness?”), he takes a shine to the police inspector.
It’s such a treat to be able to read Christmas books during the festive period!
However, when a body is discovered the next morning, a Christmas break turns into an investigation, knowing that the murderer is likely to be within the house they are sharing.I was half-way through this story when I decided to read the blurb.
Whilst this was frustrating, the plot was utterly compelling and I didn’t know where it would go next.Crime at Christmas isn’t edgy, fast-paced drama, but it has that feel of Agatha Christie’s writing that makes you want to curl up with it and get lost in a different society.
A fun, well-written Golden Age mystery, taking place over a Christmas weekend at a large house in Hampstead. Family complications and financial skulduggery bring murder into a Christmas party. The wrap-up dialogue between the reader and a character is particularly fun. If you like classic mysteries of the country-house type (although this is more a suburban house), this will be right up your alley. If Kitchin's books were still in print or easier to get hold of, I'd happily read more.
This is an enjoyable grand house murder mystery, although set in London rather than the usual country setting. It did rely on coincidence a bit too much for my liking though.
I don't know if this is typical of all the stories.Malcolm Warren is a stock broker and gets invited to a big client's home for Christmas, it seems that he is on close terms with the family.
As Warren starts to actually get more involved.By the end, when the killer is revealed- and since we don't get to see all the information but most it is on the edge of "almost fair-play but just just." So, in terms of a holiday story, it was all right but there are other ones of this genre that are better.
Stockbroker Malcolm Warren is invited to spend Christmas with one of his clients, Axel Quisberg.
Christmas Eve is fairly dismal: Quisberg and his secretary, Harley, spend the night at a hotel trying to organise a business deal, while Warren is stuck with Quisberg's wife, stepchildren and assorted hangers-on, and sprains his wrist while dancing.
Christmas morning is even worse, when Warren wakes up to find another guest, Harley's mother, dead outside his window.This is a quirky little book that meanders along at a gentle pace.
It all finishes with an odd little chapter in which Warren is interviewed by a Reader, tying up all the loose ends.
Delightful classic mystery set at Christmas in a manor house on Hampstead Heath in London. The narrator is a likable hero, a paradoxically sensitive, intellectual stockbroker who says he is out of place among the brokers in the City and the artists in Bloomsbury. The plot unfolds at a good pace, but I found myself just enjoying the company of the narrator, an unlikely sleuth with his nervousness and near swoons, as he tries to put the pieces of the puzzle together.
Un buon giallo di Natale, con la classica atmosfera inglese ed un omicidio abbastanza improbabile ad avvenire nella notte di Natale. Quello che forse e' manca al libro e' un bel colpo di scena finale, sebbene il finale dato dall'autore e' molto logico ed aderente ai fatti narrati. Nota fortemente stonata e' il capitolo finale con il dialogo tra Warren ed il presunto lettore, mi e' sembrato completamente fuori luogo e brutto da leggere.
I kept wanting to smack the main character.
A very satisfying and superior mystery.
I couldn't finish this one. The lack of actual detecting and the inclusion of dull introspection made this move so slowly that I stopped caring about either the characters or the plot.
I loved the idea of this story, but it was so boring! I really had to force myself finishing it. Not the cozy Christmas reading I was expecting.
It might be time to stop reading Kitchin.
I loved his book The Murder of My Aunt, and over the years, I've tried to recapture how delighted I was with it by reading his other books, and it just doesn't work.
As with many of the Golden Age type books, I find I love the first quarter or 1/3, and then I get bored.
I think mystery writing has gotten much more interesting, deeper, layered, emotionally relevant...I could go on and on.
But wow, I really think there's a huge difference...I'm going to stop here.
It's been many, many years since I read one of Kitchin's books, and I must admit this is cleverly done.
His narrator Malcolm Warren (featured as well in his first book) is as irritating, and almost as obtuse, as ever.
Malcolm is visiting one of his clients over Christmas, when an inoffensive fellow guest dies in a freak accident.
There's something in the atmosphere of the luxurious Hampstead mansion that gets on Malcolm's nerves, but not until there's a clear-cut murder do the police arrive.
Unfortunately, the victim is the one guest Malcolm related to, and his paranoia climbs as he fears the police will consider him a suspect.
Although the book was very enjoyable to read, the protagonist's discoveries were often due much more to luck than his own intelligence, and it was actually the inspector who discovered the murderer - which I found slightly disappointing. Furthermore, I found the lack of interesting discoveries about all characters a little boring and the actual murderer reveal lacklustre and perhaps slightly unlikely. If you're looking for a Christmas mystery, I wouldn't advise you against this one, as it was enjoyable, but there are better ones out there.
Some reviewers have been less than enthusiastic about this book, but I loved it. After a slowish start, the reader gets to know sleuthing stockbroker Malcolm Warren and sense that although he isn't going to solve the mystery by himself he is a great device for working ones own way through the clues. He is also deeply thoughtful - most often when he is trying to sleep, when all sorts of poetic imagery escapes his mind onto the page. Set in a period after the First World War when Hampstead was still largely countryside, it is a wonderful period piece.
An excellent introduction to the work of Kitchin. It is great that a lot of his work is being reprinted. This one is a good seasonal murder story set in the 1930s and has lots of twists and turns. It is the second in a series of four books featuring Malcolm Warren, a stockbroker with a knack of getting embroiled in crime. The first of the series is Death of My Aunt, the third is Death of his Uncle and the fourth, which is hard to find, The Cornish Fox.
My third Christmas crime read of December. Very similar to the other 2 (i.e. a country house style mystery) this is more of a light hearted affair, the 'hero' is a stockbroker staying with a client in Hampstead...In fairness there isn't a great deal of 'detecting' going on, and I'm not sure you'd guess who did it. Still it was another enjoyable festive romp, albeit let down by the last chapter which is, frankly bizarre and a large misstep...
I am a fan of Golden Age detective fiction and Kitchin is a new find for me. His narrator, Malcolm Warren, can be a bit irritating, somewhat of a hypochondriac. Unfortunately the character of the murderer could have been better developed so his motivation was more believable. It was a good story but could have been better with more believable characters although some of the minor characters were quite well developed and repulsive.
Very date, it was written in 1929, not my thing really.
Incredibly hammy. Bloody loved it.
