https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112754.Kiss_of_the_Highlander
It seems that I'm deteriorating into some obscure form of madness in which time-travelling, historical romance can illicit a four star rating out of me.They should name a damn charitable foundation after me to help other people suffering from this obscure mental illness.But it's honestly not my fault.
I'm only glad I wasn't a fan of such books BEFORE I read Moning's, because otherwise she would have ruined Historical Romances as thoroughly for me as she's ruined Urban Fantasy with her Fever Series.Simply because she can, the heartless bitch!

BUT, the plan fails (doesn't it always), and Gwen finds herself alone in the past, with Drustan and his family believing her a crazed woman wanting to trap him in marriage XD Overall  - This was such a great read, it really got me by surprise!
- Gwen's first conversation with the Drustan from the past XD- when they lock him up to have the second conversation 
Drustan and Gwen's story - I enjoyed this book, it was my first KMM book ever!
This is one of KMM's funniest books.
I love how Gwen was looking for a cherry picker to rid her of her virginity then when she saw Drustan she thought he looked more like a cherry tree chopper downer than a cherry picker.
Gwen was a great heroine, she was intelligent, honorable and smart enough to figure out how to trap Drustan in his own guarderobe.
This story was a great set up for the next book, Dark Highlander.
★★★★★5 Transcending stars <3★★★★★Absolutely delightful read ! An intelligent hero, a kick-ass heroine,fabulous plot AND Time-Travel,What more could I have asked for? It almost felt like a believable fairy-tale. Their love was absolutely transcendent and I loved how effortlessly the author handled the time-travel concept.(which,believe me,is a RARE talent.)Would highly recommend this read and Yes,defiantly planning on reading the squeal ASAP :) This series in Ratings  so far:  #1 Beyond the Hi
Their love was absolutely transcendent and I loved how effortlessly the author handled the time-travel concept.(which,believe me,is a RARE talent.)Would highly recommend this read and Yes,defiantly planning on reading the squeal ASAP :)
(Review=https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)#2 To Tame A Highland Warrior - 1 Star :( [The ONLY book in this series I rated so low.]Here's why->(Review=https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)#3 The Highlander's Touch - 3 Stars (Not bad but not that great either.*Shrug*)#4 Kiss of the Highlander - 5 Stars !!
(Review = https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)#5 The Dark Highlander -4 Stars :) (Review = https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
)#6 The Immortal Highlander - 4.75 Stars !
#7 Spell of the Highlander - 4 Stars.
Should death come anon, ‘twill be my life for yours.
I am Given.”This book had everything and then some that I look for in a story.
Secondary characters that play a huge role in the plot and are so intriguing, you hope that you get more of them, in future books or stories of their own.
Thank you to my dear friend Kristen, who convinced me to step out of the box and read out of order.
Thank you!!Finally to Kris, who told me about her love for this series a while back.
2.5 starsWhelp I am in the minority. I enjoyed the first part of this book but the last 2/3's were not for me. I also just can't stand the term "make love" or "Love making" and found this book incredibly frustrating and too much instalove. There were moments I enjoyed, I want to read the next book but overall to cheesy for me. Maybe because of the year it was published? Moving on.
The author created characters you come to love with a plot that will pull at your heart strings and give you a chuckle now and then.
A definite keeper!!
Kiss of the Highlander is definitely a 5 star read and I highly recommend it!
I look forward to reading more of Ms. Moning's work.In short:Hero 5/5 | Heroine 5/5 | Plot (Point, Originality) 5/5 | Writing Style 5/5 | Steam 4/5 | Romance 5/5 | Angst-Suspense 4/5 | Darkness 0/5 | Humor 3/5 | Secondary Characters 4/5 | Drama-Conflict 5/5 | Mystery 4/5 | Twists 5/5 | Pacing Steady | Action 4/5
I couldn't help but smile while reading this book. I simply fell in love with the love story. This book had a clever plot, fascinating characters, steamy romance, and great writing. Definitely a keeper!
KISS OF A HIGHLANDER Okay, now I have your attention I would like to say - hasnt the model on the cover of this book have the most kissable lips you have ever seen? What I would give to have them babies roaming my body...oh my - im sweating here.... LMAO...Okay, now the review -Well, well, well looky what I stumbled across here – HUNKY HIGHLANDERS – my lordy lord, this book was more than I ever perceived it was going to be. If it wasn’t for my fabulous GR friend, Nissie, I would not have taken t
LMAO...Okay, now the review -Well, well, well looky what I stumbled across here – HUNKY HIGHLANDERS – my lordy lord, this book was more than I ever perceived it was going to be.
If it wasn’t for my fabulous GR friend, Nissie, I would not have taken the plunge to read this so soon.Okay so about the story – This is my first time travelling book, and initially my thoughts on time travel are simply – meh – but when introduced to Drustan MacKeltar who is from the 16th century, I melted.
The sleeping beauty, Drustan, had been slept for 500 years and he was a bit lost when he woke up in 21st century, but Gwen helped him found his way.This was a great love story!I had a goofy smile while I was reading it from the beginning until the end.
The story is basically divided into two parts.-The first part is taking place in the 21st century when Drustan wakes up and Gwen thinks he is completely crazy-The second part is taking place in the 16th century when Gwen travels back in time, Drustan does not remember her and he thinks she is completely crazy.I honestly wished I had read this book and the ones that follow before the Fever series by Moning.
I really enjoy the fact that KMM's heroines tend to be very intelligent and capable.
Her heroines tend to be on the physically perfect side, but they are so nice, it doesn't annoy me.
The scene where Gwen says she loves him just melted my heart because it meant so much to Drustan.
I really loved the tender moments between Drustan and Gwen, and also between his father Silvan and his housekeeper, Nell.
I like that she has plausible science and mixes the Druid lore with physics and mathematics so that you read this book and can definitely believe that Druid magic is just science in a different framework of understanding.The part that annoyed me was the priest's mother, Besseta.
Once again, KMM gave us a more-than-wonderful hero (Drustan MacKeltar) but, this time, she gave us an amazing heroine (Gwen Cassidy) who, I admit, I loved better than the hero.
When she locked him in the garderobe to force him into "seeing reason", I did a little happy dance - only in my mind, of course...While I was reading the book, I kept wondering how KMM would solve the "changing the past" issue.
(hide spoiler)] Aaargh, my mind went a little crazy over this, until I reached KMM's "resolution".
I prayed, prayed, PRAYED that after my recent "4 in row crappy books" that this would be the one to pull me out of my reading funk...IT DID! Yay for me! I'm back in the game :D I've said this many times that I am not big on Historical romance reads. So it's no surprise that Highlanders for the most part are not my cup of tea. Although there have been some "Gems" in my past. Though I do not follow this series (I've only read this one & book 6) & love both, I would recommend this series ba
Though I do not follow this series (I've only read this one & book 6) & love both, I would recommend this series based on the fact that I am a fan of Ms. Moning's Fever series, which was born from this series.
Drustan (H) & the story.
I would say that I do love Gwen as well.
I feel her & Drustan are perfectly matched.
Their coupling, how it begins to where it leads, was beyond entertaining, heartfelt, & frustratingly erotic.I would definitely recommend you read this book.
Sin embargo, la segunda mitad atrapará hasta al lector más exigente en este género: intrigas, magia, pasión, excelentes diálogos y un despliegue de personajes muy queribles, que conquistan con su actuar y que entregan una historia secundaria muy emotiva.
Aunque he leído que los libros de la serie Highlander de la autora son independientes entre sí, éste en particular tiene una continuación que se deja entrever en sus últimas páginas: "El highlander oscuro".
I'm going to go with a middle of the road 3 Stars, because while I didn't love it I didn't hate it either.Brief Summary of the Storyline:  This is Gwen and Drustan's story.
There are some funny moments, some sexy times, and some sweet moments...and they get a HFN ending.POV: This alternated between focusing mainly on Gwen and Drustan in 3rd person narrative.
I skimmed some scenes tbh because they did feel like a little bit too much at times.Descriptive sex: YesOW/OM drama: Yes (view spoiler)[ When they are reunited, the H is engaged and about to marry OW and this causes some drama for the couple (he's never met this OW).
Lo siento, en este momento no puedo decir que es un libro maravilloso, una historia como hacía tiempo que no leía, no, no puedo... Sencillamente no puedo porque estoy enfadada. Vamos a ver ¿cómo es posible que los demás libros de la saga estén descatalogados? ¿Qué se supone que tengo que hacer ahora? Ay, madre, que me he quedado sin saber que le pasó a Dageus...
Well, I didn't hate it.
I know that doesn't sound like high praise, but I H A T E time travel books.
They get so caught up in their own complications that it's near impossible to disregard the implications.
But this book honestly did it a bit better than most, though that wasn't the highlight.
The story just didn't take itself that seriously.
It was fun and sexy, a welcome diversion.
But all in all, I checked off a challenge book and I can now safely say...not for me for this series.
No pensaba que llegaría decir esto de una novela de esta escritora pero ha sido redonda, me ha encantado la historia, los personajes, la trama, sus giros, la fantasía, sus viajes en el tiempo, todo.Una novela muy divertida, con diálogos inteligentes, con momentos hilarantes sobre todo al principio de la novela, con ese momentazo en la tienda con los vaqueros y momentos muy románticos porque esta novela habla del AMOR en mayúsculas.
Tiene momentos muy sexy con mucha tensión sexual, pero también habla del amor fraternal entre padre e hijos y hermanos, de no rendirse aunque te lo pongan muy difícil, de ser tú mismo.
He aquí un libro que tiene un poco de todo: risas, historia, romance, tensión, tristeza...
Comienza en la época actual, cuando conocemos a la joven Gwen, desesperada por encontrar un hombre que la rescate de su tediosa vida, y al mismo tiempo convencida de que no habrá ninguno a la altura.
A continuación, llega el momento del viaje atrás en el tiempo y, con algún que otro contratiempo, descubrimos hasta qué punto pueden complementarse dos personas que apenas se conocen y sin embargo ya se han reconocido como almas gemelas.
Sin embargo, la resolución tengo que decir que me parece magnífica, y el libro una verdadera joya del género.
Based on the plots and writing it was definitely good and five stars worthy, but...
But one thing I can say is that constantly talking about a 25 years old heroine's virginity is definitely not cool.
Every time the author mentioned something about heroine’s virginity, I consider to mark it DNF, "I am not reading an HP...
I have some issues with the hero but he was honorable and celibate for some time.
And I liked the fact that (view spoiler)[the heroine didn’t travel back to past to live with him, here the hero come to the heroine to live in present time.

I laughed.
I cried.
I will never look at the color purple the same way again.
The ending surprised me.
I wasn't expecting that.
normally I read a series in order.
With this one though, I started here since this is what was at my library(and it was the only one) I've been told it's ok to read it out of order.
But, if the next book takes up from the letter that was left for Drustan and Gwen, I'll have to read it next.
Anyone want to take pity on me and and me their copy of the next book?
La trama es espectacular, con unos giros que para nada me esperaba; en varias ocasiones en las que la continuación de los hechos parecía previsible, acababa ocurriendo algo completamente distinto a lo imaginado.Por ejemplo, (view spoiler)[cuando tratan de volver al pasado, no llegué a imaginar que Drustan no conseguiría volver y solo lo haría Gwen; o, cuando los gitanos raptan a Gwen y Drustan va a por ella, tampoco imaginé que, al impedir hechizo, ella se esfumaría volviendo a su siglo (o soy medio lela o estaba tan metida en la historia que no me había parado a pensar en la paradoja...
*suspiros* Pues, es Drustan, no hace falta decir más.Si bien es cierto que hay un detalle de la protagonista que me ha molestado desde casi el principio de la novela.
I'm so glad I tried this series again. I had given up after book 1 but then I read of whole bunch of favorable reviews about this installment. Wow, I'm kind of speechless.Druids, time-travel, highlanders and hot, hot romance. This book has it all and that ending left me swooning.
On an impulsive trip to Scotland to find said cherry picker, Gwen encounters a “cherry three chopper-downer” in the form a hulking Highlander who is stubborn as a mule and from the 14th century.
After a little mishap retrieving her pack, Gwen takes a tumble and lands upon Drustan MacKeltar, straddling the slumbering Highland laird who has been enchanted by a powerful spell five centuries ago.
Using Drustan’s Druid powers and stones, he goes back in time, taking Gwen along with him.
Gwen and Drustan fall in love twice in this book and each time was better than the last.
Bu kadının yarattığı erkek karakterlere hay-ran-ım.Tamam, Highlander serisinden hiçbiri bir Barrons etmez, hatta hepsini toplasak yine Barrons etmez ama sonuçta İskoç erkeği bunlar da yani, boru değil.Drustan'ın içtenliği, dürüstlüğü, Gwen'in sevgisine olan ihtiyacı ve içindeki o sevilmeyeceğim korkusu o kadar içtendi ki!
-teşekkürler Karen- Artı, ben yaralı-ama-göstermez triplerine bayıldığım için Drustan gibi bir karaktere aşık olmamamı beklemeyin.
-Hayır kesinlikle diğer kitapları hatırlamadığımdan değil- Neyse, bir ara reread yapmak lazım seriyi.
Sen bok ye epsilon, Wattpad ye.Tamam, Drustan'e olan hayranlağımı fazla uzatmayacağım.
*gitti yine epub okudu*rsdeyken okumayın kafanızı kırarım.Bu arada diğer kitap DARKDRUID DAGEUS -dark diyorum bakın- SEVDİCEĞİMİNMİŞ.
Durstan, a hot higlander that's as alpha as they come and loves unconditionally, meets his match with his heroine Gwen. She's smart and pushes all his buttons, both good and bad. The story is well paced and has a touch of pnr element and time travel which I enjoyed. I also adored the supporting characters in this and found that they played a major part in balancing this great little love story.This is a romantic and "feel good" read, that had me laughing out loud. It's a winner!
ESPECTACULAR!! Me ha encantado!!
Heavy sigh….wipes tears away from face….wow!I am at a loss for words to describe how much I loved Kiss of the Highlander.
Ms. Moning, I want my very own Highlander!The story was beautiful.
Our heroine Gwen, was on a bus tour of Scotland.
500 year old curse broken, he awakens to find Gwen in a compromising position on top of him.
What a great introduction to our Highlander Drustan MacKeltar.
He is strangely attracted to Gwen.
Gwen is a very likeable heroine.
Gwen is sent back in time where she needs to change a series of events that cause Drustan to be cursed.
2 months ago you would NEVER have found me reading a book with a scantily clad man on the cover.
I recall telling a co-worker of mine about Outlander by Diana Gabaldon and her saying "Is this one of those books with the naked men on the cover?" and me replying "Oh, please, I would never read one of those.
After seeing a few of my GR friends speak so highly of the highlander novels by Karen Marie Moning I thought "What the hell, I need a palate cleanser between the 'real' books".
Fast forward to Book 4, The Kiss of the Highlander and I'm smitten.
