https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2951685-the-story-of-a-new-zealand-river
Thankfully her knight in shining armour is of the 'I'll point you in the right direction but you have to do it yourself' type and that means that a happy ending takes a whole book of tiredness and neediness to get thereI really like the way the story is set in an area that I know well.
I can totally see how the book was an inspiration to the Piano, though the stories diverge and the ending is nothing like the Piano at all.
Let’s note again I really liked the story I really disliked Alice.
One of the only times in literature where I've found that the male love interest is not out for personal gain of the female protagonist. One of the most stellar books I've read in a long time! The dynamic between mother and daughter take this story to a personal level for me and many of us who were raised entirely, or primarily, by our mothers. I've never seen character progression like this.
Just okay. I was not fond of Alice despite her evolution in character, and the other characters seemed flat by comparison. The story was fairly predictable; the only scene that surprised me was Tom's "discovery" of Alice and her lover. Finally, I did not like the narration by Gail Timmerman Vaughan: her intonation was too flat.
some parts better than others but overall it was a good book with really good characters
I really enjoyed this read, but why people seem to connect this book as the inspiration for the NZ movie "The Piano," I'm not so sure.
They are similar stories, sure - but very different too.Another beauty about this book is that it's based around an area I used to live so I recognise some of the places, although they are now quite different...
things change after a century.I really enjoyed learning the history of the area and the Kauri Tree harvesting and the Gum digging that went on in the day.This story is full of unspoken yearnings from more than one character, but is more focused on Alice, the mother of Asia.
This book is a New Zealand classic that is suggested that the film The Piano is based on.
That said this is a lovely book detailing the landscape of rural New Zealand in Victorian times and the remoteness and isolation of that environment in relation to relationships and geography .
As a reader you have to be aware that the scanning includes constant blocking of sentences with the title of the book which must have been on the top of a much smaller copy?
I enjoyed this more as an understanding of one of the noted books that New Zealand produced rather than the story I was anticipating, it is lovely though in places!!
Je ne sais pas si c'est la traduction, mais j'ai trouvé l'écriture curieusement hachée, les mots venus de n'importe où, comme si plusieurs périodes y étaient passées à la moulinette.Le personnage d'Alice, la mère, personnage central du roman, est assez exaspérant.C'est une belle histoire mais un bouquin bizarre !Ca m'a donné envie de voir "La leçon de piano", qui est le film que Jane Campion a tiré de ce roman.
A wonderful tale of early post settlement life in New Zealand. Such rich language and detailed portrayals of the main characters. A real insight into the harshness of life experienced by these colonial adventurers. David Bruce is a little too good to be true - perhaps the invention of a female mind?
some beautiful passages about NZ's natural habitat and a good insight into the kauri history in NZ but a difficult read - long, a bit depressing esp the main character Alice.
I loved this book by a NZ writer who writes in a setting in NZ's far north during the early settlement of the country.
I really enjoyed this book for its history and even though it is a little bit of a romance it is enticing and toatlly enjoyable. I am proud to own this book.
I have read this book twice absolutely brilliant!
Weeeeeell, that was sad. And not so sad. And sad again. And stuff.The writing is beautiful, though, so that's enough for me.
