https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735373.The_Mystery_of_the_Pantomime_Cat
This was a fantastic novel. Very interesting. I wish I could be a find outer too because their mysteries are so amazing and this one was one of my favourites. Really a nice one. In the starting it was really difficult for them to solve this mystery but off course it was young bets who suddenly had a brainwave and as usual fatty used his clever mind to solve the mystery along with the other four and the dog!! Also I wish Enid Blyton was alive so she could write more books like these !!
This is quite a grown-up style mystery, but the children manage to solve it. One of the best books from Blyton's Mystery series.
So starts off a new adventure where the children interview suspects and witnesses, check alibis, and of course, beat Goon to it.
[But without their tricks of course there would be no mystery.] Still, despite this, in this one their behaviour was far better than the previous book with Ern where I felt they simply gave no thought to their actions.
I enjoyed their investigation though―approaching the actors and other witnesses, checking alibis, and all in a way that children could do (and Goon certainly couldn’t), but alongside also having fun with a trip to the pantomime and a picnic as well.
This mystery really has them stumped, and of course it's little Bets who nails it.
She really is a clever little thing, and what with her soft spot for Fatty I can see them married and solving crimes together!
But I get ahead of myself, about the book.
It was a good mystery, more serious than the usual Enid Blyton mystery.
After all, being drugged and robbed is a little harsh.
But there are lashings of food and fun, so you know it will end well, and the baddie seems repentant in the end.
Goon makes an idiot of himself, as always.
Mr.Goon is on holiday, a new police name Pippin are replace him. Elisabeth Hilton (Bets) very, very like Pippin. She give Pippin a name card...
The mystery is about the five find outer sand the dog has to make sure they can finish the mystery before poor Boysie and Zoe gets in trouble they did a very good job and the task but they have been missing one special clue they hadn’t thought about but clever little Bets had save them all see what happens next in the PANTOMIME CAT MYSTERY!!!What a book but poor five find oysters has to deal Mr Goon...
Mr Goon got very frustrated with the five kids and always wants to finish a mystery before them but bad luck he doesn’t and the five find putts always does and see the inspector first.
This was really good. I'm currently rereading books from my childhood and these were my absolute favourite. I only read this once, contrary to other books in the series, around 12-13 years ago, but I sort of remembered the plot, maybe that's why it was predicable to me. I forgot how good it was though, I really enjoyed it.
The most baffling part of this mystery was how nobody in the entire cast realised that a costume can be taken off from one person and put on another. There were a couple of funny lines, though. And I actually liked most of the setup. So I'm gonna go with "meh" rather than "ugh."
A extremely enjoyable blast from the past, I can remember reading all the "Five Find Outters" 30 plus years ago, and it's still as enjoyable :-)
The horrendous mismatch of Enid Blyton's writing with the detective genre is actually worse here than in the Secret Seven series, as the Secret Seven books are very short and don't necessarily need a well thought out, properly investigated crime.
This really is the first Enid Blyton series that I've re-read and judged to be all but worthless to come back and read as an adult.The final path to the big reveal is the worst so far, as Larry suddenly has a cousin (actually introduced as his cousin's sister, but that would make her Larry's cousin too!) who happens to know all the missing pieces of the puzzle, including the fact that the real criminal has a twin sister who often pretends to be him!
this is one of the first books of enid blyton I read.
as you see, I am not such a great fan of enid blyton.
I did not develop interest in her books at all after reading one chapter of famous five.
I did not like the book at all.
one of my friends is a great fan of her unlike me.
just the way I like it.
this was the first book I read of the series.
I liked the funny nick names she gave to the characters.
it was just a matter of time before I finished 5 more books in this series!)
Fatty masih terus bertahan sebagai tokoh favorit di buku ini. Peristiwa-peristiwa kebetulan yang di-setting pada awal cerita ini masih terkesan agak dipaksakan, tapi masih sanggup mengecoh saya dengan ending-nya. Karena saya sebenarnya tadinya berharap Enid bisa membuat ending yang lebih 'complicated'. Tapi mungkin karena saya tanpa sengaja masih saja belum sanggup mempertahankan pikiran bahwa buku ini adalah konsumsi anak dan remaja. I think I'm already too old for Enid Blyton, huh? Lol....
Akan selalu ada soft spot bagi saya untuk para anggota Pasukan Mau Tahu. Pip, Beth, Larry, Daisy, dan Fatty barangkali yang sudah menemani saya semasa kecil, tetapi mereka masih terus berumur dua belas tahun, sementara saya akan terus bertambah tua. Meski demikian, saya tidak akan pernah melupakan mereka.
Such fun!!! This is the first of the Dragon series I have read by Enid Blyton. It was such fun! Couldn't put it down. Now I know why so many people requested books by this author when I worked at a now defunct bookstore. If you have a chance to read them, I highly recommend them to both children and adults.
I am one of those weird Enid Blyton fan who've read at least one of ALL her other characters except The Famous Five. But I particularly remember the Five Find-outers: these were where she made me laugh and my mother worry. The Mystery of the Pantomime Cat was probably my second book from the series and one that I intend to read again as soon as I can
Book seven of the series and almost half way through. Goon takes some leave so the kids think what a great idea let's prank the new walloper and then of course it leads to a mystery and Goon has to come back ?!!? Anyway typical FFO story with normal events around a different mystery.
Mooi opgebouwd verhaal. Klassiek verloop. Valse sporen. Goede agent, slechte agent. Controleren van alibis. Doorstrepen van verdachten. Arrestatie van onschuldigen. Ingeving van Betty. Grote revelatie. Een echte klassieker.
I enjoyed this book.
Good read.
Very nice book!
Liked it! :)
I didn't love the Five Find-Outers quite as much as the Famous Five, but it was close! A lot of the stories were more interesting to me, but I just didn't like the characters quite as much.
This book is very interesting. Of all the mystery books this the best one.this book is all about using your brains. I liked reading it.
Considering this is a kids book, its not bad. Not dumbed down much, but sme things are repetitive.
This was a fantastic novel. Very interesting. I wish I can be a find outer too and will like to work with the 5 find outers. Really a nice one.
awesome book!!!!
Spannend (Y)
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
