https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337521.Violence_and_the_Sacred
In the 1972 work, Violence and the Sacred, the French literary critic Rene Girard undertakes a “scientific” exploration of the dual aspect of sacrifice, attempting to resolve the contradiction articulated in the work of Henri Hubert and Marcel Maus: “Because the victim is sacred, it is criminal to kill him- but the victim is only sacred because he is to be killed.” The results of this inquiry yield, according to the author, the origins of all religion and culture.
What this mimetic desire means is that it is not the differences between the various members of a community that brings about violence, but rather the erosion of those differences: what he calls the 'sacrificial crisis' is the theoretical and historical event in which the cultural order, warrant of social differentiation, looses its authority.
We can agree with Girard that violence is universal and an intrinsic component of any social form – but in order to assimilate violence to the sacred or the divine, violence need to be absolutely transcendent: there are two modes for experiencing violence, as perpetrator or as victim.
Introduces his theories of mimetic desire - how desire comes from copy others - and the role of sacrifice as a sort of sanctioned violence involving scapegoats, with the latter being a sort of chronic problem inherent in human society.
Girard's examples are taken from literature and a smattering of anthropological studies - not nearly empirical enough for my tastes, but at least an interesting tool for literary analysis.-How does Girard's own religious belief interact with the idea of the scapegoat and sacrifice?
-Peter Thiel cited Girard's study of mimetic desire as a major influence - how much of this plays out in social media?-How does this integrate with Carl Schmitt's theory of the exception?
Ο καλύτερος τρόπος για να διατηρούμε μια στάση αναστοχασμού και σύνθεσης μέσα στην συνεχή ροή της βιβλιοπαραγωγής και τον καταιγισμό ιδεών της εποχής μας, είναι να διαβάζουμε τα κρίσιμα κείμενα στοχαστών που αποκαλύπτουν το νόημα της πραγματικότητας.Ο Ρενέ Ζιράρ είναι ένας από αυτούς τους στοχαστές και αυτό το μικρό βιβλιαράκι που περιλαμβάνει μια μικρή διάλεξη του για τη βία και τη θρησκεία, δύο συνεντεύξεις και μια πολύ κατατοπιστική εισαγωγή πάνω στο έργο του από τον μεταφραστή Αντώνη Καλαϊτζή, είναι ότι πρέπει για κάποιον που θέλει μια πρώτη επαφή.
Στη διάλεξη αναπτύσσει τις ιδέες του σχετικά με τη βία και την θρησκεία με αναφορά στις αρχαϊκες θρησκείες και στο διαφορετικό που κομίζουν τα βιβλικά κείμενα ενώ πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα είναι και η πρώτη συνέντευξη με αναφορές σε λογοτεχνικά έργα που τον απασχόλησαν.
Just when I get caught up in the endless facebook stream of arguments and memes--religion, politics, TV, and corporate-controlled and produced mass culture--I step back into a culturally removed, dispassionate space and compare my culture to ancient Greece, or the Bushmen, or some tribe in Borneo and understand how silly and deadly serious are our bizarre choices manifest as cultural institutions.
99% of the non-fiction books published are useless self help, celebrity gossip, and silly politicians arguing battles that philosophers solved centuries ago but the common idiot can still not grasp with their nationalistic education and superstitious adherence to religion.
So five fucking stars to a real thinker and the finger to all major publishing houses, the MacDonalds-s of contemporary culture!We need more scapegoats after all.
، ثم ينتقل الي مفهوم الالوهه وماهي الا وجود متعال مابعد نبذ العنف كما حدث في قصه اوديب، ففي البدايه ظهر العنف قبل ان يكون ابا او حتي ملكا ولكنه تهديد طبيعي ويؤكد علي كونه غريزيا، وبالتالي ماجعل لايوس ابا هو عنفه وليس العكس.وبالانتقال الي عقده اوديب التي لا يخلو كتاب نسوي من التحدث بشأن تعلقها بمكانه الانثي داخل الاسره لانها لا تستطيع المنافسه مع الذكر في التماهي بالاب فان فرويد يقر ان الابن يريد ان يصبح محلا لمكان الاب في كل شىء وهو يبرر التخلص من الاب.بالحديث عن المسوخ يتضح ان ليس هناك من حضاره لم تمزج بين اكثر من صفه لكي تتجمع بها تلك الصفات المميزة للشيء نفسه فنجد في الادب مثل اوديب الذي ظهر في دور الاب والابن والزوج اما في الحضاره الفرعونيه مثلا ان ابو الهول ونجد في الحضاره السومريه الاسد المجنح ذو الراس البشري.في النهايه يطرح رينيه وجهه نظر حيال التقدم في النظره الي الدين والرؤيه الشفافه التي نحصل عليها والرؤيه الكامله للدين الا انها مازالت عاجزة عن كشف آليه الضحيه الفدائيه واعتقد ان تلك اجابه وافيه الي من يعلم الحقيقه وعقله يعجز عن اتخاذ اي رد فعل تجاها.
Within the campus of Girard’s arguments there are three primary wells: Freud, Oedipus (the tragedy and/or the incest taboo), and mimetic desire.
The first two chapters cannot have enough positive superlatives placed upon them, and they deal directly with the violence and the sacred.The sacred in primitive societies, Girard argues, is any dominating force that increases its power over society in direct proportion to a society's attempts to control it.
As state above, within the campus of Girard’s arguments there are three primary wells: Freud, Oedipus (the tragedy and/or the incest taboo), and mimetic desire.
Anyone terrorized as a child by the 1969 Encyclopedia Britannica film "The Lottery", based on a short story by Shirley Jackson, will understand the undercurrent of Girard's book.
He holds that violence has been ritualized by society, and that it can serve as a kind of relief valve - but much more - that keeps the social fabric of society knit together.Girard mines Greek mythology, Freud, Levi-Strauss, and finally Shakespreare to explore his theory.
More satisfyingly, he notes that a whole separate book will be needed to explore the Judeo-Christian story.Apply Girard's theory to current events and one's mind begins to reel.
It should be read as a book of philosophy, its vast ambitions taken into account.I feel that a comment on the pertinent (but in my opinion symptomatic) review made by Fatima has its place here (read that review first).>>The idea that Girard, or anybody, may be above all criticism, that one can put oneself above that, is not true, and too seductive by its own right.
Free thinking is not a healthy sport that we all can train for and enjoy together, but rather a difficult and problematic result of seeing certain things that we would rather forget; saying that Girard is in this sense Freudian is praising him.
I had just been attacked by demons, my life was spinning around, so I decided to go back to temple. I had spent years challenging the buddhist beliefs I was raised in, but it seemed the right choice. At the same time I was reading this book I began to hear from the lama of our temple words that I had previously only heard in Christian/Catholic doctrine and churches and twelve step programs. The combination of renewed disillussionment with the buddhist temple and the revelation of this book transformed my perspective on life.
Nos señala, finalmente, nuestro más grande error racionalista: creer que nuestra sociedad moderna (¿o posmoderna?) está más alejada de lo sagrado, y por lo tanto de la violencia, error en el que nos hemos cegado, sin darnos cuenta que la violencia y con ella, lo sagrado, nos están esperando, o nos acechan, o quizás ya nos alcanzaron, y vienen a revelarnos la verdad de nuestros orígenes.
His ideas, while they may be quite offensive or at the least controversial to some, definitely present new perspectives on why humans give in to primal instincts.Girard discusses, in complicated and yet fairly understandable terms, common literary elements of sacrifice, plagues, dealing with crisis, and generative and reciprocal violence.
Every aspect of Oedipus, as well as many other stories and novels, can be analyzed under Girard's theory with the result of a highly different perspective.Other literary analyses are of great interest, including the idea of the "monstrous double" in literature, the literary elements of mirroring and repetition, and the historical significance of twins in society.
I would like to read the rst of i someday, because Girard has some very interesting ideas about the role of violence in the genesis of myth.Updated Review: Well, I feel like three chapters really have the main meat of this argument for me, while the others develop and explore the ideas laid out most clearly and directly in "The Sacrificial Crisis," "Oedipus and the Surrogate Victim," and "From Mimetic Desire to the Monstrous Double." The main concern that I feel Girard doesn't fully define is the object of his investigations.
Плот-твист: насилие и священное - это одно и то же, у греков даже слово одно было.В первый раз услышал о книге из "Школы Злословия" с переводчиком обеих (главных) книг Жирара на русский, Дашевским https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZk3F...Пожалуй лучшая книга, которую можно прочесть после Владимира Проппа и Мирче Элиаде.
One of the most important books of our time. IF you have not yet discovered Rene Girard you will be amazed. He is not an easy read; however there is an excellent synopsis of his theory - Discovering Girard by Michael Kirwan - that I have found very useful.
Brilliant essay!
Indeed Girard, despite his propensity to ascribe 'mythical thinking' to his 'rivals' (on whom I think he dwells far too long, especially Freud) is absolutely right to point out that a moral framing of violence is a hopelessly mythical obscuration no matter how persuasive or heartfelt.
In this he is a rarity among 20th century theorists who deal with the topic of violence, and yet Girard is not (and I imagine will never be) as well-reviewed and discussed as Foucault or Bourdieu.To be quite crude and reductionistic, I would say that roughly 30% of this book is not all that important to readers who aren't particularly interested in how Girard perceives and (in his view) supersedes the theories of Freud and Levi Strauss.
Having somewhat familiarized myself with Girard's thought before reading this book, I can understand, having now read it, why it's still a piece of the beginning of his theoretical development.
This is an important book.
Not just because I've exposed myself to Girard's ideas, but because this foundation will probably be important in understanding his later work, which I plan to read in the near future.
Alcuni capitoli (tipo quello sullo strutturalismo) dovevano essere scritti in assiro, perché non ci ho capito niente. Altri sono affrontabili e, quando si è entrati in argomento, decisamente affascinanti. E sempre attuali.
Here's a good Easter weekend read. What is sacrifice for? Why has every cultural tradition in history indulged the concept of sacrifice? Rene Girard has a compelling answer.
من أهم الكتب التي طالعتها ورسخت في مخيلتي
Não cumpriu com as expectativas.
I really enjoyed this read. It's very well written and the philosophy is well explained.
Molto carino dai, ha offerto un modello interessante e sicuramente attuale.
En este libro René Girard encontró el significado y la función del monolito de 2001: una odisea en el espacio.
Girard postulates a hypothetical morphogenetic mechanism accounting for the generation of cultural and social order: the surrogate victim mechanism.He also discusses religion as a way of regulating social violence and creating social cohesion, arguing that through sacrifice, the violence that threatens the community is ritually cast out, turned outwards rather than inwards on to the members of the community.
Girard, who sees society as an affair of men and says this explicitly, relates sacrifice to religion: he sees the function of religion as keeping violence out of the community by means of the mechanism of the scapegoat, or the ritual which substitutes for it.Girard's thought is dense at times, but the hypotheses and cultural examples make this a thought-provoking tome that is worth reading.
René Girard, one of the brilliant minds of our times enters into the heart of archaic religion.
For Girard the sacred contains violence, and violence is sacred in itself as the foundation of archaic religion.
Violence, however, has a hidden mechanism that makes it work as "peaceful" force.
This mechanism is the scapegoating process that comes as a result of mimetic violence and the contagion of violence of all against one.
In conversation with Freud's psychoanalysis and Levi-Strauss structuralism Girard arrives to the conclusion that human sciences have omitted one of the biggest foundations of archaic religion, scapegoating as the result of mimetic violence.
on the question of competing structuralisms, your mileage may vary solely contingent upon whether you think his notions operate absent the colonial misogyny and racism.
rene girard is very reassured of the uber-comprehensiveness of his system compared to freud, his rival oedipal brother dead meat.
other than that this is something to help prop up the argument on the essential violence of the social.
this text works well with agamben, it's just super boring to read.
I don' t know if it's the translation or the original prose.
I wanted to climb out of my face.
Cala Girard, cala!Il tonfo definitivo di credibilità la teoria di Girard lo subisce intorno a pagina trecento quando l'autore, non contento d'aver ricondotto al meccanismo del capro espiatorio tutti i miti e i riti, e la società e i sistemi di parentela e quant'altro ancora, afferma che quivi avrebbe la sua origine addirittura il linguaggio umano.Sì, e dopo?(tre stelle per lo stile di scrittura e i numerosi spunti; altrimenti: due)
Provocative and brilliant ideas lurk within, ideas that scramble one's view of civilization, religion, and violence. But at the same time, it's a difficult book to get through. The book's at its best when it is directly engaging various rites and works of art. There are some drier stretches here and there, but the overall effect is amazing. Looking forward to more from René.
