https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32970.Romeo_and_Juliet_and_West_Side_Story
To quote River Song -- SPOILERS:I mean it's Romeo and Juliet...you should know how it ends...but just in case...spoilers.I bought this two-for-one because I love West Side Story and needed a copy of Romeo and Juliet. I hate Romeo and Juliet because I just don't understand what is romantic about a 3-day fling that ends in misguided suicide.Aaanywho, I love West Side/worked on it in high school (yeah spotlight operator!) and so I bought this. It's lovely.
I really don't like Shakespeare. I really, really don't. I also think that Romeo and Juliet are unfathomably stupid characters, and although I applaud Shakespeare for creating such a well-loved and often repeated plot, you would have to pay me to read it again. I read it voluntarily, not for school, and I don't think I will ever change my feelings about it. As for West Side story, it isn't that special. I'm usually a fan of modern adaptations, but I'm not feeling this one.
This book was realllyyyy hard to read, and it really dragged on when we read it in class. Has shakespeare ever heard of action?? Really boring and i didnt like it. In the beginning it was ok but it's just too long. The film is soooooo much better.. it's really sad aswell and i rly like the way they modernised it
It's great to have those two stories in one book, especially if, like me, wanting to compare the two. On top of this, musical theatre libretti are usually rare, so it is special to have the one for West Side Story together with its most important source.
Even though I had to re-read some passages 4-5 times and STILL couldn't figure out what Shakespeare was saying, I LOVED this play.
The writing was so absolutely beautiful in spots I had to re-read those just because it was so uplifting.
I didn't love West Side Story.
The one thing I didn't love about either of them, is there is no build up to this consuming love both of the couples share.
They see each other once and all of the sudden they're totally committed and in love - would've liked a little more behind that sweet love.
I really liked having the Shakespearean classic tragedy and the musical based off of it in the same book. I got to see the parallels more clearly and I loved reading the songs in the book. The stage directions and character insights were well done. Putting the two respective classics side by side strengthens the fact that the story repeats through out time.
AMAZING. EVERYONE SHOULD READ IT. WATCH IT, LISTEN TO IT. NOW.WEST SIDE STORY IS AMAZING, SO IS ROMEO AND JULIET. READ IT NOW. I GIVE IT 5 MILLION STARS! TONY + MARIA = FOREVER <3 (AND ROMEO + JULIET :)
Only read Romeo and Juliet (most of it)--preparation for seeing the play with my family at the Shakespeare Festival. As always his play cut deep, maintain relevance in uncanny ways, and, of course, the beauty of the language.
Shakespeare was a great writer and "Romeo and Juliet" is proof of that. The mark of a great writer is his/her ability to keep up discussion and the debate whether Romeo and Juliet were in love or just full of lust is a conversation that keeps on going.
The rating is mainly for the West Side Story half. Romeo and Juliet is nowhere near being my favourite of Shakespeare's plays, but my favourite musical is and always will be West Side Story!
I read this edition over and over and over and over again throughout middle and high school.Loved it.
I had some trouble really getting into it (I only read Romeo & Juliet). We went to Shakespeare in the Park and that was really fun!
I love this novel so much.I want to be writers like william shakespeare
romeo and juliet was boring! no offence teachers, but it dragged on, and it was confusing! i took like more then a month to read!
this book brought together my love of period elizabethan drama and flamboyant musicals . period
Meh. Romeo and Juliet isn't my favourite really. West side story i didn't enjoy too much either. Studying them was fun but i wouldn't re-read them.
great comparative edition. 50 years old. great notes!
I really don't see what the big deal about this story is. Why is it so famous? So many died! I was surprised that Juliet was fourteen, I had thought she was older.
West Side Story: Not my favorite! There are a few funny lines but I can't get past how quickly Tony and Maria fall in love, and the horrible mistakes they make.
I read this in my youth BEFORE I knew they were the same story. It opened my eyes to the timelessness of the story of the power and intensity of teenage romance.
The daughter of the Capulets, Juliet, is just thirteen, but her father dreams of marrying her off to the County Paris in hopes of raising his family's status.
He goes to Friar Lawrence, saying that death is better than banishment because he must live without Juliet.
Romeo goes to say goodbye to Juliet, which causes the young capulet to break into a new wave of tears as her love departs.
When Lady Capulet tells Juliet of her arranged marriage to Paris in a hope to cheer her up (she thinks Juliet is crying over tybalt's death.), Juliet says no.
I started skimming this book and eventually ended up reading it, alongside Romeo and Juliet.
The two books are both very similar, for two "lovers" from completely different sides fall deeply in love, although they aren't supposed to.
In West Side story however, the story is about two gang members (both from the Shark “clan” and the Jet “clan”), on opposing sides that fall to a plummeting hill of love, fighting for the ultimate “high status” of the city.
Tony and Maria (the two lovers) somehow form a Romeo and Juliet kind of love, resulting in plenty of unlawful ways (trying not to give spoilers).
I had to lower the rating because of Romeo & Juliet--not a fan.
10th Grade English was a wonderful time for me, because it had a lot of books I genuinely enjoyed reading (I know, a shocker).One of those many was this pairing of Romeo and Juliet and West Side Story.
If anything, West Side Story (for me, at least) can be seen as the original 'gritty reboot.' Gritty?!
I mean, I know that Romeo and Juliet is a pretty dark story, but the setting and the characters aren't by any means (especially by Shakespeare's standards).
West Side Story puts us in the New York of the 1950s.

It's kind of ironic to me that what is considered the greatest love story of all time is so tragic. I had never actually read either of these stories, even though I've known them, so I took the time to read them. Of course, these are plays so it's more entertaining to watch than to read. Still, they're classics and now I know why.
This book is a great demonstration of how we all must be willing to let go of the things we love most. It's a combination of hatred, love, and betrayal in one. You fall in love with the characters as they're presented. I think every person should read Romeo and Juliet and West side story, for it will redefine love for you.
We all know where West Side Story came from, or do we? This is a great introduction to how that process happened, and can open doors for young people to enjoy the writings of one of the worlds great writers. I'm all for that!
Back in the good ole dayz of 9th grade, our teacher showed us this hip urban video with captions of West Side Story in order to prep us to try to read Romeo & Juliet so we can compare and contrast the urban realities with the classical age.
I haven't read R&J in years, but I love the language. I have to confess I've never read West Side STory, but I'm marking this as read anyway because the reason I bought it was R&J. I do need to fix that, though. Someday...
