https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41028172-tisha
One of my top shelf favorite books of all time and a true story which takes place in Alaska in the late 1920's!
It has all the elements to keep the reader hooked: adventure, living with hardship through a frigid Alaska winter, dogsled races, a student who perseveres despite a reading handicap, the heroic teacher who loves her students and despite all, bravely stands up to a community with a rigid backwards way of thinking (racism.) Anne does what she knows is the right thing despite the personal cost of disapproval by the locals in power.
I just finished reading it again, this time to my 13 year old daughter.
(I guess kids today have it too easy.)This book is a winner that will transport you to another time and place.
Tisha is a Very nice read,I also recommend Tisha"s House and the FortyMile Country by lisa Johnson.I am Anne Purdy"s grandson and have spent many summers up in chicken with my granmother,before her passing,in the late 80's. Tisha's House and the Fortymile country,which was written by my wife lisa,Takes you on a photographic tour of the fortymile region and the house my granmother and granfather raised all those adopted kids in,I highly recommend you get it. questions or info just send me an e mail thetribe@mtaonline.net Brian and Lisa Johnson po box 870511 wasilla,ak 99687
2.75 starsYears ago I read Benedict Freedman's 'Mrs. Mike'.
A clean romance, it went on my keeper shelf and I have read it several times since.
'Tisha' refers to the word 'teacher'; it is what Anne is called by the some of her students who had a hard time with the English language.Depending on what you read, it appears as though it was co-written by both Anne and Mr. Specht.
The hatred she found among the townspeople alienated her personal life and followed her into the schoolroom.TISHA contains some romance but it was very mild.
But unlike 'Mrs. Mike', be aware that this story explores a darker side of life in this northernmost wilderness.
I read this while on vacation and was having a hard time putting it down, when I was supposed to be going to Disney World!
The woman is so brave and wonderful in the way she treats the Native American children!
I'm 1/2 Eskimo and live in Alaska and though I've mostly been treated well all of my life, I can only imagine what these Indian children were going through and what an angel Tisha must have been to them.I met one of the children she adopted (after the timeline in the book)and she had nothing but good to say about her mother.I plan on reading this again really soon!Re-Read May 2010
A brave young woman travels to a small Alaskan outpost in the early 1900s to serve as a teacher to nine young students.
"Tisha" is how the Indian children pronounced the word "teacher," thus the title of the book.
I found Tisha (whose real name was Ann) to be admirable on many levels: brave, vivacious, and intelligent.
Courageously, Ann took in two orphaned Indian children as her own, setting off a firestorm of outrage that nearly cost her position.
Tucked in with the adventure are descriptions of the Alaskan wilderness that paint a picture of stark, pristine beauty in the mind's eye.
Reads like historical fiction by a debut author. For example, in a novel, we would learn why Vaughn automatically despises the Indians so much. But irl Anne never found or figured it out, so we can only guess. But at the same time we do learn interesting historical perspectives, culture, technology... for example the role of 'pay dirt' in gold mining.Not my usual fare, often bleak or frustrating, and fairly long, but very nice for a change of pace.
One of my favorite books to recommend to library patrons, it obtained a higher percentage of "likes" than most. Biographies set in Alaska were a particularly popular library genre in our rural county.Realizing that I didn't have the energy to thrive long term in a classroom, the thought of teaching in isolated communities still held appeal. Hitch-hike to some end of the road village, learn the place while teaching, being a storyteller, then move on.Mentally, somehow, I link Tisha to the Water Is Wide. The Water Is Wide
Why I liked this book:1)Its a true story about the pioneer days of Alaska2) Its a book about a woman fighting for what she believes in although the odds are stacked against her3) Its full of compassion and kindness4) Its got a full helping of romance, perseverance, adventure and hard work5) I like the ending.
Not great writing, but fascinating documentation of time, place, attitudes - particularly racism against indigenous peoples of the north. I'd hoped to learn more about life in the "Indian camp," but that wasn't Hobbs' story. Typical of the time, I suppose, that when our protagonist decides she wants to adopt two "half-breeds" it doesn't occur to her to seek permission from their people. And enlightening to note that she had the most success as a parent when she stopped trying to make those kids act white. Highly educational book - and at times quite a page turner too.
I remembered that it was a true story, but I kept thinking that it didn't seem to be written by a woman.
The story was exciting and clipped along at a pace that I would be expecting from a male author, possibly even a journalist.And then, I got to the end and sure enough, the About the Author page reminded me it was written by a man.
Apparently the story was told to him by Anne Purdy :).Reading this book reminded me of what the Bible says about the haughtiness and wickedness of the heart of man.
For about the past 10 years or so, she has been asking for it back, so it was time to read it.I loved this book.
Of course, I lived there in the 70s and 80s and I lived in Fairbanks so I had quite a bit more comforts!But this book is more than a story about the hardships of 1920s Alaska.
When Anne Hobbs moved to Alaska, she not only encountered harsh winters and a very different way of life, but also prejudice and racism against the Native Alaskan people and anyone who had any native blood.
The story of Annie Hobbs, who went to the remote village of Chicken, Alaska in the fall of 1927 to be the school teacher for a year.
During the year she confronted the prejudices of the village towards the Indians and the half breeds.
It was sitting on my bookshelf and my memory is that I'd read it as a teen during my "I want to be a teacher when I grow up" period.
I read a number of Teacher books during those years.
I'm also impressed by her strength to see those that the village shunned as people to be respected in the face of the persecution she took for standing up for them.
This is my all time favorite book. I read it at least once a year if not more. A most incredible story.
Racism irks me to my core. Those who stand firm against it deserve to have their story told.
This book made me want to go live in Alaska!Anne Hobbs is a young woman, nineteen years old, who decides she wants to teach in the Alaskan wilderness."From the time I'd been a girl I'd been thrilled with the idea of living on a frontier, so when I was offered the job of teaching school in a gold-mining settlement called Chicken, I accepted right away."The trip itself up to Chicken is arduous and Tisha has many adventures.
I feel like the soul of the story was lost completely in the writing process, and what we get is a bland third-party account from an uninterested spectator.
Written differently, this book would've captivated not only my mind but also my heart; as it is, however, I "mushed" through it purely for its cultural and sociological education.So, like I said, I have mixed feelings about it.
I would definitely recommend it, though: if nothing else, this book will give you an incredible portrayal of what it meant to live in one of the coldest, most lonely and remote regions in the world in the early 20th century- and who can resist a story like that?
There are some books that have nuanced meanings, things to ponder, or perhaps some morality tale buried in their depths.
Instead, it was a fabulous armchair traveler book--a chance to learn about experiences I will likely never but thanks to the miracle of books, can enjoy via ink and paper.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and getting to know Tisha, Chuck, Edith and Fred.
Even Mr. Vaughn and Angela.
When I say Tisha went to live among the savages, I don't mean the Alaskan Indians she meets, but some of her white neighbors.
Survival in the Arctic is beyond my capabilities, I fear. Those long nights and frigid temperatures would overwhelm me. But I always like to read about other people's experiences. Here we have a girl raised in the lower 48 who goes north to teach in a small Alaskan village. Specht has brought this experience to life. I've read the book several times and always enjoyed it. (In some ways, it's reminiscent of Mrs. Mike, but I like this book better.)
This book was wonderful, and even better that it is a true story! I loved learning about the settlement of early Alaska and how education worked in the 1920's. Both were quite rough. Thankfully racism isn't as bad now as it was then, but biases are just as present. The ending kept me gripped and heart beating fast! Knowing it was a true story meant that the ending might be the happily ever after. But it didn't disappoint. If you can get your hand on this book, READ IT!
I read this book years ago and it is still one of the first books that I recommend when someone says, "what is a good book that I could read". It is a true story and a fun read that describes the world of Alaska and inspires you with its good example of being true to yourself.
Wow, excellent book! This book is a true story about a young woman who goes to the town of Chicken in the Alaskan wilderness to teach in the 20s. I highly recommend this book. It's full of adventure, determination, racism, love, and so much more.
This was a re-read. It is one of my favorite books of all time.
This is a delightful story that starts off with a difficult journey getting into the wilderness of Alaska.
Anne, joins the postal delivery team who risks their lives each time they make the treacherous journey through the wilds of Alaska to deliver mail and packages.
Anne reaches her destination only to deal with unsatisfactory housing but the villagers pitch in supplies and fix up her room.
Anne reaches out to these kids and families and is shunned and much more.
This book is a winner and will transport you to the Wilds of Alaska and different time, less tolerant than our own.
Oh my heart! This is a touching story of a young woman's struggle to fight adversity in the tundra of Alaska. She boldly sets out for the wilderness in order to teach at an old mining town. While there she opens her heart and home to the unfortunately mistreated Indians. I admire Anne and her desire to stand up to those morally corrupt enough to deny basic human rights and common courtesy to those who even show a portion of native blood. Honestly, I was blown away by this historic tale of strength and perseverance. I highly recommend it!
A young schoolteacher comes to frontier Alaska for adventure and finds it along with some romance. Much of the story focuses on her matter-of-fact battle against discrimination/mistreatment of her Native American students. This heartwarming novel is based on the experiences of a real life heroine.
True story of a young teacher who worked in Alaska. The hardships of living in such a cold climate and in a closed minded community are unbelievable. It was a bit too harsh for me at times but very well worth reading.
I created mental pictures of the events as they occurred and thats not always something I can do with books, but this one had me cornered....I just couldn't put it down.It has to be the best book I have ever read.The story of Anne Hobbs, a young nineteen year old teacher, fresh from Missouri, had set out on an adventure, to teach the children of the frontier, in the small mining community of Chicken.
Anne took in any child who either needed or wanted an education, and the odd adult who wanted to learn, including Indian children and half breeds.
And a pretty young schoolteacher from Colorado like Anne Hobbs was even rarer than nuggets." This is the story of her journey into the Alaska wilderness to become a teacher in the small gold-mining town of Chicken.
I loved that Tisha was an entertaining story but it also talked about a lot of real issues faced in the country at that time and still (sadly) to some extent today.
It's going to take a lot to change their minds, but who better to do so than her?Tisha is one of those books that are really infuriating because of the racism and blindness of many of the characters.
(Later, I learned the name of an unforgettable 1960s Alaskan documentary that I had hoped had some textual analogue -- "Alone in the Wilderness" by Dick Proenneke.) The clerk said that all the sourdoughs (born-Alaskans) read this book before they're grown, that it was a quintessential true story about a young teacher adjusting to a new rugged life.
Part of the reason I quit reading was because I wanted a peaceful and reflective retreat for non-sociological purposes, but also because Tisha seemed to praise herself often as an independent operator even while she was unprepared, proud, and availed herself of assistance whenever.
themes: race, discrimination, love, education, survival, couragesetting: Alaska 1920sAnne Hobbs grew up in mining towns, but she decided she wanted some adventure, to do something different with her life.
Anne's own grandma was an Indian, and she was the only person who ever showed her unconditional love.
Anne is the last person to hold someone's race against them.
Only after a tragedy is Anne able to find her way to a happy ending, and even then, it may take a while.I really loved this book.
Great feeling for the place and time, the attitudes and the hardships settlers faced in Alaska.
