https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1761552.Mrs_Tim_Carries_On
I love these books - perhaps because they bring to life those sepia photos - I looked at a group of people on a grouse moor in Scotland with an old car behind them and wondered what it was like to be them.
When a character is moaning about the progress of the war and saying about the British government 'We aren't told..We aren't told half...'Mrs Tim says:'You've been listening to Lord Haw Haw,' I tell him.'Why shouldn't I?' Jack enquires.'Because he's poisonous, I reply.
Mrs. Tim (Hester Christie, wife of a British army officer) keeps her family going during Total War; Stevenson actually lived this, so the book is not just witty and amusing, it is often poignant and eye-opening.
Americans look so lame next to them, when we go all crazy every time there's a whisper of terrorist danger.) There are some delicious bits in this one: I love it when Hester encounters Ermyntrude Browne-Winters, who loves to recount often embarrassing details of her previous lives: "Yes," says Miss Browne-Winters, assuming a positively Delphian manner and drawing her long thin fingers across her eyes.
I do like the Mrs Tim books (and D. E. Stevenson's books in general) - they manage to be heart-warming and cheering without being schmaltzy.
Book one ("Mrs. Tim of the Regiment") introduces the character and life of Hester Christie, based on the author's own experiences as a British military wife.
In the foreword, the author explains why she continued the story:"...it was not until the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939 that I felt the urge to write another book about Hester Christie."Mrs. Tim Carries On" was easily written, for it it just a day-to-day account of what happened and what we did- and said and felt.
Tony says they're tough, and I can believe it." I don't want to give away any spoilers as you will enjoy reading this world-war-two-era novel for yourself!
And the first pages of Mrs. Tim of the Regiment was difficult to get through and stick with but then the author pulled me into the story.
I ended up loving the first book and then found a copy of the sequel, Mrs. Tim Carries On.Again, I was afraid it couldn't match the first one.
If you want to read a thoroughly enjoyable story about people who are worth your while to know, this is it.
Now I'm looking for the next installment of in the life of Mrs. Tim and her family.
I have read this several times, and it's one of my D.E. Stevenson favorites. Mrs. Tim 'follows the drum'..that is her husband is in a military regiment. This book is a diary she kept during 1940 when he was serving during the war and is an amusing, accurate [albeit fictional] account of those years in England and Scotland. Her observations of people are another reason I treasure this book.
I did like this one more than the first, both because I have a huge soft spot for British People Carrying On In WW2, and because there is a *little* character development here.
This novel written in diary format follows Hester (Mrs.Tim Christie) during the year 1940.
Mrs. Tim's old friend Mrs. Loudon shows up again, to visit her convalescing son Guthrie.
And just like in the first book of the series (Mrs. Tim of the regiment), Guthrie seems again to be on the point of falling in love with an unsuitable girl.
Hester also spends a couple of days in London with her brother, and later on in the book she and Tim, back from France, visit an uncle.
The book is clearly written with a patriotic message of the "Keep Calm and Carry On" type.
Although Mrs. Tim Carries On is a little darker than its predecessor it is appropriately so; one should expect nothing less of a novel set in the midst of World War II -- and yet, Stevenson struck a balance in this story between the real life struggles, hardships, and loss with the day-to-day normality and occasional adventure that a military wife and mother to two young children might encounter.
Of course there is also plenty of witty dialogue, curious characters, and even a romance between two supporting characters to add to the enjoyment of this read.
Mrs. Tim does indeed "carry on" in this novel and I found it to be a delightfully witty, interesting and all around charming read....
Read more here: http://libraryhospital.blogspot.com/2...
Weak sequel to Mrs. Tim of the Regiment (or, Mrs. Tim Christie). The war is on but Mrs. Christie's life doesn't seem to change much. Mrs. Christie doesn't seem to suffer much in the way of deprivations, her faithful maid Annie stays with her (you'd think she'd want to do war work), and Mrs. Christie has all the time in the world to involve herself in other people's love affairs. This sequel just doesn't have the ring of truth about it.
Mrs. Tim does indeed carry on, though this time she is less silly and more thoughtful.
There is no more of the foolish subplot with Colonel Morley where Hester appears to be too blind / naive / downright stupid to see his infatuation with her, thought he does still turn up at moments of crisis like a knight in shining armour leitmotif.
In the same vein, another admirer of Hester meets his match and the Christies remain a devoted couple.There is just the right mix of interesting people and tiresome bores amongst the characters as would be found in real life, with their quibbles and generosity, their worries and joys all combining to make them lifelike.

D.E.Stevenson continues to charm me as kind of the author for the reader who has either outgrown L.M.Montgomery or has read everything she's written.
I just loved the first book in this series; the dry humor and observations of the narrator's neighbors and family was snarky but affectionate and honest.
There isn't even very much destruction, which is odd coming from an author who actually lived thru the war.
I would love to have tea with her and discuss our children's antics and the neighbors' oddities.
Have really fallen in to re-reading a lot of D E Stevenson's works after spotting them at my new local library. This one I had to get through interlibrary loan but was worth the wait. Am planning a longer review for a MadReads post and will add the link once it is available.
brilliant read. highly recommend.
The adventures of "Mrs. Tim" -- nickname of Hester Christie, wife of newly promoted Major Christie -- continue in this third volume, Mrs. Tim Carries On. Reading this novel was akin to being reunited with an old, dear friend after a long separation: Until you've seen each other again, you didn't realize just how much you've missed one another.
Some of Hester's adventures deal with conditions specific to the war effort and that time: collecting gloves and things to ship to needy soldiers overseas, making substitutions due to wartime rationing, adjusting to an influx of Polish refugees, dealing with a truculent temporary servant or a supercilious Air Raid Warden, dread when Major Tim goes missing for weeks in war-torn France, and a harrowing encounter with a downed German aircraft while shooting grouse in the Scottish countryside.
The courage to face each day with bombs raining down and even more, to be able to make light of the damn bombs fills me with awe.
As good as The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society was, what it's really left me with is a new and massive appreciation for the women who really did what the fictional Juliet in Guernsey did- write amusing columns to keep up spirits in wartime.
I've just ordered Joyce Dennis' Henrietta's War, and am waiting for a copy of Mrs. Tim Gets a Job. Can't say how much I enjoy these, and how I admire them for being able to write them.
I have to admit that not a whole lot happens in this book, although of course since it's in the middle of World War II, there is a bit of excitement over Hester's husband coming and going from the front.
The character of Pinkie (I think she's about 19) is a pleasant addition.I feel like so far the Mrs. Tim books are the type that you could just open up right in the middle of the book and read without losing any material plot points.
Since the format of these books is a diary, though, it makes sense that they would abruptly end.
In fact, the way Mrs. Tim keeps her journal is exactly the way my journals usually look - there are big gaps in time where there are no entries, usually when something big happens and there is not time to journal, but also when there is nothing significant to write.
Again, it had the feeling of sitting down with a friend for a chat to catch up with what's happening and the crazy/funny people in her life.
Definitely going to read the next book in the series.
I loved this book. Second in the series about a British Military officer's wife, this one is set at the beginning of WWII. This is my favorite D E Stevenson novel so far (have some more to go). I loved the narrator, the setting, all the stuff about what happened during the beginning of the war. The first book, Mrs. Tim Christie, I liked okay, I'm really glad I kept going!
DE Stevenson's early effort and a winsome treat. Mrs Tim, Hester, is an admirable heroine. She copes with the duties of being in the regiment and being an officer's wife, while being a mother, and the basic glue of her little community.Hester keeps a journal while Tim is on campaign and it here that we get a peek at scenes of Britain at war with Hitler.A combination of comedy and calamity, Mrs Tim Carries on provides the foundation for other DES novels where staunch women gamely face their situation with determination and plucky spirit.
The second of the Mrs. Tim series. Shows Mrs. Tim coping with WWII day by day with humor and grace. She shows British stamina during a time of great worry. American readers responded to the plight of the British Isles by sending care packages to Mrs. Stevenson. One stated that after reading this book that she, "finally knew what it was to have a tiger at the door."
I'm so excited to finally have a complete set of my beloved Mrs. Tim books! This was the hardest one to come by and I always told myself if I could find it for 20 dollars I would get it. It was close enough. Now I'll be really mad if they finally re-issue these, but it is worth it :) .
Again, very nice. Three and a half stars? Good light read.
A great book taking place during WWII. A continuation of the Mrs. Tim series that is simply delightful. I highly recommend this book.
I love Mrs. Tim. This is a somewhat more sombre read than the first Mrs. Tim book, but just as amusing in voice and small events as ever.
