https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6566722-heat-wave
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: Fun but disposable. It's got all the bones of a good detective story, but with characters in need of further fleshing out.
For those of you who watched last night's Castle: yes, the thing on page 105 is really there. FYI.I don't really know how to actually review this, so I'll repeat what I said to a friend of mine this morning:Her: Oh my God. IS IT TERRIBLE? I MUST KNOW.Me: It's not! It's not high literature either, but--it's basically the same in terms of quality as the show. Fluffy, funny, throwing in another dead body whenever they think of plot, and just adorable.(and slashy.)I like.
It reads like a fanfiction written by someone NOT Richard Castle.
But as a new, yes, but enthusiastic fan of Castle I couldn’t help but feel cheated with this book.This is one of those times when you wish you could get a refund.One-dimensional characters, some of them acting not at all like them (Jameson Rook is one example, Nikki Heat the other, because she was being a bitch through most of the book), a pretty standard crime with the perp visible from a mile away, not particularly well-written.
Nikki Heat always gets her man...and no one is more happy to hear that than Jameson Rook!Okay, let me just get something out of the way...this book, which is a media tie-in for the "Castle" television series, is advertised as being written by a fictional character...so it's not like I went into this expecting high art or anything!
So imagine my disappointment when this book didn't even manage to live up to those expectations...After reading "Heat Wave", I'm not surprised bookstores don't seem to be in any danger of selling out all their copies...At first glance, I thought I was in for a fun ride.
Going into this, I had an inkling it wouldn’t be a literary masterpiece, but I still couldn’t help but be surprised by how weak this novel was in every aspect.This book series is based on the now finished procedural crime drama, Castle.
It allowed me to take an interest in crime and murder mysteries, as well as introducing me to my favorite banter-filled will-they-won’t-they relationship.So, it is no surprise that the show has a special place in my heart.The book on the other hand...well, it honestly has no reason to exist.
I had no idea what to expect when I started reading "Heat Wave".
The book mirrors the show a great deal, but isn't exactly the same.Nikki Heat has to allow "Rook", a journalist doing research for a magazine article, to follow her around while she works a case.
In this instance, a very wealthy man is tossed from his apartment window and killed.
Then, the man's wife is attacked.
Heat and the gang have to determine who killed Matt and why.
I'm impressed with this one- even though I have no idea who the real "Richard Castle" is.
Still didn't get that far, only 28%.It's not a bad book, really.
I'm not a big fan of detective fiction (unless it's SFF), so this is not doing much for me, but I can see mystery fans enjoying this book as a fun popcorn read.* * * * *DNF @ 20%.
I tried, though not very hard, so maybe I'll return to it later (if there's time or if it's chosen as a BotM).This book came to me highly recommended by bookclub friends who are also big fans of the TV show.
And the book is just like that.
Plus, there's been all the media hype about how Castle's such a ruggedly handsome jetsetter of an author, and the whole thing about him tagging along with the NYPD by way of the world's longest publicity stunt to promote a new series, yeah yeah yeah blah blah blah but can the man actually write?I had my doubts, I have to say, when I learned that the lead character of his shiny new series is named Nikki Heat.
Nikki Heat is, I fear, no real match for Eve Dallas.And, of course, Jameson Rook, our male lead, has "Marty Stu" written all over him.
(Rare, since I prefer reading to TV.) The dialogue is much like the TV show.
The characters banter and there is a lot of lighthearted fun in the way they speak to one another.
At times it was more like reading a summary of events.
The characters also lacked detail.
Heat came off a little too needy (in a drippy, drooly, school girl crush kind of way) and Rook (Castle in the show) came off a little too childish.The book is short (196 pages) and doesn't require a big committment.
It's easy to read, light, and a good distraction from life.
In fact, bits and pieces of scenes from the first season where playboy novelist Richard Castle is riding-along with Det. Kate Beckett make their way into the story.
Castle's counterpart is Jameson Rook, a magazine journalist shadowing Det. Nikki Heat (based on Beckett) to get an on the job perspective for an article about NYPD homicide detectives.
Captain Montgomery, Medical Examiner Lanie Parish, and Detectives Esposito and Ryan also have doppelgangers in the novel: Captain Montrose, M.E. Lauren Perry, Det. Ochoa, and Det. Raley, respectively.If you've seen this Monday's episode (Season 2, Ep 2) of "CASTLE", then you also know that there is a sex scene in the novel between Rook and Nikki Heat, which does not occur between the TV series' characters.
It'll be a while, I'm way down the list for this at the library.
Wonder who wrote it?
It came it.Basically, stick with the TV series.
Sad to say but it really didn't make the transition all that well.
I picked it up because I find the series humerus though (of course) totally implausible.
Mostly I think it's Nathan Fillion's comic timing and ability to actually act that sells the TV program...you don't get that here.So, decide for yourself, not a real winner from my point of view, but not the worst thing I ever read either.
(I don't think it is anyway.....)
I'm a big fan of the TV show Castle and had been dying to read the Nikki Heat books supposedly written by Nathan Fillion's character.
In Heat Wave, I found great writing, wonderful character chemistry and an unbeatable mystery.
I also found my mind making constant connections to the show, which was both distracting and confusing at times.It's hard not to compare Nikki Heat and Jameson Rook to Kate Beckett and Richard Castle from the show.
Nikki is written like Castle's fantasy Beckett, she's just like Kate but willing to give into her attraction to the writer in her life.
In "Castle" Fillion plays Richard Castle, a best selling author who has made millions with his Derrick Storm novels.
He wants to write a new series & asks his buddy, the Mayor, if he couldn't work with one of the best female detectives, Kate Beckett.
He does & bases his new series & character on Kate, thus is born Nikki Heat.I don't know what I expected when I found this.
This is an episode of Castle, just the names have been changed.Castle = Rook a magazine writer instead of novelist, but he got his gig with the police the same way.
Rating: a deeply surprised 3* of fiveAs a rule, I watch very little TV that isn't about science, on PBS, or revoltingly prurient.
by "Kendall Hart" - go look it up, and yes I watch "All My Children" I already said I like revoltingly prurient TV so leave it.) So I got...oh the shame...curious.
The story itself isn't the usual "this is a script we couldn't find a way to budget so now it's a hit-series-companion-volume" type of thing...this is the book the fictional author in the series is said to be researching and writing, featuring the thinly disguised fictionalization of the sexy homicide detective he's following around.
Nikki Heat thinks the judge reminds her of Homer Simpson and wants him to say "D'Oh!" On the TV show, the actor playing Judge Markway (the basis for Judge Simpson) is played by Dan Castellaneta, the same guy who does the voice for Homer Simpson.
Things that grate on my nerves like repeating the same phrase over and over again within the same paragraph, not for emphasis, but for lack of imagination, and clunky phrasing/dialogue happen quite often in the book.
Well, like I said, Nathan Fillion's picture is on the back cover.
Hack!
Absolute hack!
But of the wonderful variety...I never thought that I would love hack, but this, I really like!
(Okay...
too many exclamation points already.
But, you get the point...)But as much as I declare this hack, it's GOOD hack, as shown in the actual action scenes.
This was definitely written by an awesome author, who knows how to write a gripping scene, and not just glorified fan-fiction, which is the tone this book starts out on.
So if this doesn't appeal to you from the start, keep reading - it truly does get better.Read the full review here:https://ermareads.wordpress.com/novel...
As if Richard Castle on TV were a real author and used his adventures in his fictional TV life to put pen to paper and write a book based on those experiences.If you're a fan of the TV show, you'll feel right at home reading this.
The police work, the begrudged Heat/Beckett crush on Rook/Castle, the interplay at the precinct, the ride along, crimes, suspects, interrogations in the observation room.I have no idea who actually wrote this, but even if it weren't based on the 'research' of Rick Castle, it would still be a fun mystery/whodunnit.
That’s a win in my book.
There’s also the intense sexual tension between Castle and Beckett,and the antics of lovable partners Ryan and Esposito.Anyway, reading Heat Wave was like watching a marathon of Castle episode.
And then there’s Rook, the embodiment of Castle, who’s only difference is that he’s a journalist not a novelist (haha, Rook, Castle, get it?).
The only difference between the book and the show, is the will-they-won’t-they dynamic Castle and Beckett have going on is non existent in the book…there’s just a very descriptive they did toward the middle of the book.
My love for the show amplified my love for this little tie-in, promotional book.
This is a pretty awesome idea, all things considered.
It's pretty trashy, an easy read, quick: good to just kick back with, and not think too much about.
The story on its own is so-so, I guess: I was there for the Castle references, not for anything unique and scintillating on its own.
Pretty much standard fare.Not sure how I felt about the idea of Castle writing a sex scene about the characters so clearly based on himself and Beckett.
I guess I'll have to see how it's played in the show, but I didn't think he'd go that far.Still, pretty fun, and an awesome idea.
Four stars for one reason alone - I love the plot of the TV series more than that of the book.
I found the characters unique and intriguing, the settings - well-described, and the detective work quite up to the standarts of the TV Series Castle.The thing that made me give it 4 stars was the relationship - as good as are things between Nikki Heat and Jamie Rook, the sparks between Richard Castle and Kate Beckett are on a whole other level.So take note, Mr Castle, and when you write on be sure to include more of that in your next books ;)
Well I am as always way behind the curve but I love 'Castle' and I was amazed and happy to find that 4 yes 4 Nikki Heat novels were there along with 4 Storm novels also when when the Graphic Novels of Storm were released they were also released.
So they only missed the boat in the first book "Storm Fall" after they they diligently gave us these books and now they might not be classics but they didn't have to be just the fact that they exist and that it has the elements which Richard Castle would've written.
The premise of the book (Heat Wave) is that it is the novel that the fictional novelist wrote, based on his experiences in the first season of the show.I enjoy watching Castle, largely because the main character of the novelist is played by Nathan Fillion, and because he is given plenty of witty things to say and fun situations to play in.
Because this story had an entire book with which to play out the action there was a lot more going on: more suspects, more murders, more cases that end up being involved and more false endings.
Either way, the series is far batter in that capacity than the book.But, thankfully there is only the one nausea-inducing sex scene and the bulk of the story is the comical banter and crime drama from Castle that I love so I can forgive the writer and still enjoy the story.
It is an actual book written by the fictional author Richard Castle (Nathan Fillion), from the ABC show Castle.
During the course of the show, Castle starts using Beckett as inspiration for his new character Nikki Heat.
The first Nikki Heat book is Heat Wave.
As a novelty item (haha, novel-ty), ABC released Heat Wave as though it is a real book by a real author, right down to an about the author, author's picture of Nathan Fillion on the jacket cover, acknowlegdements, and dedication (same as from the show).
Thank you to whoever actually wrote this book.
You know this books written after the movie or the TV show success?
The ones that make you feel you are reading a movie script feebly composed into phrases?
Even though it was not written as an exact movie script, I felt the scenario in the background.Heat Wave felt like a book written for money and nothing more.
The best thing you can say about this book is that it is short, so you can read it fast and forget about it even faster.
The only enjoyable thing in this book was the suspense plot.
okay, trying to voice what I thought and how I approached it.First off: brilliant marketing idea.Second: I love the meta layer of a fictional character publishing a book (in my reality) which is inspired by the woman he is in love with (yup I'm a shipper, your argument is invalid).
I give it a thumbs up.Now. All that meta out of the way, the story itself, without KB and RC attached to it, was okay.
I'm not one to read crime, I get bored and lose interest.
I really like Beckett (though I want to slap some sense into her sometimes) but Heat...
You like crime?
This book is a fun novelty for fans of the show, "Castle," as it's the one Richard Castle is writing during the first season of the show.
I mean, Nikki Heat as the main character is kind of cheesy, of course, but the other ones were grating: Castle was Rook, Ryan and Esposito were Raley and Ochoa--collectively known as Roach.
I'll probably read the other two, just to see how they continue to incorporate show elements and to see what they do with the very big difference in the relationship between Castle and Kate Beckett compared to Rook and Nikki Heat.
But is it only because of all the fangirl squee I get out of thinking about how this book is written by 'Richard Castle'?
The way Nikki is drawn to Rook (haha, smooth name change there, Rick) is exactly how I can imagine him fantasizing about Beckett.If the book hadn't related to the TV show, it still would have been a pretty fantastic story, I think.
If it were for the series, I don't know how well I would like the characters--they could seem a little flat at times, but since the author is playing a character writing a character, I'm willing to give it a little room to flex.
This lies somewhere between reading Castle-Beckett fanfiction and reading a novelization of the show's script. I'd recommend it for more avid fans of the show -- although they will probably be befuddled that this was supposed to be written by author Richard Castle, who is lauded as a writing genius on the show, as this seems to be rushed-to-press by a hack of a ghostwriter instead. As a standalone mystery, without having the show's characters as a starting point, the cast comes off as paper thin, although the mystery itself stands up to most pulp whodunits.
If you like the TV show, you should like the book. The humor is the same, the characters are well known, although renamed, and although it feels a bit like fun-fiction, it's good fun fiction. I's clearly written to entertain, and it does it's job well. I had a lot of fun reading it, and thereofre feel generous, therefore I'm giving it a four.
