https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498214.Daggerspell
Add to that an intriguing imagination and strong world building, and you have the foundation of a great book.To top it off, the story is engaging, exciting, and unpredictable.The only thing that may put people off, and did give me pause, is the very thing that becomes the book's (and the series') strength.
But, of course it slowly becomes clear that these are the same people and that we are seeing the start of the entanglement that keeps them reappearing in each other's lives down the centuries.The tale encompasses quite a few battles but the warfare and sword fights are never the real focus and while well handled aren't detailed in terms of violence and gore.
Nevyn, a sorcerer known as a 'dweomermaster,' is the only one of the people in this situation who is aware of the cycle of Wyrd, and one of his goals is to connect with the others as they enter their new life cycles and correct his mistakes.What adds depth and complexity to the overall plot is that the characters are working out their Wyrd in three different time periods.
On re-read, the time changes flow better, and the situations playing out slightly differently in the second time period adds to the sense of tragedy to the first and hope for the third.Truly a great read for those who like complex epic fantasy.
The blessing in this novel was that one man, Nevyn, which sounds like ‘no one’ has lived through three lives and walks that anguished road with those people who he failed to help the first time.Another integral part of this novel is the Welsh-like feel to their world.
“What happens next?” I’m not a believer in reincarnation, but the way things work out for the characters in that life cycle kind of made me glad that it exists in this novel.Magic and Magical Folks:I loved that Jill could see and interact with the Wildfolk.
Uhh so I really liked the pretty setting and the idea of multiple lives buuuut totally missed the memo on how she gets raped by her brother in more than one of them. I'm definitely not here to sit through that. Plus, the writing and dialogue were kind of... off. They just felt unrealistic and like something a beginning or younger author would do in an initial draft. So there were some promising elements in this book, but I just wasn't a fan in the end.
So I'm maybe 100 pages into this book and I don't know...
I understand her characters and what they think and feel and most importantly why they make the choices they do.
I don't understand any of the choices these characters make.
The book reads like its some weird out of body experience.
I feel like a shadow or ghost reading about these characters.
And its not like reading about incest is new to me.
Who thinks like that!?
I did not remember everything (srsly it was years ago, I read them in Swedish so I had to be like 11-13.) I loved Rhodri and I wanted him and Jill to be together foreeeever.
That is all I know.In the present we have Nevyn, an 400 year old "mage" who travels the land trying to right a wrong.
I do like Jill, she was naive in a good way.
I do feel like the blame could be put on another ahole and not the one one would think.The other past lives takes place after this one.
Nobles and lords might only a have a few men at arms and a large battle involves only a few hundred people.
What is really interesting is that in this world people have a 'Wyrd', a kind of fate that they need to work out and it can take many lifetimes to achieve.
So with all characters here we spend most of our time in the 'current' timeline but we also have two other stories of their previous lives and we can see how their fates became entangled.
It really is quite an original story and I don't recall reading anything like it which is refreshing.
You'll have a real ending at the end of book 4.The story is set in an alternative 11th century, Kerr imagining a celtic culture having survived and evolved into the Middle Ages thanks to a group of Gaulish-like people having settled long ago in a new territory.Our heroes are Jill, Rhodry, Cullyn and Nevyn.
A magic common folk is afraid of or don't believe in, but that is truly known only by long trained dweomermasters.
And he will have no rest until he accomplishes it.The great originality of course of this saga is to make the readers discover in long flashbacks the past lives of our heroes.
I had read the first two books in this series way back, probably over 25 years ago.
I realized with this novel (and the entire series of 15 novels), that I would need a way to keep track of them all, especially given that we're dealing with reincarnations of the same characters over many time periods and mostly with different names.
After all, just knowing that Garreant in the year 643 is the same person (in reincarnated form) as Cullyn in the 1060s isn't enough because that character will have 8 other reincarnations over the entire series, all with different names.
One of the things I enjoy about this is the vocab. It's just so Welsh, reminds me of home.Characters have been set up, action started and appetites whetted. Initially, the time changes were confusing but you quickly get to grips with this. Part two to follow.

It can make for complicated reading and an issue with pacing, but it genuinely brings the events to life.The idea is that in the year 643 Galrion (who is to become Nevyn) makes a series of decisions that causes his lady love Brangwen to turn away from a life of dweomer (the name for magic) and become embroiled in an incestuous relationship with her own brother.
The strength of Kerr's writing is not so much in the story itself, but in the characters who inhabit it, and in the way she is able to tell each of the short stories about one of the lives that Brangwen lives.
A friend of mine recommended this book to me, and now I regret reading it.
Why?????The story in itself isn't all that bad, I find the overall plot quite intriguing actually, but not all the politics in this book.
I have a feeling that most of the parts I felt were unnecessary will be explained in future books, but I'm not sure if I have the patience for that.
It isn't exactly like it was approved of in the book, but the fact that he almost couldn't help himself just made me mad.
THIS BOOK WAS REALLY ANTICLIMACTIC!
Ohhhh....yippeee!!Another epic fantasy series that I can get into!!Wonderful world building and I love how it flips back and forth....and the premise of the book??So freakin' unique and out of the box!I have been having such a hard time trying to find a decent epic/high fantasy that isn't one dimensional and with a female protagonist. I honestly think I read them all until I came across this series!
It is also nice to see characters who are reasonably quick on the uptake: when there’s a “no man can kill him” prophecy about an opponent, I worried they’d be lost for half the book, but it only takes a few pages for the guys to appeal to Jill.The story takes place in an alternate version of medieval Wales, and Kerr’s worldbuilding deserves the praise it’s been consistently given; much fantasy takes place in “quasi-medieval” worlds, but this one feels like an authentic medieval setting, as well-researched and thought through as historical fiction.
Book 1 of 15 in total, the first in a long series it has a lot to live up to and a lot to accomplish, however it did just that.
Jill as the main female character is wonderful and everything a strong lead should be, she's smart and strong and she makes the perfect character for all people who prefer female leads.Nevyn as the main male lead is a wonderful character that you cant help but feel sorry for and hope he achieves his dream.Would recommend to any fantasy lover.
I enjoyed it so much that I felt that I had to pay it forward, in the hopes that someone else might read these words and decide to pick up one of the best fantasy novels that I've read in YEARS, (with the exception of The Game of Thrones, of course.)Daggerspell was a well written novel with well developed characters and an interesting plot line.
I loved how Kerr utilized the ideas of karma and reincarnation to develop her wonderfully original world.
I've already purchased the next three books in the series and I look forward to revisiting Kerr's world soon!
I got approximately 75% of the way through, and it is actually revulsion for aspects of the plot that caused me to stop.Books whose major themes are rape and incest bother me.This is a book in which the major characters are reincarnated over and over, typically as family members, and each time they are reincarnated, rape, murder, and/or incest results, from brother-sister to (ughh) father-daughter.
Clearly it is not memories; if it is souls, how can souls that are capable of these horrific acts ever be "good" or "pure" in other lives?I really wish I could like and/or finish the book; I am enchanted by the worldbuilding, which is based on Welsh culture and legend.
Eh. It's alright. The Deverry universe is essentially Celtic reincarnation role-play fantasy, complete with elves & gnomes, though it also borrows heavily from standard Tolkien tropes. Some parts were good, other parts tedious as hell. The magic & the cheesy elvish stuff was fine (& frankly, I'm surprised how many people are put off by the bad-karma incest -- y'all so squeamish, it's more like Shakespeare than George RR Martin >:P). But the MCs were flat, the pacing was awful, &am
Eh. It's alright.
The Deverry universe is essentially Celtic reincarnation role-play fantasy, complete with elves & gnomes, though it also borrows heavily from standard Tolkien tropes.
Some parts were good, other parts tedious as hell.
The magic & the cheesy elvish stuff was fine (& frankly, I'm surprised how many people are put off by the bad-karma incest -- y'all so squeamish, it's more like Shakespeare than George RR Martin >:P).
But the MCs were flat, the pacing was awful, & the lack of chapters made boring scenes even more tedious & unending.
2.5 stars, rounded up 3 for the good bits.
The setting is a very well realised Celtic/Gaulish world.
It follows a set of characters over centuries through their various rebirths and one character who lives through the whole period.
Its pacing is not in a linear time.I felt that Except for Nevyn and Brangwen/Jill the other characters haven’t been very well realised.
Especially Rhodry who seems to be some kind of prophesised saviour comes off as very annoying and childish.
Nevyn and Brangwen’s tale at the beginning is quite tragic and poor Nevyn, the most likable character, seems to have the cruellest wyrd.But on the whole, the novel felt kind of mundane to me.
This is basically every single trope I thirsted for as a tween/teen desperately seeking fantasy.Jill, a young girl who's destined for great things and caught between two futures.Cullyn, a gruff merc who wants to deny the future as much as possible because the now is fine.Rhodry, a nobleman who feels aimless but largely wants nothing more then to do the right thing.Nevyn, wise weirdo who probably shouldn't keep all those secrets to himself because let's face it they do no one any good unsaid.All stuck in a fate they all couldn't avoid if they tried.This book, maybe because of when it was written (and revised) feels like my childhood reading Mercedes Lackey, Marjorie Kellogg, Tanya Huff, Janny Wurts and Elizabeth Scarborough.
Yes.I would not recommend anyone starts reading the Deverry cycle unless they intend to read them all, as the macroscopic story is at least as important as the microscopic ones, and as such I am reviewing the books as a set.I almost give them 4 stars (excellent) but in the end I am not enjoying them quite as much as I did in my early 20's and so I settled on 3 stars (good).
As fantasy novels go the concepts and the writing are really excellent but for me the last couple of books haven't been as enjoyable as the early ones and it's a lot to expect people to read fifteen novels.
I read this for the r/fantasy bingo challenge.This was a fun read. The worldbuilding is impressive - does it fall under historical fantasy? I suspect that it's based on early British/Welsh history, but I'm not sure. I liked that the novel takes us through the reincarnations of the major characters that reflect/have repercussions on the major events in the story. It was surprisingly long for a book that went by quickly - perhaps it's the writing style, which feels simple (in this sense: not ornate/overly descriptive).
Loved the classic nature of this story, with real echoes of Celtic Britain and some interesting twists of its own. Also loved the fact that it was fantasy for adults, unlike some of its contemporaries. Feel this is now completely overlooked and underrated, which is a shame.
9/10Magic, reincarnation, romance, battles, betrayals, and a definite Celtic feel to the story--what more could you ask?
Meh.
The settings and lives of the various characters felt real, and I appreciated the contrast across the various time points.
(hide spoiler)] I also feel like I missed Nevyn's transformation into a wise man: one chapter he was making selfish decisions and then boom, after that he always did the right things for the right reasons.Overall, this would be worth rereading to me just for the worldbuilding -- the settings, the magic, the descriptions.
I always hesitate to start a series I know is really long, and the idea of reading (at least) 14 more books to find out what happens to Nevyn and Jill seems daunting.
For the love of God -----  whhyyy?? I made it to page 101. Everything about this book sounded good to me, and it was good, up until the (view spoiler)[ incestuous act. Holy fucking PUKE!! That's a subject that makes me cringe. (hide spoiler)]No. Just NO.
Sexual attraction (always heterosexual) is portrayed as an irresistible, inevitable force that transcends time itself and bends men and women to its will (again and again as they are born anew).On p130 we are told that "the one power allowed to her as a woman, to use her beauty and her body to bring her man to the place where he would listen to her instead of only to his whims." That goes as badly for the female characters as would be expected but seems to be accepted within the book as right.
What better way to start off the new year than with a re-read of my favorite fantasy series?
Daggerspell is a wonderful start to the long-running and many-volumed series that leaves you wanting more and more and more.Back when I was in high school, I picked up The Fire Dragon without realizing that it was book #11 in this series.
Realizing my mistake I ran to the library, found Daggerspell, and immediately started reading it.
It was love at first page.Jill and Rhodry are two of my favorite fantasy characters.
