https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49436.Three_Cups_of_Tea
Mortenson is a quirky do-gooder who commits himself to building schools in Pakistan and Afghanistan in order to educate the poor (especially the girls) who are so often lost in the rural mountains of these isolated areas.
First off, I love reading adventure stories about far-away places, and learning more about the variety of cultures in Islamic Pakistan and various other -stans was enough to pull me all the way through the book.
He didn’t seem into forcing Western ideas onto the villages, beyond simple wants to educate and equalize.More than that, though, I was interested in learning about how the Taliban is using the same tactics as Mortenson in order to win support in these rural areas - and they are winning.
If you'd like 350+ pages of the above prose, by all means read this book.What else besides the writing?
I mean, I know that it's OK to take a little poetic license with this stuff, but the writer has Mortensen strutting his stuff triumphantly all over the Pakistani mountain ridges in 1997...guess it didn't fit in with the narrative arc that Mother Teresa had the indecency to die 3 years too early for Mortensen to mourn her loss at the same time he's reached his own personal crisis of faith.Wow this sounds bitter.
By the time I got to around page 100, I finally found Relin detailing something Mortenson wasn't good at, and I was relieved that he really wasn't the second coming of Jesus like Relin was brainwashed to believe.If you're reading this:Dear David Oliver-Relin,Mr. Gregory Mortenson HAS FLAWS.Please get this through your thick skull, since it's obvious Mortenson didn't write a word of this.Sincerely,a Frustrated Reader.
Why would my English teacher assign something completely fabricated and horribly written for me to read over the summer when she could've chosen much better alternatives that actually have character and aren't filled with cheesy metaphors?I've heard the previous years' choice was Lord of the Flies, and at this point, I welcome that book in with open arms.
(Pages and pages about a failed relationship Mortenson had before he met his wife, for instance, are almost entirely tangential.) The story would have made a good profile in "The New Yorker" or "The New York Times Magazine," but there's simply not enough material here to justify a 350-page book.It also doesn't help that there's almost nothing here about how the education Mortenson's schools are giving to boys and girls is actually affecting life in their villages -- or if it is.
Maybe Mortenson and Relin needed to wait another 10 years before telling their story.So far, though, I've ignored "Three Cups"'s writing.
First of all because when I just typed my first sentence here, I realized how sick I am of the words "Greg Mortenson".
My favorite part was him renting a typewriter to send out begging letters -- took him all day to type half a dozen letters.
I get a thrill just thinking about one or two people getting involved and making changes that count.
The book is two damn long, the discriptions are clumsy & too damn long and the characterization is almost non-existent.A lot of people really enjoyed this book, so I'm not saying don't bother.
It's an absolutely amazing book until you start researching the trial against Greg Mortensen and find out how much of this is ALL A LIE.
It's like he didn't think anyone would ever look into events on the other side of the world, so he just spun the craziest story that would sell?
Using people's donations to your nonprofit to buy your own book to keep it on bestseller lists (instead of building schools with that $$) and then pocketing the profits is sketchy all around.
And how does having dead people on the board of your nonprofit seem remotely legitimate?!?
From the first page of this memoir, the ghostwriter's sickening tone of hero worship has Greg Mortenson healing the sick, making the lame walk, and performing superhumanly selfless acts on a daily basis since his earliest childhood.
Luckily, the author stops short of having Mortenson deliver his wife's baby and walking on water.
She has also penned her own memoir My Path Leads to Tibet: The Inspiring Story of How One Young Blind Woman Brought Hope to the Blind Children of Tibet.
Another book disappeared from my shelves.
Krakauer, like Hitchens, is an iconoclast by nature and sometimes by profession.
We despise the gutter press, those tabloids that seem to exist to knock people down, but they have a place.
Am I really so immature as to like to see people's feet of clay crumbling beneath them?
Perhaps a mixture of both.________________________________I have about 3K books on my shelves.
And how many people does this "bug" affect.
GR doesn't seem to do anything about it but maybe they can't track the 'bug' down because it is done by people rather than computer programs.
The following are some of my favorite, terrible sentences from the book:“And by the time the rising sun iced the hanging glaciers of Masherbrum pale pink, like a gargantuan pastry dangling above them at breakfast time, Mortenson had agreed to shift the funds his board had approved for the doomed Khane school upside to this village whose headman had traveled so far downriver to educate himself.” (p.
As others have noted, there is a strong element of imperialism in the idea of of an American's mission to "fight terrorism and build nations" and I was quite ready to be critical about it.However I am happy to admit I really enjoyed and was inspired by the book.
"Participation" is one of the biggest buzzwords in development today and this is what Mortenson learned, and one hopes, how CAI continues to practise.
I hope he continues to maintain the relationships that take this organisation above being just another development project.Overall, I highly recommend this book, taken with just the tinest little grain of salt to aid digestion.
He not only honored his sister, but in the end honored thousands of helpless little girls in Afghanistan and Pakistan by building schools in remote places and changing their lives forever.I worked with people such as Mr. Mortenson.
The fact that his co-author was a journalist, explains why the facts were converted to sensationalism to sell the book.Does it really matter that he did not get lost and found a small village of people whom he promised a school?
Apart from helping thousands of girls, he also changed the image of America in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
The world needs people like Greg Mortenson.
Having lived and worked in Pakistan for many years, and travelled to many of the places described, I enjoyed this book as a 'fun read.' I think it is very helpful for people who only have access to information about the country through mainstream media to see a side of the people, especially poor people in rural areas who are not very educated who many in the west assume to be fundamentalists, that more accurately reflects their culture: their hospitality, their concern for the future of their children - including their daughters - and that their society, like ours, is not homogeneous.
I've known people, including women, who have slept in trucks outside village walls deep in rural Balochistan or Frontier Province for days and weeks to meet with the villagers about starting girls' schools, and worked on one village at a time much like Mortenson.
Greg Mortenson failed to climb K2, and while he headed back down the mountain, he took a wrong turn, missed his bridge, and found himself in Korphe, a village not found on his maps.
That bridge not only helped bring the school, it changed the lives of the women in the small village.
This surfaced in the book about one of the fatwas put on Greg's head: the local gangster just wanted some kickback.While David keeps himself out of the book, in the beginning, he does chronicle his first hairy helicopter ride piloted by Brigadier General Bhangoo, who had been Pakistan President Musharraf's personal pilot.
If someone wishes to sponsor one school, David told us, CAI asks for $50,000.

I was starting to bog down with the mediocre writing that several other reviewers have noticed, but then it was announced that the author was actually coming to speak in an auditorium at my place of employment.
Again, I’m inclined to believe Mortenson wasn’t thinking this way at the time, but I see he now has a blog post entitled “It Takes a School, Not Missiles.” So apparently he’s going along with the theme that is working so well.When I was unable to get into the auditorium that night, my copy of the book went back onto my table.
(NOTE: buy through the link at http://www.threecupsoftea.com/Intro.php, and you will be sending 7% of the cost back to this amazing charity.) The book is fascinating, inspirational and informative on so many levels -- exciting action story, moving human drama, exotic travelogue, social action miracle, bird's eye view of contemporary history in the making in the world's most complex and volatile region, a revelation of the tenaciousness and power of the human spirit under the most destructive conditions.
If for no other reason, please, PLEASE, read this book for its empowering message of the earth-shaping, history-altering power that begins with a SINGLE PERSON (you, me!) -- but can leverage the hearts and hands of millions to move mountains toward a common good.
This book was such a glowing endorsment for the person Greg Mortisen that I had a hard time taking in the story of what he did, because quite frankly I was getting sick of him.
and i might agree but by the time the book was over i was feeling like, "hey, some of us get lost in Pakistan while cllimbing mountains and then return to build schools for impoverished girls that would otherwise have no future and some of us totaly always give their spare change to whatever cancer drive their doing at the grocery store.
The sun is not "lemony." I hope that Balti porters are not in any way like "Lear's jester." I listened to half of it on audio because I was so distracted by the way it was written, but the reader did voices and accents for everyone.
But to Mortenson, who wouldn't learn his friends had survived until the following week, when he returned to Kabul, they looked more like question marks" (p.
Don't get me wrong, I think it's absolutely sexy to be able to name all English forms of punctuation in under a minute, but tracers are not like question marks.
But what we learn very quickly from Greg's book is that the military solution will only take us so far and that we need to follow up with solutions to help and educate the people in these backward societies.
Greg has done what it takes to get things done properly by lovingly getting to know the people one on one and then through years of work and thrift and effort has built up the relationships, built schools, bridges, helped provide clean water sources, etc.
The people know Greg, trust him, love him and give Americans a good name.
Mi associo a quei commenti che distinguono tra la vicenda umana di cui si racconta, straordinaria e ammirevole, e il libro così come è stato scritto, poco appassionante e in molti punti decisamente noioso nonostante un inizio molto promettente.Anche qualche capitolo finale è stato interessante, in particolare dove si parla del Pakistan all'indomani dell'11 settembre, ma per il resto, mi spiace ammetterlo, stavo proprio contando le pagine per metterlo da parte...Segnalo, inoltre, una grossolana inesattezza che almeno chi ha controllato il manoscritto prima della pubblicazione avrebbe dovuto correggere: si afferma che i musulmani pregano rivolti verso la Mecca dove è sepolto il Profeta.
There are a lot of missing dates, such that by the end of the book, I was still unsure as to how long it took for the first school to get built.But you keep reading ( or I did, at least) because the story is full of hope and frustration, and you really want the best of everybody, even the conivvers.
I'd rather knwo this story though from watching a TV movie or reading some expanded Sunday story in the New York Times Magazine rather than this book.Also, the other thing that bugged me in this book is how the author describes the "people" of Pakistan, which I do take some offense at, just lumping them into a sort of stereotypical group like that.
My 'book sharing' buddy loaned this book to me and it just sat on my shelf.
She said it was an amazing true story which lead her to staying up way past bed times reading.
Anyhow, definitely read this book!
It is an amazing story of Greg Mortenson's work in Pakistan building school.
he barely makes enough to afford a decent life in the US.
I LOVED: - The lessons he learns from the elders he met along the way.
thought he didn't act that way.
But they all share the dream of making the kids lives better with education.
He promised to build them a school after seeing the teacherless village children writing school assignments in the dirt with sticks.
After the first school, his work took on a life of it's own as he gained the trust of the people in other villages bringing as many schools as he possibly could to some of the poorest places in the country.
This is not a political book; however, I was left thinking we've missed the mark in how we can protect our country from terrorism.
Greg seems to have the keys--respect, hard work, love, keeping our promises and education.
I really enjoyed the photographs in the center of the book; I wish that there were many more of them.Mortenson, after failing to climb K2, dedicated his life to building schools, for educating both girls and boys, first in Pakstan (the first one in a village where the people helped him as he came off the mountain) and then eventually in Afghanistan too.How Mortenson has lived his life is laudable, although I do hope his own family is thriving.Yes, ignorance is the enemy.
Feel-good, mandatory read for anyone interested in children, the future and in current events.
He may be a future Nobel Peace Prize winner and he is undoubtedly a real-live hero.After reading, I understand more about the nature of middle East interests and of the importance of education for those who desire to learn.
He taught me that I had more to learn from the people I work with than I could ever hope to teach."p.225Let nothing perturb you, nothing frighten you.
That promise would go on to transform Mortenson from a part-time nurse and climbing nut to a man obsessed with bringing education to some of the world’s most neglected people.The story of how Mortenson managed to fulfill his naïve promise and go on not just to build one school, but dozens more across the remote mountains of Pakistan and Afghanistan, is nothing short of astounding.
Though American, Mortenson was raised by missionaries in Africa, and his sensitivity towards and ability to integrate into another culture was a crucial part of what made this project work.In addition to providing valuable insight into the lives of a people the West knows little about, this book also offers a unique perspective of the events in Pakistan and Afghanistan that led to the current war on terror.
The turgid style would have put me off completely if it weren’t the next book club read. As it is, I have skipped then abandoned it. I would have given it 2 if I hadn’t read in front of the accusations of fraud. Oh dear.
I had no idea what this book was about - and it has completely blown me away. This story of Greg Mortenson's actions to build schools for girls in Pakistan and Afghanistan as a means to fight terrorism with knowledge. This book makes me question what I'm doing with my life in a very positive way. Everyone should read this - it should be required in our education system. Tell everyone you know to read this and then go out and do something just like Greg.
This is definitely a book everyone should read.Greg Mortenson's failure to summit K2 in Pakistan led him to the small village of Korphe where he witnessed children doing their school lessons outside in the cold unsupervised.
He did not set out to teach Pakistani children (especially girls) to think like American children, but rather he set out to provide them with a means to get a well-rounded education, to have a chance in life.
Mortenson believes that the kind of education he is helping these people to earn is what will be the strongest force against terrorism; the strongest force for promoting peace.
Ignore the fluff...read this book...hear Mortenson's message.
I don't care about Mortenson's failed personal relationship with a woman who is made to sound like an uncaring, self-center b*t*h.
And I don't think that it was Mortenson's doing, I think it was Relin's.I can't blame Relin for the hero worship, but the book makes Mortenson to be almost superhuman and the prose is really, really dull.
I don't care about Mortenson's failed relationship; I want to know more about the schools.
The family background was interesting, but I failed to see how Mortenson getting beated up in school makes him special.
