https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18310944-the-sandman
The Sandman returns! This TPB is the Deluxe Edition, in hardcover format, including an extensive “behind-the-scenes” section and a gallery of sketches.Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrator: J.H. Williams IIICovers: Dave StewartLetterer: Todd Klein (NOT) UNUSUAL QUESTIONS  It is hard to create things. We have such high hopes for our creations. When you may thought that The Sandman had ended, the series returns in this prequel storyline titled Overture.I enjoyed a lot the reading of this,
Neil Gaiman done a game of words such delicious to read that you can’t do anything else than to be amazed by those sentences.J.H. Williams III displayed such stunning work of art that you can’t do anything else than to be amazed by those images.And of course, the colors of Dave Stewart and the lettering of Todd Klein (easily the best letterer in the comic books’ business), that you know that you have a masterpiece of talent in your hand while reading the book.So maybe it wasn’t the story that I was expecting, but it was a story that I am nevertheless thankful of having the priviledge of enjoying it.Since while it didn’t answer me my questions, it certainly surprised more than once (far, far more than once).
This piece of profoundness; this thing of beautiful art was that and more.I’m literally lost for words.
Gaiman has done something really special in these pages, and that’s coming from someone who hasn’t read anything in the  Sandman  series (yet).
So I’m considering this a primary review, an initial statement before I’ve read the work that goes with this prologue.
It’s not like I’m going to stop using goodreads anytime soon.
I probably still am.I wonder how I will feel about this once I’ve read the rest of the series.
Now if you’d excuse me, I’m going to read this again.
Dream of the Endless must put right something he left undone years ago.
With him are a girl named Hope and another version of himself in the form of a cat...Confession time (I've been confessing a lot this week): In my late teens/early twenties, most of the comics I read were Vertigo or Vertigo-esque.
This book takes the long way around but explains things pretty well.Like most Sandman stories, lots of concepts and ideas are thrown around, and the power of dreams proves to be pretty powerful.
A star goes mad and Dream comes a-callin'.
It’s taken two years for Neil Gaiman and his art team to complete the six issue limited series prequel, The Sandman: Overture, but they finally did it!
Sandman fans will love seeing old favourites returning like Lucien and Merv Pumpkinhead in The Dreaming, Mad Hettie, and, of course, The Endless themselves with everyone’s favourite goth chick, Death, appearing throughout the book.
Dave McKean makes a welcome return, once more doing the covers for each issue like he did for every issue of the original run.The one thing I will say is that I re-read the first three volumes of Sandman earlier this year and… unfortunately found them lacking.
I've read several of Gaiman's novels, but Sandman: The Overture (luckily it's a prequel) is my first exposure to the Sandman Series.
What stands out right away is the art.
So many of the illustrations have a fantastical and hallucinatory quality; you can't help but feel drawn into Gaiman's dream world.
The narrative was interesting (as were the characters even when several of them were merely aspects of the same character); however, it somehow took me quite a while (maybe the pace was a bit slow?) to feel engaged with the actual story.
Still, this is a series I'd like to continue.
And a glorious and great nomination for the 2016 Hugo nominations for Graphic Novel goes to: Sandman!To say that this is a either a coda or a prequel, or both, is to entirely miss the point.The fact is, there's a ton of new material, a haunting story, and some truly exemplary artwork suffusing these pages.
I think this is easily the work of love that the series always wanted to be, not that it wasn't already a gorgeous work of art.
They say you can never recapture the past...But this book warped me right back into a certain time and place that sure felt like it.
It's also *about* time...
and place...
and going back to deal with what you've done in the past, with other versions of who you could have been - what is 'you' and what is 'other' - about responsibilities, and consequences, and being stubbornly independent to a fault.
Awfully apropos, in many ways.Just about perfect.A note: I had this as an eBook, and after taking a peek, opted to wait to enjoy it until I could get my hands on a print version.
Overture is at least technically a prequel to the Sandman series, and it ends with an explanation of how Dream came to be imprisoned by an evil magician in the first place.
It reminded me of the later work of Henry James, James Joyce, and Algernon Blackwood: a quintessence of the author’s characteristics and concerns but too dense and too cryptic, too concerned with artistic materials and too little concerned with audience.Overture (2014) was issued eighteen years after the final volume, The Wake, was published—more than twice the time it took to produce the entire original series.
Well I'm lost for words, The Sandman Overture is quite simply an extraordinary piece of work, one of Neil Gaimans finest, I've absolutely no doubt.
The artwork is done by JH Williams III, and he quite simply puts a world (or three) right in your lap and draws it like he's been there, astonishing, the perfect man to collaborate the creative genius that is The Sandman.
With Overture, Gaiman sets his thoughts to a prelude and explores the events that lead into the original Sandman series.
The extras are substantial, interviews with the artist, the guy who does the words, covers, colours and some more quite fantastic art.
JHWIII has created a kalaedoscope of perfectly observed and rendered styles here that he has proven himself to be a master of the art form.Having just read this, I am left with a feeling that must be similar to that Dave Bowman must have been feeling at the climax of Kubrick's '2001: A Space Odyssey'.
It's full of stars' indeed.This book has left me wanting to throw away my pencils, pens, brushes, inks and paints because I know I'll never create something so good and simultaneously wanting to just draw and paint, paint and draw for the rest of my life in a vain attempt to even get close.Absolutely, amazingly breath-taking.P.S. There was a story too,P.P.S. Which was actually very good.
How did Dream manage to lose his powers and become imprisoned before the start of the original run of the series?
Who wrote the rules of the game?(view spoiler)[ Dream and the other Endless are children of TIME and DARKNESS - once lovers and now enstranged and largely disinterested whether their offspring survives or not the current crisis.
A new favorite character introduced in this prequel is HOPE, not a "D" type Endless, but a feeble, delicate and vulnerable alien creature trying to survive in a universe gone crazy.
Time plays a circular game, like the worm Ourobouros: We come from Nothing and head toward Nothing.
It was one of my favorite comics of that decade.The opening story of the '90s Sandman series begins with the main character, Dream, being captured via an occult ritual.
A few fold outs invite the reader into the book - as immersive an experience as you are likely to have reading a graphic work.
The difference between this work and so many other graphic novels is that the illustrations and color here were designed.
It is a solemn, nearly worshipful thing to read this work, and utterly immersive.It is obvious, from reading the book, that Gaiman is a much deeper person than I give him credit for.
An engaging tale with depth and scope bordering on brilliance. The artwork by J.H. Williams is out of boundaries and impressive.Gaiman is at his highest when working on Sandman IMO. OVERALL GRADE: A minus to A.
I'm rounding up because of the artwork, the cool McKean covers, and the great epilogue.
As per usual, Neil Gaiman's imagery is wonderful and goes perfectly with the excellent artwork provided.
If Dream himself is confused and lost, I imagine that all of us dreamers would be too.It just didn't pack the punch of the main series.
It's decent enough as a revisit, but I would not recommend a new reader to start here.
If I had started with this volume, I highly doubt I would have continued with the main series.
We spent much of our time in the comics section, and when my eyes lit on the Deluxe Hardcover Edition of Sandman: Overture and opened it to a few random pages, the artwork just stunned me with its incredible richness and detail.
In the end I bought this beautiful volume but carefully saved it until I had finished the entire 76-volume series, because I knew that I would appreciate the story more if I knew all about Morpheus before reading this prequel.
In fact, this is one comic I can see myself reading again and again since the artwork and story complement each other so well.
For me it is such a pleasure to be reminded that before the success of a few middling novels led to an even more disappointing trudge of half-hearted YA efforts, Gaiman was once capable of creating the truly wondrous, and he clearly still has the goods when he embraces his true medium: the sequential art form. This overture is a dense psychedelic fantasia of wild desire and unhinged dreaming. Reminded me of why ten years ago The Sandman made me fall head over heels for the potential of the comic book as a work of art.
This is that explanation, and it fits in just as it should.The story itself is quite successful at what it sets out to do.
It sets the scene for the first volume of Sandman, and it sheds a bit more light on the Endless family.
Naturally, I loved the way Gaiman wrote it, and I don't think Sandman fans will be at all disappointed.
And the art is a major wow.
And bonus, the art is perfectly suited for the story.
As a package, this is one of the better volumes of Sandman out there, and it does what it was mean to do perfectly.
Sandman - Overture: J.H. Williams III Steals the Show  Despite all the unfair shit-talking that's been done about 'Sandman' over the years, criticism about the mediocre-tending-toward-awful artwork that plagues the early-going of the series are legitimate. As unfortunate as it is that between 'Vol. 1 - Preludes and Nocturnes' and 'Vol.4 - Season of Mists', the art is tolerated more than enjoyed, Gaiman's still evolving ideas were strong enough to keep readers interested. The early material has
Then Vertigo launched two more Sandman-based monthly series: 'Lucifer', based on the events that took place in 'Season of Mists', when Lucifer quit Hell and moved 'topside' to open a fancy nightclub, recently adapted as a shitty TV show; and 'House of Mystery', based on Gaiman's version of the classic series, relocated to The Dreaming.Artwork from 'Endless Nights', in order of brilliance: Frank Quitely, Milo Manara, and Miquelanxa Prado (original art, sans word balloons):When Gaiman returned to his most popular character, it was as a conquering fucking hero, having made his name as a best-selling, critically acclaimed novelist.
A short story arc giving the readers the pre story of Dream. The story starts out a bit disjointed and even at the end is not as satisfying as I would have liked. The artwork is great and offsets some of my disappointment in the story.
However, as it does bookend some spoilers, it's best read after the main series.
Not just for spoiler avoidance, but also with hindsight to deepen the understanding of why Dream chose the path he did through Sandman.
And hello mummy and daddy, even immortal embodiments of primal forces can have parental baggage.Some extras include the process between writing and art, coloring, font and more.
I highly enjoyed the peeks into the creative forces behind the series in general, and this volume in particular.I'd give this 10 stars if I could.
Though it ends with the beginning (of the opus), this overture (produced after the finale) is best performed (read) after the finale. I imagine if you reread what came before (though it's really what comes after), you will see more than you did before.The art is spectacular (in the true meaning of the word as well).
I was also as happy as anyone else that the dude agreed after 25 years to do a prequel to help us answer questions about what the Endless were really all about.This volume I actually read like a Real Comics Fan, collecting issue by issue, then got the deluxe hardcover with all the essays on the process by illustrator star J.
And it does provide some ideological/fantasy overview, which is to say it does help fans with some questions about What It Is All About.Will THIS volume get you into the whole series?
So it's a sequel to the famous Sandman series, which is actually a prequel to his adventures that started in vol. 1 of the series. Gorgeous illustrations, good story, although a bit too short for my liking. But in general Gaiman never disappoints me with Sandman. Made me want to reread the whole series again, damn... And I will!The beginners in Sandman's universe should NOT start reading series from this point though, it might spoil a lot of mysteries and surprises.
I received this from Edelweiss and DC Comics in exchange for an honest review. I'm completely unfamiliar with Sandman other than knowing that it ran for 75 issues and was written by Neil Gaiman. I was hoping that this would be a good jumping off point into the series, but I had a hard time following what was happening. The artwork was odd, and some of the fonts used were very difficult to read.
Ameeeii!! As páginas dessa HQ podem facilmente serem colocadas em quadros. Que trabalho incrível. A historia me deixou com um gostinho de quero mais. Maravilhada de mergulhar nesse mundo de novo. Adorei. ❤️
The art! Wow!! The story! Holy Moly!! If you have any interest in graphic novels, don’t skip this one! There is a reason it has won so many awards.
It works on many levels- superb artwork, wonderful plot and great dialogue are the cornerstones of this wonderful prelude to his epic classic Sandman series.Morpheus must undertake a pressing journey to save reality and the ending of the tale is where the Sandman series starts.
More than that I shall not say since this one is a must read for anyone who appreciates the brilliant talents displayed in this book.I really appreciated all the aspects of this story.
Always remember that no matter how much I opine about this work I can never match Gaiman's talent-so stop reading my review and go read this amazing book.
Must read for anyone, regardless of their thoughts on comics, who appreciates a great story.
This is the most beautiful book I've ever read in terms of story combined with artwork. It is absolutely gorgeous!
I did have some questions about Dream and what came before, and this does answer some of them, although there are fewer scenes with the siblings than I would have expected.
The art is stunning and varied, as I have grown to expect, in fact I put off reading this for a while after it came out because I knew that would be my last first experience with The Sandman and it is truly, in my opinion and the opinion of many, the masterpiece of Neil Gaiman's life.
But really, truly, to understand Gaiman is to read and love The Sandman.
Reviewed by Brad and Marion: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
