https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831470.Bambi
I cried. 😪
Can't even handle it... Why do things have to be sad??
It focuses on education and joy: a Mother's love and a forest welcoming a birth.
Emphasis is on friendship, fun, and like German-speakers of my family, Felix Salten lacks no humour.
From a more abridged story, I know the language sequence well, in which Flower tutors Bambi amid laughter.
His mission was to evoke empathy and questions I perceive like this:“How would you feel, if you solely sought joy and the Mother you adored were killed?
Animals live for children and loved-ones just like we do and you are their terror”.
Like most of my generation; the reading of this classic children's story was overshadowed by my memories of the Disney movie.
Think of this as the origin of Lion King if you will; a story of the circle of life and the transition of the crown from father to son (with several nods to the destructiveness of man via hunting and carelessness, which leads to a forest fire).
This is one of those stories that you can read as little or as much into as you want; depending on your age, naiveté and viewpoint.
Regardless, I recommend this story for all ages as an enjoyable read.
. . . . never again
Bambi is born the new prince of the forrest.
Throughout the book Bambi makes friends and learns important life lessons.
As he befriends Thumper, Flower, and Faline.
The great prince and Owl help Bambi grow into a young respectable book.
Thumper, Bambi and Flower all find girlfriends in the spring and all is well again.
Bambi escapes and after a while Faline and Bambi's fawns are born.This book is full of all the emotions.
It really teaches the circle of life and how animals survive.
Disney does a great job of creating illustration so that children can make that connection to real life.
The illustrations in this book are fantastic, though they are old fashioned they really make the story. The story is very similar to the movie. So many emotions are felt when I read this book happiness, laughter and sadness, when Bambi's mother died. This book is a classic and I enjoyed reading it.
Bambi is a newborn deer exploring the world with his mother and friends Thumper and Flower. His friends show him what the world is all about and help him learn about life. This book is an easy read for children. It could also help spark discussion about their favorite things outside.
This was just like the Disney movie. I would like to read the original story someday
Enjoyed watching the classic movie. Was nice to see it in book form, especially with the original movie illustrations.
It's a Little Golden Book - what's not to love?
Just wonderfull
I liked this, it was cute and it made me want to re-watch the movie all over again. The part where his mother dies gets to me haha.
Little Golden Books – Bambi Nice to return to these first reads of mine.
Meglepően őszinte és tárgyilagos történet az erdő lakóiról. Élet és halál regénye, a felnőtté válásé, a magányé, a társkeresésé. Mennyivel másabb történetet faragott ebből a Walt Disney! ;-)
Summary version of the movie. Too advanced for under 4 and too simple for over 6.
Great take on the original story! The illustrations goes with the words wonderfully.
In the meadow, Bambi meets the female fawn Faline, her mother, Aunt Ena, and his own father, the Great Prince of the Forest.
Crows suddenly begin to caw, startling all the animals to flee the meadow; Bambi struggles against the rushing animals, trying to find his mother, but his father arrives just in time to press Bambi and his mother out of the meadow before a hunter can shoot them.
His father appears in front of him and tells Bambi, "Your mother can't be with you anymore" (implying that she has been killed by hunters), then leads him away.In the spring, an adult Bambi is reunited with Thumper and Flower as the animals around them begin pairing up with mates.
First of all this is more like one of those film books that was made so fans of the movie could also read.
From there you have plenty of mistakes such as Bambi provides his name for the crowd (which Flower was mysteriously at) instead of his mouth and deer having paws when they specifically have hooves.
The little fawn also goes to the meadow for the first time against his mother's wishes and with Thumper instead, which is truly against the movie to begin with as well as the original book.
Again this is a horrid book and I am so glad that I wasn't subjected to it when I was young.
The hero of the book is Bambi, and his destiny is traced from a tiny fawn to a mature stag with a family.
Some of the charters are his cousin Ava, and her two little fawns Gobo and Faline.
also the hare, the squirrel, the old stag, the wood pecker, the screech-owl, the magpie, the crow, the doe Marena, and the wicked fox who meets his just ends from He. Now He is the only human animal in the forest.
He kills young Gobo that way.
Because the original story takes place in a German forest, the animals are different than those in the Disney version and many are not named like Disney did.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
I'm not sure if it was because Walt Disney published the book of Bambi just because the movie has always been such a classic or what but this book was not very well put together.
I refute that Bambi will always be a good tale for children as well as a wonderful movie for the whole family to enjoy.
I guess I'm just frustrated because a book like this should have been more thought out because of how classic the movie was.
All being said, I will always read Bambi to my children and students.
As a story, this book is merely a dull retelling of the classic film. However, as a parent, this book is interminably long, with huge blocks of text and no pictures. Reading it aloud is absolutely a huge undertaking, especially to a toddler. Which might not be such a bad thing once, or even twice, but upon the 50th retelling of the book, it is an enormous drag on emotional resources.If I were a mean parent I would simply hide this book from my daughter until she reached the age where she could read it herself.
In Walt Disney's Bambi, it is a sad story about a young deer who loses his mother to a hunter.
He learms that when a old stag comes along and tells Bambi that he must learn how to survive on his own.
Bambi makes friends with other forest animals, and once he's older the same old swag came to tell him that their was a forest fire.
After the next year the forest was almost fully grown and Bambi watched from the hill top as the new prince of the forest.
And till this date, I love this book and the movie.
Simply written with the flair for touching your hearts, this book narrates the story of Bambi, a young fawn born to The Great Prince of the forest.
It goes on to describe the events that happen in his life, the tragedies and the corner stones, the way he climbs out of his sorrows and eventually, takes over as the Great Prince himself.
A charming yet deep rooted story, a must read for young ones as well as the adults.
Go on, fall in love with it.
Bambi made me remember parenthood and how my mom was a great mother.
How the world really isn't this way.
I try to teach my daughter that children don't actually act like this and you can't make them.
Remember life isn't a fairy tale.
You can only be nice yourself but in the end you might get hurt and loose your way.
Like Bambi he lost his mother but was not alone.
Life as we know will not be like that but with God it will feel like that.
Stay with God you will never be alone.
I like the little golden book series for sharing stories with PreSchool-2. I have always liked how loss and love is handled in this story which is based on  Bambi  by Felix Salten.Age Range: 3 - 7 yearsGrade Level: Preschool - 2
This book is based on the Disney movie. Boring!But maybe there is no real Bambi book. Maybe Bambie only exists as a Disney movie and all the merchandising knock-offs spawned from the movie. Anyway, in my immediate family, my sister as a little kid is known for crying in the movie theater when Bambi's mother died. Or maybe not. Maybe she cried at the Rescuers. Well, if she did cry at the demise of Bambi's mom, who could blame her? That's sad stuff.
I decided to read this book becuase its a great book and its one of my faves this book compeletes the "written before i was born" category (orignally published in 1970's) i liked that bambi is soooo cuuutee and she has lots of little forest friends ! i dislike that bambis mum got shot and she was left alone ! i recomend this to 5-10 yr olds i must say i am a big kid soo i love it ! its a great bed time story :)looovee steph
I really liked this book when I was a little girl. This is a story of Bambi, a baby dear and his mother teaches him all about the world and hunters. He meets friends along the way and his mother is shot one winter by a hunter. He gets older and ends up liking a female deer. They become together and there is a fire in the woods. Bambi and his dad help get everyone to safety. Then the story ends with Bambi having a baby.
