https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/374388.Testament_of_Youth
When the war comes, it is seen not as some isolated ordeal of shelling and trenches, nor as a political collapse – but as the Apocalypse for an entire society that was already struggling with class relationships and gender imbalances, and whose failure to address these issues was in fact central to the way it faced military conflict.It's hard to write about this memoir objectively because reading it is such an emotional experience.
She slips but rarely, this here I consider such a slip:I wish those people who write so glibly about this being a holy War, and the orators who talk so much about going on no matter how long the War lasts and what it may mean, could see a case--to say nothing of 10 cases--of mustard gas in its early stages--could see the poor things burnt and blistered all over with great mustard-coloured suppurating blisters, with blind eyes--sometimes temporally, sometimes permanently--all sticky and stuck together, and always fighting for breath, with voices a mere whisper, saying that their throats are closing and they know they will choke.For a brief moment that stiff upper lip slips and she lets us see the horror thrust upon her.
Videoreseña: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UFD3w...Creo que voy a tardar en poner en orden mis ideas con este libro.
Hay partes de las memorias de Brittain que me han impresionado mucho, personas que aquí aparecen a través de cartas, diarios y recuerdos que tampoco olvidaré, pero por otro lado he sentido durante todo el libro cierto malestar porque por un lado la propia Vera Brittain me parece digna de admiración y compasión, desde luego fue una mujer impresionante, tremendamente adelantada a su época, progresista, feminista y con un carácter tremendo, pero por otro me resultó (especialmente en su juventud) antipática y snob en muchos momentos.
Aún así, no puedo dejar de admirarla, y estas memorias, aunque en cierta medida me han dejado agotada, también me han encantado.Y PARA EL QUE NO LO SEPA: Se publicará en castellano a lo largo de este 2017, ¡A por él!
It is the account of Vera Brittain’s wartime experiences, from a sheltered middle class upbringing to starting at Somerville College Oxford and then to volunteer work as a VAD nurse in Britain, France and Malta.
Brittain takes her story to 1925 covering her time at Oxford, the post-traumatic stress resulting from her wartime service, her growth as a journalist and writer, her friendship with Winifred Holtby, her work for the League of Nations and ending with her marriage.
Brittain takes the reader through the loss of innocence and the changes in society wrought by the war.
More pertinently, Shirley is the daughter of Vera Brittain, who is the author of Testament of Youth.
What Shirley enjoyed in her academic life, Vera had to fight for hers tooth and nail.Vera Brittain was born in 1893.
And what she has to say is equally evocative.Testament of Youth is an account of her sojourn as a nurse on the battlefields of The Great War. While Vera's tone is down-to-earth, she knows how to trust to her instincts as a rebel.
Testament of Youth is a great book.
After such walks, Edward secretly composed Vera a poem dated 19 April 1914:"Down the long white road we walked together,Down between the grey hills and the heather,Where the tawny-crestedPlover cries.You seemed all brown and soft, just like a linnet,Your errant hair had shadowed sunbeams in it,And there shone all AprilIn your eyes.With your golden voice of tears and laughterSoftened into song: 'Does aught come afterLife,' you asked, 'When life isLaboured through?What is God, and all for which we're striving?''Sweetest sceptic, we were born for living.Life is Love, and Love is--You, dear, you.'"World war one then broke out.
Whenever I think of the War to-day, it is not as summer but always as winter; always as cold and darkness and discomfort, and an intermittent warmth of exhilarating excitement which made us irrationally exult in all three. Its permanent symbol, for me, is a candle stuck in the neck of a bottle, the tiny flame flickering in an ice-cold draught, yet creating a miniature illusion of light against an opaque infinity of blackness.The temptation to exploit our young wartime enthusiasm must have been
On the one hand, this is one of the works by women that make up a little more than 20% of the much bandied about 1001 Books to Read Before You Die, but it follows the trail that women are not worth writing much beyond the recording of their every so often singular experiences and unusual circumstances.
"Why is it that all my university mentors want me to do research-work at the expense of fiction, and my literary mentors fiction at the expense of history?"...She says that she has never yet written a book without making an enemy...
Why?The woman, Vera Brittain (18931970) is a fascinating person and lived through a difficult but interesting time.
Following Vera we see the Great War through the eyes of a British middleclass woman.
After the war she continued her studies at Oxford switching from literature to history, worked closely with the League of Nations and supported the feminist movement and pacifism.
Anybody seeking to understand British life before the Great War, during the war and after and how the world was irrevocably changed simply must read this book.
Do not choose the audiobook if you choose to read this book.
When the war years had passed, she was alone and bereft and struggling to think what life could possibly have to offer.There seemed to be nothing left in the world, for I felt that Roland had taken with him all my future and Edward all my past.The book is not perfect.
That can easily be forgiven, however, in the face of the genuine and heartfelt account, particularly of the war years, a section in which I hung on every word.I could have cried for these young men, whose lives were thrown away so cavalierly by the governments who refused to solve their disagreements without loss of life.
Although at times a bit tedious to read (lots of direct quotes from letters, for example), Vera moves from a rather pampered, sheltered, middle-class girl to an articulate, understanding, educated, caring woman through war, loss, deprivation, work, awareness and thought.
She takes in and considers all sides and ideas, becoming in the end a strong, independent, loving woman.This story take us to her marriage to who appears to be a warm, understanding, loving man, who accepts Vera and her ambitions.
I like the woman that Vera became and I'm glad she told her story.
I realize now, however, that while the title certainly refers to the tragedy of all those young people going off to fight and not making it back, it is just as much a reference to the things that come with youth; idealism, naivety.
Heroism in the abstract seems the major reason a lot of young men went (and probably still go), not to fight for a specific cause, but to protect a vague ideal, because they feel they should, that they’d not be real men if they didn’t.
There’s an extra layer of tragedy to reading the book, because the reader knows, as Brittain didn’t at the time of writing it, that there’s a second world war coming.
We'd spent an awfully long time getting there, with repeated reminders that the 'boys and girls' of her generation had lost so much, her proto-feminisim, painful extracts from her snobbish and overwritten diaries, and many odes to Roland's wonderfulness.I know I'm going to sound like a cold-hearted douche-bag to anyone reading this, but the thing needed a bloody good editor.
She's so busy foreshadowing and explaining and commentating that you lose all sense of these being real people - it feels more like, horror of horror, a bookclub reading.
At the start of World War One, and despite finally getting into Oxford University after an incredible effort to overcome her parents' objections (of course it was accepted that the son would go there - but why would a woman bother?), she turned her back on that to take on arduous, and physically and emotionally demanding nursing work with the VAD (Voluntary Aid Detachment - women who volunteered to nurse the war-wounded) and which required incredible courage and endurance.This is the third WW1 memoir I've read in 2014 (the other two being Storm of Steel by Ernst Jünger, and Goodbye to All That by Robert Graves) and it was both interesting and refreshing to get a female perspective on the conflict.
Surely Vera Brittain wasn't the only girl brought up in a wealthy upper middle class by Victorian parents whose wishes to see their daughters married well clashed with an inquisitive young mind's desire to do something other than fulfill their supporting role of mothers and wives in a male dominated society.
We don't see much of "G.", but that little we see is rather impressive, and one can't discount the importance of his support (and, I suspect, that of several maids!) in helping her carry out her project.

Now that Downton Abbey Season 2 has premiered with so much of revolving around cataclysmic tragedy and change caused by WWI, my thoughts turn back to this book.
Testament of Youth, Vera Brittain's memoir of life, love, and loss during WWI first came to my attention because of Masterpiece Theater which serialized it at least 20 years ago.
In 2010, I read her memoir again and I may reread it a third time as I also experience these events through the fictional characters of Downton Abbey.
If you haven't read it and are a Downton Abbey fan, I highly recommend it and the BBC version if it can still be found.
I understood now that the results of the War would last longer than ourselves; it was obvious, in central Europe, that its consequences were deeper rooted, and farther reaching, than any of us, with our lack of experience, had believed just after it was over.Brittain achieves her goal of showing how profoundly the world changed from her days as a protected teenager in the Pottery district to those of a Red Cross volunteer nurse in the French war hospitals to independence as a woman in the Twenties.
It is interesting that she eventually recognizes another kind of experience in the quote above.
This book changed everything.
I had read everything on WWi. But it was not until this author that the reality of the situation hit me.
Yes I had read about the lost generation and understood the horror.
It is all old photos and patriotic tunes and no one wants to hear about what they had sent their youth off to really do and what it did to them.
The disconnect from the generation that sent them is quite understandable too.
Personal and truthful this book is big but it is worth the read.

Ci sono cose che non capisci mai finché non le leggi come testimonianza diretta. Grazie Vera.
This is her memoir of a young woman maturing in those turbulent and painful years.
This memoir extends several years after the conclusion of the war as she grapples with new understanding of the fragility of life, the freedom for and empowerment of women just being sought, the dawning awareness of the futility and injustice of war and peace treaties.
Although I appreciated this glimpse of an average middle class woman at this time in history, the book was far too long.
There is far too much of the mundane endlessly narrated without any new insights.
One of the most beautiful books I've ever read ..... Stunning
Since then I always knew I would read this book at some point but have never got round to it until this year, to mark the centenary of WW1 I thought I should finally pick it up and devote some precious time to this vivid and traumatic account of a generation whose innocence and joy of life was forever stamped out of them by events between 1914 - 18.
Finally an eminent friend of the family persuaded her father to relent and she was allowed to focus on studying at a time when few women were able to access a university education.When war broke out, Brittain saw both her fiance and her brother (and several close friends) all enlist.
I'm too overwhelmed to write a proper review of this book.
Vera & Roland's letters to each other were especially beautiful & heartwarming.
Their choice of words & its combination of tenderness & sophistication spoke volumes of how beautiful this relationship was & a deep sense of regret of how even greater it would have been if only things went different.
I found myself especially captivated by Roland's style of writing & poetry..his poems were short but deep & I was always left in awe after reading one of them.
I don't read many non-fiction books or biographies/autobiographies so this was something different for me.
Reading this book made me realise how little I actually knew about World War I.
A lot of the places and events mentioned in the book were unfamiliar to me and left me wanting to find out more.As I read about all the pain and sorrow she was forced to endure, I became completely absorbed in Vera Brittain's story.
Testament of Youth was a long, demanding and often heartbreaking book, but I'm glad I read it and I feel I learned a lot from it.
I've long heard of this book and presumed that it was such a classic because Brittain was (unfortunately) in the right position to write such a book ie working in the nursing service during WWI and secondly losing all the major males in her life except her father.
Brittain is an intelligent and gifted writer who manages somehow to write about the most harrowing of ordeals with an acute eye and a sense of balance that is surprising.
I was only going to skim through this book for details such as hospitals and teashops but found that I couldn't put many passages down so ended up reading about 150 pages.
At once witty, insightful, heartbreaking, honest and bittersweet this is by far the best book I have ever read.
Very rarely am I so moved that I have had to physically close the book and walk away to compose myself, if affected me that much on more than one occasion.This is an absolutely essential read and I cannot believe it took a film for me to know it existed.
My copy is destined to be bookcrossed but I have already put a brand new hardcover copy on my Christmas list that I will treasure and read many more times.
From IMDb:A British woman recalls coming of age during World War I - a story of young love, the futility of war, and how to make sense of the darkest times.A movie was made based on this book: Testament of Youth (2014), with Alicia Vikander, Kit Harington, Taron Egerton .
Brittain wrote her Testament almost seventeen years after the war ended, and I think her older, more mature understanding of the world (and perhaps even her ability to see the rumblings of another war on the horizon) serves her memoir well.
Brittain very much condemns the War to End All Wars, and like Owen finds it despicable that men, including her men, fought "Death" for "men" and "flags" rather than "lives." Brittain became a pacifist as a result of her experiences in World War I, which is not terribly surprising.
Brittain struggled for many years (which she documents in her memoir) to find purpose and to understand how her life could have any meaning without Edward, Roland, and other beloved friends she had lost.
I've watched a lot of World War I drama (Upstairs Downstairs is particularly true to the experience of it, I believe), but this is really a different perspective, particularly the post-war section.
I will admit to having skimmed a bit of the politics towards the end, but I found it chilling to read Brittain's account of a visit to post-war Germany, where people were living in abject poverty and preparing for the day when Germany could avenge itself against everybody else.
I know this isn't fiction, so "spoilers" aren't really an issue, but it would have been a different reading experience for me if I hadn't known certain things beforehand.
