https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19310481-ox-team-days-on-the-oregon-trail
The Oregon Trail as seen from the eyes of an optimist. Ezra Meeker talks of his journey across the Oregon Trail with his young family, crossing rivers, encounters with Native Americans, stops a forts and newly formed towns and finding his "plot of land" in Puyallup, Washington. During his life Ezra Meeker realized the importance of marking the Oregon Trail and decided that if it were to be marked, it was up to him to see that it was done. Thus started the retracing the trail that took him to NYC and Washington DC and back.
Ox-Team Days on the Oregon Trail is a fun primary source for the Oregon Trail and the history of the Pacific Northwest in general.Ezra Meeker and traveled the Oregon Trail in 1852, and later made a replica covered wagon and went to the East Coast in 1906.
His Klondike Gold Rush adventure was a failure too.What really annoyed Meeker were the "cheap notoriety seekers" who tried to steal parts from his wagon and carve their initials on it during the return trip.Try this book out if you want to learn about the Old West from the people who experienced it, rather than a secondhand account.
While I only rated it 3 stars, I feel this is an important book. It's the memoir of Ezra Meeker who was a pioneer on the Oregon Trail in 1852, made a life for himself on the coast and again rode the trail in the early 1900s so he could erect monuments along the trail so it wouldn't be lost to future generations. A visionary, and an interesting writer, for a man who only attended 6 months of school.
This was a VERY interesting read.
This man came across on the oregon trail in the 1850's with his wife and baby, his brother and a few friends.
Then he traveled back up the trail to meet his father and more of the family as they came across.
Then when we was over 70 years old he simply bought a wagon and two oxen and took the trail again!
It was amazing how much his idea of his accomplishments became a huge reason to idolize himself.
Good read and def educational!
Fortitude and CourageThe pioneers of the 1800's and earlier faced difficulties and trials, which are beyond our comprehension. This young man and his new wife headed to Oregon from Indiana in search of a place to call home. This narrative details the dangers and hardships they faced on the trail and in locating a tract of land to stake their claim. The young man E. Meeker narrates his adventures over his life time in a very compelling book.Recommended for all who values our America saga
A fascinating look at the pioneers who traversed the nation. I enjoyed the narrative, and paricularly the cheerful outlook of the author. In spite of near insurmountable odds and tremendous toil, he keeps good humor and his tenacity never falters. I highly recommend this as a glimpse into the history of the United States and the people who made sacrifices so that future generations could live in comfort.
This man was an amazing example of how to appreciate and revere our own history and those who have come before. His book is considered a classic in Washington state history classes. Meeker traveled by ox-cart from Iowa to Oregon with his young family in 1852. Later, in 1915, he drove the same route by car. He was instrumental in getting the Oregon Trail recognized and marked as an historical entity. This book is his memoir of life on the trail. It's great stuff.
Quite interestingThe author does a good job of keeping a quick pace that makes it hard to put the book down. The publisher finds it necessary to explain passages that do not need explaining. To bad. Also unnecessary for the publisher to make apologies for anything written by the author.
This author and his wife were amazing. Their trials, tribulations and joy across the Oregon trail are a learning experience for others. Their hard work and stamina are reasons pioneers made the trip and expanded our great country.
Interesting storySimple story-telling but interesting reading. Gave first person voice to historical places I've visited on vacations bringing his story to life.
Bio of one of the first Oregon Trail pioneers. free e-book
I liked it.
Excellent portrait of our early pioneers, their fortitude, their determination and their environment. I would recommend to any history buff.
Good book of coming to the Puyallup Valley in Washington State via the Oregon Trail. Very light on details but very readable.
