https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43915.Magician
(don't like to tell much about the story, better read it yourself if u feel like)there are some other characters like the princes of crydee lyam and arutha and a wonderfully described princess named carline.
its more like a man's world.the main characters and the achievement of their power seemed too hasty and without meeting reader's passion about a hero.It's really bothering that there is very insufficient description about the tsurani people who invaded.Likes now: a new world of fantasy always attracts me :DThe dislikes I mentioned can be assumed to be eliminated soon in the consecutive books.
Great effort.
But I guess it's a mans world.I remember reading it as a kid and it felt great, but now I you clearly see this a s a first book author ever wrote.
It's painfully obvious, from fantasy tropes (city of Valinor, evil orcs, evil dark elves, dragons, magic weapons that give you superpowers), stumbling thru adolescent romance to black and white supporting characters without any depth to them.
Run of the mill western fantasy.If you enjoy reading about other people RPG campaigns - this is a decent but flawed effort, otherwise you could have been reading something else.
Someone recommended me this book and I was kind of afraid of reading it.
The truth is that this book is very well written.Just in the first part we have, maybe, a span of six years.
Some chapters are days, weeks, months and even years after the previous one, which makes the action progress at a really good rhythm.
The action also follows different characters, each one with a well defined personality, and different parts of the world.
What we have here is a fast paced fantasy book, with lots of humor, lots of smart and strong characters that is, indeed, one of the best in it’s kind.https://www.bookdepository.com/Magici...
I remember the first time reading this. The book was passed down to me from a friend of mine. We were both in the Navy and in the process of going through electronics school. In my opinion a classic of the fantasy genre. The only downsize to this book and later the series is that it borrows to much material from other fantasy novels in order to make a lasting tale. Tolkien, Brooks, Donaldson.... their books can be seen through the riftwar saga as well.
Yeah, I read it. But why bother when there is George RR Martin?
Boooooooo.
Great page turning story filled with rich mythical characters. My only complaint is that the book ends at the apex of the story 😡. And now on the the continuation Magician Master 🙄
Classic good/bad tale with orphan protagonist that overcomes odds to become ....
I ready plenty of fantasy books (TLOTR, The Belgariad etc) as a young teenager, and after a recent spate of Game of Thrones thought I'd visit this series that I overlooked a few decades ago.
I probably would have liked it more then, but I see it has so many issues in writing style and story that sometimes I was a bit disappointed.
Overall, it was OK - I will give the 2nd book a try and see if there is some growth in both the characters and author.
I'm coming to the conclusion that these graphic novel adaptations of important fantasy books don't really work for me. The detail of them often gets lost in the art, the stories becoming kind of diluted, and the format doesn't often lend itself to quality storytelling.On the other hand, this made me want to read this series in its original form quite a bit. So it wasn't a complete loss, but given that it took me 10 days to want to finish this says quite a bit...
Needed more magic
I read this series back in High School and enjoyed it then and plan on re reading it at some point ad Feist does an excellent job of character development and story involvement.
So, obvious, I’m completely in my element.Some editions are edited as the story is very long, but I personally enjoyed the long scenes and character development.
If you are a fan of fantasy then ‘Magician’ is in the canon, and is so for a reason.There are a wealth of characters to keep each part of the plot interesting, although I was disappointed by a screaming lack of female characters.
It is a disappointing omission but one which the fantasy genre has started to makes amends on since the 1980s.There is also a lot of fight-scenes.
I mean a LOT of fight-scenes.
When the mood suits him, he can belch out a flame or two, though he seems rarely in the mood.” - Master KulganIssue #2“Master Fannon says a soldier must keep a cool head at all times or he'll lose it.”Issue #3“LEAVE HIM ALONE!
He saved my life!
And I wont have any of you bullying him.”Issue #4“If this man's dying dreams were not the product of fevered imaginings, then I fear his appearance heralds a grave situation.” - Father TullyIssue #5“Magic is a collection of folk arts and skills passed along from master to apprentice since the beginning of time.
I recently came across an old copy of this book at a lending library box.
I picked it up as I'd never read anything by Feist but had heard great things.I was enjoying the book well enough, but I rarely get time to read these days and after 230 pages in, I wasn't floored.
Ultimately, at only like halfway through the book, I decided that my time was best spent reading something I could actually be sucked into and returned the book.As I said, it was interesting enough, and I was liking it, and perhaps if I had given it more time it would have really gotten good as clearly the ratings for this book are much better than I'm giving it.That's just me and just the way it is.
I read this story in paperback form back when it first came out.
My reaction then was an excellent story!
Pug, Tomas and even Roland make an interesting group of friends.
Pug is apprenticed to a magician, Tomas to the guards and Roland is a squire.
Their relationship to begin with is not a smooth one but they do end up being friends.
In the course of learning magic Pug and Tomas come across a ship from another place.
Learn about rifts, magic, and in this case a lot about politics.
Read and find out.
An orphan boy named Pug becomes a master magician’s apprentice.
Due to his natural magic abilities he is drawn into a war between his world and invaders from another world called Tsuranuanni.
Magician: Apprentice by Raymond E.
Feist is a fantasy novel reminding the reader of a world created from Medieval Europe and Samurai Japan mixed in with some otherworldly magic.
in the time of the Samurai.
It's the first part by a trilogy and offers everything a fantasy fan might want from such a story.
The back story is very detailed and the characteres extremely memorable.
It's a fantastic first novel.
Quick note: I am reading the Author's Preferred EditionI had read this quite some time ago in my you
I first read this about 20 years ago, I loved it at the time and read the entire series. I was in the mood for some old school sword and sorcery. I am a huge Joe Abercrombie, Mark Lawrence and Steven Erikson fan; but sometimes you just want to enjoy a tale without having to really think about what you’re reading, and all the plot twists. I have again enjoyed the tale and will read all the others as well.
reread from years ago. still interesting and a nice read. after a great albeit cliche setup, the story skips so many years that you don't really know the protagonists anymore, and the writer just refers to when they were 14 and had more character description to get to connect the reader to the characters when the characters have obviously changed. that did not work so well for me, so that's too bad.
I read the book over a two decades ago and enjoyed picking up this graphic rendition of the first several chapters. I now want to read it again. It was produced by several artists. The only frustration I had was when they changed who was drawing, it took a bit to get used to the differences and re-identify the characters.
I finally finished this, after having it sitting around for years. It's ok. The formulas are pretty formulaic; the characters are so stereotyped it was hard to get past that. There are a couple of interesting angles, especially what is happening with one of the characters, but there was nothing here to make me want to keep reading. I hear there are over twenty novels set in this world.
Well addapded graphic novel, feels that there are some events or pieces mising and we watches glimses of their lives but on the whole a good addaptation of the start of Rayond E Feist Magicans Apprentice. Not read the original book but I like this addaptation.
A brilliant start to this trilogy. I read this years ago and have recently gone back to re-reading them.His later books became very static and sometimes boring to read but this is fresh and vibrant writing and well worth reading.
This book takes my back to my youth. Got me hooked on Midkemia. Does it stand the test of time. Yes but the following books in the series really read well and average. But I really loved the first handful of books.
Amazing book. It is such an original story line -set on another world where they are invaded by another race of intelligent beings, essentially aliens. Raymond E. Feist is so talented and I just couldn't put the book down. I've read it a few times but I could still read it again and love it.
I loved this book. Epic is scale and character.It is a real pleasure to read and the characters unravel with such delight.If you love fantasy, then read this !
A different take on fantasy that is nothing you'd expect.
Such an abundance of clichés...
Jumps around. Kind of different approach to fantasy.
It is one of my favourite books on my shelf! I definitely recommend it. I have read the whole series twice already!
