https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/493159._Til_Death
Detective Steve Carella's baby sister Angela is getting married, but the joyous event may be marred when on the big day.
Carella's not taking any chances, so he plants a few of his fellow 87th Precinct pals as wedding guests to keep an eye on things.
Now they've got to act quickly before Angela ends up a widow on her wedding day.Between Steve's sister asking him for embarrassing advice concerning the wedding night and the elder Mr. Carella's worries over how he's going to pay for the damned reception, there are a lot of laughs in this one.
This is another early installment in the 87th Precinct series and the second in a row in which the action all occurs over the course of a single day.Steve Carella's little sister, Angela, is getting married in a big outdoor wedding in the backyard of the Carella family home.
Steve's day begins early with a call from the bridegroom, Tommy Giordano.
And as the afternoon wears on, there's the very real chance that Tommy and Angela's marriage might not even last long enough for the honeymoon to begin.
"Δώρο από το δολοφόνο", εκδόσεις Bell.Χρονολογικά είναι το ένατο βιβλίο της πολύ ωραίας σειράς του 87ου Αστυνομικού Τμήματος, όγδοο που διαβάζω εγώ.
Ποιος όμως θέλει το κακό του; Μήπως ένας συμπολεμιστής του από τον πόλεμο της Κορέας, που του κρατάει ακόμα μανιάτικο για ένα "λάθος" του; Μήπως ο κολλητός του φίλος, με τον οποίο είχαν συντάξει...
αμοιβαίες διαθήκες; Μήπως κάποιος πρώην γκόμενος της μέλλουσας συζύγου του; Όπως και να'χει, ο Καρέλα θα πρέπει να έχει το νου του τόσο στον γάμο, όσο και στο γαμήλιο γλέντι...Μου άρεσε πολύ η όλη ιστορία, το μεγαλύτερο μέρος της οποίας διαδραματίστηκε κατά την διάρκεια ενός γαμήλιου γλεντιού.
The plot is slight of stature with Steve Carella responding to an unsubstantiated threat to his soon to be brother-in-law's life on his wedding day.
He populates every blind corner and opportunity with the threat of impending death, has suspects crawling from every shadow and he has a ball doing it.
Cotton Hawes was one such directive when his publishers deemed Carella too old and too married to persistently carry off the hero's role.
Subsequently McBain proceeded to create a young hero, Cotton Hawes, that he would delight in sending up and humiliating at every opportunity.
As a newbie to McBain, I found out quickly not all are equal. I won't give up but will screen more carefully. This featured wedding of Carella's daughter with many absurd attempts on the life of her bridegroom.
Steve Carella's sister is being married and the groom is worried about a threat with a Korean War implication. Shooting, blonde bombshells, spiders, poison and policemen with guns. What more can you want from a crime novel? Detectives follow their noses and catch their man or woman. All this with a happy ending.Fast pace, no loose ends, very little complication. Easy reading.
But if everyone thought that way, this novel would never have been written.
This is book #9 in the 87th Precinct series and (by far) the one with the most unbelievable plot.
But given the moronic decisions, lack of communication and basic ineptitude, I felt like I was reading an unfunny novelization of a Keystone Kops short film.All this to say that the only reason to read this book is because, like me, you're reading through the entire series of 50+ books.
Otherwise, if you are just looking to sample an 87th Precinct story at random, this is NOT the book to read.
Similar to the last book, this one follows the events of just one day. Steve Carrela's sister is getting married and the groom receives a threatening note. He pulls in a couple of off duty members of the 87th squad room to attend the wedding and keep an eye on things.This is also a very linear story, no secondary cases being investigated at the same time although this one has a couple of minor twistsNot bad and as with most of the others it would make a good 1 hour TV episode.
Steve Carella's little sister (Angela) is getting married to Tommy, who receives a death threat, and Steve dragoons his fellow detectives to attend the wedding to prevent a murder; however, there is substantial mayhem, one death, as the squad closes in on the perp and saves the day.
the story of murder threats on the day of the wedding of Carella's sister, including two red herrings along the way - the action all takes place in 14 hours on one day - compact and clever story
Another great entry in this series.
Steve Carella's daughter is getting married and if the groom's suspicions are correct, death might do them part on their wedding day.
As with the previous entry in this series, all of the action takes place in a single day.
These books were definitely published in a different era though; let's just say that the concerns which caused the bride and groom to have the jitters on the morning of their union are definitely not the fears of most couples today, (smile.) Not only was this a well thought out little mystery, many parts of it were laugh out loud funny.
I love the 87th Precinct series. In this go around (#9 in the series), Carella's wife is at the end of their first pregnancy and Carella's sister is getting married. The future bridegroom receives a small box at his front door the morning of the wedding. Inside is a black widow spider. Carella and the other detectives have to determine if this is a real threat or just a poor joke, leading to a busty blonde, a crazed ex boyfriend, and someone intent on murder.
This short and punchy crime novel is the first I've read from McBain. An interesting cast of characters sharply drawn, a somewhat tenuous plot albeit with logic in both the telling and the sleuthing, and a page turner towards the end. It's instantly forgettable, of course, but the journey was worth the ride.
Not so suspensefulI'll say this, it certainly was written by McBain/Hunter. That said, the conclusion was broadcast early on if you're paying attention. Not a bad book, but not as suspenseful as others.
Still a good McBain read but parts of the plot did tax my belief suspension just a tad. No spoilers but it just felt like stretching for ideas at times. Still happy with the writing and the series and it was a quick enjoyable read but not one of the better entries in the series for me.
Carroll's sister is getting married. The groom 're dives a tarantula in a box and calls Carella. Carmella rounds up three of his cop colleagues to come to the wedding. They find a man from the army said he would kill him was just 're l eased from prison and is in NY.
3.5
Yet another solid McBain novel. The plot of this one flies. Tense, fun, occasionally silly, but an enjoyable read. What more need be said?
Still greatI have listened to all up to this one. And I am still loving them. I'm ready for the next one!
finished this one last night. good read. i liked it. also has an intro from mcbain. (kindle)
Great. Fast paced, Mcbain using his trick of having no space between scenes. Humour, violence, mystery- all,that is needed for a good read.
Una fresca lettura estiva di un maestro del giallo. L'87° distretto e i suoi componenti al meglio della forma.
An enjoyable entry in the series, nothing too special, Meyer gets some page time and Hawes gets beaten up a couple of times, once by a 'broad', which is nice.
Add Hawes' date (Christina, the book store owner he questioned back in Lady Killer) and a very expecting Teddy to the multiple suspects and murder attempts flooding the scene, and the story begins to feel as crowded and hectic as an actual wedding party.The most interesting aspect of this story, however, might be the femme fatale Oona, who proves to be one of the more brutal and vicious characters to grace the pages of the 87th.
Tommy was "it" and Steve had only a few precious hours to find a killer and prevent Tommy from being tagged out for good.One known enemy was army associate grom the Korean war, who blamed Tommy for the death of his friend by a sniper.
They had tried a shooting earlier at a flat across from the photographers but missed.Ex boyfriend of Angela, Ben through jealousy starts the wedding day by sending Tommy an anonymous note and widow spider that sets the panic for Tommy and then lets Steve know about the threat.
I don't see a listing for a Kindle version of this novel, so I'll go with this one.Ed McBain set the standard for police procedurals back in the 1950s with his first 87th Precinct novel and every author that followed in his footsteps either measures up or doesn’t.This book, first published 35 years ago, is as fresh today as it was then.
– but the story grabs you and holds you as does every book in the series.Many police procedural authors focus on just one or two cops in a precinct.
Another fine edition in the 87th Precinct series.Carella's sister is getting married.
The day of the wedding the groom gets a threatening note and a black widow spider.
The best man and the groom have wills leaving everything to the other if one dies first.
That would change after the wedding.
The sister's ex-boy friend is a bit loony and can't seem to accept that she's about to get married.
A man that assaulted the groom and spent a year in prison has vowed revenge.Carella has his two friends watching the crowd.
Steve Carella's sister is getting married and his future brother-in-law received an anonymous threat that he fears dates back to his time fighting in Korea.
Carella enlists some of his detective buddies to spend their days off to ascertain whether the threats are real or imagined.
There are at least 3 people with motive and opportunity to hurt the brother-in-law and it all feels more contrived than usual.
I can't remember if this is the 9th or 10th book and I'm surprised the entire detective squad hasn't resigned due to the unending violence directed toward them.
McBain is always entertaining.
Sparse writing rules, and authors should take note.
A whole storyline based on Carella's sister getting married actually works.
It's hard to believe that we as a people were ever this naive and innocent about sex and marriage.
The story didn't have as much bite as McBain's usual until the lady in the red skirt arrives.
The battle between her and Cotton was masterful.
It was right out of a pulp novel.
McBain describes her as a handful, an armful, an eyeful.
When she kicks Cotton's ass, it feels right somehow.
I was a bit concerned at the start of this, that including members of Steve Carella’s family in the story was just reaching for a way to bring emotions into it.
But actually, it did work and the story made sense.
It was nice, that some of the other cops sacrificed their day off to come in and help him out, and it was good to see how the relationships grew and changed across the course of the wedding.The I liked that there were several potential suspects and although not quite a whodunit, the story did guide you towards and away from characters as and when required.
