https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/468872.Fat_Is_a_Feminist_Issue
I have tried reading this several times.
I get that it was "groundbreaking", but when I read it all I hear is the same old fat-hatred/fat-blaming.
"But if you REALLY just love your self and let go of your NEED to be fat, then you will magically become thin!
It just tells you that everyone needs to WANT to be thin--to REALLY REALLY want it, and then the magical santa elf of I-love-myself-and-don't-want-to-be-fat will make it so!
I also say that I don't need to waste my time and energy on trying to read this anymore.
I expected FIFI to be largely academic discourse on fat and feminism, and was surprised by how much it was an overeating self-help book.
I wasn't sure I fully appreciated that.Don't get me wrong, as an overeater I think much of the analysis of overeating rings utterly true with my experience, and obviously in her long history of psychotherapy practice Susie Orbach already knows this.
But I did have a problem with some of the approach and terminology.Particularly in the first book I found myself thinking there was plenty of encouragement to set up self-help groups, but little guidance.
Much of the blame for this behavior is put on the shoulders of mothers who train us, their daughters, to expect less caring, less love, less support, less everything because it is "the lot of a woman."Why I believe it's irrelevant to my generation?
Дуже класна книжка, яка проблеми з переїданням (та взагалі з будь-якими порушеннями харчування) розглядає з точки зору психоаналізу з феміністичним нахилом.
Якщо ви їсте за компанію, коли не хочете їсти, коли ви їсте від розпачу, суму, нервів, то ця книжка саме про це!
В ній розписують глибинні проблеми, конфлікти, які примушують нас їсти імпульсивно, а потім описується, як ці проблеми можна вирішити.
Все це робиться на прикладі реальних жінок, які самі проходили психоаналіз в групах жінок, організрваних авторкою, щоб вирішити проблеми з порушеннями харчування.
Дуже класна книжка, один словом.
I picked this up thinking that this would look at the relationships between food and dieting and the use of these to control women's bodies and lives, a concept that has been touched upon in some of the other literature I've read.
This does start out looking at this but then it shifts focus to the reasons behind compulsive eating and how to break these habits.
The advice and exercises are interesting but I did feel that there was a lot of focus on being slim and some quite substantial assumptions that in controlling compulsive eating everyone can be slim.
This book was one of the first to talk about women's relationship with fat.
There are some parts that are absolutely spot-on with regards to women's relationship with food, dieting, their own bodies and the bodies of other people.
I also disagree with the assumption from the author that all women start out thin and then became fat.
Ultimately I gave two stars because, although the book encourages women to practise self-compassion and understand the roots of their compulsive behaviour without judgement, the outcome of overcoming compulsive eating for every case that is presented is *always* weight-loss.
This is a hard book to rate because it's so specific to opening a support group and i have no interest in that. I did enjoy the analytical aspect of the first half of the book but yeah..i was definitely the wrong audience for a lot of it
It is surprising, but Orbach was the first to bring a psychoanalytic view of the body to mainstream American culture through this book.
In psychoanalytic terms, Orbach's central claim in this book is that obesity and dieting (and compulsive eating & anorectia) are symptoms of a mismatch between one's "true" self and one's "false" self.
I bring up the language of "true" and "false" self because I think, even though she doesn't explicitly pay homage, Orbach's theory and method both must be significantly influenced by Winnicott's in "Ego Distortion in Terms of the True and False Self" (From The Maturational Processes and the Facilitating Environment).
Some things in this book went over my head (even if I tried to catch them :D) What I mean is that some things in FIFI were really out of date (probably because this was written in 70s...) and also I think some philosophies were flawed.
this book makes A LOT of good points & I think this is good read for overweight or self-starving women and I think this book also has a sense of history to it.
Also, it shows how scary the dieting industry was/is (as is I guess food industry and all the other big industries)
It is outdated and will probably just make you feel worse about yourself and your body.I borrowed this book without noticing the undertitle until I added it on GR.
Furthermore, the book does stipulate that every woman wants to and can be thin as if it is a natural tabula rasa state, but that we need to keep unhealthy food at home to in a way challenge ourselves to not eat it.There are way more accurate and body positive books out there who don’t just dismiss antianxiety and antidepressants ar drugging of women and hiding the symptoms.
I really struggled with this book.
I've read a few other really good books that refer to it in 'glowing terms' so I really wanted to read it and expected it to totally change how I think!
Needless to say this wasn't the case.
In some ways I think it is just out of date (it was written in the 70s) so a lot of it I just couldn't relate to at all.
Sadly, I just overeat and there wasn't much in the book to deal with that (unless you bought into her theories).
This was okay, but it wasn't quite what I thought it might be. There were some considerations on how fat is viewed in society and how we should see this as a feminist issue, but mostly I found this to be a self help diet book to cure binge eating. Plus I thought it was quite sexist, which I was not prepared for, though I guess things have moved on somewhat since the 1970s.
This book will piss you off, and then it will set you free.
Very interesting. I felt like 2/3 of it didnt apply to me and you could tell it was written in the 70s. But every once and a while a passage would really resonate with me and make a lot of sense and be enlightening and I think the techniques can be helpful. I wish I could meet with Susie and talk to her about this, or I wish that she would make another updated version for the modern era.
it's amazing to think this book was originally published 40 years ago, when the conversation on body variance and body positivity was so, so far from non-existent.
considering this, FIFI is a remarkable piece for its time.
in addition, gender in this book reflects a binary way of thinking, and considering how much the concept of gender has changed since its first publication, it would have been helpful to consider how eating impacts those who identify as non-binary, trans, GNC.
While I understand that this was revolutionary when first published, I don't think it has quite held onto that. The ideas are key and clearly laid out - I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in/struggling with body image and food. But Orbach's main message is slightly over-simplified - I think sometimes she overvalues the role of 'fat' rather than the role of food itself, and as she herself admits, all the women she worked with were white.
This book was helpful for me since I've been living 14 years with an eating disorder. The exercices are great and supported me to go deeper in my personal issues. I recommend to anyone struggling, battling with eating disorder and especially binge-eating or what is called hyperphagia. You will find yourself in the testimonials.
It brings a lot of examples why fat truly is a feminist issue because our overeating has a lot to do with how we are raised, what is expected from us, and from society's pressure for one kind of body to be ideal and visible in public spaces.This book helped me a lot, I had quite a few illuminating moments when I was reading stories of some women, and Orbach explanations and deep dive into why this issue, if not dealt with, results in overeating as a dealing mechanism.
You are fat because you compulsively over eat (don't get me wrong, some of the over-eating talk did ring true, I know all too well that eating when I'm not hungry is a massive habit of mine).I finally put it down when I realised that the second book was all about overcoming compulsive overeating - and when the author described women over 250lbs as "extremely large".
I knew I was big but to be labelled "extremely large" was embarrassing and made me feel like it was my fault because I secretly wanted to be fat.
It is only a terrible term if you believe all the anti-feminist and status quo supporting media and propaganda and so on, surely?) But I was surprised in reading this book how much of it really hit home with me, but how little any of it had to do with my gender or with feminism!Not all the possible reasons for staying overweight had to do with feminism, as the title of this book may suggest.
Some of the parts which did have to do with gender, such as mother-daughter competitiveness issues, I didn't relate to at all, possibly because they the book is very dated.
Confronting those issues of power and politics is exactly what this book does in exploring issues of body image, eating disorders, perceptions of desirability and sexuality, and seeing many of the ways women respond, eat, and see themselves as responses to and ways to cope with those broad social divisions of power derived from sex and gender.I re-read the book recently while developing a brief paper about chosing to not exercise as a rational choice given the social and cultural politics of late capitalism.
I think most people would benefit from the ideas in this book.
I can't think of many girls/women I know who haven't felt 'fat' at some point in their lives and most people seem to have a strange love/hate relationship with food.
But I do think her instructions for going from disordered eating to gaining a better relationship with food is so so important.
EAT ONLY WHEN YOU ARE HUNGRY.
This is far more useful than any diet book, it's about repairing our relationship with food and destroying the idea of good and bad food.
This book still held some revelations despite the fact that it was written before I was born. It goes well with the book "The Beauty Myth" which is more of a cultural expose while this book is more of a self help guide. However there is precious little discussion of how women today are held captive by the societal concepts of beauty so it's nice to have multiple books available on the subject. I suggest this book to any person who has ever had an issue with food and control, basically everybody.
While some situations regarding how women are treated have indeed changed between the original publication date of the book, FIFI II and the various editions, this book still had some amazing insights for me. I've always considered myself a feminist, and I've read quite a lot about how we relate to food as human beings and women, and still this book had a number of intriguing new ideas for me to mull over, and a few new ways to look at things. I really enjoyed the book.
This book has been a great help to me over the years when fight my weight-both when it's been "too high" and, though never in my own self-image, dangerously low. More than any other book I can think of, it has helped put my weight into a different and far more helpful context.Recommend: for all women with body-image problems.
This book contributed to me learning to care about myself despite a lifelong struggle to weigh less. It particularly examines the symbolic nature of fat, eating, size, and society's norms for women and men. Several of us formed a group to study this book, and it was one of the most supportive and educational endeavors I have ever experienced.
I only read the parts that intrigued me or were new to me.
Good ol' feminism.
Very outdated and the general thesis of the book is troubling.
Nunca había pensado sobre ello, pero si es cierto que ciertos valores positivos pueden asociarse inconscientemente, por ejemplo, la madre rellenita y llena de amor.Sin embargo, sí me parece que Orbach, por su influencia psicoanalista, todavía más enfatizada por el éxito que esta corriente tenía en los 70 y los 80, lleva a un extremo eso de buscar significados a la gordura.
En la misma línea, culpabilizar a las madres por esa situación me parece ser un tanto simplista, así como asociar todo problema con la comida a algún desfase en la relación madre-hija.Otro elemento en el que se puede notar los años de la obra es que me parece que presenta unos ejemplos de mujer bastante reductivos.
