https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188572.The_Complete_Sherlock_Holmes_Vol_1
A few of the things I learned: Once you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truthNever theorize before you have all the evidence. It biases the judgment.Also, I now sometimes try to analyze people based on their shoes and pants when sitting on the subway. I have yet to ask anyone if I was accurate about my predictions.
Time does not change great literature This was completely entertaining and no matter how old you are it's still great to read over the ones you enjoyed the first time. Several I had not remembered reading. I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Sherl...
My copy of this book is a wreck, I have read it so often. My dad gave it to me, I can't remember if it was a birthday or Christmas gift, but regardless it's one of the best books I've ever been given. You just have to read a couple of pages and you fall right into Holmes and Watson's world; it's wonderful.
Suffice to say I am glad I finally came to my senses.It is all here, every Sherlock Holmes story ever penned by Arthur Conan Doyle.
That would be tedious for me as well as you.There is no doubt that my hands down favourite of the entire collection was The Hound of the Baskervilles, but make no mistake I loved it all.According to Goodreads I started reading this collection on June 23 of this year and I am just now able to close off my review.
With the exception of the novels which I read straight through once I had started them, the balance of the case files I read in between other books.
সকুলের শেষে এসএসসির পর পুরো "শারলক হোমস অমনিবাস" টানা পড়ে শেষ করেছিলাম, সমভবত একবসাতেই । কলকাতার তুলি-কলম পরকাশনীর পরকাশিত মণীনদর দততের দুরদানত অসাধারণ পূরনাঙগ অনুবাদ । গভীর মুগধতায় এক বিসময়কর ঘোরের মাঝে ডুবে ছিলাম কয়েকটা দিন । ইতোপূরবে শারলক হোমস কে, কি, কেন এসব সমপরকে তখন আবছা আবছা ধারণা বৈ আর কিছুই জানা ছিল না । এখনকার অতি বিচকষণ ও অভিজঞ পাঠকদের মত আগেভাগেই সব জেনে যাবার কোন সুযোগ ছিল না, একেবারে আনকোরা চোখে নতুন এক জগত আবিষকারের অনাবিল নিখাঁদ আননদের সাথে পরতিটি গলপ পরতিটি পৃষঠা উপভোগ করেছিলা
স্কুলের শেষে এসএসসির পর পুরো "শার্লক হোমস অমনিবাস" টানা পড়ে শেষ করেছিলাম, সম্ভবত একবসাতেই । কলকাতার তুলি-কলম প্রকাশনীর প্রকাশিত মণীন্দ্র দত্তের দুর্দান্ত অসাধারণ পূর্নাঙ্গ অনুবাদ । গভীর মুগ্ধতায় এক বিস্ময়কর ঘোরের মাঝে ডুবে ছিলাম কয়েকটা দিন । ইতোপূর্বে শার্লক হোমস কে, কি, কেন এসব সম্পর্কে তখন আবছা আবছা ধারণা বৈ আর কিছুই জানা ছিল না । এখনকার অতি বিচক্ষণ ও অভিজ্ঞ পাঠকদের মত আগেভাগেই সব জেনে যাবার কোন সুযোগ ছিল না, একেবারে আনকোরা চোখে নতুন এক জগত আবিষ্কারের অনাবিল নিখাঁদ আনন্দের সাথে প্রতিটি গল্প প্রতিটি পৃষ্ঠা উপভোগ করেছিলাম ।প্রথম উপন্যাস 'আ স্টাডি ইন স্কারলেট'-এ প্রথমবারের মত হোমসের ক্ষুরধার বুদ্ধিদীপ্তির চমকপ্রদ প্রমাণ, মহাজটিল রহস্যকাহিনীর ভেতরেই অপ্রত্যাশিতভাবে হৃদয়ভাঙ্গা এক বিয়োগান্তক প্রেমের গল্প, নিদারুণ কঠিন প্রতিশোধপরায়ণতা । আমি বলা যায় ডয়েলের কল্পনাশক্তির এক ঘুষিতেই কুপোকাত !
Most of the stories are similar to one another, but it was nice to read about old England. In my opinion the novels are better than the shorts since Doyle had the opportunity to expand the story into other areas which gave depth and breadth to the stories.
*Nota bene: Долуописаната сцена не е част от никоя от историите на сър Артър Конан Дойл. Всяка прилика с фикционални лица и събития обаче е напълно умишлена. Квартирата на Шерлок Холмс и д-р Джон Уотсън на ул. „Бейкър“ 221Б, Лондон. Холмс е погълнат от химичен експеримент, а Уотсън седи в кресло пред камината, взира се в пламъците и от време на време се оглежда неспокойно. - Уотсън, убеден съм, че нервната Ви превъзбуда е напълно необоснована. Тихото шумолене, което така често прекъсва хода на м
Като се замисля може да бъде и някой слабоумен клетник със странни гастрономически навици… Но по-добре е да се придържаме към първото ми предположение.- Но откъде разбрахте, че става въпрос за дребна брюнетка, Холмс?!- Както и сам знаете, драги ми Уотсън, представителките на прекрасния пол, които са наясно със своята… хм, физическа и метафорична висота в обществото, ако мога така да се изразя, често предпочитат по-светски занимания от книгите за двамата старомодни джентълмени.
Ad esempio, potrei dire di come abbia cominciato con "Uno studio in rosso" che avevo ancora una decina d'anni e come, nel corso del tempo, quei racconti e quei libri mi abbiano portato ad appassionarmi sempre più alla letteratura gialla.
Potrei dire di come, a Londra, mi sono fermata in contemplazione davanti alla statua di Sherlock Holmes nella famosa Baker Street, pensando al povero Watson, narratore, sempre in secondo piano, di gran parte delle storie di Holmes.Con un certo distacco, datomi anche dalle tante letture accumulate sulle mie spalle, potrei dire che non tutti i racconti sono usciti "con il buco" e che qualche storia è più appassionante e intricata di altre.
4 novels:'A Study in Scarlet''The Sign of the Four''The Hound of the Baskervilles''The Valley of Fear'5 books of 56 short stories:'The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes':'A Scandal in Bohenia''The Red-Headed League''A Case of Identity''The Boscombe Valley Mystery''The Five Orange Pips''The Man with the Twisted Lip''The Blue Carbunde' 'The Speckled Band''The Engineer's Thumb''The Noble Bachelor''The Beryl Coronet''The Copper Beeches''The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes':'Silver Blaze''The Yellow Face''The Stockbroker's Clerk''The Gloria Scott''The Reigate Squires''The Crooked Man''The Resident Patient''The Greek Interpreter''The Naval Treaty''The Final Problem''The Return of Sherlock Holmes':'The Empty House''The Norwood Builder''The Dancing Men''The Solitary Cyclist''The Priory School''Black Peter''Charles Augustus Milverton''The Six Napoleons''The Three Students''The Golden Pince-Nez''The Missing Three-Quarter''The Abbey Grange''The Second Stain''His Last Bow':'Wisteria Lodge''The Cardboard Box''The Red Circle''The Bruce-Partington Plans''The Dying Detective''The Disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax''The Devil's Foot''His Last Bow''The Casebook of Sherlock Holmes':'The Mazarin Stone''The Problem of Thor Bridge''The Creeping Man''The Sussex Vampire''The Three Garridebs''The Illustrious Client''The Three Gables''The Blanched Soldier''The Lion Mane''The Retired Colourman''The Veiled Lodger''Shoscombe Old Place'31st August-1st September 2015'A Study in Scarlet'I love this story.
For the Celebrity Death Match Review Tournament, Le Petit Prince (14) versus The Complete Sherlock Holmes (19)It was some time during the summer of 19__ that I received an urgent telegram from Holmes.
And, true to his word, he said no more until we were comfortably ensconced in the First Class carriage of the Dover Express."Now, Watson," said Holmes, after he had carefully packed and lit his pipe, "I wonder if you have heard of a young Frenchman called Saint-E_____.
An author and aviator."The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
So, I'm now done with reading this whole 2-volume 1,796-page Sherlock Holmes canon.
Not only that, because Holmes has that keen observation, he uses those things that he sees to link them to his hypotheses and when he applies his knowledge in forensics (having a background on medicine), to the things he observes, it results to his power of deduction.2.
I am still to see any Sherlock Holmes television episodes or movies but this one makes the story unbelievable for a middle age man like me but interesting enough to engage me while reading.
This fantasy element in the story is entertaining in my mind but it is the least in terms of the practical application of what I learned from Sherlock Holmes.
I was so sad when I finished this book. Nothing new to read ever again about Sherlock Holmes ... hmmmm *sigh*
I don't know if anyone else does this, but in times of stress or when I have exceptional trouble falling asleep, I find myself re-reading a favorite book.
One of these used to be my complete Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series but alas, it *is* in fact possible to read those books too many times.
Lately this book has been the Complete Sherlock Holmes.What amazes me the most about these stories is that, despite having read through the entire collection a number of times, I seem to find something new each time I read it.
"You will understand directly."Two days later, I came down to breakfast to discover my dear friend, Sherlock Holmes, dressed as a goldfish."Ah Watson," he greeted me.
"You remember the matter we spoke of the other day?""I do, Holmes, I do!""Well, it is even darker and more disturbing than even I at first realised."The next day, I came down to breakfast to discover my friend lying disconsolately among the bacon."Are you quite well, Holmes?" I enquired."I have solved the case, Watson." He sat up, brushing a fried egg from the lapel of his dressing gown.
A Study in Scarlet: 4 starsThe Sign of the Four: 4.5 starsThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes:-A Scand
Phew… I finished this whole thing in twelve days (except for The Hound of the Baskervilles which I had read before).
The focus, precision and energy of the stories kept me alert throughout and I never tired.
As soon as I finished a story I was immediately hungry for more.
It made me aware of the structure of the stories, about similarities and patterns, and also about the relation between the original stories and the multitude of adaptations out there.
Inevitably you come to these stories with a lot of preconceptions.
What struck me the most was how close many of the adaptations are to the original stories.
This book is nothing short of brilliant.Arthur Conan Doyle is a master writer; there never was a dull moment in every story, and there are only a handful of characters that I would love as dearly as I love Sherlock and Watson.
I own a Sherlock Holmes sweatshirt at this very time.I also liked Arthur & George by Julian Barnes, which was about Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.Added after I saw one of my friends was going to read Sherlock Holmes.I see Goodreads is showing an ISBN for this edition.
It must have been added later.Aug. 14, 2014 update: There had been ongoing problems dealing with the Conan Doyle estate, now resolved.
Who knew?More info at http://free-sherlock.com/ Aug. 20, 2014 update: In reading Steven Pinker about the romanticized and favorable views of war that prevailed for most of history, I discovered that even the fictional Sherlock Holmes was part of the culturally accepted insanity of the WWI era re war's being necessary and desirable.
What first got me hooked on reading. [That sounds corny, like 'Hooked on Phonics' or something...]Either way, I found a seriously abridged and illustrated version of a few stories when I was in 3rd grade. And I've never looked back. Hands down my favorite reads ever.
Dr. John Watson is a man who served his country in war, was wounded, became a physician good enough to build a booming practice … but when he is around Sherlock Holmes he is like a bullied child anxious not to be left out.
But he obviously preens himself over the praise, and it sure felt like when Watson gave up the writing Holmes was a little put out.
Oh, and then of course after years of Watson saying "Well, fine, write 'em yourself", Holmes finally does – and spends a good deal of time saying how Watson would have done it better.
Che cosa posso dire di un'opera simile? Immensa, su ogni fronte.Va a sir Arthur Conan Doyle - oramai consacrato tra i più grandi scrittori gialli di sempre - il merito di aver dato vita ad un personaggio dalle mille ed eclettiche sfaccettature, capace di esercitare la sublime, sottile, arte della deduzione: l'eccentrico Sherlock Holmes.Dal libro:  Lei ha portato l'arte dell'indagine ad essere tanto più vicina possibile a una scienza esatta quanto mai potrà esserlo in questo mondo.
IT TOOK ME ABOUT 8 1/2 MONTHS OF SLAVING AWAY AND I AM SO HAPPY THAT I AM FREED OF THIS BURDEN.
YOU CAN'T IMAGINE HOW FRUSTRATED I WAS WITH MY SLOW PROGRESS, BUT I JUST DECIDED TO PUSH THROUGH AND FINISHED IT ONCE AND FOR ALL.
So I am giving it an overall rating of 3 stars (Plus it took me so long to read.) By the second volume I really couldn't care less, which discouraged me from reading anymore.
I'm still so mad at how long this took me to read!!!!
I don't do that, I literally don't read books over the span of more than 3 months.
He was in front of the great SH!) And so in front of him actually is Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel Felstein, and hereditary King of Bohemia.
Your Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person, wrote her some compromising letters, and is now desirous of getting those letters back.”“Precisely so.
But how—”“Was there a secret marriage?”“None.”“No legal papers or certificates?”“None.”“Then I fail to follow your Majesty.
Your Majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion.”It goes on and ends with a promise that SH will have some good news the next day.
The Complete Sherlock Holmes...I happened to finish Dan Simmons's The Fifth Heart recently, and was a little put out about how he treated Sherlock in some spots.
Having now finished the complete stories and novels - okay, yeah.
Lots of inconsistencies, many stories a long stone's throw from fair, repetitive plotlines, and those stupid stories that are Sherlock intro, Sherlock epilogue...and a mass of adventure from America that I couldn't care less about.
Sherlock is a heartless bastard, all right, maybe not as catastrophically hopeless as a human being as in The Fifth Heart, but definitely not a nice guy.
Lots of brilliance here, of course - but lots of stories that don't ring even remotely true.
Doyle actually went to the trouble of thinking up brilliant things for Holmes to do instead of just making everyone else in the stories stupid as a lot of writers do.The second is the way Doyle handled Holmes and Watson's relationship.
Something else that I have come to detest in fiction is the typical friendship in which the characters are too often making a huge sacrifice for one another and are too frequently having big emotional scenes together.
But Doyle manages to convince the reader that Holmes and Watson are close friends without any of the sacrifices or emotional scenes.
I've decided that this mammoth collection of stories will be a work in progress project for me.
It'll probably take me a lifetime between reading other books, but the target is set!
Well, (a) you can have too much of a good thing and (b) I don't want to run the risk of the stories all rolling into one, becoming samey and then boredom setting in and the book landing on my "given-up" shelf.
So it doesn't make sense for me to read it like one complete book either.
Certainly don't write 'em like that anymore!
I often struggle to determine how many stars to give many books, especially modern ones which often come highly touted.
But there is no struggle here.
These stories are superior to any modern stories I have read this year.
For those who may not know this Doyle was a wonderful author of other books equal to his Sherlock Holmes books.
For family reading do not miss The White Company.
For manliness and chivalry do not miss Sir Gerard and Sir Nigel.
This audio book was the perfect running companion.
I looked forward to my runs with Sherlock very much over the last few months.
In which we learn that Sherlock Holmes turns to a seven percent solution of cocaine for mental stimulation in the absence of a case on which to work, much to the chagrin of Dr. Watson. Arthur Conan Doyle weaves a story around the Sepoy Mutiny and a lost Indian treasure,in a plot reminiscent of Wilkie Collins' "The Moonstone". Sherlock Holmes reveals that he is a master of disguise and we learn more of the workings of the Baker Street Irregulars. This second appearance of Holmes and Watson is more action driven than "A Study in Scarlet". A very entertaining read.
These novels and short stories are a blast to read when you want to get a taste of the original crime thriller stuff.
It's cool to know that Doyle kind of started the detective crime mystery genre.
Also, while House has his vicadin, Holmes has his occasional shot of cocaine!I also love the time period these stories take place.
This time period also corresponds with an interesting concept of nihilism which proposes the question if men with superhuman abilities have the right to live above the moral code.Though these stories are basically identical in plot, I am entertained as much as when I first read Hound of the Baskervilles.
These stories got me through many mornings in college. Read on my phone while waiting in lines or on the bus.
