https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31434269-here-i-am
......If you already know you can't stand reading authors such as Jonathan Franzen, Philip Roth, or Shalom Auslander...then you might not like this book either.
Good reasons 'to' read this novel:  ......You love Philip Roth, Jonathan Franzen, and Shalom Auslander ......You are a fan of painfully hilarious profound observations.
You know your partner will get a thrill out of the book, too ( half the fun is reading parts together)...even if "shaking your head"...."ITS SO WRONG", Paul says...
( you can 'feel' the downhill slide coming) Jacob and Julie are the parents of three boys: Sam, Max, and Benji.
And here’s Jonathan Safran Foer with his five minute guitar solo on the subject of a failing marriage.I knew that this novel takes some weird left-turns into geopolitics (the destruction by earthquake of the state of Israel) and I was keen to get to that bit but finally I COULDN’T TAKE IT ANYMORE, the whip-smart ultra-unrealistic sitcomlike relentless dialogue, most of this novel is dialogue, was like the death from a thousand cutting remarks, the floor was awash with my unlaughed laughter.
The fictitious war in the Middle East and subsequent investigations into religious/national identity always felt like a separate block of marble.
This novel though provides the children with a very grown up world without much sentimentality.
The children are wiser and far more worthy of respect than the adults throughout this novel.
At first appearing more like something happening in Other Life, the virtual world where the oldest son spends much of his time.
The last fifty pages are devoted to Jacob, the second weakest character in the novel, and felt very sketchy.
My problem was this feels more like an early novel by Philip Roth or maybe one by Howard Jacobson, what with frequent masturbation and sex talk on the one hand and constant quarrelling about what Jewishness means on the other.The novel is based around speeches: Sam’s Torah commentary for his bar mitzvah, whence comes the title phrase uttered by Abraham; Deborah’s speech at Jacob and Julia’s wedding (probably the best part of the entire book); oration from the U.S. president, the Israeli prime minister, the Ayatollah; and so on.
But several times during my reading of this novel I almost teared up because it affected me emotionally in a way that no other book has for a long time.
"Here I Am" combines a frustrating and hard every-day family life with religion.
One of the things that won my heart over in this novel - besides from the adorable children and pet - was Jacob's digressions.
I am very impressed by this unique novel, and I'm convinved I have to read more by this author who, according to this book, has a lot of impressive thoughts, things and stories to offer.
Let me be clear, I only award one star to books I fail to finish. I failed to finish this book. In fact, I’d barely started it – I was probably no more than an hour into this chunky seventeen-hour audio version. And I don’t think I’ve ever given up any book that early.The problems for me were:1. I didn’t understand much of it2. I didn’t like the bits I did understandI’ve subsequently tried to read a couple reviews of the book, published in newspapers I respect, to see what I am missing out on. B
Let me be clear, I only award one star to books I fail to finish.
I failed to finish this book.
And I don’t think I’ve ever given up any book that early.The problems for me were:1.
I didn’t like the bits I did understandI’ve subsequently tried to read a couple reviews of the book, published in newspapers I respect, to see what I am missing out on.
But it seems that the learned journalists whose observations I fell upon were keen to engage in erudite discussion that left me as cold as the book itself.
DNF. Just wasn't for me.
Full review to come.
“Sometimes Jacob convinced himself it was better with the swearing and brief flashes of nudity removed, that they were there only because the freedom to do such things had to be justified by exercising it.” This referenced a TV show that Jacob was a writer for, and my wish is that Jacob could have told the author not to exercise that freedom so that people could get past the first few chapters of this book without giving up.My experience of reading this book got off to a rocky start, but to be fair, in the long run, it has its redeeming qualities as well.Remember the old Clint Eastwood film, the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly?
Above all, the novel feels very believable; the characters are lifelike, and their problems and interactions are very realistic indeed.Safran Foer’s writing is, as ever, both startling and stunning, and I was reminded immediately as to why I love his work so much.
In terms of the plot, Here I Am begins in a manner which feels less historically reliant than Everything is Illuminated (2002) and Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close (2005), but this history builds, and is consequently used in masterful ways.
A lot.Also: for all the modernist montage, the narrative point of view is astonishingly, boldly, confidently 19th Century: an all-knowing, all seeing narrator that can move in and out of scenes and lives, eavesdrop on interior and exterior worlds of all the characters, portray the microlevel Bloch family and the macrolevel fate of Israel.
I'm not sure if it is weighty - there'd be the two weeks of teasing out to decide on that - but lawks it is fun.
I thought the way that Julia and Jacob's relationship changed over time was developed in an interesting way.
I'm sure that Jonathan Safran Foer had a clear intention as to why he did this, but I thought it made the first and second half of the book disconnected.
There were still aspects of the 'family' story that I enjoyed in the second half of the book, but overall I lost interest.This novel did not come up to my expectations.
It may be that I am not the audience that Jonathan Safran Foer was aiming for, but I found the novel overlong, confusing and often uninteresting.Thank you to Penguin Books (UK) and to NetGalley for an ARC.
He starts with a Franzen-style look at the American family - a spiraling web of relationships and conflicts that on its own would have still resulted in a dense, challenging work, but probably one significantly less convoluted and more satisfying.The protagonist is Jacob - a modern day version of the biblical man by the same name.
Foer makes a lot of interesting observations about humanity, Americans and Jews, and it is the family aspect of the book where he shines.However, the novel just gets weighed down more and more by everything else Foer keeps adding.
A messy, chaotic book that zooms between big ideas and forges massive connections between the personal and political, between the family and the state of Israel.
As a marriage falls apart, so does the Middle East when a huge earthquake devastates Israel and allows it to be invaded by a pan-Arab/Muslim alliance.
The whole book reads like an unstoppable outpouring of ideas that feels almost unmediated, almost spontaneous in its untidiness.
We can't help but feel that we're in the presence of something deeply intelligent, deeply creative...
In parts thrilling, in others laborious, a difficult, idiosyncratic and iconoclastic book.Thanks to the publisher for an ARC via Netgalley
I'm a huge fan of JSF's fiction, and I had a Jewish upbringing exactly like the one that was the focus of the book.
The writing was beautiful as always, but I found it was lacking his signature strangeness that I was so looking forward to (a la  Everything is Illuminated ).I loved the deep cultural references to the Ashkenazi-American experience, but anyone who isn't from that background will likely be confused, as everything was presented without context.It seems like this was written for JSF himself; everything from his life and his brain whipped together into a neat package for his own enjoyment.
A book about the slow disintegration of a marriage while constantly meditating on what it means to be Jewish. I spend almost three weeks reading it while working on my Master's Thesis. I found it to be quite beautiful and at times heartbreaking. I'm curious as to what gentile readers think of it. Foer is not very inclusive and I imagine that to someone unfamiliar with Judaism and Jewish culture lots of concepts, words and philosophical discussions will seem foreign and impenetrable.
"You only get to keep what you refuse to let go of"
Amazing first half. The Israel stuff left me cold.
Indeciso fino all’ultimo tra 3 o 4 stelle.Personaggi e scrittura non si discutono, ottimi livelli per entrambi.Dialoghi scritti magistralmente, forse troppo però (io dei bambini che parlano/ragionano così li farei internare) e sicuramente troppi.La trama principale viene resa molto bene, mentre la “sottotrama” che riguarda la guerra d’Israele è forse la parte più debole (e non è cosa da poco, rivelandosi comunque abbastanza portante per il romanzo). Molta attenzione per l’essere umano e relativamente poca per l’ambiente nel quale tutto avviene.È un buon libro? Sì.Era migliorabile? Altrettanto sì (quanto meno “asciugando” alcune parti).Cit.
This is a long novel with a lot going on.
The family life of Jewish couple Jacob and Julia Bloch, their three boys and dog was riveting.
I can’t recall a novel that depicts the growing tensions between a husband and wife as razor sharp in its insights as this.
I loved the three boys in this book.
There’s a lot of soul searching about Jewish identity in this novel, a little too much for me.
I can’t give this less than five stars because, despite some meandering sideshows, the central thrust of the novel was absolutely brilliant.
Foer has written a/the great Jewish American novel.
This book is INTENSLY personal and ambitious.
It explores the breakdown of a marriage and religious identity for Jewish Americans and Israelis.
Where it truly succeeds/transcends is the marriage/relationship/family/kids/pets/parents stuff.
It's very easy to feel you are reading an account of Foer and Krauss's marriage ending.
But I dislike when critics/readers equate the author with the fiction.
Where it gets a little heavy/self indulgent/overwritten is the religious identity stuff.
Foer does some exciting stuff with form: video game text, TV bible, speeches which he mostly pulls off with his characteristic wit, humour and skill.
I assume this kind of thing is what folks have in mind when they do the whole *eye roll* "PoMo" *ugh* thing.
First appeared at http://www.thenewdorkreviewofbooks.co...Here I Am, Jonathan Safran Foer's first novel in 11 years — the most anticipated novel of the year for many book nerds, me included — is a massive tome that sort of meanders through a bunch of big, important questions.
But it's soon clear all these un-discussed minor issues only need one major one to catalyze into a full-blown marriage blow-out.
Foer includes long strings of this rapid-fire dialogue with characters constantly asking for minor clarifications or making jokes or repeating the question the other person asked becomes anAnd then there's an earthquake in Israel.
Imagine Franzen and Foer blending their words and worlds together in a literary blender .... This novel would be the result. An epic of American Jewishness and of a world of Wars and a family. Jacob the family man. The son and the father. The modern time image of the Old Testament namesake living in the modern world and facing real dilemmas. This book was supposed to be one of the major event of the fall reading catalogue but it sort of felt short due to the vastness and the book going everywhere.
Never has my overinflation of good books bothered me as much as it does now.
This book is deserving of the 5 stars, and if all the others are as well, maybe it deserves more.I have never been a fan of JSF, and have felt lesser for it.
This book gripped me from beginning to end.
(For the record, I have not).Richly imagined yet so accessible as to be over-friendly, this book is a must for all who thought they did NOT like JSF...and everyone else.
This is a book about identity and communication. And how both affect the individual and society. The writing is amazing as usual, although I really have to read it again to see how it lives up to that and what else I will discover and feel.I think my thoughts are best captured in my video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qk-JT...
Keep one thinking and talking long after the pages close.One guy asked a question from the audience - I so wish there was time for more, but people were lining up to talk with and get their books signed by the author.
I felt I knew the answer immediately, but the author responded by talking about the buildup of the personal life crisis at hand, and how that mirrored the political one, and how both were longstanding and built over time.
I hope some folks who have read this, will talk to me about their experiences of it.
Non mancano comunque le trovate curiose che sono il suo marchio di fabbrica, tipo i nomi ritirati degli uragani atlantici dati ai cani o la parte dove entra in ballo la lingua dei segni.
[75/100]"Lì, a terra, nel mezzo della finta savana, nel mezzo della capitale federale, provò una sensazione così incontenibile e vera che gli avrebbe salvato o rovinato la vita.Tre anni dopo la sua lingua avrebbe toccato la lingua di una ragazza per cui sarebbe stato felice di tagliarsi le braccia, se solo lei gliel’avesse permesso.
Ma in tutto erano una porzione piccolissima del tempo che aveva passato sulla terra: cinque minuti all’anno?
I wanted to like this book, but I could not get past the stream of raunchy textings.
Parts of this book were so humorous, others were very touching.
Jacob's three super-precocious sons were just hilarious.
I just loved Jacob's father; no wishy-washiness there, for sure.
The story mentions many of the places that I am very familiar with.
And, I am also familiar with all the Jewish concepts and philosophies that are scattered throughout the story.
I cannot really recommend this book.
As I said, it was difficult to get past the raunchy textings.
Uma verdadeira desilusão...Review mais tarde.
