https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33916061-we-were-eight-years-in-power
Review forthcoming. Thoughtful, sobering essay collection with moments of memoir. Some exceptional moments, some repetitive ideas, a glaring absence of reckoning with the intersection of race and gender. Well worth a read.
Yet even these four essays (shorter than the rest, they comprise the first third of the volume) reveal Coates to be a writer of great promise and penetrating intellect, and the remaining five—including the epilogue—are texts which I hope will be studied in high schools and universities for years to come.Of the first four essays, I particularly recommend “This is How We Lost to the White Man,” about Bill Cosby’s black activism, and “American Girl,” about Michelle Obama as a child of the middle-class Southside Chicago neighborhoods.
Ta-Nehisi Coates takes one essay he wrote from the Atlantic during each of the eight years of Barack Obama's presidency*.
The essays were great (many REALLY, REALLY great), but since I've read them much they weren't the real gift of this novel.
I realize I would have been suckered by just the eight essays alone, but despite their near-genius still feel constrained a bit (not quite as constrained as Mehrsa Baradaran) to give the book something just below five stars.
The book really is MORE than just the eight republished essays, so 4-stars I guess.
If you have never read Coates, pick an essay.
Ta-Nehisi Coates puts together eight essays he wrote through out the years of Obama's presidency and reflects on them in terms of his own head space at the time he wrote them and his growth as a writer.
Especially because a lot of times it can be hard to see the structural inequalities or the historical context that led up to the inequalities we see today, and Coates does a really good job of clearly laying out these things so that it can't just be written off as people not working hard enough.
THIS IS ESSENTIAL, MUST READ MATERIAL  I cannot stress enough how essential this book is to the world and most importantly to America.
This book comes at the most relevant time in America's history and should be read by every American.
The writing in this book is impeccable, it is thoroughly researched and timely.
Coates speaks on an American Tragedy- mainly on race issues but everything about this book is eloquently, rich and beautifully put together.
Having read and loved  Between The World And Me  I knew this book would live up to the hype.
My review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, also can be found on my blog.A collection of eight essays first published in The Atlantic, We Were Eight Years in Power reflects on the deteriorating state of race relations in America during the Obama presidency.
In the two best essays, “The Case for Reparations” and “The Black Family in the Age of Mass Incarceration,” Coates writes urgently about history, race, and politics, and he synthesizes the ideas of intellectuals and activists in accessible and lucid ways.
Still, the strongest of the essays are full of insight and also can be found online at The Atlantic.
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!”People get readyFor the train to JordanPicking up passengersFrom coast to coast”“Faith is the keyOpen the doors and board themThere's room for allAmong those loved the most” -- “People Get Ready” – Curtis MayfieldIn 1895, South Carolina congressman Thomas Miller appealed to the State’s constitutional convention with these words -‘We were eight years in power. We had built schoolhouses, established charitable institutions, built and maintained the penitentiary system, provide
“If there is anyone out there who still doubts that America is a place where all things are possible; who still wonders if the dream of our founders is alive in our time; who still questions the power of our democracy, tonight is your answer.” 		President-elect Barack Obama – 4 November 2008As in his 2015 “Between the World and Me,” this is a book about race in America.
The relationship between Obama’s eight years as president followed by the election of Donald Trump.And now, slightly more than eight years have passed since Barack Obama was sworn in as the 44th President of the United States, the first black president of this country.
This book is a gut wrenching and maddening overview of what lead the majority of white Americans to follow the Presidency of the first black President with the election of the most unqualified and openly racist President in modern history.
A few known facts about 45: His political career was built on birtherism, In his many years in New York real estate he fought to keep blacks out of his buildings, He offered a reward to anyone who could find proof that Obama falsified his college transcripts because he didn't believe Obama was smart enough to attend an Ivy League school, truly believes all Muslims are terrorist, and all Mexicans are rapist and murders.45's world view and ideology is one of white supremacy.
The fact of a black President was viewed as a personal insult to 45.
Although I think I prefer my "Between the World and Me" audio because it is narrated by the author, this is definitely a great audio that I would recommend.
If I had to pick a favorite portion, I truly felt most affected by his essay on Barak Obama and Malcolm X(The Legacy of Malcolm X).
Perhaps it was most affecting because I just recall that most of the coverage of Obama's election caused most Canadian media to allude to Martin Luther King Jr and his "I have a dream " speech which I now realize was far from really giving us any sort of understanding about how significant this moment really was.
In all likelihood, you've read at least one already, such as "The Case for Reparations", "The Black Family in the Age of Mass Incarceration", or "My President was Black", but they are worth going over again.
One article is taken from each of the eight years of the Obama presidency.
West calls Coates a "neoliberal" as an insult, and denouncing him for having too high an opinion of President Obama, and saying Coates did not emphasize enough economic concerns of the black community.
While Coates does praise Obama, at least in the selected works here, Coates does emphasize economic concerns and the previous history of exploitation of black people in America.
I don’t want to spoil anything, but at the end of this book, Donald Trump becomes president of the United States. It’s a bummer.
This story would see him consolidate his intellectual fame, despite being overshadowed by the success of Between the World and Me. This also landed him the gig of his career."Please, come back, babySomething I want to sayWhen you left you took all of me with you." - Distant Lover by Marvin GayeTa-Nehisi Coates says in this book that the top two journal articles of his career are The Case For Reparations & his interview with President Obama, My President Was Black.
Right after his ground-breaking essay on reparations, the first paragraph of his notes for year seven of the Obama presidency takes away any hope he might have given us about the possibility for change.
Kendi, author of Stamped from the Beginning, is another.One of Coates’ last essays in this collection, “The Black Family in the Age of Mass Incarceration,” begins with the themes Daniel Moynihan wrote about in a report written for Department of Labor during Lyndon B.
But I want to highlight what Coates says in “My President was Black,” about President Obama.
In the shattering of 'the dream of a post-racial America.'"...writing is always some form of interpretation, some form of translating the specificity of one's roots or expertise or even one's own mind into language that can be absorbed and assimilated into the consciousness of a broader audience." In these essays, Coates discusses the hypocrisy behind the founding ideas of America, his studies of the American Civil War, the case for reparations, the state of the black family in the age of mass incarceration, and the rise of white supremacy once again after the election of Donald Trump.
This book is a collection of eight essays by Ta-Nehisi Coates previously published in The Atlantic, one from each year of the Obama administration.
Consequently, the average wealth of white household is six times wealthier than for blacks, a fact that is a consequence of many years of policies— partly post-war and partly historical remnants of Jim Crow and slavery.
I miss those days.Then there's the essay, The Black Family in the Age of Mass Incarceration, which revisits the 1965 report written by Daniel Patrick Moynihan titled, "The Negro Family: The Case for National Action." This report has been praised and criticized by strange combinations of various groups.
Some parts were a bit repetitive but I'll give it a pass because this book is a collection of essays/articles Coates wrote in the 8 years of Obama's presidency, so they weren't originally telling a singular story therefore the repetition wasn't repetitive in its individual publishing.In this Coates discusses mass incarceration, redlining, the Civil War, reparations, Obama, Black Power Movement, Trump, and also debunks the newly-created and annoying myth that white America has always loved MLK and the Civil Rights Movement.
Ta-Nehisi Coates has become the go-to guy on writing about race from the perspective of African-Americans.
So the book is a collection of eight essays pulled from his writing at the Atlantic magazine, but with each essay, we get a companion piece that gives us an idea what Mr. Coates was thinking at the time and where he was, not only mentally but physically in his personal life.
Ta-Nehisi smartly has his finger on the pulse of race relations in this country and is clear and unambiguous in his writing and these essays are a powerful testament to his talent.
I read it free and early thanks to Net Galley and Random House, and I apologize for reviewing it so late; the length wasn’t a problem, but the heat was hard to take.
That said, this is the best nonfiction civil rights book I have seen published in at least 20 years.
Coates started his writing career as a journalist, and became the civil rights columnist for The Atlantic.
But if a thing needs doing, it needs to be done right, and in that respect, Coates is undeniable.
I cycled through rage and anguish while reading this. It is a thorough retrospective on the (all too brief) moment of Obama's presidency, how it fits into the writer's life and how it fits into America's history.

This was a very good collection some of Ta-Nehisi's essays from the past eight years.
His new essays preface the ones that he wrote for The Atlantic.
The new essays were so good that I felt compelled to reread the old essays.
Reading these essays together was definitely an experience seeing the lines connecting as well as Coates' evolution as a writer and thinker.
I especially enjoyed the epilogue about America's first White president.****Update: Here are three great interviews with Ta-Nehisi Coates conducted by his colleagues at the magazine where he has come to prominence The Atlantic.
It’s good because Coates is an excellent writer and thinker so 5 stars for that, but it’s a collection of essays that he’s already published so there’s really nothing new here except the prologue to each essay. Those words are good and it was nice to read the essays again in order, but it’s not a new work.
An outstanding collection of essays on civil rights, history and being black in America. Powerful.
This book of essays is worth a read and made me think in new ways. Specifically, I saw a black conservatism I didn't know about before (from people I side-eye like Bill Cosby to people I admire like Barack Obama). My favorite essay by far is "Why Do So Few Blacks Study the Civil War?" for its insight on revising and reframing history. Coates is skeptical and thoughtful.
It’s challenging for me, because I know (and am related to) so many people who probably voted for Trump, but if I challenged them with the issues of race that Coates raises in his book, they would recoil and take great offense.
How could this be going on, here, now?” Maybe thinking seriously through answers and solutions is something that just can’t happen until we’re on the other side of the Trump years.I find Coates's spiritual journey, as presented throughout the book, quite fascinating.
Where do I begin when reviewing We Were Eight Years in Power: An American Tragedy by Ta-Nehisi Coates?
So...For those familiar with Ta-Nahisi Coates are reintroduced to the ideas or experiences he had before writing said article during the eight years of Obama's presidency.
In hindsight, I feel like I deprived myself for many years so it's imperative that I right this wrong and absorb all the Coates I can.Allow me to digress in explaining how I've come to this place of awe with all things Coates.
After reading Coates Atlantic article I was pissed.
Most recently I read The First White President article after seeing him speak at my high school Evanston Township, and witnessed his brilliance first-hand.

It's hard to view America any other way after reading "The election of Donald Trump confirmed everything I knew about my country and none of what I could accept."In this book TNC reproduces eight of his seminal articles devoted to race and politics and reframes them in retrospect.
TNC's point is not that white working class people should be ignored, but that racism was either a motivating factor for a large proportion of white Trump voters, or at least something they thought was tolerable in furtherance of other fanciful hopes.
"We were eight years in power." That is a quote from South Carolina state congressman Thomas Miller, an African-American who was elected at the end of Reconstruction.
Coates quotes W.E.B. DuBois in his book: "If there was one thing that South Carolina feared more than bad Negro government, it was good Negro government."This incomplete & halted era of reconstruction is the framework against which Ta-Nehisi Coates sets his book.
I received an ARC of this book via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review.This book made me angry, sad, happy, ashamed, reminiscent, worried, optimistic, and anguished at different junctures. At times, I wanted to quit reading this book in disgust, at other times I could not read this book quick enough to absorb the knowledge being disseminated. Regardless of you race, gender, political affiliation, belief structure, or history, you should be able to at least glean some tangible amount of knowledge or perspective from this book.
