https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21683.Prayers_for_Rain
Ryan In the fifth entry in Dennis Lehane’s Kenzie & Gennaro series, Karen Nichols comes to PI Patrick Kenzie when she is being harassed by a known rapist.
Another in a continuing series of first-rate thrillers from Lehane.
=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pagesOther books by Lehane I have read/reviewedThe Coughlin Series-----The Given Day-----Live by Night-----World Gone ByKenzie and Gennaro-----A Drink Before War - #1-----Darkness, Take My Hand - #2-----Sacred - #3-----Gone, Baby Gone - #4-----Moonlight Mile - #6Read, but not Reviewed-----Mystic River - a masterpiece-----Shutter Island - not
Even after being reunited with Angela, can Patrick put a stop to the blackmailer's reign of terror?Wow. After Gone Baby Gone, I assumed the Kenzie and Gennaro series would be on the decline.
I may have let a chuckle escape when they were engaged in some banter with a witness and she said "You two have a pretty act going." Bubba Rogowski showed himself to be right up there with Hawk and Joe Pike in the Bad Ass Friend hierarchy at the climax of this one.Even though I'm giving this one a five out of five, it's not all peanut butter and honey sandwiches.
Actual rating : 4.5 stars After Gone, Baby, Gone, Prayers for Rain was like a breath of fresh air.  "You wanted to play? Well, hide-and-seek is over. Let the real game begin, motherfucker."  You were baffled to see how out of character and - yes - boring his behavior was in Gone, Baby, Gone? Good news, people! PATRICK IS BACK, and that's for the best. Welcome sarcastic descriptions, infuriating and hilarious comments, smartass answers!  "Twenty miles, and it took us only an hour and fifteen minu
Actual rating : 4.5 stars After Gone, Baby, Gone, Prayers for Rain was like a breath of fresh air.
➊ You were baffled to see how out of character and - yes - boring his behavior was in Gone, Baby, Gone?
I already said it, but Bubba's the star of this fifth book.
➍ Do you know what I missed the most in Gone, Baby Gone?
White sheets and those fucking birds and it hurts, and all I can do is close my eyes and lie there and wish I didn't feel like dying."
3.5*
You wanted to play? Well, hide-and-seek is over. Let the real games begin, motherfucker.  I can't say this is exactly what I wanted it to be....because it wasn't. But not for one minute did I not enjoy it. Is that weird? This book took me a week to read, which doesn't bode well for what I thought of it-But then I take into account how busy, tired, meh I've been and it about evens out with my mood. The verdict?? When I felt a distance at the beginning, I should have stopped. I drank some more B
"I don't know why I'm smiling," Angie said."Me, either.""Prick.""Bitch."She laughed and turned on her chair, drink in hand.
And, sadly, again I don't really have time to be writing a review, but I wanted to put one out anyway-Because my Patrick and Bubba and Angie deserve one.
Patrick's love for Angie is unparalleled and makes my heart hurt with his want.
So, you know, there's only one left and it looks like, at this point, I'll be waiting for a good time to read it, because I wouldn't dare ruin the final Patrick book.
Patrick's sense of honour is keen, as usual, and so is Angela's.
I do love them.The villain is not as daunting or as scary as the publisher's summary implies, and I mean that in a good way.
Another tragedy for Patrick to sort out, poor beautiful Karen’s life ruined then suicide, but this time working without Angela there.
It’s ...’ Her small face grew bitter and gray and she shook her head several times.
Lehane turns us into vigilantes slowly, with the villain ruining the lives of our heroes’ friends.
Patrick and his personal wrecking crew Bubba manage to *ahem* 'persuade' the stalker to leave Karen alone and consider it a job well done.
He realizes that he forgot to return a call she made to him months before, and he’s shocked to hear that Karen’s life imploded after he last saw her.
Fortunately for him, Angie is willing to come back and help out.What they find is that Karen’s life was systematically destroyed by a mysterious figure.
As Patrick and Angie try to figure out who ruined Karen’s life, they’re contacted by the man who did it.
After finishing the fifth in his exploits of Kenzie & Gennaro, I can confidently say that Dennis Lehane doesn't just have my number- dude's straight up got me on speed dial. What's more, I had my defenses up this time around. I don't forgive easily, and (to my own detriment) part of me* was still feeling petulant about my   Gone, Baby, Gone  -induced melancholia.I don't trust myself to say much about this one without ruining surprises (pleasant or otherwise). There will be more  Bubba Rogows
After finishing the fifth in his exploits of Kenzie & Gennaro, I can confidently say that Dennis Lehane doesn't just have my number- dude's straight up got me on speed dial.
What's more, I had my defenses up this time around.
I don't forgive easily, and (to my own detriment) part of me* was still feeling petulant about my 
Gone, Baby, Gone
So, in summation, I'll likely be subjecting myself to more of the twisted sweet torture of Lehane-land deviance soon enough.
____________________________________________* An emotionally-stunted part that should not be acknowledged when it comes to evaluating the quality of literature (Gone, Baby, Gone is an excellent read).
I needed to read lighter books with stories that didn't make me feel like breaking down or getting angry because of stupid laws that make children's lives miserable.But I decided to read the next one when I saw that I need to return the Lehane books I had at home to the library.
Anyway, this book was a lot easier to read, the story is good, really good, just a hell of a lot lighter than Gone, Baby Gone, that doesn't mean that the story was fluffy and sweet, just that I could read it and it didn’t make me furious or sad.
But Bubba showed in the end what he feels about people hurting dogs.It's a fast read, as always with Lehan's books.
Patrick Kenzie is approached by a woman named Karen Nichols who asks him to scare off a stalker.
About four months later, Karen leaves a vague message on Patrick’s phone asking for help with something.
I was worried as the chemistry that Bubba, Angie and Patrick share could be the basis for countless novels and I had hoped Lehane wouldn’t screw around with it by taking Angie out of the equation.
However, he knows these characters inside and out and together they form a rare ensemble that any crime fiction writer should aspire to create, so it would be foolish to mess with a good thing.Patrick’s unwavering determination drives the story as he comes face-to-face with an absolute psychopath of a villain.
Dark, Depthless Diversion(Funereal Fun, Oversexed Hun)3.5 stars (4 for Lehane fans; 3 for those who haven't read his work yet)I enjoyed this 5th in Lehane's Kenzie & Gennaro series, this one involving the unraveling of the sordid past of a seemingly prudish young woman, and finding her stalker.
The main characters, Kenzie and Gennaro, seemed genuine, their dialogue charged with liveliness and undercurrents of sexual tensions, and Lehane kept the action suspenseful throughout.
Yet, I found the surrounding plot on the edge of implausibility and the supporting cast a bit too stereotypical.I recommend this for those who have enjoyed any book in the Kenzie/Gennaro series.
8.5/10After enough time had passed from reading “Gone, Baby, Gone” and the sun was seeming to shine once more and the sound of children playing with puppies didn’t make me curl up into a ball and rock away until the wee hours, I decided to pick up the next Lehane novel in the Kenzie & Gennaro series to make all that misery come rushing back like it was a long lost friend.I was actually a little surprised in this novel though as there wasn’t as much misery and depression.
Poor to follow.I did not complete.
I loved it, and only later realized it is considered his best work.Of course, I can't read it now, at least until I've totally forgotten the movie.So until then, I'm picking through his work, and I've very much enjoyed this series so far.
It was great to get back to these characters, especially Bubba, and the story was just complex enough to get the brain buzzing but digestable enough to make this a speedy read.This isn't the best of the series.
What started off as another excellent Lehane book was ruined by the last couple of pages for me, unfortunately.
In itself, that wasn't too bad, kind of icing on the cake, but (view spoiler)[the idea that Kenzie would threaten - no promise - this devious man that he would come after him in the future was ridiculous.
The entire book was a fight through that very tangled web to get to the person ultimately responsible.
So, we finally wind up with the true villain & Kenzie just walks?
(hide spoiler)]I'll look forward to the next book, if only to see if the situation is retrieved.
I wanted to see the movie; and since I make it a point never to see a mystery movie without reading the book, I read the book-and was hooked.Lehane writes beautifully (I mean, it is not great literature, but one does not look for it in a murder mystery); Prayers for Rain will hook you and pull you in from the first page, and the pace never lets up.
Lehane takes pains to build the world of his story.
Also, to make Wesley's and Scott's plans work, Lehane had to create a lot of co-conspirators, which makes the story rather far-fetched.However, all these can be ignored.
Awesome penultimate offering ; featuring the reunion we wanted. If you want to read a series you can enjoy over and over again, with great characters and characterization, then Lehane is your guy. He is the definition of being readable. If you wanna check out contemporary fiction but typical route is not your thing, then this series is the perfect in between. So enjoyable. So enjoy .
Another winner by Lehane, the premise was good, the suspense was nerve-racking, but the only thing preventing me from giving this book 5 stars is the abrupt ending, other than that it was a great book!Prayers for Rain takes place shortly after the events of Gone Baby Gone, Patrick Kenzie is now working solo, and Angie Gennaro deciding to end their partnership and their personal relationship, and is now living out of Dorchester, working for an investigative firm.
In "Prayers for Rain", he has delivered another spellbinding detective story, which leaves little to the imagination.
Deftly plotted, it is gritty, suspenseful, often violent and offers endless surprises.
The few quiescent periods in this very emotional story offer little respite from unexpected action.
The suspense is further heightened at the climax with several unanticipated twists.Lehane's characters are clearly visualized, including the assortment of miscreants who march across the pages.
It is easy to like Patrick Kenzie, the detective of this story, along with Angie Gennaro, his beloved partner- sometimes manager!
Of interest to some Lehane fans, this follows his successful book,Gone, Baby, Gone .
I loved this book. Dennis Lehane is usually a solid 4 stars for me. This one is 5 stars for a few reasons. First, I was hooked from the very beginning and I was pulled right in. I also loved the dialogue. It was nicely written and it had me laughing out loud. Humor is always a plus. The MCs were great. They were well drawn and very personable. I liked rooting for them. When I pick up a Dennis Lehane book, I always know that the characters will be wonderful and the story will tug me along.
Karen Nichols, a seemingly perfect prime and proper young lady, hires private detective Patrick Kenzie to warn off Cody Falk, a stalker who has a history of rape and abuse of women.
Bubba rearranges Cody’s car and they leave with suitable threats of potential carnage should anything happen to Karen.
Six months later Karen jumps naked from a six story building and Patrick wants to learn what happened.
He learns that Karen’s boyfriend had been killed in a car accident and that she had been raped before her descent into drugs and despair.
Angie, Patrick and Bubba are on the case together and they just sparkle when they get together.
Patrick is on the case of a girl who committed suicide.
But he gets Angie to come help him out.
Of course, what was I thinking, the bad guy has to be former military, this is Lehane after all (view spoiler)[ FUCK YOU LEHANE!
This minor point probably would not have bugged me if I wasn't already pissed off about the bad guy origin.
I will always pick up a Lehane book, can't help it.
An author whom I know from at least one good book in the past, interesting setup of the plot, realistic characters, skillful writing, all so promising until...
Kenzie is devastated: he feels heavy guilt - several weeks before her death Karen tried to call him and he was too busy to return her call.The first third of the novel, maybe even a half, reads like real literature, well-written, and captivating.
I know that this is part of the series but I only have this book so I read it anyway.Since reading Shutter Island and loving it, I try to read more of Lehane's books.
And Prayers for Rain did not disappoint.
I like the book.
I love the characters, Patrick, Angie and Bubba.
I also really love the case.
How twisted the villain is and how he played with people's mind.
And the ending suprised me.This makes me want to read more books from the series (hopefully I can read them in order).
I give 4 stars for Prayers for Rain.
Rain? Have been reading all the books in series. What I love most about these books, is the complex, build up to problem solving what has happened or is happening. The profanities are aplenty, but add to the rawness of the "real" characters referenced throughout the book. Once everything was falling into place at the end, I thought Hey. Did I miss references that made the title fit? Can anyone explain? Was it in the bog scenes? Now must pick up the final book to date in the series!!
Dennis pisses me off, and that's a good thing. He has a way to make you really hate some characters. The story wasn't as tight as his other work, but still a good read to pass my commute time.
Lehane's Kenzie and Gennaro series is best described as being in the Noir series of detectives (I am reminded of Andrew Vacchs as another excellent member of this genre).
At least, not after you've read Lehane.As my other reviews attest, I'm interested in the lone hero in novels (series only, please), an interest awakened by the Jack Reacher novels of Lee Child and Coben's Myron Bolitar series as well as other excellent novelists (see my other reviews).
Lehane takes this a step further and presents us with a three way split from Jack Reacher: Gennaro (the good), Kenzie (the good mixed with propensity for violence), and Bubba (our favorite sociopath).When it comes to Noir, you can't get any better than Dennis Lehane.
Plot--As other reviewers have commented, there are holes in the plot or at least weak points, why would the mobster take $10K from a stranger, how does Scott exercise such control, how did he convince the psychiatrist--but Lehane keeps the plot moving (from focusing on karin to Cody to the mob threat to the Dawes to Wesley to the final confrontation), so quickly that many of these weaknesses do not become apparent until the ride is over or in the last third of the novel when the story settles into the focus on Scott/Wesley.
Also Lehane attempts to coopt military/techno thriller to explain certain plot points, he makes some errors but more he is clearly not familiar/comfortbale with the setting and the information.
Whether manipulating third parties into doing his dirty work, destroying the innocent for the fun of it, or leading poor Kenzie on a literal game of cat and mouse.
The character is a formidable and terrifying oppenent, and that's before it's revealed he knows Kung Fu. But then a strange thing happens in the home stretch when he suddenly turns into a total pussy once a bit of his mysteries taken away.
And even if this is the last book about my favorite pair of Boston mugs, at least Lehane has left them in a pretty good place.
Prayers For Rain by Dennis LehaneKenzie & Gennaro Series Book #53.5 StarsFrom The Book:When a former client jumps naked from a Boston landmark, Private Investigator Patrick Kenzie wants to know why.
He and his former partner, Angela Gennaro, will fight a mind-twisting battle against the psychopath, even as he turns tricks on them…My Views:I like Dennis Lehane's writing style.
The main problem with this book was that his lead characters constantly did such unpredictable, unprofessional, unbelievable, and entirely unnecessary things to achieve their goal.
This small glitch won't deter me from reading more of this series, but hope he sticks more to his main story line in the future.
