https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95607.Unveiled
I've never really read a novelization of biblical stories before, but I'm going to have to get the rest in this series.Unveiled is a beautiful and uplifting story about the Canaanite woman Tamar, who was married to the great-grandsons of Abraham and the daughter-in-law of Judah.
Tamar, Ruth, Esther, Mary, and all the other women of the Bible took risks as great as the ones Joseph, David, and all our other Biblical heroes did.As a Christian women, it's comforting and uplifting to hear the unsung stories of my foremothers in the faith.
This book was great...a quick read as well. It is a fictional story based on scripture regarding Joseph's brother Judah. I enjoy Francine Rivers writing because she does studies at the end of her books and states this is her perception based on scripture. There is a series of these books of women in the Bible. I can't wait to read the next one!
Francine Rivers takes a passage like that and turns it into a novel that explores what MIGHT have been.
Remember, this is fiction based on a few facts...so while the skeleton may be truth, the body of the book is made up based what knowledge there is about that time period.
For me, reading this helped me see beyond the cold facts to the emotion...to the reality of life in those days.
I am horrified at what life was like for women in those days.
I am awed by the power of God. This story takes a woman we quickly read past and brings her to life.
I picked this book up and when I had a few hours to wait this afternoon, and was delighted with this little novella.
It made for an easy read -- I finished it in one sitting -- and yet it had a lot of heart behind it, too.I have always been intrigued about Tamar's story in the bible.
Francine Rivers view of how this young woman might have been like, how she felt, and why she reacted the way she did was very well done.
Tamar was a very extraordinary woman, and I just loved how she kept seeking God, even when Judah kept putting her off.
I had never studied Tamar. I could not put this down.
Although this book is mostly fiction in the dialog and some of the storyline, the core of it is 100% scripture.This is a great story of a strong, courageous, and righteous young Canaanite woman who found a great faith in the Unseen God of Abraham.
it is also a remarkable and wonderful story of the redemption of a man named Judah .I love the way Francine uses scripture for dialog as well.
it shows how scripture permeates our life, to give us hope, strength and courage.Now.....time for the next book of the women in the linage of Christ....Rahab.
"Tamar.
Her name meant date palm.
It was a name given to one who would become beautiful and graceful.
A date palm survives the desert and bears sweet, nourishing fruit, and the girl came from a fertile family.
A date palm sways in the desert winds without breaking or being uprooted, and this girl had to face Ers quick, irascible temper.
A date palm could survive a hostile environment, and Judah knew Bathshua would see this girl as her rival.
Judah knew his wife would pit herself against this young bride because Bathshua was vain and jealous of her sons affections".
Tamar isn't exactly a beloved Bible character, but this novel makes for a good historical read. Still, the ending was too pat, and the study notes in the back matter were dull.
Her father trades her off at the age of 14 to Judah's son Er, who is known to be malicious and cruel, as he is afraid of the Hebrews, of Judah.Er is beats her, Judah's wife is cruel, Judah is indifferent.
Her father is disgusted, beats her, treats her as a slave until he sees how everything Tamar touches flourishes.
4 years or more down the road, Tamar sees the third son in the market and realizes that Judah has no intention of keeping his promise.
Our new little Book Club decided to read this Francine Rivers biography of the Biblical figure, Tamar, the hapless daughter-in-law of Judah (the older brother of Joseph (coat of many colors fame.)I had previously discounted this little series of books as worth my time and money.
We learn much about the culture of the time and the necessity for a woman to bear offspring to continue the family line.
For Tamar, though, this necessity was the difference between life and death.There is the added feature in this book, of wonderful helps in the form of questions for personal reflection as well as questions for group discussion.
It was believed that she had a curse on her husbands, or the first two line of Hebrew men since it was there custom on both sides (Canaanite and Hebrew Jew) to marry next male child in line if your first husband dies.
It showed disobedience can be life-threatening, but she held on to the promise regardless of the lie Judah told her in the fear of losing his youngest son after the first two died.
Instead of worrying about carrying a male child, she actually carried two sons.
We see how God guides Tamar's life and helps Tamar.
It is inspiring to see a woman who came up in a different religion and culture have so much faith in the God of the Hebrews.
God sees her faith and persistence in finding Him, so He protects Tamar and saves her from her evil husbands and mother in law.
We see how God uses the trials in our lives to bless us, to mold us, and to glorify His name.
How great is our God.
Francine Rivers does it again. She is truly my favorite Christian author. She can retell a bible story to make it come alive. I enjoy the biblical history of her books so much! Tamar lived a difficult life, but she didn't let it consume her. She dealt with daily struggles and seemed to find answers through the one true God.
Rivers can eleborate on a biblical story so that it truly comes alive as a real person living their day-to-day lives during that time. She certainly did her homework with customs and culture, and it is still a quick, light, easy read. Then she ties it all to the bigger picture of the lineage of Christ. Bravo!
what an amazing fictional account of Tamar. This was a quick read and I love the authors writing style. I read this for a book club and so glad I did. can't wait to read the rest of the series.
Wonderful book! It shows the consequence of disobedience, the outcome of an unequal yoke marriage and the great mercy of our Lord! It's a must-read! Highly recommend!
This book was an enjoyable and fast read. I felt myself caught up in the story and by the end of it wishing I had the courage and insight that Tamar had. I was able to easily imagine in my mind the scenery and story as it unfolded. I cheered for her and for her Father in law throughout and I learned lessons along the way.I find it uplifting when I see others turning to the Lord for guidance and acting as role-models for future generations.
So, when Tamar here married Er the son of Judah and she failed to produce a son before he died, she was passed onto someone else in the family to produce a son to carry on the name.Onan was next in line.
Next, Tamar was going to marry Judah’s third son and was told when he was of age she could.Judah is a big fat dummy liar man.*IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT: THIS IS WHERE THE FIRST FEMINIST IS MADE.*Tamar decided to dress as a prostitute and seduce her father-in-law-kind-of Judah and get her son.
Francine Rivers tells it as it could have happened by considering the ancient customs and the circumstances of life of this period.This book is dedicated to all people who are beingused and abused and to all people who yearn for rightousness since thecentral figure, Tamar, had to suffer a difficult fate butnever gave up her hope.It's hard to believe that she could have stayed so kind and patient with everyone, even with those who treated her badly.What I didn't like about this book is the black-and-white portrayal of the characters.
Only Juda is portrayed like a real life character.In der Bibel erfährt man nicht viel über Tamar (nur 1.
Like the other Francine Rivers' books I have read, Unveiled brings light to a person in the Bible, getting me to think about them in more than a two-dimensional fashion.
I admit that I never considered why Tamar made the choices she did in Judah's family.
Rivers skillfully points out the many sinful situations that made Tamar feel boxed in with no way out.
Yes, the men did sin by denying her their responsibilities to carry on the line, but she could have trusted God to bring her a child in His way, rather than taking matters into her own hands.
I don't feel the book even considered this option.
Another Lineage of Grace reread! I can read and reread anything Francine Rivers writes. This novella is the first of the Lineage of Grace series, although, I think I read them out of order both times. These novella do stand alone if the reader doesn't have all four. Unveiled is the Bible history of Judah, Er, Onan and Tamar retold in narrative fiction format. Mrs. Rivers has a wonderful ability to bring the facts of the Bible and make them come alive with cultural and characters true to the time.
I had always thought this was one of the saddest and strangest stories in the OT. Francine Rivers offers a portrayal of Tamar in this novel that lessened the strangest and explained why Tamar might have made the decision she did as far as tricking Judah. Rivers also painted a very logical picture of the guilt Judah had carried all his life for what he allowed to happen to his brother Joseph. Another novella in the Lineage of Grace series.
Just finished this book! It is an excellent read! I love how Francine Rivers really fleshes out this story. When reading the Bible, it sometimes seems so dry and quick when reading the history. But this author really brings the story to life. There is so much detail and the characters and their emotions see so life-like...this fiction story makes the true story so much more relatable. Love it! Going to continue reading through this series...
An interesting Christian historical fiction based on Gen 38. Reading this made me really appreciate not just the freedoms but the respect woman have in the area of the world I have lived. I absolutely can not imagine what it must have been like to be a woman at that time. To be treated worse than an animal in many ways. Nothing in my world could even touch the depth of sorrow, betrayal, grief and loneliness that these woman endured.
Francine Rivers has ruined me for other authors!!These books are so powerful that It is hard to return to secular books that only offer entertainment at best.I am speechless! This does not happen often!!!
Really liked it. She did a great job at telling the story of Tamar as she saw it. I can tell she did a ton of Bible digging also.
The story of Tamar came alive with the skill of Francine Rivers.
This was amazingly done with writing skill, expert story telling and truthful Biblical excerpts and historical facts from the Bible and from history of the Israelites and Canaanites.
Nothing was missed as this author filled in culture, emotions, desires and teachings which would have been in the background of the story of Tamar, a young Canaanite girl, chosen by Judah, son of Jacob, to be a wife to his eldest son, Er. Tamar was literally only a child, but a child who understood her responsibility and calling, based on the customs of the day.
Tamara.Meno Tamara má hebrejský pôvod.Znamená ďatlová palma.Tak ako aj ďatlová palma prežije na púšti a dokáže sa vysporiadať s mnohými útrapami počasia, tak dokázala aj nositeľka tohto mena a zároveň hlavná hrdinka prežiť všetky útrapy a vzoprieť sa osudu, ktorý sa zdal už vopred určený.Manžela jej vybral otec.
Vedela, že Júdov Boh, Jahve, je ten praví Boh. Lenže, ako sa môže dozvedieť o ňom viac?
Vedela, akú moc a silu má Boh. Dokáže ju, Tamaru a pohanku, Boh Júdy a jeho otca Jakuba vypočuť?
The only lament I have is that the book could have been longer, but I understand that that is out of the author's control - she could only write what is recounted.
Despite it all, the story was very engaging, very believable, and true-to-life, reminding me of the same sort of writing by Kacy Barnett-Gramckow, whose Genesis Trilogy was the first time I'd read anything that portrayed biblical characters.Traditionally, not much is ever said about Tamar, Judah's daughter-in-law, except to say that she was married to two of his sons, and then widowed and childless.
I can't say I ever thought much about them having much of a conversation until I read this book!
Like the last book by Francine Rivers that I read (Redeeming Love), it's a fictional work based on a Biblical story.
The Biblical story is quite short and doesn't have a lot of detail, but Tamar ended up being the mother in the lineage of Jesus - pretty amazing.
Francine did a lovely job of staying true to the short account in Genesis about Tamar's life, but filled in some blanks based on what we know of those ancient cultures.
I'll be looking forward to picking up #2 in the Lineage of Grace series!
