https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13845.More_Milly_Molly_Mandy
It is a large format paperback and contains the original illustrations, but in colour.
The only doubt she expressed was when Little Friend Susan’s mother called her baby Doris!
This collection, plus the original “Milly-Molly-Mandy Stories,” are both available as colour editions and are the perfect introduction to this lovely world, charming characters and are a really fantastic addition to any child’s bookshelves.
This review is for the large format paperback colour edition of this book.
More sweet stories of Milly-Molly-Mandy and her friends that are the perfect length for reading out loud. These simple stories of growing up transcend generations because they capture common childhood emotions.
OH wow...hadn't forgotten, but hadn't put in either.LOVED all of these....and can well remember receiving the books at intervals with cellophane wrapped packets of MMM handkerchiefs from a doting Godmother. Perhaps 1953 onwards....for 2 or 3 years.
Its great.
It´s great.
Kids should read this good stuff
I haven't read any Milly-Molly-Mandy since I was seven or eight, but I was just as delighted (if not more so) with her stories as an adult as I was as a child. The stories are sweet, gentle and surprisingly funny, with gorgeously detailed illustrations. Tales of mushrooming, picture shows and tea in a tree house remind the reader of the simple pleasures of childhood, and take even an '80s baby like me back to a more innocent, more honest time. A charming read.
Read aloud with Bella. A sweet series of stories about a little girl (her full name is Millicent Margaret Amanda) in England, first published in the 20s. Each chapter is a complete story, which makes it easy to read just one at a time. Bella thinks this one is laugh out loud funny.
The Milly Molly Mandy books are an absolute delight. Wonderful, wonderful old-fashioned tales that are just a treat to read. I loved them when I was little (they were like a literary cuddle when read aloud by my mother) and still love them now that I am significantly bigger.
A well read book from childhood. When I re-read this to my own daughters they were not appreciative. It seems quite dated when compared to other classics such as Anne of Green Gables.
I have the originals passed down from my mother. Such a classic children’s collection of stories.
I think this is a wonderful set of books for kids to read. Milly-Molly-Mandy has fun adventures and a slower time of life is highlighted.
Library book
My favourite childhood book - I still love the little map of the village
Terribly nice. Rather dated by the sexism, but still fun.
I didn't like this one as much as the first collection for some reason, but it still has some fun stories.
Oh, how we love MMM!
this is a really good book because milly-molly-mandy is generaly outside.
