https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/610681.The_Red_Lion
È un libro degli anni '40 con una violenta storia editoriale che ci è giunto quasi per caso.
Al di là della trama questo libro è ricco di spunti di riflessione e, poichè mi ha trasmesso tanto, finisce di prepotenza nella mia top 10.L'Elisir ottenuto col delitto ti ha reso schiavo delle passioni.
Ma è tanto bello quanto complesso perché alcune chiavi di lettura non sono immediate ma, nonostante tutto, vale la pena fare quest'esperienza.
Posso giusto dire che è suddiviso in 3 parti perché 3 sono le porte della conoscenza da varcare.
My feelings about the book: Amazed, Startled, Excited, PeaceMaria Szepes was a Hungarian writer, so I read her book in Hungarian, but one of my dreams is to read this in English.I like this book so much, it is about the development of the spirit through more course of lifes. It is an adventure book. Good for just reading too.
The first novel by Mária Szepes was published 1946 in Hungary (original title: "A Vörös Oroszlán").
Then several supporters of the author typed up the novel, made templates for printing, and released the self-made copies into the underground.
More details regarding the history of origin are reported by Hans Joachim Alpers in his preface of the 2002 re-issue.Szepes tells the story of unhappy Hans Burger, a miller's son born in the 16th century.
This is the starting point of a journey through the centuries, because from now on Burger can physically die, but is born into different circumstances over and over again and retains his full memory.
Here I am again, 5th time, reading my favourite book...
Aki utálja, hosszasan mesél arról mennyire lassú, feleslegesen részletes, mégis elnagyol és pátoszos az egész, s aki szereti, arról igyekszik meggyőzni a hajlandó hallgatóságot, hogy csodálatos, lassan építkező történet, alaposan kidolgozott karakteretekkel, elképzelhetetlen varázslatokkal, hihetetlen utazással. Szóval nem, nem biztos hogy szeretni fogod, és ha nem fogod szeretni, akkor csak utálni tudod.http://napifalat.blogspot.hu/2018/01/...
This is one of my top 5 books of all time. I have read it countless times and will continue to do so, because every time you read it, you find deeper and deeper layers of symbolism, connections and wisdom. This is one of those books that I would like to have with me if I was stranded on an island with only a handful of books...
I have read this book at least 5 times... I think that it would be fair to say it's a lot like Jonathan Livingston Seagull but more in depth and no crappy seagull pictures!!! Really enjoyed this book and recommend it to everyone and anyone who likes to think of our current existence as just a step in an evolutionary process!
The book does take you on a spiritual journey. Must reread and get more information out of it. I'm sure it gives different insights every time, depending on your mind state. Now I truly wonder "who I've been?" and "where I'm at?" on my long journey. You start to look around and sort of understand or take people's actions more mellow.
An alchemical romp through four centuries by a man cursed by a murder to continually see a future he can not control. First published in 1946, this is the work of an author almost two well versed in religion and mysticism.
Me gusto mucho este libro, creo que si de verdad uno se prepara, podemos reencarnar con total conciencia.
One of the best esoteric books around! Great story, great storytelling, great esoteric knowledge. I highly recommend this novel to anyone who is interested in spirituality.
OUTSTANDING!
Interesting. The author definitely has an agenda. Her style is quite captivating, but you have to wade through the philosophy. It is also somewhat anti-woman, especial anti- sexual woman.
This is a sweeping saga of a single soul's journey through time.
The spiritually minded will find certain profound truths sprinkled throughout the narrative, like "earthly law merely executes spiritual justice." Like meditation, The Red Lion has the power to alter one's perception for a time and is a helpful means of piercing the veil to reach spiritual reality.
Nevertheless, the book is overly long and indulges in the addition of too many characters and extended descriptions, and tarries far too long in the period of the French Revolution.
Still, it's a worthy read that will likely stay with the reader for quite a while.
Az élet regénye, a szellemi fejlődés útvonala – csodálatos belső utazás remek „kalandokkal”!
great spiritual book about the path of the soul to the eliberation, about reincarnation, lecons learnt, suffrences and challenges on the path
Also als erstes muss ich den nicht ganz ernst geminten Kommentar loswerden, dass ich verstehen kann, wieso dieses Buch seinerzeit vernichtet wurde - es ist das erste Buch (und ich habe bereits mehrere hundert gelesen), bei dem ich immer mal wieder das Bedürfnis hatte, es anzuzünden.Und nun die ernst gemeinte Rezension:Im Grunde geht es in dem Buch darum, dass ein relativ verachtungswürdiger Mensch mit Namen Hans Burgner seinen Lehrmeister ermordet, um an das Elixir des ewigen Lebens zu gelangen.
The author seems to hold a deep belief that men and women are essentially different from each other, which just annoys me, as someone who identifies as neither binary gender, and seen all shades of how people live and express their gender(s).There are a couple of "lesbian" characters in the novel - I'm writing it with quotes, because in the novel they are only attracted to women, because they have a male soul in a female body, and these male souls loved women so much that they wanted to be born in the body of one, not just have sex with them...
Also the only bisexual/pansexual character's bisexuality/pansexuality is portrayed as a symptom of her sexual depravity...So it was quite a disappointing read for the second time (didn't even finish it tbh), this deep belief in a gender dichotomy and the all-permeating heteronormativity just totally put me off Dx
l'autrice ha dato il meglio di sé, romanzo storico come pochituttavia mi sento di dire due cose; il libro rallenta troppo dopo l'uscita di scena di Homonculus, tanto che ho faticato a proseguire, viene di tanto in tanto in soccorso l'autrice donando qualche particolare in più, che sembra quasi vederci perdere in una (forse eccessiva) ricchezza di particolari caratterialiil libro si riprenderà un poco con l'arrivo di St.Germain dando un piccolo colpo di scena alla fine del penultimo capitolocome dicevo, sono davvero notevoli le diversità caratteriali che si trovano nel libro
My favorite book, when I was 13.
Read it in portuguese.Now I am reading again, and it's suitable for the "Harry Potter" lovers.
I was surprised with the story once, but now I found many cliches in it.
Nevertheless, the end is valid for the whole story.
It teaches us points full of meaning that we can learn for a better life.
My point: one book do for a lifetime.
There are many books in the world to read.
Maybe a pick this one book to read and re-read during my life, just to see how the story changes for me.
another magical realism novel....bagi yang suka dengan paulo coelho dan tenth insight-nya james redfield, buku ini sungguh menarik hati karena bercerita tentang the alchemist.... dan mungkinkah coelho pernah membaca atau terpengaruh dengan buku karangan pengarang Hungaria ini saat menuliskan bukunya berjudul the alchemist yang sangat terkenal tsb, disebabkan buku karangan maria szepes ini telah lebih dulu terbit tahun 1946..?? who knows....!!
This one's a hard one to get, I read it long time ago and remember really liking it and I had to pay $50 online to own it. And the library didn't have any copies either. But it's a very intriguing story, I'll be reading it again very soon.
A great story, that my gut feeling tells me has a strong basis of fact. A fascinating look into the world of the secret societies/brotherhoods, alchemy (as it really is) and the occult. And very readable.
I read this years ago, but I really need to read it again. I've forgotten most of it, but I remember it being epic.
Ein faszinierender Roman über die Suche nach dem Roten Löwen (dem Stein der Weisen) und über die Geisteshaltungen verschiedener historischer und erdachter Alchimisten.
Brilliant.
Excellent and thought-provoking novel about the ancient alchemists' elixir of immortality.
A wonderful book that made me question whether the fictionous aspect of the story. Following the reincarnation and karmic process of one individual, highlights our own Karmic path...
excellent synchronicity-follows
