https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278264.Wringer
On his next birthday he will become a 'wringer,' one of the boys who snaps the necks of wounded birds at Waymer, Pennsylvania's annual Pigeon Day shoot.
Surely, I thought, nothing like pigeon shoots has happened in recent years.
For 66 years, Hegins, Pennsylvania (obviously the model for Spinelli's fictional Waymer) held a Labor Day pigeon shoot where more than 5,000 birds were killed.
Knowing all that certainly added to my involvement in 'Wringer,' but the book also is wonderful for the gift Spinelli has of capturing just how kids and their parents think and act.
This book was unique and captivating. It's definitely intended for younger kids, but it's still good all the same. Similar to another of Jerry Spinelli's books, Stargirl, it tells young readers that they don't have to give in to peer pressure. If they don't feel something is right, they need to voice their opinion. This is an important idea to instill at a young age in preparation for teenage-hood, kids need to know that they don't have to follow the crowd, even if it seems as if they're the only one.
Palmer becomes determined to protect Nipper and in the end Dorothy releases the pigeon outside the town in order to save his life.
Pigeon Day comes and Palmer goes to watch, although he refuses to be a “wringer.” After talking to Dorothy, he eventually figures out that Nipper is probably one of the birds that is going to be released and he is determined to save his pet and take Nipper home with him.
Although this book has been challenged, I still think that is would be a good novel for students to read.
The annual pigeon day is a huge event and Palmer has a decision to make -- should he become a "man," or should he stand alone and say no.Wanting desperately to belong, Palmer abandons his long-term friendship of a neighborhood girl and initially finds a sense of belonging by becoming a member of the in crowd of male bullies where the rite of acceptance is a birthday brutal punch in the arm for every year.
I'm not even exaggerating - I'm all dead serious - this book kept me on tenterhooks with its potent writing which packs such an incredible, strong punch and various emotions - fear, anxiety, affinity and so many more.
His ten year-old birthday is the day he dreads the most followed by Family Fest where the town holds an event where they release 5,000 pigeons for the sky only to have shooters shoot them down.
Palmer's conflicting emotions are so eloquently depicted in this book.
In Wringer it's visceral, our protagonist's dread of turning ten:'In his dreams he looks down to find his hands around the neck of the pigeon.
Only the voices speak: 'Wring it!' ' In Palmer's town, on the last day of Family Fest, thousands of pigeons are released from cages as live targets in a sharp shooting contest.
(Live pigeon shoots are still legal in PA.)On its own merit, Wringer is already a tightly suspenseful, claustrophobic novel: full of wonderful character moments and observational gems that build on its examination of peer pressure.
قصة مدينة لايرحم القاطنين فيها أسراب الحمام الوديعة بل يمارسون شتى أنواع القتل بتفنن وهنالك مواسم تق
Obviously inspired by the infamous  Hegins Pigeon Shoot, Spinelli weaves the story of a young boy who faces an incredible dilemma: will he follow the path of his peers and become a “wringer” of the necks of injured birds at his town’s annual pigeon shoot, or will he stay true to his values and the wayward pigeon he’s adopted as a pet?The book is told from the perspective of Palmer, a boy who has just turned ten—a milestone he has been dreading.
From a humane standpoint, there’s so much to like about this book: major themes addressed include bullying, peer pressure, cruelty to animals, staying true to one’s self, and societal expectations.
1998 Newbery Honor BookI wasn't really sure what this book would be about by the cover.
He turns 9 at the beginning of the book and has been accepted into a gang of boys named Beans, Mutto and Henry.
When he turns 10, he knows he's expected to help wring the pigeons' necks to kill them after they've been shot down (hence, "wringer").
It becomes his pet but he's afraid of the boys finding out and he's afraid of it getting shot too.It was a nice little book about standing up for yourself and refusing to do something because "everyone else is doing it."
A classmate told me I should read this book and I'm so glad she did! By the looks of it, it isn't a book I would ever pick up, even after reading the back I didn't like it. I started reading it and I loved it. I'm sad that I finished it so quick, I never wanted it to end. Wringer is now one of my favorite books, I want to go back and reread it already!
it was bad so I abandoned it.
Cleanliness:Children's Bad WordsMild Obscenities & Substitutions - 5 Incidents: dumb, shut up, stupid, phooeyName Calling - 13 Incidents: dumb, stupid, hoodlums, Fishface (all throughout book), Sissymiss!
Girlbaby!, pooperReligious Profanities - 1 Incident: GeeAttitudes/Disobedience - 11 Incidents: A boy is a sneak and a troublemaker but a boy befriends him even though his mother doesn’t like it.
A group of boys pick on a girl, calling her Fishface, throughout the entire book.
He lies constantly to cover up this fact, to his parents, teacher, friends.
Mentions a pigeon’s breast feathers.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
وهكذا دخلت الكتاب دون أي معرفة لماهية هذا العصار ، لأكتشف حبكة مثيرة للاهتمام و الجمال يديرها الكاتب ببراعة يحسد عليها ، ففي مدينة بطلنا الصغير الذي لم يتجاوز العاشرة من عمره ، يقام في كل عام عيد سنوي كبير يدعى أسبوع الأسرة ، وفي اليوم الأخير من العيد يحضر إلى الساحة جميع أهل المدينة ، ليشاهدوا عرضا لا يمكن تفويته حسب أعراف أهل تلك المدينة ، فهناك يتم اطلاق خمسة آلاف حمامة كل خمسة منها سوية ، ويتسلى الناس بمشاهدة الصيادين وهم يقتلون الحمام حمامة حمامة ..
My son selected this for Family Book Group.
Palmer's isolation is anguishing - it's very hard for me (as an adult) to read about him running around with his thuggish friends and working so hard to appear to be something he isn't.
I thought his quiet, caring, companionship with Palmer during Family Fest was especially poignant: During the week his father said many things, mostly with his hands.
(206)For me, Dorothy is a real hero of the book.
She put up with Palmer when he and his friends mocked her.
And she was a real friend when he returned to her later.
I learned that there are things you can't share with people all the time. Even though this would be an issue I can share I found in my own life I have things I can't talk about with anyone because of the way they will think about me...
Read only once in my youth: the whole idea of wringing a pigeon's neck as a rite of passage was so far removed from my world that it horrified me...
The cover of this book positively haunted me when I was young but I never took the time to read it.
After all, I'm only one state away from where pigeon shoots are still legal.
And wringers are young boys...The whole notion of this book may seem to many like an odd one.
A young boy fears his 10th birthday, knowing that as soon as it comes he'll have to be a wringer.
They're the ones who run onto the field during a pigeon shoot, grab the dead and wounded pigeons, and wring their necks if they're only wounded.
But why shoot the pigeons in the first place?
Wringer by Jerry Spinelli is a story about a nine year old boy named Palmer LaRue. Palmer is nervous about turning the age of 10 because he will become a wringer.
A wringer is a boy that wrings necks of injured pigeons during his towns annual Pigeon Day, where they shoot pigeons.
Palmer does not want to become a wringer, but he wants the neighborhood boys to like him.
This book is overall pretty good.
It used good wording and description, which I really enjoyed.
Overall, I would recommend this book to 6th grade kids.
Subjects like toxic masculinity are barely ever explored in books and I'm so glad this one did, its a really great book by a good author.
This was a good book. It was suspenseful in some parts and heart warming in others. I didn't expect the book to be about what it was about, but i don't regret it. It was good and I enjoyed it.
A bit too weird for me. Didn’t finish.
Mr. Spinelli writes great books!
I thought that it was interesting because of the life chooses Palmer decides to do. I would read this book again.
The WringerJerry SpinnelliThe book is about a kid named Palmer.
Weeks after Pigeon Day, Palmer awakes to pecks on his window.
He talks to Dorthy and they decide to release the pigeon named Nipper.
They don't realize this until it is Pigeon Day. They go to the shootings to see if they could get Nipper back.
The book is just really good and show that Palmer's actions could maybe change Pigeon Day. This book was an amazing book and i liked it a lot.This book is at a lower reading level.
The book is for people 10 to 20 years old.
The fateful day when he will be old enough to become a wringer, one of the boys charged with helping out on the day of the city's great Pigeon Day Shoot, breaking the necks of the innocent birds.
I felt for Palmer's character, and I loved the charming and unique personality of Nipper, who sometimes seemed just as human as the other characters.
And most of all, the ending, like those of Spinelli's other books like "Stargirl" and "The Library Card," is bright with hope, the best thing a book can leave you with.
Wringer by Jerry Spinelli265 pages realistic fiction This book is about a boy named Palmer Who has a love for pigeons.
One day a pigeon came to his house and Palmer gave it food not thinking about what might happen.
on the week before family fest he decided he had to get rid of his pigeon named Nipper.
He had his one friend who knew about him and him and they let Nipper go miles and miles away.
on the day of family fest Palmer found out his friend let Nipper go at the place where they catch them to shoot.
The book starts off with Palmers upcoming tenth birthday and in his town 10 year old boys turn into wringers.
A wringer is someone who break the necks of "wounded pigeons" at the towns Pigeon day shoot.
In a town that murders pigeons Palmer knew this was not going to be a good idea keeping the Pigeon in his house.
I believe that during your read, you can connect with many different character according to your personality and since this was realistic it was easier to make connections with the "real" world.
Before I even started reading this book I had the question what is a wringer.
The book was interesting because it is not what I would usually read.*Spoiler alert* In the book, Wringer, the main character Palmer starts out by telling the reader that he doesn't want to be a wringer.
Palmer learns to do what feels right to him, even if it's the uncommon choice.I had already read the book Jake and Lily by Jerry Spinelli and enjoyed it.
Jerry Spinelli used a very different writing style in the Wringer than in Jake and Lily.
Here you don't have to be a lover or hater of Spinelli's style as I've commented on before; oh yes, it's still there, and the writing is very poetic with dark undertones, but Maniac Magee and Hokey Pokey seem to have those half-unexplained, almost grim plot devices and flow that seems to repel some people.
Spinelli doesn't feel inclined to whack you upside the head with an uber-weepy ending, but he carries the power subtly and releases it magnificently.
I think I've expressed my love for this one enough, so I'll kindly stop typing and boost Jerry Spinelli a little higher on my list of all-time favorite writers.
The book "Wringer" by Jerry Spinelli.
It taught me the definition of a wringer was.
In this case the boy had a job to wring birds neck.
This made me more interested in this book because I do not like birds and I find their living puposeless.
Also it teaches you that you must make your own decisions in life and that if you have a job that you do not like sometimes you have to quit and try to find something that you enjoy doing in stead of doing something because it runs in the family.
