https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184661.The_Third_Option
That being said, I did like the book okay and it read very quickly once I got into it.
For 400 pages the action seemed kind of limited - unlike the last book where I couldn't figure out how they fit so much action into one book.
Again, liked it, but not my favorite political thriller.
Every scene that started with one of them I had to stop and think hard about which one I was dealing with - context almost never helped in the first few pages.
So many names to choose from, why not pick something else!A book for hard core political thriller fans, but probably not all that enticing for anyone else.
(I have no idea why I can do this for a movie but not a book; go figure.)At any rate, for this reason I have never read a Vince Flynn book featuring his series character, Mitch Rapp.
The shoes are not particularly comfortable, but if a female character wants to appear in a book like this, she has to make the necessary sacrifices.In this case, however, the woman walks into a building, and for no reason whatsoever, instead of taking the elevator, she climbs four flights of stairs in her four-inch heels!
I often ask myself what is it that I enjoy about the "Mitch Rapp" series by Vince Flynn.
I guess I just flat out enjoy the simple good versus evil plotting and the predictability of knowing Rapp will win out in the end, no matter how impossible his situation seems.
But first, they must take Rapp out of the equation and do it in such a way that it looks like Kennedy is responsible.
As you can imagine the characters are not the most believable people.
The reader pretty much knows who's who and what their motivations are.
Awesome!! Very well written. This is the closest you'll get to 24. Flew through this and can't wait to start the next one.
No apologies, I'm a Vince Flynn fan.
He rasies hackles in some circles simply when his name is mentioned, but if you'll give him a fair read you might be surprised.
This is a frank story, Mitch Rapp has been sent on an assassination mission, only to be betrayed.
Who ordered it?
and later in the book, who's tying up all those pesky loose ends?
No all the democrats aren't bad guys and all the republicans aren't good guys.
The politics like the violence are frank and no punches pulled.This is a good book, timely and well done.
Abridged. Ugh. I hate it when that's not well displayed. This sort of book doesn't abridge well. It just makes all the tropes that much more obvious & this series has enough trouble with those anyway. Don't get me wrong, it's a fun action series, but that's all it is. There's never a real twist, just the hero doing heroic things & rising from the sewage where he's landed into the presidential rose garden one time after another. Abridging it turns it into a comic book.
After reading Flynn's first three books, American Assassin,Kill Shot and Transfer Of Power, I was looking forward to another tale of non-stop action and thrills.
The Third Option ends leaving the reader "hanging." Flynn is an author that I felt I could count on for edge-of-your-seat suspense and a very satisfying reading experience.
Unfortunately, Flynn let me down big-time in his fourth effort featuring Mitch Rapp.
I'm hoping that this book was just a fluke and that the others in the series will live up to the high expectations I have when I pick up a Vince Flynn book.
This second Mitch Rapp novel has got serious, annoying problems.3rd Option – I did not like this 3rd book in the series.
Anna, who has become Mitch's love interest, is an idiot and gets herself taken by the bad guys.
Bad guy Sen. Hank Clark gets away in the end.
Flynn tries to connect all the people in previous books, like a dumb romance novel.
The strings were going in different directions, then you remembered them hanging out there flapping, tried to weave them back in, encountered some knotty problems, so you just whacked them off and tucked them under, hoping no one would notice?And have I mentioned yet how much I hate the Anna character?
A great addition to the Mitch Rapp series. It was a little hard to follow for a while and I was quite lost, but after a few chapters it started to pick up the pace. In The Third Option Flynn shows us more of his political views, which I found intriguing. I'm guessing that Separation of Power, the next book in the series will pick up where The Third Option left off. I'm taking a short break from the Mitch Rapp series because I've read the first 4 books in a row and I don't want to get burnouts, HAHA.
James Bond would probably kill to get his hands on Mitch Rapp's custom-made leather overcoat.
Bond wouldn't stand a chance against Mitch Rapp, of course.
Mitch is one of the 'dark weapons' of the Security Council.
Off the books, no file (ha!) - think extreme mission impossible scenarios; if caught or killed, there will be complete disavowal of your actions, etc.
Anyone who has read Vince Flynn's books knows better, now don't we?Truly bone chilling is the methodical ransacking of an apartment, two men who were inside for just over an hour.
More like 1.5 stars, but I'll round up because Mitch Rapp is still a favorite character of mine.
This book did not work for me.
(I really wanted to use foul language there.)I don't like Anna.
She is a fragile special snowflake and I don't think she is good enough for Mitch.
Minus 2 stars right there.
Minus 1 star.Finally, it was boring.
I actually put the book down and forgot about it.
Minus 1 star.
I can't abandon Mitchell, though, and gave back a half star for his wit and planning skills.I have the next three books already and I've checked the reviews.
The only reason I didn't give this novel five stars is that a lot of the its plot-lines carry over into the next novel, Separation of Power, so in a lot of ways this felt incomplete by itself. With that caveat, it's still a kick ass spy thriller, and Mitch Rapp is the pinnacle of a kick ass spy.
”Who is a bigger threat to my country, a terrorist ten thousand miles away or the corrupt self-serving politician down the street?”   The greatest generation is dying and there aren’t enough able people with compasses that point true north. Irene Kennedy is one of the rare ones and there are people who would stop at nothing to keep her from taking over the CIA. Mitch Rapp is on his last assignment when he’s betrayed. Bad move. The Iron Man spends the book tracking down every last thread... but
The greatest generation is dying and there aren’t enough able people with compasses that point true north.
Irene Kennedy is one of the rare ones and there are people who would stop at nothing to keep her from taking over the CIA.
Bad move.
The Iron Man spends the book tracking down every last thread...
That made the book less fun and more frustration.
This is the first two book arch storyline and I didn’t appreciate that.
I was going to read the next book anyway but I’d rather a different bad guy and satisfying conclusion to each book.
A really enjoyable fast moving political thriller set in the heart of the American government. Political intrigue at it's most dangerous with Mitch Rapp the only guy able to put things right way his own most lethal methods.
Well, I am so glad that someone recommended this series to me earlier in the year. This one starts off with a bang, as our ultra-secret covert operator Mitch Rapp is set up and left for dead. The rest of the novel reads like a revenge thriller, as he tries to put the pieces together with who could be behind his assassination attempt, only to find out that the lousy bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. would be stupid enough to do anything to cross America's most dangerous man! Not my favorite but I will read the whole series, eventually.
Interesting, fun but Flynn either never met a woman or has the worst love life ever. Not enough action to offset the ponderous and infantile love story.
I believe I've read about all of the Vince Flynn novels. I like to believe that people like Mitch Rapp are out there keeping me safe from anti-american enemies.
It should be noted that virtually all independent ratings for veracity show Fox News to be the least honest and the purveyor of fake news more than anyone other than Donald Trump.
I like Flynn's novels and his protagonist, Mitch Rapp.
There is, at times, a small current of right wingish attitude in some character's comments in the Rapp series but overall Flynn was very even handed when it came to criticism of those in power.
If you are a liberal or a conservative you won't be put off by this (or any of the first three that I've read) Mitch Rapp book.
I love the Mitch Rapp series.
I started with American Assassin, which I found out later is technically a prequel because it was written after the original series that started with Transfer if Power.
So originally The Third Option was book #2 in the series and it is much more suited as a second novel than a fourth.
There wasnt much of a stand alone story, but more background to set up future novels.
With that said, it was still very enjoyable and lives up to the high standards expected of Vince Flynn.
I’m looking forward to reading more about Mitch Rapp and his exploits working with the CIA.
Flynn always delivers well written action scenes with heart pounding prose and his political back stabbing gives this book its 4 star rating.
Even though it's the first thing you and I might think and it's surely something the old guy back at the CIA has surely gone through a thousand times.
Though I don't know how this one was marketed in the US.But these books are 'feel good' books.
I think what Flynn is doing in placing Rapp well within the realms of what really goes on behind the scenes and the clear commentary on US politics more often than not hindering rather than helping and being more about short-term personal gain, than what is good for the country as a whole, in the long term, is really working well.
He is set on letting go of the dark shadowed operations that he is apart of and the shadowy killer that he has become, he wants to live a normal life, he’s done.
Mitch Rapp or otherwise known as Mitch Kruse by people not apart of the Orion team, is coming to his final mission as a CIA operative.
His final mission for the CIA, leads him to Germany with a small team.
Something happened in Germany, Mitch doesn’t know who he can trust on the hill.
He knows he can’t spend his life with her until he can live a more normal life.
I have now read five of his books, four of the Mitch Rapp series and Term Limits a semi-standalone.
Vincent Flynn only wrote 13 Rapp books before he very sadly passed away, so I am drawn between reading them one after the other (which I always want to do) or eking them out so I can saviour them slowly.
I have just introduced Rapp to my wife and she is absolutely 'in love' with him and she has now read two books back to back.The plot involves the usual suspects - US President, Congress, the CIA, a whole bunch of baddies and many more.
The novel deals with Mitch Rapp who is a member of the CIA's highly secret Orion Team.
He's their top assassin.
When the first option of diplomacy and the second option of military force fail, the United States turns to its third option of covert action as a way of dealing with terrorist's attacks.
It is our last option of fighting back, and it usually involves assassination.
Mitch Rapp is on the verge of resigning from the CIA.
He has met the woman of his dreams and wants to live a normal life.
This is certainly the type of guy you want as a friend and not as an enemy.
4.5 starsIn this the 4th Rapp book in the series - Mitch has one more mission in Germany to complete, and then he wants to call it quits and leave this dangerous life behind.
He's fallen for White House correspondent Anna Reilly, (whom we met in Book 3).
Now all he wants to do is settle down with the right woman and live a normal life.
But things don't go right in Germany, and now Mitch thinks his own people may be trying to eliminate him.
gripping, fast, and leaves us wanting more.
A fabulous intense series.
This is the my first "Mitch Rapp" book and I wished I would have started with the first book in the series. Also, the story wasn't wrapped up at the end and now I will need to continue to the read other books in the series to see what happens.
Dark, Intriguing, Deep, Intense, Edge Of Your Seat Ride!!! I Loved It!
He is in love, and wants to get married and knows all to well working as an assassin is hardly the kind of 9 to 5 job most families are raised in.In Germany, Mitch is working with a husband / wife team.
Almost from the get-go Mitch knows something is wrong, that something just doesn't feel right.Things go from wrong to bad when the assassination attempt leaves several people dead, and a mansion on fire.
Aside from that flurry of behind-the-scenes activity, Stansfield and his protege Irene Kennedy, are hard at work trying to find out what went wrong in Germany, how to keep the international backlash from hurting the president, and how to get Mitch Rapp back home safely!Great thriller.

It’s crazy the lengths people go to for a little power, this book show cased that.It’s a good thing that Mitch plans for things to go bad because he needed the plan b this time around. We know he has skills, but the way that Mitch made it back home made things seem really easy. I liked the way that Mitch tried to protect what was important to him, although it may have cost him a burgeoning friendship along the way.The manipulation behind the scenes was crazy! I really hope the main manipulator gets his in the end.
