https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150147.The_Zoo_Story_and_Other_Plays
The wild anti-establishment Jerry had most of the (largely absurdist) lines, but Peter has the final dramatic moment in the play, heh heh.
The guy who played Jerry in the play convinced me to drink a lot with him before the final dress rehearsal, just to see what would happen, its own kind of (stupid) anti-establishment rebellion, and it did sort of heighten everything, make it a little crazier.
In my memory the most dramatic moment of that performance was that the College's Theatre Chair and some other theatre professors showed up at this rehearsal, just to surprise us.
It's the source of one of my favorite lines: "Sometimes a person has to go a very long distance out of his way to come back a short distance correctly."
Performed, bitches.
Despite it's weird absurdity played throughout and the no nonsense of the only two characters based in one setting, it was this that gave it so much more depth and meaning to the human condition.
Jerry can be the archtype for the human desire, the subconsciouss, and that he is in touch with it makes him 'insane'?!
That means 'sane' is a porduct of societal conditioning for the most part...Albee subtely comments on that and got me thinking, "Who am I?" I believe that Jerry is the 'existential hero' in that he constanstantly questions his identity and purpose in life.
داستان باغ وحش که عنوان اصلی اش "پیتر و جری"ست، عمدتن در مورد تنهایی، جداافتادگی، بی ارتباطی اجتماعی و شرایط غیر انسانی جهان تجاری و مدرن است.
جری که دنبال یک هم صحبت است، از آرامش و سکوت پیتر استفاده می کند تا داستان "جری و سگ" و علت رفتنش به باغ وحش را تعریف کند.
وقتی پیتر می گوید دیگر باید به خانه برود، جری سعی می کند او را از نیمکت بیرون براند، طوری که پیتر وادار شود برای حفظ فضای خود بجنگد، عصبی شود و...
I saw "Zoo Story" for the first time as part of "At Home At The Zoo" at ACT in San Francisco, and immediately went to the original script to look up the (very few) changes.
On the one hand it benefits greatly from and becomes a richer play for the prelude of "Homelife" which constitutes the first Act of "At Home At The Zoo." On the other, there are elements of "Homelife" metaphorically repeated in "Zoo Story," which leaves a feeling of both redundancy and fatalism, and makes the themes of the play reveal themselves clunkily - though the play itself is never awkward.
Whenever I finish an existential work such as Zoo Story, my first thought is That was it?
It isn't until after I finish them that I start to realize the absolute lack of plot actually develops the meaning of the works.
That's why I love existential literature and absurd theatre: you don't actually know what it's about until you look at it in retrospect.
The "plot" of this play is two guys sitting on a bench.
See, I told you it's pretty devoid of a story.
If you, like I, read Waiting for Godot and loved it, this should be pretty enjoyable.
read this one years ago.
two guys meet at a park bench.
it's personal.
i think things like this happen all the time, on-line?yeah, you betcha, like on the cat-walk, yeah, the cat-walk...this personal need for speed....personalpersonalpersonalpersonalpersonalpersonalpersonalpersonalpersonalpersonal....kneeeeeeed.
for i dunno, perpetual motion, perpetual emotion....as in zoo story...why the kaaa-nife?well...for the kneed for personal...you gotta wonder, all the in-you-face, this that and the other....is that like the knife?
yeah, i think it is.
i think that bizzz is the same kind of thing that the kaaa-nife signifies in zoo story.high five.come on come on come on come on come on, now touch!
The Zoo Story is definitely the most potent play in this collection, explicit in a very subtle way, but the collection as such is fairly lackluster: while The Sandbox and The Death of Bessie Smith seem more of straight-forward, not-very-inspired sketches than full-pledged, stand-alone plays, The American Dream just does not hit the mark for me. Albee is quite literal at times, which either offends me or delights me, there seems to be nothing in between. Having that said, I should probably revisit Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, a play of his I seemed to have enjoyed the best.
I dig Albee but this play which brought him to fame doesn't really feel like it holds up today.
Sure, the theme of the individual facing a great existentialist dillema and feeling isolated even in an urban setting still permeates contemporary literature and film.
And Zoo Story might have been moving and influential when it was first released.However, looking back it feels like Albee was young and just got finished reading the works of Camus.Still, great one act with a pretty amazing(and famous) monologue about a man and a dog...but still even that sounds all too close and familiar to...lets say...L'Etranger anyone?
Yet another great work form Albee. I was led to believe this is about beastiality and while there are disturbing notes-- Jerry does not stop mentioning the Dog's errection-- there is no actual animal sex. No, the work is perhaps far more disturbing; it is another story of the interplay between humans, mind games, manipulation, and what exactly is true and what is false (is it that easily defined?) A wonderful play, Albee's first. If you enjoyed Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, this is for you!
This was the first play that I directed at the university level.
It was a fun experiment, and I was rather pleased with the result.
As far as the text goes, I think that this script is pretty solid.
It has a lot of room for interpretation, crazy characters, and lengthy (16 page?) monologues.
This is a good play for a director who doesn't have a large actor pool to choose from, because it's a 2 person cast.
If you enjoy reading plays and like crazy people and dark comedy, you'll enjoy this.
Albee used to be one of my all-time favourite dramatists--though I'm starting, now (at 25), to question my age-old admiration.I've long ago read all the other works but Malcolm, which was dreadfully terrible.Don't see Malcolm, don't read Malcolm. It's trash.I can't even imagine what James Purdy's novel is like...clumsy words picked out and strung up from a yicky heap, more than likely.
Perhaps Albee's best work, and what makes it even more amazing is that it was his first play ever written. It is one thinkg to read it, it is another to see it performed (as most plays usually are), but this one-act whopper of a show is deep, powerful, and will stick with you long after reading or watching it perform. See it, read it, hell act in it, it is worth the time.
This absurdist play has always haunted me, but only in written form. The sole production I saw of the play was in college, with two of the worst actors imaginable stumbling over Albee's script for thirty minutes. If anyone can recommend a film version, that would be aces.
I've never had any use for Albee. His idea of "revelation" always seems to be that there are actually people who don't live "idealized" (by some idealized standard) lives. Profoundly american, and I don't mean that as a compliment.
How absurd this one-act play is! A play that shows you the ailments if today's world with its alienation, homosexuality, void, nothingness, and deteriorartion! I loved its absurdity.. though Albee is such a pervert actually!!
I saw this first performed my freshman year of college (my friend played Jerry...perhaps a little too well) and have loved it ever since. It's essentially the kind of play my 14 year old self wanted desperately to write but me at 26 can still love.
the sandbox is what my undergraduate thesis about. it is, in my opinion, a combination of realism and surrealism play. the 13-minute play is very short play indeed but it is about the gap existed between two generation. the generation of 19th C and 20th C.
strange story but it really affected me deeply .. I liked it .. I feel so sorry that he killed himself at the end .. it's so unfair that a smart and an educated man like him lives such a poor life, he deserves a better life
Albee does scary really good.
My favorite play. Absolutely amazing. Character driven, suspenseful, and overall a great journey.
Yikes. I love Albee.
I had to read this play for a drama class. I found it incredibly engaging. The characters were so clearly developed and distinguished. I really enjoyed this play and would highly recommend it.
Thanks for the recommendation, Andrea. I really enjoyed it.
One of my favorite plays, Albee is a genius.
Going to see this on stage in a few days. Will write review afterwards.Grade: B+
I give 5 stars just for The Zoo Story. It's marvelous.
You might have to appreciate theatre of the absurd in order to enjoy this play. Otherwise, simply imagine Robin Williams as one of the actors, and you'll be alright.
Read it and used it as my final assignment as an undergrad student. Had to go back many times to really understand it. . . :) Love the ending!
