https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8204005-love-unscripted
Sure, I recognized from the start the simplistic writing, the stilted dialogue, the tendency to get comma placement wrong, and the author's story-crushing tendency to list everything her protagonist does, but I thought, "Hey, it's no worse than some of the other books I've read." How could I have been so wrong?First complaint; it's just too damn long.
Or any personality at all, come to think of it....Anyway, it isn't until Taryn and Ryan meet that things go from mildly bad to "oh, my god, stop.
Obviously, this is the part in the book where the author attempts to make her readers swoon over how good Ryan is with children while simultaneously making Ryan more obsessed with Taryn for her obvious knack with children.
'cuz I want you more than air right now.'" ~Ryan  I loved that the book dealt with pretty much every situation a couple in their position (big-time romantic hero lead movie star + regular girl) would have to deal with in real life: dealing with tabloids printing lies, being followed by rabid fans, cameras, paparazzi literally  everywhere , crazy obsessed stalkers, feelings of jealousy (dealing with him having to kiss hot actresses for his movies), invasion of privacy, the importance of staying grounded and having a close knit family, being able to trust each other, dealing with constant separation (shooting schedules), etc...
There was really no character development for either Taryn or Ryan, which I think really was the catalyst for the story feeling so unfulfilling to me.
Taryn and Ryan were woven into a co-dependent relationship where neither one of them were willing to admit that something had to give, but somehow, all the distrust was wrapped up with an engagement ring… Maybe the sequel will address some of these issues, but I don’t know that I’d be willing to invest the time into seeing it through.Update: I actually reread this book again, thinking I had misjudged it.
This is similar to the dialogue throughout the eternally long book:Ryan: Good Morning, my love!
Yes, I would love a cup of coffee...are you really talking to me?Ryan: It's just so hard...will you really give up your life for my undeserving self?Taryn: Darling, how could you ever doubt me?
Let's go to the park and feed the ducks!Ryan: Let me hold the door for you, Oh almighty goddess!!!Taryn: Thanks!
I love your compliments!There's not much else to say.
I gave the book two stars.
If Ms. Reber can get away with this crap then I'll be the next Stephanie Meyer.They should do a sketch on this with Zooey Deschanel as Taryn and Bill Hader as Ryan.
I have never felt so let down by reviews and I'm still struggling to understand the love for this book.
It was torture, but I felt like it wouldn't be fair to write a review, to warn my friends unless I saw the book through.
I could overlook it once or twice but this is how they spoke throughout the book.As slow as the book progressed, there were events in the story that were so rushed, and sloppy that I actually had to go back thinking I accidentally skipped over pages.

I'm a guy who never writes reviews, nor do I read Romantic or erotic novels.
When I finished the last book in the series, I wanted more....Next read pointed to Love Unscripted, so I purchased it.
I was so wrapped in the characters, I couldn't put this book down.
This book is so well written, characters so real, and emotional!
I'm not an emotional guy mind you, I don't cry during movies or while reading books.
geeeshThis book has made me a fan and is a new favorite!
I'm anxiously waiting for the second book and the movie (in the works).Just my thoughts.....
I think I'm going to put this book on the shelf for the time being. I'm at 30% and having a difficult time staying focused or interested in the story. I think this is one of those books that work when it's cold outside, you're snuggled in a blanket, and in the mood for a long, well written, but drawn-out story. That's not the mood I'm in right now.
Love Unscripted by Tina Reber is one of the BEST books I have ever read.
In my opinion, when reading an amazing book or watching a fantastic movie, the reader/audience "becomes" the character.
(You name it!) Taryn and Ryan are authentic, relatable, amazing characters.
Ryan isn’t the character you’d expect a young, handsome, millionaire, movie star to be.
How can you say a novel is relatable when the plot is based on the challenges of dating a movie star?
Love Unscripted isn’t a young adult book.
I can’t wait to see what the future holds for Taryn and Ryan!I gave Love Unscripted by Tina Reber 5 STARS.
I'm looking forward to the second book. I did have a little issue with Ryan (won't spoil), but he redeemed himself at the end. :)
Review posted on My Secret Romance MERCY! This is how a romance novel should be written!What a refreshing read! Love Unscripted is not a lust at first sight romance story. And thank goodness for that! There are too many of those reads out there.Nothing comes easy in life. Anything worth having is worth fighting for. The love Ryan and Taryn share is definitely worth fighting for and anyone could see that. Love Unscripted is sexy and addicting! There's a thick aura of sensuality surrounding the st
Ryan and Taryn are so madly in love with each other that it's beautiful to read.
While I do love my lustful erotic reads, it's so welcoming to find a book where characters have to work through realistic struggles, not just one time, but time and time again.
I find that there aren't too many romance novels out there written like Love Unscripted, which makes Tina Reber stand out amount authors.This is not a quick and fast read.
Tina Reber is a new favorite author for me and I cannot wait to read Love Unrehearsed.
Read more of my reviews and ramblings at Ana's Attic Sexy TalesReview of 2nd reading, one year later: First thing you need to know about Love Unscripted by Tina Reber, besides that I absolutely loved it even more the second time, is that it is L-O-N-G.
Taryn’s friends.-The length of the book allowed Tina to tell every little detail, and I loved them all.-The slow warmup to love.-Taryn’s insecurities were so real, I would have felt all the same things.Things I wish happened: (I couldn’t find a dislike)-I wish Ryan would have said “screw you” to his publicist and everyone else and screamed to the world how in love he was.-I wish there was some more hot sex.
I love how she shows this side of being a celebrity.Taryn is a smart business woman who likes her quiet life, and she’s been burned in relationships so she’s a little standoffish when it comes to men.
I loved watching Taryn and Ryan struggle, it was so emotional.
What I loved the most though is how Taryn treats Ryan like a person, not a celebrity.
There is a scene where Ryan burps and I love her reaction.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves a good romance.
This book was long...I mean wayyyyyyyyy too long for the storyline...It was hard for me to get into and the excessive use or words killed it for me.Taryn was sooooo annoying at times...   Ryan
Every character was either unlikable from the start or just became that way as the story unfolded.Oh, and there's this kind of stuff: (totally paraphrased)We went into the bathroom, which was blue and the wallpaper had pink flowers and my toothbrush was on the counter and Ryan started the water in the shower and he waited for it to get warm and then when it did he got in and then I stood there and watched him for a minute because he was so glorious and hot and then I got in too and then he shampooed my hair and rinsed it, not once, but twice, and then he used my soap that smelled like flowers to wash my body and then I shampooed him and then I washed him and then I blew him and then we got out and he went down on me on the bathroom counter.
This book is so ridiculously long that it made my head hurt trying to get halfway through it.
I don't want to know about these characters daily routines.
I don't want to know that he has to go to the bathroom and that he is shy about it.
Ugh. Every time I would think this is it, I'm going to finish the book today, I would find something else to read or do - like my Friday Night Lights episode binges.
So, basically what I'm trying to say here is, this book really didn't work for me.
Oh, it pains me to give this book only 2.5 stars.
I would rate the first half of the book 5 stars.
The tension, romance, banter, playfulness of Ryan and Taryn were so believable and honest.
I loved it and thought I'd found a new 5 star read.
The book went MAJORLY downhill from there.
NO romance existed in the second half of the book except at the very end which was very abrupt and left me just feeling irritated.
This book should have easily been condensed into a 350-400 page story and resolved itself w/a HEA.
OMG, I'm completely and utterly drained...
the last few hours of this book has torn my heart to shreds!!
I need time to recover here.
Review to follow...
just know, it was good.
"Taryn Mitchell," he said, looking me in the eyes.
With all my heart." I felt all the blood rush from my body and surge right into my chest.
All this time I waited for a man to say those words to me and mean it, and now I was hearing them from the one person I had hoped would say them.I gazed into his eyes a
This was a beautiful romance between two unlikely people, a small town girl, who was a no one in particular, and a big time someone, a famous movie star, who was every girl's dream.
How they met, fell in love, and made it work was nothing more than amazing!!Taryn Mitchell was a 27 year old girl from Seaport, Rhode Island, who owned an ran a pub she inherited from her grandfather, and her parents who recently died in a car accident.
Ryan and Taryn are truly made for each other, however, it seems that everyone else wants to keep them apart.
DNF. I was hoping for another incredible book like How to Kill a Rock Star, but I'm not getting the same vibe. HTK was incredible, this one is just...boring.The main character seems like a bit of a contradiction. He's supposed to be shy, yet he exclaims, snickers and smirks a lot...
This started out slow, got okay and got slow again.
Honestly I liked the characters all of them; Ryan, Taryn and her friends.
They weren't bad, the story wasn't bad, it just wasn't for me.
It was long, too long in my opinion.
Too much filler where it could have been easily wrapped up in a sentence or two not numerous pages.
I lost track of the story and started counting how many were on a page and then in a paragraph...were they actually that excited all the time?I understand there are books not everyone will agree on.
I know a lot of people are really loving this series.
And I can understand why, the idea behind this book is appealing.
What woman doesn't fantasise about meeting their favourite Hollywood crush and having them fall madly in love with them!
SWOON!But while I really wanted to like the book and it did have potential, the author just waffled on and on!
This book could have easily been 200 pages shorter and it would have been the better for it.
Eventually the book went form being exciting and romantic to being something that I just wanted to hurry up and finish.
Tina Reber pens a really heartbreaking and heart-pounding 659pg play-by-play story about what's it's like to fall in love with a celebrity and exactly what it takes to get through this kind of relationship obstacle.I don't know how many times I would fantasize about meeting my favorite star, and I while I know I'd be a bubbling idiot, it was such a blast to able to see it captured through the eyes of these characters.Ryan and Taryn are the sweetest thing.
As the story unfolds we get an everyday set-up to how a star and a normal girl makes it in this kind of lifestyle.These two will show you how it gets done!I also loved Taryn's friends.
Funny story, heard such good things about this book but not able to get it on nook.... I totally hijacked my husbands kindle fire and bought it on there lol...Anyways, I loved Taryn and Ryan's love story, cannot wait for the second one!
The two-page scene where Taryn was FURIOUS with Ryan to the point of hanging up on him and ignoring him honestly boosted the rating.
I want to just like it, but it's pissing me off!!And I'm still determined to finish this book.
We'll see...Still while reading, just a little later:I CONSTANTLY want to yell at these charactersAdd "sniffle" to the list of words that the author needs to stop using.Taryn has TERRIBLE taste in men, in the past.
Actual rating: 4.5 starsI loved it.
I loved this series so much.. need to do a re-read soon.
Although why every romance novel's heroine has to be tragedy stricken is beyond me, but well , our Taryn has faced a lot of hardships in life and has become reclusive.That is ,obviously till she meets our gorgeous,warm hearted, kind , loyal hero Ryan christensen , who is also a very famous hollywood heart throbe , in the book.
Even though the book had a very attention grasping start , very natural dialogues, in the first few chapters, somewhere in the middle the author lost track of the story and just seemed to have dragged it on another 300 pages just for the heck of it.
Loved this story.It was hard to put this book down. Ryan Christensen is definitely on my list of fantasy boyfriends.There are moments where you feel your stomach is tied up in knots.I love it when the story takes it's time to before the main characters get together. Such a great buildup!I highly recommend this series.There are only two books. I wish it was a trilogy, but still I loved it!
Absolutely Love this story. The love story is one of those fairy tales we all dream of. I'm completely in love with Ryan! I wish I could have one of my very own. Can't wait for the sequel to come out! Hurry up and finish already Tina!!!!!!!
Ryan seems to be largely modeled after Robert Pattinson, though a change in eye and hair color has been applied, but other characteristics readily available online for this individual remain.It seems apparent that the author has perhaps read one too many (real people) fan fictions about a famous actor falling for a small-town girl next door Mary Sue.I have read fan fictions with this scenario that were much better done than this book.
Taryn, a tavern owner in a small town in Rhode Island, meets Ryan, a hot, famous movie star, when he's fleeing from fans and happens to run into her door to hide.
Of course, with Ryan being a hot, famous movie star, their relationship is far from smooth sailing.
