https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134798.Capitalism_Socialism_and_Democracy

Comment:In the end it will be seen that the greatest enemy of capitalism was always democracy, i.e. the will of the people.
Once the people turn anti-capitalistic, under the influence of a disaffected intelligencia, there is absolutely nothing that can stand against them.
Schumpeter at one and the same time believes that Capitalism is the most adequate description of economic reality and that it is doomed.
- What Capitalism cannot deliver will be discovered, or created, somewhere else.
Eventually, one of these discoveries or creations will end the Capitalist era.
This is a classic of economics and of entrepreneurship that lots of people have read in their undergraduate economics or business classes.
It is worth reading to get the full perspective of Schumpeter's view of how the economy works.
This is perhaps the most articulate statement on the role of of "creative destruction" and innovation as critical to the success of capitalism.
Schumpeter's thinking on innovation and entrepreneurship has fared better over time than his positive views on socialism, although I am still not sure of his real tone.
It shows how democracy is a vast conspiracy, elections are fraudulent, individual votes are useless, and human nature is corrupt.
Heavily inspired by Marx and especially his theory of history, as much a sociological as an economic text, and broad-ranging in its analysis of the relationship between capital and society, it's a difficult book to pin down, and clearly the product of a remarkable thinker.The question-- which all prophetic works beg-- is why Schumpeter's vision hasn't come to life.
Rather than paving the way for a humane socialism, we have been left with an especially cruel form of neoliberal capitalism.I'd also like to question his views on the role of intellectuals.
And his rather narrow view of what socialism is.
Schumpeter is best remembered for having coined the term "creative destruction" a process well understood today whereby entire industries and the jobs that go with them are continually rendered obsolete as new products, new technologies, new ways to make money emerge.
With the benefit of hindsight I'm perhaps being unfair in judging the book on its merits, since Schumpeter could not have foreseen the calamitous outcome of the Soviet "planned economy".
Nor could he have foreseen today's dilemma in America where a few billionaires have become so powerful that they are able to subvert the democratic process (ref.
Unlike most economists he defends capitalism warts-and-all: He fully recognizes that we have never lived in anything like a perfectly-competitive efficient market, and goes on to say that we wouldn't even want to in the first place.
No, a depression is a mistake, an error that can be corrected relatively easily by sound policy.And then near the end of the book he goes completely off the deep end, going on a long rant about how it is "obvious" that rich people are superior beings and anyone who would doubt this is foolish or evil.
It is a great read, especially for those interested in the political economy.
It is Schumpeter’s best book, which is famous for popularising his acclaimed theory on capitalism, "creative destruction".
Definitely not a light read, it took me forever to finish.
But it was worth the read.
By and large Schumpeter agrees with Karl Marx that socialism will ultimately follow after capitalism but they differ fundamentally on how that will come about.
Karl Marx believed that socialism would come at the behest of the proletariat through revolutions, whereas Schumpeter believes that capitalism by its very nature of creative destruction, it will cause its own destruction.
Schumpeter must have been a really shitty human being to hang out with. And his dating profile must have been intolerable to even read. Schumpeter does a better take-down of socialism and Marx than Hayek or Von Mises, but never gets into any libertarian sounding nonsense and his shtick about capitalism is the best pitch I've heard for it in awhile. Also for a book about economics, it's written in like, the most bitchy tone.
I got to read selective parts of this book and thought the analysis of Marxist thought was incredibly insightful and Schumpeter's prediction of capitalism's end compellingly argued. Particularly his analysis of Democracy as a mode of self-determination both politically and economically leads to the argument that it is inseparable from socialism. He is not a fan of this outcome, but is inclined to give credit to the power of this motive in determining systems of governing and economics.
Excellent. An Austrian economist I can read and agree with most of the time. One of the best analysts since Weber.
For someone who criticizes others for being prolix, he sure can ramble. Visionary economic foresight though.
Partially outdated, partially all over the place, partially just crazy, the book is nonetheless a fascinating read, since Schumpeter is such a unique thinker, even though the book's value as a lasting contribution - outside of the tremendously important notion of "creative destruction" (which seems to have achieved a life of its own) - to the field of economics is dubious.The chapter on democracy, I should say, contains a brilliant and almost entirely distinct analysis on democracy, which is almost Machiavellian in its exposé of the power-hungry nature of politics.
Having only negligible familiarity with Marx’s work, and that from secondary sources, the first part was—to me—irrelevant, but I guess serves as an introduction and disclaimer of sorts.The second part about capitalism, on the other hand, assuming some familiarity with classical economics, appears very interesting and I assume to a large extent still original to most readers: the near-universal absence of perfect competition, the desirability of mono- and oligopolies for economic growth and efficiency, the dissipation of attentive proprietors through diluted ownership, the intellectuals’ critique of capitalism and bourgeoisie as their sole raison d’être and their solicitation of all non-bourgeois elements of society, the gradual irrelevance of entrepreneurship, and the “automation” and on-demand production of research and innovation.

He argued that innovation and technological change comes from entrepreneurs, and that this is driven by large companies that have the capital to invest in R&D.
He argued that innovation creates temporary monopolies that were necessary to incentivize firms to develop new products and processes.
Schumpeter argues in his book that capitalism's demise will not come from a violent uprising similar to those of least capitalist countries as predicted by Karl Marx but rather it would collapse from corporatism where large companies influence political decision to place restrictions on entrepreneurship.
A tough book, but a vitally important book for understanding the subtle relationships between capitalism, socialism and democracy, especially in its explanation of how capitalism works through 'creative destruction'.
Originally published in 1942, 1947 and 1950, this book still has wide applications for today, especially those sections dealing with entrepreneurship, central planning, and democratic processes.
But beware, the points Schumpeter makes in this book are extremely subtle, and one cannot necessarily extract his true perspective with a cursory reading.
Schumpeter demands focused attention and critical thinking, and many of his important ideas must be extrapolated from between the lines.
- His writing style is a little tough to engage with at times, but his astute and eye-opening analysis of the progression of capitalism certainly made this book worth reading. The ouline of socialism with its somewhat arduous details, while necessary to appeal to his audience, was a bit... dull. I guess that the reality of a potentially effective socialism just isn't very romantic. All in all, worth the read.
Famous for two things, creative destruction and the theory of democratic elitism. Most of the work is about socialism, its history and why he thought it would triumph over capitalism. His democratic elitism, which I used for a paper, is a lot like Woodrow Wilson's idea of presidential leadership, of the will of the people being incoherent and contradictory, and the necessity of elites to present coherent visions of leadership through open competition.
The man can turn a phrase. Very enjoyable, though the economics content is rather minimal beyond Chapter 8. After wrestling with the question over the past few months, I have to disagree with McCraw's thesis that this was a satire. And with that, the logic on the end of capitalism seems weak. Most of my colleagues loved reading this, but certainly not all.
Chapters 21 and 22. I do really like his two conceptions of democracy. Perhaps a little too pessimistic when it comes to the stupidity of the population, especially in political matter. Chapter 22 was great, and I think the role of leadership in a democracy is too often overlooked. Conception of democracy as the power struggle between the political elite very interesting.
Great book.I think that this is "must read" book for everybody who is interested in the perspectives of capitalism and socialism and their connections with democracy. The book was published in the middle of XX century but it is still very valid for our time.
Introduction--Capitalism, Socialism and DemocracyPrefaces and Comments on Later Developments:Preface to the First Edition, 1942Preface to the Second Edition, 1946Preface to the Third Edition, 1949The March into SocialismNotesIndex
A hard book, will need to reread it in the future....slower!
An interesting exploration of how Schumpeter tried to reconcile socialism and democracy. Like Marx, the trends he identified did not last ten years. He thought they might outlive the C20th.
I didn't read the whole book; i enjoyed what i read, although the language was quiet difficult for me. . .
Essential book
This process leads to economic development at the cost of some hardship such as unemployment for those who use the inferior process or resources.
Schumpeter argues that as long as the process continuously increases economic development, the social agitation is acceptable.
Only when social agitation, such as unemployment, interferes with economic development is it unacceptable.
Socialism can be democratic or not, but as history shows that it can survive via controlling peoples’ freedoms of speech and removing agitators of the system.
The democratic system may actually remove from the elections the people who can best lead the nation.
And it is mostly such from an economic point of view, despite Schumpeter's slight efforts to touch a bit on history, sociology and psychology.Not being an economist myself, I found the book hard to read, yet, once one grasps Schumpeter's language and point of view, it becomes interesting.
But I cannot deny the economics genius behind it - Schumpeter grasps many of the problems of capitalism (some of which I have not thought previously of) from a capitalist point of view, which was honestly interesting to me.
One such point is that society, having noted the defects of capitalism, would undeniably turn solely to socialism.
This is a difficult book to explain concisely with out an understanding of when it was written and the prevailing economic theories and thought of the time.
The didactic several chapters on socialism is largely pointless now given the many case studies that prove the point better.
There are some key points that can be synthesized and used to understand the trajectory that economic history is likely to take.
I do wonder that if Schumpter had lived to see what came after WW2's war economy transition, would he have agreed with all of what trends he saw when this was written, or would he have found fault with them.
