https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232109.The_Mouse_and_the_Motorcycle
The local library, where my grandmother would take me for story time when I was a little girl, had very high ceilings with crown molding all the way around the top.
Listening to the audiobook for the first time with my daughters, I was happy to see that they seemed to enjoy all of Ralph and Keith's adventures as well.
The timing was just right to finish it on the way there, listening to another story on the return trip.This book tells the story of a young boy that is staying at a hotel with his parents.
Ralph is the young "boy" mouse, struggling to stay out of trouble as he yearns for adventure.
The Mouse and the Motorcycle BLEW MY MIND when I was about 8 years old.
That...is...AWESOME!" My dad's a mechanic, so naturally I worried about things like access to the appropriate-sized tools and where the mouse would find parts for the bike, I mean, it's soooo small!
So you can see, my own personal experiences ratcheted up the tension of this otherwise thrilling adventure in which a boy visiting a hotel gives the gift of a toy motorcycle to an adventurous mouse named Ralph.
He's a bit of a hooligan, that Ralph, and he nearly looses the bike.
The Mouse and the Motorcycle instantly became a personal favorite and made me an even more avid reader.
I haven't watched this movie since I was in fifth grade when my teacher showed The Motorcycle and the Mouse movie to the class and years later to stumbled upon the book was definitely a treat.
It's a charming read with a super charismatic mouse and a kind little boy named Keith.
Their love for motorcycles and automobiles is the glue to their special friendship.
Ralph's magic ability to operate a toy motorcycle with saying pb-pb-h-h-h sounds is awe-inspiring.
When Ralph travels the halls of Mountain View Inn- you can expect adventure, humor, and fun for kids (and adults).
I highly recommend this wonderful book!
This, the underrated, overlooked and oft forgotten prequel to Runaway Ralph and Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenence, tells the tail (yes I did!) of one Ralph S.
Praised in France for its controversial use of alcoholism in mice and free-spirited sexuality, the book received numerous awards including the prestigious Caldecott Medal.
It was later the basis for the film Motorcycle Diaries, for which it was rumored method actor Gael Garcia Bernal spent months preparing for his role as Ralph only to have the role changed to a more believable, though less interesting, Che Guevara.
It makes me wary to reread the rest of the series even though the plots of those next two are muddled beyond belief in me noggin’.From the First Mate:I don’t remember ever reading The Mouse and the Motorcycle as a child.
In fact, I think I still have that well read copy in storage.Listening to an audiobook version of The Mouse and the Motorcycle leaves me with an odd thought.
My good memories of Runaway Ralph are still intact (I can convince myself that he’s a very different character in the later book), and I just didn’t get enough out of The Mouse and the Motorcycle to ever want to read it again.
♥ A childhood book that I just love to no end ♥
This is a creative albeit bizarre little novel, a funny story with lovable characters and an interesting premise.
Well this book took me a while to read, it's heavy reading, but I did get through it. This mouse get's a rippin' bike and proceeds to kick ass. Lot's of foolin' around. I do think he needed some sort of biker babe for the back seat, and maybe have some ties to a biker gang of woverines. The mouse didn't have any cool tatoos either. All in all a pretty good read.
No telling how many time I read this book when I was a kid. One of the top ten of my childhood!
As a child Beverly Cleary was my favorite author.
For some reason I just really loved this one.
My mother collected mouse figurines when I was a child, so in a way, I just thought I was so cool being able to share this story with my mom about a mouse who was so intrigued by a toy motorcycle.
I even convinced my mom to let me have a pet mouse in which I named Ralph.
Secretly I wished he would ride a motorcycle...
but deep down I knew that wasn't going to happen, but a child can dream right?
I thought that it was nice of Keith to let Ralph have his motorcycle because it was his favorite toy.I loved the helmet Keith made for Ralph out of a ping pong ball. Ralph loved his crash helmet.This book reminds me of Stuart Little.
So appealing, so delightful, and yet when you think about it, deeply weird.
Read this aloud to the kids and they loved it.
Remember just loving this when I was a kid as well .
Do love the quaint nature of the story and characters and wish more current chapter books for kids were written like this instead of featuring street smart kids from dysfunctional families.
Childhood should be a time to be immersed books like Charlotte's Web, Homer Price, and Mouse and the Motorcycle.
Loved that my library copy was the 1965 edition and had the lovely library book smell.
Maybe I should add that fifth star for the trip back to my childhood this book gave me .
The book is about a young mouse named Ralph.
He lives in a hotel with his mother and two younger siblings.
He wants to explore the hotel more but his mother will not let him.
Then one day a boy name Keith checks in at the hotel and both of their lives change.
Both Keith and Ralph can both understand each other and Keith lets Ralph drive his mouse sized motorcycle.
Whether it is helping to feed Ralph and his family, or finding medicine for Keith.
The two main characters are Keith and Ralph.
Ralph is very similar to Keith.
"The Mouse and the Motorcycle" is a book about a mouse named Ralph who lives in a hotel.
One day a family come into the apartment where Ralph lives.
One boy has some toy cars and one is a motorcycle.
When the family is gone Ralph decides to take the motorcycle for a ride.
Ralph ends up falling into a wastebasket.
When the family comes back the child finds Ralph.
Later in the book Ralph loses the motorcylce and the child becomes ill.
You have to read the book to see what happens next.
I recommend this book for young adults who like adventure and fiction.
This is a good book for kids and parents too. It engages kids imagination. My son liked the motorcycle and the adventure. We read this book together althought mostly he read it to me and it had good vocabulary and a pretty good pace. He is a first grader but reads at third grade level and it was a good level for him. We are both ready to read the second one. He hopes the second one is similar to this one.
Mouse buddy + toy motorcycle = Awesome!
Ezra's review "I really like the book because it was pretty cool that a mouse got to ride a motorcycle. And then in the end actually get to keep one. My favorite part was probably when he didn't know what a peanut butter sandwich was. I like Ralph a lot. He's my favorite character. It was medium hard. 7 or 8 year olds should read this because a mouse gets to ride a motorcycle and I think that's pretty cool."
“The Mouse and the Motorcycle” was a fun book to read.
This book is about a mouse named Ralph who lives in room 215 of an old hotel.
Ralph had to prove to the boy that they can be friends again and make everything better before the boy leaves the hotel.
Ralph has many challenges that he fights through to make things better for him and his family.
The story grows bigger and Ralph goes out of the room and all around the hotel.
It shows how you can lose something that means alot to you but if you do whats right you can fix it and even make the situation better.
My girlfriend works in a used bookstore.
One of the primary duties of her work requires the buying of books brought in.
Her boss is an ex computer programmer and wrote a nifty program/algorithm that cross references book purchasing on Amazon and E Bay. If the book in question is ranked over a certain number then they will purchase said book(s).
My girlfriend has first cracks at all books that come into the store.
One of the gifts from her was a collection of titles with a...certain theme.
Books with Ralph in the title.
Very age appropriate book about adventure, sacrifice and growing up.
This is a Beverly Cleary book so you know it is excellent, but this book is in a whole other league from Ramona and Henry because of the fantasy aspect.
We have ALL played with cars/motorcycles/etc at one point in our lives, and haven't we all daydreamed of the vehicles magically propelling themselves?
Also typing this it just occurred to me that had Ralph met up with Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH, perhaps the outcome would have been different?
Then again the Rats of NIMH harnessed the power of electricity whereas the motorcycle is powered by well, I won't give that away, you'll have to read it!RODENT POWER!
Review from an 8-year-old:"This book is about a mouse and a motorcycle that he rides when he goes out of a mouse-hole and onto a dresser.
He thinks to himself, 'I bet I can ride that,' and later on he can.
The motorcycle belongs to a boy named Keith.
Keith and the mouse (Ralph) become friends.
It is interesting because Keith and the mice can talk to each other but no one else can understand mouse talk.
My favorite part is when Ralph has to get a pill for Keith, who gets a fever.I would give this book 6 stars- the best!"7/22/13
This is the first chapter book that I read aloud to my oldest son.
He absolutely loved it!
I had read this as a child but it had been so long all I remembered was that Ralph rode the motorcycle and that he had a cute little helmet.
I'm glad that such a sweet little story was Logan's introduction to chapter books.
I mean you can't really go wrong with Beverly Cleary.
I plan for us to take on some Roald Dahl next so he is going to have high expectations of books when he starts reading anything longer than Dr. Seuss on his own.
A childhood favorite revisited. It's a simple story, free of extraneous threads and unneeded distractions, and portrays its characters in small scenes that give the reader enough space to let his imagination wander. Maybe I'm a cynic, but a tale this direct would probably have a hard time being published now.
Little outdated, but I think Jovan enjoyed it.
This book was on my wishlist - how could I resist? My friend saw it and gifted it to me for my birthday. What an adorable mouse Ralph is! I can understand why this story has captivated generations of children. I am looking forward to reading the next two in the adventures of Ralph. Here is where a writer knows how to spin a character -in Ralph, we have at once a naughty, curious, yet fun-loving, adventurous and caring mouse.
she wrote a book in the series, then went off to work on something else, and then came back - sometimes decades after the first book - to write another.Consider, the first book in the Ramona series was written in 1955.
But we just went to a wedding, and Liz suggested listening to a kids book as the trip was going to be two hours there, and two hours back.
There's always the next trip...)I thought I'd get a kid review out of this, but it got late and everybody fell asleep except for me and Liz. I came pretty close, too.It may seem petty of me, and I liked the book...
I can't wait to read it again with our girls!July 2013 update: We finally got around to this one.
The CD was a bit garbled in places, so I read the last few pages from the paperback book (with ISBN 0380709244) that I'd brought along just for that purpose.
Overall, I thought it was a charming tale and it was good timing that we read it now, since it takes place right before the Fourth of July.
I think I'd like to read the next two books in the series with our girls, too.
I just finished reading this to my class. Ralph is great. He's an underestimated juvenile mouse who gives a heroic and inspirational (for 4th graders, age or mentality) performance. It was fun to read it to the class because I could show off some motorcycle knowledge and make pbb, ppb, pbb sounds when Ralph rode around. One drawback: most of the kids had seen the movie version so they already know what was going to happen. Damn Hollywood, stealing all the fun.
Perfect read for the boys! The loved it! A little bit of excitement/ adventure with short, somewhat "dangerous" events. A delightful read. Requesting the rest of the series from the library. An added bonus, because the mouse risks his life to find an asprin for friend, a human boy, when he has a fever, Nate now believes in the importance of taking medicine to help lower his fever:)
