https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460248.The_Rebels
It's fast paced, a bit of a historical soap opera, with a fantastic look at America's history for another couple of years of the Revolutionary War. In this book, we're introduced to another major character & get great glimpse into the lifestyle of Virginia.
Poorly led & supplied, far away from their homes & families, these men stuck through incredible hardships.
George Clark makes a few appearances, too.Another interesting note was book piracy.
Our hero is plans to start his book selling business by republishing Thomas Paine's works.
A very moving, powerful tale and epic follow-up to  ! John Jakes is the American Ken Follett!! The Rebels picks right up after the events in the introduction to the Kent Family Chronicles in The Bastard. Taking place in the 1770's, Phillip Kent, now a soldier fighting the British in the American Revolution, participating in the Battle of Bunker Hill in Charlestown, Massachusetts, alongside Henry Knox, and George Washington, at the time General of the Continental Army in the war, before becoming
And we're also introduced to History Figure Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben, who serves as Inspector General of the Continental Army, in teaching the soldiers the essentials of military drills, discipline, and tactics to better prepare them during battle.Henry divides his time fighting the war and being at him with his newlywed Wife Anne, and his newborn son Abraham Kent.The secondary main character and new comer of The Rebels is Judson Fletcher, a hot-headed drunkard and a womanizer, living in Virginia on Sermon Hill, second son to ruthless Angus Fletcher, who is at odds with his son, who defends the black slaves working under his father, much to father's disapproval.
This is the second book of the Kent Family Chronicles, the sequel of The Bastard.I wasn't so enthusi
These comments address The Kent Family Chronicles, the entire series of eight books, in audiobook format.
Tempo and pacing fine, albeit the narration is a bit slow for my taste, bumped it to 1.25.The entire series is a broad spectrum history of the United States from just pre-Revolutionary War through the 1890s and a chronicle of the Kent family through this time.
All the instances that involve the Kents and John Jake’s other fictional characters are products of his imagination.
Several of these books were adapted for television mini-series, popular at the time.John Jakes is a terrific historical fiction author, recommended.
Maybe even better than the first in the series. Took a me a while to read due to travel and life getting in the way, but I enjoyed it.
Extensively researched and well-outlined (the family tree in this volume indicates which family members appear in volumes that hadn’t been published yet), the series was well received, and at one point John Jakes had three volumes of the series on the New York Times bestseller list at once.The story is told in tight third-person from the viewpoints of the two men (except for a brief section where Anne Kent is the viewpoint character.) Philip and Judson both meet many historically famous people while never quite making it into the history books themselves.Philip serves the Continental Army in several important battles and behind the scenes actions.
A new character, Judson, is introduced; a Virginian plantation owner’s second son he is struggling to find his place in the world while constantly arguing against his Tory father.
Will Judson find his place in the world?This is an action filled novel that follows the tumultuous colonial life during the Revolutionary War. It brings the struggle of the average Continental soldier to light as well as the conditions in which they fought.
Judson’s storyline takes this novel out of the northeast and into the southern “colonies” bringing their concerns and lifestyle to light as well.
Reading about how Phillip’s life has changed alongside with the “Colonies” state of existence is interesting.

This is the second time I have read through the Kent Family Chronicles and am remembering just how much I love the characters.Though the war is in full swing during this book, Jakes creates an excellent balance of characters who are actively involved in the independence movement and those who find themselves further removed. Though it is frustrating, the character of Judson Fletcher allows for some insight to the political activities of the time. Though I enjoy The Bastard (Book I) a little more than The Rebels, John Jakes writing remains my favorite example of historical fiction by far.
More Revolutionary War action, with all (all I can recall from school) of the major historical figures represented.The mix of historical fact (in fictional format, of course) and romance is maybe a bit off (less romance would be better). But overall, the book moves quickly and is engaging enough to stick with it. That said, the end was a bit rushed on the personal life of the main character.Moving on to Kent Family #3!
I ran across the complete 8 volume set of John Jakes’ American Bicentennial Series The Kent Family Chronicles at a used book sale. I have read the first 2 volumes so far. The Bastard kept me reading, I didn’t get much else done. The Rebels took a little longer to hook me; but once it did…. I don’t know why I didn’t read these when they came out except that I like reading a series of books all at once rather than waiting for the later ones to come out. These are great historical fiction!
This is my second reading of this series - the first time was decades ago. I enjoyed this book mostly for the history as a lot of the characters were not sympathetic at all. But I still found it a compelling read and at times, I couldn't put it down. On to book 3...
Good continuation of the story. I really enjoyed this book. Looking forward to reading the third one (The seekers) which I already have. Hoping the series will continue to be as entertaining as its been for the first two books.
I really enjoyed reading “The Rebels” which outlines Phillip Kent’s years in the army during the American Revolutionary War, the birth of his son Abraham, the tragic loss of his wife and ends with the Americans winning the war.
Didn't enjoy this one as much as the first one volume in the series - but still an entertaining read. One complaint that I have is the violence focused on two female characters, which was alienating to the female reader if you ask me.
Read all of the Kent books back in the 70s
👍Great stuff. Second book of the trilogy. Looking forward to "The Seekers". Have I reached 20 words yet? Great read.
Face it, I was glued to this today!!! It's that good!!
Better than The Bastard. The history is fascinating and the author does a good job putting the characters on the ground during the American Revolution.
A bit too melodramatic, but overall an engaging read.
6 out of 10
I am hooked on the Kent Family Chronicles. I have neveer been much for TV soap operas, but I love written ones!
very good sequel... specific scenes were not in the movie. love the historical involvement!
The story begins on June 17, 1775, at the Battle of Bunker Hill, in which Philip Kent participates.
During a great rebellion of slaves Peggy was raped, Seth killed his father opposed to Judson's defense of black slaves and his way of life, and put his son out of house.
The day before the duel, during a debate on the Lee Resolution, Judson was dismissed from the Virginia delegation for drunkenness and therefore missed his chance to vote on the resolution.
The next day, he killed Trumball in the duel and shortly afterwards, Alicia committed suicide by drowning.
Part II of the Kent Family Chronicles. Philip fights in the war, has a son named Abraham, and makes enemies. Meanwhile, we're introduced to Judson Fletcher, a Southerner who has a drinking problem and a crush on his best friend's wife. He is also appalled at his father's treatment of his slaves. Very progressive of him for 1777.Eventually Kent and Fletcher's stories converge, but I can't say how--spoilers. An entertaining read, with two strong female characters. (view spoiler)[Alas, both are raped, because drama. Right?  (hide spoiler)]
This book picks up the story with Philip Kent and his young family in the midst of the Revolutionary War. Our hero fights at Bunker Hill while his young wife, Anne Ware cares for their baby boy, Abraham.
The author also continues the story of Judson Fletcher, the son of a southern tobacco plantation owner on Sermon Hill in northern Virginia.
Judson is opposed to slavery and eventually ends up in Congress.
Both Philip and Judson lose much during the war and in the end, Philip survives to mourn and heal.
The Rebels is the second volume in John Jakes bicentennial series.
The book travels through the colonial struggle that would go down in history and the American Revolution.
Love and a sense of new found liberty inspire the characters to do the improbable while attempting the impossible.
John Jakes introduces another character to take his story in a new and ever expanding direction.
Another memorable book about the birth of the American dream, the Rebels is sure to grab your imagination and take you back to the beginning.
It is a good story about a remarkable event in history and I highly recommend it to all.
The miracle of a rag-tag renegade army beating back the forces of England...the birth of Philip's heir on the eve of America's birth...the rebel enclave in the hour of their most daring Declaration...and the proud-hearted love of a beautiful woman for her husband and the nations brave new cause.Another deep, rich, heart wrenching historical novel from John Jakes.
Revelation around how Thomas Jeffereson's came to write the Declaration of Independence, insight into Samuel Adams and his cousin John, a new understanding of Paul Revere and his role in those days, new understanding of George Washington, revelation of the activity around the Boston Tea Party...all things we read/heard about in high school, but could never grasped the richness/enormity/reason for all of it.
Added 5/11/12.=========================================6/1/12 - Today I wrote the following at my group:"I hope to finish the "Kent Family Chronicles" by John Jakes (a series of historical novels).""Right now I'm reading The Rebels, which is #2 in the collection.
I find the books compelling, entertaining, and educational as well.
This is history brought to life, the story of a family which started with a young boy in Europe (he soon changes his name to "Philip Kent") who emigrates to America before the Revolutionary War. The various books trace the family's experiences through all the stages of American history.
Very exciting."==========================================6/10/11 - Finished reading this book.
"The Rebels" is the 2nd book in the "Kent Family Chronicles" series by John Jakes.
This book follows the lives of Philip Kent and Judson Fletcher during the Revolutionary War and how both men deal with the lives they were given.Philip is a soldier who is spurred on by his wife, Anne, to be the best he can be in less than perfect circumstances.
Judson is a disappointment to his father, a landowner with slaves, and is in the "clutches" of drink and women.
A good book and, I'm sure I'll find, a great series.
