https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39333207-monk-s-hood
I read this for the “Murder Most Foul” square of my 2017 Halloween Bingo card.Brother Cadfael has not disappointed me yet.
A very young step-son is blamed for the murder and since Cadfael is sure the boy is innocent, he pursues the matter all the way to Wales.Cadfael is such a steady, sensible character.
One poignant scene has him looking at her son and thinking “That child could have been mine if I’d returned to her.” This is a very quietly enjoyable series and I will look forward to the next installment with anticipation.
I really, really liked the book, but I LOVE Cadfael.
Because it is important to know who each one of the characters really is, their souls, what makes them tick, how they think and behave.
Book three has now taught me, showed me, who Cadfael is.
I have seen the choices he makes, and I absolutely love him.
Personally I think you can skip the first, or go back and read that when you want o fill in lost details because you know you love the whole series.Super narration by Stephen Thorne.One more thing.
I have read all the books between this and that one.
While Cadfael is confined to the Abbey’s precincts for a bit, he is helped by Brother Mark, his young apprentice who is quite glad to go “detecting”, and even forego prayers in the process.This mystery felt surprisingly “gentle” and slow considering the urgency of solving the murder and clearing Edwin of the charge, the uncooperative sheriff other impediments he faces from the Abbey, the politically charged atmosphere at the Abbey, and Cadfael’s own concern in the matter of his concoction (its key ingredient being monk’s hood) having been used in the murder, and of course, the matter involving Richildis.
Seriously, Ellis Peters' Monk's Hood felt like a throwaway whodunnit set in the medieval period.
I know these are very popular, popular enough to have a tv series made from them, but I just don't see it.
The whole thing could've been done in any setting at any time.
Being that this is the only book in the Cadfael series I've read, with no plans on reading more at this point, I'd be happy to hear from any fans that are willing to vouch for these books.
Should I have started at the very beginning of the series?
I'm willing to be cajoled!
I have a feeling that this series will be like the The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series for me.
Every book is solid, they give you the warm, cozy feeling, you enjoy the atmosphere and the immersion into another time and/or place, and what more can you say?
I almost feel this series would be stronger without the murder mystery aspect.
I really enjoy feeling like I'm right there in the 12th century, working with Brother Cadfael and his herbs and potions.
I always know this is a series I can come to for an entertaining comfort read.
Excellent! As always, Brother Cadfael's wisdom shines through in this mystery. He does not rush to conclusions or believe coincidences but muddles through what clues there are to find the truth. And being a Brother, his opinion of the culprit isn't always as harsh as those of the law, compassion playing a large part in his decision.The author does a wonderful job of putting the reader into the 12th century and uses dialogue that might have reflected that time period as well. These stories are a wonderful glimpse into a different world and I appreciate the uniqueness of them!
This attachment adds a poignant touch to the mystery, and further fleshes out Cadfael’s fascinating life story; Richildis was happily married before Master Bonel, and her youngest son had been named heir to Bonel’s manor, as he had no legitimate children of his own.
Bonel was apparently a stubborn, difficult man and fell out with Edwin, his heir and Richildis’ youngest child.
Peters created a wonderful character, and her research and beautifully written stories are full of peace, tranquility and humanity, and provide a satisfying puzzle, as well; I enjoyed them when I first read them 20+ years ago, and in the current political climate, I find them a balm to my overloaded nerves, and am enjoying getting reacquainted with Cadfael and his world.
Prior Robert allows Bonel and household to move into their allotted house on Abbey land (after all, it is almost Christmas, and the good Prior is already counting the income from the manor) before the deed of gift is finalized.
But then comes the bigger issues of who did do the poisoning (and why) and how to keep Edwin out of jail until the actual murderer is caught.By the time all is resolved the reader has been treated to a lesson in Welsh vs English inheritance laws, a cross-country chase, some lovely scenes with the members of the monastic community, and the return of Heribert after Christmas.Delightful all around.
Another day, another Cadfael book read! Apparently I'm addicted. It only took 2 and a Kindle Unlimited trial.This had a really good story, bustling central mystery and memorable characters. I particularly liked the exploration of the recklessness of youth, and how we have to live with the consequences of hasty or poor decisions made. I also love the touches of Welsh culture and history in these books - missed it in book 2. Will totally read the next one.
I’m thoroughly enjoying Brother Cadfael, Medieval life in the Abbey and Shrewsbury and the mystery that occurs in each book!!
When her son is accused of the crime, she begs Cadfael for help.I saw the whodunit coming right away, but it was still fun to see Cadfael piece the facts together, especially when he has to overcome obstacles thrown in his way during some in-house political wrangling going on in his community.And I always love it when a Christian character in a book actually acts the way a Christian should.
Cadfael's faith is integral to who he is and it shows in the way he lives, rather than through any preachy rhetoric, and as a person, he's actually quite earthy and pragmatic rather than "religious," if you get what I mean.
I am not one to judge the merits of murder mysteries, but as historical fiction this takes the reader right into the history and culture of twelfth century England and Wales.
Thoroughly enjoyable reading.“The means of comfort and healing should not be used to kill.”Quibble: twelfth century law would not so easily release a murder suspect in hand to another, lesser-in-their-eyes authority for horse stealing.
Though the foreground of each chronicle is a murder mystery, behind it a nation and a culture are woven in a wondrous tapestry.
I first came across Cadfael many years ago through the ITV series starring Derek Jacobi.
In this case I happened to get an audiobook version which was read by Derek and while I loved the book, the fact that the audio version brought back great memories of the show is not to be denied.Abbot Heribert is called away to account for his management of the abbey.
In his absence a resident of the Abbey’s guesthouse, who has entailed his considerable property to the Abbey upon his death, has been taken ill and died in mysterious circumstances.
The third in the Cadfael series.
Once again a treat and a pleasure to read, even for someone who's familiar with the television series.
Once again the book contains characters that never made it to the TV program and this time was much funnier than the series ever was.
this is the third Cadfael tale chronologically and so far Cadfael discovers who the killer was each time but so far only one of the three was actually "brought to justice" in the eyes of the law.
Even then, the traitor that Cadfael discovers is left undisclosed.One final thought...
I like Brother Cadfael, I like the setting of a Benedictine abbey, and I like the simpler times.
I also like how it makes no bones of the fact that human nature is timeless (kind of hard to - since these books are murder mysteries).
Actually, it was an exception in the sense that I didn't really get on board with Cadfael's confidence in the end.
Another thing that always strikes me when I read these books and those of Miss Marple - they're such sharp and sympathetic portraits of human nature.
P.S.: I know Derek Jacobi played Cadfael, but I cannot stop seeing Sean Connery as him.
Having kind of read this series backwards (or, you know, in no particular order at all), it's fun to go back to the earliest ones and see what changed later on.
Monk's-Hood might be the most standard whodunit in the whole series, with Brother Cadfael taking a pretty active "detective" role.
I thoroughly enjoyed the contributions of Brother Mark, a novice at this point in the series, and also the scene right at the end when Abbot Radulfus is introduced and Prior Robert is taken down a notch.

Another excellent Cadfael mystery, this finds one of Cadfael's potions used by someone else to poison Gervase Bonel, a wealthy man who is in the process of leaving his manor to the Abbey in Shrewsbury; that abbey which Cadfael calls home.
Added to the storyline, the wife of the dead man was once betrothed to Cadfael many years ago, during a time before Cadfael became a Benedictine monk.
As well, the old Prior of the Shrewsbury monastery has been called to London by King Stephen to review whether he is still capable to run the monastery.
Interesting times and an interesting story.
This is the best of the series so far. I love Father Cadfael; his outlook, his thoughts....everything about him. This mystery brought out some interesting facts of law in the medieval times of England and Wales. I enjoy how Ellis Peters brings out the history and village life-styles. The murder in this book is interesting and the book kept me thinking about circumstances throughout.
Happy re-read of an old favourite.
His placid and contented existence in the Abbey is suddenly disrupted, when the Abbot takes in a guest, Gervase Bonel, his wife and household to lead a retired life, with every need taken care off in return for the gift of his manor and lands (Mallilie) on the Welsh border.
Bonel is unexpectedly taken seriously ill, Brother Cadfael is called upon for help and rushes to his aid only to find, a dying man, quite obviously poisoned and that too by a pain reliving oil containing Monks-hood, manufactured in his own workshop.
Meanwhile, Abbott Heribert has been called to attend the legatine council, and has been instructed that until he is confirmed as Abbott or a replacement is named, that no business can be finalised...which leaves Gervase Bonel's bequest incomplete.Bonel with his wife and servants, still takes up residence in the Abbey's Forgate of Saint Peter and Saint Paul, where he is suddenly taken ill.
In Master Bonel's wife, the good monk recognises Richildis, whom he loved before he took his vows.
And Master Bonel has been fatally poisoned by a dose of deadly monk's-hood oil from Cadfael's herbarium.
It just wouldn’t work anywhere else, and I’m not referring to the Abby setting.
(view spoiler)[ I can’t say I really liked the ending.
Well, the ending was alright, but the solution for the criminal was not to my liking.
Cadfael chose to take the law into his own hands not by exacting revenge but by pardoning a confessed murderer.
Now, this wasn’t in response to an accidental murder or even one carried out in the heat of the moment.
It was a preplanned murder that took an hour to carry out.
How does a life of good deeds pay for that?
The single one star review erroneously complains that Monk's Hood is the same book as St. Peter's Fair under a different title.
One of the three star reviews says that the language is difficult to understand and recommends keeping a dictionary by your side as you read.
If you really do have trouble with the language, read the book on a Kindle or similar device with built-in dictionary.
This is not a difficult book to read.
In fact this and the other Brother Cadfael mysteries are what I call fun books.

I knew who the culprit was, even before the murder occurred. I guess I've been reading too many of these and need a break. Cadfael as always is an engaging character; introducing an old flame from his past makes him even more so. In this particular novel however, Peters spends a lot more time with the younger incidental characters, which (for me, at least) defeats the reason for sticking with this story. It was an easy summer read and served its purpose, but time to move on to the weightier books on the shelf.
Book 3 finds Cadfael drawn into a murder that involves someone from his pre-Crusade's life, as well as both Abby and town politics, and Norman versus Welsh law. Lots of intrigue and rushing around, good thing he's in shape. Good series, check it out.
Deze las ik als eerste van drie. Mooie weergave van het leven in het middeleeuwse leven in Engeland aan de grens met Wales en het laat heel goed zien hoe toentertijd het rechtssysteem in Wales werkte.
"In this confused borderland of soil and law ..." Local nobleman Gervase Bonel is a Norman Enlishman to the bone; austere, punishing, and witheringly disrespectful of his stepson's apparently "tradesman-like" behaviour.
"He turned with a sigh to the household within, and was brought up short by the widow's dark eyes ..." Gervase Bonel's widow turns out to be the woman Cadfael was once engaged to as a young man, and her fourteen year old son Edwin is the prime suspect.
Cadfael changes the murderer with the greatly more difficult penance of living despite his crime opposed to dying for his crime.
Slow paced whodunit Another killing that seems obvious until questions are asked. How many dustier can you pick up before it is obvious where the blame lies? Great story telling with interesting characters.
