https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472331.Watchmen
Now, people are rushing to read it in droves, but approaching Watchmen without an understanding of its history and influences means missing most of what makes it truly special.The entire work is an exploration of the history and purpose of the superhero genre: how readers connect to it, and what it means philosophically.
His plots are deceptively complex, but since they all share themes, they flow one into the next with an effortlessness that marks Moore as a truly sophisticated writer.Many readers probably read right across the top of this story, flowing smoothly from one moment to the next, and never even recognizing the bustling philosophical exploration that moves the whole thing along.
I didn't read this until last year.
Along with the Sandman graphic novels this is my favourite work in the medium (Zenith and Preacher get honourable mentions).
He's not a great writer for comics, he's a great writer period, who happens to have made the graphic novel his medium.
Its scope was what kept it from the big screen for so long, and in truth the movie (whilst good fun and well done, I thought) is just a 2D projection of this complex multi-dimensional work.
Rather than try I'm just going to back off the grandiose praise and return to the punchline:This is a fun read.
If someone sneers at you for reading a comic-book...
(A) 88% | ExtraordinaryNotes: Continually drawn in by its brilliance, it’s a comic tour de force, with meaty dialogue and a complex, layered storyline.
They are simply people who are convinced that they are right.
Take Rorschach, he follows the law to the very letter, but never stops to consider, for a single moment, that there are actually problems with the law; yes, he is violent, but his unique form of vigilante justice is an embodiment of the law’s order.
There is simply no quantifiable right or wrong in this world; there is only neutrality and hypocrisy.
In this he is more neutral than any other character; he isn’t in denial; he isn’t convinced he is right: he just knows that the world is, essentially, doomed.
And ALL OF THOSE OTHER ARTS MAKE EMOTIONALLY ENGAGING STORIES!I get frustrated because my graphic-novel friends keep foisting these things on me.
In other words, I WAS EMOTIONALLY ENGAGED!A lot of these graphic novels and stuff seem to think that if they simply tickle your creative brain, they’ve succeeded.
Cool things don’t make me feel.
People can imagine and draw all the cool things in the world, and it won’t make me emotional engage.
Graphic novels are mostly cool.
What was really good was the writing though and the way things all came together through the story, like the research center featured near the news stand coming back to being important to the climax.
It kind of made me think of how people can have a hard time understanding rape in a consensual relationship like a marriage but how context can really change things and how things aren't always as clear cut as being wrong and right necessarily for the person who is raped.Anyway definitely one of the best things I've read regardless of how angry I am about how things end.
It tells of the human drama, the DNA that is passed down generations, the hopelessness of modernity, and which side we'll choose when the apocalypse is neigh.
it wouldn't be a success if it wasn't SOMEhow ridiculous)."The Incredibles" (Best Pixar Picture Ever) touched upon many of the themes presented here, mainly about the humanity of "Superheroes." Can a rapist actually save lives?
Can the past be altogether discarded so that one can live a "normal" life--whether its superhero or human?
This menagerie of misfits (Nite Owl, Dr. Manhattan, the Comedian, Ozymindas, Silk Spectre...) live & breathe, that is a FACT.
It was too busy trying to be Deep and Meaningful and Teach Us A Lesson to actually do anything as lowbrow as make compelling characters the reader can identify with and have them do interesting and entertaining things.While I love characters who are sucky human beings in small doses, stories where damn near everyone sucks like this one get on my nerves.
I don't like reading stories filled with a bunch of irredeemable emo asshats who do shitty things to each other (and to humanity in general), and where the the themes of the story are pounded into your face with the delicacy of a sledgehammer.
I read this AFTER I saw the movie, which was sacrilege according to some fellow geeks on Twitter, but my definition of "Geek" is someone who doesn't do what people PRESSURE them to do :P They love what they love.
So anyhoo I read this and I can summarize this way:The Movie did a great summary of the plot while formulating a story that missed the subtext of the graphic novel entirely.
I enjoyed both, but after reading the graphic novel, it's almost sad how the impression you take away from the movie is nothing of what Alan Moore was trying to say about the world, society or these characters.
What's this? Unpopular opinion time? Most of my friends and most of Goodreads love this book. I did not. I read for pleasure. I don't care if reading makes me smart. I don't care if reading makes me pretty. I just want that escape into other worlds. If I went to this world-I would die from boredom. I actually like the darker books so I thought this one would sweep me up into the fandom of it. But, alas, it just made me sleep quite well last night.I didn't even know there was a movie made from i
Unpopular opinion time?
I don't care if reading makes me smart.
I don't care if reading makes me pretty.
I just want that escape into other worlds.
If I went to this world-I would die from boredom.
I actually like the darker books so I thought this one would sweep me up into the fandom of it.
But, alas, it just made me sleep quite well last night.I didn't even know there was a movie made from it until someone mentioned it while I was reading it.
Oh, and for the trolls that I'm sure I will attract with this review.
Because everyone has their own opinion.
(on your own frigging review)
Alan Moore is the greatest graphic novelist of all time. He has created a world where superheroes are not typical superheroes like super-man, spider-man et al. Each superhero has a unique philosophical perspective. And he has created superheroes who were either in deep complex psychological crisis or are going through one, and they are not perfect who always save the day in the end.
I've been in many discussions over the years -- some in classes I was teaching, some over pints in the bar, and still others late at night with people I love -- about what Alan Moore was trying to say with Watchmen, discussions about the meaning of his graphic novel, and I am convinced that the meaning is not what most people think.Most people I have talked to look at Veidt's mini-Armageddon to bring peace as inherently evil -- and the most monstrous act in a book of monstrous acts.
Aaron's been telling me for a long time that I should read a select few of his favorite comic books.
There's all this build up about The French Connection and what a great car chase it has and how influential it was and how it marked the birth of a new type of movie anti-hero who inhabited a realistic moral grey zone, blah, blah, blah.
Everything I know about comics I've learned from Aaron Matthew Polk, and he's a huge Watchmen fan, so I had already absorbed the Watchmen worldview without ever having read the book.
The Comedian is a nihilist who has committed an unspeakable crime against one of the other superheroes, as well as plenty of crimes against the non-hero community.
Doc Manhattan and the Comedian are shown engaging in bloody carnage in an alternate Viet Nam War. Is murder in the service of country ok?
Unlike the dominantly rose-tinted superheroes of the past, the Watchmen heroes are far past flawed.
Doc Manhattan struggles even with the notion of valuing the continuation of the human race.
One of the greatest standalone comics which led to one of the greatest screen adaptations of a superhero story, Watchmen is an extraordinarily fun ride. I love the 30s atmosphere and the compelling characters. The heroes are all over their prime (kind of like Batman and Superman in retirement in The Dark Knight Rises). The artwork is great and the story is orignal - one of the great comic classics!Need to re-read this one regularly as Alan Moore really created a graphic novel of lasting genius.
Re-discovering a known masterpiece This book is an giant-size hardcover annotated edition of “Watchmen” graphic novel. Presenting the entire original work, in black & white, along with reference notes per page. Also includes a timeline of the events in the story.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrator: Dave GibbonsEditor of Annotated comments: Leslie S. Klinger WHO WATCHES THE WATCHMEN?  None of you understand. I'm not locked up in here with YOU. You're locked up in here with ME. I read
I couldn’t do it before since getting that kind of graphic novels in my country (Costa Rica) was impossible then, and thanks to a tourist trip to USA, it was that the first thing that I do in a comic book store, it was looking for it and buying it, to read it once back home.I didn’t know then, but this will be my first “meeting” with my favorite comic book writer (and while I prefer V for Vendetta over Watchmen (yes, I know, it’s not natural, hehe) still I have a high respect for this graphic masterpiece.Watchmen was a pioneer work that in past decades, when comic books were only avalaible in specialized comic book stores, Watchmen was avalaible in regular book stores, featuring in the Time Magazine Top100 of the best books ever written.Since Watchmen changed the game, it was one of the first comic books distinguished to be named “graphic novel” since this is without a doubt a work of literature……only having drawing along with it.My favorite character in Watchmen is Rorschach.
Modern comics events seem to demand endless lead-ins and spin-offs, and sadly Doomsday Clock, from the blockbuster team of Geoff Johns and Gary Frank, is no exception to this trend.
Also at no point is the membership of the Watchmen clearly delineated, and the team never really come together to solve the threat - an attempt at a clever bait and switch which goes sadly wrong in the hands of this inexperienced creative team.The threat itself is handled marginally better, though aside from a couple of cool spreads the stiff artwork can hardly stand comparison to previous DC events like Blackest Night and Forever Evil which set the highest standards for realism in superhero action.
First published in 1987, this has come to be a benchmark of what kind of powerful fiction can be accomplished in this medium.Describing an alternate history where Richard Nixon has been president for multiple terms, the United States won the Vietnam War, and superheroes guard the streets and watch over us against the bad guys.But who watches the watchmen?The original heroes are all retired or dead and the second generation are banned, but then one of the originals is murdered and we are drawn into a world turned upside down and where the feelings and motivations of our heroes are explored and dissected.Like Gore Vidal, and obliquely like Kurt Vonnegut, Moore also explores our need for superheroes.
okay i finally read it. and although i hate hate hate the art (which is why i didnt read it long ago until everyone kept telling me it was better than the art) the story is mostly very good. there are a couple of cringe-y things in there, mostly just dated material that cant be helped, but i am glad i read it, and you all can stop shouting at me now.
Αριστουργηματικό, πάρα πολύ καλογραμμένο, με σχέδιο καλοταιριασμένο και λεπτομερές τόσο όσο. Οι φιλοσοφικές του προεκτάσεις σου δίνουν τροφή για σκέψη, ειδικά σε εποχές Τράμπ. Αυτό το βιβλίο εναλλακτικής ιστορίας μένει χαραγμένο στην μνήμη, δίνει άλλο χαρακτήρα στους συνήθως απίθανα εξωπραγματικούς υπερήρωες και παρουσιάζει την κατάσταση πάντα με τον τρόπο που θα έπρεπε να είναι, ποτέ ούτε μόνο άσπρη ούτε μόνο μαύρη.
MIA'S JOURNAL. JANUARY 31st, 2016:Finished book today. Was good. Interesting. Review to come, much to say.When people see this, they will demand to know. Down below, the readers will look up at me and beg, and they will ask: "Should we read this book?"And I'll look down and whisper, "Yes."
Watchmen is the story of a group of super heroes who don't fight crime anymore because vigilantism was outlawed.
I feel like there's an underlying importance to that character though, something that I couldn't quite grasp...I tried thinking about Rorschach as a rorschach blot for the Watchmen and it nearly broke my brain.
(view spoiler)[It's as if how you perceive this character says more about you than the story itself.
(hide spoiler)]The Watchmen is more than a superhero story: it's an examination of power both physical and in the heart.
(I apologize in advance to all those who will be offended when I make this next statement.) I thought it would be a nice easy read that I could finish in a few hours.
This thing took me days to finish!
I still don't know if I like it, and it certainly wasn't enjoyable to read.
Most of the time it made me feel slightly nausious, but I think that was what the writer and artist were going for.
I am, however, glad that I read it.
I think it stands the test of time as something unique.
I still had it, though, so I gave it another chance because it's supposed to have revolutionized the superhero genre and the cover promised me it was both brilliant and peerless.
It actually has a lot of information in it, and I loved all the details, the ads for Nostalgia perfume and Meltdown candies, the ever changing face of Rorschach, the Gunga Diner elephant, the spraypainted and sometimes incomplete "Who watches the watchmen?" graffiti, the newspaper headlines, and the intercuts between the pirate comic and the superhero story.
I normally don't like large blocks of unillustrated text in graphic novels, but these complemented the story perfectly, giving us background we wouldn't have gotten otherwise.
It’s been fairly said a hundred times in the 27 years since its publication that writer and artist Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons respectively have created something immortal which then influenced other works and changed the comics medium forever.
I do feel that it is an important work not because it was the first attempt to deconstruct the superhero genre although that partly drives the legacy of Watchmen, but rather it has something more to do with Watchmen’s depth, complexity and artistic understanding of a medium like comic books which has been on the unflattering receiving end of the majority.
For example, in excerpts from his book that are spaced throughout the graphic novel, a former superhero discusses his costume-making process: "I experimented with a cloak, remembering how the Shadow would use his cloak to misguide enemy bullets...In practice, however, I found it too unwieldy.
I was always tripping over it or getting it caught in things, and so I abandoned it for an outfit that was as streamlined as I could make it." Or, as Edna Mode would say, "NO CAPES!" Movie references aside, I really liked all the technical details about being a superhero I'd never considered before (for example, how do they keep those little masks stuck to their faces?
Frankly, I've always looked down on comic books and graphic novels.
That is until I saw "Watchmen" - the movie that amazed me by its complexity and cleverness.
Needless to say, I just had to see what kind of material it was based on.
I wasn't disappointed.
Let me start by saying that I though the movie did this book justice, especially visually.
But reading this graphic novel just added an entire new layer to the story, making it even deeper and more complex than I thought it was.
The characters of Dr. Manhattan, Ozymandias, Rorschach, and even Comedian were original and unforgettable.
Read before you see the move...or after you have seen the movie. Truly one of the most innovative interpretations of SH comics ever written.
It would be a stronger world, a stronger loving world, to die in. ~ John CaleExtraordinarily powerful; Truly special; Visually engrossing – indeed qualifies to be one of the all time greatest novels! 12 amazing chapters of groundbreaking poetic and artistic verses!!In a world filled with many mindless and senseless graphic novels and comics, Watchmen is an intelligent and thought-provoking creation, much much more than just entertainment. A masterpiece, which does not really require a review. "We are all puppets, Laurie. I`m just a puppet who can see the STRINGS." ~ Jon/Dr. Manhattan
The problem with ground-breaking works is that, a decade or two later, once the ground is well-broken, they no longer seem that ground-breaking after all.We forget that once upon a time the idea of a morally ambiguous superhero was a revolutionary concept in comic books Before they never questioned what was good and what was evil and which side should win and how.
One girl is feeling “iffy” about her 17 year old brother reading it.Everyone knows ‘Watchmen’ is a gateway comic.
It might lead to more comic book reading.
But other people, I mean me, can find themselves returning to comic books after an almost 20 year hiatus.
i talked before about Alan Moore in V for Vendetta review so i will skip it , to SUM up he is the best graphic author ever .i don't know why but i think The Comedian point of view is how Alan Moore See The World .
The Comedian understood " Humans are savage in nature.
Second : About the movie , The ultimate cut edition 3 hours and half and it's is a copy-paste from the comic , frame by frame and it includes the Tale of The black Freighter too .
In fact, until recently it was the only graphic novel (other than Frank Miller’s SIN CITY series) I’d read in the past 25 years despite a life-long love of SFF.I think Watchmen addresses a lot of the reasons WHY I wasn’t interested in comics all that time.
You need look no further that the original Tim Burton versions of Batman from the 1990s to the incredibly dark vision of Christopher Nolan’s DARK KNIGHT series.It’s very likely that Watchmen (and Frank Miller’s DARK KNIGHT reinterpretation) deserve a lot of credit for that trend toward dark, complicated, and twisted superheroes, to the point where the term “hero” comes into question.
You should read this if you like:  retro art, nihilism, alternate timelines, mysteries, murders, morally grey characters, non-linear timelines, superhero debates, doomsday clocks, mysteries, murders, morally grey characters, non-linear timelines, time, nuclear debate.
Set in an alternate timeline, Watchmen tells the story of a group of vigilante Superheroes who emerged in the 1940's and changed history the way we know it.
One of the first superheroes to hang up his mantle following the Keene Act, Daniel realizes just how little his efforts are accomplishing towards fighting crime and saving lives.
You can see the poster hung by a door by way of the guttering light of a neon sign, 'LIQUOR' buzzing faintly into the night.
The superhero's bold and strong design is marred with the bulges of its brick framework, poster plastered in wedges that have managed to survive the brutal onslaught of the elements for many years.
There is something in the alleyway you can't quite see, a limp bundle nearly invisible to the eye, save for the glitter of something that manages to catch a little light from the decrepit sign.
Instead, The Comedian turned out to be the apex cynic, and so I didn't care who killed him, I didn't care why Rorschach was torturing people, and I definitely didn't care about the world going to hell because it was so obviously not in contention.
This movement spawned approximately ten good characters and millions of pages of worthless crap, so I'm still not sure why its existence as critique considered a good thing, but it's certainly a landmark in the history of comic book writers who were so self-loathing they had to call their work "graphic novels." I found it simply painful to read back then and not worth owning today.
Very entertaining to read - based on the subject matter and quality of the writing/story I can see why this is considered one of the top novels of all time.Also, I think this is a good story for people to read today even though it was written during the Cold War. The subject matter is still very pertinent and it could help many realize that not properly responding to our fears could lead to our destruction.
2 Stars I know, I know, "Sacrilege!" I promise I have my reasons. (Spoiler alert: Rape used as a trivial plot point and bizarre story-within-a-story antics)RTC
Beneath the surface, it's an examination of super heroes: what makes them put on costumes and fight crime, why would they waste their time on petty crimes when they could do something greater, and would a godlike being really care about humanity's day to day affairs.
While it gets a lot of grief for the dark turn comics took in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Watchmen stands the test of time and remains one of the best.
Οκ,δεν ξέρω πως να ξεκινήσω.Να πω οτι πρόκειται για αριστούργημα;Να πω οτι εχω μείνει με το στόμα αν
Wtachmen is probably the most famous superhero graphic novel of all time, and i don't think that is going to change any time soon, if ever.
To those who are not, there will be some moment in their lives where they will meet someone who will mention it, or like in 2009 with the release of the movie, everyone is going to talk about it.I only read it now, my now is 2017, but i don't think that makes any difference.
The reason is very simple, mankind is not going to change and this book is NOT about superheroes, this ..
Amazing.   ***   Άλλη μια συνανάγνωση με το παρεάκι απ'τη ΛτΒ.
But every once in a while, I make myself read a certain book for the literature value it has or for the sheer reason that I think I should.
The ending was specially a very nice surprise and I find it very refreshing when I think of all the comic books that exist to depict Superheroes and their struggle to save the world but Seriously, the journey was....BORING!
When reading an award-wining comic that "chronicles the fall from grace of a group of super-heroes plagued by all-too-human failings.
For me, It was simply too busy trying to be deep and teach the readers a lesson while there wasn't any real depth to it and I actually didn't learn anything.
So it's now apparently sacrilege to criticize Moore and Gibbons' feted book but I don't care, iconoclasm is underrated.
There are also cut scenes, "Under the Hood" the dullest autobiography of an ex-superhero ever penned thanks to Moore's substandard prose, and "The Black Freighter" a sub par haunted pirate comic book.
So you have a murder plot that I didn't care about, characters you wouldn't think about twice, two sub plots that never should have been, and a culmination which, despite my criticisms of the book, I quite liked in its randomness.
Basic Plot: Someone has murdered the "hero" the Comedian, and the retired costumed heroes begin to investigate, turning up all kinds of nasty messes.I'm seriously tempted to give spoilers here, as the book was utterly mind-blowing (GAH!
GAH!), and there were some serious twists in the book that, while I can't say I didn't see them coming, still really affected me strongly.This is not a comic book for those who want their superheroes infallible icons of Americana.
This novel showcases the sort of "behind the scenes" stuff that was never really shown in all the golden and silver age comic books.
Great, endlessly complicated, but literature, without question, and not just a typical superhero yarn, of course.
a sort of postmodern turn on the supposed modernist origins of comic book heroes, dark and cynical and disturbing and funny and a great book, period.
The art by Dave Gibbons (Green Lantern) is terrific, too, perfect for reflecting back on the past and for focusing on the cold war period of the eighties when it was clear we could very easily blow ourselves up..
This book captures the zeitgeist of the eighties for comics and world culture perfectly.
