https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24662081-inspector-cadaver
that there is a saying in the police force that he that has has the best alibi is all the more suspect?"That starts the Inspector on a train of thought:The minute he left the house, an idea had occurred to him.
He never thinks, and the facts come to him the way a sponge absorbs fluid.
Non uno dei migliori. Un pò noioso ma non me la sento di dare due quindi metto un tre. Ne ho letti di migliori. (Per gli altri sette precedenti seguire link nel profilo)
Another superb Maigret episode.Let me include here a Penguin books introduction from 2003 which shows why Simenon is a great writer, not just a great crime writer:"Inspector CadaverIntroductionThe Other SideInspector Cadaver was written in 1943, when Georges Simenon was living in a country retreat in the marshy Vendée region of France with his wife Tigy, his mistress Boule and his small son Marc.
A young man, Albert Retailleau, had been found dead on the railway line near Naud's house, and rumours are rife in the town that Naud had somehow been involved in the accident, if such it was.On the journey to Saint-Aubin, Maigret is surprised to see Justin Cavre, a disgraced policeman now turned private detective, on the same train.
It has been an interesting journey reading the Maigret novels in order as they were written/published by Georges Simenon.This one is a complete contrast to the previous book and therefore it demonstrates the scope of the author's writing.
Loved the atmosphere and Maigret's persistence which make for an original novel that takes a mystery and brings clarity where only silence and conspiracy seemed to exist.
an easy and enjoyable read, a bit tame as mysteries go but fits the era of its writing
Very enjoyable until the end, which is not the end we want but what the Inspector, on an unofficial investigation, sees fit to do.
His nickname of course is Cadaver...and he threatens to triumph in this case: "In Cavre's wake, as though by magic, evidence melted away, witnesses could remember nothing or refused to speak, and items of unmistakable proof, like the cap, vanished into thin air."But Maigret triumphs, of course, since he never thinks, but absorbs until he can intuit what is going on in the village.
His assistant Lucas says, "There comes a moment in the course of an investigation...when the boss suddenly swells up like a sponge." "He knew what went on inside all those small, low houses nestling in the darkness." Spongebob Maigret!

As a favor to a friend (a magistrate), Maigret travels by train to a village in the Vendee to investigate a questionable death, which the community, in an apparent conspiracy of silence, has hushed up.
Though kindly taken in by his friend's provincial relations, Maigret is largely accorded the silent treatment as he goes about his investigation.
This is not an easy undertaking, as Maigret feels a bit out of his element in a tacitly hostile milieu.
What is more: there is also a private investigator, nicknamed Cadaver, who had arrived in the village on the same train as Maigret and soon poses as an obstacle in Maigret's investigation.
Another excellent 'Maigret' novel.
In short, Simenon gives us everything we want and need from a 'Maigret' novel......except I somehow found this one slightly less satisfying than some of the others.
It was written in the 1940s when (in my opinion) Simenon was at the absolute height of his powers.
The 'Inspector Cadaver' of the title is supposedly a rival to Maigret but he is curiously ineffective throughout.And yet we mustn't be too picky.
Simenon is great, 'Maigret' is fantastic and I intend to read all 75 books.
One thing that did amuse me in this novel was when Maigret was sarcastically accused of being like 'Sherlock Holmes'.
This book was written well and I enjoyed reading it. One thing though, Please don't let this be your first Maigret story; you won't appreciate the memorable character Maigret, unless you read some of his Paris books that showcase his abilities.First published in 1944, the era with cranking telephones and telephone operators that listen in on the conversation for juicy gossip. Maigret figures out the case dispite all his hardships in being in a small country town. Well worth reading.
One of the blurbs on the new Penguin editions of Maigret is from William Faulkner in which he compares Simenon to Chekhov. In this story you can see what he was getting at. The small town of Saint-Aubin in the Vendee comes under the scrutiny of Maigret's relentless eye. The mystery of who killed the young Albert Retailleau is really incidental to Simenon's dissection of the seething emotions broiling in this small French rural community in the first half of the twentieth century. Brilliant.
Justin Cavre, a former colleague of Maigret, known as "Inspector Cadaver" for his appearance and habits is a private detective.
Maigret is on top form and despite huge hostility from various locals, and the unwanted participation of Cavre in a parallel exercise, is able to get to the bottom of what is going on.
The way in which Maigret keeps his cool, handles the unpleasant characters involved, and decides what needs to be done, is masterful.
Cavre expects and believes that he has finally got the upper hand on Maigret, and is crushed when he discovers he has not.
This Inspecteur Maigret novel by Georges Simenon, is the novel we've been "reading" aloud in my Tuesday night adult class, but I like to finish the whole thing in order to not lose the thread of the plot and the relationships among the various characters.
Generally, Simenon's mysteries are easy to read as well as full of good conversational phrases and ruminations by our main man.
Maigret has been asked by a colleague in Paris to "unofficially" look into an event in a small town in the Vendee where he is heading for a vacation; the colleague's sister is married to Etienne Naud, about whom rumors and insinuations are flying concerning the "accidental" death of a young man found hit and run over by a train.
Maigret is asked to journey to a small town to help a friend of a magistrate who is suspected of participating in a murder. He is greeted with open arms, fed and housed generously but confusion reigns. To complicate matters a former police rival journeys to the same town on the same train and their paths intersect. Simenon uses the class structure well as the plot unravels but the ending feels incomplete as not all the threads are drawn together.
Una de las historias más satisfactorias de Maigret de las última que he leído. La verdad es que durante casi todo el libro he estado preguntándome un montón de cosas, más allá de quién era el asesino, y aunque el final es un poco extraño, o al menos curioso, en general he disfrutado mucho con esta novela.
Otra de las aventuras del inspector Maigret!!!!Pueblo chico infierno grande le llaman....No me gusta que Simenon justifique la muerte de un inocente, solo porque alguien siempre deba pagar los trastes rotos. Te me caiste Maigret!
Maybe one of the stronger Maigret books. It seems to penetrate a bit deeper into motive and social posturing, while the plot seems to take care of itself. And that is what I read Simenon for.
Good country people are the worst people.
A minor Maigret, seemingly written on autopilot.
Superb authorial narration.
one of the best in the series...Loved it
Simenon leads the pack as far as I'm concerned. Find another writer that can dive down to the stark facets of human cowardice, pride and shame with such economy of prose. I bet you cannot.
My first Maigret. Would read more. Solid detective fiction.
Superintendent/Chief Inspector or Whatever Maigret takes on a case privately, outside his official duties, as a favor to an acquaintance, an examining magistrate in Paris.
The case takes him to Saint-Aubin in the Vendee region where the examining magistrate’s brother-in-law, a respected and wealthy farmer named Etienne Naud, is suspected of killing his daughter’s lover.
Cadaver has also been engaged by an unknown party to investigate the murder.Maigret identifies Naud as the murderer indeed, but rather than trying to bring him to justice, Maigret blames another man, (whom he despises as a parasite and hypocrite), a family friend named Alban, who had been screwing the daughter.
This is an exceptional tale from Simenon featuring his famous character, Chief Inspector Maigrit.
It seems that a young man was found run over by a train in a small village some distance from the capitol, and that his boss’s relatives there have somehow been implicated through a series of anonymous letters distributed among the population.
Maigrit finds himself ignored by this former inspector, but plods along anyway.
He has a young daughter who was the secret lover of the slain young man, and Maigret soon finds out that she is pregnant with his child.
The competition between these two to solve the murder is a characteristically fascinating battle of wits, and while Cadaver seems to have the upper hand initially, Maigret's superior intuition takes everyone by surprise.
While he does indeed solve the mystery of who dispatched Albert to his grave, this is one of those Simenon books in which, for various reasons, the true killer is never appropriately punished.
And I think this is a true reflection of how these situations play out: ambiguous scenarios yield ambiguous results.
First Sentence: Maigret surveyed his fellow passengers with large, sullen eyes and, without meaning to, assumed that stuck-up, self-important look people put on when they have spent mindless hours in the compartment of a train.Inspector Maigret is set by his boss to a small town in order to investigate the death of a young man.
On the train there, he sees his a man who used to work for him but is now his rival, who Maigret has named Inspector Cadaver.
Rumors have emerged that blame the magistrate’s brother-in-law, although the magistrate is certain there’s nothing to them.But on the train to Saint-Aubin-les-Marais, Maigret catches sight of a onetime colleague: Justin Cavre – a sullen, supercilious thin man nicknamed Old Cadaver, who served with Maigret for 20 years before being forced out over an impropriety.
There’s no way to explain how deftly author Georges Simenon crafted this gem of a novel without spoiling it.
Like the young Louis Fillou, I know that things will never change in backwaters like Saint-Aubin-les-Marais, and with the overpowering sense of entitlement of the “good families,” until they are held accountable.
An Inspector Maigret book - genre fiction from this most prolific writer, Georges Simenon.
This was my first Simenon experience.
Enjoyable, though I didn't really care about the plot that much - the ending was not tight but neither was it happily ever after, so it was 'realistic,' which I appreciated.
The book is short and rushes to the end, but it has many small moments - mundane yet keen psychological insights for the characters - and small physical details that bloom within the scene.
Those might seem like trivial things to be impressed about, but I find those touches lacking in most writing.
