https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1105470.The_Locked_Room
While his friends and colleagues are seconded to the Robbery department trying to solve a murder in a recent bank robbery, and to end a seemingly linked rash of bank robberies entirely, Beck has been handed a case (sort of an act of rehabilitation to ease him back into service after his recovery from a bullet to the chest) of apparent suicide, which turns out to be a classic "locked room" murder.
The illusions of justice loom even larger over the story than Martin Beck.
I can’t help feeling that Sjowall and Wahloo don’t believe that justice is something we should aspire to let alone something that is even possible.
As I started to say earlier, the story is multi-layered (the criminal, the individual, the social, the political), and apparently disjointed, but it all comes together to an elegant and logical conclusion.First there's the actual mystery of the locked room, one of the very first themes used in detective novels when the likes of Sherlock Holmes or Hercules Poirot were able to unlock the puzzle by logical deductions helped along by pipe smoke.
Beck is given the file when he comes back to work after a long convalescence, but nobody expects him to get far.The second layer is another crime, a bank robbery that ends with a foolish bystander shot dead.
A man is shot in a bank raid.
A man is found in a room which has been locked from the inside.
He has stopped smoking - reducing the ratio of adult smokers in the book to around 90%, a low for the series.
There is a fantastic passage about a botched police raid that is straight out of Keystone Cops.
Comic genius.Overall I found this less satisfying than the other books.
The mystery unfolds against the backdrop of Sjowall & Wahloo's decaying Sweden, poisoned by the failures of "The Third Way" and a militarised police force, whilst Martin Beck's psychological recovery starts to take place, not just from getting shot but from a lifetime of being a lonely, melancholy policeman.It's been said from the beginning of the remarkable "Story of a Crime" sequence of books featuring Martin Beck and his colleagues in the Stockholm Police Force that Sjowall & Wahloo were using the traits of the police procedural and the detective novel to critique the problems within in Swedish society in the late 60s but it is here within the boundaries of a truly classic mystery plot that they raise the commentary above the general hubbub of background noise and plant it front and centre.
Powerful stuff from "just a crime novel."
This is a little hard to rate. In some ways - quite a few, in fact -- this is their (Sjöwall and Wahlöö's) most accomplished book. The characterization is rich. But there were certain elements of the plot that I didn't like. For the longest time, for example, I thought that the whole section of the bank business was a false lead, which it is not. So..., 4- stars. A somewhat ironic rating decision, I realize... penalizing the book for being *more* tightly plotted than it seemed to be. But the *seeming* itself counts for something, too, I suppose.
The novel's title (the classic detective trope of the "locked room") refers to Beck's first case upon returning to work, a suspected suicide who has died from a gunshot to the heart.
Obviously, Sjöwall and Wahlöö are having fun with the "locked room" conceit (which is fairly playfully solved), but there's a real bubbling of comedy here.
the bull-at-a-gate approach of Olssen's special squad is a source of some (nearly fatal) keystone cops style slapstick, and serves as a marked contrast to Beck's painstaking and methodical approach to police work.
Of the two Martin Beck novels I’ve now read, I far preferred ‘The Laughing Policeman’.
This volume, despite the classic but still intriguing premise, is just too slight a tale with far too much inconsequential padding.The title of course says it all.
It’s up to Martin Beck to find out.
However the bank robbery is not investigated by Beck, and the team charged with tracking down the robbers is a little too Keystone Kops to fit in with your standard Scandinavian crime fiction.
And at the centre of it all is Martin Beck, a tired and intriguing figure who I just wish had been given more to do.
Book no 8 in the series has a convalescing Beck (after his ordeal in Den vedervärdige mannen från Säffle) investigating a classic-tinted "closed room"-mystery, while his colleagues hunt for bank robbers-cum-murderers in a seemingly unrelated case...
Never read any by this author before this one was recommended to me.
But there is a lot of comedy in this book not sure if it is intentional as the rest of the National Police Force reminds me of the Keystone Cops.
Interesting way that Beck discovers how the deceased was murdered, but we have one person jailed for life for a murder they did not commit.
That same person being acquitted of the murder they did commit.
Not sure if this is the authors M.O. but it makes for an interesting and different read.
Definitely would recommend this book!
See more of my book reviews on my blog, Literary FlitsI've now read nine of the ten Martin Beck police mysteries and have only Cop Killer left unread, although I will happily reread the earlier unreviewed ones again when I get a gap in my hectic reading schedule!
In The Locked Room, Martin Beck actually takes a bit of a back seat so we get to spend more time with his colleagues, each of which are fully rounded characters in their own right.
Review of the audiobook.This is the eighth book in one of the original police procedural series.
We have most of the same elements, but I was sad to see Melander not involved in this book - he is one of my favorite characters.It's actually difficult to review this book without spoilers, but I'll try.
They make mistakes and that continues here and we have a scene that is a comedy of errors.The ending in this one is a bit of a surprise, but since it's written in such a way that I have little actual emotion for any of the characters so I come away feeling surprised and entertained, but not disappointed.
One of my favourites in the series. I like how Kollberg and Gunvald Larsson have learned to work together and a solidarity is felt even though they started out disliking each other. The cases are baffling, the solution quite unforeseeable and well thought out. Can't really say more without spoiling. Martin Beck meets Rhea and a new chapter starts in his life.Only two more to go!
I literally could not put this book down, except for cleaning the bathroom and making our evening meal, I have read it all day! We have the last two on the bookshelf but I'd better delay reading them or I'll be reading all day tomorrow too!! Talk about a page-turner!
Ainda que misterioso, o caso foi dado como resolvido: um suicídio, apesar de todas as pontas soltas.Simultaneamente, os colegas de Martin Beck, entre os quais Kollberg (que está de dieta), Larsson (como sempre mal-humorado) e Rönn (que ainda antipatiza com o chefe) encontram-se a investigar um assalto a um banco, que resultou numa morte.Neste livro são as mentes dos ladrões o alvo de exploração dos escritores suecos, que andam pelos lugares mais obscuros e duvidosos da cidade de Estocolmo.Maj Söjwall e Per Wahlöö criaram um protagonista solitário, com uma ausência óbvia de romance na sua vida.
This one seemed different than the previous ones in the series for a couple of reasons. First, Martin Beck, himself, isn't actually in it that much, relatively speaking. And second, while they were always political, this one seems more damning of just how dysfunctional Sweden was in the early 1970s. Plus, it didn't really have a satisfying conclusion. Still, the locked room mystery was intriguing, even if the investigation into the bank robberies was an utter shower.
Excellent detective story. Very funny look at some incompetent police. Scathing critic of the Swedish welfare state from inside. I never expected that.
Once again (by now I'm a broken record) I enjoyed every bit of The Locked Room, the eighth in this series.
After all, they couldn't all emigrate or commit suicide."There are the usual bumbling pretentious cops, an unlikely trio of bank robbers, the embittered colleagues we've come to love, and an almost charming crook who feels as if he's stumbled into one of Kafka's judicial nightmares - about which I'll say no more because this grim entertainment should be savored, as always in these books, right down to its final word.
The authors were a lot courageous to lead the book that way.
Beck is back yet not quite because he was shot in the chest almost die and is having dreamings/nightmares?http://25.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_ma5...Poor Beck, he goes beyond because a simple case and well nothing seems quite right or will the murder tell the truth about this or not?
The bank's case its a interest one because Bulldozer-what a name?
And how they were lead to catch the robbers.
And funny happens to or almost die also and that's not funny.Not my fav yet I am addicted to this series.
(Other readers have found this to be more bothersome in Book #6/Murder at the Savoy.) Martin Beck comes back from his convalescence, and is assigned a dead end case, where a retiree is found dead in his locked room and suicide is assumed until they find he has been shot and no gun or bullet casing can be found.
The Locked Room is a double entendre for the first murder and for Martin himself, who in the course of his investigation finds some solace in an unpretentious, caring landlady, Rhea Nielson.
So: the famous Martin Beck series.Hmm. Well, I must say it starts well, and when Beck himself's on stage, especially when he's actually doing something, this hums along quite nicely.The problem with the book, though, is that it's far too often used as a soap box for pseudo-political passages on, say, the Swedish welfare system, problems facing police recruitment, etc.
etc.And the heavy-handed keystone kops style humour in places, while not unamusing, might find a more comfortable home in another novel.Perhaps a function of the famed dual-authorship of this series?
Is there a particularly good one I should have started with?
Bettie's Books
I often find myself feeling that I really must refresh my reviewing skills, there are so many other people who have such a gift for this.After a lifetime of being a bookish person, at this time in my life I still enjoy but my mind seems to be transitioning to other kinds of interests and concerns.
I enjoyed the descriptions of Stockholm of the time.
It is interesting to feel existence of translation from Swedish, as being an English speaker who is a first generation child of war refugees, I can get the sense of the language behind the translation.
Love the plot, but the pace somewhat lacking.
It did not excites me as much like my previous Martin Beck.
Story was more focus on Beck this time-- of what had happened to him in previous series gave some sort of different vibe about Beck.
The robbery plot was okay, not really a fan for the team, quite humorous but lack team work and investigation was here and there, kind of messy.
I have no idea why I love on how Monita plotting the crime but she sure a brilliant girl I mean it looked so easy and yet how can she do that?
In fact, the authors make it easy for us and actually refer to his being cooped up alone in his apartment for so long that he feels like he is in, "a locked room." That's two.As Martin begins to prepare to return to work, he goes to visit his mother.
Interestingly enough, when the police discover their whereabouts, they manage to escape.Then we meet a young, single mother who rather unwittingly causes much of the hubbub in the story and helps Martin Beck solve the 1st locked room - the actual murder, although neither of them ever realize that.
3.5
Este Beck lo percibo menos distante, más humano mostrándose vulnerable ante la muerte y la soledad.Mientras la segunda trama tiene tintes de comedia negra con personajes y situaciones casi paródicas –los atracadores de bancos y el fiscal Apisonadora Olsson no tienen desperdicio- en donde más que en otra novela de la serie destaca la ideología política de la pareja, a través de una agresiva y dura crítica al sistema policial y judicial sueco y al estado de bienestar en general pero siempre irónica y mordaz: como muestra los siguientes fragmentos: “…La Junta Nacional de Policía puso objeciones a que se aceptaran talones como medio de pago.
This is my favorite Martin Beck book so far.It has all the elements that I find so interesting about the series.
It is a mystery that will require all of Martin Beck's famous intuition, as well as his dogged persistence, to solve.The main priority of the Stockholm police, however, is solving the rash of bank robberies.
In the beginning, it seems that the "locked room" corpse and the bank robberies have no links, but, as Martin Beck, in his solo investigation, runs down every lead, it finally becomes apparent that there is a point where the two cases overlap.
He notes to Martin Beck that it was too bad Beck didn't read detective stories, because if he did, he'd probably appreciate the case even more.
There's a great deal to be said about the obvious differences in the ways in which Martin Beck and Olsson go about doing their jobs in this book.This time the authors do something a bit different than in previous books, offering a look at the criminals and their dealings with each other.
What is ongoing in this novel, as in all of the Martin Beck series, is the social and political commentary.
An enhanced special bank robbery squad was set up to investigate that.
The enhanced squad was led by a memorable character, Bulldozer Ollson.
All of these have worked with Martin Beck in the past in his role as head of the National Homicide Squad.
So the book is essentially divided in two, with Martin Beck investigating the homicide and the robbery squad investigating the bank job.
Other key characters: Malmstrom and Mohren-two well established bank robbers known by the police; Filip Faithful Mauritzon-worked with M&M as a supplier, also engaged in drug dealing; Monita-has a five year old daughter, Mona, and was for a while the girlfriend of Mauritzon; Rhea Nielsen-a new prospective romantic interest for Martin, but a bit of an odd and humorous relationship out of the gate.
The description of this incident is pure Keystone Cops, and is plainly intended to make the police appear ridiculous.Yet despite all this the book is remarkably subtle, especially in the way the woman who robs the bank is tied in with a career criminal: a careful man who, in this case isn’t careful enough.
