https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176845.The_White_Gryphon
Can not develop any interest in it. Not the book‘s fault. DNF after 17 pages and 11 years of languishing on my bookshelf.
I don't read the political-kings-posturing stories because I do not like them and that's what this was for a lot of it.
It got better once the action picked up but I think it probably could have been better with a faster pace.Also frustrating was Winterheart's character (or lack thereof).
It seemed like all she was here to do in this book was serve as someone (view spoiler)[for men to fall in love with, shoving along the plot (hide spoiler)], which is frustrating because she's cooler than that.
This book was lacking in female characters for sure.So, yeah.
The first time I read through it, I didn't care for the addition of a new set of characters and some of the context was disturbing and off-putting.
This story shows what happens after all of that, when there is no fighting, and how those who grew up in war deal with the aftermath.
It shows that building a new community isn't always easy or entertaining, but it's necessary to understand that it isn't always glamorous.
Yes, it's not the same exciting setting or story as The Black Gryphon, but a lighter read with darker undertones.

Loveable characters are back (view spoiler)[with kids! (hide spoiler)] Thoroughly enjoyable and an easy read, I was cheering for the main characters at the end and I loved how Lackey wrote Kechara <3 I actually think it is the strongest book of the three. It also helped that it was more mystery and suspense, which is one of my favourite genres. Also really quite fun/funny in some parts. A nice take on civilisations meeting. It is written for teens so keep that it mind. (The bad guys are bad, the good guys are good! Can do no wrong/right).
"A noble heart is supposed to live and find joy in the responsibility."Not as good as The Black Gryphon, but compelling in a different way. The Black Gryphon is all action, all go, go, go!. The White Gryphon is all politics and mystery and detective work and who-done-it? It has the same slow start TBG had, but once the plot got rolling it just kept going and didn't stop.
Too long. Plot was in the first and last 3 chapters. I really didn't need the survival guide in the middle. I love her books but I was really only finished it because I had nothing else to read on the plane.
PopSugar Reading Challenge 2017 | Task 17: Book involving a mythical creature
Soon after their arrival, a madman starts visiously murdering members of Shalaman's court, casting suspicion on the newcomers.A very typical point of politic intrigue in fantasy novels, but Lackey makes it interesting nevertheless, especially in the setting of a new and -- to those from White Gryphon -- bafflingly rigid culture.The tale is told as Lackey tells many of her stories from the Valdemar series - with shifting viewpoints so that we get to see into the mind of nearly every major player in the story.
Definitely the weakest of the trilogy. Would have liked more detail on the 9 year interim, rather than just dealing with potential new allies. This book just seemed rushed. I like the characters, but it often seems like Amberdrake can do everything. I also felt like the rather large cast of characters introduced in the first book was mostly forgotten.
Skan and Zaneel are mates now, as are Drake and Winterhart.
Magic is unpredictable and what there is of it has changed.
Yes, there is still magic and fantasy, but the focus was more on the mystery and intrigue that came with the Haileigh people.
While Skan and Drake attempt to negotiate with the Haileigh in order to keep their city, it seems that there are those out there that would sooner see them fail.
I also felt a little uncomfortable with the way the mystery and intrigue with the Haleigh worked itself out.
a little slow. the evil magician had a surprise identity. the third book silver gryphon is better.
The leaders of White Gryphon attempt to make a diplomatic move at one of the Haighlei capitals, but mysterious murders there which implicate Skandranon and Amberdrake may result in the destruction of White Gryphon!As stated before, the book was a pleasing follow up to Lackey and Dixon's prior book.
The characters tended to be fairly well thought out, each pursing their own desires and expressing their own personalities quite well while fitting into the roles required of them.
The plot fit together fairly well, though some bits, such as the fate of an early character, were too obvious.
Mercedes Lackey’s Valdemar series provides one of the cornerstones of my reading past.
There are some new books added to the series since the last time I read them, so this re-reading project is pretty exciting for me since it will include these new volumes, and will be in a new order.
In my re-reading project, I am going to try to read them chronologically - not by publication date, but by their timeline within the series.This brings me to the second book in the Mage Wars trilogy, the follow-up to The Black Gryphon.
All evidence points to one of the envoys and it's up to them to prove their innocence.I have read this book countless times but for some reason I ended up taking a different approach to it this time.
In the past I've just thought of it as a good second installment in The Mage Wars trilogy, fun fantasy that is a pleasure to read.
Granted it's not your typical Agatha Christie book, but all the elements of a good mystery are there.
You just have to ignore the more outlandish setting and characters.As a mystery, it's developed nicely.
It has been ten years since the magical Cataclysm, which destroyed the twin strongholds of the two world's most powerful Mages, killing Urtho, creator of the gryphons, and sending his forces into exile. Now Urthro's peoples--human and non-human alike live in a terraced city carved into the face of a gleaming white cliff on the edge of the Western Ocean. Secure at least, until the fleet of the mysterious Black Kings appears in their harbor, bringing envoys who inform the residents of White Gryph
It has been ten years since the magical Cataclysm, which destroyed the twin strongholds of the two world's most powerful Mages, killing Urtho, creator of the gryphons, and sending his forces into exile.
Secure at least, until the fleet of the mysterious Black Kings appears in their harbor, bringing envoys who inform the residents of White Gryphon that their newfound home lies on the northern perimeter of lands claimed by this powerful kingdom.
Desperate not to lose their hard won home, Skandranon, along with his longtime friend Amberdrake--agree to accompany the envoys back to the Court of the Black Kings, hoping to negotiate an alliance.
Please head there for more in-depth reviews by me, which appear on a timely schedule.The city of the Black Gryphon has been in operation for 10 years after the collapse of Urtho's empire.
Now threatened by the black skinned owners of their land, Skan and Amberdrake are threatened as never before.Skan returns - but he's fat and bored with life.
Sometimes it feels like they'll use up all their luck just being alive!I would have liked to see more of the regular life at the settlement, and more of the black people's lands.
Maybe some 20-somethings shouldn't pick it up either if they have certain fears or types of pasts, it could trigger some pretty bad stuff I'd bet if the bad guy hit a little too close to home, so to speak.Still, I loved the story.
You'll love the new cast as well (bad guy pending of course...)And guess what?
Our favorite little gryphon returns as well, Kechara!
The part she plays gives me a lot of respect for her, in her capabilities, despite being what the gryphons call 'misborn'.
She's such a cutie the way she acts, but one can't forget, she's a strong little gryphon as well.
I enjoyed this book though it didn't quite hold my attention like the first but still a strong storyline and the characters are entertaining.When approached by the mysterious but well known people of the Hailei Tribe who moor one day at the coast of White Gryphon, Scan, Drake and others on the counsel have to decide whether to form an alliance or be prepared for a war.
They decide for peace and are invited to the Hailei's home where they are a people steeped in tradition, believe in the Gods and have an Emperor.
I really enjoyed this book and again, I loved the interaction with the characters.
I understand the reaction of the characters to the new culture, but it was so strong that there was this distinct impression of that dark skinned culture being "wrong" and "illogical" (which it definitely seemed to be" and the pale foreigners were more logical and reasonable.
It seems weird to say that, especially given the mix of the city of White Gryphon.Shalaman was an awesome king for the Haleigh.
I loved his character.
I loved the Gryphons in this as well and I felt everything flowed nicely.
When he fled the war's destruction using a magic "gate" his dye was dissolved and he became known as the White Gryphon.
Ten years later and he is living with his friends in a new city on the coast of the western sea--named White Gryphon to honor his heroism.
All seems peaceful until a psychopath is discovered in their midst and is exiled from the city limits.
The story continues as Skandranon and others travel as emissaries to this new land in order to obtain permission to continue living in White Gryphon.
The White Gryphon is a wonderful addition to the Valdemar Universe.
This book didn't have any real fighting or great foe but that didn't mean it wasn't engaging.
I liked the look into a different society completely foreign to the world known thus far in this universe.
I enjoyed the idea of a society set against change and highly caste based.
Tribes coming together to be a great empire and expanding but finding "the white man" to be the barbarian.
It really is a great look at our own cultures of America and Europe.
The growth each had made since the first book was intriguing.
I started reading her in 8th grade but I will still pull out her books to reread them.
Her character building is really her main strength – you want to meet her characters – which is probably why I always reach for her books as a pick-me-up, it’s like talking to old friends.
This series has to do with the recovery of a devastated world and devastated people after the Cataclysm (you want more you are going to have to read the book).
Interestingly, most of the characters in the book aren't human and Lackey manages to capture that in her writing.
This is the second novel in Lackey's Gryphon series, so if you haven't you should read The Black Gryphon first--if you enjoyed that story I think you'll like this one: I like this second novel more than the first in fact.
I thought this novel was better paced and more suspenseful, and I liked the setting, reminiscent of an ancient African civilization such as Mali, but with elements that make the culture pretty unique, and thus different than the usual pseudo-Medieval European setting you usually see in fantasy.
I don't however like this book or the trilogy its part of as much as most of Lackey's other books set in this world.
If possible, better than the first!
I was hesitant to read this, especially after reading the blurb.
I feared that it would be one of those horrible books in which the protagonist is framed, then finds himself boxed in at every oppotunity.
However, this is not the case.
The rich culture of the Black King's court is intoxicating, as is the exploration of the changed relationships between the primary characters; and the pseudo-introduction of their children.
As the events begin to unfold, our heroes realise at once what has happened.
I enjoyed this book much more than the first one.
I felt that there was less jumping on ahead with little explanation and more focus on the plot at hand.I really loved Hadanelith, crazy evil guy is something rarely done right, but he was done pretty good.
Something that bugged me a bit though was one person would be mulling something over and by some pure magic the person they are with would say what the other was thinking, often in exactly the same words.
This was usually followed up with something along the lines of "almost as if [X] knew his Thoughts".
Are you telling or not?
This second book in the Mage Wars trilogy is a lovely addition to both the trilogy and the world of Valdemar.Ten years after the end of the war between Urtho and Ma'ar the survivours of the 5th army have found a place to build their settlement.
They are building a city in a cliff and it is a thing of beauty but also a place of defence.
Will they citizens of White Gryphon be able to reach an understanding with the Black King and be allowed to stay in their beautiful city, or will there be war?A fabulous addition to the trilogy and the history of Valdemar and its surrounds.
Skandranon Rashkae is leader of the White Gryphon settlement.
White Gryphon is a peaceful place with few crimes to be punished.
A strange ship is found in the bay below White Gryphon.
The men have black skin can only be the Black Kings or Haighlei Empire.
The Black Kings claim that the people of White Gryphon are trespassers to this land.
White Gryphon send envoys to the Haighlei Empire.
Treachery in the form of murder places doubt on the White Gryphon eenvoys especially Skan.
Answers to your questions await you in The White Gryphon.
The creepiest part of this book often finds it's way into my mind again: the odd man who bound his captives with such strong psychological bounds, that the small bits of string that he wound across their limbs held them in place more securely than any chains would have.
(I like how he was taken down at the end too, though!)I love the Haighlei, as odd as they are.
Their culture is so different from the rest of the people (not yet Hawkbrothers) as are their cities.I liked reading about White Gryphon as well.
I read the Valdemar series as a pre-teen, and I've been revisiting it in chronological order as part of a huge "reread my fav childhood fantasy/scifi series" project.
I've touched on a few other Lackey series lately (it is HARD to find her stuff online!) that were published after I hit puberty (and thus abandoned fantasy as a genre), so I know she's a fantastic writer...
But man!
Some of this earlier stuff is....
painful.
I made it halfway through The White Gryphon before admitting that, really, who am I fooling, this trilogy is boring me to tears.
Time to skip ahead to some later Valdemar books.
