https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/823355.Caboose_Mystery
It’s pretty much the best thing ever.Al and the Aldens troop down to the Beaver Lake in the morning and the beavers put on quite a show, doing just about every exciting beaver-type thing that I’ve ever heard of, which is remarkable, and not just because beavers are primarily nocturnal.On the way back to the train the group runs into Old Beaver, which obviously I saw coming, because you can’t mention that there’s a guy named Old Beaver and then NOT have him appear.
Grandfather decides that Benny is old enough to get lost in the woods and left behind go see the horse on his own, so they part ways.
fast fun.
I read this a long time ago, *when I was 9 or 10* and I HATED Benny so much, I could have KEELLLLLED him. I don't know why, but he was so stupid in this book. *Got so annoyed* LOL!!! I don't think the original author wrote this one though, and it was listed at the #19 in that series. *PUFF* .....Okay, I THINK this is the one where Benny is annoying...*Isn't sure* All I know is that it had a train, and involved diamonds.
The Aldens live in a Caboose on the back of a train for a week. They find a mystery, meet new people and use their enormous fortune to help everyone.The moral of the story: Life is great when you're rich.Yea I know I'm bitter and jaded by the trials of adult life.
I liked this book because I like mystery and adventure. I also liked it because there was a talking horse that got reunited with his clown, Cho Cho.
The Alden family take a vacation on a Caboose. Soon they discover that the Caboose used to be used by the circus and three is an expensive treasure removed to be hidden within it. The owner of the treasure has long since died but her husband is still alive. No one has been able to find the treasure despite extensive searching. The Alden family find the treasure and return it to the owner. Big much of a mystery but a nice read.
I love being able to read a happy mystery. Everyone ends up happy. It is saccharine sweet happy, but sometimes I want that.And I get a good laugh out of it. Benny running off by himself 2 miles to see a horse. That wouldn't happen today. And Jessie being the consummate homemaker. Yeah, I get that message too. But I enjoy a look back to see how far we have come and maybe Jessie just really likes the cooking and sewing.
Caboose Mystery There is so much going on in this book. I had forgotten all of it except for the glass factory (yes, I forgot about the clowns and the talking horse and the missing child and the diamond necklace). But I remember liking this one a lot as a kid. Probably because there’s so much going on. It felt really exciting.
I really liked this book and the mystery in the story really twisted my mind into thinking what would happen next. I also would have never thought that the two caboose used to be used by clowns and I really liked what they did with the talking horse.
A quick, cute read.
A great read for both adults and children.
The mystery was interesting. It was surprising that there was not one mention of “the old days in the boxcar.”
this is awesome
I appreciate the wholesomeness of these books, especially the relationships between the children and the manners they demonstrate.
My daughter enjoys listening to these books too.
In this book, the children and their grandfather go on a vacation aboard a caboose and learn the caboose has a history/mystery to it.
Through their sleuthing, they learn the caboose is connected to a former circus and a missing piece of jewelry.
The children have many adventures during their vacation, meet many people and animals (like a "talking" horse) and ultimately solve a mystery.
It's a nice book and has good moral values in it.
It's nice to see acknowledging of the kids getting older. In this book the youngest child Benny wants to go off in his own direction and see a horse while his family goes to see a glassblowing demonstration and he is given permission by grandfather because he is old enough to do so. Of course as part of the story he doesn't make it back on time, but he doesn't panic and handles it in a way a responsible preteen would.
Not my favorite in the series. Wholesome as ever, with benny befriending all kinds of people. I didn't love the cho cho and chi chi storyline. The vacation on the caboose was a fun idea, but it should have gone elsewhere than with a circus clown.
Another one that I read to Robbie he likes these mysteries and we get one out every week to read together. The family travels by Caboose and they make friends on the way and solve a mystery of expensive jewelry. cute!
Cute story. Grandfather Alden takes the children on a special train ride, riding the rails on 2 caboose. They meet some interesting characters and find a diamond necklace, make friends and solve a mystery.
This book was a very quick read.
A sweet little story, slightly cheesy, pretty predictable, nothing special. It kept my 3.5yo interested and didn't bore me.
Most of the book has nothing to do with the actual mystery, and the characters are particularly stupid this time around.
These books were so amazing when I was a kid. I know that I read other Boxcar Children books but I only remember this one in particular.
According to Violet, the caboose adventure is the best adventure she and her siblings have ever had.
The Boxcar Children = most read series between the ages of 6 and 9 for me. I think of these fondly. Every child should read this series.
Love the series!!
Grandpa takes them a ride on the Railroad in a caboose. They solve a mystery and find a missing treasure.
One of my favorite childhood series. I read over a hundred of them. The first 50 or so were in order; after that I read whatever book I could get my hands on :)
JEAR3-War
Warner, Gertrude C. PB
X2
