https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590047.The_Elizabethan_World_Picture
He wrote much, particularly on Shakespeare and Milton, but The Elizabethan World Picture is the book he is known best for today.Tillyard sees the Elizabethan intellectual world not as a flowering of secular humanism before the Puritan frost, but rather as an extension of what was a medieval Christian consensus:
But (boredom alert here) it's a monograph on Elizabethan poetry and the prevailing philosophies and naturalistic theories of the average, educated Elizabethan.
So if you are not into poetry, this book will probably bore you more than Martha Stewart on the many uses of Kleenex.
It's funny all the odd things they believed about the world back then, when physics was just a toddler.
And he gives you the benefit of all that digestion...drools knowledge into your mouth like some sort of mother bird with a chick.
Don't read it in public or people will run from you.
Tillyard's project is fundamentally descriptive, but in the course of describing he also delimits and calls into being the idea he has ostensibly found in Renaissance English culture.
I mean by this that Tillyard's description applies itself retroactively to defining THE Elizabethan world, rather than identifying one component of the a complex and contradictory society in which multiple ideologies competed.
And while Tillyard gestures toward other elements at play in the Elizabethan era, his work suggests a monolithic conception.
“It not in our power not to be stirred mentally by our appetites but it is in our power to translate them or not to translate them into actions.”  We, as readers of the XXI century, tend to analyze and judge a book or a poem with our worldview and the truth is most of what we read wasn't written with the same mentality. In fact, it probably was written in another time and culture where the things we take for granted and assume everybody knows weren't even thought of. In the Elizabethan world,
We, as readers of the XXI century, tend to analyze and judge a book or a poem with our worldview and the truth is most of what we read wasn't written with the same mentality.
The Elizabethan World Picture translates that mentality to us so we can fully appreciate classics of English literature and not overlook important connections that can make the reading experience all that much interesting.
Far from being a sign of modesty, innocence, or intuitive virtue, not to know yourself was to resemble the beasts, if not in coarseness at least in deficiency of education.
Tillyard paints the picture of the Elizabethan worldview in a way that allows the reader to understand it easily.
Mr Tillyard was writing at a time before deconstructionism, so this is a nicely unselfconscious, academic and eminently readable short work on the world view of the Elizabethan and Jacobean age.
Tillyard stakes out a position against those who tend to focus on the humanism and individuality of Renaissance thinking, placing Spenser, Shakespeare and Donne firmly in a tradition that continues directly from the Middle Ages rather than breaking with it.
The dynamism of the conflicts between this world and the next, between free will and destiny, between nature and nurture are rendered clearly and succinctly in a well-structured, tight piece of writing.
There is an appealing order in the world the way the Elizabethans saw it, in the way that the kingdom of plants was a real - and not an imaginary - parallel to the kingdom of the animals, which paralleled in turn the kingdom of men.
To understand a truth about one part of the world was to understand something true about the rest of the world because there were real correspondences throughout all of creation, and all created things were part of one long "chain of being", rising from the elements to the plants to the animals to man to the angels to God himself, from whom it all came.
In its pivotal study and interpretation of Elizabethan concepts and texts in their context, this brief book still remains today an indispensable companion to the student of English literature and scholar alike.
Through its many interesting references to popular and neglected texts alike, its brief but charming commentary, this study will undoubtedly change the way you look at the majority of Elizabethan texts, including most of Shakespeare's poems.
A short and interesting introduction to the Elizabethan way of thinking. Through poetry and other writings of the era Tillyard shows how commonplace and intertwined many of the following ideas were to the average intellectual; Sin, Order, The chain of being, Planes, Correspondences, and the Cosmic Dance. Definitely helps one to understand many of the political ideas of the era, at least for me it did. Worth having on the shelf for quick reference.
Quoting extensively from the likes of Shakespeare, Marlowe, Spenser and Sidney (among many others) and making reference to the Greek philosophers that influenced Elizabethan thought, particularly (pun intended) Plato, Tillyard explains the way people of the 15th and 16th centuries understood their relationship to the corporeal and spiritual world and how they established hierarchies of being from oysters through to lions; from paupers to kings.
Tillyard presents the Elizabethan period in England as a continuation of and perhaps even the zenith of Medieval European culture.
In particular, Tillyard pays a great deal of attention to the continuation of the Medieval ideal of an orderly cosmos.
This idea, says Tillyard, is the idea which underlies and informs the bulk of Elizabethan culture.
To the Elizabethan mind, the universe is one Great Chain of Being which reaches from the greatest life forms to the lowest, binding them together into an inseparable unity.
Man is that created thing which stands at the touching point between the spiritual and the material in this chain, as he brings both of these together in himself.
Very reminiscent of Lewis's 'The Discarded Image,' this book illustrates the continuity between the medieval imaginary and Elizabethan literature, thought, and culture. 'Our own age need not begin congratulating itself on its freedom from superstition till it defeats a more dangerous temptation to despair.'
A wonderful book if you are specifically interested in Elizabethan theology and philosophy specifically as expressed through poetry. Probably not for the general reader. I loved it though, it was a little slow in places but overall I found it a lucid explanation of an elegant and appealing world system. The whole conceptual framework is immensely racist though, which the book kind of alludes to without properly addressing.
An excellent introduction to the Elizabethan age in literary terms. Perfect for understanding this age. It explains with 6 of the most prominent authors and guides the reader to fully understand Elizabethan poetry and theatre.
Soooooo much info, dryly presented. Can't you tell how much I LOVED it?? 😜
Elegant, sophisticated writing that presents some ideas about how the Elizabethans saw their world. Read just before you go for MacGregor's '100 Objects', or before your next Shakespeare play.
Eye-opening book! It was worth pushing through the academic style to learn the details of how the Elizabethans (and Medievals) viewed the structure of the universe and relationships. This knowledge will come in handy as we study Shakespeare, Milton, and others from the time period. The broader my education becomes, the more value I find in it. This book is a great help in my effort to understand other people and other times.
Tillyard draws from numerous sources to support his thesis about the Elizabethan obsession with cosmic order, and he does so admirably, though he winds up belaboring a few points here and there.
The one big problem that I had with this book was Tillyard's tendency to include quotes from works that are not written in English without translating them.
Most English speakers, however, do not know Latin and would have a hard time understanding some of the points he tries to make, which seems to me to defeat the whole purpose of writing an explicative work such as this.
By the end of the book, it all starts to make sense, as does it make sense why Dante would have had nine spheres of Paradise -- because that was the number of observable spheres of the Aristotelean universe.Also a nice introduction to a number of minor Elizabethean and metaphysical poets, such as Sir John Davies (not to be confused with his contemporary, plain ol' John Davies).
Also fun to note the changes in speech and writing since the book was written in 1942.
Finally, the book makes note of the hostilities across Europe at the time of writing, which gives the whole scholarly endeavor a sort of quiet courage.
As you can see from the subtitle it goes substantially onward from Elizabeth's time.
It also goes substantially back -- the author opens with discussing how the era was not an irreligious hiatus between two religious eras, but continuous with them.Opening with a discussion of order in the Elizabethan picture, followed by the great principle, sin.
How oysters are the lowest sort of animal.
And the great cosmic dance.With considerable pointing out of the images in all sorts of writers, to point out that this was not a secular age, not at all.
one of those classic texts of literary criticism that undergraduate students of the English renaissance ought to read--but very schematic in inductively establishing an alleged weltanshauung on the basis of the theatre. it's not like it's poorly reasoned to the extent of its scope, but the scope itself is restricted. the implicit challenge is renaissance self-fashioning; I regard the challenge as dispositive.
This book is a very terse account of how the Elizabethan Age comprehended the world and man's place in it. It is a useful companion for those who are reading the great sixteenth and seventeenth century writers, such as Shakespeare, Milton, Donne or others. Dr. E. M. Tillyard explains the Elizabethan's Platonic concepts such as the Great Chain of Being; Angels; the Stars and Fate; the Macrocosm and Microcasm, Correspondences and the Cosmic Dance, images and symbols which Elizabethans readily understood, and which inspired the great minds of the English Renaissance.
It took me a little over 6 months to read this short little book.
My only excuse is that I had a large comprehensive test come between me and its completion.
The book read smoothly and is informative without being horribly pedantic.
Anyone trying to get inside the heads of Elizabethans (to what extent that is possible) will find this book a useful read.
Tillyard is especially accesible to people well read in the literature of the 16th and early 17th centuries as he uses examples from Shakespeare, Donne, and others to discuss the Great Chain of Being and Planes of Correspondences.
Nerds of Shakespeare, assemble!!Tillyard's, An Elizabethan World Picture gives a fascinating and thorough look into not just the times, but the thinking processes of the Medieval, Elizabethan, and Renaissance people. And best of all, the book is full of examples taken directly from the prose and poetry of the related era. Drooooolllllll....It's one of those books where you are bound to learn SOMETHING, how could you not? But perhaps my favorite is the focus it has on the Elizabethan's, and the interconnection these folks felt with, well, every thing.An orderly five stars out of five.
I like the overall rhetorical stance: Tillyard argues that we have forgotten that the Elizabethans were Medieval in their world view. I like the way that he reminds us what their world view was and that he brings in lots of textual examples to illustrate. But I would have liked a bit more context surrounding some of the textual examples. And the epilogue is frustrating in that it hints at some much larger, more interesting arguments that could be made that we weren't given in the book.
I love a book that opens up a different world, that sympathetically communicates how those inhabited that world saw it. This book was not quite to the level of Lewis's Discarded Image, which performs a similar task for the medieval world, but Tillyard does give the reader the tools to understand references to and, more importantly, appreciate the beauty of the idea of the great chain of being in Elizabethan literature.
This book, by a Shakespeare scholar now deceased, is an attempt to get at the underlying assumptions held by the English during, roughly, the Tudor period. By "underlying assumptions" are meant views and presuppositions so ordinary, so common as to be unremarkable and, so, often pass unremarked. To read the literature of the period without knowledge of these prevalent beliefs, particularly as they differ from our own, is to misread it, at the very least to miss much of its implication.
Let me start by saying that I really like this book. Though in Shakespearean scholarship it tends to be considered as an oldie, I think it's one of the most fundamental works you need to read in order to introduce yourself to the Elizabethan world. Tillyard's style is clear and full of examples, which makes this book not only theoretical, but also a great text to use if you're looking for illustrative 16th century quotes.
I am so confused as to why he doesn't use commas when listing things, and also why he lists things so often. And also he doesn't use commas in other important comma-related places. Is it my copy? Is it the publisher? Is it the author? What is going on? It's like a bunch of words thrown together for no reason.But if you can get some sense out of it, it's kind of interesting.
An intelligent overview of the world as seen through the eyes of the Elizabethans. During an age when the old certainties were changing rapidly the Elizabethans nevertheless clung to the world view as formulated during the middle ages. Here the humours, the great chain of being, and the elements all find their place. Thoroughly fascinating.
An elegant little work placing (post-)Renaissance literature firmly in the context (or 'paradigm') of the classical and medieval philosophy of nature. Special consideration is meted out to the notion of the Chain of Being and the relationship between - personal - Microcosm and - social - Macrocosm.
