https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/722667.The_Dream_Quest_of_Unknown_Kadath
Paradoxically, it is also both his most far-flung fantasy and his most revealing personal work.Before The Dream Quest came the short stories influenced primarily by Poe and organized around a single effect (“The Ousider” to “Pickman's Model,” 1921–1926) and after came the Cthlulu-mythos novellas set in haunted, particularized landscapes (“The Colour Out of Space” to “The Haunter in the Dark,” 1927–1935).
It is set in the city of Providence, Rhode Island, realized with particular descriptive detail, and its hero—whatever his origins--looks a lot like H.P. Lovecraft himself.
*Opens the door*My friend, The Dreamlands  of Dylath-Leen, Ulthar, Oriab, Celephaïs, even the accursed Plateau of Leng and the unknown golden city of Kadath awaits your pre... I love Lovecraft's tales from Cthulhu cycle, but his Dream cycle tales and I have a rocky relationship. And Dream-quest of Unknown Kadath is THE Dream cycle tale. It tells the odyssey of Carter through the vast dreamlands to find the mysterious unknown city, Kadath. As Carter progresses through his quest, he gets kidnappe
And Dream-quest of Unknown Kadath is THE Dream cycle tale.
It tells the odyssey of Carter through the vast dreamlands to find the mysterious unknown city, Kadath.
Now, I disagree with Lovecraft about the quality of Charles Dexter Ward, but his instinct about Kadath is quite accurate.It's crap.Okay, that's a bit harsh.
Nevertheless, Dream-quest is an important tale as Lovecraft weaves characters and stories from his previous works to this gigantic dream.
Lovecraft has never connected so many short stories together like this in any of his other works.
When it comes to Lovecraft's Dream cycles, the shorter the stories are, the better.
CUT!Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath craft beer commercial take 26:Cthulhu: I drink Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath craft beer because it tastes great.RC: and I drink it ‘cause it’s less filling.
It’s the Dream Cycle side of Lovecraft’s canon, while referencing the darker Cthulhu stories, it is more fantasy than horror –Cthulhu: that’s right Nancy – CUT!Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath craft beer commercial take 42:RC: Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath craft beer, clean and refreshing, harkening back to a more whimsical, fantastic time of Edgar Rice Burroughs and L.
So it took almost 40 years (and a homage novella written this year by Kij Johnson) to make me come back to these nightmares realms ruled by malefic gods.At the start of the quest, Randolph Carter looks to me like a scion of John Carter of Mars : he goes to sleep and wakes up in an alternate world, where he is carving out a kingdom for himself with daring sword and unflinching courage.
Lovecraft Illustrated Volume 1Contents:ix - Introduction by S.T. Joshi003 - "The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath" by H.P. Lovecraft141 - HPL and PVS by Pete Von Sholly
Ima, dakle, upečatljivih slika, ali one potonu pod teretom neumereno kitnjastog jezika.I konačno ključni i zaključni problem: (view spoiler)[završetak je maltene jedini momenat kad postane zaista bitno i prisutno to što Karter SANJA celu svoju potragu.
I taj momenat se iskoristi samo za neverovatno antiklimaktičnu varijaciju "a onda sam se probudio" završetka uz obilat dodatak sentimenta koji je bukvalno kao preslikan završetak Čarobnjaka iz Oza. A to nije pohvala.
This volume would be better if it contained the, Cats of Ulthar and other tales.
A better collection can be had for free online.
Beware, Dream-quest has subject matter repugnant to many.The Silver Key and Through the Gates of the Silver Key, are my two favorite mythos stories.
As for you, find a better collection.
Celephais, White Ship, and the Strange High House in the Mist, are reviewed under their titles.Here is my preferred order, assuming you read all of the Dreamlands: Hypnos as best introduction-- then chronological, Doom that Came to Sarnath, Quest of Iranon, the Other Gods, Hypnos, Cats of Ulthar, Celephais, Strange High House, Dreamquest, Silver Key, Through the Gates, The White Ship.
At least I can say this book didn’t beat me - I read the whole damn thing *pats self on back*.I used to think back in the first half of the last century that authors were paid by the word.
Now pump him full of LSD and magic mushrooms et voila, Lovecraft.So, the story…as descriptive as it was, and as weird as it was, was overwhelmingly boring.
This is the story of his travels through dreamland in search of this city.
My dreamland is better than his.
Really, everyone’s dreamland is better than his.
Only people who’ve previously read Lovecraft should look at it.
The lack of dialogue shouldn't be a surprise to any Lovecraft lover, but the imaginative way this story is told and filled with unearthly creatures while the protagonist is searching for a way to get to his destination should be enough to overlook that.The main character is Randolph Carter who meets many strange and terrifying beings on his journey; beings like zoogs, ghasts, gugs, nightgaunts and so on.
Whatever Randolph Carter encounters, whatever happens to him on his journey, he never stops going forward.
Even Nyarlathotep has a role to play.Now, you can choose to read this story partly as a commentary on society.
Αν το παραλληλίσεις με την "αρχέγονη αναζήτηση του άγνωστου εαυτού", είναι ακόμα πιο τρομακτικό και συγκλονιστικό. Αξεπέραστος Λάβκραφτ. Ήμουν συνοδοιπόρος του Κάρτερ κάθε στιγμή. Ήμουν κι εγώ εκεί.
People read that he influenced the modern greats, everyone form authors like Stephen King and Clive Barker, to movie makers like John Carpenter and Wes Craven, and then dive into his books expecting the same fare.
His mind-bending, first person surrealistic approach to a creeping, nameless horror stunned and fascinated huge segments of early century America.
The America that read, that is, which wasn't nearly what it is today.
They broke conventions and rearranged the way a future breed of horror authors would look at the world.
Even today, I find them stunningly original, and well worth the read.
Lovecraft’s The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath is one of his fantasy, rather than horror, stories.
It’s a book which really has no right to work.
There isn’t much of a plot, and Lovecraft’s prose is even more impossibly overblown and overelaborated and generally overdone than normal.
The prose is unbelievably purple, but it suits the dreamworld perfectly, and captures the right mood of impossibleness.
And the idea of the cats who, at night, climb to the highest rooftops and then leap to the dark side of the moon – it’s just a marvellous idea and it works beautifully.
the most boring lovecraft i have ever read.
a lot of mythology here but not really much story.
not sure when i will finish it.
*******i did go back and finish it but i must say it was excruciating.
again, this is the disappointment i felt when i began to read lord dunsany who had been cited as influential by so many, and found that there really wasn't much of a story but rather a beautiful picture of strange places and people.
so sadly, i will not be able to recommend this lovecraft.
Kubla Cthulu30 December 2017 While this rather long short story was not necessarily based upon the poem with an interesting background by Coleridge, it still reminded me of it quite a lot, except of the part where he is woken up halfway through his opium induced dream state by some guy from Portlock who refused to go away to get him get back to his trip (well, it didn't happen that way, but it still sounds cool). Actually, considering Lovecraft was a bit of a teatottler then descending into a he
Kubla Cthulu30 December 2017	While this rather long short story was not necessarily based upon the poem with an interesting background by Coleridge, it still reminded me of it quite a lot, except of the part where he is woken up halfway through his opium induced dream state by some guy from Portlock who refused to go away to get him get back to his trip (well, it didn't happen that way, but it still sounds cool).
Much like Kubla Khan, Carter has a dream of a beautiful and magnificent city, and decides that he must go and look for this city, however the only beings that happen to know the location of this city are the old gods of Earth.
Reading this was like slogging through quicksand.
I wanted to enjoy it, I really did, but I just couldn't.
I read at least 50 pages a day.
This 101 page book took me the entire month to read.
It's like Lovecraft sat down and said how many elaborate adjectives can I fit into each sentence.
I have an expansive vocabulary so I only had to lookup a word every few pages but I can imagine most people would need a dictionary every few sentences.
If Goodreads let you give half stars I would give this 2 & 1/2 stars because I wanted to like it but I just couldn't.
Όσο ονειρική ήταν η Αναζήτηση, τόσο μαγευτική ήταν και η εμπειρία ανάγνωσης αυτού του βιβλίου. Κι ας το καθυστέρησα, άξιζε πολύ. Για κάθε του λεπτομέρεια, για την ονειρική του γλώσσα, τις περιγραφές και τον δομημένο του ονειρόκοσμο. Κύριε Σκοτεινέ, μόνο εσύ ξέρεις πόσο σε αγαπάω για αυτό το δώρο.
Mystery hung about it as clouds about a fabulous unvisited mountain; and as Carter stood breathless and expectant on that balustraded parapet there swept up to him the poignancy and suspense of almost-vanished memory, the pain of lost things and the maddening need to place again what once had been an awesome and momentous place.My Thoughts: Although it took me an unforgivably long time to get this whole story read, it was not through lack of interest, I assure you.
Others complain of Lovecraft's racism, but ignore the fact that he was just parroting the thoughts of the time.
Back in college, I worked for a few semesters shelving books in the sub-basements of the library, which for some reason set it's 3 floor at ground level.
Two floors below that was a largely-ignored fiction section, dimly lit by flickering lights that turned off automatically when no one was around.
The farther corners never really got direct light, giving the whole space a perfect kind of eerie-cozy twilight feel, and in retrospect, it was a pretty amazing place to work.
Not least because I usually kept up with my shelving pretty well and found time to browse the more esoteric sections when no one was around (almost always).
The Carter stories are particularly intriguing, telling of Randolph's search through the world of dream looking for a wonderful city to which the gods have denied him entrance - only to find that it is actually composed of his boyhood memories (Dream Quest...), his attempts to hold back the emotional collapse of middle age by dreaming himself firstly back into his own childhood, and then beyond (Silver Key) and finally into another dimension entirely, in which he becomes marooned (Through The Gates...) .
Something that one must keep in mind is that “The Dream-Quest to Unknown Kadath” is very much a first draft; Lovecraft wrote it, decided that it was bad and put it in a drawer (he was very critical with his own work).
Anyway, one of the best things about this novella is that it references most of Lovecraft’s body of work, especially those stories concerning Randolph Carter and what later became known as “the Dream Cycle”.
Indeed, if one is not acquainted with most of Lovecraft’s body of work that would end up being the story's main weakness, as most of it would seem disconnected.Great stuff.
Many parts of Randolph Carter's quest dip bizarrely into the realm of half-finished high-schooler fantasy stories (by highly talented, highly addled high schoolers I suppose) in their contrivances and silliness.There lies a great twist at the end.
I forced myself to finish this book, because I knew this is the work where Lovecraft pastiches and fan works (like the Call of Cthulhu roleplaying game, which is awesome) pull from the most, and I knew most of these stories get better at the end.
I have read parts of Lovecraft's Dream Cycle before, not knowing that they tied together in any way. The prose in this novella is superb, in my opinion, and the quest is compelling. I expect to read this again in the future.
When I was younger, I much preferred Lovecraft’s horror stories to his dream-fantasies, but now I would say that he may have allowed his imagination more freedom in the dream stories, and thus actually wrote more originally, if not necessarily “better” in this venue.“The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath” is the first, as well as the title of the collection, and it represents the culmination of many short-pieces set in the dream world.
Here, by taking the format of the epic quest, Lovecraft is able to map out his dream world, and to give Carter’s position and actions in it some greater meaning.
When I was a kid I always found myself drawn to exploring the many drawers and cabinets that seemed to multiply through the floors of our home, in particular I was always attracted to one low drawer filled with paperback novels , many of them pulp romances and mysteries but including a boxed set of the tales of H.
While considered by many to be racist, pulp trash, so that some libraries are only now including him in their collections, Lovecraft also spawned legions of cultural references from his invented Cthulhu mythos, from metal songs to tentacle porn to even lolthulhus.
I can't believe some people think that something like Kadath could be better than Dunsany's fantasy works.Let's face it : those dream stories are mostly bad imitations of Dunsany.
He only has those adjectives he dearly loves, sadly the stuff he's writing here, unlike cosmic horror, can't work with only this.
Some people think the "many adjectives" thing to be appropriate for this work, even if it was true, Lovecraft just doesn't know how to use it properly, unlike, say, Clark Ashton Smith.
Many readers must think : "it is Lovecraft, it's different but surely good, a masterpiece", and they don't know what they're talking about.
I don't have much hope though, particularly after reading part of the Wikipedia article on it, which gives Lovecraft's own views, which echo my own:"Lovecraft himself declared that 'it isn't much good; but forms useful practice for later and more authentic attempts in the novel form.' He expressed concern while writing it that 'Randolph Carter's adventures may have reached the point of palling on the reader; or that the very plethora of weird imagery may have destroyed the power of any one image to produce the desired impression of strangeness."[8]In the paragraph preceding this one in Wikipedia, Joanna Russ sums up the work nicely:"The Dream-Quest has evoked a broad range of reactions, "some HPL enthusiasts finding it almost unreadable and others...comparing it to the Alice books and the fantasies of George MacDonald.[6] Joanna Russ referred to The Dream-Quest as "charming...but alas, never rewritten or polished".
This book was my introduction to the worlds of HP Lovecraft.
I found it in the library, was enthralled for some reason by the title, and took it home to read it.
Lovecraft's imagination takes flight in his descriptions of the Dreamlands, with exotic creatures and locales abounding, and a strange little mission undertaken to petition the gods of that land.
This book is not horror, but high fantasy without elves and swords, rare in these days of Tolkienesque pastiche.
Buy it, read it, and your imagination may never be the same again.
I feel like I should be calling him "august Lovecraft" or something like that, since unknown Kadath was mentioned in exactly that fashion about seven thousand times.I also admit I was more than lost with the variety of place names for which I had almost no reference.
Like, I've played a board game with some of the places and such, but I still am not sure about the significance or just...why?The description was also too much.
So, yes, the description just got me bogged down and bored.
The narration mimics the churning of dreams to a fault, in their ceaseless wheeling, reeling, spinning, unraveling, haltering, scooting,...In the living maze of events there is no lack of dead-ends, u-turns, desire-paths, unforeseen developments, and yet the story remains invested with some selfsame and tangible presence throughout.Not to mention the series of apexes in the course of the plot.As a result, this ranks as a top-tier brand of sheer, unfettered fantasy!Osmotic Soundtrack :Azathoth 1 - Cryo ChamberAzathoth 2 - Cryo Chamber
Na samoj naslovnici ovog izdanja navodi se ova marketinška rečenica; "Jedan od najspektakularnijih ikada napisanih fantasy avantura." Problem žanrovske klasifikacije i nije toliko velik.
Lovecraft piše "weird fiction" te je i ovaj roman ukalupljen u navedeni žanr.
Bla, bla, bla.Elementi weird fictiona su brojna čudovišta i bića, niz nepoznatih dimenzija, činjenica da je glavni lik znanstvenik koji odbacuje scijentizam te ponire u okultno, somnambulna atmosfera...Na engleskj stranici Wikipedije, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dre..., piše da je Beckfordov "Vathek" , https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..., bio uzor Lovecraftu pri pisanju ovog romana.
Ovaj roman bi kao drugotni žanr prije ulazio u domenu gotskog žanra nego u nekakav fantasy.Sadržajno djelo se bazira na lucidnom sanjanju i gnostičkoj potrazi za smislom.
