https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11876.Set_This_House_On_Fire
A heinous case of abuse.
And by that, I mean an author abusing his readers.
Sure, the novel is about rape and murder, but at any point in the book, from the first chapter to the last, you will feel more violated than any of the characters, whether it's due to grown men referring to other grown men as "dollbaby," scenes of alcoholic drunkenness that go on for dozens and dozens of pages, female characters treated as either pieces of meat or helpless elfin fairies, the author's (and characters') logorrhea, and the desperate ennui born of you just not caring what happened in the past or what happens in the present to any of these people.
I eliminate William Styron's "Set This House on Fire," figuring I'd wait to re-read that excellent novel next year.
Self-destructive, awash in drink, Kinsolving was an easy target for a handsome millionaire like Flagg, "with the hungry look of a man who knew he could own you if you'd only let him." As a movie crew and other partiers buzz around him, Flagg feeds on Kinsolving's humiliation until things finally take a deadly turn.One feels gluttonous reading Styron's words, particularly in this novel's first half.
I read this book when I was an undergraduate years ago.
The dashing charm of the corrupt boyish American millionaire, Mason Flagg, matched against the primitive male courage of Cass Kinsolving, the tough Southern Marine turned painter.This was great stuff for me as a young thing.
Styron is clearly working off an ancient grudge when the cowardly Yankee turns and runs the minute the southern boy picks up a rock and gives the rebel yell.
More than that, a Southerner who is really looking for redemption has got to go beyond the old, soothing stereotypes of sniveling Yankee cowards and fearless southern chivalry.
die Symbolik ein bisschen arg dick aufgetragen ist.Etwa wenn der längst als impotenter Wüstling entlarvte Jugendfreund Mason Flagg versucht ein Dienstmädchen zu vergewaltigen, während das Finale Erster Akt von Don Giovanni läuft, wo dem Titelhelden von Mozarts Oper sein Verführungsversuch an der Magd Zerlina misslingt.Aber im zweiten Teil, der weitgehend aus der Säuferbeichte des Malers Cassius Kinsolvig besteht, wuchert der impressionistisch-existenzialistisch überwürzte erzählerische Hefeteig derart unkontrolliert, dass ich nur einen Stern vergeben kann.Der inzwischen trockene Künstler, der bei mir stark unter Spaltproduktverdacht seht, tischt Styrons offiziellem alter ego Peter Leverett (eine Art bürgerlicher Pre-Stingo), auf 340 Seiten unwidersprochen und maximaler Ausführlichkeit ein derartiges Garn über die Nacht seines Mordes und die Vorgeschichte auf, dass es einem davon schlecht werden kann, zumal gut 100 Seiten reichlich für den Inhalt ausgereicht hätten.
Peter Leverett, at the beginning of the book, has invited himself to visit Kinsolving some years after the Sambuco incident, making the entire novel a back story.
Except that I kept reading to find out.You see, I just cannot write succinctly about what became a tangled, endless, reflective story involving the examination of so many heavy themes: evil, domination, art, redemption, love, and violence.Putting Set This House on Fire into the context of 1960 novels, there are certain parallel topics.
A convoluted mess of a book, which was roundly panned when it came out after the incredible debut of "Lie down in darkness". I remember throwing myself eagerly on this book and giving up, totally puzzled, a third of the way through. The prose was excellent as always, but the characters felt totally flat and un-engaging. Fortunately Styron redeemed himself with Nat Turner and Sophie's Choice.
Out of all of Styron's books, I just could not get into this at all. Moving on...
I really didn't have the itch to make time to read it, until the last quarter of the book, .
I'm not one to skim much either, but with this monster, I found myself skimming through pages for plot points, events, and dialog - particularly as I moved past the half way point.
I don't mind the theme of alcoholism, but in this book, due to length of read, slowness of plot, and small character set, it just seemed to always be there.
It became a burden to the reader, rather than an important character attribute woven into the plot.
I must confess, this wasn’t the book I was looking for when I wandered out into the stacks at the main branch of the Brooklyn Public Library with my sights set on William Styron’s  Sophie’s Choice . (I’d always enjoyed the movie immensely and wanted, finally, to give the author his due.) Unfortunately, my sights were not to be satisfied:  Sophie’s Choice  was out; and so, I settled for Styron’s Set This House on Fire, a book I’d never even heard of and consequently knew nothing about.In spite of
I must confess, this wasn’t the book I was looking for when I wandered out into the stacks at the main branch of the Brooklyn Public Library with my sights set on William Styron’s 
was out; and so, I settled for Styron’s Set This House on Fire, a book I’d never even heard of and consequently knew nothing about.In spite of the rave reviews and blurbs on both the front and back covers of the book, I shouldn’t have bothered.There are certainly moments and entire passages that let a reader understand why Styron has the reputation he has.
William Styron has crafted an electrifying and deeply unsettling novel of rape, murder, and suicide -- a work with a Dostoevskian insight into the dreadful persuasiveness of evil.-- The New York Times Book ReviewThat's the first part of the novel -- absolutely brilliant writing.But, the novel grinds down to an incredibly boring monologue - absolutely unreadable. Couldn't force myself to finish the book.
he's a master framer. a raging alcoholic, an insatiable genius, a gullible observer, a rainbow of beautiful women--they all appear throughout his works, shades of each in the other. part of it is set in italy. i love his writing.
Styron takes on a decidedly purple hue in this gargantua. An additional 100 pages of philosophizing by a cop named Luigi doesn't help. But, when Styron hits, he hits hard. Macho page count, minor novel.
What can I say - I read this a while ago. William Styron is the bee's knees. He makes me feel drunk.
The story begins with Peter Leverette narrating the story, telling the reader that if there is a hero to this story, it is Cass Kinsolving.About the 50%-mark...there is a revelation of sorts.
They are on a boat in North Carolina.Mason and Peter are from Virginia, but much of what happened, happened in Italy, where Cass entered the telling.There is an Italian policeman, Luigi, who is a central figure.There are a host of other characters, a mass of movie people, and their role in the story I haven't quite figured out.
This book is nowhere near as good as Styron's stunning debut novel, Lie Down in Darkness*, but it was interesting in a few ways.
Anyway, the book is full of paragraphs that are clearly Styron revealing his rants/deep dark secrets/recollections/theories, and while I am totally OK with that, I would think he could have made at least a little more effort to actually make said rants/deep dark secrets/recollections/theories function as a novel.
In the last half of Set This House on Fire, pages and pages and pages go by and you suddenly remember this is supposedly one guy talking to his friend about an experience they shared years earlier, but the other guy hasn't said anything for, like, an hour.
Styron seems to think it is interesting for characters to rant eccentrically about whatever is on their mind, but I would disagree, and I soon started skipping all rants.
Half way through, the book becomes fairly unreadable as it changes focus to a different character.
I tried reading this for a while but it was so annoying that I just skimmed the second half to see how everything was tied up, which it was in a perfunctory fashion.I suppose this is good for Styron fans.
I've never read any of his books before and certainly never will again.
Set This House on Fire plays on the idea of salvation within the framework of crime and punishment. It uses the means of Gothic romance for developing this salvation story of Cass Kinsolving even though it does not follow Gothic conventions step by step. It borrows from the structure of confessional literature for presenting plot within a plot but not limits itself with the inner dynamics. It imitates Greek tragedy while presenting dramatic characters. All in all, it is, somehow, an experimental gateway for Styron’s later works. Tough nut to crack, but worth it…
Not the cover of the edition I read. The one I had was an old paperback published after WS's preceding work. I picked this up because of the author but was not rewarded. Pretty much a total crap fest once the action gets to the Villa/movie set. Some interesting asides such as the depiction of rural poverty in post-war Italy but awful for the rest of it. Why the high ratings???
What I remember about this? Rolling my eyes, yawning, and looking forward to the end. Oh yeah, and there was a tepid orgy scene too.
A great deal of philosophical discussion concerning good, evil, and God's Grace set in post-WWII Italy. Some beautiful prose, just far too much of it.
Not my favorite Styron, but still pretty darn good. Styron writes well about guilt and its impact on how we live.
3.5
Was thoroughly enjoying this novel which seemed to me a "mash-up" of "The Great Gatsby" and "Beautiful Ruins", with its elegant language and engaging dialogue. Then I got to Part 2. While I understand that this is a study in guilt and redemption, still I found that the internalized ramblings of inebriate Cass were tedious and self-indulgent and went on and on for pages and pages. Finally, and thankfully, it came to a satisfactory ending.
O tom, a natureza, o cunho de tudo quanto antes aconteceu ficam registados na memória com terrível sentimento de predestinação.”“Tentar comunicar com aquele indivíduo era o mesmo que meter mensagens em garrafas e atirá-las ao mar sem-fim”“- Um homem não pode viver sem um foco, sem qualquer espécie de fé, se quiser chamar-lhe assim.”“Tento rezar, mas só consigo pensar que me apetece fornicar.”“nenhum italiano deseja matar-se a não ser à sua maneira própria.”“tiro uma fotografia a um amigo, com uma dessas máquinas Polaroid […] ao curvar-me para examinar a fotografia, não encontro o meu amigo, e sim a imagem de um monstro terrível e misterioso…”“uma loura de combustão lenta chamada Carole”“O sexo é a última fronteira”“uma pessoa rica não tem amigos verdadeiros, além de si mesma…”“As mulheres são uma raça diferente, Peter!
Мейсон часто меняет девушек и каждая из них всегда без ума от него.Не смотря на то что он может позволить дойти до рукоприкладства во время ссор, все равно это не меняет отношения влюбленных в него жертв.
Думаю, этот избалованный американец вполне мог считать, что эта убогая женщина может только гордится тем, что на нее позарился такой видный красавчик.
Но он не мог быть убийцей не смотря на все это, на его вспыльчивый характер и привычку ко вседозволенности.
Все-же что-то в нем было такое необычное, из-за чего в конце концов мне было грустно читать о его смерти.
Keď sa totiž vezme príbeh, ktorý by taký McEwan vybavil s minimálnymi stratami brisknou novelou, rozvláčni sa do tisícok mimochodných parentéz, a zverí prekladateľke, ktorá úporným úsilím o presnosť spomalí ťažkopádnymi mennými konštrukciami a doslovizmami tempo rozprávania z melasového do asfaltovitého, výsledkom je čosi, na čom len ťažko hľadať pozitíva.
Pre Styrona ambíciami nadviazať na úspešný debut, pre prekladateľku kilometrovými vetami, len na čo to všetko, keď potom vyzerajú takto: "Závan vetra uchytil zdrap novín a vyniesol ho vysoko nad vilu; zakrútil sa v šialenom víre, skĺzol po okraji strechy, poskakoval medzi prázdnymi vlajkovými žrďami a s vírením odlietal preč od vybuchujúceho zmučeného mora."?
I had not read Styron for many years since reading Sophie's Choice at least a decade ago, if not more.
Unlike Sophie's Choice, which I loved, I really struggled to finish this book.
Of the three main characters, Peter, the narrator, Mason, the privileged and sleazy poseur, and Cass, the failed, self-absorbed artist, only Cass elicited any sympathy from me despite his monstrous crime.
And despite some wondrously lyrical prose, the casual and cruel racism, misogyny, and xenophobia were really hard to take.
I'm afraid it will be a long while before I read another book by Styron.
This was one of the most frustrating reads I have ever put myself through. I would have stopped after the first few chapters, but there was enough of a plot buried in all the unnecessary language to keep me interested. The only way I managed to finish was to skim over all the drunk ravings and pontifications, and the endless needless descriptions, and focus on the occasional sentence or two that actually advanced the story. I did read Sophie's Choice, also by Styron, years ago and don't remember it being nearly this difficult to get through.
Excellent writer and does not disappoint in beautifully drawn vignettes and fabulous descriptions. A bit long and involved but writing carries you through.So many references to issues of today even though set in post wwII time. The rule of mammon and the take over of political structure by appealing to the lowest denominator. Never read Lie Down in Darkness and may have to do so to add to Confessions of Nat Turner and Sophie's Choice
A heavy read, one that requires concentration. Writing that it almost intimidating in its power. The story is seemingly known very early, and the bulk of the book concerns itself with explaining it and revealing that which was assumed incorrectly. Deep, dark and revealing.
