https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40940649-i-am-legend
"I am legend". These words make me shudder. But if you have only seen that Will Smith movie that went 180 degrees on the book's message, the soul-crushing impact of these words will be lost on you.That makes me sad...To quote Stephen King, "I think the author who influenced me the most as a writer was Richard Matheson." This was enough of a recommendation for me to go and dig up this book. And it's great.  (view spoiler)["Full circle. A new terror born in death, a new superstition entering the u
But if you have only seen that Will Smith movie that went 180 degrees on the book's message, the soul-crushing impact of these words will be lost on you.That makes me sad...To quote Stephen King, "I think the author who influenced me the most as a writer was Richard Matheson." This was enough of a recommendation for me to go and dig up this book.
The story of the lone righteous hero, the brave vampire hunter has a sure guaranteed readers' appeal (I, for instance, adore Stephen King's Salem's Lot).
I loved this book! Was very creepy to read.I thought it was brillant from beginning to end.One of my favourite books of all time ever!That ending! WOW
The book just drops you right in the middle of Robert Neville's situation, which is a day to day existence of killing vampires during the day & hiding in his house during the night.I'm the kind of SF reader who likes a bit of depth to be given to the cause of disaster, and this story largely glosses over the "Why?"But I'm coming at it from the angle of a reader who has exhausted the zombie/vampire/virus genre.
I just re-read this after watching some of the movies based on it.
It's truly a chilling book.
It's well worth reading.There are 3 movies that I know of that are based on this book.
This follows the book pretty closely.The Omega Man starring Charleton Heston in 1972 is very loosely based on the novel, but a great look at the 60's & 70's attitudes.
I Am Legend starring Will Smith in 2008 or so is the one I haven't seen yet.
I expected to see a Toon driving, not Will Smith.Update: I did finally see this movie including both endings.
Cesar Romero cites the book as a primary source, Stephen King alsao makes reference to it.On the positive side, two aspects of the novel stand out and will probably come to define it for me in later years as the actual details of the plot will fade from memory:- the psychological pressure of being the last man on earth : Richard Neville is utterly alone, he has nobody to turn to, has lost his wife and kid in horrible circumstances, yet he must find the resources inside himself to go on living from day to day.
The episode of the feral dog is probably the best written part of the whole novel.- the implications resulting from the demotion of humanity from the top of the food chain, something that I have remarked upon in another classic I read earlier this year (The Day of the Triffids).
But really, I Am Legend isn’t strictly a vampire book.
The novel opens with our protagonist Robert Neville as the putative last man on Earth.
The human race is either dead or turned into vampires (Or both?
I Am Legend begins well into the vampire apocalypse, introducing Robert as a man who has learned to survive.
Matheson makes a rather daring literary choice in not giving Robert anyone or anything to play off of.
The point of view is strictly confined to Robert and what he is seeing, feeling, thinking.
This was creepy and sad too. I don't think I would have lasted long as the last person alive. I would have just given up and let myself get caught! The vampires of this story are quite zombie like, I thought. How events turn out in the end surprised me.
But, as Matheson so beautifully states, "Man can get used to anything", and so he does - burning corpses left on his doorstep by his vampire "friends", gathering fresh garlic, and fixing up his house for them to come back each night and try to drag him out.Robert, the main character, spends years in this manner.
In this way, Richard Matheson gives us the first realistic look at vampires from a scientific standpoint.
The most heart-wrenching moment (A phrase I do not use lightly) comes when a female vampire looks at Robert and tells him "I had a husband.
1. I'd like to take this opportunity to apologize for all of the Will Smith jokes.
Stuff I liked - Matheson does an amazing job in describing the situation Neville has deal with as the only person left in the world.
The scariest parts for me where when Matheson deals with themes like isolation and loneliness.
That stuff was much more terrifying than the vampires (more on them later).
Those chapters along with the glimpse into Neville's past with his family were really, really good.
Stuff I didn't like - vampires.
(Don't do it, Justin.
it............Click "Save", Justin.
Por momentos sólo quiere matarse con la bebida, en otras ocasiones, quiere dejarlo todo y dejarse atrapar por los vampiros, pero su soledad lo obliga a seguir adelante, puesto que considera que es el último hombre vivo no infectado sobre la tierra que se ilusiona con encontrar otros como él.A partir de la mitad del libro, se darán un par de situaciones que cambiarán la naturaleza de la historia, y la harán más atractiva aún, ya que Matheson nunca permite que esta caiga en el aburrimiento o la inacción.
I Am Legend by Richard MathesonMy rating: 4 of 5 starsBlurb: Robert Neville is the last man left alive on Earth...but he is not alone. Every other man, woman and child on the planet has become a vampire. Neville spends his days scavenging for food and supplies, and hunting down the undead in their lairs in the ruins of civilisation. At night, he becomes the hunted and barricades himself in his home, waiting and praying for the dawn.I Am Legend was one of the first, and certainly the most bril
Its powerful and disturbing reworking of the vampire myth has made it a classic and enduring novel that has had a profound impact on generations of writersThoughts: Having seen Omega Man and the recent Will Smith movie adaptation and heard a few different people talking about the differences in the book I managed to put together a strange 'ideal' composite of what I imagined this novel to be, leaving me in the strange situation of having three stories going through my mind whilst reading an entirely different fourth one.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.I don’t like vampire novels much, so I wasn’t planning to read Richard Matheson’s classic vampire story I am Legend which was published in 1954, is also known by the title The Omega Man, and is, of course, the basis for the movie I am Legend.But then I recently read and was enthralled by two other books by Matheson: The Incredible Shrinking Man and Steel and Other Stories.
I ached for Robert Neville and a few of Matheson’s scenes had me in tears.The story is called I am Legend because Robert Neville gradually comes to realize that vampires, the creatures he thought were only legend, are real.
(hide spoiler)]The book's story is in at least some ways different from the movie besides Robert's looks - like the dog(view spoiler)[being a brown-white mutt, who never tames and dies soon; that Robert is a mere plant worker who has to work to understand how to use a microscope to do research and read to understand; LA not NY; no contact-search with radio...
(hide spoiler)] Reading was sometimes hard to continue, but that was just me being nervous - the story flowed nicely and without extra padding.And the way it ends is both (view spoiler)[frightening and tragic: seeing those ferals being destroyed, then being taken to be executed into the more-civilized and day-walking vampire camp.

I know I was complaining about sqeeing and gifs recently, but I can't help but think a classic book like this could use a little modern reviewing.Summary: I'm a little mixed in my reading reactions to a novella that feels more like a self-conscious allegorical tale than truly innovative storytelling.
Given the protagonist Neville's relatively easy ability in moving around the world (seems to take a little siphoned gas and he's go to go), I felt like it was an incomplete story that left me with many questions about the world.
He said: "When it comes to this story, there is no movie; there is just the book".The story is Robert Neville's, the last man on Earth after a strange plague has turned every other human being into a vampire.
It made me think of all those atrocious zombie TV shows (yes, "Walking Dead", I mean you!) where it gets to a point where you just want the dumb characters to get caught and bitten already, because they have committed so many atrocities to stay alive that they can't really be referred to as protagonists anymore.I also loved the way this book is a very self-aware vampire story.
I read it years ago and while I find the writing in places rates my recognition of it's quality...I don't care for the book.Like some of Matheson's other works there are some questions that (to me) are so glaring as to be blinding while the story simply goes along it's merry way doing it's best to ignore them (view spoiler)[(The protagonist came down with a weakened form of the "vampire microbe", his immune system beat it, and he's immune.
(hide spoiler)]Please don't get upset if I have dissed one of your favorite books...it happens to me here all the time.
Years ago, you see, my husband had wanted to talk about the book, probably when the most recent adaptation to movie form had come out, and I am well known for not reading horror, so it wasn't an unreasonable assumption that I would never read this.So, wrong, in the long run, but it made reading this for the first time a very different experience than it would be for someone who was going into it cold.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
Quickly he pushed a metal wagon up and down the silent, dust-thick aisles, the heavy smell of decay setting his teeth on edge, making him breathe through his mouth.”This book was adapted into a 1964 film called “The Last Man on Earth” (the first of several adaptations).
Robert Neville, the protagonist, is indeed “The Last Man on Earth” (as far as he knows), the rest of the planet having turned into vampires.
I love the scientific rationalization of the classic vampire lore, the need for blood, the aversion to garlic and the cross, the stake through the heart etc.
In both the Omega Man and the Will Smith movies the vampires are replaced entirely.
Turns out, I did lag behind anyway because even though we both finished I Am Legend pretty close to each other, my edition also had a selection of short stories written by Richard Matheson.
Although what I've found really weird about my reading experience is that I did not cast Will Smith as the role of Richard Neville in my head - Abbie said she did.I really liked this book, which was surprising to me given that its basically focused on one character.
Matheson's writing is simply outstanding and I want to read more.With regards to the short stories, some were great and some were not so great.
His anger, depression, frustration and fear are thrown up against the desire to live almost every moment of every day and there are some when you're not sure which will win.Some of the issues brought up are unique to the fact that Robert Neville is a man alone in the world and many weren't concepts I'd considered before.
I found the distinction between the living and dead infected brilliant, and I was always interested in any theory Robert Neville posed because it was always well thought out and well presented.
I knew she'd be the end of Robert Neville though I didn't know how exactly.
When the story had action scenes, they were done very well, and there is a wonderfully suspenseful and thrilling chase scene in the first half of the book.
However, action, suspense and thrills were absent for most of the rest of the book.There is sad reminiscing of his past life.There is a long drawn out sequence of attempting to befriend a stray dog.There is lots of time spent getting drunk, listening to classical music while complaining about the vampires.The vampires mostly lack charisma, being more dumb brutes, than anything else (view spoiler)[ until late in the novel.
(hide spoiler)]When I give a book three stars, it's because I know I'll never re-read it.
I enjoy being alone. There's some kind of peace in loneliness. I'm never more happy than when I'm by myself. I've said, though, that if the loneliness if forced upon me, it's not so glorious. Robert Neville's situation is similar to this latter one.In first instance, when I came upon this book, it reminded me of The Last Man by Mary Shelley. In both books, the hero is, or believes to be, the last man on Earth. The rest of humanity had died because of a plague. In TLM it was some cold, and in IA
Robert Neville's situation is similar to this latter one.In first instance, when I came upon this book, it reminded me of The Last Man by Mary Shelley.
In the meanwhile, I recommend this book, and if you in fact read it, I would not complain if you came to this review to tell me your opininon about the ending.
I AM LEGEND, by Richard Matheson is one of his "longer" stories, that I hadn't previously read. This is a vampire tale, but one very unique to this genre. The last survivor in a plague that left humanity dead--or, undead--Richard Neville has spent the past three years learning everything he can about what caused this change. Many are the days when he wonders why he even bothers to go on, when everyone around him is "lost". ". . . In a world of monotonous horror there could be no salvation in wil
I AM LEGEND, by Richard Matheson is one of his "longer" stories, that I hadn't previously read.
This is a vampire tale, but one very unique to this genre.
The last survivor in a plague that left humanity dead--or, undead--Richard Neville has spent the past three years learning everything he can about what caused this change.
The story itself was captivating enough, but the ending that Matheson leaves on was what truly earned my admiration.
Just when you think you've read it all, a classic tale such as this comes your way.....Highly recommended!
A novel that has been both heavily criticized and revered, I Am Legend straddles an uneasy line between Horror and Science Fiction.
However, there is no denying its influence, nor its simple charm.
In comparison with some of the 'vampire' drivel being served up today, this little novel is indeed legend.
It ranks with Salem's Lot as one of my favourite reads on the vampire mythos.
I know that the science isn't sound, but Matheson has done a terrific job of introducing new ways to broach the subject of vampirism.
And has ever a novel captured loneliness such as this?
This book has been made into four seperate film adaptations.
I read this AFTER seeing all four films, and none of those movies had anywhere near the impact the book did on me.
It's incredibly well written and I was a little stunned when I found out it was first published in the 50's.
Brings to mind the old adage 'they don't make 'em like they used to!'Matheson was a trailblazer and I am Legend was instrumental in the popularization of the apocalypse caused by global disease and the vampire/zombie apocalypse genres.
If you're at all interested in visiting the origins of these incredibly popular genres, start here.
Για παράδειγμα: Ο Will Smith (συγχωρήστε μου ότι ξεχνάω το όνομα του χαρακτήρα, πάνε χρόνια που διάβασα το βιβλίο, αφήστε που λόγω της ταινίας έχω ταυτίσει τον ήρωα με τον ηθοποιό) έχει μείνει μόνος του στον κόσμο μετά από μια vampire (διόρθωση!) apocalypse.
Στην ταινία έχει ως μόνη συντροφιά το σκύλο του, ενώ στο βιβλίο είναι εντελώς μόνος και μετά βρίσκει το σκύλο (επίσης συγχωρήστε μου ότι δεν θυμάμαι αν είναι ο δικός του ή ένας οποιοσδήποτε σκύλος που τον υιοθετεί).
Χαρακτηριστικά επίσης θυμάμαι τη συζήτηση με ένα φίλο που τον πείραζα για σπόιλερ και τον απειλούσα ότι θα του διαβάσω την τελευταία φράση του βιβλίου.
La normalità della maggioranza L'impatto di un'opera come "Io sono leggenda", tanto nel suo genere q
This is definitely one of the Grand-daddies of the Post-Apocalyptic/Dystopian/Virus/Monsters-taking-over-the-world stories.This book had to be a commentary on where Matheson thought we were headed as a society - not just a simple tale of vampires created by a virus.It is amazing how much he fits in to a 160 page book. I am thinking that Matheson must have been a master of telling a lot of story in very few pages. A very suspenseful and quick read. This would be a great choice for horror fans, post apocalyptic fans, and vampire fans
Odlična knjiga. 10 puta bolja od filma i sa krajem koji ima smisla i zbog čega je postao legenda :)Knjiga se bavi idejom da je zemlju prekrila pošast vampirizma i prati Nevila u pokušaju da preživi i razume svoj novi svet. Bilo šta višpe reći će samo da kvari čitanje tako da ćutim.Preporuka za čitanje i ako ste gledali film ne brinite knjiga je daleko bolja.
