https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/930182.The_Eight_of_Swords
While Gideon Fell is not my favorite among Carr's detectives (that would be Sir Henry Merrivale), he appears to advantage in this tricky murder case.
Septimus Depping, the man who rents a house from publisher Colonel Standish (and also has invested in Standish's firm) is found murdered under peculiar circumstances.
Everyone wants the murderer to be an outsider, and there's even a sinister one at hand--what can be better?
The ending is so memorable that I had no doubts as to whodunit, but the other side of that coin is that the spooky parts, which Carr writes well, are no longer too spooky when you know what's coming.
Each one has his own theory as to what happened and most of the time Fell is kind of off on the sidelines.As a mystery, it was pretty decent, but you have to wade through a lot of silliness and many farcical scenes to get there.
I don't know if a lot of people will have patience enough to deal with this, but if you continue to read, it's a pretty decent murder solution and I was surprised at the final resolution.
THE EIGHT OF SWORDS. (1986). John Dickson Carr. **. You can tell by my rating that this novel from Carr featuring Dr. Gideon Fell was not up to his usual standards. It involves the murder of an American living in England for the past five years. He was found in his study, shot through the head. He had the Eight of Swords – a tarot card (though, for some reason, Carr used the spelling Taroc) – clutched in his hand. There were other clues, including the print of a shoe outside the house that could
You can tell by my rating that this novel from Carr featuring Dr. Gideon Fell was not up to his usual standards.
There were other clues, including the print of a shoe outside the house that could be readily identified as coming from the house’s “junk” closet, and a meal on the side table next to the murdered man, where most of it had been eaten except the soup – the dead man’s favorite.
I like Carr’s Dr. Fell novels – except that this one didn’t make it to my favorite list.
This was probably the worst Carr I've read thus far.Convoluted and complex even by Carr's standards it also had too many similar characters that made it difficult at times to keep up with who was who and who was where!This of course is the point of mystery novels but the end result just isn't worth the effort.Its only because I'm attempting to read all of Carr's output that I ploughed on,any other author id probably have ditched it before half way.
And once that got going, about 20% in, I *really* got interested, and didn't get up until I'd read half the book.
It *is* quite intricate however, as in who was who and who was where when, and as the theories about the crime vary throughout the book, I can't honestly be asked to explain what possible solution turned out to be the right one in the end.So, um, confusing, but also an impossible murder case that strains the mind, and an action-packed story that quickens the pulse.Worth it.
I'm a huge fan of John Dickson Carr, but I've found his books to be hit or miss -- many amazing books, and a few that miss the mark entirely. This book was one of the few I've read that of his that I didn't enjoy very much. A few of the twists and turns in this puzzle of a mystery were interesting, but it came off as overly convoluted rather than clever. I'd recommend sticking to other John Dickson Carr books.
Another wonderful Golden Age Whodunnit from the master of the locked aroma mystery, John Dickson Carr.This is one of those stories in which a body is found in bizarre circumstances - here holding the eponymous tarot card among other peculiarities, and the inimitable Doctor Gideon Fell has to make sense of it all.For me it’s not as strong as Carr’s later locked room stories, and I preferred the Mad Hatter Mystery, which I also recently read. Not quite enough Doctor Fell in this, but enjoyable nonetheless.
Voto bassino perchè la trama non mi ha coinvolto più di tanto. L'atmosfera (campagna inglese, un'antica casa infestata, delitti misteriosi...) c'è tutta, ma non mi pare che Carr l'abbia saputa sfruttare fino in fondo. L'elemento umoristico è troppo accentuato per i miei gusti e la soluzione del caso non mi ha soddisfatto appieno. In conclusione, non il Carr migliore fra i pochi libri che ho letto finora.
The meta commentary on the perfunctoriness of the ending in the final chapter was more grating than all of Dr. Fell's hrrumphs put together. Not JDC at his best.
Well, this was certainly different.Fresh, nearly cynical for such an old book with decidedly modern writing that confuses you, since the references are obviously aging.I did guess the murderer nearly right off the bat...and since Encyclopedia Brown still occasionally stumps me, this is saying something. ;)However, the actual plot of the book was keeping me guessing at every twist and turn with the mind-bending logic and plot jumps.I'd read it again, I'd recommend it, and I'd certainly read another by Carr. Just not in the near future.
I liked this book fairly well up until the resolution chapter, where this is far too much exposition.
But Carr knew this, and he humorously has one of his characters—a book publisher—complain about the very thing in the detective mysteries prints.
This is a well-done English country house murder, with a semi-locked room aspect, and a clever plot involving concealed identity.
Once again, it is narrated by a young man who is only incidental to the plot: not an American this time, but the son of an English bishop who is just returning from a year in New York.
Another Fell-caper where JDC makes great use of his usual mis-direction ploy. Every time something really exciting is mentioned, or is about to happen, JDC pulls another rabbit out of his hat, throwing everybody, including the reader, off the scent. Dr.Fell, however, is not easily mislead, despite copious amounts of beer-drinking and pipe-smoking... Great fun, if you can endure all the twists and turns.
I read this mystery novel when I was very young and loved it. Recently I found it again and it's as humorous and well written as I remembered it though, as a professional Tarot reader, the meaning assigned to the Tarot card in the novel still puzzles me.
Plenty of humour and a decent mystery. All in all, a fun read.Full review here:http://inkquilletc.blogspot.in/2012/0...
read SOMETIME in 1998
Just finished rereading this one for a book discussion. Even more fun than I remembered!
A healthy dose of nice humour too. Good read.
Another typically excellent Carr mystery.
Not the best Carr novel I've read, but still amusing and interesting. A touch darker than others, and the ending--while it held the usual twist--felt a little like a cop-out.
