https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299514.Lady_of_Hay
The Middle Ages plot is the only plot in the novel, the contemporary parts being nothing but the aforesaid Scotch drinkings and eye narrowings, with a bit of driving around foggy damp Welsh hills and the occasional punch-up thrown in.
The Middle Ages characters do all sorts of exciting activities, either on horseback or at swordpoint or, I was going to say in bed but the sex is pretty perfunctory, his eyes narrowed and next minute they were smoking a cigarette or drinking a post-coital Scotch kind of thing.
Oh no, wait, I was in the Middle Ages so perhaps no Scotch.
Meh, don't bother.
This was such a long book.
It's basically a history lesson, turned into a story, wrapped in alcohol, sex and abuse.
I didn't believe the characters at all.
They kept telling you that Jo is a hard hitting strong person, but in EVERY instance she is completely helpless, submissive, needy and gets walked all over.
There are no consequences for any of the bad things anyone does.
But somehow the writing did keep me reading and reading...wanting to see what the ending came to, where this was all leading.
Well...it doesn't lead anywhere.
The story plays out.
That did become a bit of a stretch towards the end of the book.
(view spoiler)[ Also, unless I missed something, I don't think Sam's obsession with the whole Jo/Matilda thing was explained to my satisfaction.
were real people, but as the author notes at the end not all that happened in the book to Jo/Matilda actually happened to the real Matilda.
I almost didn't read this book because of what really happened to Matilda -- (view spoiler)[yes she was held prisoner with her son and they starved to death  (hide spoiler)]but the story ended a bit more gruesome than that, if what I read in SKP's Welsh trilogy is true.
The same document that inspired English common law, that was also incorporated into the U.S. Constitution; giving American citizens the right to know exactly which crime the citizen was being charged with, before being throw into a dungeon or jail.
English common law was also translated into the U.S. Constitution giving the Citizen the right to remain silent when being prosecuted for a crime.
Because I am a lover of historical fiction, Lady of Hay has been on my reading list for some time.
At first I thought perhaps I don't like time travel since I hated The Time Traveler's Wife, but I love Diana Gabaldon's books and it wasn't the time travel in Lady of Hay I disliked.
There were no surprises and the only time I was moved by the modern-day people or the 12th Century characters, was when I was moved to lay the book down and hope it got better.
The characters being swept up in this irrealistic plot, yet believably, and it was breathtaking.
years ago I would have given this a five.Just read it for the second time and i found it to be the most offensive, misogynistic literature i have read in a while.
I think knowing where the story goes and who each character is, made me notice all of the drinking and abuse- ON EVERY PAGE.
The reveals and plot twist were not enough to distract me from that a second time around, and now i can not in good conscience recommend this to anyone again.
This book is about Jo Clifford, a C20th journalist, who is regressed under hypnosis and finds she has lived before in the C12th, as Matilda, Lady of Hay. Matilda died a terrible death at the hands of King John.
The pain and suffering of Matilda's life threaten to take over Jo's, as she finds herself spontaneously regressing and reliving Matilda's life.
The plot is complicated by the presence of three men in Jo's life who seem to be the reincarnations of John, William and Richard.This book reminded me of Anya Seton's Green Darkness, with the way in which the characters in the present are affected by their lives in the past.
Like many others, I found the historical story, that of Matilda, much more interesting than the current-day events.
But the current-day storyline is what really ruined it for me.
All of the characters were completely unlikable and downright psychotic.Nike brutally rapes and repeatedly attacks Jo, but he claims to love her.
Matilda falls in love with someone she can't have and royally screws her life up?
Jo screws Tim because he used to be Richard, and then he conveniently melts away into the background to moan and rend his clothing in an appropriately helpless way?And Jo...
This book seemed to take forever to end and I thought about not finishing it several times but by then I was several hundred pages in and decided to slog through.
I think the medieval Margaret of Hay (and the rest of the medieval cast of characters) is much better written and more interesting than the characters living in 1980s London.
The segments of the book that take place in the twelfth century were much more interesting and enjoyable for me.
This book’s cheese factor increased with the page count and climaxed with what was to me, a completely unsatisfying conclusion.
This book made me seriously angry. I don't understand how we are suppossed to forgive the love interest's abuse of the heroine (I would have more to say but there would be spoilers). The characters spiraled out of control and the story went from somewhat beleivable to totally whack (if you will forgive the phrase). The parts that were written about the past were extremely interesting, but how it related to the present and the control of the past over the present were ridiculous.
I want to talk about my favorite book, LADY OF HAY, by Barbara Erskine.
I won't go too far into it, since I hope you will read it, but let's just say that it's a great story.
It is based upon the life of a real person, and that person is an ancestor of Barbara Erskine.
Before I read the book, I had no great interest in medieval history, and the book was so fascinating to me, that my whole attitude changed and I did extensive research into medieval history myself, after I finished the book.That is one of the compelling reasons that I read, and I write.
I found this to be a very hard book to put down, even though there were things i didn't like about it.
It really bothered me that Prince John was supposedly in love with Matilda.
Who needs love like that?
If he had loved her he would not have raped her, so brutally.
There was no love in that, only rage.
How could he have loved her without even trying to get to know her?
It was a very interesting book, but Nick/Prince John was a little too creepy for me.
Penman's King John, in Here Be Dragons, to this one.
Müthiş bir kurgusu vardı.Bazı yerlerde gereksiz uzatma vardı...Yine de çok beğendim....Jo gibi bende zihnimi boşaltsam çağlar gerisine gidebilirmiyim diye çok düşündüm..
I don't know if the subject matter is horrendously dated because it was written in the 80s, but it was one of the most hideously offensive, misogynistic books I've ever had the misfortune to read.The lead character (who's such a twit, I could scream) allows one of her love interests to beat, abuse, and rape her with zero consequences whatsoever, and she actually wants to be with him after that?
I did find it fairly enjoyable for that reason but with some large irritating flaws:1 why is a strong modern woman getting raped past and present by the men in her life and then just getting on with these guys as if nothing much really happened, I understood why they got away with this in the past..
3 why does it take sooo long to become obvious to her who the modern day version of the past men in her lives are- the heroines complete lack of insight is irritating.It would have been helpful for the author to give more buildup of why John is in love with her, in love enough to last 800 years.
The plot takes FOREVER to develop -- seems as though about halfway through the book the author finally makes some revelation about what she's going to write about.
The characters are in the upper echelon of London society, all have infatuations with each other (really?), are all ultra attractive and successful (read: no personality) and the author just can't resist dropping brands at every opportunity -- telling the reader about Jo's MG, Nick's Porsche, Bennet's Mercedes, Ceecliffs love for Harrods --- gaggaggaggaggagnauseating.
The book should have been about half the length.
Erskine has a great premise, but her characters utterly bludgeon it to death, both in this century and 800 years ago. The female lead is a paper doll that the male characters endlessly manipulate, and secondary characters jump into the action with introduction or precedence. I have no idea if the book redeems itself, because I got two-thirds of the way through before resorting to throwing it against the wall and not finishing. All in all, this is a huge disappointment of a time travel novel.
Okay, I loved the premise of this book!
I was completely pulled into the story in the beginning, by the time I was half way through, I had a few major issues with it.
First, it is WAY too long.
I loved the story of Matilda and would happily have read a complete book about her.
Jo was supposedly a strong independent woman but frankly I found her to be annoying.
Finally, I hated the men in the story.
I wanted to smack every woman in this book for letting the men have any part of their lives.
I have not rated a book this low in a long time and there is a good reason for this.
The build-up led you believe more would happen, but ended with a disappointing flat finale!It took me 12-13 hours to read (thank you kindle) and they felt like such a waste of my time.
I will not waste anymore writing a longer review, but ultimately when a story comes to a close I do not expect it to die a death like it did.This might do it for others, but it did not press any of my buttons.
This was a fascinating story which switched from the present day to the 12th century. Barbara Erskine's writing is easy to read and brings history to life. The characters were very believable and their emotions were transferred to the reader. The plot was intriguing and allowed for a page-turner which was unputdownable until the last page. I look forward to reading another of Erskine's books and recommend this one to those who love historical fiction mixed with adventure and romance.
Such a waste of my time on this patronising, mysoginistic and nonsensical book. Dont bother
Like many others, I found the historical story, that of Matilda, much more interesting than the current-day events.
But the current-day storyline is what really ruined it for me.
All of the characters were completely unlikable and downright psychotic.Nike brutally rapes and repeatedly attacks Jo, but he claims to love her.
Matilda falls in love with someone she can't have and royally screws her life up?
Jo screws Tim because he used to be Richard, and then he conveniently melts away into the background to moan and rend his clothing in an appropriately helpless way?And Jo...
In short I did not care for the paranormal aspect of the book, many of the characters, and Jo. Had Erskine told a tale about Matilda de Braose, The Lady of Hay, and left it solely about her life, I would have been raving about this book, however the story is about Jo’s regression through hypnosis to become the Lady of Hay, a twist I did not care for.
I would recommend Lady of Hay to those who enjoy paranormal novels as well as historical fiction.
I think being a full-time student is making me less tolerant at times. DNF on pg 100.
Lady of Hay is a book I have wanted to read for a long time and with The Sleepers Castle now out I was prompted to do so.
This is a tomb of a book at over 760 pages so quite daunting in size.Our main character Joanna is a confident sassy journalist who takes part in a University study in to past life regression and learns that in the past she was Matilda of Hay.As the regression takes place her unhappy abusive marriage to William Da Braose is relived, her illicit passionate love for the Knight Richard De Clare whilsts he is trying to flee from the death threats of King John.
The real issue for me is that it needs an editor something chronic - it could have done all of this in about half as many pages (the writing itself also could use a tune-up, particularly in the opening passages of every chapter.
It is certainly not one of the better historical novels out there by any stretch of the imagination (if you need truly good female-authored historical fiction about properly powerful heroines, you need to read Katherine Clements), but it is fascinating as a good example of where women's historical fantasy was in the mid 1980s.
Also, it's worth mentioning the book probably needs a TW for rape and sexual assault/abuse.
This book follows the story of Joanna Clifford who experiences a past-life regressions and learns that in the past she was Matilda of Hay, married to William de Braose, in love with Richard de Clare and pursued by King John I.
When the past starts to seep into her present and influence what is going on in her life, things get very complicated.
I really enjoyed the historical aspects of this book - when the Jo is experiencing Matilda's life and interacts with Richard de Clare and John I it is a very engaging read.
I was hoping for so much more.
Maybe that's why I'm disappointed.
The plots ok but the characters weren't fully formed for me.
I didn't believe them enough and wanted to get the story over and done with.
I would have loved Robin Hobb to have created the characters, but alas - Barbara Erskine is no Hobb.
It did take me back to a time before the internet and mobile phones and a time when we wore ankle boots which made me smile.
Maybe I should read another of her novels before being too judgemental.
It might be that the story wasn't for me rather than the author.
This book was far too long and conflicting, and the characters were lifeless and inherently stupid, vile, repugnant, and contradictory. And almost all they did was drink! If they would've all died, I wouldn't have mourned. I did not care at all for the paranormal aspect and would perhaps have liked it a little if it were simply in the past, with Maude. I did, however, have to read to the end to know the intriguing story of Maude.
Couldn't finish this. Totally boring characters, no one of substance but then when I got to the part where one character is trying to convince the other she enjoyed being raped, I remembered life is too short to keep on reading crappy books. A shame as my MIL loves this author.
