https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8707564-a-foray-into-the-worlds-of-animals-and-humans
A tic can climb onto a blade of grass and went for years to draw blood.
In the presence of a body with butyric acid, the tic attaches, feeds, and that's all she wrote.That is just one example of the kind of narrow worlds that animals live within.
Any individual organism (tic, human, what have you) perceives the world slightly different that any of its conspecifics.
If it's true that organisms have a particular Umwelt, that is, a particular world tailored to that organism and individual, then it seems to follow that each organism/individual is designed with special rules that unfold inside of it according to biological laws.
After reading, I'm left with one overall impression: "quirky." I'm presently taking a course broadly focused on the "phenomenology of life," and this was required reading.
The Structure of Behaviour and the "Nature" Course Notes), and Hans Jonas (The Phenomenon of Life).
Of these, Uexküll appears most closely related to Jonas, for whom "mechanistic" or materialist interpretations of life were drastically incomplete, since such interpretations leave out the interiority that is essential to living things.
While Uexküll's idea is similar to Jonas' (whose argument is certainly thought-provoking), the former's choice of terminology and overuse of musical metaphors makes his theory appear much less sophisticated in comparison.
Read a few chapters for a class, plan on finishing it as soon as I get the time. Uexküll has a hatred for Darwin based on a misinterpretation of his work. He posits a theory far weaker than Darwin's of natural selection. That said, he writes beautifully and the analogies he makes in this book to illustrate his points are truly exhilarating
It's philosophy and scientific.

Surprisingly easy to read and understand for a profane (as I am), this book builds interesting bridges with philosophy, especially in relocating the animal as a conscious subject, capable of subjective decisions, rather than a primitive and instinctive creature.
The creator of biosemiotic approach to nature leads you to the wonderful world of animals. (First) Jakob von Uexkull (1864-1944) offers a fresh perspective and treats animals as subjects, philosophical subjects, not objects. Revolutionary!
Brillanter und leicht verständlicher Versuch den Anthropomorphismus aufzulösen. Nicht nur biologisch, sondern auch anthropologisch und philosophisch interessant.
