https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15613.Billy_Budd_Sailor
“Truth uncompromisingly told will always have its jagged edges.” ― Herman Melville, Billy BuddReading 'Billy Budd' left me thinking of David Foster Wallace and his unfinished novel The Pale King.
Both are unfinished literary works that -- despite their roughness (and yes incompleteness) -- seem to suggest or hint that if given time/space/temperament, etc., Melville and Wallace could have produced works equalling their respective magna opera.
Is Billy Budd a greater work than Moby-Dick?
While the ship survives, there is that one full-stop second; that heavy moment as the wave passes UNDER the portside where your bodymindandsoul recognizes the strength of the ocean and the power of that one beautiful wave that barely missed destroying you.
Dear High School Curriculum Writers:I am positive that you can find a better novel than this one to use when introducing symbolism and extended metaphor to developing readers.
"Christ-figure" is the most over-used of these extended metaphors; over-used to the point where its offensiveness ceases to be about the in-your-face religious aspect of it and becomes instead about the simple over-use of the symbols.
If you want to "go there" with symbolism and metaphor and have high school age kids the ways in which literature can illuminate our experience not by representing it literally but by unhinging from it, try helping these students discover Garcia-Marquez or Allende.And that's just assuming you want to stay in the "safe" territory of the Western hemisphere.Ever your advisor,me.
704. Billy Budd, Foretopman, Herman Melvilleعنوانها: بیلی باد؛ بیلی باد ملوان؛ نویسنده: هرمان ملویل؛ انتشاراتیها: (اردیبهشت، کوثر، قصه پرداز، جویا، فردا) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوازدهم ماه آوریل سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: بیلی باد؛ نویسنده: هرمان ملویل؛ مترجم: غلامحسین اعرابی؛ تهران، اردیبهشت، 1367؛ در 344 ص؛ چاپ دیگر تهران، کوثر؛ 1382؛ در 352 ص؛ شابک: 9647579217؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، قصه پرداز، 1393؛ در 140 ص؛ شابک: 978646916760؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، اردیبهشت، 1396؛ در 344 ص؛ شابک: 97896441713449؛ موضو
Billy Budd, Foretopman, Herman Melvilleعنوانها: بیلی باد؛ بیلی باد ملوان؛ نویسنده: هرمان ملویل؛ انتشاراتیها: (اردیبهشت، کوثر، قصه پرداز، جویا، فردا) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوازدهم ماه آوریل سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: بیلی باد؛ نویسنده: هرمان ملویل؛ مترجم: غلامحسین اعرابی؛ تهران، اردیبهشت، 1367؛ در 344 ص؛ چاپ دیگر تهران، کوثر؛ 1382؛ در 352 ص؛ شابک: 9647579217؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، قصه پرداز، 1393؛ در 140 ص؛ شابک: 978646916760؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، اردیبهشت، 1396؛ در 344 ص؛ شابک: 97896441713449؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریایی - قرن 19 معنوان: بیلی باد ملوان (روایتی درونی) به همراه دو داستان: زوال خاندان آشر؛ چلیک آمونتیلادو؛ از ادگار آلن پو؛ نویسنده: هرمان ملویل؛ مترجم: احمد میرعلایی؛ تهران، جویا، 1370؛ در 195 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: اصفهان، فردا، 1384؛عنوان: بیلی باد؛ نویسنده: هرمان ملویل؛ مترجم: محمد عبادزاده کرمانی؛ اصفهان، کیمیا، 1380؛ در 128 ص؛ شابک: 9647595182؛عنوان: بیلی باد؛ نویسنده: هرمان ملویل؛ مترجم: محمد عبادزاده کرمانی؛ اصفهان، کیمیا، 1380؛ در 128 ص؛ شابک: 9647595182؛بیلی باد ملوان؛ جوان زیبایی ست که همگان او را بسیار دوست میدارند.
ا. شربیانی

Herman Melville's place in the literary canon is secure today, mainly on the strength of his novel Moby Dick; but ironically, that work was largely panned by critics and regular readers alike when it was published, and in the last decades of his life (he died in 1891) the author turned away from trying to publish fiction to write poetry instead.
Though Melville wasn't the first writer to do so --he had several 19th-century predecessors, especially if we consider age-of-sail naval fiction more broadly (and Melville's own earlier novel White Jacket or, the World on a Man-of-War, though dealing with the American navy, was part of that 19th-century tradition), I think it's arguable that he was a significant influence on both the authors of Mutiny on the Bounty and C.
Jealousy's a green-eyed monster, folks.
This isn't to come across as condescending, if I had read it in High School, my review would have probably been equally dismal since I was in no way prepared to appreciate a book that wasn't as exciting as a Bond movie or that used sentences more complex than Lord of the Flies.
Billy Budd definitely shouldn't be required reading in high school, at least not until high school provides a competent enough education for students to appreciate a great work, even if they don't "like" it.
Billy Budd, able seaman «we do not deal with justice here but with the law»Billy Budd è l’ultima opera di Melville e verrà pubblicata nel 1924, trentacinque anni dopo la sua morte. Come accade in Benito Cereno, anche in questo caso, Melville trae spunto per la creazione di questo piccolo, struggente capolavoro, dal presunto ammutinamento del Somers del 1842. All’epoca, la giuria condannò all’impiccagione Philip Spencer, figlio diciottenne dell’allora Ministro della Guerra (!). Molti anni dopo,
«we do not deal with justice here but with the law»Billy Budd è l’ultima opera di Melville e verrà pubblicata nel 1924, trentacinque anni dopo la sua morte.
Molti anni dopo, nel 1989, Abigail R.
Dodge, così descrive lo sfortunato diciottenne: “ … l’anima eroica che era nato per essere glorificato dalla luce che lo illuminava attraverso la porta socchiusa della morte”.In questa “inside narrative”, Melville caratterizza così il suo Avvenente Marinaio nero, ventuno anni, gabbiere di parrocchetto.
Forza e bellezza imbarcata a forza da un mercantile, sulla H.M.S. Bellipotent, una settantaquattro di Sua Maestà Britannica in partenza dal porto di Liverpool.
The problem is that it's kindof boring and not much happens.It was Melville's last work, and he never really finished it - he just left a ton of scribbles and sketches and conflicting drafts kicking around - and maybe that's why it feels like a bit of a mess: because it literally was, before various people tried to stitch it together.Your basic story is that there's this super-pretty guy, Billy Budd, and this other dude on the ship, Claggart, is deeply closeted and therefore confused and eventually enraged by his unstoppable attraction to him.
Melville, what are you about man? That's just too much telling for the story's own good!In Billy Budd, Sailor we have what could've been a grand, character-driven swashbuckling adventure. However, Melville apparently wanted to write about sailing and the early navy, and must have felt he needed to throw in a story to justify the book. The two subjects needed to merge more seamlessly for this to work. Otherwise two separate books should have been published, a treatise and a tale, for they are two entirely different ships passing in the night.
I found this just as difficult to read and even more difficult to sustain any kind of interest in, and was most grateful for the relative brevity of Billy Budd, especially as Melville's writing style can charitably be described as impenetrable, if not at times actually unreadable.
One way or the other, what interests me about Billy Budd is that Melville's elusively was appropriated by director Claire Denis for her lyrical and (very) loose adaptation 
The tragic story of Billy Budd is a captivating and interesting read. Melville is a master of physical and psychological description and an expert at ships at sea and this makes for a great story. I am all too familiar with rumor-mongering and how poisonous and destructive it can be and this posthumously published novella serves as a sort of naval parable about it. A must read after Moby Dick.
Para mim melhor do que o seu afamado "Moby Dick". Pode, enfim, envolver-me na narrativa marítima de Melville. É as peripécias do marinheiro Billy e as suas amizades na embarcação em que vive durante anos.Desta vez me conquistei por um livro de Herman Meville. Para meu espanto gostei mais de uma pequena história sua do que o seu livro mais importante. É a sua última obra e a mais encantadora!
I feel like I should ask forgiveness for allotting only two stars to a Melville, but I felt adrift while reading Billy Budd, Foretopman.
Of course, something upsets the apple cart in the form of an officer, Claggart, who is jealous of Billy's perfectness.
Melville does an excessive amount of analyzing the motives of Claggart, the perception of people in regards to Billy, etc.
Melville also obsesses about Billy's perfect appearance and how it made people love him.
I almost put the book down and screamed, but it was only 126 pages with lots of illustrations of perfect Billy, so I went ahead and finished it.
I buy none of the characters Melville, and that is a first with you. The story is there though and it was a good adventure story - Sir Walter could have told it better, and that too is a first with you. But, despite the cribs, the foretopman and the motley crew will stay with me, but not for the telling.Adieu, Rights of Man! No irony intended, only Paine! Or not.
Boring and meandering - the writing style too, is not to my taste. Why is this a classic and on the 1001 book you need to read list?
This stands out as one of best punishments my parents ever doled out.
We had to read this in high school over Christmas break.
I just so happened to get grounded at the same time.
My mom decided that I would be ungrounded when I finished this book.
It's about 100 pages (so really short), and since we were on break from school I had literally nothing but time on my hands.
When we returned to school, I was one of 2 in the ENTIRE class who actually read it.
Great punishment, mom, you sneaky woman!
While the themes of justice and law were interesting, what really stood out to me was the gay subtext of the novella. The last 5 chapters were intense, filled with memorable passages and analysis from different perspectives.
Biraz garip bir kitap, hem deniz ve gemicilik içeriğinden dolayı Moby Dick'e, hem de Billy Budd'ın tutumlarındaki kayıtsızlıktan ve diğer karakterlerin tavırlarından dolayı Katip Bartleby'e benziyor. Ama analizlere ve tasvirlere o kadar ağırlık vermiş ki, hikaye minicik kalmış. Ben pek tat alamadım bu kitaptan. İki yıldız vermeye elim varmıyor ama ancak o kadar tat alabildim kitaptan.
The fact that the narrator keeps insisting on his storytelling accuracy while portraying Billy Budd as a holy figure calls into question what is true and what is exaggerated.The central moral question of the novel asks whether people should follow the law as designated by institutional authorities or instead go with their moral intuitions.
It is also questionable as to whether Captain Vere, the man in charge of Billy's fate, acts courageously in his decision to adhere to the law or cowardly in his decision to thoughtlessly hide behind it.And yes, Billy can clearly be called a Christ-figure and that seems to be a cliched symbol by this time.
From BBC Radio 3 - Drama on 3:The playwright Keith Dewhurst adapts Herman Melville's powerful story of persecution and retribution in the aftermath of the Naval Mutinies at Nore and Spithead in 1797.
He also tells the story of the man who wrote it.
Herman Melville was a man who himself had more than a passing acquaintance with mutiny.
Starring Gerard Murphy, Robert Portal and Monica Dolan and with effects specially recorded off the Cornish coast, this is a story steeped in the naval history of two nations.
During the Napoleonic wars, a beautiful young sailor, a foundling of mysterious origin and indomitable innocence named Billy Budd, is impressed, forced from a ship called the Rights of Man to one called the Bellipotent.
Aridly it drew down the thin corners of his shapely mouth.Melville's narrator tries to explain "what was the matter with the master-at-arms," and ends up referring us to the Biblical "mystery of iniquity." I suspect many readers over the years (Cold-War-era high school teachers and students perhaps?) have taken the hint that Claggart's queer desire is the thing amiss, but Melville's language is precise, however difficult:In a list of definitions included in the authentic translation of Plato, a list attributed to him, occurs this: "Natural Depravity: a depravity according to nature." A definition which tho' savoring of Calvinism, by no means involves Calvin's dogmas as to total mankind.
Some time ago I watched the 1962 production of this Melville novella.
At the time I had no particular attachment to the story so felt no transgression seeing the film first.
Let me put it this way ; no harm was done in seeing the film before reading Billy Budd.
And Melville was writing at a time prior to stories-as-film, so to accuse him of writing a film script is no accusation (the film being itself based on a play by some unknown).
But the Billy Budd film is really to be req'd.
If you're into that kind of thematic arrangement.
Un giovane marinaio, Billy Budd, viene forzatamente arruolato al servizio di sua maestà britannica in un periodo di turbolenze e ammutinamenti conseguenti agli effetti della rivoluzione francese.
Il capitano Vere predispone immediatamente un tribunale militare che lo giudichi e Billy affronta il verdetto con forza d’animo e coraggio.Da un fatto così semplice scaturiscono molteplici interpretazioni simboliche, grazie alla raffinata narrazione che racconta accuratamente i tre personaggi , con particolare attenzione ai dettagli, come la descrizione fisica del malvagio Claggart e dei suoi occhi che cambiano colore ed espressione a seconda delle situazioni, giungendo ad una perfetta caratterizzazione dei medesimi.
Billy Budd is one of those extremely rare examples of a movie that is better than the book.
The details of the story are presented efficiently enough but the moral consequences and the "damned if you do, damned if you don't" quandry in which the lead characters (and, by implication, the audience) find themselves is far more central to Peter Ustinov's brilliant 1962 film than it is to this decent but overrated book.
Nine times out of ten, I would advise you to read the book before you see the movie.
I am on the fence with this book. About halfway through I started to pick up on the rhythm of the language and become interested in the story. Melville's sentences are so labyrinthine and filled with archaic words that I struggled to understand what was going on, let alone enjoy it. By the end of the book though I see where Melville was going with it and can appreciate this story. I did not enjoy the telling of it, though, so I'm going to give it 2 1/2 stars.
Well this is a short compact story for Melville. Great dialogue and setting. Billy Budd a good sailor in general who has a bad experience on board his ship and suffers the severe consequences of his acts.
A soul remains very pure.
This book stunk.
Letto per il mio GDL.Direi che non fa per me. Tutto molto semplice, iper-simbolico, poco appassionante. M'aspettavo di trovarci dentro almeno un po' di mare, invece niente. Io e te, Herman, ci rivediamo a bordo della Pequod. Prima o poi. [57/100]
