https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1334617.My_Body_and_I
For many of us, that is those of us who seriously think on things, the greatest problem to overcome in life is the activity of our own brains; not political corruption or poorly paid jobs or gas pains or the daily bastards we encounter, but the sparkings of our own grey matter.
This book is an honest and detailed account of Monsieur Crevel attempting to solve the problem of his own brain, and to read it is to take a convoluted interior journey through his life thus far; a swarm of memories drawing everything in its wake from his father’s suicide to his love affairs with fat singers to his self-prostitution to his tormenting dreams.
oh my god.
you ever feel like you've already read, or at least heard of and contemplated, every good book you'll ever read in your life?
maybe working in a bookstore did that to me.
this book!
where had it been all my life?
i'd never heard of it, and yet from the first sentence to the last i was stunned and overjoyed by both its substance and its style, amazed that somebody had written, and so well articulated, all those thoughts that play out like fireworks in my mind at my darkest moments and most exalted states.
PERFECT
I am obsessed with Rene Crevel, and this book in particular. If you're going to read Rene Crevel, start here instead of with 'Putting My Foot in It' which has some laborious humor at times. This little book isn't meant to display the Surrealists' trademark "black humor", but is instead a somber contemplation of solitude and the nature of human bonds. It's also poetry. It's also an entreat to suicide. It's also a chronicle of despair, disappointment, and the more painful facets of the human experience. Memory, mimosa...
"A felicidade nascerá dos golpes desferidos ou dos golpes recebidos? E a infelicidade dos que não foram desferidos, dos que não foram recebidos. Estranha pergunta para fazermos a nós próprios com as pálpebras fechadas, quando viemos pedir a mais íntima e solitária das metamorfoses ao sol de junho, ao ar dos glaciares. Ai de mim! Um corpo exige sete anos para se renovar. A montanha, essa, muda insensivelmente de cor. Mas de que valem os símbolos de um alpinismo primário e reconfortante, se esta noite não vou chegar ao azul, a esse azul chamado, muito a propósito, azul-celeste?"
After a complete and thorough reading, I'll admit that this one particular book will undoubtedly reshape your entire approach in finding meaning in this life.
Crevel, bisexual and suicidal, attempts to delve into his psyche, which is in conflict, and return to the surface with Truth and understanding.
One can never escape oneself, one can never find solitude since we are made up of certain moments that fleeing would only create new moments.
I felt that Crevel was disgusted with himself, disgusted with his body's desires since they didn't correspond to his spiritual essence.
I pulled this off my shelf today instead of dozens of other unreads, mainly because it fits into the pocket of my duffel coat. It is great--someone aptly called him one of the accessible surrealists--and full of current interest since I am almost the age Crevel was when he committed suicide.
An introspective work by a very suicidal author. It has its ups and downs but I like the way he observes objects and people.
A sober psychological examination on the subjects of solitude and depression among ruminations about bisexuality. Beautiful writing every other paragraph or so.
It is a surrealist version of Pessoa’s ‘The Book of Disquiet’ - unlike Breton quite enjoyable and readable.
It story is angst, depressed, lonely and deep.One can usually know a good book when sentences and quotes leap out as being interesting and thought provoking:-Here are just 3 interesting of many quotes:“But since God the Father wants nothing to do with me in His paradise, the same as yesterday, I must go on using objects, earthly creatures”“Christen the little lie that has been so carefully wrapped a perversion”“’I think therefore I am’.
I know that I think.
le sigh. sparse self-flagellating opulence, written in 1925. the drama ensues: will rene onan or not? will rene off himself or not? emo-to-death "erotic" vaguebooking with an algebraic equation and a prayer, two of my favorite moments. i guess everyone was on that stream-of-consciousness tip around then, this reads like vanity-incarnate poetry in paragraphs. apparently this queer anarchist was very cute and i guess that's all that really matters to me. crevel deserves a merciless spanking.
dangerous rationalization of suicide
