https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6400101-the-happy-failure
The narrator and Yorpy cooperated with the old man and made a deal about searching for strangers on the island.
But if they have hobbies, everything changes - they continue living active and happy life.The importance of being involved in something interesting was illustrated through the statement which the old man said: "Boy, take my advice, and never try to invent anything but - happiness."These are the links to the text and audio of the story: https://www.accuracyproject.org/t-Mel...http://www.morningshort.com/listen
Melville's short works are fantastic. Each one explores a different thread of his Great White Whale. In many we see Melville, the old man, coming to terms with his passing into obscurity. Bartleby, in particular, is as fine a short story as I've encountered.
This was somethig of a struggle. Some stories I was just unable to grasp. I loved the evocation of the temple And was glad to read Bartelby but some real stinkers also
There are a few stories with mainly interesting overall ideas, and there are bits of funniness here and there.
What bogged me down was his tendency toward over-writing, when it felt like Melville would try to pack endless descriptions of, say, boat riggings a la Moby Dick, into a ten-page short story about a guy and his chimney.
Sometimes I would skim entire paragraphs, filtering them according to subjects & verbs, just to get a basic idea of what was HAPPENING to the main character, not just how he and his outfit (or whatever) LOOKED and FELT.
Guess I'll never read Moby Dick.
As Tina Turner once sang (or still sings), Melville is simply the best. Sure he might've been a penniless failure and wrote short stories titled "The Happy Failure" and "I and My Chimney" but his written word lives on. Dude had sick literary chops. People, even today, slap his quotes on coffee mugs: http://www.mhpbooks.com/merchandise/mug/. Love me some Melville. Start with his short story "Bartleby the Scrivener" if you're new to his writing.
I only got through one story (I thought it was a novel, not a book of short stories - doh!), and the ending was not fantastic, but the story was interesting, and the language is rich and the characters well drawn.
I'm only giving it 4 stars because of "Barleby". Aside from that I didn't enjoy the rest of the book.
Melville is a charming and great writer. I loved his short stories--very readable and clever. Can't wait to read MORE of his works!
The "bonus" story wasn't supergreat, but I'm not counting it against the Melville collection, which contained some excellent works.
