https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/710829.Planet_of_the_Damned
I am an unashamed fan of Harry Harrison, I love the Stainless Steel Rat series even though it's a little dated now.
Planet of the Damned was free on Amazon, so having read a couple of his Death World Series, I thought I would give it a go for nostalgia sake.
Spoilers***Worst line (His MC's opinion of women...Ah, his poor love interest) ~ for example, it is impossible for a woman to win a large chess tournament—and this fact was recognized.Best line (His MC bluffing his way into an organisation) ~ “This is an un-standard operation, and the standard techniques just don’t begin to make sense.
Having read Deathworld (the first of the series and not the others) and liked it, and having run across this book, I had to give it a try.
While I consider this book more like 3 1/2 stars, I couldn't go up in this case because, well, it just wasn't a compelling read.Brion Brandd has just won "The Twenties," a planet-wide competition on his planet that keeps the population in line.
It was a story that happened "in a galaxy far, far away" and never got any closer to me.If you're a Harry Harrison fan, this is worth reading.
"Violence piles on violence in as bloody and gutsy a yarn as we've had in a long time, and at the same time the picture of the extraordinary symbiotic relationships which the Disians have developed with the native life forms is rounded out. The author has done a masterful job of weaving the two threads of development together, and hanging the solution of the plot on a scientific puzzle: who and what are the magter? ... Top stuff, as you know if you read the original. The paperback expands, rounds out, and makes the book even better."  - Analog

Harry Harrison is one of my favorite SF authors, but this one just didn't do it for me. Good story line, great characters, great Readers (at least 4, I lost count - God Bless them) but "I just don't know" kinda boring. Anyway 3.5 stars.
Originally posted at FanLit.http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...Brion Brandd has just become the champion of his planet by defeating all the other contestants in “The Twenties.” Many men train all their lives for a chance to be the winner and Brion is ready to savor his victory.
Then he needs to figure out how the planet and the species that have evolved on it work together so he can solve their political problems.Since this is a story written by Harry Harrison, there must also be a hot chick for Brion to save and fall in love with.

It's far in the future and mankind has settled -- and adapted -- to a number of planets.Brion is a product of his particular planet -- in fact one of the best.
He's become this year's champion (or "Winner") of the annual games.
But another Winner wants him to go off-planet to save another planet's inhabitants.
And this may be beyond even Brion's ability.I'll definitely be reading this story again.
Lots of action and a believable problem to be solved along with formidable obstacles to overcome.
Top quality writing by a master of the genre.I own the 1962 Tor edition with the Tom Kidd cover.
Excellent classic sci-fi story.
Приятна фантастика, чете се лесно и има дъха на класическото sci-fi от 70-те. Много прилича на problem-solving книгите за Стоманения плъх.
Two planets are at odds and a gladiator type is asked to intervene and prevent genocide.
Brion is the winner of a planet wide superiority game.
Hunger game-ish, the Twenties are a Olympics of mind and body that are akin to the bread and circuses of the Romans.
Picked by a secret foundation to avert a war on a distant planet, Brion is torn over wallowing in the adoration of his victory or extending himself by diving into a situation that he has little or no confidence that he can prevail.
Symbiotic relationships and alien life forms are addressed as well as the intervening aspects of imposed social order.
Started out interesting with a cool character and concept but got bogged down in lecturing about evolution and human sexual relationships that went a little gamma haywire. Conceptually it still was an okay read. Solution was a bit anticlimactic.
Straight-up, hard core, nuts and bolts, old-fashioned science fiction.That is what you will find in PLANET OF THE DAMNED by Harry Harrison.This is science fiction that is hard to find these days.
Non-stop action as well as exploration of ideas about societal engineering, exploration of planets of numerous types, human adaptations to strange and hostile environments, bizarre ecosystems, and what is it that makes a human?The plot involves a man named Brion, champion of a planet once colonized by humans from Earth but cut off and isolated when Earth’s society collapsed.
Brion is recruited by a secret organization because of the qualities that allowed him to become champion of his planet.
Flash Gordon couldn’t be any more the obvious touchstone here if the central character was named Dash Morgan.A great athlete and champion of his world is recruited as an agent by a secret organisation and sent to deal with an inter-planetary conflict that could result in the destruction of two planets.
At stake is nuclear Armageddon, the destruction of a peaceful utopia, as well the annihilation of a race of man which has evolved to fit in to a remarkable degree with his adopted home.

I searched Amazon and saw that the kindle edition was free so I grabbed it.A few pages in it seemed like it was going to be a pretty boring and flat read, but once Brion left Anvhar the story picked up very quickly.
The budding relationship between Brion and Lea was pretty predictable, but it didn't take away from the story which was loaded with more than enough action.I'm no biologist, but the science did seem a little dumbed-down, but it did accommodate the story and allow for some resolution.
The climax of the story was exciting, but I was a bit disappointed with the end, but it did leave room for the sequel.
Direct and no diversions from the basic story but with some interesting details to make it interesting. If you like the old SF books where the hero is uber-masculine and the female interest, well, beyond the female counterpart to said male - how could she live without him?? - then this is for you. If you want to judge by today's standards of writing to cater to sex-roles that are politically correct - look elsewhere. I find these old books quanit and nostalgic, and yes, silly as well. But what's wrong with that?
Very well crafted book asking some quite intriguing questions that are now even more valid than they were 55 years ago when Harrison conceived it. Let it be on record that I find it a master stroke to make the aliens speak Danish with a few modifications. Aliens that turn out to be more human than we feel comfortable to acknowledge.This is one of those ecological novels that make rank Herbert look like a copycat. There are only a few of those, but this one surely outranks anything Frank Herbert ever put to paper,
Hugo nominated in 1962, originally published in Analog Science Fact-Science Fiction as "Sense of Obligation." Brion has just won the Twenties, a global competition to test achievements in 20 categories of human activities -- but before he can enjoy his victory he's forced to leave his homeworld to help salvage Dis, the most hellish planet in the galaxy.Free from ManyBooks.nethttp://www.goodreads.com/review/new/2...
One of my favorite books ever. I read this book for the first time when in my early teens and I come back to it every 10 years ot so. It has greatly influenced and continues to influence my belief in service to the community, searching for the truth, and defending the innocent even at a risk to me - this book has given me a sense of obligation.
The people of a miserable desert planet are headed toward mutually assured destruction with an enlightened, pacifist paradise. A man with little experience and understanding of the situation is thrown into trying to prevent this--the problem is, none of his helpers care if every last person on the desert planet is destroyed!
Not the Rat but,,, Brian isn't the Stainless Steel Rat, but who is? A good quick read in classic Harrison style. Easily worth the time and money. I wit there were more like the Rat series, the exploits of Brion a and Lea would be fun to .follow.
The book holds up pretty well and isn't dated like other sci-fi stories from the 60's. Who knew that preventing war could be so entertaining. Still it has the standard hero with a love interests and mutants and some action too. Not bad for a $2 book from a drug store.
Harry Harrison is an awesome writer. His stories and characterizations are riveting. In this book, sports star Brion Brandd must stop a devastating planetary war between an irrationally-aggressive culture and their more even-keeled neighbors. A fun and great read!
Edge of Your Seat!Loved this book, I can see how John Carpenter used it for reference for Escape From New York. Great story and great characters!
While listening to this it was very easy to forget that I was NOT, in fact, listening to another of his Deathworld stories. So much alike the mentioned ones it was. So if you liked them, you'll like this one just the same.Other than that, here was a true hero, if there ever was one, a solid match to Conan the Barbarian or you name it - muscles, brain, even emotional intelligence. What else does the hero need to save a planet full of people from an epic doom?
"Honor is important to a man who must stand alone." After reading of the tales of Jason DinAlt, this story pales in comparison. The main character sounds like a watered down version of the one aforementioned. The only redeeming quality is the suspense at the very end. Given that my perspective is quite biased (after reading other Harrison stories) I felt inclined to give it 2 stars. But it's still a Harrison story and would've been fine had I not been previously spoiled by Death world.
First, props to sf pioneer Harry Harrison. He was one of the stalwarts upon which modern SF is built. That said, PotD is most similar to bad Edgar Rice Burroughs, or maybe John Jakes "Brak the Barbarian." Definitely not as good as Robert E Howard. (Yes, I'm comparing it to Swords and Sorcerery). If you are researching old school pulp SF okay, but otherwise not worth your time.
This book reads like a novelization of a poorly made 1950's black and white sci-fi film. But maybe that's a bit harsh. I haven't read other reviews yet. I don't know. Maybe I missed something here. The book is relatively dated (1965, I believe) and it's not the easiest read. This was my first Harry Harrison book and I will be reading more.
A Good NovelThis book was referenced in a couple other books so I decided to give it a chance. A unique story of two warring planet and a local hero sent to find peace. Nicely put together and easy to follow.
