https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20520995-collected-poems-of-t-s-eliot
This was a nice tactile experience.
The book was published in 1932 and had apparently had a replacement binding sometime in the Nixon administration.
It felt sleek in my hand.I bought it for fifty cents as our local library continues its purge, freeing the stacks for a conference area for Rotarians and Lyft team meetings.
The volume marked a nice return to The Waste Land.
I don't believe I had read Ash Wednesday before and was impressed.
We all know the grief in each handful of dust.
I found this observation especially poignant as this particular book was being cast out of the library.

Once again, T.S. Eliot! Fabulous poetry!
I listened to the audiobook narrated by Jeremy Irons, which significantly contributed to this five-star rating
LATE Quartet
S. Eliot’s poetry.Maybe I’ll put Collected Poems of T.
Maybe not.“We are the hollow men We are the stuffed men”From “The Hollow Men,” 1925It’s not that I mind Eliot’s deliberate contradictions so much.
I’m ready to be pushed or pulled outside my comfort zone.The sticky point for me, with Eliot’s poetry, is that I never seem to get to the point, or maybe I simply don’t get the point.
S. Eliot’s poetry isn’t tasty, and it’s a bloomin’ wasteland of jumbled words, fractured images and unfinished imaginations.
I adore T.S. Eliot so when my 1930s copy of Eliot's poems came through the mail I may or may not have ran around the house out of excitement. I got through it in 2 days even though I was reading and analysing each stanza. Absolutely beautiful. A must read!
Okay, so I loved "Prufrock and Other Observations", the English pieces in "Poems", "The Waste Land" and "The Hollow Men", unfortunately, after that many of the poems were less enjoyable.
I thought "Ash Wednesday" was only okay and the "Ariel Poems" to be too religious.
I did not like the minor poems and thought "Choruses from 'The Rock'" to be preachy and annoying (though beautifully crafted).
I think "The Waste Land" may be the hardest piece I have ever read, and the rest of Eliot's work is almost as complex and difficult.
So good. So, so good. Snobby Anglophile Brainiac? Tom Stearns, we were made for each other. The only thing is, WHYYYYY DID YOU NEVER FINISH CORIOLAN??? I am angry about this, Mr. Eliot.
Received old copy of Harcourt, Brace and Company 1936 reprinting
If I could only have one book of poetry for the rest of my life it would be this one.
An innovator of poetry and perception at the beginning of the twentieth century.
A pretty good book. Some of the poetry I didn't really "get"; but then, poetry's always been a bit hard for me to understand. But I especially liked his poem about the Rock.
Along with Yeats, Eliot is the best poet of the 20th century. Sheer brilliance.
