https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29380.Animal_Liberation
Animal Liberation is the book that started the modern animal rights movement.
Singer, however, does not devote the largest part of his book to what we eat, but how we treat animals and the reasons why.
Singer also looks at Western civilization and the reasons we think about animals the way we do.
From the Book of Genesis, though Greek thinkers, Roman society, and philosophers in the Age of Reason, the present Western mindset of animal rights or more appropriately the lack of rights is set.
The updates have kept up with current developments and Singer still does use reason over emotion to back his points.
These animals help to use resources that would otherwise be wasted or not fully exploited.Eating Soya (as urged in the book) as a protein source brings its own problems, not least transport costs.
We would do well to eat less meat and to care much more about its sourcing and production.Peter Singer is a formidable intellect and he has a lot to teach us, but he goes farther along the road than I believe sensible.
The scourge of the suburban B-B-Q.Seventeen years ago, when I first considered becoming a vegetarian, this book, Peter Singer's Animal Liberation was the catalyst that pushed me over the line.
As a result, this book holds a special place in my heart as a road-marker on the trail of my own personal philosophy.My bias aside, Animal Liberation is a powerful work by a renowned ethicist and a fantastic introduction to the ethical arguments for cessation (or at least reduction) of animal slaughter and animal experimentation.
Australian philosopher, Peter Singer, wrote "Animal Liberation: A New Ethics For Our Treatment of Animals" over forty years ago.
I decided to re-read it with the new additions this year because my son is a life long vegetarian, he loves animals and I wondered does it still hold up?
This book made me wonder, if I needed to change my ways and become a vegan, as author Peter Singer suggests.
The author's wish is that his book would change the world and that a vast amount of animal suffering can be avoided.
بنابراين در فرهنگ غرب، از کتاب «سفر آفرينش» تا اواخر سده هجده تقريباً ديدگاه غالب، ديدگاهي است که جايگاهي براي حيوانات قائل نيست و نسبت به آنها بي رحم است ولي «جرمي بنتام» که پدر نگرشي در اخلاق تحت عنوان «فايده گرايي» است مي گويد که اخلاق متوجه افرادي نيست که سخن مي گويند يا توانايي عقل ورزي دارند؛ اخلاق متوجه همه جانداراني است که بتوانند درد و رنج را احساس کنند.
So this book.I love this book for what it did for bringing animal rights into the semi-mainstream.
I spend a lot of time reading about animal ethics, so nothing- neither the animal abuses recounted nor the philosophical arguments against speciesism- was new to me.
Still, I feel remiss giving it less than 5 stars, because everything I’ve read on animal ethics was influenced by this, which was the only thing that made it a bit uneventful for me to read, after all.An interesting note: I think it’s very significant that Peter Singer is a man.
It’s mainstream ethics.
Singer does not support the animal rights movement epitomized by PETA but holds many of the same views, referred to as speciesism ([http://wikipedia.org/wiki/Speciesism]), based on a logical examination of the practices of the industrialized societies in their use of animals.
The examination is based on Utilitarian ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitar...]) morals and ethics and you have to read the book with that frame of mind, even if you don't agree you have to be open to utilitarian ideas, to understand some of what Singer is talking about.Most people in the industrial world are far removed from how their food is produced and how their beauty products or drugs are tested and approved.
Vous risquez de faire de drôles de grimaces en lisant ça dans le métro.Le classique de Singer est souvent décrié : dernièrement, j'ai encore eu l'occasion de voir Léa Salamé à la télévision, expliquer que Singer justifie les maltraitances sur les personnes handicapées mentales, alors qu'il demande à ses lecteurs de bien traiter les animaux.
C'est toujours une bonne idée de lire et de comprendre le livre avant de raconter n'importe quoi sur une chaîne de grande audience, du coup je l'ai fait après coup pour Léa : Singer amène effectivement l'argument d'une personne handicapée, pour se demander dans quelle mesure la discrimination peut-elle être justifiée envers les êtres vivants.
While necessarily brief and not all-inclusive, it helps to paint the broad canvas of humanity's inhumanity to non-humans as well as the progress of animal advocacy and consciousness-raising.Another significant aim of the book is to encourage a vegetarian diet.
For, if these ethical implications are true (they are), then one must take a vegetarian and even a vegan diet seriously into consideration in order to be morally and ethically consistent.
Singer does not create this as a black-and-white proposition; he explores the potential situations in which meat eating could be ethical, and the spectrum of consideration that corresponds to relative degrees of suffering.
But perhaps even more changing was the brief bio at the end of the piece which read something to the effect of: “Peter Singer is the author of the seminal 1975 work Animal Liberation which posits that non-human animals should be treated on the same ethical plain as humans”.
[return]The book follows a similar plan to the brief piece I read in the New York Times (which was called simply “Rich and Poor” and was the same abridged version of “Famine, Affluence, and Morality" [http://www.utilitarian.net/singer/by/...
Even after so many years, most people remains either unaware or indifferent to the horrible way we are treating animals.
Most people are unaware because it is difficult to see connections when you live in a city you never leave and just see a piece of red, inanimate matter wrapped in plastic that just tastes delicious.Animal liberation must have been a shocking book, a revelation to many people about the unfair use and abuse animals suffer because of our insatiable search for pleasure, our ignorance about food, the power of the food sector and the fear of...
I remember what a swami in Vedanta told a woman who complained of their eating meat: "The rice also suffers." Anyway, it is impossible for most people to grow their own food, and there are many people in America that can't even afford organic, so being vegetarian isn't always healthy, but not much of anything is anymore.Next, Singer says that we should eat grains and soy products.
I know I did for a long time.At least in the Vedanta Society we were taught to not judge others who ate meat, which was a good lesson to learn, as some vegetarians are very judgmental of those who aren't like them.
This does not mean, of course, that it would be right to perform the experiment on animals, but only that there is a reason, which is not speciesist, for preferring to use animals rather than normal adult humans, if the experiment is to be done at all.
Singer also quotes Bentham arguing that vegetarianism is not called for, because animals are probably happier being raised for food than struggling to exist in the wild.
Making it impossible to ignore.The thing is, since he talked so much about experimentation and farming I feel he could have at least gone a little further and talked about other problems.
Maybe he didn't want to make the book too long but for me it felt like something was missing.The second half is purely philosophical with a good history lesson on the animal rights movement, all the way from Aristotle and Pythagoras.
Which I enjoyed and found quite interesting.In general this is a solid book for the animal rights activist.
After being vegan for 1 month, I decided to read this book since it's (one of) the foundational work that started the modern animal welfare movement.The amount of animal torture going on in the world is so insane!
I would be pretty disgusted by myself if I allowed the torture of an animal in order to tickle my tongue with its flesh.This book shifted my opinion on the desirability of animal experimentation.
It allows us, the readers, to be confident that this book is less bias than it would have been if it reported the words of animal activists instead.I recommend you give a look at the Animal Charity Evaluators website: https://animalcharityevaluators.org/.
This is an animal rights classic, and although there are so many animal rights books now, this is still worth a read. It's been a very infuential book to many and hasn't lost much of its impact over time.
i've read some of singer's later work on euthanasia and infanticide. guess it all flows logically from this. i want an edition printed on vellum, and bound in leather.
First released in 1975, Singer's book started the worldwide Animal Rights Movement.
This book tackles the fact that most humans are speciesists (the practices that require the sacrifice of the most important interests of other species in order to promote the most trivial interests of our own species), how western society has historically created this speciesism, how government and agribusiness has continued this dominance.
Singer shows how animal food production, military and commercial research is ethically indefensible but for agribusiness shamefully wasteful depriving the world's poorest from food.
I confess to being a speciesist for the majority of my life due to my previous understanding of "societal norms" and complete ignorance of the human race's treatment of the animal species.
Absolute aanrader, iedereen zou dit boek moeten gelezen hebben! Heel rationeel beargumenteerd waarom men pro vegetarisme zou moeten zijn, niet alleen toen in de tweede helft van de 20e eeuw, maar nu nog steeds.
At the back of my mind for some time was the obvious truth that there is no intellectual justification for killing animals - even less so for the tortuous and barbaric conditions that we force them to endure.
Discussing the vile practice of the “debeaking” of hens and cutting the tails off pigs that are kept captive, Singer asks the question: why do we “mutilate the animals instead of giving them the living conditions that they need?” If you have a reasonable rationale, do let me know.
Ask yourself the question, can you justify eating your dinner knowing that it has caused a sentient creature to be tortured?
Thorough and insightful, but it never addresses my main argument against vegetarianism: bacon wrapped scallops.
Peter Singer’s main argument in Animal Liberation is that humans’ current perception and treatment of animals is morally indefensible.
The current abuse of a being based solely on their species (which Singer refers to as “speciesism”) stems from similar moral inconsistencies that racists and sexists have used to justify their immoral actions throughout history.
This second stance seems more consistent with Singer’s support of taking action to reduce suffering, though it also fails to take into consideration a larger problem: cost and the allocation of resources.
In fact, my complaint with this book is the same as my complaint with welfarism and utilitarian theories of animal ethics as a whole: it acknowledges the problem of animal abuse without striking at the social and cultural principle of animals as resources that enables these abuses in the first place.
Veganism is presented as a noble though hardly necessary step, above and beyond the baseline of considering whether a particular act of consumption is justifiable.
It turns out, for all Singer's condemning of animal cruelty, there are all kinds of justifiable consumptions, but no one effective solution.
It doesn't skate around the subject of animal testing and the meat industry which is important.
At times it was uncomfortable to read due to vocabulary used such as 'retard' but the book is there to shock, persuade and enlighten.The only thing i could say is that perhaps it's slightly outdated, the meat and animal testing industry has certainly improved.
However it still has a long way to go.On the other hand it's and extremely important book for those who want to understand discrimination towards animals and those unsure about the vegetarian lifestyle.
Dette er altså en slik bok.Boken starter med å fortelle om artsisme (eller speciesism på engelsk), som er praksisen å verdsette noen høyere bare fordi de er av samme art som deg.
Vel overbevist om at all den unødvendige lidelsen i matproduksjon er en fæl ting, kommer neste kapittel, hvor Singer argumenterer for at løsningen er å bli vegetarianer (og antakelig veganer også, siden eggindustrien ikke er noe bedre).
-Boken er interessant fordi den argumenterer veldig bra, og jeg kjenner meg enig i omtrent alle argumentene, men de har ikke "brutt helt gjennom" ennå.
Dette er altså et eksempel på en situasjon hvor man er intellektuelt enig med budskapet, men ikke helt følelsesmessig enig.
Not because I don't agree with the research, or because i don't agree with the fact that the food industry encourages animal cruelty, but simply because I'm lazy.The paragraph that summarized it for me was this :What else is it that should trace the insuperable line?
Is it the faculty of reason, or perhaps the faculty of discourse?
But a full grown horse or dog is beyond comparison a more rational, as well as a more conversable animal, than an infant of a day, or a week, or even a month, old.
The question is not, can they "reason"?
Necessary. 40 years has not dulled the persuasiveness or relevance of Singer's argument. His style is the perfect mix of detail without tedium; his choices of exploitation are ideal explorations that aren't bogged down in minutia. The text flows but chapters stand strong alone as well. A pleasure to read, but unfortunate in its need to exist.
This classic makes its case in excruciating and stomach-turning detail, which of course is its intent. Piling on the data may be more persuasive than the mere logic behind the argument for veganism. Essentially, that's the conclusion the book comes to, and I have to say I am convinced. Whether I can put the conclusion into practice is another story.
will be talking about this book on my channel soon! but in short, it was amazing, intelligent, and life changing.
WHY DID YOU READ THIS BOOK?As a vegetarian, I felt it was fitting to have this book under my belt since it’s recognized as the book that launched the animal-rights movement.
I simply feel emotionally dreadful knowing cute, precious animals suffer horrible abuses at the hands of humans within multiple industries, and I will as best I can limit my complicity in it.WHAT DIDN’T YOU LIKE ABOUT THIS BOOK?The cover design is cheap.
