https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1683143._
I approached this book by friendship as a lovely friend gifted me this book as representative of the literature of her country, so my predisposition to read it was beyond the mere literary motivation.However, I have to say, I loved it.
It portrays childhood friendship in rural SL time ago so we have to relate the episodes to a certain historical moment without judging them.The adventures of the protagonist and his friend (like Asians Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn) moved me frequently, made me laugh, smile but, above all, feel an inmense tenderness from the beginning to end.There are books you read but there are others you read and never forget: this is one of the latter for many reasons
This is the English translation of Martin Wickramasinghe's මඩොල දූව. To say something about Prof. Halpe's translation, it's really good so you won't regret reading it. I liked the fact that it has the Sri Lankan colouring with names of titles, food etc. without translated into English. I read the original when I was around 14 and didn't see things I see now re-reading it. Firstly "Madol Doova" is a Growth novel/bildungsroman one of my favourite genres. The narrator/the protagonist Upali is a you
This is the English translation of Martin Wickramasinghe's මඩොල් දූව.
To say something about Prof.
Halpe's translation, it's really good so you won't regret reading it.
without translated into English.
The narrator/the protagonist Upali is a young rebel who finds Madol Doova (Madol island, "Doova" means island) a perfect utopian escape from everything he is tired of back at home.
And I didn't noticed it earlier, being motherless and having a step-mother is a key reason for Upali's rebellious personality.
It's his way of "punishing" his father for forgetting his mother so soon.
*Recommended to Young-Adult/Children Fiction fans
Playful and nostalgic, Madol Doowa tells the story of Upali, a young boy living down South.
He faces tragedy at a very young age, but that doesn't change his playful nature.
Defiant of his parent's expectations, Upali gets up to all manner of mischief with his friend, Jinna, a servant boy at his house.
Madol Doowa has been made into a movie and teledrama, and you can even go see the island which is said to have partially inspired Martin Wickramasinghe, not far from his home in Koggala.
මේ පොත නිලපාට කවරයකින තිබුණ එකක. ඒක හමයනකලම වාර ගණනාවක මේක කියවනන ඇති. හරියට මතවීමක වගේ ඒ කාලෙ මේක.
මේ පොත නිල්පාට කවරයකින් තිබුණ එකක්. ඒක හමයනකල්ම වාර ගණනාවක් මේක කියවන්න ඇති. හරියට මත්වීමක් වගේ ඒ කාලෙ මේක.
The first time I read මඩොල දූව I was 8 or 10. I loved every page. There is adventure, boats, good and bad guys! At that age there is something profoundly evocative in words like Island, boats, adventure and so forth and I have remembered Upali's adventures with great pleasure over the years.
The first time I read මඩොල් දූව I was 8 or 10. I loved every page. There is adventure, boats, good and bad guys! At that age there is something profoundly evocative in words like Island, boats, adventure and so forth and I have remembered Upali's adventures with great pleasure over the years.
gigliiglg
I read this before my grade 5 scholarship examination. At that time I was very interested this. Suitable for Teenagers.
The ambition of the "martin wikrama sinhe" that he going to made. and the social surround at that time of srilanka & down country.
Tbh, I think a lot of the amazing-ness of this book was lost in translation. I enjoyed it, I really did- but at the same time I wasn't really compelled to keep reading. It had a lot of the same vibes that my old Enid Blytons had though, and that was awesome. Maybe one day my Sinhala will be good enough to read this in it's original format. Also sidenote, my boyfriend loves this book, so I guess like any other book, it's subjective!
Famous short novel about an adolescent male with his friend who ran away from their parents and started to live in the Madol Doova island located inside Sri Lanka by Martin Wickeramsinghe.
that book is a very interesting book
A good book to read for young adult readers.
I read both the Sinhala Modal Doova and its English translation by Professor Ashley Halpe.The book tells us about the misadventures and escapades if Upali Giniwelle, a village trader’s son who is motherless and his friends in a southern coastal village.
Though snubbed at first, later he becomes friendly with the boys and learns to help in the farm work.Meanwhile Upali learns that his father is ill and goes to the village to see him and helps his stepmother and stepbrother and goes back to Madol Doova.
This is Sri Lankan famous book.
This book wrote Mr. Martin Wickramasinghe.
Mr. Martin Wickramasinghe is very famous writer was Sri Lanka.
When he dies he was 86 years old.
His occupation is Writer, author in Sri Lanka.
Now I'm going discuss about Madol Doova.That story about island in Sri Lanka.
When his mom was dies he was 7 years old.
Sri Lankan people called 2nd mom is "KUDAMMA" But his Kudamma was very very bad.
His best friend also was Jinna.
If he was adult and went to madol doova to live; with Jinna.
They was first persons of lived madol doova.

I choose this book for fiction part for my English literature subject in ordinary level exams. Its language is very simple and I loved it, it was the translation of the original "මඩොල දූව" by Martin Wickramasinghe. Even though I highly recommend the Sinhalese version for native speakers this translation by Professor Ashley Halpe does no injustice!! Recommended for children and Teens.
සිංහල ළමා නවකථාව ශරී ලාංකික මහා ගතකතු මාරටින විකරමසිංහයන විසින රචනා කොට ඇත.1947 දී පරථමවරට පරකාශයට පතකොට ඇත.1890 ගණන වල ලංකාවේ දකුණු පලාතේ වෙරළබඩ ජීවතවූ උපාලි ගිනිවැලලලේ යන යොවුන තරුණයා මෙහි පරධාන චරිතයයි.ඔහු හා ඔහුගේ මිතුරා වන ජිනනා නොහොත ජිනපාළ සමඟ සිදු කල අපූරු කරියා මෙම කථාවට පාදක වී තිබෙනවා.උපාලි සිය මිතුරා සමඟ පාළු දූපතක ජීවත වීම සඳහා සිදුකරන ලද ඉමහත කැපවීම මෙහි හොදින විසතර කෙරෙනවා.මෙම කෘතිය පසුව දෙමළ,ඉංගරීසි,ලනදේසි,රුසියන,චීන,රුමේනියන,බලගේරියන ඇතුළු ලොව පුරා භාෂා රාශියකට පරිවරතනය කර තිබෙන
සිංහල ළමා නවකථාව ශ්‍රී ලාංකික මහා ගත්කතු මාර්ටින් වික්‍රමසිංහයන් විසින් රචනා කොට ඇත.1947 දී ප්‍රථමවරට ප්‍රකාශයට පත්කොට ඇත.1890 ගණන් වල ලංකාවේ දකුණු පලාතේ වෙරළබඩ ජීවත්වූ උපාලි ගිනිවැල්ලලේ යන යොවුන් තරුණයා මෙහි ප්‍රධාන චරිතයයි.ඔහු හා ඔහුගේ මිතුරා වන ජින්නා නොහොත් ජිනපාළ සමඟ සිදු කල අපූරු ක්‍රියා මෙම කථාවට පාදක වී තිබෙනවා.උපාලි සිය මිතුරා සමඟ පාළු දූපතක ජීවත් වීම සඳහා සිදුකරන ලද ඉමහත් කැපවීම මෙහි හොදින් විස්තර කෙරෙනවා.මෙම කෘතිය පසුව දෙමළ,ඉංග්‍රීසි,ලන්දේසි,රුසියන්,චීන,රුමේනියන්,බල්ගේරියන් ඇතුළු ලොව පුරා භාෂා රාශියකට පරිවර්තනය කර තිබෙනවා.1976 දී ආචාර්ය ලෙස්ටර් ජේම්ස් පීරිස් මහතා මෙම කථාව චිත්‍රපටයකටද නඟා තිබෙනවා.ප්‍රවර්ග:
Can be the best young adult fiction written in Sinhalese.
I cannot remember how many times i enjoyed this novel but if i have time i still love reading it...one of my all time favourites
Something like a Sri Lankan Tom Sawyer. Mischief, adventure, and humor.
Delightful must-read when visiting the Koggala area in Sri Lanka.
Fantastic!........
A Sri Lankan tale of two mischievous boys having adventures and coming good. Reminiscent of Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn.
Children's novel really. Boy goes on an adventure! Sri Lankan style. Was cool to read, cause I've been to Sir Lanka for a while I got some of the cultural references!
A good book for children as well as adults. A story of adventure by two young boys in Sri Lanka.
good
like this book soo much !!!!!
