https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25104465-tipping-the-velvet
Tipping the Velvet carries a variety of themes that have bored me since my first Women's Studies classes in college: identity, cross-dressing, gender roles, and sexuality.
A work of fiction that doesn't suck or make me feel like I've gotten dumber by the time I've finished it.
She loved the variety acts that performed there, but the momentous night that she watched a male impersonator named Kitty, well, that was to be the night that saw her turn her back on her loving family, and take her into a world that would put dear old coastal Whitstable and the Astley family firmly in the past.
This is a story of girl meets girl, as Nancy and Kitty begin a new life together amidst the bright ( and sometimes not so bright ) lights of London and its music halls.
(Waters gets points for many things.
The most fundamental part of a story is conflict, and Waters, who is a deliberative writer, carefully setting the stage and piling on details, keeps the road smooth for a long time.
I don’t want to spoil all the surprises, but I will say that at some point, Waters turns her keen eye for imagery to a strap-on dildo.(Since I know you are wondering: There is sex within these pages.
Reading Tipping the Velvet, with its new spin on old motifs, is like wandering a familiar city and finding a brand new part of town.
Cross-dressing lesbians, kept women, music hall singers, renter "boys" - I mean, what's not to like?First and foremost, this is a book about lesbians (my first!) and written by one at that, so as far as the relationships in this novel are concerned, they are authentic in my mind.
This, however, doesn't mean that in this book women go around doing whatever they please.
Needless to say, Tipping the Velvet won't be my last Sarah Waters novel.P.S. Due to the naked women on the cover this edition is a little challenging to read in public.
Call this the lesbian "Maurice." Girl meets girl...
Odd that in the late 19th century England so many lesbians would all be out and about strolling the dirty streets.
Even odder still that the heroine of the novel happens to stumble upon them all.
This took considerable research, I'm sure, and how cool is it to get this particular point of view?!
The biggest mistake, however, was to give the narrative the first-person touch: making Nan King into a Bella-from-"Twilight"-type, i.e. clueless, trite, sometimes all too selfish girl, which eradicates any form of elegance that would have transformed this novel into something...
Oh, gag! I have SO many problems with this book. What the hell was this supposed to be, anyway? I will go through the possibilities: Historical Fiction Set in the late 1800's, in stuffy Victorian England... we meet Nancy, a young lady who falls fast and hard for another young woman performing in a theatre. Yadda, yadda, yadda, they're a couple. Yadda, yadda, yadda, Nancy is shocked that her sister doesn't accept this. Yadda, yadda, yadda, Nancy meets and beds pretty much every female that subseq
we meet Nancy, a young lady who falls fast and hard for another young woman performing in a theatre.
Yadda, yadda, yadda, Nancy is shocked that her sister doesn't accept this.
Yadda, yadda, yadda, Nancy meets and beds pretty much every female that subsequently crosses her path.
If the character has a vagina, Nancy is sure to be 'tipping the velvet' with her in short order.
I'm not sure if Sarah Waters meant this to be historically accurate, but I just can't believe that it is, in any way.
Nancy didn't endear herself to me at all.
So Nancy runs to this house for wayward girls and poor young couples where she knows there's a bleeding-heart young woman working and the bleeding-heart young woman takes Nancy in and eventually they become lovers (of course) but then the pretty woman singer from the beginning shows up and says, "Nancy, come back to me!" But Nancy's like, "Hell no, bitch, you have a husband.
It doesn't sound like such a bad story, I guess, but the ENTIRE middle part was just so contrived and gratuitous that I almost stopped reading it a couple times.
"I feel like I've been repeating other people's speeches all my life. Now, when I want to make a speech, I hardly know how.""If you are fretting over how to tell me you are leaving-""I am fretting," I said, "over how to tell you how I love you; over how to say that you are the world to me."  3.5 stars. This was my first foray into the writing of Sarah Waters. According to my friends, I have been missing out on some great lit. Now I'm no longer out of the loop!Tipping the Velvet follows a young
The story continues throughout the various changes in her life which force her to take a long internal look at not only how she views the world around her, but also at how she views herself.This is my first experience with historical lit that subtly invokes moments which remind me of an artistic erotic painting - sensual, moving, yet not completely garish.
The way that it was described almost made Nan even that much more charming - as if she were different in her own very special way by having an uncommon occupation.One thing that I love to read about in books is when the story comes full circle.
Every event in Nan's life shapes who she is in the next moment.
It appears that currently the most common criticism of this book on goodreads is that it seems formulaic.
Perhaps I am behind the times, but when did eloquent lesbian coming of age stories set in England 200 years ago become so commonplace as to even HAVE a formula?Ultimately this is a love story embedded in a fluid tale of heart-pounding and heart-breaking moments over the course of Nan's life.
Either the girl gets the girl/boy in the end, or the girl doesn't...predicting the ending with a fifty-fifty shot at getting it right does not make a book formulaic.
why read charles dickens when you can read sarah waters
I absolutely adored this, even more than Fingersmith. So well written, so engaging and moving. I love the exploration of Victorian society, especially of the Victorian lesbian underworld. At its heart, this is just a brilliant coming of age story (with a fair bit of romance thrown in).
So maybe I Googled "literary smut." So?In the comments below my friends are all like, "and this is the best Google could do?" They're appalled.
And that is Sarah Waters' goal, no mistake: she wants to bring smut back to the Victorians.
Super hot for literary fiction, by which I mean "books where the unhot stuff is also good"; pretty tame for erotic fiction.
And socialism!On the secondary question of is it good, my answer is hell yes: I was totally into this.
A lesbo Victorian bildungsroman.
It's the lesbo Victorian bildungsroman we deserve.
If this is the best Google can do for literary smut, it's quite good enough for me.
I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.I first read this novel in 2011, and before that I watched the BBC programme featuring Rachael Stirling and Keeley Hawes, and I remember being as captivated by Kitty as Nan was.
Kitty was still as captivating and self centred as I remembered, and I still loved her for it.
Nan is naive, new to the bright lights of music halls and love.
Well, that depends on what you'd call 'classic', but it's well written, well researched about music hall life and great fun - although the pace is slow at the beginning.
'Tipping' follows the adventures of a young lady from her humble oyster-girl beginnings, to her accidental but no less impressive rise fronting London's performance halls, to her fall into ignominy along the back alleys of the city and the dark recesses of secret clubs and gatherings and her eventual attempt at redemption.
The sights, sounds and smells of places like the oyster parlors in Whistable, the rowdy halls in Canterbury and West End, the dank london back alleys, the dreary working-class neighborhoods--all are so vividly illustrated we are instantly transported there.
I considered not finishing the book at this point, but the excellent writing and the promise of better things to come (I peeked at reviews ;) kept me reading.
Tipping the Velvet  is the fourth Sarah Waters book I have read.
However, as the book is almost entirely her story it became tiresome to read about her so constantly.
I suspect the ending was set up to right all these wrongs but the way this was engineered was so ridiculous that I was pretty happy when I could finally be rid of Nan King and her adventures.
A good read for Sarah Waters completists but not for the faint of heart ;)
This was Waters' debut novel, and she's certainly qualified to tell the story--her PhD was on the subject of gay life and pornography in Victorian England (it's where she found the title phrase, Victorian slang for.....you know what, just Google it.) You also might glance at the description and then start reading the book and think there isn't enough story here to last nearly 500 pages, as I did.
It’s not until she goes with her sister Alice to Palace, an old-fashioned music hall, that her life is changed forever when she sets eyes on Kitty and sees her performance for the first time.’Piercing the shadows of the naked stage was a single shaft of rosy limelight, and in the centre of this there was a girl: the most marvelous girl – I knew it at once!
Sarah Waters is a great storyteller, and she infuses her books with a marvellous sense of time and place, but this book just didn't really hit the spot for me. The main character just didn't seem terribly believable - the transformation from (view spoiler)[ girl with her first innocent lesbian crush to hard nosed street rent "boy" was just too rapid, so that Parts One and Two felt like totally different characters. (hide spoiler)]. I was expecting something a bit racy but found the erotic parts
Sarah Waters is a great storyteller, and she infuses her books with a marvellous sense of time and place, but this book just didn't really hit the spot for me.
The main character just didn't seem terribly believable - the transformation from (view spoiler)[ girl with her first innocent lesbian crush to hard nosed street rent "boy" was just too rapid, so that Parts One and Two felt like totally different characters.
(hide spoiler)].
Not terrible, but not my favourite Sarah Waters book of the three I've read (I really enjoyed Fingersmith and The Little Stranger)
My review on Prism Book Alliance...Lambda Literary Award winner in 2000, TIPPING THE VELVET tells the story of young Nancy Astley.She first finds her way from the simple life of an oyster girl, still living with her parents, to London in the 1880s, following her heart and the woman who caught it, into a live of performance and glamour and love.Later on, she discovers her sexuality in the hands of another woman, a rich lady who takes Nancy in as a kept girl.In the end, however, after ups and downs, she finally becomes a woman who has found her identity, love, purpose, and a home.Nancy’s journey is not an easy one, yet it is quite extraordinary.
And I am on the record saying I want more books about oyster girls, performers and lesbians -- of any era.
An interesting aspect of the story is that to be free of the female gender role is to dress as a man and go out in public as a man.
I have read one other book by Waters -- Affinity -- in both novels she effectively equate a woman's prescribed role and a woman's limitations in a society with a society's judgment of distaste for same-sex relationships.
There's little reason for the two characters to be together beyond physical attraction and proximity, and too much character development is put off till the final pages, with the curtain closing on a flurry of epiphanies.Even for a coming-of-age story, Nancy is quite the chameleon, so while she's interesting to read about, her personality is elusive.
But it's nice to read a different kind of story, and one that focuses on the protagonist's own choices and growth rather than other people acting on her.Overall, a fairly good book.
This is Sarah Waters’ first novel and is a very straight(ha)forward tale of the life of Nancy Astley from age 18 to age 26 as she makes her lesbian progress from Whitstable, Kent to Bethnal Green, London, from oyster girl to music hall star to toy boy (ha) and beyond.
I have read some reviews which have lavished praise over TTV because of its saucy sex scenes.
And thirdly, I read reviews which say that our heroine Nancy is horrid, self-centred, stupid and totally uncaring of other people’s feelings.
Hey, it’s a good read!3.5 stars.
When I first picked up this novel, I was expecting an exciting romp through Victorian England, complete with lesbians, a little sex, and lots of adventure.
On that account, this book succeeded marvelously.Tipping the Velvet is the story of young Nancy Astley, who grew up cooking oysters at her parents shop and occasionally visiting the nearby theater/dance hall.
She performs on the stage, gets her heart broken, lives as a kept woman, works as a male prostitute (yes, really), and meets many new and interesting people in London's underground lesbian community.
Tipping the Velvet would make a great pleasure read, but don't look to it for much more than that.
I've been duped...Last year, approaching Summer, I saw a tweet from Stephen King recommending summer reads.One of the suggestions was "anything by Sarah Waters", and that led to comments such as "ingenious storytelling".
It was brilliant.I also tore through Tipping the Velvet because I knew, based on all these "ingenious storytelling" raves, I trusted that eventually she was going to turn this tale on its ear.
Aaand then it was over.Tipping the Velvet is a well loved novel, but not because of a twisting plotline.
But for my money, to stand this beside Fingersmith as a great and interesting caper and ingenious story?
But all the time I kept thinking about Moll Flanders.
Don't get me wrong, it's not the same, it's far from Moll's "adventurous" life.
Erotic scenes take a lot of place in book, it's all very beautifully written but also graphic, so if you're not into gay/erotic stuff, you should probably avoid it...I didn't really like Nancy's character for a long time, she seemed to be too selfish and pleasure seeking mostly, but at same time she was brave and honest, so I guess she was a good lad after all.
Good story, great language, interesting characters - what's not to like?
This is sweet and Romantic, it is also sometimes a little bit of a bodice ripper I suppose, but absolutely has the elements of a real tragedy.
For so many I can imagine this story came as one of a another place and time, but absolutely otherwise familiar and overdue.
The story was lovely, if at times a bit overdone or direct when a little more nuanced hand might have better served.
For me the first third and final hundred pages or were spectacular, I think the middle was a little more spotty.
Tipping the Velvet is a great debut novel by a great writer, and that is a rare treat to find.
Concerning the story of Nancy, a young girl from the British countryside, Tipping the Velvet develops as a coming-of-age story set in Victorian England.
That Nan happens to be a tom (Victorian equivalent of lesbian) and that this coming-of-age story involves quite a few sexual scenes is a nice extra, but not the main drive.
If this is only the first book by Sarah Waters, I cannot imagine what her other two are like, and what she has in store for us in the future.
In fact, there could not be a more perfect description of Sarah Waters' novels.
My only interest in this book was a running curiousity of what the author wass going to pull next.
It's really, really, really pathetic.Her gender identity is so fluid, that it's as if it doesn't exist at all.
What happens to be in her wardrobe is the best indicator of her gender role at the moment.Certainly Waters' pivotel work was 'Fingersmith.' It set the stage for all of her works--whether they were written prior to or after its publication.
If I were making a recommendation of a Waters book--It would no doubt be 'Fingersmith' instead.
...'we were girls with curious histories – girls with pasts like boxes with ill-fitting lids.'My lid has never seemed to fit properly!This is a I can't possibly review this review.Sarah Waters can do no wrong in my eyes.
She could publish her shopping list and I'd give it five stars.Every book I've read by this author (all of them) pleases me like nothing else.
I feel as though I'm not worthy or wordy enough!I am suffering from the biggest book hangover ever.
There is always the naive young woman who falls for the more worldly but jaded woman and learns of the forbidden love only to scare her new soul mate straight!
There you go, that's the twist to every one of Waters's books that I've read so you might as well save yourself the time and read something better.Also in Tipping the Velvetyou might learn something about oysters and where the best ones are apparently harvested.
You can learn how to prepare oysters and how to eat them.
All this information is in the first chapter.
It is by far the most interesting chapter of the entire novel.
