https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13074.Strip_Tease
Fortunately, she also has her biker bouncer buddy, Chad, and a police sergeant who takes an interest in the case after his fishing vacation is spoiled by his son discovering a "floater" who happens to be one of the inconvenient little people.Like Hiaasen's other novels, Strip Tease tucks trenchant social criticism and cynical political commentary into a colorful cast of weirdos, crazies, working class folks, conniving villains, lecherous creeps, smart chicks, decent cops, corrupt politicians, scheming ex-cons with hearts of gold, and half a dozen subplots that all somehow manage to drive the main plot forward in clever ways.
Good summertime read/listen. 4 Vaseline-covered stars. :DI've read/listened to 3 of Hiassen's books so far, and they're very deceptive. On one level, they're mindless fun, hilarious and farcical, poking fun at a state that always seems to be in the news because of its over-the-top citizens. (I wonder if he gets his book ideas from the local evening news...) On another level, the books are complex and clever, massive Gordian knots that are neatly untied by the end. At any rate, I'll keep reading them!
this is my first encounter with carl hiassen for grown-ups (having eagerly devoured 'hoot' and 'flushed' a few years back), and i am pleasantly surprised and ready to become good friends with carl hiassen-for-grownups.
combined with his gift for crafting complicated, sprawling plots that always manage to resolve in a satisfying manner, and characters that are believably good, bad, crazy, etc., without being shallow, what resulted here was a really funny, really entertaining, readable novel where the heroine is a stripper and the rest of society are revealed as frauds, only in a much more endlessly readable way than that promises.
good job, carl hiassen!
This has an average rating of 3.5 !?!
Is that cause it fits in your purse?
Is that cause you can read it drunk, upside down, with the lights out and still not miss a trick?
The book could have worse, but is that any methodology for handing out stars?
The fact that this book has a rating of 3.5 makes me want to gouge my eyes out and rely on listening to indie films for entertainment.
But I won't because there are a lot of really good books yet to read (and a lot of indie films suck too).
The other dancers, who are entertaining characters in every sense, think she is missing opportunities for making real money.One night at the club, called the Eager Beaver, the judge who refused Erin custody of her daughter, and another lovesick little man who the strippers nicknamed Mr. Peepers, and a drunken party of young men out celebrating because one of them, Paul Gruber, was getting married the next day, were all in the club watching the dancers.
But Jerry Killian has a crush on Erin, and so he decides to help her by blackmailing the Congressman with the photos to force Dilbeck to put pressure on the religious divorce judge, who also loves the dancers too, but biblically, of course.
Carl Hiaasen's works are usually very funny, intelligent, witty, creative, with a happy ending.
The imaginative characters, the adventure, the great use of irony and sarcasm, he keeps you guessing how things could possibly all work out for the best, and they do in his books which I like.
I also like the positive ecological theme that runs throughout many of his books.
Hiaasen's works are great diversions in life, and if you look at them the right way you might even find a surprising improved perspective, but perhaps that's simply from the number of laugh out loud moments.
Strip Tease reinforces why Carl Hiaasen is one of my favorite authors! This a stand alone book,so it can be read by first time readers of Hiaasen
There are some very humorous remarks in this story until the plot gets a bit in the way. I wish he could have only dealt with the funny, but I know comedy is hard and only masters are capable. Not that Carl Hiaasen isn't when he sets his mind to it. 6 of 10 stars
When the customer disappears, his body later found by Florida detective Al Garcia while on vacation in Montana, Garcia links the death to a missing attorney and his cousin, who happened to be the fiancée of the man who was bludgeoned by Dilbeck with the champagne bottle.
There’s quite a cast of characters, between the bigshots behind the scenes keeping Dilbeck’s career on track to the cast of dancers and crooked managers of both the Eager Beaver and its rival club, the Flesh Farm.
Hiaasen's humorous story of a woman, Erin Grant, who resorts to dancing in a strip joint to raise money for an appeal to gain custody of her daughter.As the story begins, Congressman Dave Dilbeck who can't control his libido is at a strip club when a drunken party goer jumps on the dancer's stage and begins groping one of the dancers.
The fiance of the man Dilbeck hit with the champagne bottle is in on the extortion plot Mordecai has set up against Dilbeck.A Sgt. Al Garcia is the person who finds Killian's body and then takes a personal interest in the case.The novel was full of humor and enough scheming that the reader's interest is held.
I’ve given up on trying to figure out Hiaasen's sequence of novels.
I’m not sure where Strip Tease falls within the Hiaasen hierarchy of novels but I would recommend it as a good funny read without too much political buzz and not complicated with his swamp caricatures.
A friend has recommended Native Girl as even better, but I have to read something of substance before another Hiaasen novel, too much mind sugar can rot your brain.If you insist, the story line is about a tittie bar striper with a heart of gold that after many trials and tribulations comes out on top (without a top).
Strip Tease, written by Carl Hiaasen and set in South Florida in the 1990’s is a hysterical crime fiction that preaches about the evils of the sugar industry. Government officials are bought and paid for by lobbyists of these companies. This book also touches on the injustice of working women that are single mothers fighting an unfair divorce settlement. In this case, the movie was not even close to as good as the novel.
This was not my favorite Hiaasen novel. Only the end saved it from 2 stars.
I remember laughing through a lot of it, just like I did while reading the book.
Burt Reynolds definitely was a hoot playing a sleazy and corrupt Florida politician.
Sometimes I have a hard time picturing in my mind what the characters in a book look like.
It made it easy this time, being able to picture both of them as I read.
A native Floridian who grew up playing in the nearby swamps and scrubs with his friends, Hiaasen now rails against every developer who wants to rape and bulldoze the land and turn it into shopping malls, golf courses, and condos.
I decided to go with the oldest one on the shelf, "Strip Tease".It was a fun book to read, wild characters, straightforward plot.
If his other books are like this one, great summer reads at the pool or beach.So, we have an ex-FBI employee, Erin, who has decided to dance at a strip club to pay legal fees to fight a scum-bag ex-husband for custody of her daughter.
She also has Mr. Peepers, a customer who attempts to blackmail the congressman and winds up dead in Montana, found by a Florida detective who is on vacation and gets involved to help Erin.Over the top characters, my favorite was probably Shad, and a wild ride.
I had never tried Carl Hiassen before but have been seeing his books on bookstore and library shelves for years and know that he has a good following so I decided to give him a try.
I’ve no idea if this one would be a good recommended starting point but there it was…so I read it.
This author does have several series going but this one is a stand-alone novel.
The main character in this novel, Erin Grant, is not like that.
Talk about a sleazeball.This was an interesting read, combining a hard-boiled crime plot with a lot of intelligent humor and interesting characters.
This author is terrific with his sense of humor and his quick wit.
Erin the beautiful stripper, Shad the educated conniving bouncer, Al Garcia the tough minded detective, Congressman Dilbeck the drunken womanizer, Moldy the political fixer and Darrell- Erins felonious ex husband.
What a terrific story.
At the end of the night a drunken groom hugs Erin up on stage and a disguised Congressman jumps up and beats him with a champagne bottle putting him in the hospital and putting off the grooms wedding.
Moldy has a hard time controlling Dilbeck even with the help of Erb Crandall a security man assigned to the Congressman.
A bachelor party on the eve of the wedding takes a wrong turn when the groom stumbles on stage with a dancer, Erin Grant, at the Eager Beaver.
An unidentified wild man jumps into the fray and begins hitting the groom over the head with a champagne bottle.
Unfortunately for the Congressman, some things cannot be easily fixed.
In this case, the fix is the beginning of a series of deadly events.
Her friend and bouncer, Shad, is the back up muscle who makes every effort to protect, in between his get rich quick scams.
This makes for an entertaining and read.
Personally, I'm not sure any Carl Hiaasen book deserves the 5-star Goodread's "it was amazing" description, but Strip Tease comes very close.
Soon afterwards, I learned the 90s movie Strip Tease starring Demi Moore was based on this book.
In fact, Strip Tease is probably one of the best Hiaasen novels I have read - up there with Skinny Dip. Many of the negative or luke-warm reviews appear to be from Readers who are probably not Hiaasen fans.
But if you don't like Strip Tease, then don't bother reading any other Hiaasen books; you will never be a fan.
Her ex's job is stealing wheelchairs but the criminal is a snitch and therefore his criminal activities are hidden from family court and he gets custody.During one of Erin's performances a groom-to-be gets carried away and Dilbeck, a congressman starts pummeling him with a champagne bottle.
Mr. Peepers takes pictures of the whole event and assures Erin he can put pressure on Dilbeck to put pressure on the family court judge.
The end result is a dead Mr. Peepers.The mystery continues collecting dead bodies and involving the lovable bouncer of the strip club trying to score a lot of money on a fraudent lawsuit.Hiaasen writes a witty and funny mystery.
A drunken man celebrating his bachelor party, starts to hug and grope a topless dancer, inciting rage in another customer who hits him repeatedly on his head with a champagne bottle, until the bouncer drags him off.
The photograph becomes the catalyst for a number of incidents.
Political fixers attempt to protect an unraveling Congressman, an ex-husband drug addict stealing wheelchairs while retaining custody of a child, scorpions and roaches being used in scams to extort money from corporations, murders and a dancer and homicide detective looking to set things right.This is a thriller set on a simmering boil all the way till the end.
I've found my new Elmore Leonard in Carl Hiaasen as this is the second book in '09 of his I've read--liked this more than the first.
Like Leonard, Hiaasen takes a huge collection of characters, gives them all great dialogue/scenes and turns them loose in a story that usually involves some kind of criminal type behavior by some/all of them.
And it's highly entertaining.
This is just pure entertainment and when it's this much fun count me on board for the ride.
I read this book when it first came out, back before they made a movie out of it, and I loved it.
Either my tastes have changed over the years, or this book really wasn't as funny as I initially thought it was.In this second go around with this novel, I found the characters to be one dimensional; flat like soda with no fizz.
Typical Floridian politics rounds out the plot as well as several murders, a nice cop riding to the rescue and no love interest whatsoever.Trite plot, flat characters and more boobs than you can shake a stick at, made this a painful re-read for me.
This book is hilarious!The audiobook narration is fantastic as well.
I felt each character had his or her unique voice.
I particularly enjoyed listening to Dillbeck's lines.
The narrator does a superb job at representing his personality.
I told someone this book would make a good movie.
Well, I didn't get the memo, and apparently, it happened back in 1996 with Demi Moore as Erin Grant.
Well, I never watched the movie because I don't really care about her acting.
Maybe I'll watch it now.
The more Hiaasen's books I read, the more I like him.
Carl Hiaasen books are always entertaining. Usually set somewhere in Florida, and always crazy story lines. So far, we have a stripper who is stripping to make money to get her kid back from a crazy drug enduced ex-husband. We have a guy and his buddies that go to a strip club for his bachelor party, who proceeds to get knocked out by a champagne bottle by the hand of an important person. And several other little storylines. So far so good....Just finished this book. A pretty weak ending, but a rather entertaining book as a whole. I liked it.
I've enjoyed other Hiaasen books, and I liked the movie for this one, but I didn't have any fun reading Striptease. I felt it was mean-spirited, and overly violent. I didn't really sympathize with any of the characters, and I felt everyone was painted black or white, there was no nuance. I know character development is not the point of a book like this, but I expected it to be funnier, not so dark.
Another great read by Carl Hiaasen. His book took me on a roller coaster ride that I loved. Strip Tease is a book that I will remember for a long time. The laughter, suspense, cries and love will have you falling in love with this fantastic book. Karma is real believe that and you will see a lot of payback in this book. A mother's love for her child is priceless. Erin is one strong chick that I loved from page 1. Grab your copies of you haven't. It's a must read
Hiaasen is up to his usual tricks. This one really takes aim at politicians and sleazy lawyers, but is actually a bit "tamer" than others of his works. It all starts in a strip club when a congressman beats a drunken groom who has "overenjoyed" his bachelor party.
What's not funny about a strip club called the Eager Beaver? Very funny mystery that had me laughing loud on several occasions! Sometimes get confused with the many different characters, but worth a listen. 7 out of 10 for me.
This was back-to-back Carl Hiaasen book in the Omnibus. Although I have a small sample size, I have understood the general theme of Hiaasen. He picks up an amazing joint to start; for example here is the strip club. And put that strip club into Florida and larger than life and fucked up natives of Florida. The book is a weird combination of humor, suspense, philosophy, action and what not! Great characters especially Darrel Grant. I need to read more Hiaasen books.
