https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183199.Warlock
The venerable Thomas Pynchon wrote a laudatory back-cover blurb for Warlock, a book that he indirectly directed me to via his introduction to Richard Fariña's Been Down So Long it Looks Like Up to Me, wherein he details its prominent role in the pair's Cornell days and how their own whole sick crew adopted the vernacular of the beleaguered characters making their ways through this novel.
It was appropriate to return to this subject matter in the place in which I first came to terms with my own understanding of justice, right, and wrong.The other reason it is appropriate is that this book felt a lot like school, both the good and the bad.
On the off-chance you do take a stab at this novel, I hope that you too will have an experience that is not unlike the good and the bad of high school reading.
(By the way, from the mouthbreathing vantage of my sofa, all of you nerds mooning over Bolaño and Pynchon look like Urkel.) Anyway, even though this western novel has a lot of insightful things to say about the precariousness of law and order in civilized society, you can forget all that if you're not into intellectually redeeming qualities—because it's just a good old-fashioned matinee yarn.
(Suddenly, while typing the previous sentence, I've lost interest in writing this review—mainly because it's 4:30 AM and I'm hungry—but I want to tell you that you should read it because it's really, really good.
Los buenos no lo son, o no lo son tanto o no lo han sido siempre, y los malos, pues tienen sus cosas, sus formas de hacer, de pensar, con lealtades que están por encima de otras consideraciones, aunque también los hay hijos de puta, dignos seguidores de una larga saga de hijos de puta.
Pero lo que no es del pasado son los temas que en este libro se tratan.El autor parte de una sociedad en ciernes, donde confluyen multitud de personajes con estados de evolución social muy distintos y con concepciones muy dispares de la justicia y del orden.
At every turn in the story Hall reminds the reader that frontier life was forever covered in blood and dust, and when humanity works hard to create a hero out of a human, the best that can happen is that person will fail miserably.
Hall writes the story showing the worst that comes from hero worship.Right carries the seeds of Wrong within it ...
For what is Right & Wrong in the end, but opinion held to?This novel was short-listed for the Pulitzer in 1958, and it was a Pynchon review of the book that pointed me to it.
If you haven't already read Pynchon's encyclopedic blurb above, let me direct your attention to it right now.Done?
And the beauty of it is that Warlock may be a novel of ideas, as he argues, but it is not primarily that.
It's primarily a thinking man's Western, a history of authority, a gritty tale of revenge and strife.
Although even knowing about it seems to require that one has read the intro to Been Down So Long it Looks Like Up to Me, which is where Pynchon mentions Warlock.
Ed alla verità di quella storia questo romanzo dà un contributo importante.Il West fu anche quello di una umanità che smetteva di cavalcare e tentava di strutturarsi in società ; che a un certo punto passava dalla predazione all’allevamento, all’agricoltura o come in questo caso allo sfruttamento delle miniere.
Perché non appena gli uomini si fermano più o meno stabilmente dentro a quattro mura che si affacciano su una strada si pone il problema delle regole: di chi le stabilisce e di chi ne garantisce il rispetto.
E quanto resistente sia la mente degli uomini e delle donne a faticare per riportare sotto un qualche controllo il calderone che gli ribolle dentro.
. a place where passions in all things run high, and men go armed as they wear hats against the sun, and where a large proportion of the inhabitants is of the ignorant and unwashed class, if not actual renegades from the law elsewhere.
It's a place where the dust itself is a character.
Like the judge:"Some men drink to warm themselves," he said.
"I'm leaving tomorrow," she said.The storyline, which will keep your attention, weaves in such a way as to take in notions of government, of justice, of class struggle.
And yet, what are Right and Wrong in the end, but opinion held to?
I can't really think of a way to explain it without sounding kind of hokey, but it doesn't come across that way in the book at all.But anyway, it IS a western, and so you have the outlaws, and the new marshal and his friend the saloon owner, and the concerned townfolk, and a lot of showdowns.
Only this book is concerned with the source of Order and Right (Men are wild, not wicked, said Rousseau, who knew not Warlock) and so, as it turns out, some people are more satisfied with the chief outlaw keeping order among his men than with the new marshal imposing the law.
Maybe I wasn't entirely in the mood for an existential moral western, or maybe I just don't know enough about frontier history and ensuing mythologies to completely appreciate the subtleties of reference and jumping-off framework for the larger themes at play here, but nonetheless, this is a damn fine book.
And almost every character is constantly shown from conflicting sides, like a Janus coin flipping in the hot, dry, dusty desert air into a blur of both evil and good.
As Pynchon noted in his fantastic review, Hall's novel illustrates the fragility of human society, and the quality of Hall's writing and the depth of his characters separate this novel from your standard western fare.
"Warlock" is deserving of its inclusion as a Pulitzer Prize finalist.I admit that it takes awhile for the novel to pick up steam (there are, after all, about 15-20 central characters that have to be developed), but once the stage is set, this novel is excellent.
Tom Morgan is such a rewarding character to read about and he alone might be the reason I feel the need to give this five stars.
this book is like a world.
a really small world, in that it all takes place within one tiny western frontier town, but by the time it ends it's like you know every inch of the place and every corner of every townsperson's soul and understand everything about the whole entire world, except somehow it's all still a wonderful, terrible mystery.
anyway, this book is amazing.
if there's a reason this book isn't famouser than famous, i don't know what it is.
except i suppose, the fact that it's a western.
Tanto di cappello!
(pun intended)Talmente cliché da essere meraviglioso, questo libro è un concentrato del mito del vecchio west: sole a picco, scalpiccio di zoccoli e tintinnio di speroni, folate di polvere, porte a vento, whisky, cespuglio di salsola* che rotola su una Main Street improvvisamente deserta perché “There’s a new kid in town” e l'alba è l'ora dei duelli.Cowboy, sceriffi, pellirosse, banditi, bari, pionieri, fuorilegge, prostitute, cavalleggeri, barbieri e pianisti che rischiano la pelle.
Lupi solitari dotati di colt, chaps e bandana d’ordinanza e che sotto la scorza del duro e cattivo hanno un cuore tenero.Questo è il vecchio west.
Questa è Warlock.Menzione d'onore per Tom Morgan.*non sto scherzando: a un certo punto...
"Soon a number of us were talking in Warlock dialogue, a kind of thoughtful, stylized, Victorian Wild West diction.” Pynchon’s influences are encyclopaedic but this book seemed like an odd choice: a retelling of the story of Wyatt Earp versus the Clanton Gang in Tombstone, Arizona.
“I am not going to see him choused and badgered and false-sworn and yawped at fit to puke by a one-legged old son of a bitch like you!” Warlock is full of talk of “burned up peace officers” and “San Pablo hardcases.” I never thought of Pynchon as a writer who engaged in much regional (or temporal) vernacular, but it’s all over Against the Day. Again, this could be the result of listening to the audio book version, but the frequency and ease with which he slips into “thoughtful, stylized, Victorian Wild West” diction is startling.
Nicely written but a bit drawn out; I think the book could have been 50 pages shorter and possibly been more effective.
I wouldn't give Mr Hall full points for originality, however - his gunfight at the Acme corral is practically a carbon copy of the OK Corral shootout, right down to what were reported to be direct quotes from the principals involved in the latter gunfight.
The Rattlesnake Canyon massacres were obviously derived from the historical Skeleton Canyon and Guadalupe Canyon massacres.
I suppose that Hall's drawing so much of the story from actual events would almost justify shelving this book in the historical fiction section.
’„There are rules, Morg,“ Clay said.„Why?“„Because of the others – I mean the people not in it.“’  Za mene je Divlji zapad uvek bio nešto posebno. Kada se stavi na papir sve ono što podrazumeva, uopšte ne deluje kao stvaran istorijski period, udobno uglavljen u izvesno vreme i izvesno mesto. Daleko više podseća na roman. Maltene crno-bela moralna previranja, petogodišnji folklor, republika iz anarhije i anarhija iz republike, čitav jedan period čini se kao da je izašao iz pera a ne da se stvarn
Maltene crno-bela moralna previranja, petogodišnji folklor, republika iz anarhije i anarhija iz republike, čitav jedan period čini se kao da je izašao iz pera a ne da se stvarno dogodio.Šta onda reći o Warlock-u, koji je svakako roman a ne istorijsko-činjenični zapis, jer kako sam pisac kaže „uloga fikcije je da traži istine, a ne činjenice“; koji je vestern u svakom smislu te reči; koji ima neke od najinteresantnijih likova koje sam sreo u književnosti uopšte; koji je meditacija na temu Heroja, anarhije, ljudske prirode, religije, republike, nihilizma, nade, ljubavi i još stotinu drugih koji čine Warlock-ov svet stvarnim; koji ume i da bude poetičan, jer ima li šta lepše od nedodjije nad kojom sijaju zvezde?; koji je malo trapav sa fabulom, ali kad ubode, to je kao da ugledate neku drugu prirodu; koji je bio omiljeni roman Tomasa Pinčona i Ričarda Farine na fakultetu; koji uspeva da na najubedljiviji način ovenča raskol emocije i pravde i ljudske (ne)savršenosti; koji je nešto najbolje u vestern žanru čak i kad se uključe filmovi (samo mi ne dirajte u Džesi Džejmsa i Roberta Forda)?
Here's an article from the S.F. Chronicle about Hall's life:__________________________________________Oakley Hall, a prolific author and influential writing teacher best known for the novels "The Downhill Racers" and "Warlock" - and as a founder of the Squaw Valley Community of Writers - died Monday night in Nevada City.
Among the writers who studied at Irvine and whose careers Mr. Hall helped to launch are Richard Ford and Michael Chabon.Founded writers' groupIn 1969, Mr. Hall co-founded the Squaw Valley Community of Writers, an annual summer writers' conference in the Sierra Nevada, where emerging writers gain world-class instruction from famous authors and mingle with literary agents and publishers in a beautiful setting.
Reread
So you have a a historical event that’s become an American myth peopled by legendary figures like the Earp brothers and Doc Holliday, which Oakley turns into a powerful story about mythmaking, justice, the fragility of society.
These camps divide and redivide like amoebas as the plot of the book proceeds, and we begin to understand that Warlock is as much about us, the public that invests its “heroes” with qualities they don’t and can’t possess as it is about the main characters.
It took me some time to understand this since I am a bit culturally far away from it, but when I finally did and started researching the references every piece fell into place.Hall uses some of the most cherished characters from the American mythos retells and humanizes the events of Tombstone, Arizona.
That is, the Gunfight at the O.K. Corrall and the characters of Wyatt Earp, Doc Holliday, and Big Nose Kate, placed on the fictitious town of Warlock.
The reason for it is that Hall not only messes with the mythical Doc (Morgan), Wyatt (Blaisedell) and Kate (Miss Dollar), but also performs an open heart surgery on American society and institutions.
I visited Tombstone and walked those mythic steps made memorable thanks to TV, movies, the generally accepted version of the settlement of the Wild West.
As always, the physical reality of Tombstone and the Corral was a million times smaller than the version modeled on my imagination.
Like Mount Rushmore: a miniature compared to what you expect.Oakley Hall takes that mythic western moment and reduces it to its human elements, reduces the heroes to actors in a play not of their making, reduces every human actor to a slave of community.
By exploring the human elements of the western myth, Hall creates a mythic tale.
È una cosa terribile, triste e crudele da capire, come lo è lo scoprire che l’unica giustificazione consiste nel tentativo, non nella conquista, giacché non vi è nessuna conquista; sapere che ogni giorno può nascere con auspici migliori del precedente e terminare in maniera altrettanto orribile, se non peggiore.
Posso guardare le fredde stelle di questo cielo nero e credere con tutto il mio cuore che lo stesso firmamento si stendeva sopra Betlemme, e che una stella simile a queste abbia scintillato in quel cielo perché il cuore degli uomini cullasse in eterno false speranze?Questo è il cielo di Getsemani.
Quello di Betlemme è svanito insieme alla sua stella.” – p.
Unfortunately, reading this book well over 30 years past its publishing has dated it severely. Perhaps this is in part due to it influencing writers that would far outstrip this book on all facets.Slow moving, weak prose best read by intellectual wanna-be's with too much time on their hands.
Other residents include Johnny Gannon, a former associate of McQuown's, who returns from a long sojourn away after an unspeakable incident of violence; the suspicious and callous Tom Morgan, Blaisedell's close and loyal friend, who always seems to be at the center of controversy; a whiskey-bloated judge whose holier-than-thou harangues often comprise the only backbone of Warlock's morality; a mysterious woman in black who rides in on a coach and adds an explosive element to Warlock's chemical makeup; an insane General who holds the town's fate in his hands; a romantic do-gooder whose virgin love wreaks havoc with the primary players.
The only familiarity I had with Oakley Hall was through Thomas Pynchon, who has raved about Warlock at various points.
In fact, as far as I can tell, Hall got there first--this has got to be one of the first revisionist Westerns.
Just about everyone who lived in Warlock makes an appearance as a character in the book at some point.One of the aspects of the book I found very interesting was its focus on the process of the mythologization of the west in real time as the events being mythologized were actually occurring.
Certainly, this should be read in tandem to Cormac McCarthy's (anti-)western novels, which I do give that perfect rating to.But about the book.
In the same way that McCarthy simultaneously grounds his western settings as the establishment of modern America while allegorizing them for every society, every attempt at civilization, every base interaction between men - so does Hall with the town of Warlock.
Warlock is two books: a tight genre piece rife with all the trappings of a western and a modern examination of the reality behind the west, behind myth, and behind our own actions.
Son muy interesantes los temas planteados con una gran objetividad que se aleja de maniqueismos.
¿Está bien usar una norma ilegal como la del destierro cuando la justicia está corrompida para expulsar a los criminales?
Los duelos son muy buenos, magnificamente narrados, se masca la tensión.
Los personajes son extraordinarios, muy complejos, con muchos matices, nadie es del todo bueno o malo.Un error conduce a otro error, una muerte lleva a otra muerte.
Los hombres matan y mueren por orgullo, por una palabra, porque es lo que se espera de ellos o por simple mala suerte.
En Warlock la muerte juega con cartas marcadas.Muy recomendado para amantes del western.
Too, believes Benner, Calhoun, and possibly Friendly are road agents.Miss Jessie runs the General Peach, a kind of hospital that she runs on finances unknown.Blaisedell courts her.
Benner, Billy Gannon, Calhoun, and Friendly to be posted along with Frank Brunk, of the miners.
Abe.Talk of Blaisedell, the trial, Kate Dollar & John Gannon.
Not your father's western.
Beautiful writing, a departure point for McCarthy and others who have tried to take on the mythology of the American West.
Hall stays in reality, though he distorts the myths in service of his in own story...
That is, this novel is no more historical than the popular conceptions of the figures portrayed here are.
But it is more likely.
And probably more true.
I felt the book lost itself a bit in the second half.
Maybe it's 4.5 stars.
the title is after Hall's fictional town.
This is not one of those fantasy westerns.
stopped at page 150. perfectly good genre fiction of course, but a hard-boiled Western simply isn't much what I'm interested in reading these days, with the stuff on my to-read list. Nevertheless, if you're in the mood, this is a decent adventure.
