https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10372.Summer_of_the_Monkeys
I'm ashamed that it's taken me so many years to start reading Wilson Rawls books.
This book is written from the perspective of a 14 year old boy, so of course he's going to find his twin sister, Daisy, nosey and annoying since she enjoys teasing him constantly.
I think people made too much out of these "issues" but that's just my opinion.This book had one heck of an ending; I can't put into words how beautiful it was.
I felt everyone's emotions at the end, I dare you not to feel them, too.I'm so sad that Mr. Rawls only wrote 2 books in his life...
Oklahoma 1895.
A young poor boy with a crippled little sister gets an opportunity to make things better when a group of monkeys escapes a circus wagon accident and he can make money by capturing them again.The young boy and his dog is in for some laughter and serious life lessons when the monkeys outsmart them on a daily basis.
His grampa teaches him the core values in life.
For me it was a wonderful, funny, deeply-moving-read.
An easy read with great humor keeping the suspense glued to the characters.
Anybody can read it.
Disney ruined this book when they made it into a movie. The novel is vastly different and so much better. A great read aloud that will have you both laughing and crying. I like this book much better than, Where the Red Fern Grows, which the author is more known for.
(And this comment comes from me, a person not interested in animal stories!) No question, one of the best books I’ve read this summer!This is a story of a young boy, Jay Berry, growing up many decades ago in the Ozark Mountains, who discovers a group of monkeys living in the trees down in the river bottom area of his family’s property.
(I did – and remember I’m NOT an animal person!) This will be one of my strongest recommendations to the 4th graders I share books with every month.So sorry Wilson Rawls wrote only two books – both 5+ stars from this retired elementary school librarian.
Now when we read both Wilson Rawls' Where the Red Fern Grows and Summer of the Monkeys in grade six, while most of my classmates seemed to prefer the former, I for one enjoyed Summer of the Monkeys rather more, mostly because it had a less heartbreaking ending (with Jay capturing the elusive circus escaped monkeys, his twin sister Daisy getting her necessary operation, and Jay also obtaining his two dearest wishes, a pony and a rifle, not to mention that Jay's relationship with his grandfather moved and cheered twelve year old me).
Overflowing with folksy sentimentality, this is my all-time favorite “boy and his dog” story.
The dog doesn't die, and the story has a completely happy ending!
Rawls also wrote the more famous (and famously tragic) Where the Red Fern Grows, which was originally published in 1961 but whose sales did not “take off” until the early 70's.
I've never understood why that book is so much better known than Summer of the Monkeys – I much prefer stories where the dog doesn't die – but there's no accounting for popular taste.This was published in 1976, and was a family favorite when I was a kid.
Given her condition that's quite a commendation for a book.
Not quite sure what to believe Jay Berry goes along with her, just in case The Old Man is real.
I liked her ever so much!I remember not reading Farmer Boy by Laura Ingles Wilder when I was younger because it was a boy and I thought it would be dull.
But just like I loved Farmer Boy and his escapades I loved Jay Berry's adventure, and they both had mischievous sisters.This book had one of the best endings I've come across in a YA book, I can't put into words how beautiful it was.
Summer of the Monkeys is my new favorite book.
How in the world was I a school librarian for so many years without reading this book.
What a great book for a novel study, for teaching voice, setting, use of language, point of view, etc.
I want to run out and read it to somebody right now.
Just a wonderful, wonderful book.
I wish Wilson Rawls had written more than two books.Some of my favorite lines:It was so still in our kitchen you could have heard a dream walking.
Read this book and then share it with children.
life would sure be miserable."Such a delightful coming-of-age story!
A timeless classic One that lifts you up and reminds you to cherish those near and dear to you, loving family and friends with unselfish abandon, and to keep pressing forward towards your dreams, even when there are more than a few monkey wrenches in your plans.
"I don't care what kind of problem a man has, he can always find the answer to it in the library.
Somewhere, in one of those books, we'll find the answer to our monkey-catching problem."FOUR **** Timeless Classic, Coming of Age Stories, for Young and Old Alike **** STARS
Summer of the Monkeys is one of my all time favorite books.
She loves all the animals in the woods and doctors anyting that need is, including Jay Berry and his dog, Rowdy.
One of my favorite passages from the book is right after Daisy finds a fairy ring and they all make a wish.
Jay Berry asks his dad if he believes the wishes they made at the fairy ring will come true.
I think prayer and really believing in your wish can help more than anything else."This book is filled with endearing characters.
Hands down, this is one of the best books I've ever read.
I don't know why I've never read it before and neither have any of my children.
This book will make an excellent read aloud with children at about the age of 8 or 9, when they are starting to have hopes and dreams and are able to do things on their own.The opening paragraph sums it up: "I got mixed up with a bunch of monkeys and all of my happiness flew right out the window.
Set in the late 1800's, this is a story about a young boy named Jay Berry and his run in with a troop of monkeys that have gotten loose in the woods near his home.
He tries everything under the sun to capture the monkeys because there is a big reward.
The monkeys seem to be able to outwit him at every turn, that is until the night of the big storm.
Jay Berry and his loyal dog, Rowdy, learn something about monkeys each time the perfect plan fails.
My kids really enjoy this book. It seems to hit all ages pretty well. I am enjoying it again, and my youngest two (who were bored while reading Seventh Son) are now really enjoying this book. Even my oldest kids enjoy listening in.Wilson Rawls is a great story teller, and he writes a lot of situations in this book that make the kids laugh out loud. The suspense is great too. The kids hate it when a chapter ends and we might be done for the night. "read on!" they all say.
I loved this book. I love reading children classics. And since I work in Barnes and Noble in the kids department, it is very easy for me to find this wonderful reads. Loved this book. Definitively recommend it!!
This was a pretty quick, easy read. Makes you want to laugh,cry and cheer...sometimes all three at once.
My book is Summer Of The Monkeys by Wilson Rawls.
It's about this boy Jay Berry Lee and he lives in hard working underclass family.
Jay Berry is just your average farm boy until he realizes that there is valuable circus monkey down in the swamps on his land.
Jay Berry knew that if he catches these monkeys he could get himself something nice or help out his family with the money.
This book takes place in the 1800's rural Oklahoma.
I liked this book it was probably one of my favorite books.
I highly recommend this book to people that like adventures and exciting books.
Wow! I could barely get through that last three chapters without crying the whole way through...Every Mother and Son should read this book together. So touching and I am so glad I had this experience reading this to my son.....And NO, I never read it as a kid....
I bought this book to read to my 10 year old son.
This book is such a wonderful story about a boy that is from a poor family, he goes on an adventure with his dog catching monkeys that got loose from the circus.
His relationship with his family is such a great story all in itself, and will make you remember special times with your grandpa.
We as a society got jipped!
Thank God his wife made him go to another publisher after she found the book in the attic many years later...
Now this is a classic! I thoroughly enjoyed this book when my mom read it to me in the past. I think I might have read it again a second time by myself. Anyway, I loved it! Jay (I believe), and his crippled sister, and his faithful dog, his endearing grandpa, and the bottoms full of monkeys!Maybe this year is the time for a re-read of Summer of the Monkeys! :)P.S. The movie doesn't come close. Not even.
Wow!! A new favorite!!! This is a must read!!
Soooo much better than the movie.

What a completely endearing story! I haven’t read this since 5th grade, so the details were gone for me. Laughing and crying all the way through, I enjoyed rediscovering why this is such a classic children’s book.
I liked this book. It was an interesting idea, and my kids would have loved it, had I read it to them.
Great young adult story from an author who also brought Where the Red fern grows, another awesome story
Humorous and Inspiring Jay Berry just cracks me up. This book had me laughing on every page. And yet, scattered throughout are passages that inspire. Jay Berry learns about hard work, perseverance, prayer, reading the word of God, sacrifice, and love. It was truly a great read and one I look forward to reading to my kids as they get older.
I loved this book when I read it on my own when I was little, and I loved this book again reading it aloud with my boys. That Wilson Rawls makes me cry every time.
The boy’s relationship with his crippled sister, his family’s state of poverty, the (much more Christian than I remembered) legend of the Old Man of the Mountains, the fairy ring--all of these come together to provide an underlying core of heart and meaning in an otherwise fun story.So as I read Summer of the Monkeys again I not only loved reading and remembering my own first experience, but I absolutely absorbed the reactions of my 10-year-old daughter and 8-year-old son with intense satisfaction as they laughed at all the right places, dropped their mouths in surprise at all the right places, threw their hands up in frustration at all the right places and … well, did they cry at the place where I did as a kid?
This copy, given to me by my aunt Rhonda, is inscribed "Scotty Jones 6." I don't think I was quite that young when I actually read it.Set in Eastern Oklahoma, not far from the area I grew up in, this is the tell of a young boy, Jay Berry and his dog Rowdy who in the late 19th century experience a great adventure one summer.
Jay Berry sets the goal of capturing them and winning the prize money so that he can finally buy the .22 and pony that every boy desires.Jay Berry must also contend with his Mama's fears and anxieties about his boyhood adventures and the sometimes annoying presence of his crippled twin sister Daisy.
Jay Berry Lee lives with his Mom, Dad, and sister in Oklahoma Cherokee Ozark.
His grandpa told him that there was a reward for the monkey.
This made Jay very excited to capture the monkeys and he had his grandpa and dad helped him out.
The big monkey was really smart and kept getting away from Jay and Rowdy.
The central conflict of this book is man vs nature because Jay is trying to capture the monkeys.
Jay does not capture the monkeys but he keeps trying because he wants the money so he can get a pony and a .22.
