https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17425617-the-mackinnon-s-bride
We got it free on Bookbub, I think it's $1.99 on Kindle right now.It’s been a good long while since I’ve read one of these vintage highland romances and even though this one does fall victim to several tropes of the sub-genre it was mostly a lot of fun to read.Scotland 1818 When Iain married Mairi it was with the hope that their union would end the feud between their clans.
One of the downfalls of reading books in the same genre for a little over twenty years, is the repetitive feel they sometimes get.
This wasn't bad but it definitely had a been there done that feel to it; it had faint echoes of a Scottish Garwood.
Along with the nothing new feeling I had, the insta-lust and the immature heroine had me skimming some pages.
The story arcs of the villain feeling wronged and Page's father not wanting her were ok along with the developing romance between Iain and Page but again, not particularly original.
There was never an anticipation or feeling of fun to their journey.
This book is a novella length story stretched out into novel length by a lot of silly stuff and redundant inner monologues.
I personally cannot enjoy fiction that contains characters who do dumb stuff that makes no sense while the author goes on and on with a lot of neurotic internal monologue in an attempt to justify the stupidity of what the character says and does.
Really, if the characters are genuine and the story authentic, the lengthy detours through the rumination swamp are unnecessary--in this case the author could probably cut away 3/4 of this nonsense and save the reader the trouble of having to skim through so much wasted redundant verbiage.
The MacKinnon's Bride (The Highland Brides Book 1) by Tanya Anne Crosby  Thanks for the heads-up, Samantha!!http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B009...#1 Bestselling Historical Fiction#1 Bestselling Historical RomanceDescription:Scotland 1118Descended of the sons of MacAlpin, Iain MacKinnon refuses to bow to the English.
When his young son is captured by a minion of the English king, the fierce Scottish chieftain vows to stop at nothing to secure the lad's return.
Retaliating in kind, he captures the daughter of his enemy, planning to bargain with the devil ...FitzSimon's daughter has lived her entire life in the shadow of the man she called father--yet never would she have imagined he would forsake his only daughter.
I think he did an excellent job overall, but I can't abide listening to a male narrator voicing the heroine.
The big guy who had fleas and talked constantly about his ingenious dog, Mary Bells, was great.
Most of the alpha-jerk heroes I enjoy reading about are men I could NOT deal with in real life.
I think I may have to name my next dog Merry Bells.The villain was disgustingly villainous with no redeeming characteristics, yet he managed to not be cartoonish.
That'll show 'em who the real alpha male is.
Overuse Use of the word "mayhap" should not be allowed. Ever.
Two Wounded People Looking for LoveFirst in a Scottish historical series, this story is set in 1118 (prologue) and 1124, and tells the story of Iain, laird of the MacKinnons, and Page Fitzsimon, daughter of an English earl in Northumbria.
Most of the story is occupied with the travel of Page and Iain from her father’s castle in England to Iain’s donjon in Scotland.
Then, too, Iain must learn who the traitor is who was involved in his son’s abduction.There isn’t much history in this one, and surprisingly none of the tension between the Highlander hero and the English heroine comes from their different nationalities.
I don't know what was wrong with me the last time I read this book.
This is NOT 5 stars worthy.What's with all the "!" in this book?
Are we 5 years old?
A heroine who wanted her father's approval but never got it.
A hero with his young son met heroine.
Abduction, rescue the young one, then abduction again then hero and heroine were attracted to each other but I couldn't figure out why.
I started re-reading romance when I read this book over a year ago and can honestly say that I didn't know what a 5 star story was then.
Libro sin mas pretensiones que pasar un rato agradable.... La historia no tiene ni pies ni cabeza ya que no he entendido como se puede pasar al amor en dos paginas.... El de las da de muy salvaje y bruto pero luego es un cacho de pan , ella es una acomplejada de la vida que no te dan ganas de darla de tortas.... y el lenguaje no tiene nada que ver con el de la epoca....Lo dicho sin mas pretensiones....

I think I tried to listen to this one earlier this year via the ARP, but I gave up because it was slow-going and male-narrated.
Not that I mind a male-narrated audiobook, but it didn't sound all that Scottish, at least not the part I had listened to, and I was highly doubtful that he could pull off the female voices.
However, upon giving the book a second chance, I find myself chagrined to admit that the narrator was actually pretty brilliant.
I expected a lot of banter and a sexy brogue and the author and narrator alike delivered.
It was fine, but it was really predictable.I didn't have high expectations to begin with (I think it was free or really cheap on my kindle), and I like predictable books in this genre, but it almost felt like nothing happened.There was a running monologue between the two main characters, and then...
Nights pass, days go by, but I have no idea how long the characters are traveling for, so I had no idea how long the characters have actually known each other?ALSO, SOMEHOW THE FEMALE CHARACTER (who is English) GETS ALONG FINE with an ENTIRE CLAN OF SCOTSMAN after like a day.
The MacKinnon's Bride is a historical romance novel.
Iain MacKinnon captures your heart from the first page.
The dialogue of the book captures the Scottish accent as if you were actually there.
Iain loves his son beyond all others and so when he is kidnapped he, in turns, kidnaps, Page, the daughter of his son's capture believing he can exchange her for his son.
I found it hard to put the book down.
It is a true romance that was very enjoyable to read.
Tanya Anne Crosby is now one of my favorite authors for romance novels.
This is a rewrite of a Harliquin romance turned clean and sweet.
I love anything Scottish or Irish that is clean and well written.
This story doesn't have much movement or action it takes place over the course of a handful of days and too much time is spent in the characters minds.
It did keep me reading and engaged but I was irritated with too many long paragraphs of inner reflection.
This is still an adult read with some sensuality.
Even rewritten these story's do not have the feel of a pride or prejudice type book.
Can Iain win his fair lady’s heart, or will his withholding the knowledge about Page’s father destroy any tender feelings she has for him?Not only is there a beautiful romance between Page and Iain, there is a marvelous, action-packed plot that kept me engaged throughout the entire book.
I truly loved her character and wanted her to have her happy ending.Iain, the MacKinnon is also a great character.
I really like Tanya Anne Crosby and when her new book was paired with the talent of Braden Wright as the narrator, I didn't think twice & bought this audiobook.
Crosby gives readers two leads, Iain MacKinnon (Highland Laird), and Lady Page (daughter of an English nobleman) who are easy to become emotionally invested in.
Ian MacKinnon will stop at nothing to get back his son who is in custody an English nobleman, FitzSimon.
Aside from these distractions, I enjoyed the leads, their sweet romance and their relationship with Iain's son, Malcolm who was adorable.
For some reason I have not had the pleasure of reading many historical romances lately.
And this one left me wanting to read many more!It jumps right into the story of Iain and his glorious accent.
It takes authors a lot of work to get the accents and pronunciations correct and this was dead on!
I felt like I was in Scotland the entire time!
And putting the brogue aside, I felt for Iain right from the beginning.
And this is after he promises himself that he would never touch her again if she didn't want him to.
I could not put this fabulous historical romance down.
God her dad was a dick!!! Took a while for the sexy parts but I couldn't put this story down! Loved it!!!
Dated and predictable. 2.5 stars
The peripheral characters had varying degrees of awareness for me.When Laird Iain MacKinnon's son is taken and handed over to the English by a traitor the Scottish chieftain reacts by going after the daughter of the man holding his son.
What he does not expect from FitzSimon after returning his son is that he would tell Iain to keep the girl because he has no use for her.
Page FitzSimon believes that Iain is acting in bad faith when he does not send her home, but knows deep in her heart that he is not to blame.You have two stories playing out here, The MacKinnon and Page are the romance.
Eine leichte Geschichte für zwischen durch mit wenig Tiefgang. Aber ganz nett für so nebenbei. Ein typische Liebesgeschichte.
3 stelline e mezzo
It was just a beautiful journey for her, and she came out stronger in the end.What I really loved about this book was the anticipation that was building up between Iain and Page.
Yummy to the nth degree.Now if that wasn't enough that was going on, there was the villain of the story that presented that air danger to their journey, and Page and Iain, at first had no idea.
All I knew was that he wanted to hurt Page and Iain deeply.
Very good story!
I loved Malcolm and Ian was a lovable bear of a man.Much of the story takes place as the Scots are returning from rescuing Malcolm to their home.
They have been saddled with Page whose name is nothing more than the name of a servant.
Page has not been treated well by her father, and hopes that someday he will realise she is someone to love.Ian cannot stand any man that throws away his child so easily, even if that child is a daughter.
It made my heart ache for Ian.Page is a very good character.
The McKinnon’s Bride is the first Tanya Anne Crosby book that I have read, but it will not be the last!
From the first page, I was drawn into this exquisitely written story.
My heart broke more than once for Page and I was glad to see her get away from her father.Tanya doesn’t just tell this story.
A master artist, but instead of using paint or clay, Tanya uses words to paint beautiful, sweet, and exciting stories.I have since read all the books in Tanya’s series and each one is even better than the last.
However, The McKinnon’s Bride is still my favorite.
Another I gave up on! Just so immature and silly. Not realistic/believable, insta-lust, and constant lusting! Also found the dialogue weird, every other sentence, full of Scottish pronunciations ,interspersed with sentences with none!Would not recommend!
This unfair situation for women continued until well into the Twentieth Century.An arranged political marriage between Iain, laird of the MacKinnon and Mairi MacLean, the daughter of the head of a rival clan but this union was far from loving or even amicable.
Mairi loathed her husband’s touch but in the year 1118, an heir of this union was born; Malcolm.
1153) contracted the laird of FitzSimon to abduct the six-year-old Malcolm for the English King Henry I (b.
In an attempt to secure the release of his son, Iain captures Page FitzSimon, the only daughter of his son’s warder.
A typical historical romance with the handsome hero and the spitfire damsel who doesn’t think she’s much good to anyone, especially the one whose love she really wants.
Never mind the disrespect to the corpse!Meanwhile, The MacKinnon, who’s heard her father’s opinion of her and understands what her name implies, feels sorry for her and wants to give her a new start with his people.
It’s still funny watching the couple watch each other and want each other and being watched by everyone else.Tanya Anne Crosby wrote this book quite awhile ago, and I got the 20th Anniversary Edition from Nook.
This is a wonderful treasure for those of us who have enjoyed "The Highland Brides Series".
This is The MacKinnon's Bride 20th Anniversary Edition.
It is a little treasure because not only do you get the anniversary edition of a very good story between Iain MacKinnon and Page FitzSimon, but you receive a much requested epilogue to MacKinnon's Hope (Bk. 6).
Then there is the bonus in the anniversary edition, which is the Highland Brides & Tribes.
This is a reader's companion book to the Highland World's if Tanya Anne Crosby.
There is so much more tidbits in this companion book.
As a fan of this author I truly appreciate these extras that compliment the entire series.
Clean sweet version of The MacKinnon's Bride with extra or expanded scenes not in the original novel.Language: "No profanity"Sensuality content: Clean romance. "Kisses only with no love scenes".Source: Free on Amazon at the date of this pre-review.
