https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552347.Myth_Directions
This review is dedicated to Iceland team of UEFA Euro 2016. Guys, you showed everybody you do not have to be a high-paid pro to play a good game. “When old friends get together, everything else fades to insignificance."- War, Famine, Pestilence, and Death.Every chapter of all the books of the series starts with a funny epigraph; I could not resist using one of them above. Anyhow, Skeeve was bored out of his skull doing his job of a court magician (this means doing nothing). It did not help any
Guys, you showed everybody you do not have to be a high-paid pro to play a good game.
“When old friends get together, everything else fades to insignificance."- War, Famine, Pestilence, and Death.Every chapter of all the books of the series starts with a funny epigraph; I could not resist using one of them above.
And so Skeeve went despite Aazh gloomy and pessimistic prediction of an upcoming disaster resulting from the trip.
A bold theft went very wrong and Skeeve barely escaped back home to ask Aazh to help him get Tanda out of a tight spot.
Are you looking for a funny fantasy?
Are you looking for a funny read and do not mind reading fantasy?
I liked the first two books and "Myth Directions" is also a short, fun and easy read.
I liked the new world and it’s strange people (I found some resemblance with people I know, so it was really delightful to imagine that :D ) It was interesting to meet the new member of the sports team, the big brother of Tanda.Maybe the next time I’ll meet a horde of themThough, I think I’m getting tired a little bit of simplicity and the lack of strong, nasty villain(s), so I decided to dive into one more book from the series and after that give it a break, to strengthen my love for Aahz and Skeeve and to enjoy the series with new force.
Let the Games Begin20 June 2016 Well, it is 11:30 (it was 11:00 when I first started writing this review but my computer crashed which mean I lost everything – so much for autosave) and while I should be in bed fast asleep since I do have to go to work tomorrow I would rather be sitting here writing my review because, well, I would rather write a review than think about going to work, especially since my brain juices get a lot more exercise doing this than what I do for eight hours in a day. Min
Mind you, I probably would have finished this review by now if my computer hadn't crashed and I had to do a hard reset (and no, I don't use Windows, or a Mac, but that is beside the point), but I guess I'm going to have to continue talking about this book because, well, I would rather do that than lie in bed (and I can also catch a snooze on the train on the way to work).
Mind you, it is interesting because we all get distracted by these games and in many ways it simply seems that it is very much like what happens in Jhak – two teams go at each other once a year and the winner gets bragging rights – that's pretty much about it.
The time around our apprentice magician, Skeeve, finds himself touring a few demon worlds in the company of Tanda.
Tanda tries to steal the item, which of course goes horribly wrong with hilarious consequences, and soon Aahz and a host of Skeeve's other friends are drafted in to help rescue her.
If I had a favorite moment in this book it was probably the short, but very funny, time Skeeve and Tanda spent on the snail world.
It's a pity this is the last book in the series he narrates.
I hope Noah Michael Levine who records the newer Audible versions of the series is able to match Woodman!
This installment was as fun as the previous one.
It was great to follow Tanda and Skeeve in their search for a birthday gift for Aahz through the dimensions.
I loved seeing more of the dimensions and the creatures that inhabited them.
Then when they finally settled on a gift I thoroughly enjoyed all the mishaps and adventures that led to the hilarious resolution.
It was great to see some old acauantances again.
The intros were just as hilarious as before:) Moving on to the next installment and hoping the Audible narrator will be just as good as Mr. Woodman.
This is book three of the series, and you already know that I like this series.
The fantasy elements are there, but it's really the situations and characters that make these novels so much fun, not the fantasy aspects necessarily.Look, I'm just not going to be able to do justice to these books.
I enjoy them and I think that they are a lot of fun to read, so if you ever want to read something fun and light, then picked this series up.(My only real criticism of this book has to do with the voice talent that reads the book on audible.com, and really the only character that I don't like the way he reads is Tananda.
Fun book. Team sports are just friendlier version of war. Half measures win out in the end.
Just too silly (smiley face). Lots and lots of fun. I'm still really enjoying the series. Now on to HIT OR MYTH.
In fact, the “game” part of the story doesn’t get going until almost the end, although the name of the dimension (Jahk) where most of the action takes place and the local population’s obsession with sports seems to presage it.
This book introduces the characters of Chumly the troll (who turns out to be Tananda’s brother) and Maasha the magician, both of whom make good additions to the cast.
We also get to catch up with Quimby, the demon-hunter-turned-court-magician, and Gus the Gargoyle, and see Gleep the dragon start to grow up a bit.
This is the 3rd book in the Myth Adventures series, and just as enjoyable as the previous outings.
This time we follow Skeeve, a magician's apprentice, and Tanda, a lapsed assassin, as they travel through various different dimensions trying to find a suitable birthday present for Aahz, a Demon from Perv.
They also become embroiled in that Dimension's major sporting event.
Once again there is a wonderful blend of a good plot, magic, mirth and myth.
We also meet some more wonderful characters along the way.
This series is a light hearted escape from reality, and so far a highly enjoyable read.
Even though the structure of the storyline is very similar to the previous installment ( Conflict, Team Assembly, Final Showdown with two teams ), I did enjoy the banter and especially the interplay between Aahz and Skeeve.
I think Asprin is not really very good when it comes to creating female characters and they feel more like female "fantasies" by a male author (which they probably are).
A great installment in the Myth series ( definitely as good as the first two ) and a nice - albeit much less known - alternative to Pratchett (not that one needs one anyway).
Troy turned me on to this series of books. This was another great read from Asprin. It has a little bit of Fantasy, Comedy and Adventure. I have a copy somewhere for loan but can't seem to locate it right now.
With the exception of Terry Pratchett no can write fantasy comedy like Aspin. These are great reads and you will laugh the entire way through. Highly recommended
I thought this was a step down in the series.
Whereas the previous book pushed forward the arc of the characters, this book felt like a complete one-off.
The plot of this book is also a lot weaker than before.
The characters' motivations are hand-wavey.
It is just strange and inconsistent with their previous character development.
The whole book just feels very low stakes - who really cares about this random trophy?
It feels like author had an idea for the characters to play some sort of a football game, and quickly sketched out a plot to try to get them there.
I just didn't get into this one! Which is frustrating, considering my enjoyment for the previous two. I found myself skimming much of the story, especially when it came to the game. The lack of Tanda was disappointing. I felt that Skeeve moved out of "cutely dimwitted" into "intolerably whiny". Hoping the next one will click better with me.
While I still very much enjoy the cast of characters, this particular story was a bit circular for me. Though the creativity abounds in making up the game and the dimensions. I do still enjoy the jokes as well.
If you've made it this far in the Myth series, then you, once again, won't be disappointed. Easy reading, funny, clever and witty, and just all around good fun. This time, you get a better sense of just how much Skeeve and Aahz can't help but get into trouble, and you get to meet fun new characters, like Massha! Not to mention getting to hang out with old favorites.
It was nice enough, but not too good
Gave the story a shot but even after the first ten pages, I wasn't invested it, the world, or the characters. Even tried browsing other sections but none could entice me to read the entire thing
A very good series, that I would highly recommend, especially if you like your fantasy books to not take themselves too seriously.
Not as catching as the first two, but fun and imaginative:) love the catchphrases that are often not understood
Автор немножечко сбавил обороты. Возможно, сильно очеловечил эту часть, сбавил количества волшебства и неожиданых поворотов. Но при этом, это все так же приключенческая серия.
This third book of the series wasn’t quite as clever as the first two. I enjoyed but missed the clever humor and word-play of the previous books.
On the run up to the Superbowl, it seemed appropriate to dive into the football caper in this series. It’s still tight and funny.
A Trophy, a Sportsball game, and Aahz's birthday, oh my! Skeeve goes shopping with Tananda for a gift for Aahz and things go wrong - which is par for the course for him.
This was another funny story. This story is about gambling and birthday present (for Oz). Love Gleep.
Another imaginative romp! These books are great fun!
Cute and very punny! Skeeve and Tanda go off to get Aahz a birthday gift. Trouble in many dimensions ensues culminating in a game to end all games.
Each book is essentially a caper where Asprin weaves a huge cast of vivid characters into entertaining and often amusing situations.
What I like about these books is that Skeeve and Ahz and company don't win the day by being the strongest or the most powerful.
The humor is situational and character driven, but also makes extensive use of puns and pop culture references (though some of those are a bit dated at this point).
I plan on reading more of the series whenever I want to take a break between other books for something more refreshing and fun.
In the end, Skeeve and the rest of the gang get roped into playing a sports game in order to rescue Tanda and get Aahz his trophy.The series is lousy with recurring characters, as Quigley makes another appearance.
I'm fine with it here, though; the series is lighthearted enough that it's not a bother to find the universe to be so small as to focus just on this handful of people.Like the previous two books, the story ends suddenly, focusing on the characters above the plot.
