https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/983079.The_Master_of_Hestviken
While she experienced success in her native Norway with her early modern novels, it his her pair of Medieval epics, "Kristin Lavransdatter" and "Master of Hestviken" (the latter was published as "Olav Audunsson" in Norway; its English translation was given the the title seen above.
Undset has a deft touch with her characters, they are so utterly human that they seem to jump off of the page and into the readers' hearts.
Undset's prose, as translated into English by Arthur G.
Never once did the book lag, over the length of its near 1000 pages.
And I think this is a tool of bringing us closer to the characters because, with them, we also can sense what it is like to feel snow against our faces, to ski, if we have been so fortunate, through a winter forest, to lie on a warm rock in autumn, to shudder when bed blankets freeze to the wall, etc.There are few essential characters in the books although there are numbers of persons who appear in it and take roles at one time or another.
It's the tale of the life of Olav Audunsson, a member of the landed gentry in late 13th century Norway.
It's very long and filled with plenty of beautifully written detail about medieval life in Norway.
The main concerns of the book seem to be the ways in which a man's sins can shape his life, and about the balance of good and bad in a person's character.
The Master of Hestivken is not quite as good as Kristin Lavransdatter, Undset's other work set in medieval Norway.
The characters in The Master of Hestikven are not as strong - not in Undset's portrayal of them, but in their natures.
He thought of what Asbjorn had told him one day of the art of reckoning - how the nature of God was revealed in figures, through the law and order that reigned in them.
Arithmetica , he thought it had such a fine sound and all that the priest had expounded about the harmony of figures - how they swelled and cleft one another according to mystic and immovable laws; it was like being given an insight into one of the heavenly kingdoms; on golden chains of numbers the whole of creation was suspended, and angels and spirits ascended and descended along the links.
And his heart was exalted in longing that his life also might rest in Gods hand like one of these golden links - a reckoning in which there was no fault.
four novels in one binding - the first one is really cool, has lots of violence/action parts, talks about honor, interesting look at nordic traditions, cool plot developments.
with all the talking about honor, family names, one's house, etc, it reminds one of all of those klingon episodes on star trek next generation.
not bad by any means, but i think that books 2 - 4 could have been cooler if set a couple centuries prior and written by someone who wasn't so into jesus
This is a novel in 4 parts, and I have only read part 1 "The Axe" so far (separate review).
But I have to finish The Brothers Karamazov before a book club meeting, and it was a little insane to try to read this one at the same time.
But I will definitely come back and finish the other three parts.
It is classic Undset-- beautifully written, gripping, challenging.
So far, I do not like this as well as Kristin Lavransdatter, but it is definitely worth tackling if you are a fan of Undset's work.
Consists of 4 novels - The Axe, The Snake Pit, In the Wilderness and The Son Avenger.
The first book is action packed from start to finish - a bloodthirsty tale of seduction, revenge and thwarted love - themes carried on throughout.
The novels trace the life of the hero Olav and his family.
Conflict between his religious faith and a deed committed early in his life haunts him forever.
The middle two books have much less action and more reflective, building up to climax.
A very profound book.
The Axe is a favourite and a compulsive read.
Ok so I didn't actually finish it... I kind of skipped ahead to the end, near the end of the third book. The ending is much more hopeful than Kristin Lavransdatter and for that I am thankful. 3 stars because the parts that are good are amazingly excellent but it was just too dense to read for fun at this point for me. I'd recommend it to anyone doing their masters or PhD in Lit, Religion or Norse history.
Sigrid is an AMAZING epic tale weaver--this series is like the "Kristin Lavransdatter" series--so incredibly freaking GOOD. I NEVER get tired of her writing!! I spend my free time on a quest for books like these. Elusive....
Undset knows how to get across the fact that choices we make in our youth affect our days. Another Norwegian medieval tale.
This volume includes The Ax, The Snake Pit, In the Wilderness, and The Son Avenger. Although a bit dark, I enjoyed these tales tremendously and find Sigrid Undset to be a master story teller.
Somehow I got distracted while reading this fabulous book. I will return to it. Undset creates an entire world deep characters.
Nobel Prize edition, pub. 1934. Not quite gently used but lovely color of binding.
