https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2585686-the-catbird-seat
That was a funny ending. Didn't see it coming.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Interesting little short story - I got lulled into thinking I knew what was going to happen and I didn't. Good one.
A decent story that may take certain people a bit longer to understand. Other than this, the story has a great idea, an the main character, Mr. Martin's plan seems like he had been plotting it for 20 years, although it hasn't been 1.
the story is hard to comprehend. I don't know if it's because of my reading level, but I found it diffcult to comprehend. I got the wrong idea from the story; I only realized when we reviewed it in class.
NOT ENOUGH MURDER
One of the best memorable tales of cunningness, revenge and humor, I ever had enjoyed years ago in Sabrang Digest.
Great colloquialisms.
I think we're supposed to laugh at Mr. Martin's lack of ability to actually commit murder (he's wimpy, nervous, bungling), yet I didn't feel convinced that he couldn't do it.
I'm wondering if it's because a lot has happened in the world since this story was published (1942) or if it's more just my personal idiosyncrasies that found this dark more so than humorous.
I say "indirect" because strictly speaking it's not gaslighting in this story, since Mr. Martin isn't trying to convince Mrs. Barrows that she's crazy; rather he's convincing others that she's crazy.
It's been years since I've read this delightfully funny, warped short story, and it was great fun to read it again last night.
Thurber's sense of humor is just perfect, and I found myself chuckling several times as I read it.
(Actually, my husband and I read it together, and that was even more fun.) I could picture the antagonist, Mr. Martin, and the incredibly irritating antagonist, Mrs. Barrows, perfectly in my mind, and I sympathized with poor Mr. Martin's frustrations in his workplace.
This may have been written over seventy years ago, but the humor was still fresh to me.
Opening lines:Mr. Martin bought the pack of Camels on Monday night in the most crowded cigar store on Broadway. It was theatre time and seven or eight men were buying cigarettes. The clerk didn’t even glance at Mr. Martin, who put the pack in his overcoat pocket and went out. If any of the staff at F & S had seen him buy the cigarettes, they would have been astonished, for it was generally known that Mr. Martin did not smoke, and never had. No one saw him.You may read online FullReads.
The Catbird Seat by James Thurber is about a man named Mr. Martin who thinks that a co worker, Mrs. Barrows is trying to replace his job. Even though this story is a comedy, I didn’t think it was funny. I did learn some metaphors like, “tearing up the pea patch.” This story does use irony as humor, but it doesn’t build up the irony at all. I recommend this story to people who think that metaphors are funny.
I was hoping for perhaps a little bit more, but it was clever, amusing, and well-written. Definitely a little different as twists go. I just loved this quote opening the second paragraph:"It was just a week to the day since Mr. Martin had decided to rub out Mrs. Ulgine Barrows. The term "rub out" pleased him because it suggested nothing more than the correction of an error ‐‐"
Heard a bit of a reading on NPR and I was intrigued, so I looked for another reading online when I got home.There is a decent reading by Keith Olbermann though he reads a little fast.http://m.youtube.com/#/watch?v=sxLCjO...A copy of the story is athttp://www2.cob.ilstu.edu/mpdumler/Ca...I'd like to get a copy of The Thurber Carnival.
I really liked this funny short piece. It was a movie I understand, but I never saw it. I have been a Thurber fan since high school and I like his off beat sense of humor story-telling. There's a good chance you will enjoy this very amusing tale.
Read this for English/Language Arts, and although it was a little confusing and rather strange, I enjoyed reading it, which is more than I can say for some of the other short stories that I have read.
A readable enough story, but kind of lack impact - to paraphrase Bill Cain, three acts of build-up to a murder that doesn't happen.
I enjoyed this story, I wish I could remember the title of the collection it was in, there were some really good stories in it! I wish I could think of such a clever way to deal with workplace bullies.
WEIRD. I don't see the point of it.
One of the examples of the Entartainment Literature. Thurber is using the unexpected as irony. We are unable to know whether it's a dream or not but it's a well-written story.
A most cunning story. Quite clever is the main character, and it is hillarious. Short story but a MUST read!
one of my all time favorite short stories...on the to-read again and again list
This was an incredibly clever and delightful story. I loved the little twist of things at the end.
I say amazing because for an author to actually make me laugh out loud is quite a feat. Just a really smart, quirky short story.
Absolutely brilliant. 4 pages, unassuming character, one event. Sheer brilliance.
Quick, fun read about the lengths a man will go to remove a pest.The story made me chuckle, especially at the end, as the main character worked out ways to make life return to normal.
This was a great short story. I highly recommend it.
This was a fun short story. I thought it was going one way and it twisted into a brilliant ending. Very well done.
Deceptive illusion
