https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12595.Delta_Wedding
Her depiction of children, their actions and ways of thinking, are as realistic as any I've ever read.Favorite quotes: "You never had to grow up if you were spoiled enough.
Women, she was glad to think, did know a little better--though everything they knew they would have to keep to themselves....oh, forever!Women do have the upper hand in this book, at least around the old plantation house in 1923, at least when planning a wedding, and keeping the men out of their way so things can get done.
Her cousin, Laura (9 years), comes to visit the Fairchild family.
They eat, they prepare for the wedding and retell family stories.
All may appear rosy on the surface, but underneath lie secrets, calamities and scandals.Think of a large family gathering extended over several days.
Think of those large family gatherings in which you have partaken.
I wonder if family gatherings are all just fun and games.
The non-existent plot doesn’t pull me in and I see no sign of in-depth character portrayal.My suggestion is that you take a peek at the text.
If I were to ever try to set this down in words, I would want my story would have a tenth of the power and raw energy of Eudora Welty's Delta Wedding.I have read half a study's worth of "southern" novels, and none of them have depicted the culture in which I grew up.
Eudora Welty's Delta Wedding is a welcomed exception to my reading experience.
In a large part, the theme is about the implicit depth of dedicated superficiality, and the plot flies in the face of conventions like conflict and pacing, favoring a surrealist or impressionist approach to more conventional narrative structures.
Luckily I see I am not the first to call it " a jumbled up mess." Here's the bit I understood.
The book is about the Fairchild's a large lively Southern family living on a plantation called Shellmound in the 1920's.
) is roughly 40 + and they are there for the wedding of Dabney the sweetheart of the family and Troy the overseer.
There's a child Laura , a nine year old girl whose mother has died who is the first person introduced in the book as she journeys to the wedding.
Luckily she will continue to pop up throughout the book which means someone will be familiar.
The cast of characters is extensive and working out the relationships between the various members of the Fairchild clan isn’t straightforward.
What is important to Welty is place and family.
Laura’s mother has recently died and she is going to stay with the family for the wedding:“Laura from her earliest memory had heard how they “never seemed to change at all.” That was the way her mother who had been away from them down in Jackson where they would be hard to believe, could brag on them without seeming to.
And yet Laura could see that they changed every moment.
Laura was certain that they were compelled – their favorite word.”As a reader you do become immersed in the story and the texture of it.
Eudora Welty writes books that seem to be about nothing in particular.
I was never, of course, one of THESE Southern belles, with the portico porches or land wealth and stores, but I can easily recall days when everyone from five generations would be gathered together in this same kind of family mash that sometimes brought with it ease and sometimes strain.
You are safe, as they are safe, because you have family, you belong, someone cares.It has taken me a long time to get around to reading this wonderful story.
I can add it to my list of Eudora Welty wonders that I have loved.
I will never give up anything, never give up Troy - or to Troy!" She thought smilingly of Troy, coming slowly, this was the last day, slowly plodding and figuring....And still, there's something deeply Southern in Dabney's greed, something that life in the lush heat of the land down by the water just puts in you, makes you part of it:The eagerness with which she was now going to Marmion, entering her real life there with Troy, told her enough - all the cotton in the world was not worth one moment of life!
Delta Wedding: Lingering Awhile Delta Wedding by Eudora Welty was chosen by members of On the Southern Literary Trail as its group read for November, 2015. Special thanks to Co-Moderator Diane "Miss Scarlett" for nominating this work   The time is coming soon to say goodbyeA time of sadness it will beBut, honey, listen to my parting sighAnd linger on awhile with meThe stars above you, yet linger awhileThey whisper I love you,oh linger awhileAnd when you have gone awayEvery hour seems like a dayI
Delta Wedding: Lingering Awhile
Delta Wedding by Eudora Welty was chosen by members of On the Southern Literary Trail as its group read for November, 2015.
Special thanks to Co-Moderator Diane "Miss Scarlett" for nominating this work
The time is coming soon to say goodbyeA time of sadness it will beBut, honey, listen to my parting sighAnd linger on awhile with meThe stars above you, yet linger awhileThey whisper I love you,oh linger awhileAnd when you have gone awayEvery hour seems like a dayI've something to tell youOh linger awhileThe stars above you, yet linger awhileThey whisper I love you, oh linger awhileAnd when you have gone awayEvery hour seems like a dayVincent Hall, Music; Harry Owens, Lyrics (1923)
Eudora Welty, Portrait, A Portrait Reader, July, 2015
>blockquote>Delta Wedding, F.
Work in Progress.
This novel is softer than a down cushion. More cozy than a pile of warm quilts. I'm not from a large family, so it was amusing to think what it would be like with a good dozen or more of your close family all under one roof. All generations back to great aunts! A lively and chaotic household with twice that many by the time of the wedding. Captures a time and place I could have barely imagined.
Delta Wedding was Eudora Welty’s first novel (with The Robber Bridegroom being more of a novella), following her success as a short story writer.
But Welty, even in this early work, manages to capture time, place, and family with beautiful and unrelenting detail; added to that, the work is crafted with tenderness towards the characters that populate it, making this a charming and inviting read.(This book was enough to convince me to go ahead and purchase a collection of all of Welty’s short stories – that alone should stand as recommendation enough)
The cover of this edition claims Delta Wedding is “a wonderfully entertaining portrait of an ebullient Southern family and an exquisitely woven celebration of Southern life” ...but that’s not the book I read.
In the Mississippi delta, on the banks of the Yazoo – “the river of death” – live the Fairchild family, whose children think they are born from a mysterious cotton sack carried on the back of an elderly former slave.
Symbolism is laid on with a trowel – so that you start to be suspicious of any artefact or event: the bird in the house, the lost brooch, the Yellow Dog train, the incident on the bridge.What do they mean?
Ah, the folly of youth.The second time around I became obsessed with Delta Wedding.
The weather and lyrical writing transported me to the Delta to spend time in the chaotic home of the Fairchild's.
Delta Wedding explores the family tensions and myths that continually create an ongoing history.
She did base the Fairchild's on the family of a beloved friend who was closeted for most of his life.While aging can be challenging, I am glad it has brought me the patience and life experiences to enjoy and appreciate the subtleties of Edora Welty and her wonderful descriptions that transport the ordinary to the sublime.
Yet many characters realize, or feel, at different moments, that for all the whirling bustle of the Fairchild life, there is a way in which their constant state of iridescent change is itself an unchanging landscapeRobbie put her hand up to her head a minute as she danced, against the whirl.
It's all happened afore." Welty situates her narrative at a day of transition - a wedding, after which Dabney Fairchild will leave her parents' home.
Change: and yet, Dabney and her new husband Troy will still live in a house owned by the Fairchild family, only a short ride away.
I love to read Eudora Welty in the summer when the cicada bugs are buzzing away and the heat is nearly enough to make you crazy!A big, loud Southern family gathers for a wedding in 1920's Mississippi.
Coming from a large, loud family myself - it was like being back in our living room when everyone was home - and everyone had their own agenda and ideas and everyone was talking to everyone and no one was really listening.
It was like going home for me.
Eudora Welty is supposed to be one of 20th Century America's great defining authors, but honestly, I just couldn't stick with this book.
Although the writing was beautiful, after two chapters, nothing of consequence had taken place.
I know enough about growing up as a child in a southern family that I don't need a blow by blow description of summer in the south; I would prefer a book with a plot.
Again, although the descriptions were almost perfectly reminiscent of summer in a sleepy southern locale, this book just wasn't for me.
The people you love  keep you the way you are." ~~The Yazoo Delta region of MississippiEudora Welty's classic novel, originally written in 1945, tells the story of a quintessential Mississippi Delta family in the 1920's.
There's also racism swimming just below the smooth talk of the white plantation dwellers which can be tough to stomach at times.
It is because people are mostly layers of violence and tenderness--wrapped like bulbs, she thought soberly; I don't know what makes them onions or hyacinths." Stuff I learned: A look at Mississippi Delta life

So beautifully written, I could feel the heat and humidity of the delta in her prose. I loved that it was somewhat rambling, in the sense that things happened that just happened and didn't resolve themselves into an ending. No real closure in certain parts of the story, but that's like life--things happen that don't have a beginning and ending or any explanation. I also loved that I didn't understand everything, or everybody's point of view. Very beautiful story.
This book certainly resonates with me on so many levels.
Delta Wedding is set in the 1923 South, pretty much marking the end of plantation days, the long term effects of Reconstruction taking it's toll.
The center of the tale is the occasion of a Fairchild daughter, Daphne, and her upcoming marriage to the plantation overseer.
For me the exquisite detailing of the daily interaction, the introduction of the automobile, the family size, the names, the surrounds, the seasonal changes, the food .
The size of the family.
Family names for me .
The early 20's marked the end of our family plantation.
Boy, it took me a really long time to read this book.
I had wanted to read something by Eudora Welty for a long long time and that is how long it took me to finish.
I found Welty's voice hard to understand (she had a very different way of expressing thought that I had to try again and again to hear) but quite interesting once I approched it like listening to someone with a strong and unfamiliar accent.
I understand this book was written at a time when racism was openly practiced and "accepted" as the norm, however, it hits hard, is sad and repulsive.
"Delta Wedding" (1945)recalls the comings and goings of a large, extended Fairchilds family as they prepare for the wedding of their daughter Dabney in September 1923.
Their eight-year old cousin, Laura McRaven, arrives from Jackson, a week before the big day.
She tries to blend in with her cousins and all the preparations, but she is still in mourning for her mother who had died the previous winter.
The delta landscape comes alive by her descriptions.
"Delta Wedding" feels racist in a very insidious way.
The portrayal of the servants and farm workers is unsettlingly spare, as if their lives are just backdrops to the privileged Fairchilds.
I love this passage: "Her nose in the banana skin as in the cup of a lily, she watched the Delta.
--Eudora WeltyI have never read a more beautiful description of the Mississippi Delta.
Welty has the most lovely turn of language.
Laura McRaven, a nine-year-old girl, is visiting her dead mother's family in the Mississippi Delta to attend Cousin Dabney's wedding.
The book is a portrait of a Southern family in the 1920s.
The plot is simple: the Fairchild family gathers for the wedding, and everyone brings their dreams, memories, grudges,and scandals.
well, i enjoyed the first third or so immensely. i thought of it as rather faulkner-esque. now i've reached the end, and honestly but painfully i must confess that i just think welty could have cut 50-75 pages. this piece would have made a better short story or novella. welty's short stories are just so much "tighter" than her novels. i enjoyed both  the robber bridegroom  and  the ponder heart , but the shorts are her true genius.
Abandoned - this book with what I suppose was intended to be detailed descriptions of the southern comfort type of life we all love put me into a coma. Maybe that's because I don't find the south to be all that comfortable.

I agree with others about the chaos, a sometimes confusing number of characters, and that nothing much happens except the wedding. But it's my South, in an earlier time than I experienced, but with many of the same kinds of occurrences of family life.
This book was not my favorite. You follow around a large family named the Fairchild's who live in the Mississippi Delta. I could see myself recommending this if they are into Southern Literature. However, for me it was very all over the place. There wasn't much direction. The writing was descriptive. This is something I look for in a book. Honestly, this one just didn't keep my attention. I picked it up for a second time. I wanted to give it another try, but this time wasn't much better.
The Fairchild family (both the living ones, and the ancestors who never really passed away, at least not in memory) is sprawling (spread over three or four plantation houses, and all the way into Memphis) and insular, where even those who have married into the family never feel fully part of it.
But that shallowness, instead of a weakness of the story, is actually fitting - these ARE shallow people, with little depth, clinging to a dying, privileged way of life.
A good book, and with the Delta vividly depicted, but one that didn’t fully engage me.
The scene lasts maybe a page and she says it shows some sort of extreme unsuitability, but the event is never referenced again and Shelley makes no further comments about Troy, in thought or otherwise.
One character is visited at her house to ask about something lost and the Fairchilds who visited treat her vaguely dramatic searching as malicious - the one example of personality is shunned and considered bad.In fact, I could think of only two other instances of things being treated as malicious or wrong in the book - the first is the mentally disabled preteen Maureen (who is referred to in rude terms) and the other is George's wife Robbie, who is again considered "unsuitable" but especially for leaving him when she feels hurt.
“Not her young life with her serene mother, with Battle, but her middle life—knowing all the Fairchilds better and seeing George single himself from them—had shown her how deep were the complexities of the everyday, of the family, what caves were in the mountains, what blocked chambers, and what crystal rivers that had not yet seen light.”I feel the influence of Woolf very strongly here (Welty wrote an excellent foreword to To the Lighthouse), but comparing this novel with Woolf, the power of such a dreamy and lyrical approach to a plot-less family drama is diminished.
“It was a soft day, brimming with the light of afternoon.
Here and there and far away the cotton wagons, of hand-painted green, stood up to their wheel tops in the white and were loaded with white, like cloud wagons.”
