https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23316532-desperate-characters
If there are a handful of works of literature that are deserving of their own college course -- maybe Anna Karenina or Invisible Man or Ulysses -- then one could structure an entire college education around this compact and easily-accessible novel.
It is a book as relevant today -- maybe more so -- than at at the height of the social protest and disorder of the late 1960s, when it takes place.
Not a book to be read for plot or diversion, but to be savored for its penetrating insights into marriage, friendship and civilization.I recognize that art reflects taste, but the sizable number of one-star reviews of this book leave me genuinely concerned for the future of literature.
oooh, i like this new cover. maybe i would have liked the book more if i'd read it with this cover.
If you’re familiar with Ferrante’s works, especially The Days of Abandonment, and then read this earlier novel, you’ll easily understand why Ferrante is drawn to it.
In response to a fan comparing her to Paula Fox, Ferrante answers, “Desperate Characters is a book that I love for its narrative intensity, but it has a richness of meaning that I feel unfortunately far from achieving myself.”Though neither of the married couple at the center of the book have abandoned each other, there’s the sense of the fragility of a marriage, even one of fifteen years, and the unknowingness (though there are clues) of the inner life of any human being.

“The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.” Henry David ThoreauSetting: Late 60s--Vietnam era: a time of social unrest, assassinations, civil rights movement, anti-Establishment upheaval that gave rise to the saying, "Don't trust anyone over 30."Scene: a renovated brownstone in Brooklyn, NY, on a street that is experiencing urban gentrification, but whose back overlooks a decaying slum.Main characters: Otto and Sophie Bentwood, a wealthy, highly-literate couple who have been married for 15 years, childless, both 40.
The reason Jonathan Franzen could write about this book in such superlatives is that he is himself very much a product of the "New Yorker" style from the 1970s onward.
A number of times reading "Desperate Characters," I wanted to put the book down, stand up, and applaud.
The same happens in Nabokov.Virtuosity at this level is a snake that bites its own tail, and a novel as perfected as "Desperate Characters" chews off little pieces of its own plausibility each time it indulges in another coruscating fireworks of outlandishly gorgeous, uncannily insightful, hyper-eloquent, impossibly well-judged description.
I picked up this book after a recent article listed the best taut and rather obscure books that you can read in a single sitting.
A marriage in trouble with a lot of symbolism that starts with a cat bite and the possibility of rabies.
When I have to overtax myself in trying to figure out what you're trying to say with metaphors and symbolism up the wazoo it's just not worth it.
I guess hipsters might love it but short book or not I was bored.
Simply put, this is a good piece of writing.Bravo to Jonathan Franzen for rediscovering Paula Fox"A perfect short novel. A few characters, a small stretch of time; setting and action confined- and yet, as in Tolstoy's The Death of Ivan Ilyich, everthing crucial within our souls bared." blurb on the backI enjoyed reading it.
4.5 stars. This is a brilliant short novel that in less than 200 pages really gets in your head and under your skin. I think a second reading is probably required to fully appreciate all the subtext. Can't wait to discuss this one with my book group.
Viene non tanto da una frase di Thoreau, "quella frase sulla quieta disperazione della vita della maggior parte degli uomini", quanto dal vizio di citarla di continuo negli ambienti descritti dal libro.
Non il capolavoro che dice Franzen, a tratti è irritante, ma considerato il genere, un buon libro.Un gatto randagio morde una signora della borghesia newyorkese anni 60 ed è come se tutto si ammalasse.
I Desperate Characters della Fox hanno questo tipo di postura mentale: artefatta, apparentemente quieta e composta; da salotto appunto o da portico di città di provincia.
In Desperate Characters Otto and Sophie Bentwood are well-to-do 40-somethings without children, living in the late 60s in a renovated brownstone on a slowly gentrifying Brooklyn street.
Nor can they escape unease and danger by vacationing at their Hamptons farmhouse, which they discover has been vandalized and ransacked, with a pile of excrement left in the living room.When a cat Sophie is feeding bites her and we spend the rest of the novel wondering if she has rabies, it serves as a metaphor both for larger societal dangers, and for the Bentwood marriage, whole but fractured, fraught with tension, anger, boredom, angst.
The title of this book comes from Thoreau's famous dictum that the 'mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation', and it is referenced in a fractious exchange between married couple Otto and Sophie and Otto's absent law partner, Charlie - who is the silent, but still important, voice in the conversation.
Throughout the book, Sophie tentatively explores her various pains - her unsuccessful affair, which seems to still haunt her; the cat's bite on her hand - but she shies away from exorcising them or dealing with them conclusively.
Neither Otto nor Sophie is happy with the status quo, but they seem to fear losing even that.
Though the book's portrait of the cracks in a foundering marriage between two Brooklyn hipsters (well, late 1960s hipsters) didn't resonate with me nearly quite as deeply as it obviously did with Franzen, it was pretty impressive.
Fox tells this story in a way that really gets under your skin, presenting her characters with a kind of merciless acuity.
The writing is economical (the book is under 200 pages) and brilliant - the rising sense of tension as we watch Fox's "desperate characters" unravel is extraordinary.
Franzen is right - this book is well worth your attention.
"The short novel tends to have a history of containing quietism on the one hand and hysteria on the other."You said it, Charlie Baxter!Although we will be reading Paula Fox's The Widow's Daughter for Charlie's class, I was not alerted to either his interest in Fox or the short novel when I set out to read Desperate Characters.
I don't mean funny, by the by, I mean that it is beset by hysteria.
The novel's focus is extremely narrow; it elapses over the course of one week, occupies two limited settings, and revolves around one central incident.
The sentences were a work of art, beautifully constructed with just the right amount of detail.I recognize that this novel was meant to be Symbolic and to offer lots of Great Themes.
But here is my issue with a lot of these lofty novels: I just don't get the dialogue.Are these people actually talking to each other?
My sense is, not really.
You have people questioning or commenting and responding, but it doesn't feel like they're addressing what the other one said.
Even a cretin like me recognizes that it's artistic and smart, and not entirely impenetrable.

Critically acclaimed when it was published in 1970 and then largely forgotten, this small, polished gem of a novel has been rediscovered. It follows a well-to-do, childless couple living in a renovated brownstone in not-yet-gentrified Brooklyn, beset by the intrusions of the neighborhood and by their own unhappiness, over the course of a weekend. Acutely observed, economically written, brilliantly conveys the fissures in society and the characters' mounting desperation. Worthy of the renewed attention if not of the exaltation bestowed by Jonathan Franzen in the introduction.
Uno strazio minimalista ante-litteram
But still, this book is crazy good.Fox gives the reader access to both Sophie and Otto Bentwood, the two main characters, via a third-person narration, though Sophie is focused on much more often.
It's only 160 pages long, and it does, I'm realizing, mostly because of the ending, have somewhat of the feel of a short story, but not while you're reading it.
Like any book could be called Desperate Characters.At times, the situation feels theatrical, like you're reading a play, but it doesn't feel like you're reading a play, it feels like you're reading a novel that seems theatrical.
This is a book I will read over and over again.
Paula Fox's "Desperate Characters" is a nearly perfect novel, one that I can see myself revisiting more than once in the coming years, and one that deserves a place alongside Richard Yates's "Revolutionary Road" in the pantheon of fiction brilliantly depicting suburban American marital malaise.
The book's last lines deserve a place alongside "The Great Gatsby"'s "So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past" among the great conclusions in American fiction.(My edition of "Desperate Characters" includes an introduction by Jonathan Lethem.
Its true what they say that this book is just like The Great Gatsby--if Fitzgerald simply told us exactly what all the characters represented and showed us absolutely nothing, and if he had been an awful writer and named his book something ugly and overt like "Rich, Superficial People." "Oh Gatsby, these pages in your books are uncut which shows that you never read the books and this shows that you are superficial.
It's true, Gatsby, everyone knows and no one really likes you, including Daisy, who will end up with her husband because that is just how rich, superficial people tend to be.
One of the most enjoyable reads I've ever experienced.
Fox has a way of writing that sort of takes my breath away.
Her observations, her descriptions, her attention to nuanced detail and sublime metaphor...
She really understands what it's like to be conflicted in an extremely deep and personal way.
I don't know if I've ever read a book with such real, honest and raw explanations of such complicated, almost indescribable emotions.
This one was haunting and vexing in all the right ways, and it will stay with me for a very long time.
I feel a a little stupid not liking this book. However if you needed an example of intellectual navel gazing this book would be a perfect example
En så förtätad och intensiv text! Ett mästerverk!!
Gem
Credo che abbia ragione Franzen nel dire che questo libro meriti una rilettura.
A hit in 1970 and out of print for many years since, the book is described as “a perfect short novel…a few characters, a small stretch of time; setting and action tightly confined.” This description reminded me of Ian McEwan’s On Chesil Beach, which is also a short but powerful novel that takes place over just a few days.Sophie and Otto are in fact “desperate characters.” From a broken partnership to a robbery, from failed friendships to unexpected health concerns, over the course of just a few days their lives are quickly falling apart.
A nearly perfectly written depiction of a genteel upper-middle class couple whose whole manner of life seems to be under siege.
Struggling under the oppressive weight of a loveless marriage, and husband Otto's collapsing work partnership, the Bentwood's clutch each other like drowning sailors -- each using the other to keep themselves afloat.
Somewhat reminiscent of L.J. Davis's satirical novel A Meaningful Life, though more brutal and less manic, Fox's novel is written in such a way that almost each sentence, each interaction, seems inevitable.
Paula Fox's Desperate Characters is a puzzling book featuring puzzling characters, major and minor.
Reading this novel, I, too, wore a baffled look; and upon reaching the end of Desperate Characters, I still looked baffled.
Did I not sense and/or comprehend Fox's characters' desperation because it is a "quiet" type or because it's inconstant or because it's not clearly depicted or because I'm obtuse?
Some of the characters have "desperate" moments, but weird is the word that provides a more accurate description of the characters and events in this novel.
I can appreciate the skillful writing, yet I find the book tedious.
I want to scream get a job!
Get a life!
Some examples: "How quickly the husk of adult life, its importance, was shattered by the thrust of what was, all at once, real and imperative an absurd." (p.112-113).and: "For God's sake, be a little uncertain!" (p.
113).The sense of increasing dread created by banal incidents is well portrayed, but I prefer books where there are at least one antagonist that you like.
I just want to give them all a smack to the head and tell them to get a grip!
