https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144214.When_a_Crocodile_Eats_the_Sun
Così si esprime la rivista Marie Claire, e in effetti condivido, papibanana ricorda in qualche modo il macabro folklore di certi dittatori africani.Harare, la capitale dello Zimbabwe.In queste pagine il racconto della storia di famiglia di Peter Godwin s’intreccia con quello della discesa all’inferno dello Zimbabwe, il suo paese di nascita, guidato sempre più giù da Mugabe, coccodrillo vorace.
Godwin invece identifica il coccodrillo in Mugabe, che sta mangiando il su paese.Un bel pezzo di storia poco nota in un paese che ancora non ho visto e un punto di vista originale e interessante (quello di un bianco nato in Africa, terra che ama oltre misura): mi sembra un buon mix e un buon risultato.
.For me, personally, I think this is the saddest book I have ever read.Written by a superbly evocative writer - Africa commentator and renowned journalist,Peter Godwin - it details the trials of people living in Zimbabwe between 1996 and 2003.
Both his parents were utterly committed to Zimbabwe, and refused to leave, even when life there got incredibly tough and threatening.With masterful finesse, Godwin peels back the veneer of civilization that so many of us take for granted, and exposes the brutal realities of life in a failed state.

This book will haunt you.
Despite purloining 8 million vendor pens at the vendor hall the previous day, I could not quickly locate a pen and paper to write down the title of his book.
Once home I ordered the book and sat it on my “to read” pile for about a month.I started reading “Crocodile” mid week.
I just didn’t have the time to keep reading.
Sometimes I wept because I was simply overwhelmed by all of it.Though Godwin writes this book in a fairly detached manner, it evoked a very strong emotional reaction in me.
It is the very worst of omens."The title of this memoir foreshadows the uproot of life for the Godwin family, during Zimbabwe's upheaval.
This problem formed the foundation for Zimbabwe's Civil War.Godwin's parents, white, African, immigrants, were caught in the middle of the storm that followed.
When an African has lived through the loss of a country's values, the lens out of which to view sometimes becomes blurred:"Most of us struggle in life to maintain the illusion of control, but in Africa that illusion is almost impossible to maintain.
The author, Peter Godwin, grew up as a white Zimbabwean, just like Alexandra Fuller, author of Don't Lets Go to the Dogs tonight.
But he never addresses the fact that Zimbabwe -- formerly Rhodesia, was a European colony before Mugabe, and suffered accordingly under white rule.
He never seems to question why there was so much opposition to the white settlers, who had the best farmland, and (his own parents included), black servants.
While I thouroughly enjoyed Godwin's gorgeous writing, I was frequently frustrated with his reluctance to address the oppression of the blacks, which continues to haunt the country.Godwin is the better writer, but I preferred Fuller's book.
I come from a pan African family, my brothers born in Zim, me in Malawi and my sister in Zambia ( Daddy was a soldier and a traveling man) I cried when you described your father's cremation.
My brother Rod who was in the BSAP during the last years of the civil war died in Gaborone in 2000.
He died ostensibly from complications from a botched appendicectomy but when I spoke to his surgeon a week after his death his words to me were "every time we took your brother to theatre to clean him , we removed a little more shrapnel, you might well say the war killed him but only 20 years later .
I was debating on whether to read this book, When a Crocodile Eats the Sun: A Memoir of Africa, or the author's book on his childhood growing up in Rhodesia Mukiwa: A White Boy in Africafirst.
It follows the events that were occurring in Zimbabwe on the given dates.
When I read a book about the political events of a country I want to know how these events play out in people's lives.
Both authors have shown us their family's secrets and how their lives as whites in Africa were shaped by political events.
A very powerful and haunting and heartbreaking memoir, a story both about the collapse of Zimbabwe into dictatorship and chaos since the late 1990s and about identity and belonging.Godwin writes as a white African, as a boy born in the old Rhodesia and raised during the Rhodesian Bush War--- what's now the Chimurenga War, the War of Liberation, in the new Zimbabwe.
Godwin writes about the end of a world--- not just white Rhodesia, but of the hopes raised at independence.
Godwin tries too hard to tacitly excuse himself and other whites who stayed on in Zimbabwe after majority rule.
For someone who attempts to represent Africa to a western audience, this seems rather bad form.Still, Godwin does a good job of chronicling Zimbabwe's demise under the increasingly autocratic rule of Robert Mugabe and the manifold challenges that everyday Zimbabweans face to survive.
Godwin even goes into detail about the repression and violence that Mugabe's regime uses to stay in power, but he's subtle -- too subtle -- about his criticism of it.
Even his stories about the opposition usually include the appearances of white Zimbaweans.
It gives an insider's view of Mugabe's reign of terror, and the utter chaos that has enveloped the country.Perhaps the most compelling part of the story is that of his parents, elderly in the late 90s and early 2000s.
Anyone who has cared for an aging loved one, and who feels the guilt of the child or grandchild who is no longer at home to care for them, is struck by this emotional theme in the story.
Add to this feeling the fact that his aging parents are in a conflict torn country with few resources, wild inflation, and rampant crime and intimidation, and you get a sense of the emotional and moral dilemma Godwin goes through.
In the early nineties I spent some time in Zimbabwe, and I have always wanted to go back.
Although there were hints of instability, mostly having to do with currency exchange, the people were well fed, well educated, and the country was beautiful.
I have been looking for an explanation, a reason for the death of that Zimbabwe.
4.5 stars.
Godwin does an excellent job of combining the personal and political in this gripping memoir.
He writes about caring for his aging parents who live in Zimbabwe, mostly long distance, as their country collapses around them.
On his visits, even a trip to the grocery store becomes treacherous.
He writes about learning that his father is Polish and Jewish, not English as he was always told - and discovers that most of his father's family died in the Holocaust.
He also vividly describes the destruction wrought by Mugabe's corrupt regime.
And Godwin does all this so skillfully and naturally.
The majority of the story takes place during the 1990's and 2000's during Robert Mugabe's presidency - which still continues today.
Not only does Crocodile Eats the Sun provide the reader with a starting off point to begin to understand Zimbabwae's tumultuous past, but we also learn about the ex-pats who chose to live and work in parts of Africa - mostly war veterans after WWII.The writing was so dramatically beautiful in many parts.
For example:"In Africa, you do not view death from the auditorium of life, as a spectator, but from the edge of the stage, waiting only for your cue.
Mukiwa is about Peter Godwin's childhood in Zimbabwe, and this book covers the death of his father there in the period from the late 90's to 2006.
Peter Godwin is a journalist and it shows in how the book is written.
Still, for some reason I couldn't read this book without my eyes tearing up.
Seriously, I read almost the entire book trying to blink back tears.
Anyone one who wants to understand what's happening in Zimbabwe now or is interested in the strange place some white Africans find themselves should read this book.
After reading this book, I am actually unsure of where I stand on the issue of land redistribution. I recognize the value white farmers added to Zimbabwe's economy, but on the other hand I am suspicious of, you know, colonialism. As I was reading, I keep thinking, where's this guy's punchline? Has this guy really written a book completely bashing land redistribution even in the face of the fact that 70% of arable land in Zimbabwe was owned by whites who made up less than 1% of the population?
Extremely well-written story about family, identity, and what we owe each other, set against the backdrop of Zimbabwe and Mugabe's dictatorship.
It is a microcosm historical reference to the effects of what good white Zimbabweans wanted for their nation among all persons and yet as the story unfolds the scenes recalled, written, and accounted for show nothing but retribution by the Mugabe political machine against the white citizens who provided medicine, farming techniques, and educational institutions.
The active voice in this memoir changes periodically from pride of family in a nostalgic form to a realistic and darkened sadness of what occurred in Zimbabwe following the years after the Civil War. Peter Godwin comes clean (in a manner of speaking) with familial issues of importance and discovery in a shocking sense.
Mugabe seems to want to get rid of whites in Zimbabwe and to make what was a country genuinely successful at developing a multi-racial society into an all black country; ruining the country's economy in the process.
Not only whites but middle class blacks are immigrating in droves.Godwin, a journalist, has lived in the UK and the US for years but loves his country and has made a specialty of getting jobs reporting from there.
Godwin's love of Zimbabwe and its people, black and white, is infectious.
His younger sister whose journalism gets her banned to North London where she broadcasts back to Zimbabwe.
Godwin's writing style is sensitive but mercifully not prone to histrionics.Nevertheless--and I realize the irony of this being written by a white American--it is hard to feel too sympathetic towards white Zimbabwean colonists and what sounds like an insular, patronizing, big-fish-in-a-small-pond culture of entitlement.
Seriously?Godwin also discovers partway into the book that his father was actually a Polish Jew who lost his mother and sister to the Nazis, instead of a Briton, and, although he doesn't say so explicitly, seems anxious to parallel this sad family history with the next generation's expulsion from Zimbabwe.
Gives one a very good idea of how traumatic and depressing it was for Peter's family and families like Peter's. How hopeless, despairing and often frightening the situation was and still is. How the world stands by does nothing. A very human story, a story of destiny, the struggles and courage of those brave souls in the face of utter despair and hopelessness. Well portrayed and an easy read.
author!
This is an excellent book, but it was quite humbling to read. The author, Peter Godwin, is an accomplished journalist who knows how to keep a reader's interest as he covers a very personal version of recent history in his native country of Zimbabwe. The humbling part for me was to realize just how little I know about Zimbabwe. The events that Godwin recounts begin in 1996 and go through 2004, all very recent history. And yet I knew nothing about the dramatic descent of this economically successf
This is an excellent book, but it was quite humbling to read.
​The author, Peter Godwin, is an accomplished journalist who knows how to keep a reader's interest as he covers a very personal version of recent history in his native country of Zimbabwe.
The humbling part for me was to realize just how little I know about Zimbabwe​​.
Such history can be a bit antiseptic if read through newspaper headlines, but Godwin brings it to life as he details the impact of the chaos on his aging parents who are committed to their adopted country.
A complete collision of incredible, gut-wrenching, heart-heavy movements and emotions in this little book.
seeing his country, economy, culture, family and friends disintegrate at the hands of evil, selfish power.
If you want an intimate account of how wrong government can get, read this.
If you are hungry for an account of the ex-pat life...
driven to make the world better, read this.
If you are interested in family saga and hidden histories (aka.
Nazi Poland), read this.
If you are a child watching your parents age painfully, read this.
Writing is refreshing and real with emotion.
Zimbabwe- I found this book very interesting. Honestly, I feel ashamed for saying this but I had no idea about the details of the land reform and the instability of the residents after Mugabe began ruling. Peter's account is about the visits he made to his parents while he was living in the US. I read this book very quickly because the Author did a great job in being detailed enough without going overboard into details that bogged it down. It's so hard to imagine what life is (was) like for the people in Zimbabwe.
I really liked this memoir....maybe 'enjoy' is not quite the right word for a description of a brutally difficult time, the setting being Zimbabwe and Robert Mugabi's reign of terror, as the country disintegrates under his rule. The story is an interesting one as the author discovers secrets about his family, and as he cares for his parents from another continent, while respecting their choice to stay. Well done.
I always hesitate to give five stars but for me, this is better than 4.5. I love stories set in Africa and this memoir does Africa so well. Touching while educational.
Worth the trip to Africa !!!
Emotional read I enjoyed this book. Memoirs aren’t my typical genre but I enjoyed learning about Mr. Godwin and his journey back to a relationship with his father and family.
Along the way, he learns the true story of his father's background and begins to understand why his parents refuse to leave, even as the world falls down around them.Godwin is very effective in his descriptions of what happened to white farmers and the middle class black Africans under Mugabe.
Godwin does not go into the pre-Mugabe history of Zimbabwe, other than a few facts needed to explain how the white settlers arrived in the country and the tribal relations present at that time.
