https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3802.The_Story_of_Holly_and_Ivy
A feel good story for this time of year! 🎅🏻
It centres on a little orphan girl, called Ivy, who is shunted off on Christmas Eve to the Infants’ Home, as there is nobody to look after her.
However, Ivy gets off and goes in hunt of the home that must belong to her.In the toyshop, a pretty doll called Holly is dressed for Christmas and longs for a little girl of her own to love her.
Mr Jones scoffs kindly at her preparations, but knows that she longs for a little girl of her own.
If you read one story to your children at Christmas which absolutely invokes the spirit of the season, this should be it.
This was a lovely short read about a doll needing a girl and a girl needing a home. A christmassy magical book about hopes and wishes. Lovely illustrations. We think the owl in the toyshop must have been inspiration for hoot from old bear.
It's nice but my favorite (and the one I read when I was seven) is in a chapter book binding with illustrations by Adrienne Adams.
As a kid reading this book, it captured for me the power of being wanted and loved.
Mr. Blossom and Peter were so busy they could hardly snatch a cup of tea."Don't you hate days like that?
So busy you can hardly snatch a cup of tea?
A good day is with a great book and a whole pot of tea!
What a sweet, beautiful story! All about the magic of wishing, and of love and belonging.The edition I read is quite old, 1950s, and has soft, old-fashioned illustrations by Adrienne Adams.
Another lovely piece of children's literature.It is a lovey story for the season of Christmas.
No regrets that I have read it out of season.
By now you would have guessed the story and the possible ending.
It is a story for children between 5 and 8.
It will make for a lovely bed time reading to small girls in the season of Christmas.The message of the book: Always wish for something good and wish for it with whole heart.
But the story will certainly succeed to instill positive attitudes in a person from his/her childhood.
A beautiful story about wishing ... which is really childlike-prayer, or the prayer of the innocent. Holly, a little doll, looking for a girl to love her and Ivy, an orphan girl looking for a home (and a doll of course too!) are inevitably brought together in this charming and timeless Christmas tale for all ages.
Every Christmas I check this out of the library to read to my kids. It is super sweet and heartwarming. I need to get my own darn copy!
Sweet enough to melt the heart of a curmudgeonly atheist. Much honor to Godden's magic way with words, and Barbara Cooney's pictures certainly helped the edition I read.
Although this is a 32 page long picture book, it’s text heavy, so it’s actually a fairly long story for a picture book.This is my new favorite Christmas story.
I’m not big on gooey holiday stories, or holiday stories in general, but I just loved this.I appreciated how the doll and the six year old girl are both important characters.This is a sweet story about wishing for and finding a loving home, wishing and finding for both doll and girl.The illustrations are just lovely.
Every detail is wonderful.
The Story of Holly and Ivy, illustrated by Adrienne Adams.I have always loved Rumer Godden's The Story of Holly and Ivy, a delightful little Christmas tale in which a lonely doll named Holly, and a lonelier orphan named Ivy, find one another and a home, all thanks to the magic of the season.
I think my favorite is the end-paper illustration, with the bare tree standing in the village square!All in all, The Story of Holly and Ivy is a sweet little holiday tale, one I would recommend to little girls who love doll stories, to young readers who enjoy magical Christmas adventures, or to Adrienne Adams fans.
A beautiful Christmas story about a doll who needs a person and an orphan who wants a doll.
I used to read this book to my first grade students each December before we went on winter break. I think I'm giving this story the highest compliment possible by saying that after the holidays, the girls and the boys begged me to reread this touching story to them again. Most years we read the story at least three times!It's an awesome story with delightful illustrations. I have owned a copy of this book for twenty-seven years, and I still read it every holiday season for my own pleasure.###################
When I saw this book was illustrated by Barbara Cooney, I was very excited to read it.
The font is small and the story is crammed into the 32 pages of the book.
I didn't really understand it - we read longer chapter books all of the time, but for some reason, they expect picture books to be short.
Still, we loved the story and the illustrations are just as wonderful as I expected them to be.
Overall, it's a delightful story to read aloud, although it's significantly longer than the typical picture book.
At our November Book Club Meeting, my friend, Kathy brought this book and recommended it as a great book to read to your children during the holiday season.
I borrowed it from her and read it to my two little girls.
It took us three nights to get through the whole book.
We loved every minute of it.
I'm sure this will be one of those books that will become and old favorite for us.
It will go in my stack of Christmas books that we read every year during the holiday season.
A truly heartwarming, charming, endearing, enchanting little classic!
I love this story. Beautiful Christmas tale of love, magic, and the power of hope. Add talking dolls, a snowstorm, and stunningly gorgeous illustrations, and you know you've got something special.
I love to read Christmas stories especially children's books . This was a very charming one. I borrowed it from the library but plan to buy my own copy.Recommended
Author: Rumer GoddenIllustrator: Christian BurminghamFirst Published: 1958Accompanied by Burmingham's lovely black and white pencil illustrations, Godden tells a Christmas story combining Hans Christian Andersen's The Little Match Girl and Margery Williams' The Velveteen Rabbit.
But with a happy ending.Switching focus between the beautiful doll, Holly, who needs a child to love and cuddle, and Ivy, a lost orphan looking for a home, we spend Christmas Eve in the cold, lonely, but making wishes for a better life.In the grand tradition of magic wishes, Ivy and Holly get their fondest dreams.A well-told story with little plot threads coming together, the mark of a good author.
This is my absolute favorite holiday book. I love the original edition illustrated by Adrienne Adams. It always brings me back to a late night snowstorm in my father's truck while my mother read the book to my brother and I to comfort us! It is a story of wishing and hope that an runaway orphaned girl, Ivy, and a lonely doll in a shop window, Holly, will be together in a happy home for Christmas. It also has an evil owl that spices up the book!
This book made me feel sad and happy at the same time; sad for being away from my family for the first time this coming Christmas but happy for reading this book.
I love how this book tells that every child deserves to have a perfect toy; a perfect toy from Santa AKA our parents, how everyone is busy decorating for their Christmas trees, and how Holly and Ivy found their perfect home on Christmas day.
This is absolutely a magical and wonderful Christmas story full of warmth and delight that will guarantee to tug at your heart strings.
The way the author arrange all the events to finally let the three main lonely characters - Ivy the little girl, Holly the doll and Mrs. Jones, who all wanted someone to love and somewhere to belong to - meet one another is absolutely masterly!!!
This story highlights the importance of wishing and kindness, and the illustration as well as the Christmas description in this book just made me want Christmas to come sooner :))
A very sweet Christmas story about a girl who needed a family, a doll who needed a girl, and a woman who ached to love a child. A Christmas miracle in the end!

It was ok. I liked the illustrations the most. The story was a bit weak and a little creepy. This girl pretty much runs away from an orphanage to find her non-existent grandmother in a town that she's not even sure really exists. So she's wandering around in the cold looking for a house with a tree and no children. And... the lady, her "grandmother", buys a tree and everything and then decides that they need children in the house. I mean... it's a loose story at best but the idea was in the right place.
This was my absolute favorite Christmas book when I was a little girl, yet somehow I managed to forget that it existed for the 10 years that I've been a mother. Tonight I read it to my children for the very first time, and it did not disappoint. Yes, it's sappy and far-fetched. I don't care. A beautiful doll, a lonely little girl, a magic but malevolent toy owl... I love it all.
great book! a book about wishing and a girl and a doll. ivy is an orphan who was sure she had a grandmother and goes to find one. i do not no whether the song the holly and the ivy is related to the story but when i hear the song i think of the book:)this is a great christmas story!
Originally published in a 1957 edition of Ladies Home Journal, this heartfelt Christmas story still charms little girls, and their grandmothers, today. Miracles are often interconnected wishes with willing feet and a receptive heart. A bit dated, but sweetly illustrated and nicely written.
I am giving this book 5 stars based on the memory of how much my children loved the story. We watched it on tv, never realizing there was an actual book. Would have loved to have had the book back then but the story and the pictures were followed very well in the show.
A cute story about wishing. Fun to see how everything was tied together in the end. Good discussion about how God works that way in our lives..krb 12/7/16
Nice addition to my collection of Christmas stories for children.
