https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759900.The_Killing_Hour
When it comes to writing thrillers, mysteries and crime novels, writer Lisa Gardner is the one to look out for.
Talk about on the edge of your seat and let's not forget the twists and turns in this book.
The Killing Hour is the fourth book in the Quincy & Rainie series and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I'm really looking forward to reading the remaining books in the series.
If you're looking for a fast paced thriller/mystery/suspense, then don't let this one pass you by, but be warned it may keep you up all night as you won't be able to put it down.
Picked this one up for just 99p in the Kindle Autumn Sale.I've read Gardner before and she's one of those guaranteed good reads. Everything is just enough for an afternoon away from real life. The right amount of cleverness in the plot, a dash of romance, some truly despicable killers, a real pace, and a fulfilling conclusion. I know this author is going to do right by me. So when i'm having a bad week (yes i know it's only Tuesday), I know where to turn.
I wasn’t really into the story or characters. But one thing I will give the author credit for is the fact that the forensic science and the environment of the settings was very well researched.
It is listed as part of the Quincy & Rainie series (NOTE: Lisa Gardner calls this "the FBI Profiler series") but actually the star of the book is Pierce Quincy's daughter, Kimberly.
The first victim is killed outright and is left with clues that point to where the second victim can be found.
The second victim can be found and saved if the police can figure out the clues left with the first victim.
This time the killer has taken four girls.
Can Kimberly and team save any of the girls?
I know most people liked this book, but I truly hated it. I'm a fan of Lisa Gardner...gave Love You More 5 stars!I found this book boring; I found myself skipping paragraphs at the end just to get it finished. It wasn't at all suspenseful; I felt like I was reading a detailing of "facts" and I just did not feel any chemistry between Mac and Kimberly.I expect my review will not be a popular one. I really tried to like it but just couldn't!
What can you say about Lisa Gardner other than - she is just fantastic! A 2004 book and the 4th in the Quincy & Rainie series! A very good read..... 'nuf said!
If the law inforcement agencies can read the clues quickly enough, they MAY find the second girl alive.GBI (Georgia Bureau of Investigation) Special Agent Mac McCormack has been profiling the killer since the very beginning, with no end in sight.
Now, with a heatwave descending, the game begins again.
New Agent Kimberley Quincy, while doing part of her training course, stumbles across the body of a young girl...she is in the grounds of the Bureau's training facility at Quantico.
A serial killer is taking 2 girls at a time, leaving one dead in the open with clues on or in her body on how to find the second girl.
The killer then goes absent for a few years and when he comes back on the scene this time, he takes 4 girls.
The first girl is found on Quantico's FBI Academy training ground by Kimberly Quincy a new recruit whom we met in the previous book.
Other than those bits, the clues, race, and obstacles thrown in their paths to find the other 3 girls is very captivating and edge of seat thrill.2 thumbs up and 4 stars
Best of the series yet. A serial killer takes two girls at a time, leaves one dead in the open to be found with clues on her body to lead to the second girl. He has been silent for a few years and then together with GBI special agent Mac McCormack, Kimberly tries to beat the clock and find the victim before times runs out. Once again Gardner delivers a great story, full of suspense, a complicated plot line and a little romance thrown in for fun.
I read lots of serial killer novels, but few have hooked me the way The Killing Hour did, from the very first page.
Mac McCormack, special agent of Georgia's Bureau of Investigations, literally runs into FBI trainee Kimberly Quincy.
Mac is on the trail of a cold case serial killer, whom he believes responsible for the murder that Kimberly discovered while out on her fitness workout.
The FBI is less than thrilled about a body dumped on their Virginia campus, about Mac's presence, and about having one of their students suddenly involved.
This killer leaves one girl dead as a map for investigators to find the other (possibly still alive and suffering) victim.
The clock is a-ticking while investigators attempt to locate her.Kimberly is a tortured young woman currently attending the FBI academy when the book begins.
The only captivating thing about this book was the latest victim's struggle to survive.
The other characters (and there were too many for me to remember) just didn't grab me as they were all people I'd read about numerous times in books like these.
I am probably a bit late to the game with this author, however better late than never!
This book came as recommendation and I can see why.
It's a tight, well planned and well structured thriller/crime story.
It commences by following Kimberly through her FBI training programme where she is suddenly thrust into an unresolved serial killer case.
Girls are being kidnapped in twos and the death of one has clues to the whereabouts of the other.
There is also effective use of the perspective of the killer that is so often missed by authors of the genre.
The killer uses his victims as a game; the first victim is used as a pawn to locate the 2nd victim.
This killer places his victims in such remote locations that is impossible to find unless you use the clues he leaves behind.
The plot is good but the information from biologists, geologists, botanists, and many other specialties hinders the story, dragging it with background overload.
With all the data included, she takes the time to research her information and the plots are full of suspense with chapters ending with cliffhangers.
There is no set formula and each novel has a different main character.The killer in The Killing Hour loves the heat.
It is up to the FBI to use the first dead girl to locate the second girl and hopefully save her in time.Kimberly Quincy is the main character in the 4th novel in the series.
We know who Kimberly is (Quincy's daughter from the previous novels), but now we get to see her in action as a FBI rookie.
I also enjoyed that father Quincy and Rainie were in this novel and we got to see what they were up to.
Another really good story from Lisa Gardner. She just can't write a bad book. This one has Quincy and Rainie, Quincy's daughter, Kimberly and Mac and a very nasty villain. The story starts slow but very quickly speeds up. Highly recommended as r all of LG's books!
Theme 2:Always make sure you have something to protect yourself if you're under attack.6.
Trees were dark, and far from help..." (Gardner 52).
Kimberly is being chased by a stranger around the dark area of the marine base and since she is still in training, she doesn't have a weapon to defend herself.
Kimberly felt the need to carry her own knife that she wasn't permitted to carry on the marine base because she didn't have anything to protect herself.
7. These quotes helped show what the situation was really like for Kimberly.
It shows what the life of an FBI officer in training is really like.
Beautiful FBI trainee Kimberly Quincy who defies her superiors by working a serial case while she is still in training, runs into ruggedly handsome Mac McCormick, a special agent of the GBI who has been working the serial case for years.
Did I mention Kimberly is beautiful and Mac is good looking?
Mac invites Kimberly to join forces and body parts (they hump each other while working the case - of course).
I’d like to see a story where the “rogue agent trainee” is either a male or “not beautiful.” Wonder if old Mac would go out on a limb for them?
We have Kimberly there training with the FBI and Quincy and Rainie are contracted to help to find this killer.
Anything more I could tell you would ruin the story, and I would hate to do that because it is a must read for anyone who loves thriller/suspense genre books.
I love Ms. Gardner and much thanks to a fellow Goodreads friend who pointed me in her direction because I don't think I ever would have discovered this talented author on my own!Happy reading!
Este libro está mal escrito, mal traducido o mal editado, pero me ha costado mucho acabarlo viendo tantos errores sintácticos. Y ese uso y abuso de "pues" constamente. Un horror en ese sentido. La historia no es original, aunque entretiene.
Excellent page turner!!!! Glad I got back into this series.
Great book! Very suspenseful and focused on the crimes more than the character's budding romance. Definitely worth the read!
There is a killer on the loose, he has been doing this for some time, first in GA, and then in Virginia, only this time, he has changed the pattern, and he is doing it on home ground.
A young FBI cadet finds a body, and although she has always wanted to be an Agent, she drops out to help solve the case with a cop she fulls in love with.
Along the way there is infighting with the FBI, the young cadets father gets involved, and how many more will die, while this savage killer plays his sick game of catch me if you can?
I liked this. I mean it's hella disturbing and all, but well written with good strong characters. i enjoyed the different dynamics: Kimberly and her father, Kimberly and Mac, everything going on with Quincy and Rainie. I was very saddened and disturbed by the murders of course, but appreciated the pace of the story, there was nothing wasted, no extra fluff. I will read more from this author.
This has probably been one of my favorites yet. Gardner keeps me on my toes like no other author has yet!
Excellent storyline that definitely kept me guessing. Love the new relationship between Kimberly and Mac!
This one took me a bit longer to get into than the previous ones because we spent a good 30% or so in the POVs of a lot of people I didn't know all that well, other than Kimberly.
I liked getting to know Kimberly better, but I wasn't prepared or ready yet for her and people surrounding her to carry a lot of the story.
Once Quincy and Rainie became part of the story, I was much more engaged and started to connect to Kimberly and Mac. The last 3/4 of the book was pretty intense and hard to put down.
I could go a lifetime without reading another passage about a bug moving beneath a character's skin and this is the second novel I've read in a row with this detail.In Stephen King's The Wind Through the Keyhole a young boy witnesses a spider emerge from the skin of a helpful mutant; he tries to control his gag reflex (as did I) when the mutant casually picks out the spider's eggs from the weeping sore on his chest.
In The Killing Hour, it's maggots who move around beneath the woman's flesh.
She ends up teaming up with GBI Special Agent Mac who is in town after following a lead on his now almost-cold case from two years before where, over the course of two summers, a man abducted and murdered pairs of girls during a heatwave, leaving one body as a map with relevant clues as to the location of the other girl, who has been stranded in a remote and unsafe area with only a gallon of water to survive.
As the temperature climbs, Kimberly and Mac -- along with Quincy and Rainie -- have to track down three missing girls after piecing together the clues left on the body dumped in the FBI's very own backyard.This, to me, had probably one of the more horrific life and death situations because it was so simple and so brutal and so..
Each time, he takes two girls.
The police are never in time; the bodies always found months later in remote and dangerous places.
Two girls disappear and the clock is ticking.
Rookie FBI agent Kimberly Quincy stumbles across the first body in the grounds of the FBI training facility at Quantico.
This time he's raising the stakes; he wants the FBI's finest to come out and play..." (From Amazon)The fourth novel in the Quincy and Rainie series has Kimberly Quincy as the main character and her father and his girlfriend as secondary characters.
I don't mind Kimberly but I like Rainie much better.
The Killing Hour has Kimberly at the center – she is training to become an FBI agent when she stumbles on to a dead body and finds out that there is a serial killer on the loose.
Gardner is really great at switching the narrative.
The story is in third person, but its focus switches from Kimberly’s to Mac’s to the killer’s to some of the intended victims’.The killer always abducts two girls – one is killed immediately.
Unfortunately, the second victim is usually not found until it’s too late – perhaps she has died of exposure or snake bite or, in one case, falling from a cliff.This is a good, quick read.
