https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21362.Seize_the_Night
Good series! a decent storyline with good narrative and also good plot twists & turns (paperback!)
I proceeded to read it in one day (staying up into the wee hours) and then spent the next day hunting down "Fear Nothing".I loved everything about this book.
I remember sitting there re-reading the scene in the egg room over and over-it was unlike anything I had ever imagined.
I love the combination of horror, sci-fi, and humor in this story.I outgrew Koontz a while ago (not to say he isn't good, just that I began to be able to predict where he was going) but this book, and its predecessor remain two of my all time favorites.
Koontzland - October 2017 group read - completed A great Dean Koontz book, but "Fear Nothing" (Moonlight Bay #1) in the series was a little easier to read.Chris Snow's XP disability continues (Xeroderma Pigmentosum - skin cancer to bright lights) & experienced "Rhesus" monkey attacks. He lives with his dog Orson & Sasha Goodall (girlfriend). His friend Bobby Halloway is nearby.Chris & Bobby need to find Lilly Wing's (x-girlfriend) missing son - Jimmy(5). The kidnap trail leads to a
A great Dean Koontz book, but "Fear Nothing" (Moonlight Bay #1) in the series was a little easier to read.Chris Snow's XP disability continues (Xeroderma Pigmentosum - skin cancer to bright lights) & experienced "Rhesus" monkey attacks.
The kidnap trail leads to a "military" Fort Wyvern.Chris' mom, Jane (Dept.
of Defense) died in the "Dead Town" outside the NOW empty Fort Wyvern - where 50,000 people once lived.
His best friend (Bobby Halloway - shot), girlfriend (Sasha Cohan) & friends (Doggie, Roosevelt, Mungojerrie) track the missing -or- kidnapping of Orson (his dog) & children (Jimmy Wing, Stuart twins & Wendy Dulcinea).
But there characters are a little too selfless, to the point where they do not seem real.
I have a hard time believing in characters who never ever even get slightly angry at anyone other than the bad guys; and also that you have 5 people (not to mention the dog and the cat who are also humanlike characters in this book), and not one of them ever has any thoughts or doubts about risking their lives to help strangers.
But now, somewhere in the night, children are disappearing.When he sets out to find the missing five-year-old son of a former sweetheart, Christopher Snow believes that the lost children are still alive.
To keep those secrets, extremely violent and powerful forces are willing to conceal even the most heinous crimes.Never before in Dean Koontz's phenomenal writing career has he created a character quite like Christopher Snow: a creation so complex, so fascinating that the author has felt compelled to return to him.
Those who meet him for the first time in Seize the Night will soon join millions of others whose imaginations have been touched by this unique character and the extraordinary, eerie world of Moonlight Bay.
Favorite Passages:We are the most alive and the closest to the meaning of our existence when we are most vulnerable, when experience has humbled us and has cured the arrogance which, like a form of deafness, prevents us from hearing the lessons that this world teaches.The claustrophobic darkness closed around me again, as soft as Death's hooded robe and with pockets almost as deep.The side of a nose.
Superstition is the dark side of wonder.The cry was eerie but not entirely alien; worse, it was a disturbing hybrid of the familiar and the unknown."Idiot," I said."Asshole," Bobby said."I wasn't talking to you.""I'm the only one here.""I was calling myself and idiot.
This is the second installment of the Moonlight Bay series by Dean Koontz.
Meaning throughout his entire life, he only goes out during the night hours and can know the night like someone who lives by day can never understand.This story starts out with children being taken from their beds and Chris trying to find the children.
Over the course of the next twenty-four hours Chris and his friends see things which they never knew possible all while looking for the kids.
A book which is really hard to put down once it has begun and doesn't let up on intensity the entire 443 pages.
"Fortune favors the bold. Of course, so does Death." This followup to Fear Nothing continues Chris Snow's story as he and his friends confront the horrors of a changing world. It wasn't quite as good as its predecessor for me, but I did really enjoy it, and of course the writing is beautiful. The best thing about this novel was that we got a lot more of Bobby and a lot more of Bobby and Chris. Bromances are my favorite and this one was great. There closeness comes through really well here, buil
This followup to Fear Nothing continues Chris Snow's story as he and his friends confront the horrors of a changing world.
It wasn't quite as good as its predecessor for me, but I did really enjoy it, and of course the writing is beautiful.
The best thing about this novel was that we got a lot more of Bobby and a lot more of Bobby and Chris.
And like any good Koontz novel, there is excellent humor.
Chris is no different.
Hopefully it comes eventually, but I wasn't completely disatisfied with how this one ended.
Another solid read from Koontz.
This is a great book. A continuation of Fear Nothing. Dean Koontz does explain everything that happened in Fear Nothing that is relevant to this story. Having read the first book these parts were obviously redundant. Surprises throughout the book. A real page turner. I am so bummed that I finished it.

https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...A great Dean Koontz book, but "Fear Nothing" (Moonlight Bay #1) in the series was a little easier to read.Chris Snow's XP disability continues (Xeroderma Pigmentosum - skin cancer to bright lights) & experienced "Rhesus" monkey attacks.
His friend Bobby Halloway is nearby.Chris & Bobby need to find Lilly Wing's (x-girlfriend) missing son - Jimmy(5).
of Defense) died in the "Dead Town" outside the NOW empty Fort Wyvern - where 50,000 people once lived.
His best friend (Bobby Halloway - shot), girlfriend (Sasha Cohan) & friends (Doggie, Roosevelt, Mungojerrie) track the missing -or- kidnapping of Orson (his dog) & children (Jimmy Wing, Stuart twins & Wendy Dulcinea).
I had a hard time getting into this one (probably because I've been busy working on other things this past week), but once I got about halfway through, the pace really picked up. The ending sort of boggled my mind. But I suppose that should be expected. :)
Maybe pure insanity would be a good place to start.
During the search, Chris touches a face in the dark, Orson goes missing, and time travel is possible...wait..WHAT?!Chris and Bobby stumble into the Egg Room, which can go straight to hell, and realize that maybe the genetic experiments aren't really so bad after all.
At this point, I'm really missing the angry monkeys because they are a much better alternative to a Red planet filled with nightmares.So, by now, Bobby and Chris decide that play time is over and the big guns are needed.
It was like Koontz was working out material for his stand-up act.A small child is kidnapped in the middle of the night and the main character, having once been in love with the mother, tells her not to call the cops, he'll find the child.
He trails someone to an abandoned military base where he shoots at the guy with his trusty Glock 9mm that he carries with him.
Vicious, genetically-altered, man-attacking Rhesus monkeys; a product of a secret government program based on the main character's dead mother's work in theoretical genetics.This is when I quit and picked a better book to read from off my shelf.
When I started reading this book I thought it was going to be one that I finished only because I never put down a book once I've started it.
The first 100 pages or so were so full of monologue and rambling tangents that I had a hard time getting into the story, or even deciphering what the story was.
Very slowly the pace of the story picked up and the rambling tangents (most of them) began to make sense.
Once the story got going, though, WOW!
I haven't flipped pages that fast or sat at my kitchen table oblivious to the rest of the world for that long in a long time.
A great book! Christopher Snow and Dean Koontz rock!
Koontz constantly holds the reader's hand, afraid that when there might be some confusion they might have to actually use their brains and will understand that what they're reading is a product of, uh, low quality.“Very broly of you.” Broly is surfer lingo for brotherly.NO WAY I COULD HAVE UNDERSTOOD THAT ON MY OWN, THANKS!There is absolutely no moral ambiguity altogether.
“We are the most alive and closest to the meaning of existence when we are most vulnerable, when experience has humbled us and has cured the arrogance which, like a form of deafness, prevents us from hearing the lessons that this world teaches.”
In the opening chapter, Chris and his genetically enhanced canine friend, Orson, (again, I reiterate – I want a dog like Orson!!!) meet with a friend of Chris’s whose son had just been kidnapped.
Following Orson’s sense of smell, the trail leads them to the supposed-to-be-abandoned-but-not Fort Wyvern, birthplace of the many strange happenings, including the retrovirus created by Chris’s mother which is causing people to become something other than human.
While waiting for Bobby in the housing section of Fort Wyvern, Chris encounters a troop of genetically enhanced, evil Rhesus monkeys.
Inside the fort, the group is faced directly with the abductor, who is also head of the project Mystery Train.
There is not really a need to read fear nothing first unless you want to as Dean Koontz explains everything that happened in the first book when the reader needs to know perfectly, just as he explains all crazy science stuff in a way even i could understand.The whole book was amazing but i will let Dean Koontz himself sum up what the book really was like in these quotes from the book.
In this case, the circumstances all revolve around occult happenings in and around Fort Wyvern, the abandoned military base that the main character, Christopher Snow, frequents.
Over the course of the book, we find out why the children were taken and how it connects up with a serial killer and the strange past of Fort Wyvern.
The book gets exciting right out of the gate, with dark wanderings in old buildings, troupes of killer monkeys, strange deaths, and the a fight in the night.
It finally builds to a climax that really stands up there with the best I have read from Koontz.
He was really reaching here, going all over the place, as if he took a dozen separate ideas he'd once jotted down and mashed them together for a full novel.
Now that means there are some great ideas in here, and some not so great.
I wouldn't be surprised to learn that as he was writing this, his interests or focus switched tracks four or five times.
This falls to the bottom of Kootnz's list, and I wouldn't be surprised if he felt the same after looking back at it over time.As always, though, I'll keep reading his books.
I heard it was supposed to be the second of a trilogy - never fancied reading the third (if there ever was one) if this effort was anything to go by.
Following on from Fear Nothing (which I thought was quite good) this follows Christopher Snow, XP sufferer and night-time wanderer, trying to solve the mystery of some missing children, along with his laid-back surfer-dude pal who talks and acts as though his batteries are running down.
The story descended into such dreary time-consuming nonsense towards the end that I convinced myself it couldn't get any worse.....except that Koontz then executed perhaps the most dire denouement of all time.
Sorry Mr. Koontz. I usually like your books but this one I just could not get into. I got 20% in gave up. Not enough interested me to want to read on or know more about the characters. I frankly got annoyed of reading Christopher talk over & over about himself.
Ah, Snowman is back to save the day!
I like this series and I like Chris, Bobby, Orson and Sasha.
Orson is more than a dog due to the "experiment" that Chris' mother did and he has many nice human characteristics which makes him more lovable and sweet.
Chris calls him his brother...So in this book children are going missing and Chris and his friends need to find them.
Of course he doesn't or the book would end there.
The characters meet themselves and are able to save a character's life.
I love Dean Koontz's writing. You must be willing to suspend your disbelief because he takes you where your imagination never went before, but like all his books, the premise of the craziness is grounded in science. It could happen! Yikes! I always learn something new to ponder. His characters are vivid, and the good guys are lovable; the bad guys are evil! He has a gift for writing clever and witty dialogue.
Have had a Dean Koonz binge just lately. I don't know what it is but I devour them, bones and all.
For some reason, in October I want to read books with some standing in the 'horror' or 'humor' genres.
The story ends well with a new threat on the literal horizon setting up the long-delayed third novel "Ride the Storm".I wouldn't mind the series continuing beyond the planned trilogy.
I found Koontz's more recognizable 'Odd Thomas' series to lose my interest beyond the first novel but still after two books I want more stories of the darkness dwelling Chris Snow and his dog Orson.
It's a Dean Koontz story so there has to be a dog included.
Not as good as the first book in the trilogy hopefully Dean will finish this trilogy soon.
A thrilling and breath-taking book with a fast pace with the utmost mysterious story i have read so far. It made me want to trace back the "Fear nothing" of Koontz which is the prequel of this book. Agh...
