https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69622.Valediction
Although not Spenser’s best, this is still very good, and—for all true Spenser fans—an essential episode in the development of Susan Silverman and Spenser’s relationship.The adventure itself is relatively simple—at least on the surface.
Susan has moved to San Francisco, and tells Spenser she met another man she cares about.
Spenser is deeply wounded—half-numb, bitter and filled with a well of anger just below the surface.
How that anger affects his way of dealing with this case is one of the intriguing features of the novel.This is an enjoyable entertainment, and an essential for all Spenser fans.
Like Spenser, Parker too was a fish out of water.
Had I not known this bit of information before reading this novel (thank you Kemper) I might have thought Parker was off his game in this one because of the way Hawk seems cartoonish.
Thus, he made Spenser worried about his life.
Not because of the angst of Spenser, but because I knew that Parker was actually going through this as he wrote this book.
Put simply: VALEDICTION is one of the most human books I have ever read.
But Spenser isn’t so sure that he wants to go on without Susan, and that’s a dangerous mindset for a guy in his line of work, especially when connections between the cult and organized crime pop up.Spenser makes himself go through the motions of work and life, even dating a woman and being shocked to realize that he can enjoy seeing someone else, but he’s too invested in his idealized version of pure love with Susan to be truly happy with anything less than her.
He also realizes that the weight of that was probably too much for Susan to bear, and it’s something he’s going to have to get over it to ever get her back.This is a landmark in the series, and it sets up the next one  A Catskill Eagle  which is the pivotal book in the Spenser saga.
It is basically a cult case where someone might have joined against their will.First off, I have to say that I might be a little biased with this book.
I applaud the author for having his character respond this way to his situation.
Plus, there is Hawk and a book with him is automatically going to be well liked.I thought this was one of the better Spenser books not for the actual mystery but what it means for the character.
I am really interested in what this means for Spenser in the following novels.
The best Spenser novel I have read so far. The case had me guessing though out. Although I did realize the person behind it right before the reveal but was still a good mystery. The one thing I didn't care for was the drama between Spenser and Susan Silverman. Her reasons for leaving seemed flimsy and nonsensical. But was fascinated by the parallels between their relationship drama and the main plot. And of course Hawk is still a bad ass.
Not enough was said about that person’s motives and actions.I’m reading the series because I like the author’s witty lines, but they have been less frequent in later books.
There was one good line in this book.
The guy says “Can he guard me alone?” Spenser says “Hawk could guard Yugoslavia alone.”You don’t need to read the prior books, but it was handy to have read book 8 before this (A Savage Place).
Although Spenser is suffering, he dates and has sex with Linda.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #11 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
My hopes were running high at the very beginning of this one. It looked like Susan was going to be out of Spenser's life.:) Grrrr, maybe not. This case for Spenser had a real high body count, and for a PI on an earlier case, who couldn't shoot a guy.....he does in this one, more than once to save his butt. Parker's writing, Spenser's wit and the sharp dressed Hawk, to watch his back makes this series a fun read.
This was my favorite of the Spenser novels thus far. It had everything! The difficulty in Spenser's relationship with Susan is letting us know them both better. The core mystery is interesting. Hawk is present and violent. Paul makes a non-trivial reappearance. A story like this makes me regret having been away a while.
Can someone please explain to me what Spenser sees in Susan? I just don't get it. Seriously.
It is years since I read Spenser so I've started re-reading them in order on Kindle.
Susan has left Spenser for a job and a new man in San Francisco and he's feeling the pain, so to distract him Paul suggests he helps his employer find his missing girlfriend who has been kidnapped by a cult.
The parallels between the two men's reactions is interesting and reveals more about Spenser's character.
Hawk has a more prominent role in this book as Spenser's support - both mentally and physically - and it is good to see their "bromance" develop.
I will need to take a break from the Susan/Spenser drama. She is getting on my nerves staying in San Francisco and he is getting on my nerves not being able to function efficiently in his P.I. work.I found it odd the way this story went, a church, a reverend, a dancer, a dancer.
If Parker’s musings on the nature of love and the difficulties of committed monogamy occasionally veered too far in the direction of gooey New Age philosophizing, overall the focus on his characters’ inner lives elevated Valediction above the standard detective novel.Parker made good use of Spenser’s other established relationships (best friend Hawk, surrogate son Paul, his police allies) and even paid off what had seemed like nothing more than a throwaway interaction with a neighbor from a previous installment.
Resulted in the book being about 100 pages longer then the previous Spenser novels but a twist at the end makes it fun.
I also enjoyed the disruption to the relationship Spenser has with Susan.
Based on reviews most don't like this but I think it shows that Spenser goes through things we all go through.
She is constantly in Spenser's thoughts just like that someone special is for us when the relationship first ends.What I didn't like about the book.
The second thing I didn't particularly like about the book was the muddled ending.
I liked the twist but how about clearing it all up at the end.
Paul Giacomin, Spenser's non-genetic very-nearly-adopted son, steers a case Spenser's way to distract the p.i. from his sorrow and dread.
When the inevitable push-back comes, a number of people find out what it means to clash with a despairing Spenser who might not care for life without his love.
There's a scene in which Spenser is stalked by a half dozen thugs that is one of the great scenes in the series.
The case is resolved interestingly, and the series is propelled toward the novel ("A Catskill Eagle") in which Spenser (and Hawk) respond to a distress call from Susan.
Susan gets her Ph.D. from Harvard in clinical psychology, takes a job in San Francisco, tells Spenser she needs distance, and won't even give the poor man her address.
Suicide-by-bad-guy-he-encounters during this case is a real concern.
He tries to date, but just ends up talking about Susan throughout his date (red flag for any woman).
In the midst of this personal crisis, Spenser has a case.
Probably not the best time to be parsing through a case given his unstable mindset and the dangers he encounters, but in the end, this book has a nice little twist.
this was one of the best Spenser books I've read so far.
I could relate to what he was going through with Susan even though I wanted him to tell her to kiss off.
you could tell Parker was pulling heavily from real life experience on this one.
the way susan keeps spenser dangling is the real story here, the mystery is not nearly as good.
having read the jesse stone book night passage I can see that a lot of it came from this part of his life too, the writing is very similar.I can't wait to read A catskills eagle.
✭✭✭✭½
And especially when combined with the previous book Ceremony, something important is happening to Parker in real life, and thus to Spenser.I kept reading the pain inside Spenser from Susan's absence and uncertainties, and I remember those feelings from 30 years ago for me.
Has had his thoughts begin each day with Susan, what she would be doing in her distant life each day at this time.So I did a bit of research and found this:Parker and his wife, Joan, separated at one point but then came to an unusual arrangement.
the breakup/separation of Spenser and Susan mirrored Parker's real life.
The book opens with Susan, Spenser's girlfriend of ten plus years, getting her PhD after spending time away in Washington.
Not acceptable behavior after dating for more than ten years.In the meantime, Spenser is hired by Tommy Banks to find his girlfriend, Sherry, who was apparently kidnapped by a cult church.
Spenser finds Sherry but she says she is happy being with the church and wants to be left alone.
Paul, who we first met in Autumn (the seventh in the series), is back but there isn't a lot of explanation about who he is and how he is connected to Spenser.I liked the writing style ...
Did you know that essays have been written about Parker's use of wide margins, large fonts, overly spaced words, to thicken the work and make a book?
It saddened me to realize he was writing this book at the start of his career, and we the survivors know the outcome.
A ton of the later mannerisms are missing from this book, and I was grateful.
Every so often, Parker would have the woman be the "bad guy" as is the case with this book.
It was startling to read this and realize how mannered and clichéd his later writing had become.
This was a different Spenser in this book.
She meets a married guy, but won’t marry him when he offers to divorce, because she loves Spenser and won’t ever leave him!
She, Sherry Spellman, leaves Tommy for Bullard Winston, leader of the “Bullies” Church of Redemption.
He runs a money/ drug money laundering thru his Church.
Spell man cons Spenser into believing that she just can’t live with “controlling” Tommy.
Spenser lets her stay in the Church.
Spenser believes, only to find out that she set him up and is actually the ringleader herself with Winston.
All the things you want in a Parker mystery is here and it’s helped by the ongoing speed bumps of Spenser’s relationship to Susan and Parker’s unwillingness to give it a happy ending is one of the strengths of this book as he explores relationships and finding happiness on your own before you can find happiness with a partner.The story starts out simply enough: Spenser is approached to find a dancer who was kidnaped by a religious cult.
But in typical Parker fashion the story is not that simple as the mob is pulled in and a heroin trade that this religious cult might be helping transport in the country.
This is not a bad book if you enjoy reading a story as the main character continues his fall through some type of midlife crisis.
He becomes so bad at his job he misses several clues (or so he says) that would have lead to a different conclusion and possibly less bullets needing removed.The story would have been better if that during down times he had not spent so much time drinking and moping.
There are lots of other books that do the whole moping depressing thing better.
He only has 30 more books to snap out of it.
Ah Spenser. A man lost without his love. Not doing too much of anything besides moping around, Paul asks if Spenser can help out his dance teacher. And when Spenser meets the teacher and finds that his student/girlfriend was abducted by a religious cult he's on board. But getting to the girl might be harder than it seems. And while trying to see her, he stumbles onto something much larger. And more dangerous. And even that isn't what it seems. Oh and thank god for Hawk. Again.
Robert Parker is the Godfather of Mysteries and I always find his books witty and entertaining. Spencer does not disappoint, he rescued a fair damsel who did not want/need to be rescued. But why is she surrounded by Thugs?
Somebody help me. I’m enjoying these.
Good read. Different. Loved the ending.
A quick read. No read depth to the book.
Apart from the annoying love issue not a bad story overall.
A little slowThe plot itself wasn't very entertaining. I do like that Spenser has such an outstanding moral character. Hawk is dedicated was Ted. Just not one of my faves.
