https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321982.What_to_Say_When_You_Talk_to_Yourself
"After examining the philosophies, the theories, and the practiced methods of influencing human behavior, I was shocked to learn the simplicity of that one small fact: You will become what you think about most; your success or failure in anything, large or small, will depend on your programming - what you accept from others, and what you say when you talk to yourself.
It is no longer a success theory; it is a simple but powerful, fact.
The brain simply believes what you tell it most.
And what you tell it about you, it will create.
I love this book. It helped change my live for the better. It says, that the average 18 year old hears, "no," "you can't do it," "your not good enough," and the like 148,000 times. I was especially rotten as a youth, I must have heard it 300,000 time. I came to believe the negative talk. This book helped me break bad habits instilled by others.I look forward to rereading it every year.
Instead of feeding your mind with negative words and ideas feed your brain with positive affirmations and ideas.
Take out the old furniture and throw it away, which is the negative thinking and replace it with new furniture, which is positive thinking.
No matter what in your life you want to change you must feed yourself positive affirmations and be specific with the words multiple times a day, atleast 10 - 20 times a day if not more.
You begin to recognize the negativity from the outside and notice how you handle it with a positive response.
This was a really helpful book for me when I was going through a painful divorce. Most of us don't realize what the running commentary in our heads is saying. This book encourages you to pay attention, sort out the negatives, and modify the way you talk to yourself. We can be sabotaging ourselves without even knowing it. I highly recommend it for an eye-opening, potentially life-altering experience.
He spends the first four chapters firstly illustrating his journey, and then explaining the purposes and methods of self help books.
However, there is no continuity to the writing; some sentences are completely out of place.
It is fair to say that the book was a rather insubstantial piece of work.
A novel so far from academic standards I struggle to believe the author has a Phd. Though if I learned one thing that is the majority of University graduates have the capacity to write something to this standard and make money!
Don't read the book just know this - saying positive things to yourself is good.
The human brain is incredibly powerful personal computer controller and that each word that you input into your mind would determine your attitude on how you decide to do in life. Whether it is mediocre or magnificence.
i read a brief of about 33 pages only but really i liked this book.Some quotations that i loved in t
The meat of What to Say When You Talk to Yourself was that we need to consistently be our number one fan. This can be accomplished by regularly saying nice things to yourself through Self Talk phrases, of which the author provides many. I’ll also incorporate the plan to have out loud conversations with myself to talk through situations and emotions. The first 8 chapters or so were unnecessary...He spent a lot of time on other methods and why they don’t work.
I read this book many moons ago and I must agree that negative self talk is an issue that we all must overcome. What I didn't like about the book was that at many points from chapter to chapter the book felt like a sales pitch to purchase the tape series. Then you can really overcome your negative self talk.... Good luck, but I'd rather keep my duckets in my pocket rather than forking them over to this clever promoter.
Negative self talk is something we all deal with. This is the first self help book that I've picked up. The book teaches common sense, but I've never given "You are what you say" much thought until this book was recommended to me. This book is already affecting the way I think, and I'm not even half way through. I watch out for negative self talk or thoughts and correct myself.
This was required reading in a college class of mine and I loved it. It is not a big book and it can be hard to get through but I have learned a lot from this book.
A gift for those that use the negative chatter as an excuse to stay where they are for the rest of their lives. Just don't be as blunt as this review. People take offensive when they undermine their thought processes. A good self-help book to guide you with cognitive tools to overcome negative talk. "Repetition is a convincing argument". I would re-read.
Great for anyone looking to manage themselves more effectively through a very practical yet unorthodox (for those socially conditioned) method. Shad's book is still relevant today although many examples are boring and repeated endlessly, the concepts and thinking behind them is solid. Quick read, and something more people should practice as there are too many people that complain and let negative voices run their internal operating systems.
Great read for all. It's amazing the amount of negative talk we engage in on a regular basis. I am already seeing a difference in the way I talk to myself in a positive way. There is great power in the subconscious mind.
Terrible! Most of this book, and I mean 99% of it, is filler. What a waste of time. I give it 0 stars.
This is very powerful. Words come to life so choosing your words literally means choosing your world.
This is a very easy to read self-help book. The good thing is that it's also easy to put into practice. The author goes through how our behaviours are shaped through our attitudes and thoughts. He provides several strategies to use positive self-talk to change your brain's 'programming'. Since finishing the book I've caught myself several times doing negative self-talk when something has gone wrong and I've been able to re-phrase the message to myself in a much more positive way. I think this book would be fantastic for anyone with anxiety or depression.
The science is fascinating, the ideas have merit, but I became a bit angered over being told I’m not allowed to express anything negative. I don’t want to dwell in negativity but I’m also human and not a liar. In any event, I’ll still check out some self-talk streams bc I’m willing to try it out!
I think this book was something I was personally looking for. I always believed that deep down we have great potential. This book made me realize that the way our minds are programmed usually limit the way we manifest ourselves in the world. With the proper way of talking to ourselves, we can unlock the dormant potential and become our best selves.I would recommend this to most of my friends because I observed the amount of negative self-talk most of them offer themselves and that hinder their potential and I want to be surrounded by better versions of my friends.
Easy language
One more wonderful book completed, Author gave practical example to apply self-talk in your day to day life
This book changed my life!!
The concept of Self-Talk is a must for everyone to know and observe.
We need to practice new self-talk based on what we want in our life.
Read this book!
Self-talk is something similar to affirmations.
Both consciously and unconsciously we affirm a lot of things about ourselves which form as beliefs, attitudes and dominate our thinking which intern dictates our life.The distilled information present in this book is very very important for everyone.
Read this book and change our self-talks you tell to yourself and others.
This definitely changes your life if practiced well.
You are what you tell yourself. Be kind and positive. Great tool for reprogramming your thoughts and life.
The potency of words has been making it's self known to me over the past few months after having read "How To Write A Sentence", by Stanley Fish.
In it, he says that sentences are little worlds, and by arranging symbols of meaning, we can create our own micro universe.
Anyway, I think it is worth taking the time to read this little self-help guide, even if it's just to be able to say that you have.

The books is both simple and simplistic. Its message is clear: my self-help book is better than yours! Take for instance chapter 3 "What Works And What Doesn't". He makes a big list on what these books are about, i.e. believe in yourself, etc. then later he provides the "better" solution: we need to re-programme our minds. Really? Yes, really. So, the book feels like a nice recipe for you, dear reader, if you are having difficulty falling asleep; you will fall asleep right quick!
We have so much more power than we have imagined!Dr Shad is right on point with how incredibly important our self talk is. We become what we believe so it's critical for us to learn to monitor and teach ourselves, our families and friends positive self talk to change our lives from mundane to magical..
A wonderful little book that helps shift some of the negative beliefs that we inherit from our doubtless well-meaning parents, teachers, peers et al.This little gem is quick and easy to read and will resonate with every human being on the planet. If you want to change your mindset, then this is a great place to start!
Most likely going to be one of the most influential book I've ever read. Programming (conditioning) -> Beliefs -> Attitude -> Feelings -> Actions -> ResultsBe careful what you say about yourself, because you will act consistently to it. "As a man thinketh, so is he. You will become what you think about most."
