https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14469.Selected_Stories
I've just got a little bit left to finish, but I just love O. Henry's stories. I read a couple of his short stories in high school, and was hooked. It is just positively amazing what he can cover/accomplish in just a few pages! Also how true what he has to say, and quite humorously too! Wish I could write like that! AND I have way too many exclamation points in this review...
His ability to define character via humor is a revelation that will never pale beside more current work and it is what continues to resonate once a story is complete.“Jeff Peters has been engaged in as many schemes for making money as there are recipes for cooking rice in Charleston, D.C.” (290).
By switching to first person narration, O.Henry allows Jeff Peters to tell his tale: “Fake?
From beyond the lone light source in the ceiling of her attic room, Miss Leeson identifies the North Star – which she names Billy Jackson.
Henry's work and Barnes and Noble provided the fodder.
Henry" is a sort of Best Of collection of 45 short stories by O.
The tip of the ice berg compared to his tiresome output over a short period of time.O. Henry is considered by many to be the greatest American short story writer.
Henry is able to realistically provide a point of view from all angles.
To read this is to read the manuel on story telling.I did try to read this book straight through at first.
This collection also is a must read for any aspiring writer.
Most of the time, short story collections are "meh" for me.
O. Henry writes about average people, and many critics call him "formulaic." Well, he is formulaic, let's face it.
Henry's strongest assets in writing these stories is his use of comedy, which lends itself to the twists.
Henry is the most hilarious author I've read, but there were times when I definitely laughed out loud.
So, if you're looking for a great collection of short stories, I recommend going out and picking up a copy of this!
I READ FEW OF O HENRY'S SHORT STORIES IN MY HIGH SCHOOL.
HIS STORIES INSPIRED ME A LOT.
I WAS SWEPT OFF MY FEET BY AFTER TWENTY YEARS, GIFT OF THE MAGI AND LAST LEAF THOSE WERE NOTHING BUT THE SLICES OF LIFE.
THE O HENRY AWARD IS THE MOST PRESTIGIOUS AWARD FOR SHORT FICTION.
I BELIEVE HIS WIT IN THE TWISTS AND ENDINGS OF THE STORY DESERVES IT.
SO I SEARCHED THROUGH INTERNET AND READ ABOUT 15 OF HIS FAMOUS STORIES AND EVERYONE TURNED OUT TO BE A MASTERPIECE.
MY FAVORITE OF HIS SHORT STORIES I HAVE READ SO FAR ARE,1.
THE GIFT OF MAGI2.
3 saoRât mong moi đơi đươc đên ngay sach cua O Henry đươc xuât ban ơ Viêt Nam vơi ban dich mươt ma, biên tâp ky lương, xưng đang vơi gia tri cua quyên sach. 3 sao la danh cho ban tiêng Viêt nay, con 2 sao nưa minh tam gơi ngân hang vây, hy vong sơm co ngay đươc rut ra :p
3 saoRất mong mỏi đợi được đến ngày sách của O Henry được xuất bản ở Việt Nam với bản dịch mượt mà, biên tập kỹ lưỡng, xứng đáng với giá trị của quyển sách. 3 sao là dành cho bản tiếng Việt này, còn 2 sao nữa mình tạm gởi ngân hàng vậy, hy vọng sớm có ngày được rút ra :p
Loving these short stories! The unexpected endings are great, and his humor is right up my alley. Just enjoying some light reading in the midst of life...
O. Henry is a great delight. He transported me to his world of joy and wonderful surprises.
Immensely moved, Talbot accepts three hundred dollars from Hargraves—disguised in blackface as “Uncle Mose.” Hargraves becomes immensely successful in New York City’s theater scene for his performances in “A Magnolia Calhoun.” He writes Lydia a note in which he tells her of his success—and, in the story’s twist ending, reveals that it was he, as Uncle Mose, who gave the Talbots the money they needed to pay their bills.
He enters and—surprise, surprise—he turns out to be the man who rescued Cecilia from drowning on the ferry.“Conscience in Art”The narrator relates the story of Jeff Peters and Andy Tucker, two men who swindle a Pittsburg millionaire out of two thousand five hundred dollars.
When reading a short story collection, especially a collection by only one author, I always face the problem of fatigue.
Becoming so familiar with the writer's style that the stories blur together and it gets.
yeah, maybe a little boring and a bit of a chore to finish.There were times that I did feel that when reading this collection.
more often then that were the times when I just had to read one more, and one more, and one more, and once more till real life intervened.It's the twist that gets you.
Henry style memorable and distinct.
Funny and clever.
These aren't just gripping yarns, though; they're wonderful period pieces and cut to the heart of an atmosphere.
Much of the setting and the characters may be larger than life, but the impression is wonderful, especially the elements that repeat over stories: the dizzying freedom of the open prairie during last days of the real "West"; the casual fierce loyalty of the cowboys who lived there; the plucky resourcefulness of hardworking shopgirls and flippant con men alike; the vibrant, interconnected multiplicity of old New York.
Yes, it's romanticized, but I seem to be sentimental about this kind of thing.
O. Henry is famous for his surprise endings (which i guess makes them a little less surprising) as well as his light humor. while that makes for entertaining reading, i wouldn't call it frivolous. more gentle than his contemporary Mark Twain, but with greater realism, his stories deal with various classes of New York society, sometimes in the same story, and always make me think or feel something i didn't expect to.
I searched by ibn but this isn't the edition I have.We'll see how many of these I have time to read before it must be returned.Some of these are excellent, others less so. There were times that the description of even a minor character ran on to such an extent that I lost track of the finer points being set up in the plot.
I seem to adore O. Henry, though the stories that are set in the West do seem to be a bit thin and are constantly repeating the same plots....but! I do love the allusions, the language, and the "surprise" endings.
Henry never fails to catch you with his trick ending. But this master of the short story may have also contributed to its evolution away from the formulaic trick ending to today's slice of life, open-ended, much ados about nothing stories.
Before Roald Dahl and Sudha Murthy and R K Narayan, O Henry was my favorite author of short stories! 'The Last Leaf' 'After 20 years' 'The Count and the Wedding Guest' are a few of my favorites.!
"The Last Leaf," "The Gift of the Magi," "The Ransom of the Red Chief," and "A Retrieved Reformation" are his best short stories.
I will never get tired of re-reading these stories. Shortly after purchasing it on a discount rack at a college I was visiting, I realized what a wonderful discovery I had made! <3 O. Henry
There are some really funny, sad, inspiring, and weird stories in here. I love O. Henry's style. He is great!
"მსოფლიოს რჩეულ მოთხრობებში" ხომ დაიბეჭდა და აქ უფრო მეტია და ბევრი. თან სხვა თარგმანია. განსაკუთრებუად მომეწონა "წითელკანიანთა ბელადის გამოსყიდვა" და "მოგვების ძღვენი"
Đọc truyện này mình chỉ thấy sự đời nó rẽ ngang rẽ dọc quá, có khi nào sau này phạm tội lại gặp được tình yêu như mối tình cảnh sát-học sinh nọ không biết.- Ngôi giáo đường với cối xay nước: Câu chuyện làm mình ấn tượng nhất hơn cả sự hi sinh của Behrman, đó là tình cha con máu mủ, là kí ức tươi đẹp của một đứa con gái mà chỉ có bài hát kết tinh của tình yêu mới đánh thức được.
Mình từng thử đọc bản Tiếng Anh nhưng đọc không nổi, vốn từ và hiểu biết của mình không đủ để hiểu cặn kẽ từng góc cạnh ý nghĩa trong truyện ngắn của O.
Henry.
May sao kiếm được bản dịch của Ngô Vĩnh Viễn, tuy không đối chiếu bản dịch và bản gốc nên không biết độ chính xác đạt bao nhiêu % nhưng bản này đọc rất xuôi kèm chú giải tường tận, bao gồm cả những chỗ khó dịch và khi tác giả chơi chữ.
Ý nghĩa truyện ngắn của O.
Henry thì khỏi phải bàn cãi rồi.
O. Henry was a new writer to me. I picked this up because it was one on the few English books in the library at the Chinese University where I work. Some of the short stories are better than others. I liked the way he used adjectives although sometimes it seemed overdone and I also enjoyed how he'd sometimes comment on both written and spoken cliches, which are still cliches in today's world. O.Henry's stories always had a twist however sometimes it was easy to guess how he'd end the story.
Delightful stories (the majority at least), with that famous Henry twist ending. But something about them almost prevented me from giving it four stars. There is something about them that just does not reach that level of true pathos. Sometimes I feel that the tales really a bit too much on that twist at the end. But I generally enjoyed this collection.
Enjoyable read, but the endings became quite predictable. Written at the turn of the last century the style was likely much more novel back then.
Wonderful stories!!!
Some stories I really enjoyed them, but others not. Generally, worth reading it.
The version I read was 401 pages long. This book at the end of every short story I wanted to read an entire book to see what the characters did after the story ended. Very good book. My favorite story was The Last Leaf.
O. Henry was possibly the greatest short story writer ever. He, other than Roald Dahl, was the master of the plot twist.
That being said, the Ransom of Red Chief still lives in my memory as a story that made me laugh harder than anything I had ever read, by grade 7.
"Thanks Mom and Dad, for your patience."Having just re-read Saki, whom I love, and seeing O.Henry's name floating about - combined with finding myself in a 2nd hand book store (are they going the way of the dodo?) - I picked up this volume of selected short stories.Given the prolific output of the author, I am not surprised that some methods and themes were well-mined but the fact he could revisit not dissimilar set-ups and give them a bit of a twist IS impressive.
