https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27276262-lily-and-the-octopus
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best fiction AND debut author categories 2016! i added this book to my to-read list back when i heard about it, but it was one of those wobbly to-read intentions - the plan was to wait for it to be released and check out the reviews on here before committing one way or another. in general, books whose blurbs gush about how "moving" the story is and gleefully relate how many tissues you will need to get through it are not a selling point for me. books t
i can identify where the sad beats are, but they unfortunately don't work on me, and since so many of these supposedly emotionally draining books are about dogs, i was concerned that this would be just one more schmaltzy, emotionally manipulative addition to the dog p.o.v. movement* where everyone has a good cry but me.
but this book is not *just* a tearjerker, and it mostly stays on the good side of cutesy.
"We're going on different adventures?"oh my god awwwwwwwmaggie is my most treasured thing.
*when everyone knows that the ONLY good book that has a dog p.o.v. is Heroic Measures.
(I added some pics of me and my dog)This book is about Lily and Ted, they are best friends.
I loved how Ted would talk about thinking of Lily when he was away from her.
I loved reading about Ted and Lily having game night, talking about men and other funny stuff.
We set it up for the next morning and I was to just watch over Dakota to make sure he wasn't in any pain through the one night.
Thanks to the Ted and Lily, I just might start slowing writing a book about me and Dakota.
People tell me they don't like audio, they tried audio a long time ago but it didn't work for them or they ask me what book is good on audio since I listen to so many of them.
I'm here to tell you that THIS BOOK is 10 Star audio!
Michael Urie makes this story come to life!So why 4 Stars instead of 5?
Now some Goodreads friends of mine along my journey with this novel said they won't read this if Lily is going to die.
I'm here to tell you it's OK to read this.
Like Brad Pitt hot!
Rather than spending too long on emotional manipulation, the book focuses on Ted Flask - a lonely, middle-aged gay man who loves no one as much as his dog.
I also didn't love Ted's constant repetition about the octopus and how he "looks it in the eye" and actually talks to it (it's not a spoiler to say what the octopus is, but just in case, I have tagged it: (view spoiler)[it's a tumor (hide spoiler)]).
In an otherwise sensitive and emotionally smart novel, it felt a little jarring.At its heart, this book is about a relationship, a friendship filled with love.
This book does not remotely resemble "The Art of Racing in the Rain", aside from the thin comparisons that a dog and people interact, and there are teary moments.
"Lily and the Octopus" is the story of a very self-absorbed man, his love life, his loneliness and his sick dachshund.
Having been so detached from the rest of the book, I was almost astonished to find myself with tears poring down my cheeks in Lily's final moments.I expected something really good.
"Lily and the Octopus" is not that book, and the comparison totally ticked me off.
I cried at the end --- and I love Lily, and his best friend, Ted!
......Meredith is Ted's sister.
At her 'own' wedding...Meredith had been watching Ted, her brother, -- keeping a 'sister's -love- eye on him.
After the wedding ceremony in San Francisco, Meredith, Franklin, ( her husband), Jeffrey, ( Ted's boyfriend), and Ted, all retire to the Top of the Mark, a rooftop bar across California Street from their hotel.
Continuing the conversation in the bar....Meredith asks Ted....
Right from the start - I was smiling over 'debates' that Ted tells us he has with Lily.
Then on the first page you learn that Lily, the dachshund is 12 years old, 84 in people years.
So we have a 300 page novel about a 12 year old dog with cancer, how did I think it was going to end?
Especially when I cried the first time on page 26?Yes, I knew it would end badly, because dogs don't live as long as we do, and because we give our hearts to our pets, and they return that love a thousand times without asking for anything in return.
I don't really know how to rate this novel.Spoilerish review.I'm sure many will love this novel.
It was readable but I became tired of the forty-two year old Ted obsessing and waxing lyrically about his dachshund, Lily.
Lily is twelve years old and at the end of her life.
The majority of the novel is about Ted either reminiscing about Lily as a puppy, or talking about their mundane, tedious life or he's agonising over what to do about Lily's 'octopus'.
There is conversation going on between Ted and Lily.
And between Ted and the Octopus.
He is lonely and isolated but his best friend Lily, a 12y old dachshund makes his life worth living.
He and Lily share everything, good times and bad, pizza and monopoly nights, icecream and movies.
When Ted discovers that Lily has an 'octopus' growing on her head he realises the time he has left with Lily may be cut all too short.This is one for dog lovers and anyone who has had to part with an aging furry friend.
Ted reminisces about choosing Lily as a puppy and seeing the wonders of the world through her eyes and remembers their lives together.
Consequently when the Octopus of the title started to take over this book I started to enjoy it less.Anyway the book begins brilliantly and I enjoyed the little anecdotes about Lily as a pup and about Ted himself.
That was okay to start with as I could see it was Ted's way of dealing with the issue.
My problems began when he insisted that everyone else should see it as an octopus too and then we got into really deep waters when Ted started his fight against it.
Three stars for Lily and her beautiful life.
No stars for the octopus.
It’s a unique, funny, charming, quirky, defensive, obsessive, and problematic story, just like the breed itself.
A fictional tail about a man named Ted and his beloved weiner dog Lily, but since the author really had a dog by that name, no doubt a lot of truth throughout the pages and a loving tribute to her.If you’re not a dog lover, or take the Caesar Milan (all due respect) or the detached—It’s just a dog (no due respect) approach to our four-legged friends, perhaps not for you.
I had one just like it named Liesl.
It’s a beautiful work of literary fiction about the nature of life and love told with a lot of humor and sadness.
This is definitely one of those novels that is colored by what the reader brings to the table.What “Lily and the Octopus” gave me was the memory of the pain of loss, but most importantly, the memory of love and it all being worth it.
Animals and humans alike, they’re worth it in the end.I can’t recommend it enough.This unbiased review is based upon a copy of the book won through the Goodreads First Reads giveaway program.
The protagonist waxes poetic about the octopus when I want to know what the vet said, what Ted is going to DO about that octopus.
And it certainly didn't need self-absorbed Ted, musing over the octopus and talking about Lily, to think, “She failed to protect us.That is when the octopus came.She is the one at fault.She is the one to blame.”I know my opinion is in the minority about this book, so if it appeals, read it.
Not even to Lilly's own veterinarian.Throughout the book, we learn about how Ted came to choose Lily (the runt of the litter!), and the many adventures (real and imagined) they've had together throughout the years.The one thing that struck me throughout this story was how authentic Ted's voice was.
But this book is so much more than your typical loved-and-lost dog story .
It's about self-discovery, unconditional love, and a life well-lived.To be fair, I realize have a different perspective than most on the loss of an old dog such as Lily.
Omg! Sooooo good. I have not ugly cried in a book in a really long time. My full review will be up on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
Once you had seen it, you couldn't really unsee it—even as you remained impressed with its ability to hide so perfectly in plain sight.ABOUT THIS BOOK: Combining the emotional depth of The Art of Racing in the Rain with the magical spirit of The Life of Pi, Lily and the Octopus is an epic adventure of the heart.When you sit down with Lily and the Octopus, you will be taken on an unforgettable ride.The magic of this novel is in the read, and we don’t want to spoil it by giving away too many details.
Where he had been for those three days remains a mystery; no one sighted him, and he's not talking!Anyway, back to Lily and the Octopus.
4★ BEGIN! THE! STORY! OF! ME!   [NetGalley requested no quoting from preview copy, but I just had to – sorry.]The “me” of this command is Lily, a small, elderly (87 in people years, we’re told) Dachsund, Ted’s relentlessly loving, entertaining companion. Ted’s love for Lily is just as relentless. Even if it hurts. Even when it hurts. Lily was the runt of her litter, and she chose Ted. He says he couldn’t tell all the brothers and sisters apart “tumbling over one another like noodles in a pot of
[NetGalley requested no quoting from preview copy, but I just had to – sorry.]The “me” of this command is Lily, a small, elderly (87 in people years, we’re told) Dachsund, Ted’s relentlessly loving, entertaining companion.
Lily was the runt of her litter, and she chose Ted. He says he couldn’t tell all the brothers and sisters apart “tumbling over one another like noodles in a pot of boiling water.
But I also had a long-haired Dachsund who, like Lily, slept under the covers so it seemed she would suffocate.
"The very best thing about dogs is how they just know when you need them most, and they'll drop everything that they're doing to sit with you a while."It's true.
Though my dog is only two years and a half old right now, I already get myself ready that that day will come.
This book is just for everyone who owns dog or those who love to read sweet relationship between human and animal.
I really love the conversation between Ted and her daschund, Lily.
I really love this book, but to be honest I don't really like the beginning.
Beautifully written, funny, sad, charming, and, for anybody who's loved a dog, so achingly familiar it's hard to contain.
The book, a love story, requires a surrender to imagination.
I recommend diving, swimming, and letting the waters do with you what they may.Postscript: I've had three dogs in my adulthood.Here's Maya, a dachshund mix.
She is with me now and so much in this book applies to her and me.
There is no way I can adequately express my love for my dogs, and the species in general.
But Steven Rowley does it for all of us who are blessed by these angels in dog suits.
Lily is a sweet twelve-year-old dachshund whose owner Ted suddenly notices has a large lump on her head.
Ted can't face calling it a lump or a tumor so he thinks of it as an octopus instead.
So Ted decides to wage war with this 'octopus' who is threatening his precious dog's life and this is where a touch of magical realism enters the story as Ted devises ways to make the octopus leave her alone...while putting off the inevitable decision.As Ted wages this useless battle, he learns a lot about himself and love and opening up to others.
There is no easy road to travel, though Flask does not simply let this beat him, even if the 'octopus' does overtake his life before pulling Lily closer towards the brink.
A story that even those without an attachment to a pet ought to read at some point in their lives, Rowley stuns readers with his brashness and honest presentation, injecting humour at those times where the tension seems to be too much.
However, as the reader will discover, Ted also uses this moniker to rid his life of its presence, at least for a time.
The bond between humans and animals is a very special one; those of us that are fortunate enough to have had this experience will undoubtedly relate to this book in that very special way.
So to all my animal friends, I say give this book a go -- that said, (view spoiler)[ I finished it Friday evening before bed, and it took most of the day on Saturday for the puffiness from crying to go away.
(hide spoiler)]I have quite a few sticky tabs coming out of this book....and one quote in particular is Ted's "Thanksgiving in June" tribute to Lily: "...
you made me laugh fiercely, you made me cry hysterically, you made me smile like a crazy person and ponder what is important in this life.
You made me fall in love with you (or rather Ted) and with Lily.
I have had 3 great loves of my life and they were all dogs.
This book is about Ted and his dog Lily, who he adopts and falls madly in love with when he is 29.
Mr. Rowley gives Lily a voice of her own and she "speaks" to Ted, in ALL!
as is Steven Rowley and his beloved Lily.
It's a journey you'll want to go on willingly, especially after you hear Lilys's opinions on pizza, monopoly, yes the game, getting wet; and well, just lots of things.
One of my favorite lines: "My therapist's office is painted the color of unsalted butter." I just love this.Ted got Lily, an adorable dachshund, twelve years ago as a puppy.
Yes, Lily, his DOG.
Ted meets Lily, a dachshund, when she is just twelve weeks old.
Ted falls deeply in love with Lily and they form a bond that's deeper than most friendships.
So when Ted experiences the breakup of a long-term relationship, he relies heavily on his love for Lily to get him through.
He dedicates his time to game nights, movie nights and long discussions with his dog.Beneath the surface of this story, is a deeper one.
It's about learning to let go and dealing with different levels of loss.
That's when I knew that, Lily and the Octopus, was a five star read.
BOOK!Lily and the Octopus was a story about Ted, his dog named Lily and their adventures and battle with the octopus.
The novel was told in Ted's POV, with Lily occasionally sharing her own insights through the course of the story.
Told in endearing, whimsical and witty prose which captured the raw honesty of human beings' deep-seated feelings (especially of death), human-dog relationship and connection through years of companionship, there was warmth, sunshine, rain and rainbow in this book's pages.
Maybe his mental instability caused that, but there was just something about their relationship that I couldn’t relate to, no matter how hard I tried.Lily and the Octopus is a wonderfully written novel filled with metaphors and beautiful symbolism.
Ted is dealing with depression and heartbreak and all of this somehow wraps up into a witty novel about a man and his dog.Lily and the Octopus was lighthearted when it needed to be and serious and heartfelt when it needed to be.
Like I said, this novel was extremely well written and I think it dealt with heavy topics wonderfully, I just wish I could have related to it a little more.
I am not crying. YOU are.I'm going to go strangle-hug my dog now.
Felt the unquestionable love and devotion of a dog?
I felt the anguish of Ted in his struggle to save Lily from the octopus and in his own struggles to have a genuine life, a full life, a life that is lived and not just observed.
Steven Rowley is a powerful writer, because he pulls us into the story.
I felt Lily's soft tongue licking my face, saying it was okay, even if it wasn't.This story came from the heart of Steven Rowley.
I hope his heart has a few more stories to tell us.
I received this via Goodreads FirstReads in exchange for an honest review.---*There may be personal stuff abound so if you don't like it, feel free to click the back button*karen's review is what initially brought this to my attention and when I saw the giveaway for it, figured why not and took a shot at it.Saw the blurb on the back and thought "this book is gonna wreck my emotions isn't it?"And it did.---Not a perfect novel but a sweet and cute and occasionally beautiful look at the relationship between Ted and Lily (how can you not fall in love with this dog!).Their relationship reminded me of the one Tasha and I had..
