https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6792458-the-new-jim-crow
Then I realized she was the Ohio State law professor who had caused some stir five years ago with her book The New Jim Crow, a book which demonstrated how our criminal justice system was in effect little more than a system of racial oppression.
Its most noticeable effect is mass incarceration: today, the United States locks up more people per capita than any other country in the world, and the number of black people in prison is three times greater than their percentage of the general population.But The New Jim Crow demonstrates that it is not merely the large number of people in prison, but the severe curtailment of their rights after they leave prison that generates much of the system's hopelessness.
While the “War on Drugs,” hopped up on federal funds and confiscated property, is systematically exploiting African American neighborhoods to supply the ever-growing prison industry with human beings to incarcerate, the mass imprisonment of young black men is inevitable.
Felony convictions of African Americans for simple possession of the kinds of drugs that white youth are routinely expected to “experiment with” are easily obtained, but incarceration is just the beginning.
Once branded a felon in America today, one has no future--no job, no loan for tuition, no food stamps to help feed the children, no vote, no jury service.
The notion that the War on Drugs was at the heart of a “stunningly comprehensive and well-disguised system of racialized social control that functions in a manner strikingly similar to Jim Crow” (p 4) would have been beyond my limited understanding of race in these United States.Michelle Alexander’s The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness is stunning.
The racialized social control she writes of in the introduction is quite simple to state, but devastating in complexity: the United States, since the dismantling of Jim Crow began in the mid-1940s, has sought to maintain the social dominance of its white population by the systematic mass incarceration of people of color, primarily young black men.
After the end of slavery, southern Democrats enforced racist laws, effectively cutting off the newly freed populations from voting rights, jury duty, and so forth.
The majority of drug users are white (being the majority of the population) but the majority of those imprisoned are black.What is the state of drugs today?
How is the new Jim Crow implemented beyond drugs?
Tacit support of 'tough-on-crime' laws, increasing prisoner intake, earning a profit by cutting out amenities, keeping their 'guests' there as long as possible.
Twenty years ago, former prisoners could at least earn a living with manufacturing jobs.
Why I believe things only change on the surface, looks like we're making progress, but look underneath and you'll find something else there.This book looks underneath, to a system that though it has changed focus, has been in place for a very long time.
Not sure I agree with everything she presents, nor how she does it, but it is eye opening, definitely makes one think.
I think this narrator was very good and that this was the perfect platform for this scholarly written book.
The New Jim Crow is essential reading for Americans who don't or haven't followed these issues closely over the last 30 years.
If you have followed the reasons for and impacts of the US approach to incarceration on the African-American community (and be honest with yourself on whether you've read a few WashingtonPost or Atlantic Magazine articles from time to time or really dug in over time on the data and history), there's little new here, but it's a good reminder and summary, anyway.
users of crack cocaine, and other salient facts covered in The New Jim Crow, you might find it even more effective to invite them to watch The 13th (a Netflix documentary) with you.
No, black people aren't the majority in our American prisons because they're more likely to commit crimes. They're there because the "War on Drugs" has been applied to them more frequently than any other racial group. Give a damn, people. Read this book and stop lying to yourselves.
In the very beginning, Mrs. Alexander states for whom this book was written: people who have a hard time convincing friends, neighbors and others that there is something oddly familiar with the current order.
She has done this perfectly and thus I highly recommend this book to anyone who has a hard time convincing others that the current state of Blackamerica is not due to a mortal/cultural flaw, but instead stems from a perfect storm of institutional control that perhaps was initially well-intended, but at present insist upon maintaining a status quo that has decimated the African-American community and is doing the same to our Latino brothers and sisters.
In The New Jim Crow, Michelle Alexander argues that the war on drugs and its consequent incarceration of a disproportionate number of black American men amounts to a new form of racialized social control akin to the Jim Crow laws.
She does an extraordinary job reviewing history, the different branches of the legal system, and the economic, social and political circumstances of black Americans today.
She does a particularly skilful job of anticipating arguments against her thesis, responding to each one with careful and persuasive analysis.
As I listened to this audio book, I couldn't help thinking that it's unfortunate that current political debate is so far removed from this level of analysis and thoughtfulness.
The real purpose was revealed only as the accompanying intentions of Black Ops in Central America, Conservative reaction to Great Society and Civil Rights legislation, and unresolved racial hatred began to interact.
The behavioral purpose was coherent and deadly: the short term destruction of Black communities through the introduction of crack cocaine and associated criminality; and the long term political disenfranchisement of Black citizens through legislation that denies voting and a range of other fights to drug crime felons.The purposeful results of the war have been remarkable, and remarkably unnoticed politically in America.
With eloquence, passion, and careful research, Michelle Alexander shows how slavery in the United States has not disappeared - it has just changed shape, into the mass incarceration of black men.
Among many formidable arguments, Alexander emphasizes the importance of doing away with the notion of colorblindness and how we need to see race more than ever.
I will end this brief review with some of Alexander's words, because she says everything way better than I can:"Seeing race is not the problem.
I live in a city that is a microcosm of America.
I want to live in a country that embraces all of its citizens, accepts people for who they are and helps people who need support.
This is true for all Americans and we should be able to proudly display our differences.I do not want to live in the highly-disturbing world described in this book because it is so far from the ideals of America as a nation of possibility.
I know, however, that I do live in the America of this book and that I can not change it alone.
On one hand, it's a well researched compilation of the history of mass incarceration (it's swelling size in particular) and race in all aspects of the criminal justice system.
It does a great job of shining a light on the dangers of colorblindness in criminal justice (and any other) public policy, but makes a quite a few sweeping statements and generalizations that I really wish had more evidentiary support.
In sum a great book if you're interested in learning more about the impact of the criminal justice system on African-American men.
Not so great if you're interested in its impact on other minority groups or minority women in particular.
(Side note: "Design" may be a misleading word in that it implies the intent of the system to suppress minorities.
I do not think that lawmakers consciously designed the justice system to suppress minorities, but that there is a confluence of situations that result in our system being overwhelmingly detrimental for minorities.
Sometimes her language implies it, but other times she is careful not to imply it)Nevertheless, I am utterly convinced now that the criminal justice system is fundamentally flawed, to the detriment of minorities and to the benefit of whites.
One small conviction can sentence a person to life-long penury, marking them as a criminal forever and making them far more likely to turn to crime to survive.You may not agree withAlexander’s hypothesis, but regardless, some of what she reveals about the expansion of police powers in the US is genuinely terrifying.Law changes connected to “The war on drugs’ mean that Police departments can be financially rewarded for increasing their numbers of drug arrests and convictions, encouraging them to go for easy drug collars rather than pursue more serious crimes.
I came to see that mass incarceration in the United States had, in fact, emerged as a stunningly comprehensive and well-disguised system of racialized social control that functions in a manner strikingly similar to Jim Crow.""… Once they are released, they are often denied the right to vote, excluded from juries, and relegated to a racially segregated and subordinated existence.
Through a web of laws, regulations, and informal rules, all of which are powerfully reinforced by social stigma, they are confined to the margins of mainstream society and denied access to the mainstream economy.
The New Jim Crow is one of the most important books published in the English language in a great many years, because it dispels so many of our cherished illusions and takes no prisoners in naming those responsible or in proposing remedies.For starters, “The United States now has the highest rate of incarceration in the world, dwarfing the rates of nearly every developed country, even surpassing those in highly repressive regimes like Russia, China, and Iran.” The number of prisoners of African-American and Latino descent is wildly out of proportion to their share of the general population, and the War on Drugs accounts for the lion’s share of the difference.
I've worked in the violence prevention sector for 12 years now, and I've recently started learning about the prison industrial complex.
As someone who focuses on systems of oppression, I tend to self-righteously roll my eyes when other white people are "shocked" at blatant cases of discrimination or violence in their community.So I have to say, while reading this book I WAS SHOCKED.
While conflict res still should be taught as a necessary life skill, nonprofit organizations should look at ways to advocate for dismantling the current mass incarceration system, especially onerous elements of the War on Drugs.
A must-read for anyone who is serious about understanding the current state of law, order and justice.
When that comes to living in ghettoised areas, with no jobs, inadequate schooling, bad housing and no foreseeable way out, turning to a life of crime may look like an easy and understandable option.
But what if it isn't the lack of a home, money or opportunities that drives people to break the law, but being unfairly targeted within the system, having done nothing, or little wrong, that leads to being labelled as a criminal.
If you're not the sort of person who wants to read this book, because you think the criminal justice system does it's job by keeping offenders off the street, with no racial targeting, then I guess this book is for you too.
I had the e-book from my local online library source but soon found that I had purchased two hardback copies with the idea of distributing them to people whom I could not imagine should miss the chance to read it!
I have a specific audience in mind— people who care deeply about racial justice but who, for any number of reasons, do not yet appreciate the magnitude of the crisis faced by communities of color as a result of mass incarceration.
Organize!And here is a great thing: Since you are reading this on Goodreads, you can preview the book right here!

Almost as if she's hiding something...Though there is much dawdling over hack psychology studies (any of those results replicable?), though there are many crocodile tears shed over anecdotes of injustice, though the prose of a wannabe James Baldwin (who isn't?!), the basic thesis of the book is simple: Blacks and whites use drugs as a similar rate, but blacks are locked up at a much higher rate than whites.
Because taking arms against this bloated, wretched hydra would take all day, let's strike at that central thesis, the heart of the book: The claim that blacks and whites use drugs at the same rate.1.
This Isn't Simply a Drug Issue or a Black/Brown Thing.I appreciate the history detailed this book, i.e., slavery to reconstruction to Jim Crow to the 60s.
Sure, it's tougher to make the case for restoring rights to convicted rapists, child molesters, swindlers or (in the case of the author's opening example) ex-murderers, but the author slid past the bigger, uglier truth when this really isn't just a drug issue or a black/brown thing.To be clear: I believe black boys and men are more likely to be profiled, arrested, charged and pressured to plead.
The strongest case for change rests on what happens after time served (in prison and on probation/parole).
I'm speechless. EVERYONE should read this.I read this book for the Goodreads' Book Club Diversity in All Forms! If you would like to participate in the discussion here is the link: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/..."As the United States celebrates the nation's "triumph over race" with the election of Barack Obama, the majority of young black men in major American cities are locked behind bars or have been labeled felons for life. Although Jim Crow laws have been wiped off the books, an astounding percentage of the African American community remains trapped in a subordinate status--much like their grandparents before them."
The fact that she examined everything with such nuance, refuting counterarguments left and right, makes the book all the more satisfying.At times it reads a bit like a textbook, which is why this is four stars for me, but the content itself is essential reading.Every American should be required to read this, to attempt to understand how mass incarceration has devastated black communities, how the War on Drugs is a tool of racial oppression, and particularly how indifference and apathy are often more dangerous than outright maliciousness when it comes to the oppression of minority (particularly black) communities.
Some people really thought that blacks were progressing in our society, after all Obama was elected, and you don't hear much from the black community anymore. What a surprise this book was. It should be required reading in every freshman high school class. It should be talked about in the news, but it isn't.
Learning how the US justice system unjustly and unfairly jails the  vulnerable people was hard to digest.
There are far too many people in America who believe black people experience poverty and commit crimes because they don't want to work hard enough.
The over policing of marginalized communities and the harsh penalties people face for non-violent drug offenses maintains a racial caste system.
This book discusses the politics, reasons, and excuses that have resulted in mass incarceration.
I recommend this to everyone who wants to think more deeply about how racism has created and maintains mass incarceration in America.
Why are so many black and brown men run through the cycle of incarceration-as-career?
Using historic examples, modern statistics, anecdotes, and her skill set as a lawyer and professor, Alexander paints a compelling argument that while America may have overcome slavery and the original Jim Crow system, we merely replaced those with a possibly uglier monster: the current mass incarceration system.
Alexander points out that mass incarceration sucks young brown boys from decrepit, third world schools and spits them into high-tech, privately run prisons.
If you've heard an increased debate in recent years about the injustice of our mass incarceration system, you could probably trace that debate back to this book.
Technically, I've finished reading this book, but, I'm not through studying it. So much to absorb, here. No need to review it. For me the questions are: how will having read The New Jim Crow impact my thoughts, conversations, and actions moving forward? How will I receive news stories about crime, the criminal justice system, mass incarceration, the legalization of marijuana, the opioid crisis, black exceptionalism....?
