https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1620726.Through_the_Wheat
After reading several books on the Great War, I came to Through the Wheat.
Old Hepburn was my grandfather.
He was only 20 years old!
Or maybe,"Old Hepburn" refers to the fact that Thomas Boyd and my grandfather, Robert W.
Hepburn, knew each other in Elgin, IL, enlisted together in May 1917 in Chicago, continued to Parris Island and Quantico before embarking from New York to France.My grandfather fought in and was wounded in the battle of Chateau Thierry/St. Mihiel sector in June 1918.
He viewed the war as the great adventure of his life.
Through the Wheat joins several other highly regarded war-novels on my bookshelf.
A common denominator among many of these, including Through the Wheat, is an author who survived the war about which they write (WW1 here).
Quite unlike techno-thrillers, veteran-written novels like Through the Wheat (and “Barbara” for WW2) make it abundantly clear that War is indeed hell, that men crack, that cowardice and desertion are not uncommon, and that rank does not bestow intelligence.I haven’t read the Red Badge of Courage in decades, but another reviewer compared these two titles, so I’ll add it to the list and see if it’s an appropriate comparison.
A revealing insight into marine combat WWI.
The consequences of intense combat: the wearing down of spirit and body into numbness.
Another insight into insanity of war.
Boyd, the writer, was there.
Though his writing style seemed to be a bit rough, he's forgiven because of his ability to shed the insights of war.
Makes me think today that if the politicians say there's a war, they and their children should be willing to expose themselves to the horror of it.
This book is probably not for everyone.
Those interested in WWI genre will probably find it a worthy read.
Hats off to Thomas Boyd.
A good book.
Pretty good read, I found it a bit hard to follow at times and a bit slow in the beginning however, it does a great job describing the horrors of WWI and the the things combat can do to a man mentally and physically. I would encourage anyone who is interested in the Marine Corps or WWI to give it a read.
A Somber Tale of the Marines in World War IFocusing on a platoon of U.S. Marines during the summer months of 1918, the novel follows one Marine and a few of his comrades as their division moves in and out of action. The novel highlights the emotions and perceptions of the protagonist.
Boyd's character goes through several stages as he reacts to the brutality and (seeming) futility of war until the ending where "his soul is numb."
A good historical fiction book about the Marines in WWI.
