https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235846.A_Child_s_Calendar
One of my favorite writers and one of my favorite illustrators made a children's book together in 1965 and it took me this long to find it? Well, Happy Christmas to me!!This is my new love. If you enjoy great children's books, you should just trust me and order yourself a copy.
This collection of modern-day poems convey the experiences of one year, with one poem for each month.
Written skillfully in a gentle rhyming rhythm, and full of tactile, aesthetic details that will resonate with children, this is a fine way to observe the turning of the calendar's pages.
On the December page, some parents will be disappointed that the holiday scene features a small Santa Claus but no creche, and the "miracle" the shepherds and kings await is explained to be "another year" rather than the Christ child.
The poems in this book are simple and charming. They depict a traditional or stereotypical vision of New England. If you have a childhood connection to that region, they may evoke sentimental feelings, either good or bad, perhaps depending on your viewpoint.Updike used a variety of poetic techniques, so the book is useful for introducing them to children.A poem for each month. The passing of seasons. Beautiful and satisfying.
My favorate month is June which is The sun is rich and gladly pays in golden hours, silver days, and long green weeks that never end. School's out. The time is ours to spend. There's little league, hopscotch, the creek, and, after supper, hide-and-seek. The live-long light is like a dream, and freckles come like flies to cream.
My five year old and I enjoyed the illustrations, but I think that the poetry went over his head. I would recommend this to an older child (8 - 10) or even just an adult reminiscing about their own childhood.
Caldecott honor picture book. Sure it was nice. Pretty good art, readable poems. A bit too rural for me. And plain. But it just didn't seem to have any zing. It just felt fake and flat. Which is too bad because the art deserved better than that. Worth reading as a months of the year book, at least it is different and not trivial. But still just a thud of a book.
Poetry is just one of those things that I don't love anymore. However, this book is really not bad as a poetry book for children. The rhymes aren't clunky and they are easily read aloud. The only awkward one is the one for November. The illustrations are nice, they have an old-fashioned feel to them but don't look too dated. If it was up to me though, I prefer humorous poetry over sentimental poetry for children. I would rather read Silverstein or Prelutsky to children.
A poem for each month is combined with detailed illustrations of a family participating in a variety of activities throughout the year (making valentines, flying a kite, riding bikes, barbecuing, trick-or-treating, and many others.)
1. This is a poetry book focused on the months within a Calendar year.
This book could be used in aid to children learning the months of the year.
4. Students who like nature would probably like this book because it does mention a lot of nature aspects.
Students who love poetry would also benefit from reading this book.
5. This book could be used in small circles especially if you were having them compare the different types of rhyme schemes.
6. This book could be read aloud.
If read aloud I think it could even be used in the younger grades, especially when teaching the months in a year.
My version sadly did not have the lovely book jacket cover.
The book was originally published in 1965 by the same author but different illustrator (Nancy Ekholm Burkert who was a Caldecott Honor recipient and also the original illustrator of "James and the Giant Peach").
The book features one poem for every month of the year, plus one full color full page and one quarter page illustration.
My favorite poems were March, April, September, October, and November.
I also like the quarter page illustration for October, with the kids jumping a giant pile of fallen yellow and orange leaves.
"A Child's Calendar" by John Updike is a nice collection of poems about each month of the year.
In the book, Updike goes through every month and shares a little about it and describes it in a poem.
I would read just one poem from it (depending on which month we were starting) and think it would be a great way to engage my students and get them thinking about all the month will bring.
I think the poems and illustrations would be a big hit amongst my students!
A book of nice enough poems - one for each month - with accompanying illustrations by Trina Schart Hyman. The August picture (featuring a naked baby at the beach) makes me laugh every time I read the book. So cute!
Lovely poems and images.
A Poem for each month. The collection describes each month through poems. Simple and easy read with illustrations. Those who like poetry go for this mostly suitable to children.
A good book for 5 to 9-year-old children.
These collections of poems are about the different months and their seasonal changes.
The poems work with our senses of the seasons reminding us of familiar smells of the month.
These poems don’t rhyme much and kind of lose their rhythm.
In a way, the rhythm reflects the tone of the month it its referring to.
I enjoy the colorful pictures for each month but missed the steady flow that I enjoy in poems.
This would be a great book to spark the reader’s memories of things they do during the year.
This is a poetry book for children based on our calendar.This book has a poetry for every month. Each describes the month by focusing on things such as seasons, holidays, etc., that are experienced in each.I would use this book to introduce poetry since all students can relate to the months of the year. After looking at the characteristics of poetry with this book and others, students would then have to create their own poetry. They can have the option of focusing on a topic used in the books we read together or something different.
2000 Caldecott Honor - Favorite Illustration: The April page with the beautiful details of birds, daffodils, and springtime meadows.This is a beautiful book of poetry that has one page full of beautiful details celebrating the natural details and the family activities that occur during each month of the year. I especially love how each month has things that the families are doing together, and most of the things they are doing are out in the beauty of the world around us.
Genre: PoetryUnique feature: The book has a poem for each month, the poems rhyme, they describe the weather, things to do and see during this month. The illustration show the same family during each month and what activities they are engaging in during that month. Grades: k-5The book would work well for a variety of ages, it can be used to talk about seasons, months or relate to calendar time for the younger students.
This was a sweet collection of poetry dedicated to each month. Each poem sticks to the same format, and highlights the themes of each month and season. It's pretty easy for kids to follow along with, and relates to things that children will recognize. The illustrations were also pretty, and I really appreciated the inclusion of an interracial family as the main subject of the pictures.
The pictures in this book are hilarious... check out August :) lol! Very fun book to read with beautiful artwork. I also loved the sentiment behind each month... oh if we could only go back and live according to childhood days.
• 2000 Caldecott Honor Book •I'm not a big fan of poetry, but I really enjoyed this collection of charming poems. The artwork is great and fits really well, but the bookcover is so boring and dreary looking! Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
These poems are amazing! There is one for every month of the year. Every beautiful one eloquently tells the best of every season. :)
A collection of 12 poems describing the activities in a child’s life and the changes in the weather as the year moves from January to December.Great illustrations.
Poetry -Beautifully written poetry for every month of the year. The descriptions helped me remember the fun activities associated with that month, the sights, smells, sounds, and feelings.
Each month's poem consists of four or five or six 4-lined stanzas, written by John Updike. Illustrations are colorful and often depict children engaging in some seasonally appropriate activity.
Wonderful poems for each month with beautiful pictures.
A Child's Calendar is a collection of poems that goes through each month of the year. Each month's poem is highlighted with the major events, sightings and holidays of that month. The illustrations compliment the poem nicely and are a great visual for the child or person reading.Updike, J. (1999). A Child’s Calendar. New York, NY: Holiday House.
My reservation about the images, however, is that, while there is a familiarity about each picture, as the activity being depicted is very mainstream (trick-or-treating, making Valentines at the dining room table, having a picnic, playing at the beach), it rarely shows the people ever looking happy.
Even more rarely are the children shown looking pleasant, so it seems a little bit of a downer.
Not that I expect perfectly posed shiny-happy people all the time, but it was noticeable that the child was rarely even smiling.
This book would, however, be a lovely addition to a study of weather or seasons or time passing.
For example, for the month of July, Updike discusses Independence Day with this stanza: "America / It makes us think / Of hot dogs, fries, / And Coke to drink." Now, I realize this book is for kids, but really?
That's all he's got to say about what America means...hot dogs, fries, and Coke?
On the whole: cute, and possibly a good way to teach kids about the months of the year...but it could have been better.
Knopf-the updated 1999 edition, illustrated by Trina Schart Hyman and published by Scholastic Inc.Burkert's 1965 illustrations are delicate black-and-white drawings, with either blue or red accents.
Examples of more minor changes:The trees of lace  vs.
The trees' black lace and Milk bottles burst Outside the door.
And parkas pile upNear the door.Examples of more significant changes:The playground calls The ice-cream man, And, after supper, Kick-the-can.vs.
and Each flower, leaf And blade of sod— Small letters sent To her from God. vs.
Each flower, leafAnd blade of turf— Small love-notes sentFrom air to earth.
