https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2232808.Winnie_the_Pooh_and_Some_Bees
I have the complete Winnie-the-Pooh but picked this up for my 4-year-old niece. She seemed to like it.
Een leuk verhaal, goed voor mijn niveau van nederlands. De namen van de personen zijn wat grappig:Winnie-the-Pooh = Winnie-de-PoehPiglet = Knorretje (grunter?)Eeyore = IejoorRoo = RoeRabbit = KonijnTigger = TeigertjeOwl = Uil
Well! You can never tell with bees! Can you?
I love Winnie the Pooh or, as Christopher Robin tells the narrator, "He's Winnie-ther-Pooh.
Don't you know what ther means?"And the narrator replies, " 'Ah, yes, now I do,' I said quickly; and I hope you do too, because it is all the explanation you are going to get."This is the story that introduced Winnie to the world and ...
Still, the lengths Winnie goes to, with the aid of Christopher Robin, to get to the honey high up in a tree, are funny and charming and so very Pooh-ish.
these are the wrong sort of bees." I wish I was as sanguine as Pooh.
Fun read !
I loved this story as a child and decided to read it again and all the loving memories come flying back. i still love these crazy stories of a boy and his bear.
Author: A A MilneIllustrator: E H ShepardFirst Published: as a story in Winnie-the-Pooh, 1926.A single story taken out of the context of Winnie-the-Pooh.It's a lovely story but without the surrounding context it is lacking.Almost made it.Age:Read aloud: 4+Read yourself: 6+-CR-
Hahaha A cute story. Winnie the pooh has found some bees hanging around a tree and believes there to be honey in the tree "where there are bees there are honeys" and HE WANTS IT!! Enlisting the help of ever faithful Christopher Robins and his Big blue balloon he tries to get the honey from the tree, but what mischief can he get up to when trying to be greedy.....?I think you know where this is going. So sweet though and children will love it.
Winnie the Pooh is hilarious. I don't even know how to describe this kind of humor, but I love it. It's this subtle absurdity coming from the hyper-innocent Pooh that is positively enchanting.I have no idea where I got this book from. I saw it in my closet just now and gave it a read. It may be the shortest book in existence, something like 100 words. But this short work is heavy with jokes. It was great. I'd recommend it to anyone ages 2 and up.
I prefer these older, classic version of Winnie the Pooh to the ones that are put out today. They are actually far less wordy, but they tell the same stories using richer vocabulary and more succinct narration. In the modern version of this (which we also have), Christopher Robin does *not* pop the balloon with his gun, of course. We wouldn't want to encourage the idea that it is acceptable for boys to play with toy guns. This is my daughter's favorite of the classic Pooh books.
As my quest to learn about and read all the Winnie the Pooh books, I'm making pretty good progress. This one is about Poohs' quest to float up to the sky where the bees are, floating up on a blue balloon and Pooh calls for Christopher Robin to get his cork gun and shoot him so he comes floating down. Real cute story - not a whole lot of plot.
Note that this is NOT the Disney version of Pooh's experience with the bees. Nor is it directly from Milne. It is an adaption of what Milne wrote. And a very good adaption, in my opinion. As a lover of the original Milne Pooh books, I was pleased to see the same story, with a more accessible format for today's young readers. The adaption did not change the tone or fun of the original story.
I remember this one from my childhood. Part of the original Winnie the Pooh Treasury set I got when my oldest was born. They are longer than the board books we have featuring Pooh and his friends, but are still great for young children.
My little Granddaughter loves Winnie The Pooh and she was very attentive as I read this story to her so I gave the story 5 stars. My Granddaughter even shushed her mother when she interrupted the story.
Baca di Pustaka Kelana, nemenin Chio. Pooh punya ide hebat untuk mengambil madu. Dia minta Christopher Robin meniupkan balon supaya dia bisa terbang ke sarang para lebah. Tapi rencananya tidak berjalan dengan mulus.
Fun, clear, simple.I prefer "Ten Little Ladybugs" because I can read that one either quickly or slowly. This one necessitates a great deal of repetition. Still popular in kidland, though.
I think this is everyone's favorite Pooh story because this is the book that made Pooh famous. There are many funny little parts where A.A. Milne shows his humor.
Three dimensional pictures illustrate the consequences of Winnie-the-Pooh's pursuit of honey in a beehive.
Winnie the Pooh by A. A. Milne (1961)
A great little book that fits in a purse or bag which you can take with you if you have little ones. I recommend it for children 0-3 years old.
