https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34810320-sadie
And it begins, as so many stories do, with a dead girl. Holy hell, this book hit me hard.I've been reading Summers' books for seven years now and she is both consistently good and continually getting better. I remember thinking that Some Girls Are was one of the most powerful and vicious books I'd ever read back in 2011. Then All the Rage came along and destroyed me some more.Whether Summers is writing a contemporary high school novel, a mystery, or a zombie apocalypse, she crawls right inside
I remember thinking that Some Girls Are was one of the most powerful and vicious books I'd ever read back in 2011.
I felt so deeply for Sadie as she goes in search of the man who hurt her sister.
You can just imagine it - Sadie’s story becoming the latest True Crime special - and it honestly hurts to read.
In the end, it feels like a book about all the ways Sadie is let down by the people who should have helped and protected her; all the ways poor young girls are let down by the people who should have helped and protected them.
Every now and then, I stumble upon a book that makes me wish to heap violence on my vocabulary, to wrench away words like “good” and “amazing” and excavate something more genuine, more raw, more appropriate to the experience of reading it.Sadie splintered in my heart, and I’m sure the author meant it to.
My desolation deepened at the knowledge that each day, the crank will turn anew, and the gears of the world will lurch into motion but the broken edges of her little sister’s sundered name will not grow smooth with time; Sadie's guilt and grief were corrosive, and she was a husk.Reading this book felt as though I was clinging to the edge of reason by my fingertips, and the spinning world might at any given moment shake me off and hurl me.
I am grateful that Courtney Summers did not sensationalize any of the abuse that went on before and during the events of this book.
If you can handle the subject matter (which I wasn't sure I could at first), I'd highly recommend it!Sadie reads like a puzzle, with half of the story being told from Sadie's perspective and half from the perspective of a man doing a podcast on Sadie's disappearance.
It's partially up to you to piece together the timeline, which I loved!Make sure you listen to it as an audiobook as it's partially told in the style of a podcast with a large cast of voice actors!
Sometimes the story isn’t about the dead 13-year-old girl, left in a field behind a burned out schoolhouse, but rather the disappearance of her nineteen-year-old sister.
Knowing there are kids out there living this life right now, makes this story that much harder to stomach.Courtney Summers gives just enough of the story to make assumptions about the finale—all of the pieces are there, waiting to be assembled as the reader sees fit.
There’s almost a quiet beauty to the way Courtney Summers strings thoughts together, while simultaneously working to keep the reader in the dark.
but what happpppppppened?????
All I knew was that it was half-podcast, half-novel which tells the story of a girl searching for her sister’s killer.
This is my first read from Courtney Summers, though I’m aware she does not shy away from tough topics in her books, and the same can be said for Sadie.
Piecing the story together through Sadie’s search and Wes’ investigation made for a unique and compelling reading experience.
There are some high intensity moments that are true page-turners, but other moments were a little stagnant for me.Overall, Sadie is truly a one-of-a-kind story.
“I don’t know why this is the thing I choose to say out loud because it hurts to say it, to feel the truth of those words pass my lips, to have them be real in this world.
But she’s dead is the reason I’m still alive.
She’s dead is the reason I’m going to kill a man.”  Sadie is worth all the praise and hype you’ve heard about it.
I had a feeling I was going to love this book, but I didn’t know that I would give it a piece of my heart.
And I know a lot of people don’t love the ending, but I think it is one of the most powerful endings I’ve probably ever read in my entire life.
I didn’t know this going in, and as a matter of fact I don’t think I’ve ever read a book where the main character has a stutter before, but it was perfection.
There is a line in this book about Sadie feeling alive when her sister comes home from the hospital, and how she laid a hand on her baby sister’s chest and felt her breathing, and I was uncontrollably weeping while reading it.
*5 solid stars!*"I’m dangerous. You shouldn't underestimate people, I want to call out. I have a knife."SADIE has lost herself and she doesn't want to be found. Not by the few remaining people in her life, not even by life itself. She lets the reader know right away that she is being fueled only by revenge, and there is no question that Sadie is surviving for the sole purpose of killing the man she believes murdered her little sister.  "I’m going to kill a man. I’m going to steal the light from
She lets the reader know right away that she is being fueled only by revenge, and there is no question that Sadie is surviving for the sole purpose of killing the man she believes murdered her little sister.
Sadie has stripped away the outer layers of herself until all that remains is this primal, animalistic being whose desire to kill this man has become the only thing in life that matters.
Sadie’s character, with all of her pain, is sharp and witty, and even funny at times.
▪  Plot: Sadie sets out to kill the man she believes murdered her sister.
there are two narrative voices: the rawnerve howl of nineteen-year-old sadie, on the trail of the man she believes killed her thirteen-year-old sister mattie, and west mccray - the creator of the podcast The Girls, whose contributions are mostly in the form of transcripts from that podcast, with all the rounded-edged detached professional compassion of an NPR host.
sadie has zero rounded edges left.
You just try to survive it until one day, you don’t.what she did have was her devotion to mattie, and with mattie gone, she’s got nothing left to lose and she’s a mama-bear incandescent with vengeance.
I didn't know what to tell her. That I tried not to think about that kind of stuff, because it was painful, because I thought I could ever have it, but when I did end up liking someone, it always made me ache right down to my core. I realized pretty early on that the who didn't really matter so much. That anybody who listens to me, I end up loving them just a little.   Heartbreaking, hopeful, and impossible to look away from.  I am really loving this recent trend in YA thrillers of killer wome
There’s a really interesting element of this book where, at least in the arc copy, no one in the book really does anything beyond imply pedophilia until around 60% of the way through the book, when Sadie asks a man point-blank whether he's a pedophile.
That element is just one facet of the horror of this book - that Sadie knows it's wrong, and yet she refuses to say it.
. I could not look away, but I think it was worth it.
You got Sadie to the final round of the Goodreads Choice Awards!
If you want to see her named Best YA Fiction of 2018, you have until November 26th to cast your vote!
Whatever happens next, *thank you* for making Sadie a finalist--your belief in and support of her story of revenge, sisterhood, love and survival means the world to me and has enabled more people to discover it.
Thank you for continuing to show up for this book.
Thank you for your votes.
I've truly got the best readers.Vote Sadie for Best YA Fiction of 2018 here: https://www.goodreads.com/choiceaward...❤️
Many have to go to a neighboring town for work and school.Mary Beth Foster was Mattie and Sadie's neighbor and the manager of the trailer park where they lived.
Now Sadie is missing and Mary Beth Foster just wants to find someone who can help.
Someone who will give a damn...West McCray is a radio personality who just happens to overhear a little bit of Sadie and Mattie’s story.
West doesn't really want to do it at first, but finds that he can't stop thinking about their story and ends up creating a serialized podcast called “The Girls”
"When Sadie lost Mattie, it drove her to leave her home in Cold Creek, to take on the loneliness and pain of all those miles, just to find her little sister's murderer and make the world right again, even, possibly, at the expense of herself." Sadie was everything I hoped she would be and more! She is the kind of character that tays with you long after you have finished reading the book.Sadie has had a hard life but nothing affects her more deeply than the murder of her sister. It was a horrifi
"When Sadie lost Mattie, it drove her to leave her home in Cold Creek, to take on the loneliness and pain of all those miles, just to find her little sister's murderer and make the world right again, even, possibly, at the expense of herself."
She is the kind of character that tays with you long after you have finished reading the book.Sadie has had a hard life but nothing affects her more deeply than the murder of her sister.
Sadie's story is harsh and simply heart crushing.
Sadie is one of those rare characters that will live on in my heart.
I had some heavy stuff going on in my personal life, and I think a book of this calibre wasn't helping me to escape in the form that I needed at the moment.
All this to say, if you're in a heavy or emotional place in your life right now, you may want to hold off until the opportune moment to pick this one up.
Sadie, the novel, was an atmospheric read, and its claustrophobic nature had me tugging at the collar of my shirt by the end of the book to try and relieve the pressure that was building from my throat to my stomach.
“I’m going to kill the man who killed my sister.”  Sadie is a stunning, heartbreaking read about a girl dead set on murdering the man who killed her little sister.
19-year-old Sadie only had one thing her life to love, which was her 13-year-old little sister, Mattie.
Sadie’s story is split between Sadie’s narrative and a podcast about her disappearance.
There were times when I had to set this book aside because I couldn't endure reading any more of her story.
Summer’s brings Sadie’s character to life, and while this wasn’t always enjoyable to read, her style is enthralling.
At the time I’m writing this review, it’s been a couple of days since I finished Sadie, and I still haven’t fully processed it. This is one of those stories that seeps into your bones somewhere along the way, and it changes the way you look at the world a little. It is the best mystery—and one of the best books, period—that I have ever read, and it is also one of the bleakest, most devastating reading experiences of my life.  And it begins, as so many stories do, with a dead girl. You know, goin
You know, going into this story, that Sadie’s little sister’s body has just been found, and Sadie is on a mission to track down the man she believes is responsible.
I don’t know how many readers will struggle to relate to the age of her inner monologue, but from another woman whose circumstances never quite allowed me to feel like a child, I saw so much of myself in the cynical, pragmatic way Sadie views the world around her.
The most brutal part of it all is that, somehow, it feels like Sadie’s story could be based on a real girl—no, on countless real girls, all over the world.
This book has lingered for a while and each time it popped into my head, I think about how impactful it was to read a story like this.Well, I wasn’t expecting for this story to creep up on me the way it did.
I think it’s best to go on not knowing what the plot of the story is about, but I will try and articulate what it encompassed and how it made me feel.
It’s a story about what love can drive us to do and not do.
But this ending fitted the story well.
Imagine him knowing the steady weight of the earth under his feet while her body is buried six feet below it."Sadie was everything I wished for and so much forking more.I always try to keep my expectations low, especially if it’s a debut author, an overhyped book or a book by an author that I’ve never read before.
No, really, it made me seriously happy.Sadie was one of my favourite reads of 2018 and I hope it will get super famous so that I can talk to people about it.Find more of my books on Instagram
She’s going to find Mattie’s murderer, whatever the cost.
I’m not exactly *surprised* the author did this to us, and part of me—the reasonable one—wants to argue that it’s a realistic last chapter, but I am not satisfied.
Too much in a human being’s life is unsure, so I am expecting book endings to at least give me what I want.But that’s not a reason not to pick up this book, especially since it deserves to be read and Sadie will feel as realistic to you as the—what’s deeply twisted?—Twizzlers you just ate.
That bastard!!!! Sadie..... I'm not writing a proper review. 1. I don't want to 2. There are 5o million reviews on this book & some don't matter in this GR world 3. Maybe I will come back and link some smaller awesome reviews.Pay it forward! Happy Reading! Put on your big girl panties, bring tissues & lots of anger ....Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾To all the girls... you read it... you will know.
Reading this book is like being sucker punched by sadness.Sadie has lived a sad life.
Some of which are happy to ignore Sadie and her younger sister, Mattie.
The reader is also shown Sadie's perspective and her journey attempting to track down the man who killed her sister.This book is extremely well written.
The entire book I wanted to give Sadie a hug and hoped for the best all the while dreading where her path was taking her.
I have not read this Author before and found her writing to be powerful and eloquent.
I will be reading more books by this Author.
h o l y s h i t
if you are wanting a book that ends with a ‘happy ever after,’ then i suggest you look elsewhere.
what you will find is a story about the lengths a girl will go to protect her sister and the high prices she pays when she cant.
i thought every step of the book was so well done, especially the ending.
it was the culmination of everything this story embodied - the uncertainty surrounding the death of a young girl, the desperate need of a sister to find who did it, and every horrifying discovery along the way.
Mattie left behind a nineteen year old sister, Sadie, a surrogate grandmother, May Beth, and her mother, Claire, but Claire has been out of the picture for awhile.
Claire left when Sadie was sixteen which meant Mattie was ten.
She was a habitual drug user, and left her children for this reason.After Mattie's death, Sadie comes up missing, her car is found abandoned, thousand of miles away with all her belongings found inside of it.
If you haven't read this because it's a young adult book, you might want too because I don't think you would notice.
An easy 5 stars to Sadie. ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ Don’t miss her story. I’m sure you’ve seen this book around the blogosphere or Goodreads, and more than likely you’ve noticed the praise showered upon it. All absolutely, positively well-deserved. Please read on and let me introduce you to Sadie, an unforgettable, tenderly drawn character.Sadie’s dad has never been around, and her mom walked out and left her as a teen to raise her younger sister, Mattie. They live in a deserted town in a trailer park where an
Please read on and let me introduce you to Sadie, an unforgettable, tenderly drawn character.Sadie’s dad has never been around, and her mom walked out and left her as a teen to raise her younger sister, Mattie.
The story is told from Sadie’s perspective alternating with West McCray, a radio host recording a podcast while he tries to track Sadie down.
But don’t let that stop you from reading her story because she is someone everyone should get to know.
You will imagine the podcast is real and that Sadie is out there searching for Mattie, while West is searching for her.
I loved COURTNEY SUMMERS' unique writing style here and thought the podcasts was a very effective way for us to get to know all the characters.
Sadie's narrative with stutter and all was absolutely heartbreaking to read and really impacted me as a reader.*Traveling Friends Read*Norma’s Stats:Cover: Stunning, breathtaking, and a perfect and highly affecting representation to storyline.Title: Simply brilliant and such a meaningful representation to storyline.Writing/Prose: Edgy, witty, emotive & brilliantly written.Plot: Engaging, impressive, unforgettable, perfectly-paced, and held my attention.Ending: An ambiguous ending that I think worked really well for this YA story but didn’t necessarily satisfy my need of knowing a little bit more though.
after Mattie is murdered Sadie is devastated and determined...
told in alternating narratives from Sadie in the first person on her quest to find the man who killed her sister...
and what we learned from this was that Sadie was an edgy, unforgettable damaged soul with a big heart...Sadie’s story is riveting, but not easy to digest...
this book took me a little longer to read then most, it took me some time to internalize some things...
sadie broke my heart and I just wanted to reach through those pages give her a big hug and let her know there was someone out there that did care....Absolutely recommend!
0_0 This book is intense and really dark and the ending kind of had me like, "mY KINDLE IS BROKEN I NEED ANOTHER CHAPTER." Which I both love and hate.
It's addictive because you want to unravel this mystery of a missing girl and her murdered sister, but you also, as you keep reading, get this absolute sick feeling about what's really going on.
But basically it's half told as a podcast series by a middle-age man -- and also half told in a really raw and aching 1st person narrative by Sadie herself.
Sadie by Courtney Summers is a brilliant YA novel that absolutely stole my heart and is EVERYTHING!
truly inspiring and so so brilliant!Let's meet Sadie...
her little sister Mattie who is Sadie's world has been taken from her in the worst possible way of being murdered.
She is going to find Mattie's murderer and nothing will STAND in her way.
I LOVE Sadie!
NOW THAT truly means this was a fantastic book.
Courtney you truly have left my soul with an imprint on my heart.
It brings us together and it can just as easily drive us apart.
It can drive us."5 brilliant stars!
it’s hard to call a book a favorite when it’s so gripping but so profoundly disturbing.I rarely read blurbs for books all the way through and I’m so glad I knew little about this going in.
I’m also not in favor of age based censorship but I do think YA aged readers should be aware that this is not graphic but disturbing.All of that being said this is told in alternating POV: you’ve got a true crime style podcast documenting events and then Sadie narrating alongside it.
If you love true crime, pick it up.
