https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23223.Every_Boy_s_Got_One
This is the kind of book that makes me want to write one of my own -- not because it's so great, but because I think I could do so much better.
ATTENTION Ms. Cabot!!!Talking foul about Bangladeshi garments (even if it was to prove Holly's stupidity) is so not done. If you had to use this particular example to show Holly's 'i-don't-live-in-this-world-with-normal-people' then you should've at least clarify the matter in the end or somewhere along the book because I wonder how many readers got baffled by this particular information and will now pass their life without knowing any better.FYI: Bangladesh has THE BEST garment industry in the world, and it's not surprising to find cloths labeled 'Made in Bangladesh' in most of the world's hi-end fashion stores.
(After that, they got iffy.) I liked her novel "The Boy Next Door," which I actually downloaded as PDFs from her website long before it saw print.
So when I saw this book on the shelf at the library, I picked it up, thinking it would be a quick, entertaining read.
To be fair, it was entertaining too, and I might have liked it more if I hadn't read so much of Cabot's other work.
So I guess I give her credit for appreciating a comic moment when she walks into it, but it kind of made the book seem like thinly fictionalized memoir.So, yeah.
1. why is it called every boys got one?2. Why does janes dad get hurt so much??
To: every.boy@bookpublishers.comFr: tardis.fai@bookreader.comRe: Wasted SundayListen book. Could you please return my lost Sunday to me by urgent post, because as adorable as your book format is, your characters and story is very much less so. The year is 2017, and I can no longer continue to read books that are nothing but a string of endless cliches. The ditzy bumbling American tourist cliches. The Italian cliches. Gah. I give up.
I enjoyed the writing style. Cute fast read.
3.5 STARS
I don't know if I've ever come across such a small minded protagonist in all my life.
Wasn't there any other way to describe how he looked?Then she says ridiculously idiotic things like: 'who buys their shirts in BANGLADESH???
Then her mother agrees with her idiocy: 'I agree, Saudi Arabia is a very boring subject for a book' - I don't get it.
Yet another example follows when she asks her friend's gay brother to distract his mother: 'tell her you're going to have a sex change operation!!!
People realise they're in love and suddenly it's the real thing.
I liked to read this book but sometimes I got annoyed with all her rants about Cal. I think that the first book in the series was the best but that's just my opinion and I still liked reading the third book.
Genialísimo como siempre! Meg Cabot consigue sacarme carcajadas con sus historias tan alocadas y sus personajes tan adorables.De verdad que me encanta leer los libros de esta "serie" porque, aunque no suelo leer comedia romántica, me parece genial.Y además no hay largas descripciones ni páginas que no aportan nada. El hecho de que esté narrado en forma de correos, diarios personales y notas hace que se lea en un suspiro y además, podamos ver la historia desde varios puntos de vista.Sin duda seguiré leyendo el resto de títulos!
This book is hilarious! Classic Meg Cabot. It's nice to graduate into her more adult books after growing up on Princess Diaries and co. I've definitely grown up because I can relate more to the male protagonist than the female protagonist this time around. The girl was cute but dumb, and I just preferred the guy on an intellectual level.
Cal was annoying and his character ended up being inconsistent.
Both her and Cal have very different ways of seeing life and they're very strong minded, I guess this was to be a romance between opposites and all of that, but they both just sounded so obnoxious whenever they went on each other about why they're right and the other was wrong just because they had a different opinion.
Also, Cal does a 180 degree chance about 80% into the book and it kind of ruined the whole opposites thing, so in the end we didn't get even that.
Eine meiner Lieblingschicklit (auch noch nach dem 2. Mal lesen :D) Mir gefällt einfach spezielle Schreibstil (Hier ein Mix von SMS, Mails und Tagebucheinträgen)! Dadurch lernen wir neben den Hauptcharaktere auch ihre Familien bzw. der der Brautpaares kennen. Und diese coolen Katzenbilder. Toll!
Moreover, I liked it, like I liked it in The Boy Next Door (the first book of "Boy" series).It was definitely fast and charming reading.Yes, the book was full of cliches, mostly about Americans, Italians, Catholics.
But let's face it it was really funny and these cliches (which Meg Cabot chose) weren't without grounds.
Of course, not all Italians, Catholics, Americans are like those described in the novel, but it is chick-lit romance, not "To Kill a Mockingbird".An additional advantage of the story is that Meg Cabot was inspired by her own elopement to Italy.
The Author of "Princess Diaries" brings you this comical tale of love- it's kind of like "Pride and Prejudice" meets "Bridget Jones' Diary".Our story begins at the Airport where a cheery comic book artist, Jane H.
Both of them assist, or at least one of them at the beginning, was quite excited to assist their best friends to elope in Italy (Mark and Holly).As the story progresses sparks fly between Jane and Cal. They both have opposing views about love and marriage, a debate brought about by their friend's impending nuptials.
Wow, this was bad.
I quite enjoyed the first two books in the series, they were funny and easy to read.
This however, wow.
Jane is a stereotypical "stupid American" abroad, who seems to think the world revolves around her and that anyone who doesn't see how amazing she is, is stupid.
However, as annoying as Jane's ignorance and insults of random countries are, I also found the diary entries of her love interest Cal extremely unbelievable, they sound more like something a 14-year-old girl would write than an adult man.
I almost couldn't finish reading this book and would give it 0 stars if I could.
The third in the "Boy" series - as a novice to Meg Cabot's books, I liked this one, too.
Her heroines are very similar but likeable, so I don't mind.
A few thoughts and wonderings: We are in Italy this time, and there is an ancient German housekeeper with a (great?)grandson whose presence is never properly explained.
I'm also still in the dark about the title.
Every boy's got one ...
And: To those familiar with Laura Levine's "Jaine Austen" mystery series there are some déjà-vus, namely Jane's long-suffering mother and accident-prone father; also the recurring cat motif.
A história geral desse livro é boa e é uma leitura super rapidinha e dinâmica graças ao texto da Meg Cabot. Mas tem uns americanismos tão pesados (tipo repetir o tempo todo que os USA são a maior potência do mundo) que as pessoas desse livro simplesmente não merecem estar vivendo o sonho de verão italiano.
A lot of this was really out of date. Not just the pop culture references...I mean, I don't mind a Pink reference here and there! But some of the language/jokes made me cringe. Still, Meg Cabot rules and I love her books.
I should have thought that something was iffy since the book was almost half the size of the previous two.The two main characters really annoyed me.
The way in which the two characters got together was very unbelievable, and I found it hard to imagine that someone who cares about the world as much as Cal claimed to could spend the rest of his life with someone who doesn't care about anything except shoes and ER.
Overall, this book had good potential but the plot was pretty unbelievable and the two central characters were unappealing.
For a romantic like Jane that's the worst thing he could have said, and she is determined to keep him from ruining her friend's happiness.The two have nothing in common and rub each other the wrong way, but are also attracted to each other, and their extended close proximity leads to them getting to know each other better and eventually re-evaluating their opinions.The story was cute, but (view spoiler)[I didn't exactly buy the change of heart on Cal's part.
I suppose it makes sense since it also comes as a surprise to him that he's fallen for her, but I still didn't exactly feel the love between them (hide spoiler)].The series continues with The Boy Is Back.Previous book reviews:✦ Boy Meets Girl (Boy #2)✦ The Boy Next Door (Boy #1)
I try to avoid reading chick lits if I can help it.
I'm a grown woman and my taste in literature should at least progress (not that I'm saying chick lits are mindless, but I'd like to think that I've outgrown that era).Well anyway, how would I describe this book without contradicting myself?
It's my favorite chick lit EVER!
Every Boy's Got One is an easy and fun read.
It's a refreshing break from all the other chick lits because of the comical and sarcastic exchange between characters.
This review is long overdue because I read this like three years ago.
Normally I avoid this genre like the plague, not because I don't think I might like it, but because they tend to be horribly trashy.
But this one was written by the same author who wrote the Princess Diaries, so I decided to try it.It was a funny little light romance.
The best bit of the book was the last few pages where the author showed how similar the book was to what really happened to her when she decided to elope to Italy.A fine way to kill an hour or two or so.
I don't think a guy would like it as much.
It was a nice, fast, entertaining read but it's almost like Meg Cabot got a bit lazy.
I loved the emails/memos format of the other books, but this one involved a travel journal and it just wasn't as believable.
I did like the "Little Black Book" at the end wherein Cabot relays that the story is loosely based on her own elopement to Italy.
I also enjoyed the characters, but I didn't love that she was a cartoonist trying a cat and that the drawings were sprinkled throughout the book.
I just couldn't get on board with her and Cal actually falling in love.
Strictly for Meg Cabot and Rom-Com fans.
The title is a little funny and kind of don't really have a connection to the novel except that the book is part of the Boy trilogy by Meg Cabot.
It was almost like reading any of the other 2 novels except that this too was totally fun.
For instance, despite liking it very much I was a little exhausted by the half-way mark and had it lay it off for a couple of days and then kind of rushed through the remaining.
You can pick any of the books in the trilogy at random.


This is the funniest book I've ever read. I had to stop so many times because I was laughing out loud and had too many tears in my eyes to read the words on the page.Thanks, Meg Cabot. I needed that.
Fun to read, very quick read
GreatThis is a funny quirky romance book. I read it in one day because it was so entertaining and interesting. It's hard to put down.
