https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148958.Three_at_Wolfe_s_Door
Three Nero Wolfe novellas, in which 1) a gourmet is poisoned at at a meal prepared by Fritz, 2) a womanizer is strangled with a lariat during a roping contest in Lily Rowan's penthouse, and 3) a woman is strangled in the back of a taxicab parked literally at Wolfe's Door. I think the Wolfe novellas are often superior to the novels, and these three are very good indeed.
This anthology consists of three novellas:Poison a la Carte.The above picture shows a dish of Slavic origin called bliny.
One of them was poisoned while eating bliny; Wolfe feels responsible for involving his cook and thus it is personal for him.
Feeling regret about his behavior Wolfe decided to help Archie for old time's sake.
Archie's girlfriend Lily Rowan organized a party with guests being Manhattan rodeo participants.
The detective also thinks he needs to help his girlfriend avoid bad publicity resulting from a prolonged investigation, so he is on the case and so is Wolfe himself who also happened to be a party guest.
The first story was developed by Timothy Hutton into a screen version for A&E, and was all right. The second, with the dead body in the cab, made me laugh. Not to very likely. The third, not up to standard. Sorry. An average for Rex Stout, which still is above average for others, but not one of his best.
He sets up shop on Wolfe's stoop (planning to slip a dollar under the door for rent afterwards) and listens to Mira Holt's wild tale, knowing perfectly well that it is just a tale, but wanting to know where its going.
In spite of all Laura's shenanigans, Wolfe and Archie manage to work out the solution."Poison a la Carte"This is my favorite short story of them all.
Zoltan is requested to assist in a nifty little fishing expedition, and I loved how they had him practice on the house phone with several people listening so that he would get it right.
THREE AT WOLFE’S DOOR. (1960). Rex Stout. ***.This is a collection of three short novels, each featuring a specific mystery involving Nero Wolfe and his cohorts. There isn’t really any underlying theme that unites these three tales. The closest I could come up with is that each story occurs mostly outside of Wolfe’s house, and he is forced to leave his abode and make his way to a place better suited for solving the mystery. The three tales included are: Poison a la Carte Method Three for Murder
***.This is a collection of three short novels, each featuring a specific mystery involving Nero Wolfe and his cohorts.
The closest I could come up with is that each story occurs mostly outside of Wolfe’s house, and he is forced to leave his abode and make his way to a place better suited for solving the mystery.
The three tales included are:	Poison a la Carte	Method Three for Murder	The Rodeo MurderThe first two are fairly clever, while the third case is truly lame.
It seems as if these were collected from previously published sources, but there was no indication that such was the case on the copy write page.
As usual, Archie Goodwin's hilarious wit and Nero Wolfe's even wittier repartee make all three mysteries as much fun as they are intriguing.1.
Poison a la Carte: Wolfe and Goodwin are invited to a dinner by the aristology club (science of eating).
Method Three for Murder: A woman consults Archie about a "hypothetical" situation.
Archie soon discovers the situation is not at all hypothetical and helps the lady (along with Wolfe) to find out how the body got there, who did it and why.3.
The Rodeo Murder: If you can stomach the phony Texan accents and stereotypes, this is still a funny mystery.
I love the Nero Wolfe books! Laughed out loud many times and kept reading bits to my husband. Such fun!
During the first course, one of the gourmands is given a plate of blinis that has been laced with arsenic, but the poison does not take effect for several courses.As these men are all interested in the food, they pay little attention to the servers, and since the servers are all dressed identically, and, as the first course was some time ago, no one is able to distinguish who did what, when.This is one of the rare stories where Rex Stout appears out of his 35th Street brownstone.Since I read two more novellas since this one, I can't even remember which of the twelve girls was the murderer, even though I finished this one only four days ago.The next of the three novellas is Method Three for Murder, an almost humorous, but very complicated story during which a woman borrows a taxi from a female friend to pick up the man she wishes to divorce, but he doesn't answer the door, and, when she returns to the cab, she finds the body of his dead girlfriend with a knife sticking out of her.
It was not my favorite mystery of the series since it strayed a bit from the peculiar norms associated with the famously eclectic genius, but there is still enough here for fans of Rex Stout's corpulent investigator and his quick-witted gumshoe.
Rex Stout does a fantastic job of conveying the familial devotion and commitment that each of these two strong personalities have for the other."The Rodeo Murder": What lengths Nero Wolfe will go for a good meal.
In this case, he leaves his famous brownstone for some exquisite blue grouse.
Rex Stout's 1960 book "Three at Wolfe's Door (A Nero Wolfe Mystery Book 33)" is a compilation of three of his 1960 short stories:1.
"The Rodeo Murder""Poison" is a Very Good 4 stars out of 5 short story in good Stout form without any real negative.
"Method" is an even better Excellent 5 stars out of 5 short story that's got the added benefit of being even more witty (I'd say humorous if it weren't a murder mystery).
Averaging those out gives still gives a Very Good 4 stars out of 5, so that's what I'm rating the whole compilation at.
For a novelist, Rex Stout, showed a surprising aptitude for the short story.
His collections of short Nero Wolfe mysteries are well worth a look, especially if you are working on a limited time frame; maybe a flight to Baltimore or a bus to Hamilton.
This particular collection contains what to me is certainly the best short story Stout wrote, "Murder a la Carte".
A remarkable dinner goes terribly wrong and deeply involves Wolfe's Swiss chef, Fritz and a bevy of maiden servers.
Take some time and read this book; it is recommended for anyone who loves excellent mysteries and short fiction but not caviar.
Join Archie Goodman and Nero Wolfe on three separate but equally entertaining mysteries as they try to solve murders spanning from a dinner cut short by poisoning, a rented cab with a shocking new passenger, and a rodeo that ends up putting someone's life on the ropes. Stout entertains with this collection of fun and witty stories that will keep fans and newcomers alike pondering until the very end. Wolfe is on the case - too bad this time it means leaving the comforts of his chair.
I either have read this one before and forgot to mark it as read, or the first two stories were collected into some other book. I haven't figured that out yet. The more important thing, however, is the review. Some of the short stories are less fun for me to read, these are not in this category. Three excellent stories.
Not my favorite collection of short Wolfe stories. The last one, for instance, spends a lot of time on totally wasted activity. Wolfe figures the thing out and then still sends Goodwin on a wild goose chase.
In Method Three for Murder, Archie quits work and finds a young woman on the doorstep as he leaves Wolfe's house.
However, soon the police arrive and look in the cab where there is a dead woman in the back seat.
Lily Rowan has three cowboys try to rope a man on a horse in the street below from the balcony of her penthouse apartment.
After the competition, Wade Eisler, a womanizer, is found dead with the rope around his neck in a closet on a balcony of Lily's apartment.
Lily hires Wolf to find the murderer.
Three great Nero Wolfe tales. Archie Goodwin rivals Wolfe as the main character. As always, very hard to put down!
Three good Nero Wolfe/Archie Goodwin stories. As always, thanks Rex Stout.
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
Very fun!!!!! The third was my favorite in this triad. I generally enjoy the full novels better than the collections of three, but of the collections this may be my favorite!
Decent Wolfe collection.Two really fun, solid stories and one that starts strong and kind of ends with an abrupt 'thud'.Though, even weak Rex Stout is better then 75% of good everyone else.
Three mysteries:1) Poison a' la carte - Nero Wolfe's personal chef, Fritz Brenner is honored with an invitation to prepare a dinner for the Ten for Aristology, a meeting of the top gourmets.
But when the obnoxious member seated next to Wolfe is poisoned, he and Archie must find out whose delicate hand delivered Death.2) Method Three for Murder - Archie quits!
Someone has surely abused Miss Rowan's hospitality and as Wolfe was present, it reflects on his honor as well.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPOILERS HAILING A CAB OUTSIDE LILY'S PENTHOUSECover Art - Well done, depicting the last story.
Finally, in "The Rodeo Murder," a lecherous promoter of rodeos is found lassooed and dead in an area of Lily Rowan's penthouse home, where Archie is a guest at a party held for a group of rodeo performers who are in town for a show; when Archie learns that just about everybody in the house at the time has a motive to do away with the promoter, he and Wolfe start investigating, a process not helped by the frequent lying of one of the suspects....
This is a collection of three Nero Wolfe short stories--Poison a la Carte, Method Three for Murder, and The Rodeo Murder--written in the late 1950s.
Always allowing for the time period in which these were written, Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin hold up well; they are enough idiosyncratic that they continue to entertain more than 50 years later.
The plots have to be uncovered too quickly within the space allowed, and Archie and Nero just don’t have time to strut their stuff.For die-hard fans who have read everything else and need their fix.
Three Nero Wolfe stories in one.
One of the diners is poisoned and suspicion falls on half a dozen waitresses.
In 'Method Three for Murder', a corpse is delivered right to Wolfe's door and it's Archie who is hired to solve the case.
The last and the lamest short is titled 'The Rodeo Murder', in which a Broadway producer is killed during a party.
Usually this works to highlight the genius of Nero Wolfe as well as producing a memorable climax.
In the case of these short stories, we don't have enough time to get to know the usual half dozen suspects to be either surprised or amazed.
Three short story mysteries set in New York City around 1960: "Poison a' la carte," "Method Three for Murder," and "The Rodeo Murder." Archie's humorous view of life made them all worth reading.
The first and last mystery were basically Wolfe solving an impossible mystery by cleverly tricking the murderer into exposing self or into letting some critical bit of information out.
The middle mystery was clue-based, and I was headed in the right direction with putting things together.
I felt like I should have guessed whodunit despite a critical clue only coming at the reveal.
lol Overall, these were enjoyable and engaging reads.
I discovered Nero Wolfe through Netflix, yeah, the A&E TV show with Timothy Hutton. I love it and devour them.When I learned that they were based off of books and did some research to make sure the characters were equally clever, I picked them up. I usually detest mystery novels, but this one, this series is wonderful. I can't get enough of the characters who are dynamic and hilarious.I usually classify my favorite genre as gritty whimsy, and this fits the bill perfectly. Gruesome crimes, funny characters, clever stories.I've already gotten two more from the library.
I really enjoyed these 3 tales. Stout is a master at novelettes, keeping them short but not skimping on story or character development. Hard to pick a favorite here, as they were all top notch. In the 1st we get more of Fritz than normal, which is nice. The second story has Archie sort of getting a case on his own, but with Wolfe to assist...and the last tale gives us a murder in Lily Rowan's penthouse apartment.
Another compilation of Stout's novellas, with some strong entries. In the first, Fritz cooks a dinner for a group of gourmets, only to have one of them poisoned. In the second, Archie quits his job and walks out of the house, only to land in the middle of a murder. In the last one, Wolfe takes a rare trip out of the house to have a special dinner at Lily Rowan's penthouse apartment, at which another guest is murdered.
I like Nero Wolfe mystery books. Of course, growing up in the fifties, these books appeal to my nostalgic memories.It's hard to dislike sassy, smart-mouthed Archie Goodwin, Nero's trusted factotum and sometime whipping boy. And, of course, Nero the genius who sits like a fat spider in his office waiting for a wealthy client to help pay for his love of orchids and food.This book contains three novellas, all of which I enjoyed.
Melhor que a anterior obra de Rex Stout que li. Não me interpretem mal, continua a irritar-me o cliché cansativo de os detectives privados como génios e as forças de autoridade como grunhos, mesmo pelo menos a personagens estão menos insonsas e as descrições melhores, talvez por estar dividido em 3 histórias mais pequenas. Fossem os mistérios um pouco mais inteligentes e talvez merecesse 3 Estrelas.
