https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59814.Brazen_Virtue
The two leads had no real chemistry and I was more happy to see the return of Tess and Ben then to spend anytime with the new heroine and hero.Our heroine (Grace McCabe) is a famous murder mystery writer.
This causes Grace to interact more with Kathleen's next door neighbor, DC detective, Ed Jackson.We got to know a little bit about Ed in book #1.
I don't know if it was Ed's insta-love that put me off, or the fact that Grace takes a phone call while at Ed's and talks to his mom off screen about everyone in his family.
I see shades, I see shadows, not quite there, but hints of what an awesome suspense writer Nora Roberts could have been.
Oh, Nora where did you go so wrong?Grace is a best selling mystery author who has come to visit her sister in Washington DC to decompress from the book tour for her latest bestseller.
Kathleen was the perfect sister, but her life is not the stuff of fairy tales.
The two sisters have had conflict their whole lives and Kathleen resents Grace's success.
When Kathleen is murdered, Grace is left with anger, resentment and guilt, and the burning need to find her killer.
3.5 Stars rounded up...This is a re-read for me as I had read this and book #1 Sacred Sins in this series years ago. Whereas I didn't remember much from Sacred Sins, this one I remembered a lot of the story from before. I really liked this book the first time around and the story was memorable. I found it a quick and easy re-read and still enjoyed it the second time around.Ed (Ben's homicide partner from Sacred Sins, book #1) meets Grace when she comes to visit her sister and Ed is the next door
I found it a quick and easy re-read and still enjoyed it the second time around.Ed (Ben's homicide partner from Sacred Sins, book #1) meets Grace when she comes to visit her sister and Ed is the next door neighbor.
I will say that technology is something that can quickly date a book and you can definitely tell this was written a few years back.From a character perspective, Ed is a beta hero which I actually really like.
(If you can't tell I am so over the alpha caveman.) For the most part I liked Grace's character.
Mais uma vez, gostei! Gostei bastante deste segundo volume da série D.C. Detectives e desta nova história que Nora nos traz. Novamente Nora mostra o porquê de ser uma das autoras mais amadas e mais lidas do mundo literário. É que não há volta a dar.Conseguiu trazer-nos personagens cheias de personalidade e cheias de força. Inteligentes e que são capazes de tudo pela justiça e pelo desejo de resolver assuntos e traumas.Opinião Completahttp://sinfoniadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
Giro, giro, giro!! O detective Ed é qualquer coisa!!Se já tinha gostado do anterior, este superou... o Ed é um personagem fantastico e a Grace combina na totalidade com ele. Uma leitura bastante agradavel, este estilo policial da Nora convence-me, nada de profundamente inquietante mas bom o suficiente para manter-mos o interesse.
Así que es una novela romántica de suspenso, un recurso que suele usar Nora Roberts al narrar las historias es dar la identidad del asesino; el lector sabe quien es el asesino desde el principio y toda la trama trascurre en ver como los protagonistas lo descubren y se hace justicia, es un recurso novedoso, algo así como ir tomando los dos extremos de una soga y encontrarnos en el medio en vez de ir de principio a fin.
El asesino es realmente un psicópata y sinceramente no podía tener otro final.
Mi única queja es que el final, si bien correcto, me pareció un poco abrupto.
This was my first Nora Roberts, above and beyond a string of J.D. Robb books I read a few years ago.
I thought the books Nora Roberts wrote under her own name were romances.
How can you call a book a romance when the heroine's sister is killed, and the mystery is catching the serial killer?There was a romantic component, but it seemed secondary to the murder mystery.
And, for me, the romance wasn't ....
I wasn't attracted to the hero, and I had no desire to be the heroine.
Isn't that why most people read romances?
Estou entre o 4 e o 4,5... Faltou, faltou... A força das personagens do anterior, gosto Ed mas é calmo demais, gostei dela mas não é a Tess! Senti falta da pitada de sal e adrenalina do livro anterior mas gostei! ^_^
I'm not much of a fan of policial/crime stories. Nora is Nora and is always good, but it was not thrilling.
Já estava com saudades de ler um livro da Nora e mais uma vez uma história excelente desta autora .Adorei o Ed e a Grace e o romance entre os dois
Perhaps if I'd read this sequel to Sacred Sins back when it was originally published in 1988, I would have felt vastly different about it, because the truth of the matter is, it's difficult for a book of this nature to feel fresh twenty-three years after it was released.A maestro of character study and well conceived plots, a virtuoso of lyrical prose and realistic dialogue, Nora Roberts is a goddess of romantic fiction, and those traits are in evidence in Brazen Virtue.
This is a detective story with a bit of romance thrown in. There were a lot of "smoke and mirrors" or maybe just smoke, since so many of the characters were either smokers or drug users. This takes place in the early days of computers/internet and revolves around a rapist attacking and killing employees of a phone sex company.
I liked Tess & Ben. I liked Ed & Grace. This one was okay but I enjoyed #1 more.
Mostly closed door / fade to black.Hero: Homicide DetectiveHeroine: Author.Trigger: Drug taking of BadGuy. Rape and murder of secondary characters.A more intense romantic-suspense where we can see how quickly Roberts progressed in her writing.
The plot is more cohesive with a satisfactorily complex storyline, interesting characters and solid suspense.
It’s lovely to see such a good, modern relationship with an independent, strong heroine and a hero who, while wanting to care for and nurture his woman accepts that Grace isn’t going to be that woman and supports her choices.
if I had to describe this book, I would go with a mixture of Criminal Minds and Desperate Housewives. Imagine this story as one of the episodes, one of those which are just like so many others. There's nothing new in here. There's even no surprise at all since we know before hand who the killer is and it's so predictable how the story will go on...The characters were nice to follow, and the writting is good, but the plot is just mmeehhh~~
Um bocado morno o romance entre o Ed e a Grace, achei-a engraçada em alguns momentos, estava a espera de mais do Jackson! Foi bom rever o casal anterior!
The storyline is not as strong as Sacred Sins.
Mais um romance super fofinho com personagens super carismáticas e um belo psicopata à mistura.Descobri apenas que fazia parte da Duologia apenas a meio do livro, quando o vim registar aqui e descobri também que tenho o primeiro volume, mas funciona muito bem como livro independente.
Perfeita e super engraçada, o que faz com que a relação da Grace e da Tess e com elas seja ainda mais engraçada.Agora resta-me ler o primeiro volume e desesperar porque não sei como vão continuar as personagens.

Nora Roberts es una de mis autoras favoritas de romance y misterio. Sus novelas siempre te enganchan rápidamente y la autora sabe distribuir de buena manera las dosis de suspenso para que no te separes de la lectura. Atrapada es una novela fácil de leer, con personajes encantadores y situaciones delicadas que pueden afectar a cualquier ser humano en la vida real. ¡Recomendada!
Great read, but not quite as exciting as a lot of Nora's work.
This is a short and enjoyable little read, but different than many of her crime thrillers.
There weren't a whole lot of characters and the book seemed to take place only in one house and the Police Station.
I'm not being critical of Nora, I love her.
It's just that all of her other books I've read were so good, it's hard to live up to them!
Even with the minor flaws I mentioned, it's definitely worth the time to read.
Reviewed ItHave always loved Nora Roberts’ work. While this book is different from the others I’ve read I enjoyed the fast paced suspense and the sweet romance.
De boeken van Nora Roberts blijven voor mij een plezier om lezen,alweer een goed uitgewerkt verhaal met leuke personages. Een mooi evenwicht tussen romantiek en spanning.
It was an ok book, showing Roberts promise as a good storyteller but the characters felt flat to me. Maybe I would have liked it better in 1988 when it was published, but I was busy graduating from high school and somehow missed this one until now.
Ben Paris aparece mucho, es como si la trama fuera compartida (la policial) quizá sea porque trabajan juntos pero Ben aparece tanto como Ed, lo seguro es que habla más que Ed. Me voy desilusionada.
Aunque me sorprendió que Roberts pusiera a dos policías a resolver el caso, acostumbrada de libros anteriores a que fueran civiles los que juntaran pistas, investigaran, interrogaran testigos.
"Los civiles no se pueden inmiscuir en las investigaciones, Grace.
Quizás de ahí en adelante, empezó a desconfiar del trabajo policial y empezó a dejar que civiles se las arreglaran con lo que tenían.
Incrível como fui pegar no segundo livro de uma duologia sem me aperceber disso, hem?
Claro que agora tenho de pegar no primeiro livro, não é?
Como dá para perceber, este é um livro que se lê bem sozinho, sendo mais um romance com crime da Nora Roberts.
Os dois protagonistas são personagens interessantes se bem que gostava que tivessem uma maior complexidade.
Gostei da forma como a autora explorou a relação entre Grace e a sua irmã Kathleen, mas gostava que houvesse um maior desenvolvimento da vida da segunda.
Havia ali pano para mais mangas.
often brutal, almost disturbingly so.
It felt like Nora Roberts felt like she had something to prove, right before she started to branch off to the In Death series for a more comprehensive murderous tale.There was an actual spoiler, which they actually managed to keep out of the back copy, and which almost gave me a brain hemorrhage.
Unique not only to romance-thrillers but, I think, even to Nora Roberts.This was well-written, of course -- I'd only be surprised if it weren't.
Les recomiendo este libro.
Si leyeron "Polos opuestos" y lo disfrutaron, este les va a encantar.
Volverán a encontrarse con Ben y Tess y descubrirán cómo han sido las cosas entre ellos luego del final del primer libro de la serie.
Pero también disfrutaran mucho más a Ed Jackson, un policía cariñoso, dulce que tiene un corazón tiernísimo recubierto en un cuerpo enorme, que inspira más respeto del necesario.Una historia de amor que me encantó, con una protagonista femenina sin vueltas, fresca y espontánea que encuentra el amor en medio del dolor provocado por la locura de un asesino serial.¡Me gustó!Leer reseña completa
This sequel to SACRED SINS shows how much Roberts learned between the two books about engaging the reader.
Bestselling mystery author Grace McCabe loses her sister Kathy to a murderer.
Kathy was supplementing her income by offering phone sex via Fantasy, Inc, and that is how her killer found her ...
The same team who solved SACRED SINS works this case, with Grace adding her inimitable style.Grace is the main POV character, an engaging and dedicated woman who has some characteristics Nora Roberts must have.
The prolific-with-a-capital-p Roberts doesn't write about authors with writer's block.
SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW!!This book is the sequel to Sacred Sins.
It was great catching up with the characters in the first book.
This book was really good, and I liked it better than the first one to be honest.
What happens to Ed and Grace?
I just can't believe it ended with Grace shooting Jerald, Ed runs in a few seconds later, Jerald says some crazy things, they watch him die, and then....the end.
Nothing further about Ed or Grace, or if she moves on from Kathleen.
Very disappointing and rushed ending, so I'm giving it three instead of four stars.
