https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15050.Sexing_the_Cherry
I suspect that her short novels should be read again as soon as you have added another one to your repertoire, because there are recurring themes and (fruity) flavours that are definitely part of Winterson's general narrative."Sexing the Cherry" is all about the strange correlation between past, present and future, and the way human beings navigate time and space, physically and in their imagination.
Until the comments stopped abruptly after 31 pages, leaving me to guess whether my co-reader gave up or finally got sucked into the story and stopped wondering about the different topics thrown together in a creative mix.What really annoyed me was the comment next to the sentence:"I have seen a banana." My reading partner underlined the fruit and wrote: "Penis!" Well, yes.
Jeannette Winterson is one of my all-time favorite writers and I'm constantly recommending this slim book.
For what it lacks in girth, the book makes up for in substance.
I have never more furiously scribbled passages down in my journal for future reference.The story itself is entertaining enough to merit the book worth a read.
The premise is reminiscent of a Brother's Grimm fairy tale - you know, back when fairy tales were sort of dark, creepy, and a little scary, before Disney got its hands on them.But it's Winterson's introspection on love and relationships, their possibilities and their limits, conveyed deftly through her inventive fables, that make me love this book.
Date 15 January 23rd JanuaryTime 19:00 – 20.15Location : The BoxExcerpt from interview with P BryantDetective Munch : Thing is, my literary friend, you got no proof.PB : Proof?Det Munch : Anyone can invent an identity and claim to have read like a zillion books and then post up fake reviews.
When they notice, it’s important.Det Pembleton : So we see that you reviewed this Jeanette Winterson novel here, er, “Sexing The Cherry”, and awarded it a whole two stars, I mean, come on buddy, where’s your proof that you even read this damn thing?
All were slightly touched by magic--elegant dancers because they were born with the capability to fly, and were finally able to find their own joy, rather than live in a world that sought to restrict the natural, magical freedom of their hearts and their bodies.Yet the characters in this novel still seem to desire love, as I believe we all do.
The humor and grittiness of the plot, as well as the insightful explorations of time, space, matter, meaning, love, and life make this short novel as rewarding as it is dense, while still effortless to read.This book leaves me more peaceful in the face of complexity in the world.
It had all the components of "music": instruments, notes, pauses, a musician behind the scenes who determined how the people playing the instruments were to perform.
I read the review on the back of the CD case which described the musicians, their instruments, its post-modern interpretation and why it was supposed to be musical.
I read the blurbs on the back of the book, the reviews here at Goodreads and on Amazon, online on blogs and forums, and even what the author herself said about her post-modern piece of literature.
Elimden dusurmeden okudum. Ozellikle Ingiliz kulturunu ve tarihini birazcik taniyorsaniz keyifle okuyabileceginiz ilginc ve surukleyici bir kitap.
Sometimes I think I would like to write a letter of thanks to Jeanette Winterson.
The letter would go something like this, "Thank you, Ms. Winterson, for being so magical.
Thank you for holding on to the play of childhood and mingling it with a breadth of creative intelligence I never knew existed.
Thank you for reading as much as you do and for deploying history in new and invigorating ways.
Thank you for playing with your narratives, changing your characters into hyperboles of their human selves, and ducking back into reality with the seamlessness of silk.
Thank you for writing.
A very rewarding reading experience!My favorite quote:“The Buddhists say there are 149 ways to God. I'm not looking for God, only for myself, and that is far more complicated. God has had a great deal written about Him; nothing has been written about me. God is bigger, like my mother, easier to find, even in the dark. I could be anywhere, and since I can't describe myself I can't ask for help.”
Winterson kendi yazmış olduğu önsözünde diyor ki; "öykülerin de kendi kendilerini değiştirmek gibi bir özelliği vardır ve okumak özgürlüktür, bir dizi kural değil." Bu vesileyle "katı" cisimlerden oluşmuş dünyaya meydan okuyor kalemiyle.
Zamanla."Vişnenin Cinsiyeti"nin ne hakkında olduğunun hiç bir önemi yok aslında.
Okuyucu bağlamındaysa özgür irademizle, hiç kimsenin tesiri altında kalmadan anlayacağız ki bir çocuk bir kadının kalbini kıracak ve bunu onu sevmesini sağlayarak yapacak.
Zaman, içinde bir ileri bir geri gittiğimiz düşlerimizdeki gibi içimizde hareket ederken, bütün karşılaştıklarımızın bir parçası oldığumuzu, bütün karşılaştıklarımızın da bizim bir parçamız olduğunu anlayacağız.
Zamanla değil bir anda sevilen bir yazar var karşımızda.
Kitaba büyük merak ve beklenti ile başlasam da birkaç sayfa sonra beklentimin boşa olduğunu anladım. Bir kere biçim ve içerik konusunda, dilin kullanımı (belki çeviriden de kaynaklıdır bilemiyorum) konusunda bence ciddi sıkıntılar var. Masallları, fantastik olayları hikayeye yedirmek göründüğü kadar kolay bir meziyet değil sanırım. Çünkü yazar bunu başaramadığı takdirde karmakarışık bir anlatı çıkıyor ortaya. Gerçi burada yazarın yapmak istediği de biraz bu aslında yani biraz karmaşa yaratmak ama bundan keyif alan okuyucular için zevkli bir okuma sunuyor. Bense sanırım bu tarz anlatımı pek sevemediğimden keyif alamadım. Benim için çok tekdüze bir ritmi vardı.Metnin kurgusu örgüsü anlatımı bana keyif vermedi.
We see moments in the lives of various characters: the Dog Woman, a coarse giant of a woman who is continually reforming her murderous ways; Jordan, her son, who she found floating in the Thames; Nicholas Jordan, a naval cadet; as well as various characters from myths and fairy tales.The story is structured so that it moves back and forth through time, sometimes with the characters meeting and interacting in ways that would be impossible in reality.
The future and the present and the past exist only in our minds, and from a distance the borders of each shrink and fade like the borders of hostile countries seen from a floating city in the sky.
Painfully pretentious and drowning in a mess of its failed aspirations, it's always a bad thing when an author becomes too fond of the sound of their own voice.
While arguably intelligent she lacks the poetic ability required to pull off a style like this, using language which distracts and detracts from the world she is struggling to present.
A great shame, because there would otherwise be a lot here to like; curious and observant visions wrapped in a fantasy motif.
Sadly, it is a book that systematically fails on just about every level.
Winterson is an acquired taste, but she's definitely "my taste" This book is set in England, and the story jumps back and forth in time.
Doing this definitely worked, and I think it helped support the main story rather well.
It involves characters that cannot express the love that is controlling them, and eventually leading down the path of heartbreak.There is a hilarious scene nearing the end, where the dog woman recalls when she slept with a man.
Based on the fact the dog woman is a fairly large woman, the man complains in great vulgarity, that she is just "too big" downstairs to satisfy him.
yazar hanım baya muazzam iş çıkarmış. kitap boyu gerçeği bükmüş arada da felsefi sorular sormuş. değişik bir deneyim oldu benim açımdan.
The juxtaposition of the stories of the giant woman living on the banks of the Thames with her dogs and her adopted son who is drawn to exploring the world in the mid 1600s was interesting.
too many loose connections -- like the fact that Jordan, the male narrator, may have wings he has never used.
An attempt at fantasy and fabulism that is not quite good enough to measure up to the work of someone like Angela Carter or an attempt to show as the narrative of the book falls apart that so is our world, something done more skillfully by John Barth.
possibly my absolute favorite book of all time. I want jeanette winterson to read me a bedtime story every night. I didn't know how much I could worship an author before I read this. It's short but potent, and thoroughly infused with her wit. Please please read it, it's wonderful.
She happily intertwines reality with fantasy, creating worlds that seems so real, although magical things happen there (while reading I thought that Haruki Murakami’s style does something similar with my imagination) and finally she touches upon subjects that are not popular at all, her way of depicting women is simply beautiful.So yes, I loved the parts of the book.
So maybe that’s my problem and mine alone but somewhere in the middle of the book I lost the connection and although it was a pleasant read till the end, I hoped for something more.I will definitely read more of Winterson in the future and I recommend that to all of you, there are not many authors like that, I’m afraid.
But Jordan, having been ‘born’ of the river, belongs to the river, and it isn’t long before the flowing waters reclaim him once again, as he sets of with sails to travel the world.The book is told with alternating narratives, first Jordan, then the mother, then Jordan again and so forth.
His richest experiences are in his dreams, as he travels to places not yet known to him, but which he believes to perhaps truly exist.Having dreamt of a beautiful dancer once, he then sets off in search of this elusive character.
Nicholas Jordan is also a dreamer, someone who dreams of sailing and travelling the world, and to do so he decides he wants to join the army.
I think I need to go reread some parts of this book, or at least think it over again because I am so darn confused.But as for what I did understand, there are parts of this book that are bewitching, and then there are parts that drag so much it is as if there is no life in them.This was a vintage twin set, basically I got the book for free along with Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.
So I guess I'll spend tonight thinking about all these confusing parts, and just how this is a monster book that connects to Frankenstein.
I really wanted to enjoy this book and whilst I appreciate that it is written very well in a literary sense, it did not appeal to me at all.
The relentless misandry made it quite a boring read, despite its short length.
I could see flashes of brilliance in this book (the dancing princesses, the character of dog-woman), however none of it was fleshed out to any sort of degree to make me want to read on.
I can't help thinking that if it were a little longer and the relentless male bashing toned down I'd have enjoyed it more, but then that wasn't probably the authors aim.
Karşı Masal türü nedir, nasıl yazılır? İşte bu kitap tam olarak bunun rehberi.Cümlelerin çift anlamlılığı, üzerinde düşünmeye teşviği, her masalın mutlu sonla bitmediğini klasik masallar üzerinden göstermesi, ebeyn olmak, evlat olmak ve nicesi üzerine psikanaliz tadında bir roman. Türünün (karşı masalın) en kaynak gösterilesi eserlerinden.Benim için özel bir kitap. Okuyalı epey oldu, ama bir ara tekrar okumam gerek. Eminim bu tekrar okumada görmediğim başka şeyler göreceğim.
nu ii mai dau nici o sansa. Sunt prea multe carti de citit si prea putin timp. Pana la 13% nu am gasit nici o logica la carte, decat niste metafore/comparatii parca rupte din definitiile de la careurile netematice de la Flacara.
And every time I would get frustrated with the jumps in setting/year and the shifting perspectives (not just Jordan, the foundling, and his mother, the dog-woman and murderer, but also the twelve dancing princesses and others), I would be struck by a pearl of wisdom so precious that it made all of the other shortcomings of the book worthwhile.
If you like surrealism (which is what I would call "Sexing the Cherry" more than Magic Realism), you might enjoy this one.
This book is utterly beautiful.
Winterson has an incredibly gifted talent of writing the most magical prose.
I was utterly in awe, and a teeny bit jealous of her superbly written imaginative tales of the princess's who lived happily ever after, (just not with their husbands), the twisted reality of Sixteenth Century England, (taking a fair amount of time commenting on the battle between Cromwell's republican Commonwealth and the already established monarchy), not to mention throwing in detailed philosophical comments about time, alternate realities, space, the use of gravity, and of course, flying through the sky to exotic countries on the back of an elephant.
Poate 2 * 1/2.Nu mi-a plăcut mai nimic la cartea asta.
Din păcate, nu mi-am făcut temele ca lumea, știam că vreau să citesc o carte de JW cu ceva fruct în titlu, dar era vorba de portocale, nu de cireși...
Mhh. Portocalele rămîn pe listă, romanele ei, dacă sînt în genul Sexului cireșilor, nu mersi, nu mă pasionează.Cartea mi s-a părut scrisă slăbuț, scăldate 17 stiluri, putea mai mult, nu știu exact ce nu mi-a plăcut.
Da nu de la mine.JW, ne vedem la ceva autobiografic, bine?PS Zero typos, wow.
:) #humanitas #sepoate (citesc întîmplător tot ceva de la Humanitas acum și am găsit cîteva typos deja.)
Packed with odd sexual encounters (although not as pornographic as the title suggested) and murders contradicting some of its religious themes and tone of justice, the inclusion of time and love as concepts did not seem enough to tie everything Winterson was trying to say in this novel of attachments, outcast characters, known mythologies and fragments of histories reimagined with reflective feminism to boot.
Moreover, I also can't ignore the fact that Winterson has used the phrase "Time is a great deadener." thrice in three different novels — spare me with this glaring reality some time.
Both of them could have used a ladder, but they were in love.One day the prince, who had always liked to borrow his mother's frocks, dressed up as Rapunzel's lover and dragged himself into the tower.
Then he carried Rapunzel down the rope he had brought with him and forced her to watch while he blinded her broken lover in a field of thorns.After that they lived happily ever after, of course.As for me, my body healed, though my eyes never did, and eventually I was found by my sisters, who had come in their various ways to live on this estate.My own husband?Oh well, the first time I kissed him he turned into a frog.There he is, just by your foot.
4.5 Absolutely amazing. Best read of 2017.
I push them around in my mouth just to feel them form, again and again.This book is something of a loose mixture of historical fiction, sci-fi time-travel lit, brutal Brothers-Grimm style fairy tale, and classic ghost story -- with a meaty dose of feminist perspective thrown in for good measure.
But even when she's making you cringe and recoil, Winterson is masterful.This is a great book for those who enjoy a warped journey, for those who aren't sticklers for linear story-telling and singular narrative voices.
You're not likely to enjoy it.
Wah. Some of Winterson's works make me feel as if I completely missing out on something, like it's going straight over my head.
Rather like some people wouldn't understand some of my coded journal entries, like when I'm waffling about something that makes sense to me because it's in my head and I created it, but anyone else- good luck.I liked parts of this book.
I was swept away by certain paragraphs, feeling as if I could almost smell and taste her descriptions.I'd like to re-read it and try and get my head around the rest, but there's so many other books that I'd actually love to read.
