https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183114.The_Happy_Valley_Mystery
I read every book in this series in middle school....but I can't remember whether Dan became a "real' member of the group or not.
My guess -- the book was written at the same time as Black Jacket Mystery by another author....and the few sentences giving Dan an excuse for not being there were added for continuity, leaving poor Dan at home sitting through tutoring sessions while his "friends' gallivanted off into the Iowa countryside without a backward glance to look for disappearing sheep.
I can't believe I missed out on the budding romance between Trixie and Jim!
On the other hand, it's more of a 3.5 star rating, because that romance is handled pretty awkwardly.
She's realistically torn between wanting to be more traditionally feminine like Di and Honey and wanting to be herself, but it's, again, very awkwardly portrayed, and there's an underlying sense that she ought to be traditionally feminine even though Jim and...can't remember his name, the young man they befriend...both tell her they're attracted to the girl she is, the one who can shoot free throws better than most of the guys.
Where else can you read words like "gleeps" and "jalopy" and smile at the memories?
As a teen I remember reading this one and feeling a connection to them because I grew up in Wisconsin and have visited Iowa.
;-) There is a wealth of information in this book as the teens visit a sheep farm.
Instead of Robert Fulgram's "Everything I need to know I learned in Kindergarten" my motto is "Everything I learned about life was from Trixie Belden."The Bob-whites help solve a crime with sheep stealing, but Honey, Jim, and Trixie find themselves in real trouble...and their rescue always gives me chills when they are rescued.
Okay, so this is the book where it is confirmed: Jim is in love with Trixie. xD The mystery was not very well-rounded, the ending seemed a bit rushed, however I loved the parts about the parties and when Jim almost calls Trixie his girlfriend but then catches himself. Oh, and obviously THE ENDINGGGGG <3 Four stars out of five.
But as soon as Trixie hears that her uncle's sheep have been disappearing at regular intervals, she knows that she and the Bob Whites have another job to do...and another mystery to solve.
Once she and her fellow Bob Whites are rescued, she convinces her uncle's manager to send the police after the crooks and saves the day for Uncle Andrew's farm.This was one of my all-time favorite Trixie Belden stories when I was growing up.
It was a lot of fun to visit again with Trixie and the Bob Whites.
The ninth book in the Trixie Belden series, and another trip away for the BWG’s.
I’m not sure what it is about the books when the characters are away from Sleepyside-on-Hudson but I find the characters they meet generally quite horrid.
The Gorman’s, who were meant to be the parental homely-type farm folk who are looking after the BWG’s on the Belden’s uncles farm were pretty much awful for most of the book.Everyone spent most of the book making fun of or being mean to Trixie and yeah, that wasn’t enjoyable.
What I did like was the end of the book – that had to be the most action-packed finish to a Trixie Belden book to date.
I'm waiting for my hold on this one to come in...1/3/11The book arrived, and it was a little cheesier than the rest (aka I snorted when I read the last two lines). I want to recheck the Trixie Belden fan website I found to see which ghost writer is suspected for this one...I hope she didn't write too many!
This was my favourite Trixie Belden book as a kid, largely because I was a die-hard Trixie/Jim shipper, and this is THE book if you sail that ship. As an adult, it doesn't live up to the standards of the Julie Campbell novels, but it's still a fun read.
I don't know why I especially like this one in the series ... perhaps the travel, perhaps because Iowa is closer to my "back yard" ... anyway, I've always liked this one. September 2013 ... read again ... one of my favorites, but I don't really know why. I really enjoy this story.
This is the one I read over and over and over. Jim and Trixie hold hands on the airplane.
Book 9. This book ticked me off. In book 8 Dan was introduced and I had a HUGE girly crush on him. And he was LEFT BEHIND in this one!
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
Well, aside from the characters who are new in this book, and were presumably making Biblical references before the Bob-Whites arrived.- The Obligatory Romance Subplot is at least handled a little more subtly than in The Mysterious Code.
Trixie has obviously internalized the idea that being a tomboy is bad and reproaches herself for it all the time, which makes me sad, but I like that she tries some new things and then decides what she's comfortable with.
When a local boy she meets tries to police her from the opposite perspective and says that he was interested in her until she started acting like a girl and makes unfavorable comparisons with Honey and Di, Trixie shuts him right down.
Just like all other Trixie Belden books, The Happy Valley Mystery was suspenseful and cleverly written.
I love this series because it's right in the middle of "too confusing to understand" and "so easy that I could figure it out myself." I think this book is more realistic because normally, Trixie and Honey find a clue or two their first day on the job.
In this book I really found Trixie annoying.
If you have read this series before, then you will like this one.
There is a part in the book that takes up a couple of chapters that are really suspenseful.
(Spoilers ahead.)I really enjoyed the last book, no.
8, mainly because of a certain character named DAN.
Why is he shuffled off to the side right at the beginning of the book?
WHERE IS MY NEW FAVORITE CHARACTER?
I'm suffering from character withdrawal, y'all.
Is he going to be in ANY book in the future?
Anyway, it was a decent book other than the fact that Dan wasn't there.
The Bobwhites had a few out-of-character moments, just as I've noticed in all of the post-Julie-Campbell books.
It was just out of the blue.And by the way, I know that Dan will eventually show up again...
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– 1962.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden, Honey, Jim, Diana, and her brothers work to catch the sheep thieves on Trixie's Uncle's ranch in Iowa.
After a few false leads, she, Jim, and Honey finally catch the thieves, as well as a lost puppy.Notes for the reader: A great mystery!
It shows the closeness of the friends and just how precious life and love and family and friendship really is!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE-READ~November 27, 20135 Stars Even though [of course] I knew what was going to happen, it was still a great and exciting read.
And being older, I pick up more references to the time period that I surely skipped over when I was younger because I didn't know what they were talking about.
:-)Trixie gets them in a HUGE mess this time and it almost causes a tragedy they would never recover from.
Excellent read about friendship, family and the power of determination!
I have entered my 2nd or is it 3rd childhood and started reading Trixie Belden again.
As a child I liked Nancy Drew better but as an adult I find Nancy Drew too one dimensional.
I like the Belden clan.
All of the characters are fun and have a true sense of family values and loyalty.
It is fun getting to know them more with each book.
The mysteries are always interesting without being too over the top.
I like the fact that the mystery was set at a new location, the Belden kids Uncles farm.
During this adventure, Trixie and the Bob-Whites are headed for Iowa to the Belden's Uncle Andrew's farm - Happy Valley Farm.When they arrive, they discover Uncle Andrew's sheep have been disappearing.
Being the detective that she is, Trixie is determined to find out what's going on.
These sheep end up being major trouble for the Bob-Whites.In another storyline, Trixie impresses a boy, Ned Schulz, with her basketball skills.
The gang also meets twins Barbara and Bob Hubbell and Trixie becomes jealous of a pretty girl's interest in Jim. That green-eyed monster is finally rearing its ugly head ...
When the gang go off to visit Uncle Andrew on Happy Valley Farm, Trixie immediately butts her nose in to try and find out who is stealing his precious sheep.
After a few disastrous false accusations, and Trixie making wild statements all over the place, Trixie, Jim, and Honey are stranded in the middle of a flood in the few actual minutes of tension in the book.
This was probably about the only part of the book that was actually good, as the resolution to the mystery came about in the most ridiculous of ways, though the touching scene of Mart finding his sister definitely gets a thumbs up!
The Bob-whites are off to Iowa to visit the Belden's uncle's farm. They go for spring break to have a good time, but Trixie is only interested in finding out who is stealing her uncles sheep! The Bob-whites have tons of fun and dances and skating, but run into trouble when a huge flood hits area and Trixie, Honey and Jim are trapped. Will the gang rescue them and find out who has been stealing Uncle Belden's sheep before they have to return home?
Trixie Belden and the Happy Valley Mystery is book number nine in the Trixie Belden mystery series. Trixie Belden and Honey Wheeler are best friends, horse lovers, and detectives who always seem to accidentally find a mystery waiting to be solved. In this book, the pair find themselves at Trixie's Uncle Andrew's farm, trying to find the sheep that have suddenly gone missing.I love the Trixie Belden Mystery Series because it combines two of my favorite things - - horses and mystery!
While visiting her Uncle Andrew, Trixie decides to find the sheep thieves who are targeting the farms in the area. I liked this book as a kid, but I find it annoying now. Trixie says, "It's because too much of the story is narrated via dialogue! And because all of us seem to speak in exclamation points!!!!"Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
The Bob-Whites (minus Dan...of course) go to Iowa to visit the Beldens' Uncle Andrew on his sheep farm. Loved the setting, though the basketball game, dance, and ice skating never appealed to me. I was all about the mystery in this one. And the collies, Tip and Tag. I always wanted a collie. Too much "Lassie" growing up.
It's hard to write reviews for each book in this series, since it's been about 20 years since I read them and there's almost 40 books in the series...but, I did truly love this series. Obviously, since I'm still thinking enough about it to put them all on my Goodreads list!
Not one of my favorite Trixie Storylines. The pluses for me were the fact that the bob-whites leave town & are in the worst fix they've found themselves yet (near the end of the book), but I found the storyline overall to be slow & dull. Would borrow this book or check out at library or skip.
The Bob Whites perform very important work at a sheep farm in Iowa. The farm will probably go bankrupt without the Bob Whites -- trufax. And then Trixie gets jealous and Jim gives her an ID bracelet to prove his luuuurve.Ha ha -- skates in the MAIL!
Reread this to my daughter. The mystery plotline felt a little haphazard, mixed with the kids just having fun visiting Iowa, but I really loved the tense scenes with the flood at the end. Any scene that sticks in your head for thirty years is pretty good.
Sheep farm in Iowa? What have I gotten myself into?Update: Fun kitsch read, but I'll never be a Bob-White. I'm happy to be fully prepped, though, for Mystery of the Blinking Eye."I think - this - is - the - toughest spot we've - ever - been - in."
