https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84352.The_Importance_of_Living
I am going to bail on this book.
I have been reading a few pages at a time for about 4 months now, and while it's a nice, calming book about different philosophies in China and other countries around the world, with the view that people should slow down and enjoy their world, apparently this advice is just for men.
He wrote this book in 1933, and I am too much a modern women to agree with outdated views.
Not going to rate it, but I will count it as a finished book since I read over half of it.
Maybe then you will better understand Lin Yutang’s wisdom: “Those who are wise won’t be busy, and those who are too busy can’t be wise.” If you are happy here and now, wherever you are, in whatever state you are, and you are truly content with what you have, you place living above thinking, and are interested in savouring the feast of life and its joys, then this witty philosophical treatise on the art of living in its entirety is the book for you.
This book is like sitting around with your grandfather while he shares his thoughts about everything under the sun, so long as your father is a witty, erudite, philosophically inclined Chinese man.
The rest of the book is highly personal, and Yutang provides prescriptions for a life well-lived, prescriptions that cover virtually everything you could imagine, as the small subset of chapter headings above suggests.
I didn't love this book as much as I anticipated from the chapters, and even when I did enjoy it, it often seemed long-winded.
Lin Yutang, Rumi, Martin Buber, Lao T'se, Jesus, Buddha, Rabindranath Tagore, Gandhi...these are the words that can heal our troubled world.
For my money, the most important part of "The Importance of Living" is where he discusses, at some length, the non-soldier, and all the good and necessary qualities contained therein.
As Erich Fromm once said: "Civilization began with an act of disobedience, and is likely to end in an act of obedience." Lin Yutang, Rumi, Martin Buber, Lao T'se, Jesus, Buddha, Rabindranath Tagore, Gandhi.
Libraries and bookstores are filled with books praising soldiers and dutiful followers.
Having just finished this book, I would say that this is probably one of the most beautiful books I've read.
Lin Yutang has the soul of an artist and the taste of a connoisseur and through his strongly subjective, yet entirely 'reasonable' opinions and style of writing, I found myself very easily carried away into his points of view on life, the arts, philosophy and the love of pleasure.
I don't agree with everything he says, but the fact that it is so unashamedly subjective makes it all the more beautiful.
Mấy bữa về quê vào vườn ở quên, chiều chiều gió mát thổi, tiếng lá của cây sao xào xạc làm mình nhớ đến những bài văn, bài thơ tiểu học ngôn ngữ tượng thanh, tượng hình và hàm xúc; bất giác mình nghĩ: 'những cảm xúc nên thơ lạ không chỉ có ở trong thơ văn' (sắp già tới nơi cmn rồi :D).
Tác giả là người đề cao chủ nghĩa cá nhân, xem trọng tình cảm gia đình, thích cuộc sống nhàn tản, hưởng đời trong nhiều cái thú xoay quanh chữ "NHÀN": ăn uống, nhàn đàm, uống rượu, ngâm thơ, trà đạo, du lịch, đọc sách, viết văn...
Written in 1936 it is historically embedded in its time so some of his views appear somewhat anachronistic, especially around women, but that aside the book offers a philosophy of life that is in contrast to the Western way of life which values efficiency, punctuality and a desire for achievement and success.
In other words, our minds still retain the aimless, fumbling quality of simian intelligence" Instead of the Western aim of developing a critical thinking mind in dealing with human affairs, Yutang suggests that we should cultivate a "spirit of reasonableness", educating our senses and our emotions rather than our ideas.I do like his unpretentious view of philosophy.
Ma sain selle läbi!!! Ja see oli super! Tegemist küll filosoofilise raamatuga, aga mitte sellisega, mis oleks raske ja keeruline lugeda. Mõnus, lihtne, tabav. Muidugi kõiges ma ei nõustunud autoriga :D, aga ka need kohad olid head lugeda. Kui tundub, et vähegi tahaks lugeda midagi filosoofilist, aga veidi kardad, siis see on alustuseks väga hea valik.Ja seekord ma tsitaate välja ei toogi. Neid on nii palju, et raamat on kleepse täis :D Loe ja leia omad! Igal juhul soovitan!Aitäh soovitajale ja aitäh kinkijale :)
My first book read after retiring was The Importance of Living by Lin Yutang. I enjoyed the easy going stories in the old Chinese scholar perspective. How to relax, smoke and make a proper pot of tea. I recommend this book for the point in life when slowing down is permissible and possible.
If I had judged this book based on the first three chapters alone, I would have given it a poor rating.
But in Chapter 4, the book finally seems to find its way.
Chapter 4 is "On Being Human," and it's at this point that Yutang begins to write about the book's overall theme: the importance of living.Throughout the book I found many sentences and passages worth highlighting and sharing.
For example, in Chapter 12-I, Yutang criticizes the standardization of education and the rote memorization of names, dates, and facts.
Not really an interest of mine, and I don't know the flowers he names, so any value was lost on me.Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book.
The closest he has to a thesis is probably, "be reasonable." I can trace a line from Montaigne through Lin to Wil Wheaton's admonishment, "Don't be a dick."Lin was a popularizer of Chinese thought and culture to Americans, and a fair amount of this book is framed as "explaining how the Chinese mind sees things." I take this with a very large grain of salt and mostly chalk it up to a successful publicity angle; I fully believe that the Chinese figures Lin cites said and thought what he conveys, but it seems clear to me that it is his own idiosyncratic set of intellectual influences--which is fine by me, and even preferable, to any more objective attempt to characterize "the" point of view of such a huge and ancient civilization.Lin is an arch-humanist, and a kindred spirit to Epicurus and Baloo the Bear.
I'd wholly recommend this to anyone who feels like they need direction and quelling of their anxiety about life.
The only reason I'm giving this 4 stars is because it is outdated in societal terms, particular in the views of women.
As a person of principle I can't 'forgive' these views even if they are of a man of a previous generation.
But the prose concerning beauty, nature and religion it is quintessentially Chinese and has really opened my eyes into reading more Chinese/East Asian literature.
It follows a simple philosophy of helping one to merely love life through all its flaws.
I regard the discovery of one’s favorite author as the most critical event in one’s intellectual development. -Lin YutangMy exposure to Chinese culture and philosophy comes, these days, through my experiences with Tai Chi Chuan and various other martial arts and Qigong. This study brings me close to many Chinese and Taiwanese people. None are more gracious, accepting, and friendly. I appreciate how their culture blends into ours so seamlessly.Lin Yutang’s The Importance of Living is, to me, the
I appreciate how their culture blends into ours so seamlessly.Lin Yutang’s The Importance of Living is, to me, the best exploration of this blending and this contrast between our two peoples.He is an essayist, writer, philosopher, linguist, and a cultural critic, among other many talents.
From his table of contents get a quick feel of what you will experience: Approach to Life, Spirit and Flesh, On Being Mortal, On Having a Mind, On Human Dignity, On the Sense of Humor, How About Human Pleasure, On Growing Old Gracefully, On Conversation, The Art of Reading, The Art of Writing, and last but not least, The Return to Common Sense…The best peek at this work is the blurb on the book’s cover: ‘The Classic Bestseller that Introduced Millions to the Noble Art of Leaving Things Undone.’You will laugh.
Though much like any out of touch grandfather I didn't agreed with all Yutang's ramblings it was nevertheless fascinating.
The best way to explain it is that lovely quote from Hector in The History Boys:"The best moments in reading are when you come across something – a thought, a feeling, a way of looking at things – which you had thought special and particular to you.
And it is as if a hand has come out and taken yours."Round the end of the book Yutang mentions that he was raised a very strict Christian and only encountered Chinese culture as an adult.
Lin Yutang's book is slightly hard to classify, if only because, as he admits, he's writing a book about Chinese culture and academic history which he doesn't intend to be taken as especially scholarly or serious in large part.
Lin Yutang has one of the most amusing writing styles I've ever run across - he never really convinces you of what he is saying so much as states it in such a charming and leisurely way that you'd feel rude to disagree.
I taught a few chapters from this book in a class this summer, so actually going back and reading the book itself was a lot of fun.
I'm putting this back on my "to read" list because there's just no way I want to read this book in any fly by night way.
It's almost 500 pages and has the most wonderfully named chapters--"On Having a Mind" and "Cynicism, Folly and Camouflage" and a whole section on "The Importance of Loafing." This is a book made for long, lazy days, to be savored and read slowly with lots of time in between for contemplation.
As whimsical and wonderful as this writing is, the book is a tomb I just don't have the brain power or time to savor.

I didn't like this bookthe writer underestimates the human mindand makes it nothinghe describes us badly and makes us like animals
Rather disappointingly,the majority of this book consisted of sweeping statements, sexist comments and outdated/inaccurate comparisons.
The first chapter of the book pointed out that author felt that the Chinese attitude towards life is, in essence, very similar to that of the French.Some of the author's opinion on social issues and scientific development are clearly dated, because the book was written in the 1930's.
Just go to Pinterest and chat only with people that share your views.Besides some of the dated social commentaries, there are places where the author went overboard with historical and literary references.
This is what it means to read into a man through his work.And perhaps it is that I have simply fallen for one of Lin Yutang's central thoughts: that we can find those select authors with whom we become fast friends, though separated by mountains and the river of time.
For in a very real sense, these spirits have been with me, in the only form of spiritual communion that I recognize as real - when two men separated by the ages think the same thoughts and sense the same feelings and each perfectly understands the other." Put another way: "I regard the discovery of one's favorite author as the most critical event in one's intellectual development.
I found his views of Christianity small considering he seems to believe being a Christian means you try to do good to get to heaven (100% false- John 3:16).
Rating is reflective of the enjoyment of slow reading I experienced and his style, or rather, his flavor of writing.
My favorite section was that about the flowers.
I do believe he has some very wise and interesting insights in general.
It was worth buying and reading but I would advise one to not take it too seriously (as with any book of thought or opinion).
This book is verbose.
In all honesty, I probably read around 300 full pages of the 428 that it contains.
When he gets lost talking about one topic that you have gotten the gist of you are not missing out by passing a few pages to get to the next topic.
Being from 1937, there was some dated points of view regarding things like women and smoking.
However, overall I would say that I liked the book and I found some interesting thoughts and ideas throughout it.
I had heard a lot about this book and author, so it was worth reading.
First written in 1937, this book is a collection of essays on topics we all deal with in our human experience. A sampling of section titles( there are 14) are: The Awakening, On Being Human, The Importance of Loafing, The Enjoyment of the Home, Relationship to God and The Art of Thinking.This book can be read straight through or sampled by chapter or essay.This book is very relevant to the times we currently live in.Highly recommended.
As others have commented, it's impossible to read this book unless you set aside some of the misogynist and totalizing commentary on race and gender. That said, it's still a hilarious dose of common and not so common sense that hardly seems dated although it was written in 1937. In particular, the advice on reading, writing, and traveling is not to be missed. I found it incredibly fun, myself.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. With chapters titled "on sitting in chairs" and "on having a stomach", there's just something so wonderfully pleasant about wandering through this book, as though you're traveling through a country... it gives you a whole new appreciation and awareness of the simple things in life.
"Those who are wise won't be busy, and those who are too busy can't be wise." -Lin YutangSee ei ole mingi eneseabi raamat, rohkem nagu filosoofiline (sealjuures ka väga pikk) essee. Mulle meeldis lugeda eriti võrdlusi Lääne ja Hiina vahel. Nii hämmastavalt erinev suhtumine.
I have very mixed feelings about this book. It contains some delightful gems of wisdom, but is outdated in many ways. Yutang had me wrapped around his little finger while discussing the joys of leisure, but lost me when he started discussing basically anything related to women.
This is a classic book on how to live a rewarding life. I read it many decades ago as a young man, and I return to it occasionally for a delightful refresher. It happened to be one of Henry Miller's favorites.
Not an easy read by any means. While I feel I got the majority of it, I can only imagine the amount of stuff I missed... So a re-read is necessary.Very deep, detailed and clear. I had a great time with the author.
