https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123196.Brighty_of_the_Grand_Canyon
The grizzled old man named him, “Bright Angel” after a creek that flowed into the Grand Canyon from near his summer dwelling on the North Rim. The two of them had a special bond, but Brighty remained a free spirit, roaming the high cliffs of the Grand Canyon.The prospector was a honest old soul, and freely told others where he thought he had located a seam of valuable copper ore, and early in the novel he was murdered by Jake Irons, a ruthless claim-jumper.We read of all the adventures Brighty went through over the years.
Last week I came across a recently re-released paperback version of Henry’s well-loved historical novel, Brighty of the Grand Canyon.
From the initial chapters where we meet the burro and his prospector friend, Old Timer, and the dastardly Jake Irons, to the blinding snowstorm rescue at the end, the pages are peppered with rich, three-dimensional characters.
Henry skillfully weaves an ark load of historical, geographical, botanical and biological background about the canyon into the story.
Her touch is so subtle that the background enhances the story rather than interrupting or detracting from it, presenting a rich, full-flavored narrative.Brighty of the Grand Canyon won the William Allen White Children's Book Award in 1956.
This was one of my very favorite books when I was a child. I recently spotted it at a library sale and purchased it for my neighbor's little girl. Before giving it to her, I decided to reread it and it held up very well to these adult eyes!
I read one book by Marguerite Henry when I was a kid, Black Gold, and loved it. When I was at the Grand Canyon and saw this book for sale I just had to get it as a momento. If I were still a kid I would probably have loved it. As an adult I thought it was cute but certainly not very compelling. Thus, the 3 star rating is halfway between my adult rating and what I suspect I would have given it as a kid.
I had an old 1953 copy of this book when I was little, god-knows where it is now but I loved its stunning black-and-white illustrations, vibrant characters, rural scenery and adventurous plot. This is definitely a great animal story and I highly recommend it.
This may be the book where it all began.
To this day, I recall reading along when suddenly, Brighty's own perspective leapt off the page and into my impressionable mind.
The burro thought the man who packed his saddle bags a fool — the load woefully unbalanced, all off to one side.
Instantly in love, I was from that moment forever in search of stories written from an animal's perspective — and ever-so-many I was destined to find.
Wish I still had him, but I do have my childhood copy of this grand book.
I last read this book as a fourth grader many years ago. When I found it in the Grand Canyon visitor's center last week, I couldn't resist reading it again. Despite its age, this book is such a dear story, and the attention to history, landscape and environment is inspiring. Perhaps I'll rediscover more of Mrs. Henry's books - Misty of Chincoteague, King of the Wind, etc.
Okay, this probably only would have gotten three stars from me if I weren't in the middle of a mad love affair with the Grand Canyon, but it's so perfectly evocative of what it's like to be there, with the stark cliffs and rushing river and the way mountain lions leap into your path. I especially appreciated the level of detail given to my nemesis, the bridge over the Colorado River.
After I started reading this, I realized I read this before when I was younger. Delightful story of Brighty the donkey that lived at the Grand Canyon!
I'm not even going to try to come up with a "first read" date because this is just one of those deep childhood favorites that I don't even remember reading for a "first time." It just always was.Brighty is adorable.
I had no idea that he was a real burro, and he really did meet Teddy Roosevelt.
Add Brighty to the list my childhood animal heroes who really existed - and who have monuments!
A lot of animal-killing (Roosevelt didn't just come down for suspension bridges, after all) and burro abuse.
But still, Brighty is adorable.
I love this book and still have my copy that my dad bought me. He got it for me because I loved horses but I owned a burro. It was one of my all time favorite reads. I must have read this book 5 times or more. I even spent a summer reading it to my burro Daniel. Im not sure he appreicated what I was trying to share but he always stayed and listend
Light reading about a rascal burro living in the Grand Canyon. Good books compel us to action...this book has sparked an interest in hiking the Grand Canyon. I have added this activity to my bucket list!
Aw, shucks. Who wouldn't love a story about a funny, bright lovable little critter like Brighty? Marguerite Henry is surely guilty of anthropomorphism, but just as surely she knows her equines. I find the burro a little more believable than the human characters, actually.
Here's a book often passed up for not being about a dog, cat, or horse. I heavily recommend it if you like Call of the Wild, Flicka, Lassie, or any of those classic animal books, not only is Brighty a charming book, it's one that I cannot sum up in words any better than a classic that should be read just like all the others, it has charm, whimsy, and a style that reads as much older than it is.
By the end, we all loved Brighty. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2018/01/wh...
Reread of a childhood favorite after finding a boxed set of them at Costco. Still as delightful as when I was a kid.
A very simple story, yet very engaging. I found myself joining Brighty in the canyons and the mesas...feeling his joy in his freedom & friendships, and experiencing his adventures. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
HIS FREE SPIRIT STILL ROAMS THE GRAND CANYONSet in the Grand Canyon during Teddy Roosevelt's presidency this charming tale introduces readers to an unlikely animal protagonist: a wild burro who lives alone, but has been partially tamed by kind men.
For it was this charismatic president who devoted his efforts to setting aside the wilds of the Grand Canyon in the form of a national park.Readers rejoice at Brighty's free spirit, which is said to prance through the gorges and trails which he cut en route to his beloved North Rim. This gentle burro epitomizes the youth and vigor of the primeval canyon-showing how humans and animals should cooperate to preserve America's natural wilderness.
Henry uses the historical facts and embellishes the story to create a murder mystery with some valuable lessons in natural history.
Reading it as an adult, I can definitely see why I loved her books as a child.
There are some darker moments in this book, including animal cruelty, but the murder occurs off text and Henry keeps the violence to a bare minimum and uses humor and joy to temper any negative images.
I must have read it 3 or 4 times as a child, as I did with all of Henry's books.
I first learned about Brighty from Cleveland Amory in his Save the Burros of the Grand Canyon campaign.
It was this introduction that has intrigued me to someday read the story about Brighty to learn about him and it was just plain luck my sister me this story.
For anyone who has read any of the Misty stories Marguerite Henry continues with her own style of writing.
Even Brighty after the first introduction seemed to be introduced rather strong before thinning out in the latter half of the book.
Of her 59 books I've only read Brighty of the Grand Canyon.Brighty the burro was named for Bright Angel Point on the north rim of the Grand Canyon.
He helped build the modern day trails and was known by President Teddy Roosevelt.Although I love the Grand Canyon and its history, both times I've tried reading the book, I've had to struggle to finish it.
I thought perhaps my dislike of the book had been more a result of my overall disdain for reading.
Now I think it is just my dislike of animal centered books.
This is adventures of a burro in the Grand Canyon during the days when President Teddy Roosevelt hunted lion there.
A human friend of the burro mysteriously disappears and is suspected murdered.
Also, the burro is engaged several times in fights (2 mountain lions, one during a hunt.
These are a reflection of the natural world, or the realistic world.I didn't verify the historical accuracy, but it contains some interesting parts about President Theodore Roosevelt hunting and a footbridge being built in the canyon.This is decent storytelling without the annoying social drama found in so many current books.
He was named that because he almost drowned in a river that gos through the Grand Canyon called Bright Angel Creek but a canyon man nick named Old Timer saved him.
Once a year they had this reunion in the canyon, where Old Timer would make Pancakes and they both enjoyed there dinner.
When night came there was a beaver trapper named, Jake Irons that decided to have dinner with them and as they were havig there dinner Old Timer couldn't help but tell Jake Irons about what he found in the canyon which was a vien of ore.
The next morning Old Timer and Jake Irons were gone...
I read this book with Brennan.
A gem miner is murdered in the Grand Canyon, leaving behind his donkey companion.
The donkey, Brighty, is based on a real donkey that roamed the Grand Canyon.
I will always remember that while we were reading this book, my son and I stayed in my sister-in-law's parents' mountain house.
In the bedroom of the mountain house was a picture of my SIL's mother with friends standing outside Bright Angel Lodge at the Grand Canyon.
Brighty was a nickname for Bright Angel.
It was interesting to see this picture just at the time we were reading the book.
Brighty of the Grand Canyon was a book I remembered from my childhood.
I did not read it then but I knew the name, so when I found it at a thrift store, I just knew I wanted it.
I LOVED it, I loved the smell of the old book and I LOVED the story about a feisty little burro that calls the Grand Canyon his home.
While this book is geared to young readers it definitely can hold an adult's interest as well.
Overall just a great book that I highly recommend to everyone!!
4 stars.
This childhood favorite of mine holds up well, capturing a palpable sense of excitement and danger, as well as the incredible locale of the Grand Canyon.
Marguerite Henry anthropomorphizes Brighty well, making him a believable and lovable animal character.
The cameo appearances by Teddy Roosevelt tied the story well to history.
Human characters still feel human--strong, weak, good, rotten.
One aspect that I found interesting is that reading this book as an adult is that Brighty's world feels richer to me thanks to three weeklong backpacking trips I've spent below the rim of the Canyon.
I was very glad that I reread this book.
Brighty was one of her books that I missed reading as a child, so it was with great pleasure I read it with my son.
I would add one caution, that if you have a highly sensitive child, Brighty endures some pretty rough treatment, and part of the story revolves around solving the murder of an old man.
On the plus side, a child's innate sense of justice will be satisfied when the good guys stifle their temptation to take justice into their own hands and the bad guy is arrested.
My wife brought this book back it from a trip this summer. I love the Grand Canyon. This was one of my first chapter books(what kids did and do still call them)when I was in grade school. Great descriptive writing. My first mystery. A real page turner as en eight year old and still is. What followed was my adventure in reading. I began reading L.Frank Baum and Oz, all F. Dixon's Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew, all the Tom Swift in print, and every Scholastic book Club I could afford and My first library card.
after 60 years - the story reads as well as it did when I was a kid.
This book was my first introduction to the Grand Canyon, followed a few years later by Grofe's Grand Canyone Suite which my Mother said I played "over and over" til she knew it by heart and then...
some years after that two great trips within the Canyon, one a raft trip which was one of the best trips ever and a second trip which was a backpacking trip....
I look at the Canyon from the rim and remember....
Every kid needs to read this book!
Brighty is a little burro who lives in the Grand Canyon. Although a "wild" burro, he forms friendships with some humans. When his favorite human is murdered, Brighty deepens his friendship with "Uncle Jim", a guide in the Grand Canyon, who has even taken Teddy Roosevelt out on hunting trips. Brighty has many adventures. He befriends humans, he wanders freely in the Canyon and he has some interesting adventures with other animals.This was a cute story that is appropriate for most school age children. While the writing style is a bit "clunky", the story is interesting and worth reading.
