https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132694.When_Gravity_Fails
This book engrossed me, sucked me in, took me to the seediest bar in town, plied me with cheap booze and left without even a kiss.
Set in a debaucherous, dangerous slum in a futuristic Muslim country where the tricks might be all-girl, ex-boy or something in between, with more pill popping than Charlie Sheen on a bender, you've got to be a bit open-minded to take the ride on this one.
Think hard-boiled noir, crossed with A Scanner Darkly and filled in around the edges with Richard K Morgan's Altered Carbon.Inshallah.A Hugo and Nebula nominee deserving of its nominations.
It is a rich, fascinating and diverse world where people can easily have their brains wired for “moddies”, plastic cartridges with different personality types, from fictional characters to celebrities, that are inserted directly into the skull and “daddies”, smaller add-ons that are inserted next to the moddies to enhance certain skills, like the ability to converse in other languages, and to depress certain physical and mental functions, like hunger, thirst or fear.
I loved Marîd’s independence and honesty, though I fear that now he is under Friedlander Bey's control the things I like about him will change dramatically in the next book.
Our hero is a minor thug and druggie who unlike the majority of the city's denizens does not partake of the moddies or daddys that everyone else indulges in.
Moddies change your personality completely by plugging into your brain and daddys do things like enable you to speak a foreign language.
Effinger knows what he's doing and delivers a great story with an anti-hero who grows on you and a lot of scurrilous characters who don't and a real, crummy, miserable, hot as hell world to contain them.The only reason I wouldn't give this a better rating is because this world is a misogynistic world in which the gals are there for sex or serving drinks only and most of the women in it are actually men who have been surgically modified.
Dirty, gritty, morally ambiguous cyberpunk with a bit of a biopunk feel, too, but more than anything, this was a solid detective fiction.
It's very detailed, full of great cultural stuff, and the concept of personality modding and its execution here, with both the good and the really dark side included, was really great.I mean, where else can you get a thoroughly Muslim town and a half Muslim/half French main character in the future to casually accept the fact that men and women can change genders whenever they want fairly cheaply?
How about taking a ride along a personality path as a great hero or a great villain?
When Gravity Fails was pretty good, without ever quite achieving greatness. I enjoyed it, but the pieces never entirely came together and swept me away. It was, however, part of my ongoing project to read all the Hugo nominees for novels. It's going to take a while. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It is a unique approach in English science fiction (for SF published at 1988), but at the same time I feel the Muslim setting in the novel is rather familiar with my life, (unlike if I read a life of characters at a colony on Mars).
(view spoiler)[ Reading the two Arab characters bargaining intensely, I can't help smiling because it is so true in real life.
And how the protagonist changing his activity hours on the fasting month is true also; this technique has been done by real people, especially who doesn't have productivity life from-9-to-5.
(hide spoiler)]I am looking forward to read the rest of the series, especially due to world-building sake.
I imagine I knew what to expect once upon a time, but that time was long gone and When Gravity Fails was full of fun cyberpunky surprises.
His acceptance made it seem normal, barely worth mentioning, and I loved the comfort this engendered (sorry ...
I liked it just fine and was all set to give When Gravity Fails three stars.
It was mostly just a comfortable read -- the kind I'd pick up when my brain needs a rest.But then Audran found his killers, and When Gravity Falls did things with Audran (freshly modified despite years of remaining free of augmentations) that I didn't expect.
Brilliant story, great concept, intriguing characters. I really enjoyed this one. It's dark, edgy, and depicts a life lived hand to mouth in a rough neighbourhood where life is cheap and drugs and booze take the edge off. An unlikely hero, and a cast of characters that come and go the way you'd expect in a world of easy loyalties, you'd be surprised how much you come to care for the people living on the Street. The tech is interesting and makes you wonder what choices you'd make given the option. I can't recommend it highly enough.
A strange mixture of elements that I’ve seen in earlier science fiction--When Gravity Fails reminded me A LOT of Spider Robinson’s Mindkiller.
Want to speak fluent German?
Lots of women who used to be men (although why they would make that change in a society where it seems that women can only hustle in bars or be prostitutes, I’m not sure).
Even those who maintain their genetic gender go in for body modifications, changing their appearances drastically.Add to this odd community a killer who is eliminating friends and associates of Marid, and we also have a murder mystery element.
Book 220 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy reading project.
Like, everyone's Muslim!"Aside from that novelty factor, When Gravity Fails serves up what you expect in a cyberpunk novel: digital personalities, downloaded brain modifications, surgically altered bodies, fractured nation-states, and lots of crime and grit and whores.Marid Audrian is a Moroccan son of a prostitute who's your fairly standard noir protagonist: he hangs out in the Budayeen, an Arab ghetto in an unnamed Middle Eastern city, and his friends, lovers, and business associates are all grifters, bartenders, prostitutes, various-shades-of-dirty cops, street hustlers, just trying to get by, preying on rich tourists and their fellow citizens alike.Marid gets dragged into a convoluted plot involving a serial killer who initially uses a James Bond persona, which was a mildly clever touch.
These modules are as available as video tapes are today: moddies modify your personality while daddies offer a slew of options, such as blocking pain, virtual sex, etc.As one of the blurbs on the cover states, "This is what cyberpunk will be when it grows up".I was so saddened to hear of George's death in April 2002.
I had exchanged emails with him a few years ago prior to that, and he seemed hopeful of his fourth novel of this series approaching publication.
Here's hoping all's not lost and we cansomeday enjoy the as yet unpublished fourth Marid Audran installment.
I’ve taken the liberty of rewriting the back-cover to better reflect the reality of When Gravity Fails:In a decadent world of fluid gender and body image, where every literally every male-turned-female is a prostitute, Marid Audran is a loser with no real relationships, no real morals, & no real toughness, who spends the majority of his time (and ours) drug binging and sitting around in strip clubs, making banal comments about the artificiality of paid intimacy……for it is not until page 163 – over half way through the book – that Marid Audran is enlisted as the “godfather’s” instrument of vengeance and undergoes the most sophisticated of surgical implants, after which he promptly fails to use them and avoids confronting the killer who most certainly does not possess the power of every psychopath since the beginning of time.There, much better.
Mod chips can be inserted in to brain ports to override your personality, daddie chips can give temporary access to information such as "I know kung fu," men can be surgically altered to become women from head to toe, women can be altered to become men and then dress in drag to become women again, it's a strange new world for an independent hustler to move through, even more so when you factor in the religious zealots and bullies that still rule with the iron fist of Islam and you have no faith yourself.It is also the story of a crazed killer who moves unnoticed through the Budayeen thanks to his James Bond Mod chip and how the denizens react to the situation.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. A fantastic novel. Smart, original and very well-written. A gritty, "noir" science fiction detective story that kept me interested all the way through. Highly recommended!!Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)
That said, I enjoyed this much more when I read it the first time as a teen, when my exposure to other cultures was more limited and I took the trappings of Islam and north African locations as really deep.
That is to say, all of Effinger's Budayeen books are actually about his hometown of New Orleans with the names changed.
They're like cartoons of New Orleans stereotypes, though I'm confident after reading a fair amount about the life and times of the author that many of the people he knew fit those stereotypes.
An early cyberpunk near-future 'who-dunnit' novel nominated for a Nebula and Hugo in 1987 and 1988, respectively. Conjuring up images of BLADERUNNER, a pill-poppin detective investigates a series of savage murders thru the seedy streets of an uber kinky red light district. The scenes of drug induced madness reminded me of Hunter S. Thompson's FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS...but in Cairo?
It’s a science fiction book in terms of its setting, but the story was really more of a murder mystery than anything else.
It’s set in the Middle East, during the year 2172, and most of the story takes place in a ghetto area.
Aside from those things, technology seemed pretty close to what it was in 1987 when the book was written.Our main character, Marîd, is one of few people who aren’t “wired” to use modifications.
It's a very strange world made stranger by it's worldbuilding and backdrop of Muslim culture.
It's a novel that is about 70% worldbuilding and about 30% detective mystery.
I didn't care about any of the characters and yet I really enjoyed the immersion into this strange world.
Well worth my time.4 StarsEdited to add: I've read my fair share of violent novels this year (and a couple more in queue); but I didn't find this one quite so grotesque or the violence too gratuitous (yes there are exceptions to this very general statement).
Marîd Audrian makes for a great protagonist; he is hard boiled, reminds me a lot of the private detectives in the pulp genres.
It kind of reminds me a little of the Dresden Files by Jim Butcher in the sense that it takes the best elements of the pulp genre and mixes it with a hard hitting protagonist in a will build speculative fiction world.
Recommended for fans of Science Fiction and pulp novels or even just fans of The Dresden Files; actually I would probably recommend it to anyone that wants to read a captivating book.
And I grabbed this book when I was not in the mood for subtext, and clever, and metaphor.But that's okay; there's a lot of good story here on top of the sub stuff.
Marîd Audran is big, tough, and lives by his wits without selling more of himself than he chooses in the Budayeen, a future decadent Arabic ghetto where pleasure is cheap and independence, rare.
Offered a position as Bey's agent, an offer that cannot be rejected, requiring the most sophisticated surgical implants, Marîd is made capable of battle with a strange and powerful killer, whom he must defeat or die trying.
Reading through this book again I was surprised at how much I had forgotten about it.
But this was a good thing at once again I delighted in the story and the people.
A dark, dingy world full of sex, drugs, and murder.
One man who has always held himself separate from the rest finds he has to become one of the many to find the killer.This book, far ahead of it's time with regards to sexuality, is great from start to finish.
I will be reading the rest of the series for sure.
Her body was perfect, small and lithe and so sweet that you almost ached to run your hand down that flawless skin, glittering now with sweat.
You bought the girls drinks and you stared at their perfect bodies and you pretended that they liked you.
Whe you stopped spending money, they got up and pretended that they liked someone else.”“’She’s just amped for daddies, I think,’ said Chiri.
You will never know if you don’t get on the train.Afterthoughts: Some say Effinger conflates the Budayeen with his own New Orleans.
I was kept amused and in thrall by the world and cultures the author had created and by the time I actively tried to figure out whodunit because I was pretty bored, the main character, Marîd was already on his way to get him.
It's a book that got me pondering about our own world and how we view our own culture.
just at times a bit bored because not much was happening ((view spoiler)[all those bodies building up, and then chasing down a bunch of endless dead ends makes for frustrated reader.
Transgender is a subject of the book because in the future Effinger creates, the majority of people in the world have elected to perform various levels of surgery on themselves--brain plugins that can upgrade and alter all aspects of the mind (such as eliminating tiredness, increasing deductive reasoning or speeding reflexes) or overlay specific personas such as "James Bond," or porn stars or psychotic mass murderers.
For example, in a world where the main character's friend could murder a pimp casually in a nightclub (and by the way, the prostitutes work in that very nightclub) and it's no big deal to anyone, including the police, it just made no sense that the main character would refuse to carry a weapon on him.
We never even get a lot of time devoted to the tech, something that no cyber punk story should neglect.
Unfortunately, we never quite learn why he despises its use in a world where people get wired in at ages as young as 13.
While somewhat better in its representation, we also don't get nearly enough time exploring Marid's interaction with other people who use the tech in my opinion.There are some interesting sexual aspects of the story.
If a man gets a sex change operation in this world, she is then automatically a prostitute, stripper, or escort as well.
22nd century cyberpunk set in an ascendant middle east.
With the addition of an elegant depiction of the widespread use of bionic implants he produced an intelligent and intriguing novel.The culture of drugs is pervasive in the story - reminiscent of Huxley and his descendants, but it is the use of personality modules - "moddies" - and data modules - "daddies" - as bionic amplifications of individuals' brains - a sort of applied autonetics - that distinguishes the world imagined by the author.
The resulting suspense is exciting, but the story is deepened and made more significant by the moral choices and decisions that Audran must make, by himself, in order to solve the mystery behind the killings.
Almost the entire population have implants that enable personality modification (moddies), and data addons such as languages and skills (daddies).
But I think it's the conflict of all those things that made it such an interesting setting.The pace of the story was somehwat frustrating, the buildup was very slow, not that I wasn't involved, but it wasn't til around the middle of the book that I felt Marid really getting stuck into the middle of events.
I'm going to have to check out the next in the series, as it was just the kind of ending that left me thinking 'huh.
Goodreads ate my review again and I am once again very angry so I shall make the following comments in lieu of ranting:I liked this book quite a bit and I dearly hope the other two in the series are close to as good.This book makes me think more SF should be set in Muslim cultural areas because I found it to be refreshing.George Effinger wrote another book that I have got to read based on the title alone Maureen Birnbaum: Barbarian Swordsperson.I have found very little use for cabbage in my life.
not too many of these though.Very good book, 4.5/5
All good!Now, I normally don't like cyber punk or techno thrillers, but this book made that subgenre so much more.
By concentrating on the plot and the characters and the setting, the techno speak and situations are played down as just a facet in a complex story.One of my complaints with some science fiction authors is that they are so enamored with the technology and the physics that the actual story and characters suffer as a result.
He is quite possibly one of the more overlooked authors in the science fiction field and that is a shame!
