https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1428.By_the_River_Piedra_I_Sat_Down_and_Wept
Thank you, Mr Coelho.At a time when my parents and my son are dying, and can't accept love, help and support, this one paragraph in your Author's Note gave me joy and hope:"But ultimately there is no good reason for our suffering, for in every love lies the seed of our growth.
Those who are truly enlightened, those whose souls are illuminated by love, have been able to overcome all the inhibitions...
True love is an act of total surrender."...One doesn't love in order to do what is good, or to help, or to protect someone.
I can only hope to be able to walk it!
But now, I am writing more about it on my personal realizations after experiencing this enigmatic literary work.I have jotted down some lines from the book that struck me the most, and taken note of my insights.(1) But love is much like a dam:if you allow a tiny crack to form through which only a trickle of water can pass, that trickle will quickly bring down the whole stucture and soon no one will be able to control the force of the water.Me: Falling in love is a beautiful experience.
The point of the story has the usual message of all his novels; the central character realises that she needs to ignore everyone else’s opinions and feelings and become more religious in order to be truely happy.
However the unintended contradiction of this message seems to be that by getting ‘faith’ she is really just masking the true cause of her unhappiness by making her believe that her selfishness and self-obsession are actually OK.I'm guessing I missed the point entirely with this book, but unfortunately it comes across as so poor that I couldn't be bothered to find out.
الكثير والكثير من اللهفة لأن نتواصل مع أنفسنا تزهر في قلوبنا ..هذا الكتاب بالذات ..
مضت أيام لمجرد ذكر كتاب على نهر بيدرا ..
تبتسم وتكون النهاية التي أردت وتمنيت وأنست بها !باولو كاتب يجعلك تحزن أنك انتهيت منه !تتمنى لو أنك لم تنتهي ..
باولو كاتب يحيي في قلبك أشياء غريبة ويجعلك تلتفت لأشياء لم تطرأ لك على بال !كاتب من زمن آخر ..
باولو يعشق القلب وأمين يجعلك تقتنع أكثر !على نهر بيدرا ..
فكانت على نهر بيدرا هناك جلست فضحكت !نعم ..
They travel together across parts of Spain and France, discussing life, love, faith and spirituality.
A lot of the focus is on Christian ideas, but there are also plenty of other forms of spirituality included.
At times it really made me stop and think, and the writing took me away from myself and into another world, a simpler world where faith is easier and the people are kinder.
Overall I did enjoy it, I liked some of the different ideas included - a major one being God portrayed as a woman, or ‘the mother'; a lot of interesting stuff.
We suffer because our love is going unrecognized.
Every day, God gives us the sun - and also one moment in which we have the ability to change everything that makes us unhappy.
But if people really pay attention in their everyday lives, they will discover that magic moment.
At any given moment in our lives, there are certain things that could have happened but didn’t.
The magic moments go unrecognized, and then suddenly, the hand of destiny changes everything.
Waiting is painful.
Forgetting is painful.
رواية اخرى رائعة من الكاتب الكبير باولو كويلو, عند قراءة الكتاب تذهب الى رحلة جميلة وانت تقراء كل صف
Its the kind of book you'd either Love or Hate, theres no in between.I Loved this book, I know some people hated it, maybe they didnt understand the whole concept( for lack of better word) but i adored it.It has so many good quotes, I have highlighted almost whole book and now my book looks like a rainbow.
Yes many people can argue about somethings in this book and thats okay, everything has two sides, its upto you how you look at it.
Maybe we are allowed to have some doubts and questions.I dont know what else to say about this book, its just that you have to trust me, and just dive in.
Πρώτη επαφή με τον Coelho, όχι και η καλύτερη!Ξεκινά ενδιαφέρον, κάπου χάνεται κάπου κουράζει με τόσες αναφορές στη θρησκεία..
The story focuses on Pilar, an independent young woman, who is frustrated with the grind of university life and looking for greater meaning.
Pilar's life takes a turn when she meets up with a childhood sweetheart, who is now a spiritual teacher and a rumoured healer and miracle worker, and sets off with him on a journey through the French Pyrenees.
عشق میان دو شخصیت اصلی داستان، زندگی آنها را به راهی بدل میکند که به خدا میرسد.
عشق مریم مقدس نیز در سراسر داستان، آنها را دربرمیگیرد و نمیگذارد احساس را وانهند.
أن تقرأ كل كلمة و كل حرف بكل الحذر ، و أنت متأهب لالتقاط الأفكار التي تعارض معتقداتك و الرد عليها ..
لو لم أكن أثق بقدرتي على الفصم بين الصواب و الخطأ - حسب معتقدي - ما واصلت هذه الرواية و أكملتها !
بوصف التغيير خطر ..
لكن فكرة الوجه الأنثوي هذه ، أوعزت لي طريقة طرحها أنها فكرة مستحدثة ، غير مجمع عليها ..
تلك التي صفعناها بالخوف ، ركلناها بما هو معتاد ، ثم قيّدناها هناك في الزاوية ..
الحياة التي تريدها أنت ..
لا تلك التي يريدها الآخرون ..
هذه الفكرة تظهر بجلاء و وضوح مع آخر الرواية ..
چقدر یک موجود میتونه درمانده و بدبخت باشه که مسیرِ زندگیش رو کشیش و کلیسا و یا هر دین و مذهبِ دیگه، تعیین کنهچقدر یک موجود میتونه خرافاتی و متوهم باشه که به چیزی که نه دیده میشه و نه احساس میشه و وجودش به هیچ روشی ثابت نشده، صفت بده و برای اون جنسیت تعیین کنهدر کتاب آمده که: « در حالی که بقیه مشغولِ خواندنِ سرود مذهبی بودند، با خود گفتم: اگر خداوند دارایِ وجه مؤنث نیز باشد چقدر جالب است.
اگر حقیقت داشته باشد پس وجه مؤنثِ خداوند است که عشق را به ما آموختخوب دوستانِ خردمند، همانطور که در متنِ انتخاب شده از کتاب خواندید، نویسندۀ متوهم غیر از جنسیت تعیین کردن برایِ خدا، او را آموزگاری میدونه که به انسان عشق رو آموزش داه...
horrible, pretentious, verbose, and yet basically content-free language - which in itself might be seen as quite an achievement if you're trying to do really bad writing.
- i really dont understand how anyone who has even spent a *minute* reflecting on any philosophical question would get any sort of insight out of such a book!
as i remember it, the outline of the plot even sounded pretty promising....
i honestly have to say, in terms of style, language, *and* content, this was probably the worst book i have ever finished reading.

This book wasn't even close to as good as The Alchemist, and it seems as though it was translated really poorly too.
If I could read Portugese I would try it, but since I'm limited to English or Spanish, I think I'm done with trying to make this book better than my original reaction deemed it.It wasn't a very cohesive story, the whole "feminine face of God" thing was cool, but fairly random and not well elaborated, the "love story" was sappy and pathetic.
Why can't I be more like Trish and just let sucky books go without having to finish them?Anyway, save yourself from the self-flagellation that will come when you don't feel like finishing it, and don't even start it.
I opened this book with NO expectation's. Many people take Paulo Coelho's books with this expectations that it will be as good as The Alchemist is. But no book will ever be good as Alchemist is. So, for me this book was quite unexpected but in a good way. I have read many books of Paulo but this book was quite exception of Paulo's writing. It was desperate, Spiritual and so knowledgeable. I quite learned about Christianity, Spirituality. Love and Decisions.   “If pain must come, may it come quic
Many people take Paulo Coelho's books with this expectations that it will be as good as The Alchemist is.
The most beautiful opening paragraph I’ve ever read in my life.
“But love is much like a dam; if you allow a tiny crack to form through which only a trickle of water can pass, that trickle will quickly bring down the whole structure and soon no one will be able to control the force of the current.” 
I have two more books by Coelho that I want to read.
Trust me and do yourself a favor.After the success of The Alchemist, I feel like Coelho just threw a bunch of ideas together and called it a new story.
I finally finished it for the sake of finishing it.The author tried to throw in a few themes from The Alchemist, and there are maybe a few good ideas in here, but nothing good enough to waste your time reading an entire book to glean some tidbits.Note: A lot of reviewers on Amazon said they didn't like the fact that the book delved so much into religion, but I didn't mind that.
A very, intense, emotional read. A deviation from Cuelho's usual themes in his books.
While the beauty of their love story as it unfolds kept me wanting more, I found myself disappointed, especially toward the end when I didn’t feel the same intensity of emotions as I did with the opening paragraphs.Like the other Coelho books I’ve read, By The River Piedra I Sat Down and Wept carries a spiritual theme, as he touches quite a bit on the mystical nature of God. In this particular piece, he focuses on the young man’s belief in a feminine God that grants him the power to heal.
When a childhood friend contacts her, she is surprised to learn that her former playmate is now a charismatic spiritual leader, someone revered as a miracle worker.
Confused by this sudden opportunity for a new chance at life, Pilar gradually comes to realize that the man she loves is being called upon to choose between her and his spiritual calling.
Full of warmth and wisdom, joy and unexpected sorrow, their story is a magical celebration of the endless possibilities that life has to offer, and a fable about opening your heart to miracles.

هذه الحيرة والمسؤولية التي شعرت بها على عاتقها جراء تخلي حبيبها الراهب عن حلمه دون لحظة تفكير من قبله بكم الأرواح التي سيتعلق مصيرها بقراره من مرضى و ضعاف إيمان؟ أحببت انسحابها و أحببت خوفها من أن تكون جزءًا في تعطيل خدمة دينية أو جزءًا في لعبة سماوية بمسمى ديني .الضعف الإنساني و القوة الدينية V القوة الإنسانية و الضعف الديني أحببت ذلك ( الآخر ) الذي يخشاه أبطال الرواية و يحسبون له ألف حساب، هذا الآخر فينا صاحب البصيرة الذي نمقتها لأنها تكشف لعبتنا ونوايانا، كيف تنمو حشريته دون أن نشعر، و مهما كممناه تجرأ ونطق ؟برأيي هذه الرواية مررت لنا الكثير من أفكار الآخر من كويلو دون أن نشعر نفّس عن غضبه أمامنا فلا أقل من أن أنفّس عن عضبي في القليل من السطور.
باور بفرمائید برای همخوابه شدن یه دختر با یه کشیش نیاز به وساطت عیسی و مریم باکره و کلیسا نیست!
با تأسف باید بگم کهنه نتها بشدت کسالت بار و ناامیدکننده بود بلکه احساس کردم شما با این سبک نوشتن دارین دام مذهب رو دوباره جلوی پاهای ما باز میکنیین ..
ولیکن نمیدونم هدفتون از خلاصه کردن انجیل تووی این کتاب چی بود ..
آقای کوئیلو شما نویسنده این ..
تووی دویست صفحه کتاب چه لزومی داره که بیشتر از ششصد بار اسم عیسی و مریم باکره و روح القدس رو بکار ببرین؟ واقعا برای تبلیغ مذهب روش جالبی نیست ..
Este libro me costó mucho leerlo. Me parecó muy aburrido.
على الرغم من أنني لا أقرأ الكتب المترجمة إلا بعد التحقق من المترجم؛ إلا أنني عند روايات كويلو أنسى هذا الأمري لعلمي و تأكّدي من أنه لا يسمح بصدور نسخ مترجمة إلا بعد تحققه من ترجمتها؛ و ستعرفون ذلك -ربما- من خلال مقدماته التي يكتبها للنسخ العربية خاصة.
كويلو يحترم الأديان و تعددها بشكل مُرضٍ، و هذا ما يجعله محبوباً للكثير من قرّائه، و على الرغم من أن أبطال الرواية نصارى و أحداثها تدور حول النصرانية و أتباعها و فلسفاتها الدينية فهو لا يقلل من شأن الأديان الأخرى، و هي في نظره تصبّ في علاقة الإنسان بالله مهما كان شكل الدين و كيف كان مسمّاه.
This is another book of Coelho which couldn't give me satisfaction as what The Alchemist does.
However, it still a nice one.It gives proof that Coelho has a deep knowledge and skills about diverse religions, although it is clear that that He has more about Christianity.
Above all, I do believe that GOD has feminine face.
It just a matter of in what context we put ourselves.I love the way Coelho says in this book, that every religions put different names for GOD.
He reminds me to keep on believing GOD's will in my life.
Personally for me, whenever you mix religion with a special type of philosophy I get this sense as if someone is calling my name.
This book called my name.
The man in the story (completely nameless) has loved ever since they were little.
They go about roaming in the street for a vacation, but her religion takes a whole different turn.He guides her through life in a span of a week.
What kept me reading was how they discussed god consisting of both male and female.
God has a face of a woman and a man.
this is just a VERY brief summary to what the book has to offer.
في البدايه تجد المقدمه العربيه بقلم باولو كويلو تتحدث عن احد القصصه الموروثه بالعلم الصوفيوالروايه كلها تتحدث عن نفس فكره التصوفالا وهو حب الاله بطريقه مسيحيهحب المسيح وحب مريم العذراءنسير معا مع بيلار وصديق طفولتها الى رحله البحث عن الذات , واعاده ايمانهما لضحض التناقضات واختبار مشاعرهما المساله هنا مساله الدروب المختلفه التي يسلكها الفرد لتحديد مصيرههل سعينا بالارض مجدا اما لا؟هل نحن سعداء فيه ام لا؟هل هناك شيئا ندمنا عليه ام لا؟اسئله ينسى الانسان ان يطرحها على نفسه في مسيرته
ضميري يمنعني غالبا من أن أبدأ كتابا ولا أنهيه !كويلو حبيب الجماهير .. :/الرواية فقيرة ، من زاوية الحب فالقصة بسيطة ولا تصلح قصة غرام .أما من زاوية الإيمان ومعرفة الله فالرواية أتت بتساؤلات قد يطرحها الملحد أو ضعيف الإيمان، ثم ماذا بعد أين الأجوبة ؟؟!------ربما هي آخر رواية أقرأها لباولو ... فالحياة أقصر من أن نقرأ كتبا لا تضيف إلى إيماننا وعواطفنا وحبنا شيئا يذكر.
چقدر بد بودپشیمون شدم کتابشو گرفتم(-_-)==%
