https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311133.The_Unfinished_Clue
A tyrannical host found stabbed to death in his study, a group of guests each having a reason to hate him and a young and clever detective from Scotland Yard.
The stage, an English country house weekend interspersed with cocktails, teas and politely traded barbs.
Written back in 1934, The Unfinished Clue is a classic Golden Age mystery abounding in wit, atmosphere and old-fashioned charm, where the intricate web of suspicions is subtly interwoven and the tension is conveyed through engaging and polished dialogues leading to the climactic final revelation.
Buddy-read with Anne :)
One of the best benefits of a bad memory is the ability to reread mysteries!
I didn't remember this at all when I started rereading it -- I know I have read it as I own it and I love Heyer but nothing about the blurb seemed familiar.
So it was a fun surprise to find out I didn't know who did it after all at the end!
Being a Heyer, it is no surprise that there was a romantic subplot but it was unusually low key.
Clever dialogue and eccentric characters who all had a motive for hating and murdering the victim are at the heart of this clever mystery.
I had my suspicions, but I was totally unable to guess all the particulars, and I loved the feeling of being held on the edge of my seat until the last chapter.
Or could it be someone else from outside?The Unfinished Clue had me wondering “WHO IS IT??!” the entire time, and as soon as I thought maybe I’d found the culprit, something happened to throw my suspicions off, a new track was embarked on by the detective, and I was left guessing once again.
My first Georgette Heyer book, and I'll most definitely be back for more!Really enjoyed this whodunnit, involving a large cast of characters and an English country manor. The plot was reminiscent of Agatha Christie, but the writing and the language was most enjoyable for me. Loved being thrown back to 1930's England. A strong mystery, one which I certainly did not solve!
My first foray into the murder mysteries of Georgette Heyer, and it won't be my last.Heyer, while better known for her regency and Georgian romances, also wrote a fair number of mysteries along the lines of Agatha Christie.This novel, written in 1934, has all the classic elements of an English "Golden Age" mystery:- The bucolic country setting complete with stately home, a rose garden, and a staff of well-trained servants who know their place.- A crusty old curmudgeon of a victim, who no one (including the reader) is sorry to see meet his maker.- A large cast of suspects to choose from, including the staples of a golden age mystery: the younger second wife, her lover, the scapegrace step-son, the vixen, the vicar's wife, and...dare I say it...the butler?- Classic interrogation techniques worthy of Monsieur Poirot himself, in which the suspects are each interviewed in the sitting room (or was it the morning room?) by the dapper Scotland Yard Inspector.
They're like catnip to me, to the extent that I've seen Gosford Park at least six times and aren't even close to getting sick of it.Speaking of which, Georgette Heyer's The Unfinished Clue is almost a carbon copy of that movie.
It's so similar to Gosford Park, in fact, that murder itself is almost exactly like the movie - the host, Sir Arthur Billington-Smith, is found stabbed to death in his study.
Actually, the solution to the mystery is pretty similar to Gosford Park as well, and that's all the detail I'll go into without spoiling it.
Admitting you’re a murder mystery addict is sort of like admitting you buy bags of Fritos knowing you’re the only one in the house who will eat them.
I tell myself that mysteries exercise my brain somehow, but we all know they’re just entertainment, especially as I rarely figure out who done it.
However, one weekend at a particularly miserable house party, he unwittingly delights other people by getting himself murdered — and in the library!
Some of the dialogue is the verbal equivalent of slapstick (if that makes sense), and the mystery is engaging in the best tradition of classic English house murders.
Georgette Heyer, best known for her Regency romances, also wrote several mysteries, and The Unfinished Clue was the first that I have read.
The "unfinished clue" of the title was a scrap of paper upon which the victim had scrawled "there." Or was it "they're?" Or was it "their?" I didn't know the answer until the end, although I don't believe that knowing would have helped me in the least to guess the identity of the murderer.Ulli Birve's narration was a bit on the slow side, but her ability to voice the myriad characters was excellent.
The descriptions of British country life and customs are very exacting and detailed, right down to the social stratification of the police (see below) and the appropriate time of day to start drinking cocktails.
Because it's Heyer, there's also a romance, which I enjoyed more than I probably should have (given (view spoiler)[the book takes place in the order of days rather than weeks, and they're engaged at the end!) (hide spoiler)]).
I took off a star because I found the eventual answer to the mystery needlessly convoluted - (view spoiler)[why not have Mrs. Twining as the ex-wife, rather than the vicar's wife?
(hide spoiler)] - but I'm definitely in for more of these.
An acrimonious country houseparty weekend turns murderous and Scotland Yard detective, Inspector Harding has his work cut out for him.
But to balance all these out, I found Dinah a splendid and sparkling foil with her spot-on observations and diverting dialogue.I actually had the right idea from early on for the murder, but didn't get it all quite right when the final twist and reveal came.
I enjoyed following along as Harding worked the case.
He was an okay detective, not a favorite like Hemmingway in the other series, but I did like Harding as Dinah's love interest.All in all, it was entertaining and just what I was in the mood for- classic whodunnit!
In style and substance her work is much like Mary Stewart's or perhaps Agatha Christie's, and Dorothy L.
The mystery itself is rather typical of the type, with a mystery that can't quite be solved owing to a lack of the most important piece of information (which, if you had, would spoil the story altogether), but I enjoyed Heyer's narration and dialogue, and had a rather giggly moment over the romance.
The characters all seem rather stock, really, but it worked in this case.At this rate, I shall have to start a guilty pleasures shelf for the purpose of putting Heyer and Stewart on it.
Except I don't really feel guilty.
A most enjoyable mystery, my first by Heyer and I thoroughly enjoyed.
It was a cozy mystery, involving the murder of a cantankerous man, unloved by pretty well everybody associated with him.
No reliance on fancy CSI-type technology, basically interviews and following up on questions, but so totally satisfying of a story.
The ending was also satisfying and had a little twist I didn't really see coming.
Not a book I'll think about for years to come, but just a perfect, enjoyable read.
Always nice to discover a new author that you want to read more of.
A competent, but not tremendously compelling mystery, lightened a little by Lola-the-dancer, who is forthright and wholly without morals. I enjoyed the main POV character, Dinah, but did not find her very quick romance particularly interesting.Good narrator.
It's always hard to transition to a new book after I've read something really good.
I think of her mysteries as what Jane Austen would have written if she'd been transplanted to the Golden Age of Mystery.
Just enough to be enjoyable if you like romance and not so much as to be annoying if you don't.This is a classic country house murder.
You can hardly wait for him to meet his maker.This is an ensemble cast, but the principal characters are Lady Billington-Smith's feisty sister, Dinah, and the Scotland Yard detective.
Ulli Birvé is a wonderful reader, with that upper-crust accent you expect for a Golden Age mystery.
But I can say that I started this with the hope that it would be like Why Shoot a Butler?.
Even if this mystery is not as good as say, Death in Kenya, it is still well worth the read.
On an end note if you are not okay with the characters drinking (sherry's, cocktails with absinthe) then you probably wouldn't like this as in the first half Steven Guest and Lola And Camilla are constantly looking for their next drink.
Lola in particular likes Absinthe in her cocktails at 11:00am sharp.
There are too many people mixed up in it.' Even the suspects, when discussing the case amongst themselves are confused and one of them makes a suggestion: 'Let us all put the name of the person each of us thinks did it into a hat, and see who gets the most votes.' And that cast of characters, delightfully described and given life by Georgette Heyer, flit in and out of the story offering various clues that constantly change the thinking of Harding, his Sergeant colleague and the local police force, one of whom is convinced early in the plot that he has the murderer identified.But diligent police work usually pays off and so it does in this tale as Harding suddenly realises that one clue was more or less staring him in the face and he did not initially realise its importance.
A classic British murder-in-a-country house fun read - the characters aren't nearly as fully fleshed out as in most Agatha Christies, but they're a lot wittier.
Lovely English country-house murder novel that never fails to please.
The victim was a bully to his wife - a long-suffering, wilting flower.
The man who loves her is chivalrous to the extreme.
When I tried listening to the audiobook narrated by Ulli Birve I about went crazy.
I don't know if my copy got messed up somehow, but I had to speed it up to 1.25% just to listen to it, she talked soooooo sloooowlllllly.
I enjoyed it once I got her up to a more normal speed, though.
I actually swiftly and correctly finished the unfinished clue, which is not a sensation I'm used to, and also guessed the identity the murderer (I seem to have switched to reviewing myself.
5 stars!
Luckily I was wrong about who it belonged to (4 stars, tsk tsk), which made the conclusion more satisfying.
Despite this, however, and the low body count, I did enjoy the dialogue and the setting and will definitely try Heyer again.*Not an actual scene from the book.
I would love a La Lola spinoff.
My first Heyer novel, but definitely not my last. The dialogue is very witty and the characters are great. It is not a thought provoking, strenuous read, but a thoroughly enjoyable, fun read.
Flimsy but entertaining detective story set in a country house. A bit more depth of plot and character and a lot less romance would have made it much more of a good read for me.
I had read Heyer's Regency novels but never any of her mysteries. I was so pleased with this one! The characters, the plotting, and the twists made this a fast enjoyable read for me.
Reading Heyer's mysteries reminds me why I don't read Heyer's mysteries.This was ponderous and borderline boring. The characters were well-developed, in true Heyer fashion, but in this novel I couldn't seem to care much. I couldn't even get invested in the romance that was brewing. The investigation was not as interestingly done as in Agatha Christie's Poirot novels, the majority of the plot revolved around the frustration of the members of the house who had to stay put until the investigation was over, and even though the plot-twist at the end was welcome, it wasn't entirely surprising either.
I'll get to that soon.It starts with Miss Dinah Fawcett arriving at Sir Arthur's house so her poor sister, Lady Billington-Smith, has at least some kind of support.
The setup was far from boring.One of the most entertaining things in this book are its characters.
As much as I hated Sir Arthur there is one thing I agree with him: when you visit someone's home, it is rude (I'm being polite here) to impose your rules on people around you and to expect them to change everything just for your sake.Overall, I am glad there are more Heyer's murder mysteries to be read.
His weak, much younger wife Fay has to put up with Sir Arthur's heavy-handed flirting with Camilla Halliday, who puts up with the flirting because she's angling for a financial favor.
Her husband puts up with it because he's stuck at Sir Arthur's house.
If you can overlook some period piece stereotyping (although Lola is terrific fun because she's so pragmatic and everything she says makes perfect sense for someone interested in maintaining their celebrity; the mild anti-semitism towards another character is not so fun), this is a clever mystery with distinct and believable characters.
Sir Arthur Billington-Smith is not a pleasant man, and his unpleasantness is at full force on the weekend in which his son brings home the Mexican cabaret dancer he claims he is going to marry, to a country house party already filled with disparate people working at enough cross-purposes to hang each other.
The Mexican cabaret dancer spoke like a stereotypical Frenchwoman - I simply could not get her dialogue to come out in a Spanish accent in my head - and one of the other characters peppered his speech with "Er"s, which made it a punishment whenever he spoke.
Who would want to kill Sir Arthur Billington Smith?
He treated everyone so horrialbe even his wife and son.
Then flirting and getting way too friendly with a house guest right in front of his wife and her husband.
I loved Dinah the heroine and how she never let anyone push her around.
She is the kind of person you would love to have as a friend.
Heyer's characters are always entertaining and amusing but she out did herself with Lola.
Captain Billington Smith was an entertaining character.
If you enjoy mysteries and colorful characters then I totally recommend this book.
Her delightful Regency romances and beautifully researched historical fiction novels have already made it so I can't be trusted to go near Amazon.com, and now-- to my horror-- I find I am devouring at least two of her very smart murder mysteries every week.
Enough about me."The Unfinished Clue" feels more straightforward than some of her other murder mysteries.
Characters like the hilarious exotic dancer, La Lola, still shimmer with the comedic eccentricities that make her dialogue a joy to read, but here they are tempered with other, more restrained personalities.
The mix is effective, and it provides the pitch-perfect balance of chills, thrills and comedic relief.
Georgette Heyer has long been on my to-be-read list.
People have told me that she is the mistress of the romance novel and that I should try her Regencies.
However, what I found, when I wanted something light to distract me, was one of her mysteries.This mystery was fun and interesting, but I will stick with Agatha Christie, Dorothy L.
They are the Grand Dames of the golden era of British mystery and I think their stories are better told.
Or maybe I just like their detectives better.I did like Heyer's style, so I will look for one of her romances at the library.
