https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4954833-brooklyn
It's hard to read anything about books without hearing gushing praise for Brooklyn, so I settled in for a brilliant work about immigration and America and New York and alienation and crushing hard work and etc.
Set partially in 1950-ish Ireland and partly in Brooklyn, the novel follows spineless and benign Eilis through her voyage to the United States (arranged by her sister and a kind priest), where she receives a job, is enrolled some classes, is encouraged to do volunteer work, is set up with lodging at a boarding house, gets picked up and courted by a faultless Italian American, etc.
Our heroine chooses the US over England because those who went to England missed Enniscorthy (the Irish home town) whereas those who went to the US did not.
She gets a job as a retail clerk in a department store and begins experiencing the contrast of life in a semi-rural Irish town to that in a thriving American metropolis.
She feels the pull of Ireland once again and she gets into a position where no matter what she does, she will hurt someone.A line I liked: “She struck Eilis as looking like a horse-dealer’s wife in Enniscorthy on a fair day.”A good story, worth 4 stars rounded up, although I don’t think it’s one of Toibin’s best.
She’s not inarticulate in her head, only in real life, though she tries to suppress her own thoughts as well, “The best thing to do… was to put the whole thing out of her mind”.The gaps in her letters home mean “they would never know her now” and maybe they never had, otherwise they would not have sent her to this strange land where she does not fit.But it’s not just Eilis: all the main characters hide their true selves and desires ((view spoiler)[hence a brief scene with lesbian overtones (hide spoiler)]), and even prevent others from doing so: “It was hard to speak since her mother seemed to have prepared in advance every word that she said” and had a way of “speaking that seemed to welcome no reply”.“Not telling her mother and friends made every day she had spent in America a sort of fantasy.” You can rewrite a fantasy, which makes reticence appealing, but it doesn’t change the truth – or the ramifications.Appropriately, the plot hinges on someone who DOES speak up, but whether the consequences are good or ill is suitably ambiguous.
A simple but universal coming-of-age story, beautifully and gracefully toldUsually I read the book before seeing the movie, but in this case I saw the movie first.
Once in Brooklyn, NY, she adjusts to working in a department store and living in a rooming house, but she’s desperately homesick.
The book’s final section finds her back in Ireland, and the way she sees her old life – what used to be her entire universe – is profound and moving.
The story of journeying from one place to another to build a new life for oneself is universal.
Some books are worth sticking with.  To call this book a slow starter would be to evoke a drastic understatement. After around a hundred or so pages, I was beginning to wonder if this book was actually going anywhere. There was a completer lack of plot, as the mundane life of an ordinary girl unfolded in all its blandness. However, as the novel progressed it built up momentum, ever so slowly until the point where it became a heart racing crescendo of uncertainty. The true shame of this book, an
There was a completer lack of plot, as the mundane life of an ordinary girl unfolded in all its blandness.
Instead I’m going to consider what the novel actually captures.
Decisions are always important, but every so often a decision so powerful will come along that either direction you take will completely alter your life hereafter.
No matter how bland and ordinary our lives may appear, you can’t predict what may happen in your life.
So here is a book that has very little in the way of actual plot, but I urge other readers to look beyond that.
Then Eilis, the younger of two sisters living at home with their mother, has a whole new life arranged for her in New York.
The story then settled into how she built her new life, complete with a job at a clothing store, night classes to learn bookkeeping, relations with her catty fellow boarders, and ultimately with Tony, his brothers, and the Dodgers.
Then again, I wondered whether an era like that when polite behavior and higher standards were de rigueur would be more likely to come down hard on subtle deviations.
2.5 Stars I'm sorry to say BROOKLYN was a disappointing read for me.It was slow going throughout most of the story with a kind of monotone dialogue, and while I did find Eilis's initial trip from Ireland to America kind of fun and interesting, her life while in America was day-after-day of repetitive boredom for the reader.
(at least for me)As for Eilis herself, at first I thought she showed strength of character and heart, but by the end of the story, well.....I admit to hoping for her demise!
Brooklyn is a wonderful character portrait and captures as well the struggle of an Irish immigrant to the US in the post war world.
=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, and FB pagesAn article in The Guardian from October 10, 2015 - Colm Tóibín on filming his novel Brooklyn: 'Everyone in my home town wanted to be an extra'An NPR interview of Toibin by Jacki Lyden An article from The Telegraph - May 21, 2015 - by Olivia Parker - Colm Tóibín: Writing is always a battle against your own lazinessSaw the film on Tuesday.
Mr. Toibin's BROOKLYN felt rushed, a bit glossed over, too formulaic for me to honestly believe the character of Eilis Lacey (and the name bothered me as much as her lack of substance).
Eilis just waltzes in an smiles pleasantly at times when Mr. Toibin wants us to know what she's doing.
It makes me wonder if Mr. Toibin schemed to pull a great private joke over all of us who really want to gush about it and hug it to our heaving bosoms ala "Bridges of Madison County" (gag-gag).The most interesting thing about this book was looking over the accolades from those who reviewed it.
Although I vacilated between sympathizing with the main character and wondering at her thought processes, in the end, I was disappointed in her behavior, choices and the ending of this book.
The novel moves quickly, although it covers a span of two years it is only 262 pages.
Things happen, big things, without any fanfare, as they do for all of us, every day in real life.The novel’s protagonist, Ellis Lacey, is so fully rendered that you almost immediately sense that you know her (probably you just recognize a bit of yourself) within the first few pages of the text.
For the last 40 pages, I could/ would not put the novel down.
When I look at major moments in my own life they just happened, and then they were done.
It is the story of Eilis, a young woman from small-town Ireland who moves to America in the 1950s and finds herself all alone in the strange city of Brooklyn.
It's a beautiful story, and one I will cherish.Favorite Quotes"Until now, Eilis had always presumed that she would live in the town all her life, as her mother had done, knowing everyone, having the same friends and neighbours, the same routines in the same streets.
A coming of age story about an Irish working-class girl who immigrates all alone to Brooklyn.
The protagonist, the prose, the setting, the story, right down to the 50’s era, a simpler time.
Not to be confused with easy, never that.
Thought Colm’s depiction of Eilis Lacey’s feelings of alienation "the rest of her life would be a struggle with the unfamiliar" & battle with depression "all of the colour had been washed out of her world" well done.
With conflict & the complications of life kicking in  "The answer was that there was no answer, that nothing she could do would be right.
When I finished this novel I felt as if I had just been uprooted.
Every time a new sentence in which in the first half the character declared her intentions and was followed by a second half which started with ‘but’, I just cringed.
She was not believable.What could have been a fascinating analysis of the trauma brought by emigration, in which uprooting means leaving the subject exposed to a degree that makes it difficult to predict whether those exposed roots will be able to provide a base again, was for me left unresolved.When I finished the novel, then, I felt uprooted.
Basically it’s a concise and artful study of the sensibility of a young girl who suddenly finds herself uprooted - a young Irish girl, Eilis who, faced with a lack of opportunities at home, is encouraged by her sister to emigrate alone to Brooklyn.
Eilis herself is both easily pleased and fickle.
She appears to suffer from a lack of imagination which means ultimately she will always choose the pragmatic option.
I tend to favour writers who are capable of formulating sentences beyond my own capabilities, who can enliven the world with feats of linguistic artistry and there is no such writing in Brooklyn for which I’m going to be a bit stingy with my stars.
OK, Man Booker award people, listen up! If this book doesn't win this year, you are dead to me, you hear?I've said it elsewhere on this site, but it bears repeating. Colm Toibin is a genius. This is a man who has, on various occasions brought me inside the heads of:• a gay man in Ireland suffering from AIDS and the women in his family ("The Blackwater Lightship")• a compromised Argentine English teacher exploring his sexuality in the time of the fall of the military junta (“The Story of the nigh
This is a man who has, on various occasions brought me inside the heads of:•	a gay man in Ireland suffering from AIDS and the women in his family ("The Blackwater Lightship")•	a compromised Argentine English teacher exploring his sexuality in the time of the fall of the military junta (“The Story of the night”)•	Henry James in his middle years (“The Master”)•	an IRA gunman turned art thief (“Mothers and Sons”)•	an Irish high court judge (“The Heather Blazing”)•	and, most recently, Eilis Lacey, the stunningly ordinary, but completely unforgettable, heroine of “Brooklyn”, his latest novel.Where does Toibin’s particular genius lie?
It’s because Toibin lets his characters take over in a way that few other authors manage to do.
It glanced at the possibility of same-gender harassment by a boss, when no one else was in the facility, leading me to anticipate additional similar events or tension or conflict.
It glanced at the tension between Irish and Italians in Brooklyn in the 1950s, but -- again, nothing.
I enjoyed reading Brooklyn, in terms of the easiness of Toibin's prose style.
But his 1950's Brooklyn isn't real to me.
Not surprising, really.My 3 stars probably should be 2 stars, but Brooklyn is an easy read and deserves credit for that.
Original Review, posted June 7, 2009This gentle, quietly resonant novel showed me a new side of Colm Tóibín's writing.
At first blush it seems a simple coming-of-age story of a young Irish immigrant alone in New York.
But Tóibín, though he writes with affection, keeps enough distance from his characters to allow his reader to form opinions about the choices these characters make and the motivations behind their actions.
Tóibín allows Eilis, his young immigrant, to experience her life without clouding her actions in pop-psychology self-awareness.
Toibin indulges in long descriptive passages telling us about his protagonist's state of mind, her intentions and reasons and her reflections on events.
This, for me, is a telling manifestation of the characterisation problem.
Toibin can not give these characters a voice - because he does not really believe in them.
I completely disagree with the reviewers in the British media and the New York Times who are falling over themselves to find the positives in this novel.
One reviewer suggests that the novel is in some way deceptively simple and subversive.
This is a book about Eilis Lacey, a young woman who, searching for better job opportunities, moves from Enniscorthy, Ireland, not far from Dublin, to Brooklyn in NYC.
The extent to which you enjoy this book and which of the three themes you see as most important will depend upon your own age, personality and experiences.
Even if I do not like Eilis’ meek character, her lack of gumption and her total inability to think for herself, the choices she ends up making feel like the choices such a person would make.
It starts with Eilis growing up in 1950’s Ireland with her older sister, Rose.
When the family has a visit from an Irish American priest, things are quickly set in motion, paperwork, employment, accommodation are all arranged and Eilis is on her way to New York !
I loved the feel of New York in the 50’s through Eilis’ eyes, dances, baseball, trips to Coney Island and Manhattan.
Then her life changes, decisions have to be made, you can really feel and understand the constraints of the period, through the expectations of her mother, the priest, even her landlady in Brooklyn.......
3.5/5 stars▶ Well, you're about to enter the land of the free and the brave▶ Wear your coat over your arm and look as though you know where you're going▶ Don't look too innocent▶ Try not to look so frightened▶ The only thing they can stop you for is if they think you have TB, so don't cough whatever you do▶ Brooklyn changes every day▶ New people arrive and they could be Jewish or Irish or Polish or even coloured.Set in the 1950's, in a time after the second world war, this relates the story of Eilis Lacey, a young Irish woman, who with the help of her older sister and a priest gets an opportunity to leave her small Irish town to seek a better life in America.
It was not the most compelling or riveting book I have ever read, yet the gentle tone surrounding the story of an Irish girl settling all alone in America, with just a priest as her only contact with home, was deeply touching.
The realism of her life in transition, and her efforts to adjust in both worlds - a small town in Ireland, versus the big city, New York in America - is very real.
Lonelines, homesickness, combined with new opportunities and a broader exposure to more cultures, ultimately leads to unforeseen, regrettable decisions, spurred by her innocence, unworldliness and her unwillingness to take the lead.

“She felt almost guilty that she had handed some of her grief to him, and then she felt close to him for his willingness to take it and hold it, in all its rawness, all its dark confusion.” ― Colm Tóibín, BrooklynSometimes you read a book because you want to be overloaded.
This is a violin solo and a ballet.I own a bunch of Colm Tóibín (I purchased this, The Master, The Story of the Night, The South, etc., right before we went to Ireland last year, but ended up reading another couple Irish writers*).
There are few job prospects--or marital prospects--in the village so her mother and sister give Eilis an opportunity to immigrate to America.
She comes from a family that is placid on the surface, with little discussion of their emotions.An Irish-American priest in Brooklyn arranges for Eilis to work in a department store, live in a boardinghouse with other Irish girls, and take night courses in bookkeeping.
I often wondered how many emotions Eilis was hiding below the surface and wished I could see more into her mind, especially at the end of the book.
The author does a great job of entering into the mind of a young girl and I especially enjoyed his descriptions of her loneliness and romantic aspirations.
I also really enjoyed the sharply observed period detail.
This was also true of prevailing moral attitudes and the author did a thoroughly convincing job of creating this more censorious climate.
It’s a simple story with ostensibly not much at stake except the emotional wellbeing of a young girl but the author’s perceptive observations gave this story a depth beyond its surface storyline.
I didn’t quite love it but I certainly enjoyed it.
Set in the 1950s, Eilis Lacey, a young Irish girl leaves her home and family for the promise of a better life in Brooklyn, a decision which is forced upon her by a kindly priest and her sister, who wants a better life than what her small town in Ireland promises.
Upon arrival in Brooklyn, her housing is obtained for her by the same priest, who is also kind enough to arrange a job for her, as well.
Eventually Eilis begins to spend time outside work and school outside of her room, but mainly out of obligation to the priest.
Brooklyn tells the tale of a young Irish girl named Eilis who, unable to find suitable work, leaves her home behind her for the opportunities that America, and in particular Brooklyn, has to offer.  “She was nobody here. It was not just that she had no friends and family; it was rather that she was a ghost in this room, in the streets on the way to work, on the shop floor. Nothing meant anything. The rooms in the house on Friary Street belonged to her, she thought; when she moved in them she was
“Until now, Eilis had always presumed that she would live in the town all her life, as her mother had done, knowing everyone, having the same friends and neighbours, the same routines in the same streets.
We have got A LOT of green!!!) But this time it didn’t feel like some tourist board advertisement, the descriptions of Enniscorthy town, of the surrounding Wexford countryside… it all felt more authentic, tangible.
Colm Tóibín himself is from Enniscorthy and you could really feel his grá (love) for his hometown in how he wrote Eilis.And then when the action of the novel moved to America it felt very real too...
It's the people she encounters along the way - how they help or hinder her - and what that reveals about the journey (physical, emotional) she is experiencing.Toibin shows us Eilis's world as an individual story - but a representative one, too.
I especially loved the way the immigrant/emigrant experience was presented in the duality of personality that Eilis came to feel, which made her choice - at the end - all the more wrenching.The scene of the two black women buying stockings (colour: Red Fox) where Eilis works - and where she has been hand-picked to serve this new `target market` - is masterful.
