https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203799.Vincent_Van_Gogh
I read this entire book twice and decided to do my book report about non-fiction in middle school on this book since I'd read it anyways.
I didn't prepare any script or plan due to poor time management and fear of public speaking.
I simply discussed Van Gogh's life chronologically and afterwards, explained the progression or evolution of his art throughout his career -- while staring at one specific person politely nodding as my lifesaver.
Unfortunately, there are not many other subjects or speeches I've ever been able to breeze through or ever get an A on ever again.
Thank gosh for participation and homework points, am I right?
i dont know why the people in his ara didnot like his unique style in painting......anyway it's recomened to read this book about his life...and get the opportunity to see his great wark
This book was written by German art critic Julius Meier-Graefe, and is probably best appreciated by those who have an initial understanding of the art, the techniques, and the artists who were peers of Vincent van Gogh. To me, the book was a mix of a brief biography of Van Gogh, and a discussion of the evolution of his art. It's not well suited to the audiobook format unless the reader (listener) is familiar with the art and artists mentioned. I got litle out of this book.
In preparation for our upcoming trip to the The Netherlands and our visit to the Vincent Van Gogh museum in Amsterdam, I appreciated Meier-Graefe's biography of this favorite Dutch son. His account is full of warmth between them, a summary of art in the late 19th century and a study of the complex relationships among the artists who had an impact on the Van Gogh brothers. The inclusion of 61 plates of Van Gogh's work is helpful.
It was written way back, now there are more findings about what prompted his to commit suicide and many more incidents.. still this book covers most of his feelings and fears.
This book was not the best starter read for Vincent Van Gogh.
I would have liked to see more of his paintings as referenced, and I would have benefited from a more extensive knowledge of artists from the Dutch Golden Era and Impressionists/post-Impressionists movement.
In short, this was best accompanied by the internet and felt more like a research project than a synopsis.
With that being said, I intend to follow-this up with a more visual book on Vincent Van Gogh, and I have a feeling this research will make that experience more rewarding.What I did love about this book was the hint at Vincent's purity of heart- something that I think got washed away with time on account of his mental illness.
I feel that this book is a great volume in general to own because it give you and overview of Van Goghs life i feel it is best for those first learning about Van Gogh personal life while those who already know more of vincent might find it a bit plain.
it is a book that tries its best to paint a beautiful pictures of a man who painted beautiful pictures and it does succeed but all too often i feel that the author goes a bit to far in prose and either concentrates too much on a miniscule thing or doesn't go into much detail about the situation at hand.
It was great to finally get a better insight into Van Gogh. This book was written at a time when eye witnesses would be alive. Some insights about mental illness reflect the time it was written. It has left me wanting to know more.
I enjoyed this early biography of the subject. An interesting look at the societies he lived in during his short life from Holland,to Paris, and also time spent in Belgium and the South of France. Also information about the people he was closest to in his family and artistic circles.
Very well written bio of a very interesting artist. Very weird of course which is what made him so interesting. I always knew of his life but this book gave many details which I was not aware of.
Great book!
