https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25526965-end-of-watch
End of Watch.You are getting all five stars.Former Detective Hodges in now partners with Holly in a firm called "Finders Keepers"..they get a call from Hodges old buddy Pete about a pair of deaths that might have something to do with the Mercedes killer Brady Hartsfield in a way and he would like their insight at the crime scene.
I'm leaving a bunch out of this review but I don't want to spoil anything for this book.
I knew that the book was probably going to head off in a way that I didn't want it too and Stephen King didn't let me win on that one.
With End of Watch, I feel the series as a whole is a must-read experience, as each book compliments the next.
Now what am I supposed to do?Final Judgment: A fitting farewell.Spoiler Discussion: Wherein I spoil Mr. Mercedes, End of Watch, and Joe Hill's The Fireman, along with a minor spoiler for a story in The Bazaar of Bad Dreams(view spoiler)[Here is all the evidence I have compiled to support my theory that this or the final Jack Sawyer novel will be King's last published works:1.
Nothing left now but the final Jack Sawyer novel, which Straub and King have been working on since 2005.2.
On the other hand it’s still pretty much a shoulder shrug of a three star read which tells you how little I thought of this trilogy so I’m pretty sure that cup is half-empty after all.Uncle Stevie tried his hand at doing a straight up crime thriller with Mr. Mercedes, but I found it to be a painful slog of poor plotting, uneven pacing, and a main character who came across as a reckless and irresponsible jackass.
From bed on my iPhone at 3:30am ....It’s OVER ....
and I’m a little sad!!!
I’m going to miss Bill Hodges - and Holly - and Jerome...and Pete...
Business is as usual with THE KING....
Mr. Mercedes and Finders Keepers ‘could’ possibly be read as stand alone books ...but End of Watch wouldn’t make any sense unless you read ‘both’ the other two books.
I liked the choices Stephen King made with End of Watch, ......Parts were killer satisfying and parts were just killer sad ....
BECAUSE I MISS THEM!!!If anyone knows or hears of TV mini series or movie ....
please let me know!!!
END.
is unfortunately the end of the Bill Hodges trilogy.
I will miss Detective Kermit William Hodges, (his personal story) and his computer-wiz brainy partner Holly Gibney, but not what's in Room 217 of the Traumatic Brain Injury Clinic at Kiner Memorial.BOOK 3 begins with a flashback of the horrendous Mercedes rundown of innocents standing in line at a job fair (no spoiler here) and flows right into retired Detective Hodges obsession with the creepy evil maniac, Brady Wilson Hartsfield who he periodically still visits and verbally torments knowing full well he is not completely gone.END.
WATCH.
WATCH.
I'm going to try and make this review as quick and painless as possible -- if you liked this book you're not going to want to hear me bellyache about it, and if you didn't like this book, you already feel you've wasted enough of your precious reading time on this series and are just ready to move the fuck on (and hope King is too).
Things started out sort of optimistic for me with Mr. Mercedes -- I didn't hate it; in fact, some parts of it I really enjoyed.
King's efforts to unravel his "mystery" with excessive plot details felt like excruciating, eye-crossing infodumps at times.
End of Watch was the most KING book of the trilogy.
Mr Mercedes and Finders Keepers were almost like King's take on a detective/crime series, it had good story telling, with great character building (typical King, eh?) but then End of Watch comes and King is unable to unleash all the traits that we know and love him for.
And if King can build a story and introduce me to characters that have that much of an impact on me, then that book is getting a 5 star rating (even if it wasn't perfect for me).
Anyway, I thought it was a really cool and creepy addition to the madness that is Brady Hartsfield (Mr. Mercedes) And now I know what all of the fish on the cover of the book meant, especially little pink!
I mean this jerk has went to some crazy ways to kill people but this last one took the cake!
I mean if there was some freak out there killing people, I would be watching every little thing.
End of Watch is fiction, but the high rate of suicides--both in the United States and in many other countries where my books are read--is all too real.
Both stories work very well as standalone pieces, but when you add in this third book then it’s very clear that the three must be read as a full set in order to extract full value.This time around Hodges is in from the start again and I won't spoil the storyline for any prospective readers other than to say that it does involve telekinesis (the ability to move objects using the power of the mind).
I didn't think I’d like this element – a key foundation stone of the plot – I just don't believe in this kind of stuff and anytime anything even vaguely paranormal is introduced into a story it's normally the last line I read.
4.5 stars.
My favorite of the trilogy!
It was exactly what I was hoping for.
A blend of the horror I love from SK and the suspense/crime continuing from the first 2 books.
Fast-paced, great characters, and just overall well done.
June 7th, 2016.
Give it to me now!Update: after finishing Finders Keepers, I'm even more excited for this!
The ending with Brady leaves me wondering...
Wonder if King will be tying in something supernatural to this crime trilogy...Update #2: THE COVER AHHH!
But it's awesome and I can't stop looking at it and now June can't come fast enough!
Not my favorite of the series, but a good finish to a series I enjoyed a lot.This book is more of a sequel to Mr. Mercedes than the 3rd book in series.
But, I don't recommend that as the second book of the series was my favorite!I like Holly and Bill - they were a great team, and not conventional in any way.
Love to hate him, am I right?Only issues with this one (view spoiler)[the game console thing was unique but did seem a little contrived.
(hide spoiler)]Sad to see the series come to an end.
'Payback is a bitch, and the bitch is back.'Brady Hartsfield isn't hurting anybody these days.
And Dr. Felix Babineau doesn't bite.
Thought fish, eye-traps, seeds of suggestion, telekinesis, the big payback.
Brady, the Mercedes killer, is safely ensconced in a center for those with Traumatic Brain Injury.
Five years have passed since he pulled his murderous shenanigans in Mr. Mercedes.
Ready to find out just what is going on behind that waxy face and those vacant eyes?Retired police detective Bill Hodges has never bought off on Brady's drooling-in-his-shoe act there in the hospital.
Hodges knows enough to follow his gut.
The first two books really exceeded my expectations, but this concluding novel really left a bitter taste in my mouth.Brady is one of the reasons why I really enjoyed the first two books, but unfortunately he didn't deliver the same way he did in this third novel.
I know Stephen King wanted to incorporate some paranormal aspects to this crime trilogy, but for me it didn't work out that well.
I loved Stephen King's other paranormal/horror novels, but this trilogy was supposed to be his crime series.
Hodges is still one of my favorite Stephen King characters, and I'm glad that he is still interesting in this novel.
Yeah, yeah, yeah when I started this book I really felt like it was going to be my favorite of the trilogy (which I still argue isn't the right term...
but I digress.....) because Stephen King went back to full Stephen King mode, and I was having fun with the whole thing, but gee golly sunshine if he didn't just double down on one of the dumbest, laziest, cheesiest endings to a story that I've ever read.
But good gravy the end of this stupid book was so hard to read.
is still man enough to tangle with the likes of Brady who is in what is supposed to be a catatonic state after Holly poured a ball bearing laced tallboy can of whoopass on him at the end of the first book.But this is Stephen King after all and we must remember the edicts of King’s Law: If things can get creepy, they will.Brady takes a Marvel mutant turn for the supernatural with the aid of some experimental drugs and things drive off into a left field that Fenway never imagined.
Well, it looks like SK has gone back to his roots in this one, and far from complaining, I had a great time.Mind you, it wasn't the plot or the supernatural element that I loved, although the development and the execution were interesting, very Shocker-like.
Instead, I liked the characters.
If you don't like the characters, you won't like these books.
Let's take it supernatural.
Let's make it a bit sick.
I dithered backwards and forwards over five stars or four but then decided that although I enjoyed it enormously it did not have that wow factor that makes it a five.
It certainly tied up all loose ends and I loved the roles played by Hodges and Holly.
King could have written a whole series based on the exploits of these two!Although most of the book was great - and I always love it when King dips into the supernatural and things become odd and gruesome - the ending fell flat for me.
So pretty much five stars until the last couple of chapters and then not so good!
The reader gathers the shards of literary glass King left with the end of the previous book, as Bill Hodges is called to the scene of an apparent murder-suicide, a favour by his former partner.
As the story progresses, someone close to Hodges is involved in an accident that could have been suicidal in nature, only to learn that a handheld console, a Zap-It, apparently lulled the potential victim into throwing herself in front of a car.
As Hartsfield remains in the hospital, he seems to be able to use these telekinetic powers to have others do his bidding as he continues to haunt those he was unable to kill.
"She wipes her eyes almost angrily. 'This is just so fracking poopy'."60% in and I am zappit-ing this one. I did read the final pages to learn the inevitable fate of Hodges.Although I enjoyed the first two in the series, I'm turning off my e-reader with no reader rewards from this one. I'm just thankful it didn't hypnotize me into finishing. End of watch and reading. :-/
[3.5 Stars]
“Look at the fish. Tap the pink ones. Come on, Billy-boy, tap those pink fish!”  Make sure you get all the pinkies! That’s all the fun!This was a BR with The one with great tats and The one with purple hair. Unfortunately, it went completely awry. Craig finished way too quickly and poor Orient was taken down by RL! Better luck next time, fellow Sladists? I hope so. Mr. Mercedes was my initiation to the great master that is Stephen King. It was the first thing I ever read from him. Yes, I read i
Thank you!As I was saying, this series introduced me to an amazing author who I completely love and it turned me into a ‘Constant Reader’.
Damn you, man!Anyhoo….So this series starts of as a straight forward detective thingy, a game of cat and mouse and a race against time.
The book is simply an exciting read and even though it isn’t one of the best of SK, it’s definitely a great one.One other thing that I really like about Stephen King’s books and this might sound weird but what the hell.
The cast of characters from the first two books has returned mostly intact, including Hodges; his partner, Holly Gibney, and Brady Hartsfield, the maniac whose crime spree set the trilogy in motion.
For almost six years, Hartsfield has been hospitalized, apparently in a persistent vegetative state, but Hodges still suspects that Hartsfield might be faking his illness in an effort to avoid prosecution for his crimes.As this book opens, Bill and Holly are called to a death scene by Bill's former partner, Pete Huntley.
Yep. Giving this one 5 stars. Not just entirely for this one alone, but for the Bill Hodges Trilogy as a whole. What a great series. King is the king at character development and you can really “feel” it with this series of books. Each very good separately, they really shine as a whole. Damn, King is a great writer. I don’t give a shit about being technically proficient or using proper sentence structure and grammar. What I care about is the emotion. The characters. The story. King is a master storyteller. Yep.
Absolutely excellent. The perfect ending to a great trilogy.PRE-READING THOUGHTS: The wait is killlliiiinnnnggggg me
Not many do, but Mr. King is taking up more than his fair share of my precious long-term memory storage.
I’ve had a few ideas for short stories around this concept, and then Mr. King comes along and nails it.
When he combines it with the perils and despair of suicide, it became a fascinating plot that I couldn’t turn away from, even if I wanted to.I’ve been a devote King fan for a very long time and this just continues to keep him at the top.
The next time you reach for your phone to play some addictive little game, you’ll think of it.
The cop motioned the ambo forward, his beckoning arm seeming to stutter in the swinging glare of the lightbar atop his cruiser…”-	Stephen King, End of Watch End of Watch, the concluding volume of Stephen King’s so-called Bill Hodges Trilogy, begins at the same place as volumes one and two: the City Center parking lot.
By revisiting City Center from different angles, though, he turns the murderous event (which has been mimicked by real-life events subsequent to the first book) from a plot-instigator into something deeper, a psychic wound felt by all of King’s characters.
To be honest, I wasn't tickled pink by the paranormal component to this story; which is weird, because it's King and it's mostly what he's known for.
I also had a hard time buying that a serious, logical man such as Bill Hodges, would have so easily bought the premise of this story.
Overall, I enjoyed the heck out of this audio book, narrated by the fabulous Will Patton, and I would recommend it to those who've already read the first two in the series.
(Admit it, you know you do.) Second of all, simply because it's the King.
One has to question the point of reviewing this one; if you've read the first two books in the trilogy, you're probably not going to stop now.
If you haven't read the first two, you'd be better off going off to look for a review of the first book, Mr. Mercedes.So, just to give my opinion, I bloody loved this book.
It was everything I wanted from the final part of the trilogy and more.The only reason I can think anybody might be disappointed in the book would be if they liked the fact that the first two books in the series were largely devoid of supernatural elements, whereas this instalment embraces the supernatural horror wholeheartedly.
This is the third book in Stephen King's "Bill Hodges Trilogy."  SPOILER ALERT  This review contains information about the first two books in the trilogy. So if you haven't read them yet you might want to stop reading now. In the first book, Mr. Mercedes, a sociopath named Brady Hartsfield drives a Mercedes into a crowd, causing numerous deaths and injuries. Retired detective Bill Hodges makes it his mission to nab the culprit and puts together a sort of ragtag team to do the job. This includes
Retired detective Hodges, however, suspects that Brady might have more going on upstairs than he lets on, and - as things turn out - Hodges is right!In this third book in the trilogy, End of Watch - which takes place five years after the events in Mr. Mercedes - Brady Hartsfield has come out of his coma, is somewhat aware of what's going on around him, and can even say a few muddled words.
In fact Holly is probably my favorite character in this story.This book provides a very satisfying finale to a good trilogy.
SWEDISH REVIEW Innan jag recenserar denna bok vill jag bara säga att det har varit en intressant trilogi att läsa. det har inte varit min favorit trilogi för att vara ärlig, men ändå har den varit tillfredsställande. Mr. Mercedes, den första boken i series, var för mig den svagaste. Jag föll varken för story eller dess karaktärer. Men, Den som finner, uppföljaren funkade mycket bättre, även om stora delen av boken kändes som att läsa en bok som inte alls var del av denna serie. Slutligen har vi
det har inte varit min favorit trilogi för att vara ärlig, men ändå har den varit tillfredsställande.
Men, Den som finner, uppföljaren funkade mycket bättre, även om stora delen av boken kändes som att läsa en bok som inte alls var del av denna serie.
I Den som finner får vi en titt in i Bradys liv efter att han stoppades i boken Mr. Mercedes, men i Sista vakten får vi äntligen den fulla berättelsen och äntligen en slutlig konfrontation mellan Brady och Bill Hodges.
Sista vakten är mycket bra och jag är överraskad över hur mycket jag gillade boken med tanke på att jag inte var jätteimponerad över de föregående böckerna.
