https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80329.Kant_and_the_Problem_of_Metaphysics
Using Kantian language Heidegger will explain Kant when he says, we live within a ‘transcendental deduction’ and pure absolutes gives us our reality, and our finitude gives us our determination from the indeterminate.
It’s a way of saying that the finite (Dasein, the thing that takes a stand on its own understanding) is the source of meaning.In ‘Being and Time’ Heidegger assumes Being thus giving it meaning.
This book is a must for those who enjoy Kant’s ‘Critique of Pure Reason’ and Heidegger’s ‘Being and Time’ and understand why Nietzsche and Kierkegaard bemoan the atomization of the world and how philosophy made a wrong turn with Descartes.
Then the Imagination makes that information further available for the faculty of Reason, to allow Reason and, by extension us, to think about the world as a commonsense or scientific system.
When Kant sometimes writes this way, it seems as though the most fundamental faculty is the faculty of Imagination, and not only that, it seems to be the most important.I think Heidegger's work is great at pointing up this aspect of Kant's Critique.
Often misunderstood as mere epistemology, Kant's work, especially as explicated by Heidegger herein, accomplished more than he could have realized in his lifetime.
Heidegger used this work to put a grounding under his earlier work, Being and Time, and its does make you want to read Being and Time again, but more importantly, for me, it refreshes my clarity in my work on the epistemology of higher consciousness.
But, for me, it underscores the profound purpose of meditation in overcoming conceptual/scientific thinking and opens the door to a higher realization of the nature of the ground of our being.
En effet, la violence de l’interprétation heideggérienne est si forte qu’on pourrait la comparer à un individu qui voudrait fixer une assiette de porcelaine sur un mur à l’aide d’un pistolet à clous de 4 pouces de diamètre.
D’autre part, comme l’horizon de la philosophie qui était le sien au moment de l’écriture de ce travail est devenu incommensurable à celui qu’a pris sa philosophie après le tournant d’après, guerre, il ne se sent pas capable de rien y changer sans avoir à reprendre tout l’ouvrage, d’où son invitation au lecteur à s’instruire de ses défauts.

This is transcendental imagination as time as the root and unity of understanding and sensibility.
nao terminei de verdade!!!!
Ok, I've pretty much read it, left only with the last chapter.
I've spent a while familiarizing myself with Kant from secondary sources and online lectures before diving into this.
For me the book's follow-able.
In certain respects, you don't have to have the whole of the first critique under your belt.
This is because Heidegger doesn't deal with material from the Transcendental Dialectic onwards.
It's mainly the Transcendental Aesthetic and Analytic (which forms less than half of the first critique).
As long as you're familiar with Kant's architectonic and jargon in these sections, you should do ok.
