https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14893.Maggie_Now
A recent review of, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, by one of my goodreads friends sent me to recalling all the Betty Smith books that I loved over the years.
Maggie's husband leaves her every year to search for some missing key to his life and his impetus is a breeze.A common thread that runs through Smith's stories is women and their often unreasoning loyalty to the men in their lives.
Maggie accepts Claude's absences and welcomes him home again just like the tired, hard-working mother in A Tree remains loyal to her drunken husband.
This was a great vacation read. I am a HUGE Betty Smith fan; A Tree Grows In Brooklyn is probably my favorite book and this does not disappoint. That being said, this book is very similar in setting and tone...almost too similar. I enjoyed it and once I finished it, found myself feeling as I do with any book I love: a little lost and curious as to what I should do with my time. Always a sign of a good read!
Claude is just bizarre--not from Brooklyn, clearly, highly educated, no family, no idea, really, where he comes from, and he does like Vianne in Chocolat and Mary Poppins and leaves when he feels the pull of the wind.
I thought that was just a hair farfetched, actually, but I still liked him as a character.
I hope Maggie-Now gets to be happy in the future--Betty Smith always does end her books with lots of loose ends.
I'm always thinking and hoping about the fate of the main characters when I close the book.
I wouldn't recommend this as anyone's gateway Betty Smith (start with A Tree Grows in Brooklyn!), but Maggie-Now has got the heart, the humor, and the more-than-competent and never-maudlin depiction of sacrifice and struggle of her other novels.
Overall, I wouldn't say this is the best Betty Smith--it drags sometimes, and the characters WILL be stubborn and jealous and mean to an almost laughable point over and over and over again, and they will make bad decisions over and over and over again and make little to no sense of their mistakes, and things will keep getting worse before they get better (and, trust me, things do get at least a little better).
And in this novel's protagonist, there just isn't a whole lot there - Maggie-Now is the proverbial doormat, and knowing she enjoys being the doormat doesn't really make her any more compelling.
She puts up with a husband who won't tell her who he is, where he came from, where he works, or where he goes when he disappears for 3/4's of the year, and we're supposed to believe that the freshness of the sex when he returns is enough to make up for everything else.
I'm not buying it - I don't care how giving and shallow Maggie-Now was supposed to be.
But this time around, I recognized the seeds of many of my own values from its emphasis and importance of a house that is clean, scrubbed and polished.
Also the many skills and responsibilities of women who kept house.
I still strive to keep my house clean.
The other skills are more manifest in the desire to be competent, industrious and tough.There are gems of discussion and insight i.e. religious belief, honoring and respecting people despite their wealth or poverty as well as what is love really?
And within that story is her development as a generous giving soul trying to find a balance with her own needs, her vocation and her responsibilities.
It's completely different, to be sure: I think that Smith deliberately makes all the characters in MAGGIE-NOW unsympathetic, which is more like reality than we'd like to admit.
However, it's literature, dudes, and self-involved human reader that I am, I'm not going to spend several hours of my life on people who are never happy, won't ever be happy, and don't deserve to be happy, not on account of unfortunate external circumstances but because of their own mindsets.There are plenty of books with unsympathetic characters that I appreciate (the book, and their depiction of those characters, not the characters themselves), and it's not like Smith does this badly.
Let me first say that I love Betty Smith.
Her books tug at my heart without making me cry, they are brutal and honest yet beautiful and true.
I don't think Betty Smith quite knew what this book was about, and as a result it lacks cohesion.
She admits this about herself, and that's great, self-knowledge is a good thing, but it doesn't make for a very interesting protagonist.
As Betty Smith novels go, I would read this if you are a huge fan of her writing, but don't go out of your way to find a copy.
Once she emerged well into the book it changed for me and while at times I wanted to give her a strong wake up call and scream for her to not be a doormat, she was true to herself and what she needed and wanted is not necessarily viewed by others as a strong and steady relationship with one's father, brother and husband.
In the end, however, I was wiping tears as I mourned with her for years of what could have been, but at the same time I was thrilled with the hint of who and want she would become.
Betty Smith is my favorite author, and this book gave me a lot to think about. I thought it was very interesting how Maggie and Patsy had some of the same characteristics, but made opposite choices when it came to the big stuff. I love how Betty Smith recreates the world as she knew it as a child (even though the characters are created). I feel like I learn a lot about the time period and the areas when I read her books. Little details make the picture so clear, without ever being excessive.
This is a lesser-known novel by the author of A Tree Grows In Brooklyn. Maggie (nicknamed "Maggie-Now" as a child - that's what her mother was always saying to her) is an utterly provincial working-class girl of Irish descent at the turn of the twentieth century who marries a free spirit. She never leaves Brooklyn, but their unconventional marriage takes her outside herself - for the better.
I was 13 when I first read this book. I found it in a box in a old farmhouse we lived in and since I was/am an insatiable reader I picked it up. This was in 1970 and I have never forgot the book it was and still is one of my favorite books. It is just so sad that she gave and gave emotionally and still lost everything she loved.
LOVED this book. Betty Smith is now one of my favorite authors. As I've said before, I only wish that she would have written more books. I have one more to read, Tomorrow Will Be Better. Maggie-Now follows Patrick Denny and then his daughter, Maggie and son, Denny. It is such a lovely, touching, and endearing story about family and love and loss. I enjoyed it SO much.
I liked this book almost as much as A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. I first read this as a pre-teen, then later re-read it a few years ago. I then dove into whatever information I could find on Betty Smith. Sure enough, her own life and romances were similar to those of Maggie Now. Betty Smith had a tendency to have romances with men that had either had drinking problems and/or were unreliable.
This is one of my two favorite books of all time. And Patrick Dennis Moore is one of my favorite characters ever! I can't even explain why I love this book so much, but I have read it so many times, and I get something different out of it in each phase of my life. Betty Smith is such a great writer. I am so grateful for this and her other novels.
I really tried to like this book.
Patrick eventually gets a job working for a man as a stable boy and the man's daughter is taken by Patrick but Patrick has gone and wished he had never left Ireland and wished he married the girl, named Margaret, but when he runs into Margarets brother again and he has news that his little sister is super happy and married a distraught Patrick decides he might as well marry the man's daughter and inherit the business.
I have a feeling that this will end up being one of my favorite books I read this year. And not just because it has my name in the title.
I started reading this book probably two years ago, maybe longer and I quit halfway through because I found the story boring.
Claude Basset is not a bad man, he truly loves Maggie but he is a born wonderer, being an orphan, and every spring leaves Maggie to go look for his birth parents.
Maggie loves Claude, which is her one fault, and waits for him every year to come home in the winter, then she lets him leave again in the spring.
It is a story about Patrick and Maggie-Now and their lives are just boring.
Maggie-Now is put in an untenable situation of having to raise her brother while she is in her teens and, when she grows up and finally has the opportunity to choose personal freedom or a continued life of sacrifice, she meets exactly the kind of wild, loving and damaged man who will force her to choose the latter.If Maggie-Now is the heart of the story, quietly adjusting to the changes in her circumstances, constantly yielding (if often begrudgingly) to the whims of others, her irascible father Patsy is the polar opposite: unwilling to budge, incapable of listening to reason and doggedly determined to be his authentic, unapologetic self.Maggie-Now suffers lightly from a lack of cohesion, but is still a beautiful read and a favorite of mine.
I felt that the nuances of her characters in those books made them understandable even if they were not always loveable.
I found myself struggling to understand why she allowed herself to remain stuck in a lifestyle of unrequited love, whether it be with her parents, her husband, her brother, or her foster children.
We all know a Maggie-Now and families like hers, those who live life with seemingly little introspection or motivation to seek something better.
Maggie-Now, for all her life lacks, never seems to question her lot, in doing so, shows a degree of acceptance that those constantly seeking more and better may never attain.
3.5 Stars.I didn't expect to love this book on the same level as I adore "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" or "Joy in the Morning" (and I was right, I didn't) but I definitely didn't hate it, either.
Betty Smith has the special gift of making you care immensely for her characters and what will happen to them.
I can't say I was super satisfied at the way this part of the story turned out, but Betty Smith doesn't water down reality.
Don't expect "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn", but do expect a good read with quality writing.
While Maggie Now is still a coming of age novel about a girl in Brooklyn I believe most modern women don't relate with Maggie's character.
I love that Betty Smith is able to write such different and complex characters in her books, and I believe Maggie possessed a different kind of strength when taking into account her strong Catholic faith.
I also love the way the chapters differed from ATGB which seemed to unfold slowly in progression with Francie's life.
My main criticism for the novel is that Maggie's character as a young girl compared to her as an older woman don't really add up.
Febuary 1st 2010As I am nearing the end of this book, I try to think of how I was affected by it.
But even though I am nearing the ens, Istill can not mske my opinion.Febuary 3 2010Yesterday, right before my sleepy self took over my awakened one, I finished reading this book and also won the battle of the many days I had spent reading it.
I still cannot decide whether I liked this book or not, I find so much faults in but I can not get over the fact that this was Betty Smith..the author of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, which was an amazing book.
I loved the community and family feel that Smith created.
Especially a nice American complement to the Mr Selfridge perspective over in England.
I loved the thoughts of the characters in italics, especially the dad, Pat(sy), cause he NEVER thinks the way you would think a person would think.
And the outside perspective of the priests (how the community doesn't see themselves as poor, so why should we make them feel that way) was touching and beautiful.Need to go back and read A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.(This edition was so sloppily edited that it was distracting though.)
This book has a certain charm to it, but it left me wanting more for Maggie.
I wished she had stood up to her husband and father and told them what she wanted instead of just acquiescing to their every wish.
Besides that, Maggie is a very likable character, and I liked Denny as well.
Denny seemed to be the only one who really had Maggie's heart in mind throughout the whole book.
On a side note: the editing in this particular edition was awful.
If this is something that bothers you, you might want to choose another edition and hope that one is better edited.
I have to say that I might have set myself up for not liking this book from the start.
I chose to read it right after reading A Tree Grows In Brooklyn and, as superstitious as it might sound, there's not really anywhere to go but down when you like a book as much as I liked A Tree.
The writing itself is okay but it didn't seem to connect me with the experience of the book or the lives of the characters in any noticeable way.
It also felt like Smith was trying her hardest to make sure all the characters were as contrary as possible.
Betty Smith is best known as the author of coming-of-age-tale ‘A Tree Grows in Brooklyn’ – which happens to also be one of my most favorite books.
For me, it is most important for a book not to have an exciting plot, or an exhilarating climax, but instead to have memorable and well-developed characters – and Betty Smith excels in creating characters.
Reading a Betty Smith tale is like sitting down to a girls night discussion and chatting with your closest friends.
If you have never read a novel by Betty Smith, you are missing out – and ‘A Tree Grows in Brooklyn’ would be a great place to start.
The title implies it is Maggie's story, but the writing makes it more of Pat's story.
The introductory chapters about Pat are excusable as background, but the book ends with the death of Maggie's husband and Pat's reaction as he carries out Claude's final wishes.
Perhaps that sums it up, though: Maggie's life is not really about her, it's about the men in her life who depend upon her and use her.
Maggie is not a likeable character, but's what's worse is that she isn't even enough of a character to dislike.
Pat and Denny are interesting even when they aren't very likeable.
Maggie is just a doormat.
One of my book sales finds.
I did enjoy the story, Smith had me seeing and feeling that time in old Ireland and New York.
As for the adult Maggie and her father Pat…my current day mind did want to shake both of them!
I can’t believe a woman could be so …I don’t know…DUMB!
And she puts up with that nasty father?
I wish Smith would have written in another fight where he would have gotten roughed up.
But at least she had the father do the right thing in the end.
I’ll be searching out more of Betty Smith’s books.
