https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1052571.Honey_in_the_Horn
That happened so often that if I didn't know better I would have thought that Oregon was smaller than Rhode Island.Here is an example of one of the many sketches of bigger than life characters and the type of humor found in the book.
But I do know that my low rating is partially due to my high expectations of wanting to read the book for such a long time and the fact that it had received the Pulitzer.I'm fairly certain that Mark Twain was one of Davis' influences, but he falls short of the master in terms of both humor and satire.
Instead of reading this one, I would recommend Twain's Roughing It, similar, but much better.
I used to say that I'd read a 1,000 page book written on the history of a couch, if the writing was done interestingly enough, because I am not typically very concerned with plots, suspense or other manipulative techniques that are typically used to make me forget / not notice that the writing is sub par.It's been a long time since that speech and a long time since I've read something on a topic that bored me to tears, yet I remained completely absorbed.
None of these topics are ones that I'm ever particularly interested in, but H.L. Davis held my attention well.I am typically anti-flowery descriptions in books.
Keeping with my goal to read each Pulitzer Prize winning novel written prior to 1940 (which isn't so monumental a task considering the first was awarded in 1917), I finished reading "Honey in the Horn" and I'm glad I did.
But to approach a 70-plus year old novel without placing yourself in the author’s reference of time is unfair to yourself and the writer.From the point of view of Davis and his contemporaries, HITH is a gorgeously written novel, dripping with profound beauty and sometimes ugliness, and loaded with fascinating characters.
What was missing in Davis's 1936 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel Honey in the Horn was the romantic stereotyping and moralizing that could be found in much of the regional literature of the time. Instead, this is essentially a coming-of-age novel with complex, finely wrought, often humorous characters who are just trying to make a life — though the going isn't easy. Davis's rendering of the rugged Oregon landscape is simply gorgeous. Reminiscent of Stegner's Big Rock Candy Mountain, but with much more humor, Honey in the Horn is a great gift.Recommended by Liz, Powells.com
Finished yet another of our Pulitzer reads! This was a fascinating book - the adjectives colorful, complex, brilliant, rich, humorous - pop to mind as i try to find a way to describe it, but I find description of the book elusive. We stopped several times during our reading to comment on the vocabulary and phrases/expressions that that author used - some just plain tickled our fancy, others were many layered, more complex. This is one of those books that could/should be re-read for even deeper enjoyment.
I encountered Davis for the first time(as far as I remember) in the short story book I just finished.
The more I read the more I think that Cormac McCarthy is a Davis fan.
So far this story is reminding me of "All the Pretty Horses".
I'm now at the mid-point of this slow-reading book.
The "plot" has taken a back seat for now in favor of Davis' desire to illustrate for us the cultural and natural world of post-pioneer Oregon.
"Civilization" hasn't taken hold yet but by the time the book was written(1930's) I imagine things had calmed down a lot.
Obviously Grapes of Wrath looks at a much larger migration in a different time and place and a much worse human-induced climatic catastrophe.
But though this book is dated (esp when discussing the various Indian tribes—though Davis does go into detail about who is who, there are not just "Indians"), Davis does have some opinions about speculators (from town site sellers to work crew leaders), gossipy families, unsatisfiable settlers, etc etc.While the focus of this book is Clay Calvert, an orphan who grew up on a farm that took in a fair number of orphans, the story is really about Oregon.
I read this in advance of a recent trip to Oregon, as Davis was born to a settler family there and wrote a great deal about his home state.
The book is also refreshing because, having written it in the 1930s rather than later, Davis does not romanticize either the people or way of life of long ago.
We may choose to do that, and I found myself slipping into it a few times, mostly for how much responsibility we've taken from young people that we instead infantilize into adulthood, but that's our fault and not Davis's.
I've read nothing else like it.
Davis spins a tale that only a man who had lived through that period of time in Oregon, had picked hops, stacked hay, ridden the outlaw trail and listened to a whole lot of stories in bars could have written.
Another scene in the middle of the book when Clay is picking hops, has a blow-up with his girlfriend, and goes off to camp with an older single woman who plays guitar and is running from the law, captures the hand to mouth existence of many people at that time.
“There was a run-down old tollbridge station in the Shoestring Valley of Southern Oregon where Uncle Preston Shiveley had lived for fifty years, outlasting a wife, two sons, several plagues of grasshoppers, wheat-rust and caterpillars, and a couple or three invasions of land-hunting settlers and real-estate speculators, and everybody else except the scattering of old pioneers who cockleburred themselves onto the country the same time he did.”THe setting is the early 1900s of Oregon.
Afraid to be caught for this transgression, Clay takes off with an Indian boy for a bit, until he meets a horse trader and his beautiful daughter, Luce.
This book offers an awesome look at Oregon at the end of the 1800's.
There were terms in the book I'll never understand ("he dug the hole very jesusly") and explanations of occurrences I'd heard of, but with reasons I'd never heard (Davis claims the main reason immigrant workers (like the Chinese) were preferred for building the railroad because they often hired themselves out in teams with an american group-leader, and the leader knew the bosses didn't know who each worker was by name, so they would put extra names on the list and get paid for them.
Actual caucasian, english speaking employees were much easier to check out and so the ruse didn't work as well with them).Anyway, this book is a great store of info and insight; it definitely earned its Pulitzer.
I really enjoyed this 1935 Pulitzer Winner about life in Oregon in the late 19th century.
The author's colloquial style and tongue-in-cheek, though folksy, authentic narration style was masterful.
The story of a young man and woman making their way in the Wild West was full of the usual guns, horses, wagons, Indians, fever and fire-cooked meals, but with more focus on the influence of women than usual and very little consideration for children.
I particularly liked the opening passage: "He met her in the lane and laid her on a board, And he played her a tune called Sugar in the Gourd, Sugar in the Gourd, Honey in the Horn; Balance to your partners, honey in the horn."
A truly enjoyable and sometimes comic coming of age story set in Oregon, Davis home state.
Clay Calvert, an orphan, is forced to flee his job as a ranch hand on a sheep farm and he falls in with some homesteaders seeking the perfect location.
The story becomes their story, with all its quirky characters and its astonishing prose that details the native plants and describes the scenery so well.
Davis' writing reminds me of Mark Twain's, for it has a sly humor much like his and is peopled with wily characters.
It is the only Oregon book that has won a Pulitzer prize and richly deserved it.
This book won the 1937 Pulitzer Prize - Fiction. A serious read about Oregon life in the homestead era (early 20th century). Indelible character portraits coupled with a great love for Oergon's natural beauty, plus a quiet sympathy for the Native American people. Very much like reading Mark Twain. Highly recommended if you're into Oregon history.
A book that is first western, Oregon Trail epic, and then love story sounds like a winner. Honey in the Horn would be great if it didn't fall prey to the dreaded slow downs. The book was slow in several places, and it hurt the overall story. The characters were great though and the prose was surprisingly humorous.
This book was a Pulitzer Prize winner in the 1930's. I wonder if it would have been today. Davis' voice is intoxicating. His descriptions of people and places reminded me of Annie Proulx. The story follows a 16 year old boy on a journey into manhood in the 1900's in Oregon.
Raw account of rough life of Oregon homesteaders. Dense style loaded with wonderful and unsettling details.
It just basically followed the roaming travels of a rather loner young cowboy and his dealings and path-crossings with other similar characters of the time and region.
The only other Pultizer winning western novel I've yet read was McMurtry's "Lonesome Dove" and that was an infinitely better book in terms of rich character development.
I mean, really, I challenge anyone who has read the book to tell me what they really and truly know about Clay and Luz. What shaped their thinking and orientation?
A few funny lines and a portrait of homesteaders culture that I've never read about before.
It is a vehicle for the author to develop a wide variety of characters from that place and era, and his descriptions and use of dialect lets these characters emerge clearly.
At times, the book's plot seems to get lost in all the development of minor characters and in description of the setting that raise it to the status of a major character itself.
One way they differ is that Clay lacks Huck's good heart, and that lets him follow the moral precepts of his times without must hesitation.When the plot finally emerges, the reader realizes that the book has been driven by this all along, and the end moves very quickly.
You have the sense of sitting around a campfire one autumn night during your trek out west and hearing about all that happened to young Clay Calvert.
It covers a complex string of events, and follows Clay across miles and miles of Oregon back country from the high desert plains to the ocean, as he finds work in at least a half dozen different occupations from the early 20th century, and meets probably one hundred interesting characters in the process.
The book is rich with detail and leaves the reader with a sense of what life was like "way back then." Loved it!
(From the Introduction) - Nowhere does the story explicitly identify a particular narrator, although many of Davis's other stories do so.
However, the tone suggests Davis had in mind the presence of someone other than an "authorial voice" or implied author as narrator.
And, of course, Davis's response carries implications for identifying the narrative line itself, for if the narrator is more important than Clay (the main character), then the narration of the story is inseparable from the narrative, and the plot -- concerning Clay, Luce (his love interest), and the settler's quest -- count less than the "line" he gives us.And, from the NOTE - I had originally hoped to include in the book a representation of every calling that existed in the state of Oregon during the homesteading period -- 1906-1908.
Pulitzer 1936 - Harold Davis's book is an account of Clay Calvert a 16 year old kid and ranch hand.
This is another one of those - didn't like it/didn't hate it books.
And as with other similar books in the "eh" range I just never really got into a rhythm with the author.
He characters are fine but I felt that in places he would change scenes and topics with little and no segue.
Clay and Luce are interesting characters that are fleshed out fine but something was lacking in the plot.
It just wasn't enough to keep me interested.
Clark Burdon, Wade Shiveley, the horse trader, the miserly lumber mill owner, Old Savage, and yes, the shop keeper in the middle of nowhere but just within listening distance to the ocean that he's never ventured to look at.
I half expected this book, from reviews, to not have much of a plot, but it has one and it allowed for us to get a good look at the Oregon coast and countryside in the early 20th Century.
This book has humor in it, which drove up the stars.
This would have been a 2.5 or 3 star book without it.
Would I recommend "Honey" to a friend?
Only if that friend was really into frontier, pioneering, literature.
I'll just quote the powells.com review:...What was missing in Davis's 1936 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel Honey in the Horn was the romantic stereotyping and moralizing that could be found in much of the regional literature of the time.
Instead, this is essentially a coming-of-age novel with complex, finely wrought, often humorous characters who are just trying to make a life — though the going isn't easy.
Reminiscent of Stegner's Big Rock Candy Mountain, but with much more humor, Honey in the Horn is a great gift.....And add that though it is a slow read (life was slower then) there are some real gems here.
I was intrigued by the story line.
It takes place in the final years of the old west in the Oregon territory.
I think it is an early twentieth century coming-of-age story, but there are also elements of protest as to the way native Americans are treated and also elements of man versus nature as the homesteaders attempt to scratch out a living and finally there are hints at class injustices.
It is all written with magnificent prose, but the end left me a little flat.
By the end it seems as though none of the goals of the book are met.
I enjoyed the lively writing, am not sorry I read it, but wouldn't recommend that anyone go out of there way to read it. It felt kind of dated and I got a little tired of it at times. All of the characters were poked fun of, but some of the characterization of Native Americans was cringeable. I was going to quote a paragraph or two just as an example of his entertaining style, but I can't remember where I put the book. Going through the Pulitzers, it's kind of nice to read one set in the Northwest.
What a surprise to enjoy this book!
Sometimes when it's really thick and written ages ago, I go in hesitantly.
This book was pretty dang funny, astute in it's understanding of people with a good story line to pull me through.
I recommend it.
It's about settlers in SE Oregon who are on the road a lot, running into all sorts of odd ball types.
The story follows a young man, Clay on his adventures.
He gets into a bind and has to stay on the run.
There's a love story, of course.
It did a great job of placing the reader in that time and place.
It's a strong 3 stars. Love books that invoke vivid imagery of the outdoors and this one fills the bill, repeatedly, as the setting is ever changing. In the forward the author mentions an unfulfilled goal to include every profession in homestead era Oregon within the book. He came close. It was fun and well written but the story felt rushed and/or disjointed at times, because of the goal to throughly document the time.
This took me a long time to read, but I'm blaming that more on the physical condition of the book itself: I had to get an interlibrary loan for this one and it came in a BOX marked "Fragile", which really made me question why I don't use my Kindle more...but anyway, it was ok. There were a lot of words and side stories that had nothing to do with anything. The characters were all kind of terrible people, and they didn't do much other than wander around. Not my favorite.
