https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10802.Beyond_the_Hundredth_Meridian
No one can claim sufficient understanding of the expansion of the West in the late 19th & early 20th centuries without having read this.
John Wesley Powell not only led the historic Explorations of the Grand, Green and Colorado Rivers and their Canyons, explored the blank areas of the western US, but founded the US Geological Survey & Bureau of Ethnicity.
He also was a cofounder and inaugural attendee of very first meeting to consider the creation of a Society for the increase & diffusion of geogrphic knowledge -- The National Geographic Society.Beautiful, Pulizer-winning biography of JW Powell and a magnifiscent literary tour de force.
Read this one.
That said it is not difficult to read, just slow if you want to think about what is packed into this book.John Wesley Powell gained fame as the first man to run the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon.
His career was centered on trying to give people a better understanding of the arid regions beyond the hundredth meridian.Central to Powell's plan was the topographical mapping of the entire U.S. This was still only 60% done in 1952!
A school of thought promoted the idea rain followed the plow so all homesteaders had to do was stake a claim and put in a crop.During the wet years in the 1870s this worked.
(If I'm not mistaken, he ended up with some 700 or so vocabularies.) Along with mapping, ethnology was one of his favorite pursuits.The next chapter in Powell's life entailed trying to persuade the U.S. government and the western states that west of the 100th meridian (a line through North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas) the lands were arid, and that the homesteading law should be changed.
Powell battled with Congress repeatedly, both in trying to obtain funds for his scientific researches, and trying to persuade Western congressmen that their states were indeed arid.
Other than Part I, which covers Powell's exploration of the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon, the majority of this book centers on Powell's career leading the US Geological Survey.
In that role, Powell essentially held the ultimate power in determining how the West would be opened up to settlement.
Stegner's dry wit and powerful writing are on full display, and his passion for the West bleeds through the passages.
He is not afraid to attack those disillusioned optimists who supported blind homesteading (Sam Adams, Gilpin and Stewart are particularly lambasted) and Stegner clearly believes that Powell was on the right track.
The first part of the book concentrates on Powell's expeditions and the latter part on his work in DC managing numerous surveys and agencies.
If they had listened to Powell the American West would be very different.
It's one of those books you are glad to have read but you're not going to revisit.
However, it's essential in any library on the American West.
Powell set the stage for Teddy Roosevelt and Gordon Pinchot but he was just one man against a sea of selfish and impatient interests.
He was an interesting man who is almost saint like in this retelling.
Essential reading for people who, like me, who feel at home in the American West. Masterfully written--it's Stegner, after all--it includes important reminders about water in the West, especially as it becomes more scarce. It also argues convincingly that this "second opening" of the West required collective action--I could say "socialism" if I wanted to be provocative--on a scale that had never been seen before in the U.S. Those are the big federal water projects, without which we could not have settled the West in anything like the way we actually did.Lovely, lovely book.
The high desert, red rock canyon country of south-east Utah was the last part of the contiguous United States to be mapped, and with good reason.
This book is that history and follows Powell's political career for several decades as he tries to convince Congress and the public so hot for the Homestead Act that agricultural farming just will not work in vast areas of the arid, desert West.
The rest of the book is more political and details the history of homesteading and immigration through the western United States, bits of the wars and treaties and decimation of the Native American tribes, and a lot of congressional arguments and acts and vetoes that led to the "opening" and settlement of the West.
If I didn't appreciate Wallace Stegner so much I wouldn't have bought the book, and I probably wouldn't have finished it either. Stengner is an awesome writer. When describing Powell's intellect, Stegner writes, "He learned from every book, acquanintance, experience; facts stuck in his mind , and not like stray flies on fly-paper but like orderly iron filings around magnetic poles." That kind of writing made the description of Powell's expedition down the Colorado River a quick read. That kind of writing made the account of Powell's career with the U.S. Geological survey tolerable. Barely!
Beyond the Hundredth Meridian deserves its iconic status; it is a work of both scholarship and poetry. It relates the life of a unique, talented, and farsighted man; it also portrays that man's attempt to save the Western United States from its worst myths and preconceptions about itself. One can come away saddened that then, as now, facts and science can be ignored by selfish, greedy, narrow interests. However, one can also be heartened by the way in which finally, reality tends to vindicate those who have eyes to see.
(Such stories were obviously NOT supported by Powell.) Wow. I grew up in the desert, so it strains credulity to think that someone could tell such a tale, and that others would believe it.The second half, about the geological survey, got a bit bogged down in technical details for a while.
But the latter part discussing Powell's plans for division of land and water rights in the west, was truly amazing.
The last section that discussed the political machinations over Powell's geological survey and land proposals was most compelling.
“An acquaintance with books and learning was not a thing that a frontier boy like John Wesley Powell could take for granted; he had to seize it as he could. Abe Lincoln said it for every such boy with brains and dreams in his head: “The things I want to know are in books; my best friend is a man who’ll git me a book I ain’t read.”
I remembered that I had this Wallace Stegner book Beyond the Hundredth Meridian on my to read list and plunged in to the Colorado River with John Wesley Powell and crew.
Powell is also like Muir one of the first to realize that natural resources like water and minerals are not inexhaustible.
Powell wanted to protect those individual farmers in the arid west by insuring their access to adequate water for their crops.
Although published in 1954, Stegner's book is still relevant today.
Powell looked to the federal government to police private industries monopolizing and over utilizing our natural resources.
This is a riveting book about John Wesley Powell's exploration of the Colorado River and his subsequent quest to focus lawmakers in Congress on the terrain and water available in the arid west.
I did not know that Powell was the founder of the US Geological Survey, urging his country to produce accurate maps of the west and arguing that its arid climate precluded the development under the Homestead Act that many senators and bureaucrats aspired for it.
Stegner is ironic, witty, and his passion for the West and its arid dry beauty is obvious on every page.
a lot of inside baseball. you have to be very interested in water law in the west to be fully engaged here. this is not the novelist stegner.
This is an extended review of this fine, and classic, book on the American West.On the Fourth of July, 1868, Colorado Territorial Governor and veteran westerner William Gilpin addressed a gathering in Denver.
Beyond the Hundredth Meridian, by Wallace Stegner, is an account of how John Wesley Powell came to see and understand the American West in a way that was fundamentally different from William Gilpin and his acolytes.
Powell recognized that the usual farming methods of American settlers would be less effective west of the 100th meridian because the land was arid, receiving fewer than twenty inches of rainfall per year.
This is a masterful work of biography, "the history not of a personality but of a career," as Stegner writes in his introductory note.
As such, not only does Stegner follow John Wesley Powell down the frightful canyons of the Colorado River and into the even more fearsome halls of the national capital, but the author dwells on Powell's companions and antagonists, his allies and his would-be emulators.
He explains the dry, hard-rock conditions that Powell found in the west, and makes the connections to Powell's scientific report of 1877, which argued for a pattern of settlement arranged by geology and watersheds and governed communally.Stegner is wittily cutting about Capt.
BEYOND THE HUNDRETH MERIDIAN: John Wesley Powell and the Second Opening of the West.
John Wesley Powell was an ethnologist and geologist who explored the Colorado River, the Grand Canyon, the Green River, and the habitat of Indian tribes of the American Southwest.
As opposed to other explorers of the time, he advocated only limited settlement of the Southwest based on the resources available to support such populations.
It turns out that while other explorers over-estimated how much of a human population the land could support, Powell was realistic in his evaluations.
For book club we were asked to read up through Powell's first expedition down the Green River into what is now The Grand Canyon.
I actually went a little bit further but with the exception of the first expedition, the book was a bit too dry for me.
The book certainly was exciting as the expedition was on the river.
One week before book club, place a large pile of sand in front of everyone’s homes with fans blowing, so you can get used to the sand.9.
Build a collection of live mosquitos and flies for months before the dinner, release them all right before the guests arrive.3.
This book in nominally a biography of Major John Wesley Powell, one of the more influential men in the exploring and settling of the western US in the mid-1800's.
As he moves up the ladder he eventually comes to a position where he not only creates an economically and enviromentally sound policy for settling the western us, but almost has the power to enact it.
however, most of his policies fall by the wayside leading to an enormous amount of waste and ruin, only to be enacted in the last half century in an effort to make the area more habitable and agriculturally sound.
It makes my head hurt just trying to comprehend how he aspired to map the entire U.S. topographically and how he wanted to to establish irrigation agriculture in the West.
Powell was ahead of his time in foreseeing the problems that would come if reservoirs and dams and rivers and streams weren't all organized into irrigation patterns ahead of time and his job grew more and more difficult as the lands became more settled, when some government people would tell ridiculous lies about conditions in the west to encourage settlement too.
An adventure for all time---to be the first to be challenged by this part of the west.
However--it gets bogged down in the politics of the time and I skipped a lot of that part of the book.
But loved the adventure of these 9 men on a river for 2 months in the late 1800's, with challenging rapids, and their unwieldy boats and equipment!!
If you read this book you might also get a copy of "It Must be....A Grand Canyon Trip" published as a journal of 10 men, 3 rafts, and lots of 21st century equipment doing this trip in 2010.
Very interesting account of John Wesley Powell's discoveries through the great Mountain West. Justin and I became interested in learning more about him when we visited the Grand Canyon last month, and this book is quenching my thirst. The day to day account of Powell and his team rafting through the Grand Canyon is amazing. Cool to hear mention of Powell interacting with Brigham Young and Jacob Hamblin (as in THEE Jacob Lake). It's a bit factual in the beginning, but starts flowing better.
Arguably the definitive biography of John Wesley Powell by one of America's greatest writers. Donald Worster's book on Powell has nothing on this.
With a velocity like his, he simply foamed over it.""he was also a learner, and one of the growing few ready to grant the right of the Indian to his own habits and attitudes....he never went armed, and he never had trouble""in the fast water above had left them feeling, as Sumner said, "like sparking a black-eyed girl--just dangerous enough to be exciting.""The deeper they went, the fiercer and wilder the river became, the more remote and lost they felt, like bugs swept helplessly along the bottom of a flooded ditch."I love that Stegner placed the work of early artists in this text, though I don't agree with his evaluations.
This goes against the common myth of homesteaders developing the West on their own through their rugged individualism and grit.I read this book while traveling through canyon country in Utah and Arizona and thoroughly enjoyed learning more about the history of the region.
The first third of the book covering Powell's initial journeys down the Colorado River alone are worth the read if interested in some natural history of the region.
If not interested in Western development and the exploration of the Colorado, this book is a bit dense in places and can be a bit slow as it does reflect a bit different pace as it was written in the 1950's.
A biography of Powell, but also a history of the political shenanigans surrounding the control of the Nation's resources that still continue.
The Colorado River exploration is a rousing adventure yarn, but the bulk of the book, and of Powell's life, was as an advocate for the rational understanding of the geology, hydrology, and climate of the West, and how to make that rational understanding of what is possible the basis for controlling development for the future good of the nation, not just for the immediate economic good of politically well-connected corporations and trusts.
It was a giant bubble of land inside the United States that white men had never seen, and not only did the river almost kill them, a handful of men in his party who abandoned them ended up getting massacred by a party of Native Americans, so this really was the wild west.After Powell's exploits on the Colorado, he spent a few years as an ethnologist, befriending various western Native American tribes and learning and chronicling their languages, while shuttling back and forth to Washington to beg the government for money to keep studying and reporting.
A Colossal Waste of Time: "Boring" Would Be A ComplimentMr. Stegnor should have stuck to his wonderful fiction.
Despite all the desperate situations the Colorado River crew lead by Powell faced, Stegnor's prose is flat and has a "ho hum, ODTAA (one darn thing after another), here-we-go-again-our-lives-are threatened" quality about it.
Perhaps it is because the mission to explore the Colorado River by boat was one chosen by the Powell party , rather than one assigned to it by State or Army or President, somehow decreased the nobility and selflessness of the action.
While Powell died in 1902, his life and work have great resonance today.
He championed science and rational land management policy, but was met with forces of idealism, wishful thinking and greed.
It is astounding how many of the issues and arguments that Powell encountered in the late 19th century were still around when Wallace Stegner was writing this book in the 1950s, and how much they are still around today.
This a must read for anyone who wants to understand the history of the western US or US land management policy and science.
I read the book while listening to an audio edition.I was born and raised in the SF Bay area, (San Mateo,Ca. 1947).
This book has so much history and educational information that it could be used as an expanded text for an undergrad degree about the West hundreds if not thousands of years ago to understanding current issues that do not exist east of St. Louis.
His work after our Civil War is sustained by many of our government and private institutions designed to assist our civilization.West is geographically and environmentally very different from the eastern half of our great nation.
