https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23751.Homer_s_Daughter
Robert Graves, best known for I, Claudius, uses Samuel Butler’s theory that The Odyssey was actually written by a Sicilian woman as the inspiration for the novel Homer’s Daughter.
Nausicaa, daughter of an Elyman king, faces a host of unwelcome suitors while the king is away and has to devise a means of getting rid of them.
After a rocky start explaining the origins of all the regional tribes and Nausicaa’s ancestry in excessive detail, Graves finds his rhythm in this clever and witty story.
It’s fun seeing what he comes up with to explain various elements of the Odyssey as envisioned by Nausicaa.
This is an excellent novel that elaborates on the hypothesis that the reason The Iliad and The Odyssey diverge in style and present inconsistencies is due to the latter not being the work of Homer but of a Sicilian princess, Nausicaa, who is the true author of the tale by virtue of composing it and sending her father's court bard to popularise it all throughout the Hellenic world.The premise of the two major works of Western epic poetry having two different authors, one of them an anonymous woman, is intriguing, and Graves has made it into a very plausible story that's also a pleasure to read, if you like quiet-paced and full-of-intrigue storytelling.
Um livro muito original.
Mas acho que o casamento deles foi muito apressado.
Considero que só aconteceu para ela escapar-se dos seus muitos pretendentes.
Agrada-me a figura de Éton, apenas não fiquei encantado com a sua adoração pela princesa grega.
A mãe e o pai da princesa foram duas das personagens que mais me agradaram devido a sua sabedoria, e por apoia-la a casar-se por amor.
Em linhas gerais, " A filha de Homero" celebra as culturas clássicas e é um bom livro para quem quer entender melhor a "Odisseia" e a "Ilíada" por falar também na Guerra de Tróia.
Muy buena recreación histórica de la Odisea. Una historia alternativa a la canónica que transmite Homero, dando una explicación distinta, que justificaría las discrepancias de estilo entre la Ilíada y la Odisea.Lectura obligada para los interesados en los mitos homéricos.
"Only let Eurymachus ask for another bath!" she cried. "I'll take net and axe and butcher him, as Clytaemnestra butchered Agamemnon. My heart growls in my breast like a bitch with puppies when a stranger approaches."
I had a hard time getting into this book. The first half is tiresome and I almost gave up on it but then in the second half the plot picks up and the writing improves. In the end I would say that I do recommend this book, though with a warning about its slow start.
Ainda que não seja fã de Graves, este livro transportou-me ao "Olimpo"; às odisseias de Homero, à terminologia (apaixonante) dos deuses Gregos e da sua ligação tão próxima ao humano.
In Homer's Daughter, Robert Graves takes up Samuel Butler's argument that it wasn't blind old Homer who wrote The Odyssey, but a young woman from Sicily.
Her name was Nausicaa, says Graves, and she wrote the epic poem in the tradition of the singing poets called Homer's Sons, based on her own life experiences.
In return for saving the life of Phemius the singer during the final battle, Nausicaa makes him promise to sing and circulate her epic poem.The Iliad, which I admire, is devised by a man for men; this epic, the Odyssey, will be devised by a woman for women.
Epic.
Incluso se da el lujo de incluir acontecimientos inverosímiles, justificados en el acompañamiento de los dioses, que favorecen a uno u otro personaje a medida que avanza el relato.Graves narra con su habitual erudición y así enriquece cada suceso, con detalles de las costumbres sicilianas, de los protocolos reales y religiosos y de toda clase de anécdotas que intercala con maestría.Y para terminar, en la narración justifica la hipótesis según la cual una princesa siciliana es coautora de La odisea, en un capítulo de cierre perfecto.
Robert Graves excels at historical fiction, and this book does not disappoint. I was put off at first by the introduction, in which the author explains his reasons for writing this by saying that "The Iliad is a poem about and for men, the Odyssey (despite its male hero) is a poem about and for women." I don't at all share that view, but thankfully the story that follows is a very good one, especially because I've recently read an Odyssey and it was fresh in my mind. Reader, I loved this.
Excelente. lo leí inmediatamente después de leer La Odisea, y lo disfruté mucho
Unsettling.
La leí hace mucho, antes de conocer y leer "La diosa blanca".Me pareció una gran novela, a esa gran altura que la prosa de Robert Graves acostumbra.
Es una historia interesante y muy bien narrada.
Graves wrote this book in 1955 after reading, and becoming convinced by, Samuel Butler's persuasive viewpoint that a woman was the author of the Odyssey, a woman who lived in 750 B.C. Sicily.
According to Butler, Sicily was the actual setting for the Odyssey, which was written nearly 150 years after Homer wrote the Iliad, and it is considered a tale of women for women (as opposed to the Iliad, a "tale of men for men").
Nausicaa's daily life is infused with stories and deeply felt religious beliefs, so it is not hard to see how she can compose a tale such as the Odyssey with all of its rich adventure.
Ispirato dall'ipotesi di uno studioso che proponeva un'Odissea di composizione più tardiva dell'Iliade, in una colonia greca e, udite udite, per mano di una donna!
lo studioso Robert Graves si è lanciato in un suo personale divertissement: che tipo di donna avrebbe potuto scrivere l'Odissea?
Ma non penso intendesse fare di più: si è divertito a prendere gli elementi dell'Odissea e rimescolarli a suo piacimento; i personaggi finiscono per essere i pezzi di un collage.
Ma un collage ben composto, da una mente ingegnosa che sembra condividere con i greci uno sviluppato gusto del raccontare.Letto con piacere.
It is curiously dry book, intentionally written as ancient epic (lots of empty talk and declamations, long serious speeches and talks about Gods) that stop the story in tracks and often almost sideline the potentially exciting story with so much academic theorizing.
If Graves wanted to present this as some ancient Greek play the way they were usually presented thousands of years ago in theatre, he definitely made his point but I found myself skipping a lot of empty talk and was relieved when I finally finished the darn book.


Once when asking Dad for a book suggestion, he told me that he had spent a good deal of the War on shipboard reading and that he had particularly liked Robert Graves' historical novels.
Having already read the epics in school, I chose Homer's Daughter.Graves was eccentric.
A translator of a popular edition of the Iliad himself, he was definitely on top of the classics and very well read in ancient history.
Whether or not you are interested in the speculative basis of the book, Homer's Daughter is a fun read.
I rated it five stars because this is one of these few novels I have read more than once and probably will read again in the future.Graves is unique as story-teller.
In this novel he gives his voice to Nausicaa, a young, smart princess of Sicily who dreams about writing an epic poem while facing a conspiracy againts her royal family.
Graves wrote this delicious homeric novel inspired in Butler's theory about the Odissey.
According Butler, the author of this epic was a woman, and he gives some details to support his theory.
Graves found it original and inspiring and he wrote Homer's Daugther.
Es interesante leer los hechos ~reales~ que más tarde se convertirían en pasajes de ese poema.
Me gustó mucho la manera en que Robert Graves acomodó todo, le dio sentido para explicar el origen de la Odisea, y de paso contó diversos mitos aunque me gustaría ver sus fuentes; eso sí, el inicio se me hizo súper pesado porque da muchísima información en pocas páginas y no me agradó cómo se desarrolló el ¿romance?
pero en general, me gustó bastante cómo se conformó la historia.PS.
Creo que es más divertido/interesante este libro si ya se leyó primero la Odisea.
I was fascinated by the miniseries I, Claudius based upon Robert Graves' book, and when I realized this book was in my husband's collection, I snatched it, expecting to be likewise fascinated.
I was intrigued by the premise, based on Samuel Butler's theory: what if Homer's Odyssey was in fact written by a young woman?
I was surprised by how dull and lifeless the execution was.
The writing style was so colorless I was half-tempted to see if this was the same Robert Graves or if someone had swiped the man's identity.
The story isn't helped along by the protagonist, who is an irritatingly snobbish know-it-all.
Oh this was lovely. Graves's form of meta-classics fanfic feels a bit more rigorous than, say, Lavinia by Ursula K. Le Guin, and I feel even more of a compulsion to go through Homer than I did with Virgil after finishing Lavinia.Nausicaa is a wonderful narrator, and the anthropological details about life in the Greek empire were excellent.
I am woefully unacquainted with the Odyssey and the Iliad, so many of the references and analogies were above my head, but I suspect they would be considered brilliant for those familiar with the ancient texts. The story included so many characters with long, often similar Greek names I often had trouble following who was who, but it didn't matter. Homer's Daughter was an exciting and very enjoyable adventure.
The style is in keeping with the setting. The flow is very different from a modern novel and more like reading a translation of an ancient epic (except not in verse), which I assume was the goal. Overall I enjoyed it. I would have liked to have had the argument for a female author presented though - perhaps in short section at the end. Now I must go find his sources. Which I probably would have done anyway. I suspect Butler may be hard to locate these days though.
This book/story/author isn't clever as it thinks it is. Or the intended audience is incredibly niche, possibly just the author in fact. The performance of the reader for my Bolinda/Borrowby audio book version was quite poor. Clear enunciation but little or no character differentiation. Just about tolerable overall.
Graves (I Claudius) makes a cogent case for the Odyssey having been written, not by Homer, but by a Sicilian woman living in Erice, 150 years after the Illiad was written. I don't know why there isn't more academic debate on this. There is at least one other scholar who agrees with this. See Graves's foreword.
I was hoping for so much more from this book! A distinguished writer, an amazing plot, placed in a well-pictured historical reality... and yet the book is barely enjoyable. The writing is dry, the dialogues artificial. Who talks about types of cheese they've been served when referring a tremendously urgent matter of life and death in a hurry?
