https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/938949.The_Haunted_Woman
Victorian-era romance—stiff-mannerisms and lacquered morality and formalized discourse—curiously carried through to Home County life in post-Great War England; yet, this being a book by Lindsay, endowed with an intriguing blend of supernatural-cum-psychological excavation, spiritual mining, and fugal gnosticism, all overlain with a spectral creepiness and otherworldly texture. It's hardly going to keep me lying awake at night lost in thought or nervously eying the shadows—but it proved enjoyable throughout, at times exquisitely so, while measuredly heightening the suspense and deepening the mystery with every page moved closer to the denouement.
The handling of the marvelous, and especially the nature of this forgetting could not have been handled any better by Lindsay, and is the reason for plodding through accounts of picnics and social dynamics; which in this case is actually minimal compared to his later book (which I am now rereading), The Violet Apple.Given that one variety or another of spiritual torture - where characters slip into higher realms from difficult mundanity, only to discover that further even more difficult tortures await them there - is at the root of David Lindsay's metaphysical vision, it is entirely appropriate that reading his books can be torturous.
Wow, what a great novel; totally different in all ways from Voyage to Arcturus, which I have to admit I under appreciate.
A romance hidden in a haunted house, hidden in a science fiction-parallel world, philosophical novel.
This Tartarus edition has an afterword, that is properly an afterword and not an introduction, that explicates the novel so succinctly that it is a wonder in itself.Lindsay's breadth is truly remarkable.
I will have to go back and reread Arcturus.
I think I was put off by it's rather dated plotting and style and did not appreciate its philosophical aspects as well as I should have.
He's not really out to produce an entertaining novel, in other words, but to give the reader a window (at times, 'a magic casement, opening on the foam Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn') into his tortured spiritual philosophy.Unlike his Voyage to Arcturus, where Lindsay serves up allegory on steroids, the vision in A Haunted Woman is relatively unforced and straightforward.
Anyone who knows Lindsay will not be surprised to find those same people, 'upstairs', falling prey to unfulfillable longings, passion, and spiritual torment.
The Haunted Woman, like Lindsay's previous Voyage to Arcturus, is a haunting novel which, like its predecessor, has to read more than once.I have included a plot summary in the book's description field.
It sounds rather pedestrian and boring and, indeed, the characters in the book are both pedestrian and boring--as, sadly, is Lindsay's writing style when describing the quotidian world.But, but there is nothing ordinary or boring about what Lindsay is trying to write about here and elsewhere, even though the matter is allusive, his approach only capable of being suggestive.Several commentators have called Lindsay a gnostic.
Lindsay writes to the heart, not the head.
There's something else strange, though: Those who go up into the hermetic rooms cannot remember anything that happened there once they descend.This really is Isbel's tale, and though she has her faults and hang-ups, which are in many ways typical of her time and class, I would think, Lindsay makes her into one of his "special" creations, possessing of a certain longing and passion for things that exist beyond the known and expected.
Not quite as 'out there' as the other Lindsay novel I have read, Voyage To Arcturus, then again I don't think anything is :). Voyage to Arcturus blazed a trail that no one followed. The Haunted Woman is much more restrained and straightforward, but still quite good in its own way. The scenes outside the House can drag a little bit, especially at the beginning, but the scenes inside the House and especially up the staircase are wonderfully eerie and uncanny. Although it is not without its faults, I did enjoy it.
A wonderful, amazing, book. That in many ways reminded me in tone of House of Leaves. I wonder if this book was read by Mark Z. Danielewski. Still it was an enjoyable romp, that was beautifully written and was haunting and melancholy at the same time. This is a book worth checking out.
Everything was great if you like chit chat about men and women being different. The ending was great, I just didn't like the very ending, it left too many unanswered questions
Henry Judge- WidowerIsbel Lamont- Fiancee of Marshall StokesIsbel's aunt- in search of a new home, Stokes wants to get her settled so he can marry IsbelMrs. Moor- resident at hotel, retiree, nosy, medium interested in the manor for it's history/supernatural rumors, possibly interested in Mr. Judge.
Later they meet in a room up an appearing staircase and looking out the window, they see and hear an ancient man, possibly the original owner of the tower- Ulf- playing a type of stringed instrument like a bass fiddle.
Marshall, Isbel’s fiancé, is a somewhat staid stockbroker recently returned from America on business during which journey he meets a recently widowed middle-aged English industrialist, Henry Judge, with a house that might ‘fit the bill’ for Isbel and her aunt.
In advance of the visit Marshall relates a story about the house told to him by Judge regarding a strange room on one of the upper floors of the house that can only accessed by a phantom staircase that appears abruptly now and again and vanishes just as quickly.
This novel, like Lindsay's first, The Voyage to Arcturis, is essentially allegorical, though set in modern-day England (circa 1920s), with more fleshed-out, interesting characters, who are forced to explore the question: how is one to take the sense that life is filled with significance?
Is the sometimes overpowering beauty of nature, art and human relationships simply a subjective phenomenon produced automatically by our sensory interactions?
Or does it betoken a transcendent reality which we could, or will be someday, more a part of?
The realism makes it a bit dull at the beginning, but when the subject matter -- the dual nature of reality -- kicks in, it becomes fascinating.
Very disappointing. I was gobsmacked by the originality of A Voyage to Arcturus and had high hopes for this being a quirky take on the supernatural, but was surprised at how conventional it was. Flat, slow, boring, predictable. 1.5 Stars at most, but can't even get excited enough about not liking it to downgrade it to 1, so 2.
The book fully deserves four stars, despite a chapter called "the picnic", whose meaning in the economy of the plot I haven't really understood. Given the nature of the story it could well be a kind of ghost chapter."They told me at the hotel that something happened to you.""Oh yes I am dead", came the whispering voice. "I died last night."
Another old house, a staircase that is not there, a view that is long gone, and lingering ghosts play havoc with the characters and the readers mind. Even the manners of a time not so long gone intrigue us as the house and stairs beckon us to what? What a shame David Lindsay didn't' write more books....
Just re-read this and liked it even more than when I read it in college. Even if the characters are upper class English from the early 20th century, i could appreciate the way that culture, not unlike my own, often suppressed passion and longing beneath decorum and society.
This excellent supernatural story shows most clearly the inspiration of George Macdonald ; which some have referred to as informing Lindsay's work.The powerful otherworldliness of all his work is there from the first, the future pull of important transformations.First class Lindsay.
Another remarkable book by David Lindsay. This one feels very victorian, but with this other allegorical world attached which is forgotten by visitors as soon as they depart, which keeps everything in its proper place, until...
Only made it about 50 pages in, but have to give up because the writing and characters are so poor. Not sure why this book gets such good reviews!
The writing style seemed a so similar to that in Jane Eyre, I'd recommend this to Jane-Eyre fans :o
I read this after reading A Voyage to Arcturus. I wasn't expecting it to measure up, and it didn't. It is a fine little novella, nonetheless.
Some weird stuff with alien geometries and haunting disembodied music, but not nearly enough to make up for wooden Edwardians having long-winded conversations in excessively formal language.
