https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41128.The_Wild_Shore
So I'm kind of in that stage with Kim Stanley Robinson.I've read science fiction pretty regularly since I was pretty young, devouring my father's and uncles' collections indiscriminately.
And I think that that is sort of the miracle of the Mars trilogy, as well as the promise of the Three Californias: these are novels of Big Ideas, for sure, but the narrative is never sacrificed for the sake of lumbering speculative exposition.
Sure, the Mars books regularly feature capsule lectures about the possible effects of terraforming on Martian weather patterns, or the psychological effects of long interplanetary voyages, but they feel perfectly balanced by the furtherance of the rich tapestry of narrative and character development.
However, this is the only world teenaged Henry knows: a world revolving around harvests, fishing, the howl of the Santa Ana, and the danger of wild-eyed scavengers in Orange County.
Some people might find the detailed world building to be dull, but in some ways, it reminded me of a childhood favorite, The Other Side of the Mountain, or a pioneer book.
I'm a little disappointed that the other books cover different interpretations of the future Orange County and won't continue this post-apocalyptic setting.
However, as a native Californian, I adore speculative fiction set in the state, and I will read the next books at some point.
Fantastic story, compelling characters, interesting issues, vivid writing - I just loved it.It is set in America "after the bombing".
This is a combination of truth and tall tales, and in fact, this is a strong theme in the book - the importance of story telling and the need for "lies".Henry has to make some hard choices when he meets outsiders urging him to join the "resistance", a group people who vow to fight the outside worlds attempts to "keep America down".
I had already read his Mars trilogy (Red Mars, Green Mars, and Blue Mars) and had liked them but had trouble at times with his didactic style/approach, even when I agreed with his point of view (which I don't always).
However, this book was his first novel and I really liked it.
It was written in 1984 and has eerie resonance for events to come that have actually happened -- e.g. 9/11 and climate change for a couple of strong examples.
It compares well with anything Cormac McCarthy has written, and while dark, he doesn't have the unrelenting grimness that overwhelmed me in reading McCarthy's The Road.
My first read by the author.I've been a huge a fan ever since.
A book in the fine American tradition of 'Huckleberry Finn'; the innocent who wises up but at a terrible cost.A very convincing post apocalyptic world is created by Kim Stanley Robinson.
It is also a very ironically prescient world (it was written in 1984) where America is defeated in some sort of conflict and severely crippled.
After the nuclear apocalypse a sort of basic, near the edge communities start to emerge along the Californian coast.
The book is the story of a teenage boy in one such community.
KSR does what he does best and plays with ideas in this book.
Not so much a Sci-Fi or Post Apocalyptic novel as a coming of age adventure, the story of a young man Hank in a small community struggling to survive years after the bombs went off.
Life has regressed to fishing and farming, with limited contact with other communities to trade the few things any of them have to offer.
Hank and his buddies dream of better times but when opportunities present themselves are they all what they seem?
Written in an easy, fairly old-fashioned style (it is over 30 years old), The Wild Shore is a pleasant read that ambles along but never drags.
I loved Aurora and wanted another that follows the same basic template, ie a slow moving, broad-scoped hard sci-fi novel that is more about process than plot.
Instead though, The Wild Shore is a relatively basic dystopia.
Perhaps it's due to the fluctuating nature of dystopia--in the 80s I'd guess the US was back in "duck and cover" mode after anti-detente Reagan came to power--but I found the idea of America as a passive agent bombed to hell without any instigation on our part to be way out of touch with the contemporary American political climate.
Il romanzo è stato scritto nell’84: può apparire una chiara presa di posizione rispetto alla politica Usa di quegli anni, caratterizzata dal riarmo reaganiano e dalla sfida all’URSS tramite le tanto propagandate (ma mai realizzate) “Guerre stellari”, che avrebbero dovuto essere qualcosa di simile ai raggi laser montati su satelliti, che nel romanzo i giapponesi usano per distruggere le ferrovie che i californiani tentano di ricostituire.Il fascino di KSR però è che il suo “socialismo” non è tanto “politico” quanto “umano” (altrimenti sarebbe un saggista anzichè un ottimo scrittore): è calato e vissuto nella vita quotidiana delle comunità, in maniera direi anche più convincente dell’anarchia nei “Reietti dell’altro pianeta”.
At least, Onofre is part of a place once called California, but that name has been fairly meaningless for sixty years, since a large-scale disaster decimated the population and isolated the small groups of survivors.
Henry is fascinated by the stories of his teacher Tom, still spry at over 100 years old, though he's never quite sure whether to believe the tales.
It's information that may change their whole way of life.I was excited when I realized Kim Stanley Robinson had written a novel in my beloved post-apocalyptic genre, since I was blown away by his Mars trilogy.
THE WILD SHORE was his first published novel, and it turns out to be a rather less accomplished work.
second read - 2009 October 15 - ***** I first read all three of Kim Stanley Robinson's Orange County novels as they came out, which was spread out over a few years in the 1980s.
They are related to each other, not sequentially, but as three alternate futures for the same Orange County (extensive suburban area of Los Angeles).
They can be read stand-alone, or in any order.
A dystopia.Pacific Edge - a future where deliberate population reduction and choice of sustainable lifestyles has led to a technological but low key network of villages in Orange County.
On the West Coast, in a small village in what was once Orange County, a young man writes down a narrative history of his life during an eventful summer when survivors in nearby San Diego try to begin knitting California, and the United States, back together again.
By the end you realize that the dreams of this young man and his fellow teenage friends are simply not going to come true: America is finished, and the narrator realizes it.
There is a haunting quality to his work; he writes well, and you end up actually caring about what happens to his characters.
Well done - a small village of interesting characters pulling themselves together over the course of several decades after a nuclear war.America's population has been decimated by fusion bombs, so radioactivity is not the major legacy, just ruin by explosions, death, and a strange coalition of nations charged to keep America from rebuilding.
(Apparently Russia or some nation was able to pin the blame on the US for the conflict and other nations are coerced into keeping "her down.")But that is all just backdrop for the flow of characters living simple hard lives, and grasping at memories and ruins of a wealthy civilization to goad them into small acts of resistance.No flaws, interesting tale.


I have been a big fan of KSR, ever since the Mars series, and when I like an author, I try to read all of their work.I think this is KSR's earliest published work, and it's definitely much more raw than his later stuff.
It's the improbable story of a US post nuclear attack, that's been quarantined from the rest of the world.
Overall it's pretty good, one of those post-apoc spec fiction pieces that was popular in the 80s and is now again popular, although the premise is dated.
I'd recommend it if you're a big KSR fan like I am.
Interesting, if dated, examination of an alternate Orange County. As a kid, I used to go to San Onofre with my family when my dad was a member of the surf club. Hard to imagine n ding snow-shoes to get about in the winter.
I finally got through a book by Kim Stanley Robinson!
I really wanted to read and enjoy his Mars trilogy, but I got bogged down in the characters and their politics, which I had no interest in.
I wanted to read about Mars, of course!
This book feels like it's by a different author.
Maybe that happens later in the book and I'll try it again one day.With well-developed characters and gorgeous descriptions of the natural environment, this book was just what I wanted, and I've already picked up the next one in the series.
My only complaint is that the plot drags a bit and not too much happens, but that just made the story feel more real.
This is pure conjecture on my part, not having read the other two volumes as of yet, however.The Wild Shore was an Ace SF original, published in the same line edited by the late Terry Carr as William Gibson's Neuromancer.
Like his short story, "Down and Out in the Year 2000," The Wild Shore can be read as an answer to the cyberpunk belief that technology will reinvent the world.
So it was interesting to read this, his first published novel, an “Ace Special” edited by the legendary Terry Carr.The Wild Shore is a coming-of-age tale set in Onofre, an isolated village on the California coast south of San Clemente, 60 years after nuclear war has decimated the United States.
In true coming-of-age style, Henry makes decisions he comes to regret, and learns about life and love in the process.The Wild Shore is the first of his “Three Californias Triptych”, with loose prequels The Gold Coast and Pacific Edge.
I didn't know what to expect from a KSR post-apocalyptic story (especially as it is an early work for him), but after finishing it I thought "yes, this is exactly a KSR post-apocalyptic story."Can't wait to read the other two in the triptych.
Nuclear war. People survive. Stuff happens. Parts interesting. Parts uninteresting. Parts meandering.
I loved this book!
The second generation post-apocalypse is reaching adulthood and we follow a group of them, centered on Henry.The writing is lush, but not overdone, as Robinson depicts a hard, pastoral life in a small coastal community.
The future is suddenly uncertain as Henry heads off on an adventure with his almost-magical mentor Old Tom.This reminded me a lot of Neville Shute, whose books I love: exciting events but grounded in the everyday life of a community of real, close friends that we come to care about.
We experience life through Hank's perspective and by the end I was fully immersed, rooting for him as I would for myself.

Notable in part for the use of the phrase "Make America Great Again" in a novel written in 1984. It's no Red Mars, but there's a lot to like in this story of a coastal community making a life for itself decades after nuclear catastrophe. The narrator and his friends have sort of this "gee whiz isn't this an adventure" tone throughout that's mostly fun but occasionally rings false; despite some writing foibles, there are some really beautiful and impactful sections (Henry's swim, Tom's story of meeting his double).
This book kept me holding on, not because it is so fantastically interesting, more because of the tiny bits of story that were somewhat interesting. His interpretation of what the changed environment would be like and how the "end" would come about via a well coordinated terrorist attack were fascinating. The human side of the story - most of the plot was slow, but I'll probably read the rest of the series soon.
I really wanted to like this book, I tried to continue reading, but in the end, I don' think there were enough interesting ideas to grab me. Sorry, I left it unfinsihedUPDATE: I gathered strength to finish it, and I'm happy I did it. The end is better and I updated the score. Anyway, I don't really like post-apocalyptic books, that might have influenced the score.
Absolutely fantastic read. A novel set in post-apocalyptic America written in the 1980s, that is still very relevant and as real as it gets. Slower than other books of the genre, but just as consuming. Definitely recommended!!! (Would not recommend the other 2 in the series thought - sadly)
Read my full thoughts on this book and hundreds more over at Read.Write.Repeat.Overall, I'm glad I finally picked this one up. It was different and a nice change from the other things I've been reading lately.
A thought provoking book
