https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/562407.Mr_Lincoln_s_Army
The men were rewarded for long weeks on the parade ground under the drillmaster’s abuse with elaborate brigade and division reviews, at the end of which their young commander, astride a massive black charger, and followed by an entourage as splendidly mounted and uniformed as himself, went galloping down the lines of hurrahing troops, turning to acknowledge their cheers with a gesture one witness described as going beyond a formal salute—a courtly twirl of his cap “which with his bow and smile seemed to carry a little of good personal fellowship even to the humblest private soldier.” From McClellan’s performance of the Dashing Young General I step back and note the innocence of the audience that applauds him, tears in their eyes and cheers on their lips.
"Mr. Lincoln's Army" is the first title of Catton's "The Army of the Potomac Trilogy." It was followed by "Glory Road" and "A Stillness at Appomattox." The latter volume was awarded the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize, placing Catton among the elite Civil War historical writers.Catton (1899 to 1978) was not a professional historian.
This book focuses on the events from the beginning of the war until the late fall of 1862, a period of time marked for its long series of Union reverses and missed opportunities.
Didn't like this one as much as Shelby Foote's epic trilogy but still very good.
Thank you Bruce Catton for educating me without frustrating me...Most of the interesting Civil War books that I have read - most of them reasonably accurate historical fiction - have been focussed more on the Southern generals.
Hindsight is surely 20/20, but it's upsetting to recognize how a decisive victory could have caused the entire war to crumble.Generally the book was more about the people than the troop movements, and I appreciate Catton's heavy use of journals and regimental histories.
The analysis of Antietam got a little too detail-oriented for me, but I recognize that many people want the history of a battle like that.
Among the other cheap, pulp-paper editions she got were a complete Sherlock Holmes and Bruce Catton's Army of the Potomac , consisting of  Mr. Lincoln's Army, Glory Road, and A Stillness at Appomattox.
Lincoln's Army covers the early months of the war, when the Army was under the command of the heartbreaking General George McClellan, a brilliant soldier, trainer, and tactician.
Because he didn't have that killer streak, the war went on for years more.He made the raw recruits under his command into a great and professional army.
The first book in Bruce Catton's civil war trilogy which I picked up from a recommendation in Goodreads.
This is the story of General McClellan's time at the head of the Army of the Potomac.
It takes him through his troubles with General Pope and political strife with Washington, the campaign in the South Carolina penninsular and back northward ending at the Battle of Antietam.
I found this a book written in a moving and readable style.
The bitter slaugther at Antietam had me close to tears.
These battles have much in common with those of the later WW1 in europe.
Tragic and somehow senseless.A recommended book.
If you think that history has to be dry or boring, then you only need to read Bruce Catton's Army of the Potomoc Trilogy to see how it should be done. Catton's characters come to life as well as any fictional novel, even though he's writing about real people and the things they actually did. The trilogy is older, and modern scholarship has revealed some small inaccuracies in Catton's work, but the series is so well-written that it remains a useful introduction to the main front in the Civil War.
One of the all-time great Civil War historians, and the first book of a trilogy that was his best work. Anyone who is interested in the Civil War should read this trilogy
The book focuses on the Army of the Potomac from just before the Second Battle of Bull Run until just after the brutal battle of Antietem.
Still, McClellan was a flawed, yet much beloved (by his troops) general.The book does a great job of showing the North's soldiers transition from naïve to serious fighters.
The courage of both North and South during the one day battle of Antietem was almost unfathomable.
And Catton does a great job of explaining how that brutal encounter changed the Civil War's goals and kept Europe out of the conflict.
Well-written account of the early years of the Army of the Potomac, focusing in particular on McClellan and his peculiar character defects, and ending with a meticulously described account of Antietam. Offers a detailed account not only of the progress of the war but of what it was like to be a soldier--the daily privations and indignities and occasional reprieves, etc.
An excellent history of the Army of the Potomac up to the conclusion of the Battle of Antietam. Filled with human-interest anecdotes about the men of Mr. Lincoln's Army from buck private to major general.
A fantastic introduction to the Civil War. Not only the battles, but the politics, also, which are as (or more) important than the battles. While occasionally long-winded (no one writes this way, anymore) it is never boring and is always concise. Highly recommended.
Very interesting account of the war through the bloodiest battle of the Civil War.
Amazing recounting of the early days of the Army of the Potomac. Never before in US history has a group of great men been led by so many incompetent men. Immensely frustrating, yet instructive.
Loved this book in audio. Catton is an excellent storyteller.
It is not a detailed play-by-play of the battles; the reader will not learn how each brigade or each regiment was deployed, and the number of casualties it inflicted or received.
Rather, it is the story of the army as a whole and its experiences, although individual brigade and regimental incidents are mentioned, giving the reader a chance to see the history as the participants did.
The easiest way to see what was going on—in the soldiers’ emotions, and in the war itself—is to follow the career of the Black Hat Brigade, which was to become famous.Through these and other vignettes, author Catton carries the reader through the opening campaigns.
My knowledge of the Civil War is essentially truncated neatly into an relatively small understanding of why, names of primary individuals of interest, and the dates/locations of major military engagements.This particular book that I have had in my hands for about a half a month, comes from my father.
This particular book, and the other two books of "The Army Of The Potomac" series by Catton, were purchased by my father around the time I was born (1965) during the centennial celebration of this particular time frame of American history.
And regardless if you are a Civil War `novice" or "expert" - Catton does not disappoint.Mr. Lincoln's Army is the first book of the author's trilogy chronicling The Army of the Potomac, covering the first 14 months or so of its existence.
Just the description/analysis of McClellan's personality/mind-set, his effect on the Army of the Potomac and Catton's narrative of the Battle of Antietam make this book well worth the read, but that's only part of the story you will find here.Mr. Lincoln's Army was published 60 years ago, but the book is still available, though you may have to do a little looking around for it.
Writing in the preface about an old one-armed Civil War veteran he had known growing up in Michigan, "This aged berry-peddler, for instance, who lost his arm in the Wilderness: he had never told me about the wounded men who were burned to death in the forest fire which swept that infernal stretch of woodland while the battle was going on; nor had any of his comrades who survived that fight and went on through the whole campaign to the last days at Petersburg ever mentioned the lives that were wasted by official blunders, the dirt and the war-weariness and the soul-numbing disillusionment that came when it seemed that what they were doing was going for nothing".Leading up to the first volume's greatest tragedy, the battle of Antietam, is one of the greatest descriptions of the two armies literally facing each other on the eve of the single bloodiest day in American military history; "There was a tension in the atmosphere for the whole army that night.
I've read a lot of American Civil War related books and this definitely has something to offer interested readers, but it is also the most unevenly written book I have encountered.
The author is particularly skilled -- outstanding even -- at presenting narrative vignettes surrounding historical events, such as battles.
Unlike, Stephen Ambrose, for instance, whose work I have read, seemed like a middle schooler during a book report rushing through index cards he had pieced together of bits and pieces of information he had come upon, this author comes close at times to getting his vignette gems to nearly outshine the major events to which they are attached.
Catton is one of our foremost historians on The Civil War. I'm late getting into this war, though I've read a lot of books in the past on mainly the First World War, and some on the Second World War. But I've read a lot of books about Lincoln, and wanted to understand all of the background behind the war, and the men who fought it.
When you have a war on that is killing the men of your country, and the general in charge refuses to take the initiative, you are going to lose any patience with him.
This is the first book of a trilogy by author Bruce Catton about the Civil War exploits of the Army of the Potomac.
Catton gives the reader a lot of insight into the personalities and capabilities of the commanders, the lives of the ordinary soldiers, the deposition and peculiarities of the various units, and the details and horrors of the fighting.
It is a wonderful insight into that time and those events.I'm embarrassed to say I was not familiar with Bruce Catton, who turns out to have been a renowned historian, Civil War expert, editor and author.
If you have any interest in American history, Bruce Catton should be on your list of authors.
Catton is very good at describing people and places, but for me the narrative was often interrupted by his monologues about the future of the army and explaining what the war means for modern readers.
While some of his thoughts about the changing nature of the war, especially after Antietam are interesting and well thought out, it started to wear me out and I started to wonder if this book is really about the Army of the Potomac or if it was really about what Catton wanted to say about the war.
Some of the information is now a little dated as American Civil War scholarship has been expanded.
If you are familiar, than there are better things you could be reading about the American Civil War.
You almost wonder what will happen next, unless you've read other histories of the Civil War, and you know that certain place names meant disaster for the Union Army...names like Antietam and Fredericksburg.
You start feeling butterflies in your tummy, knowing tragedy is about to unfold in the coming pages.If you've never read about the Civil War, I think Bruce Catton can't be beaten as the author to begin with.
I read his 3-volume Centennial History of the Civil War about 35 years ago, knowing next to nothing at the time about that war, and was immediately pulled into those books.
I am a big Bruce Cattonfan. This was perhaps the first Catton Civil War book I read, having acquired the book randomly. I later read all of Catton's major Civil War works, and extended my reading to Shelby Foote (Author), Henry Steele Commager andJames M. McPherson, author of Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era. The Civil War as told by Catton has for me a haunting, mixed quality of incredible bravery (both sides), with horrible self-destruction of a great nation. I would commend this book to all Civil War fans (it is from the northern view).
I'd held off on reading Bruce Catton's books for a while, because they're kind of old.
I was worried that they'd be dated, compared to newer materials that are available.
Catton won a Pulitzer for a reason, he's a great writer!
Catton's writing style is compelling and dramatic, without going overboard, and I think he would hold the attention of readers who aren't Civil War buffs, as well as those that are.
It's also nice to read Civil War history from a Northern perspective, as there's still too much Lost Cause and Neo-Lost Cause material out there.
This was a great overview of the Eastern Theater of the Civil War. It combines first person accounts with general descriptions of the events well.
It also interjects some background history when necessary, to ensure the reader fully understands the history.I do not recommend for readers unfamiliar with Civil War history.
Many of the information in the book comes from interviews with veterans the author conducted when he was young.If you are interested in the American Civil War, I definitely recommend it.
If you are unfamiliar with the history, I recommend starting with more general histories of the Civil War, such as James McPherson's "Battle Cry of Freedom" before reading this.

I first read Bruce Catton when I was still in grade and middle schools and he is still my favorite author on the Civil War. This book covers the Army of The Potomac from the time General McClellan takes command after First Bull Run until after Antietam where he was relieved.
The author's style tells the story while painting a picture that takes the events and makes them come to life.
Even a casual reader will come away with a clear picture of the events that transpired in this period in this army.
Good history of the Union's most famous army.I gave this book five stars because it is one of the best histories of the war told from the Union viewpoint.
Carton does avoid discussing slavery and abolition and their impact on the war.
At times, sadly, Catton seems to hold abolitionists and the passions of anti-slavery politics equally to blame for the severity of the war and downplays the brutal nature of slavery.
However, if you are looking for detailed history of what the Union army, from general to private, experienced then Mr. Lincoln's Army is a good place to start.
