https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12275.The_Intelligent_Woman_s_Guide_to_Socialism_Capitalism_Sovietism_and_Fascism
I didn't buy this for the title (although, what a title). I bought it for the index, which is four pages long and full of interesting stuff. Also because it was the first book in the Pelican imprint.Also because it's the kind of thing I want to be seen reading on a train.
قد خص الكاتب المراة في كتابه لانه كان يري ان فيها امل الانسانية لانها تقوم بأعظم عمل في الوجود وهو ا
HOw to describe this book without a lecture on Shaw? Absolutely the wittiest and most engaging discussion of economic systems and their real effects ever. Does that sound too dry? Perhaps, but the book is not. And as always, Shaw's real agenda is like that of Dolly Levy: 'money is like manure [and should be] spread around, helping young things grow'. Bless GBS!
I read this book so that I could increase my knowledge of communism.
I figured reading a communist was a good idea to help with this.
He never really comes to any concrete points.
Over and over again, he makes a statement and then in the next couple of chapters says almost the exact opposite.
I will always be glad I read this, and I know I will refer back to it many times in the years to come when I need to pop into the head of a communist.
It's always good to understand the people who think oppositely from you.
As one might gather from the title, this book is patronising of women and assumes that they (we) naturally share a limited perspective compared with men. [Note: Lillian Le Mesurier authored a correction, titled 'The Socialist Woman's Guide to Intelligence: A Reply to Mr Shaw'.] Shaw does, however, argue compellingly that capitalism is unjust and ruthlessly self-serving. An interesting resource for those wanting to expand upon their understanding of socialism.
convinced me that socialism wasn't a millenarian dream. smart and convincing. socialism is the best interest of society. read it and then disagree.
I've read snippets of this -- it's, of course, very dates, but Shaw was trying to make change in another age from ours. Great historical book, if you're interested in the history of socialism or women's issues.
I - perhaps naïvely - didn't expect this to be quite so patronising!
It has to be said, a Man writing a book for women perhaps he should have stuck to writing plays. Still, it's written by Shaw, a Man.
I've included this in my course reader for my economics course critical of current economic practices. It is quite brilliant, on point, and funny.
The Intelligent Woman's Guide to Socialism and Capitalism 1928, written as a long form response to his sister in law for his ideas on socialism. Shaw found most works on socialism not accessible to readers or presenting what he thought was not socialism. Womens suffrage was expanding in the 1920s, so the education of women on different political-economic ideologies was important as well. Shaws book is very original and thought-provoking, a joy to read. Even if one doesnt accept his arguments the
Shaw's own motive for socialism is an aristocratic one: lift up the poor so they can live comfortably too by dividing wealth into equal shares of income.
Paying people more to do something means they don't want to do that work, working for a living can be degrading.Shaw recognizes like John Calhoun that in most societies one part of the population lives on the labor of the others which allows for them a higher standard of living, which Calhoun used to justify slavery as the means of sustaining civilization.
Shaw's scheme only works if the means of production, resources, labor and capital, are all owned by the state.
A good book. A little dated, perhaps, and hard work to read, but for a thorough, well-explained insight into modern politics and economics, I'm yet to read better. It's dense because it's so thorough, and whilst I may not agree with some of his arguments, they are easy enough to follow and he uses some excellent (but dated) examples. In the introduction by Polly Toynbee in my edition, she strongly suggests that every household should have a copy. I think every teenage girl should be given a copy and made to read it. She'd find it enlightening.
اسلوي برنارد شو الساخر لطف من حدة الملل في مادة الكتاب ولكن الاسهاب فيه كان قاتلا وفي بعض الاحيان احسسني بالتوهان.. الكتاب لن يفيدنا اليوم للاحاطة بالمفاهيم المذكورة لان الكتاب كتب قبل قرن مضى من الزمان ولكنه مفيد للاحاطة علما بالاوضاع الاقتصادية في التاريخ بالذات في اوروبا وبريطانيا وامريكا
I actually read an original copy from 1904 printed in London! Great economic explanations and very fitting for the time.
