https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8475505-rebel-belle
Super fun and funny read
Once again, my chest tightened, and there was that weird fluttering sensation that was like butterflies. But it couldn’t be butterflies. I did not have butterflies over David Stark. 25% of the way in, I was sure I would give this book a 4, but I ended up wanting to fling this book at Harper's head. This book may be really, really cute, but overall, it's just an overextended love triangle without much of a plot. Nothing of importance happens in this book.This was not a bad book by any means. I a
But seriously, there was no fucking point to the love triangle, and I wanted to bash my head in every time the WONDERFUL BESTEST BOYFRIEND EVER Ryan clashed with BROODING HIPSTER ASSHOLE (with a heart of gold) David.
She has a great life (let's not talk about her dead sister), a loving, wonderful boyfriend Ryan, fantastic friends, adoring parents, and a bright future.Southern Belles are beautiful on the surface, sure, but what you might fail to notice upon first glance is that they have a backbone made of steel.
In fact, this book does quite a lot of new things with the characters, the friendships and the romance, which set it apart from many other YA books and made sure I would have to get my hands on the sequel as soon as possible.
Interesting and refreshing subversion of gender roles; I'm not going to say too much about their relationship but I really liked how that was handled too.In the end, Rebel Belle is mainly a book about a young women who discovers that her life isn't headed down the perfect little path she'd laid out for herself.
“I had just killed a teacher.With my shoe.”  Buffy the Vampire Slayer meets Hart of Dixie and ancient Greece.Katerina approves.So,Harper is a perfect southern lady,waiting to be crowned Homecoming Queen,when she finds the school janitor dying in the girls' bathrooms and said janitor passes her some weird mojo by kissing her and her History teacher attacks her and she goes ninja.Not your typical Homecoming night,right?Confused and panicked,Harper finds out that she became a Paladin,a warrior an
Buffy the Vampire Slayer meets Hart of Dixie and ancient Greece.Katerina approves.So,Harper is a perfect southern lady,waiting to be crowned Homecoming Queen,when she finds the school janitor dying in the girls' bathrooms and said janitor passes her some weird mojo by kissing her and her History teacher attacks her and she goes ninja.Not your typical Homecoming night,right?Confused and panicked,Harper finds out that she became a Paladin,a warrior and protector, and every bizarre thing that happens in her life evolves around David.freaking.Stark.
I LOVED THIS. Here's my full review!: http://youtu.be/kZ-woVqnwkQ
Goes down like a cool glass of sweet tea on a hot summer's day. SO much fun! If you love Hex Hall or other lighthearted, funny paranormal books, you'll certainly enjoy this.Full review, ARC giveaway, and hummingbird cake recipe posted to the blog! http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...
She’s exactly what I imagine Mac to have been like in high school.
Her life is the high school dream your parents tried to get you to believe in.
That is until the night of the homecoming dance, when a school janitor locks himself in a bathroom with her and then kisses her before bleeding to death in her arms.
Sure, they’re a little naïve, but they learn from their mistakes, and where a lot of authors would add drama and angst into this storyline (because Harper has a boyfriend that SERIOUSLY factors into the ending of this book), THIS author did not.
I LOVED THIS! It was so fun and hilarious and just overall an awesome read! The story was surprisingly action-packed and the characters were all wonderful--especially Harper, who was a fantastic protagonist. She was the perfect blend of girly and kick-ass and I just loved spending time with her! AND THAT ENDING! I can't wait to see how this story unfolds in the next book. I WANT THE SEQUEL NOW PLEASE!(Full video review coming soon!)
Perhaps even more often than I usually would b/c sometimes it’s fun to bother your husband.*smiles winsomely*The point is that it is a truth universally acknowledged that your family has to have lived in the South for several generations before you are really and truly Southern, and I have a sneaking suspicion that Ms. Hawkins is really and truly Southern, b/c REBEL BELLE captures that essential Southern-ness better than anything I have read in a long, long time.It was positively delightful.I laughed so hard and so often that I was grateful to be reading in the privacy of my own home, AND I read all of it in one sitting.
She was bossy and judgemental, but that was okay because she was being Harper and I knew that she wasn't being malicious, she just had a different personality to my own and I appreciated that.Excitingly, I'm going to be doing a full review for this book because while I was reading I kept thinking "I want to talk to my subscribers about this part!
"When you die in a hundred years, they'll probably write on your gravestone, 'Here Lies Harper Price - Damn It, She Still Had Stuff to Do!” First of all, Second,  This book was probably the hugest disappointment I've had since when I was 3 and found out you don't get a candy tree if you plant gummy bears. I decided to read it because I've been told the main character is both girly and a badass and, in all honesty, I'm soooo done with authors shoving down our throats the same kickass female char
Even if I’m not going to spend any word on the matter, the book itself is not even that bad.The writing is sort of nice and funny in its own frilly way, and I could easily bypass the teenage angst, the plot holes, the cheesy romance and the inaccuracy of the facts.Heck, I could even momentarily forget about how rushed and anticlimactic (and flipping absurd, jesus fries) the ending was…But I could never, ever, ever forgive the author for failing what could have been a pleasant book with one of the worse main characters I’ve read about in the last two years.Since it’s only fair to give credit where credit is due, I’ll start this rant by saying that I firmly hate double-standards, and I recognize that Harper has some flaws (things like being so confident and inconsiderate to the point it gets annoying, for example) that could be seen as positive or charming traits if she were a male character.
A lot of people raved about this book and recommended it to me, but for some reason I still wasn't expecting much out of this book.SO GLAD IT SURPRISED ME.
She wasn't over-the-top southern like in some books i've read *cough*BEAUTIFUL CREATURES*cough* but she was the perfect mixture of sassy and awesome and hilarious and southern.The story was really original too!
I mean there were some typical YA novel cliches, but the overall storyline is pretty fantastically original.
I definitely haven't read anything like this book!OVERALL.
EVERYONE READ IT NOW BECAUSE SO GOOD AND ENJOYABLE AND FANTASTIC.I am so glad this is going to be a series.
I deem it appropriate to start the year with a good laugh, so: welcome 2016.
Kind of.•The protagonist of this story, Harper Price, is perfect.
She may seem perfect and good at everything she does, and I won't say she is not, but she's not only that: she can get all awkward and ill-at-ease, and if I started to call her names when she almost freaks out for forgetting the lipstick at home, I couldn't help warming to her during the rest of the book.
She's like a good friend, I told you.And in case you're wondering, yes, I have a thing for David.
This book exceeded my expectations! It's such a fun and thrilling ride. If you're interested in hearing more of my thoughts check out my video review here: http://youtu.be/NnE1bM57JK0 Um... I DID NOT SEE THAT PLOT TWIST COMING. I'm going to have to do a book talk for this one! So much to talk about.
PLEASE GO READ REBEL BELLE!
I wanted a good rom com book to read for a lazy night in.....
SO I decided on rebel belle to be my date for the evening, so of course I had to set the mood....
and lets just say that Rachel Hawkins didn't disappoint me on this book date.
For this story having it just start worked out so well.
I loved the way Rachel Hawkins found a kind of comical way of Harper get her powers because its not very often in ya books does a girl get ninja skills from a janitor planting a kiss on her!
4 stars. I loved it! But man, Hex Hall was waaaay better!THAT COVER IS QUITE FABULOUS. Its like the girly version of Macbeth. (Knife/Crown)
------*I need a doctor...*COVER!
♥ 4 ''Loved it!'' stars ♥This book was so much fun!
I actually read this book while eating popcorn.
It also contains a little bit of creepy and/or strange scenes that are only going to make you want to read more and more of it.Harper might seem to you, at the beggining of the story, a little too girly and vain, but she's actually not that way.
The story might very likely seem to you either very interesting or fun.
Sweet and rightly accompanying the story.If you liked/loved Rachel Hawkins' other books, there are many chances you'll appreciate Rebel Belle too.Happy reading!
Looking back, none of this would have happened if I’d brought lip gloss the night of the Homecoming Dance.That is the first line of the book. With just that, I already started having bad feels about it. My interest even died with that sinple first line. The ironic thing is... what Harper the perfect Belle says is true: If she hadn't forgotten her goddamned lip-freaking-gloss, there would have been no story.But really, was there a story? If I remember well, the book started with Harper and her f
If I remember well, the book started with Harper and her friends at Homecoming party, she forgot her stupid lip gloss, went to the bathroom to put it on, and things started getting weird for fuckery's sake - meaning, everything that happened screamed that the author was trying too hard to make you laugh.
Much predictable, huh?Now, as final words, picture what I said in my pre-review: Your mother baked a delicious cake on Sunday, but not all of it was eaten that day so they put it in the fridge.
So it was cool seeing the girl being the sole protector- I also enjoyed the southern belle-turned-superhero plot.
Harper goes from worrying about dresses, school functions and the perfect boyfriend to worrying about protecting her archenemies from being killed.- I loved the comedy aspect of it.
I expected a “Current-boyfriend-turns-A-hole-to-make-way-for-new-love-interest” situation but it was not like that at all and I really appreciate that.- Harper doesn’t like people swearing/cursing which I related to bc same lol If you’re looking for a fun, no-stress read, I recommend this.
Initial Thoughts This was such a fun easy read and I laughed so much.
HUMMINGBIRD CAKETotal Time:2 hr 5 min Prep: 50 min Inactive: 20 min Cook: 55 min Yield: 10 to 12 servings Ingredients: Unsalted butter, for greasing 2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting 1 cup pecan pieces 3 ripe bananas, chopped 1/2 cup finely chopped fresh pineapple 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 3 large eggs, at room temperature 1 3/4 cups granulated sugar 1 cup vegetable oil For the Frosting: 2 packages cream cheese (8 ounces each), at room temperature 12 tablespoons unsalted butter, cubed, at room temperature 2 cups confectioners' sugar 1 tablespoon finely grated lemon zest 1 teaspoon vanilla extractMake the cake: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
4.25 stars Buddy read with Kat!Oh my god, this was so much fun!
Me and Kat should've just picked this book a while ago!
I loved all the characters, I loved the romance; I found it adorably hilarious; and I loved the cool little plot!
I loved this book!
It's so funny, it's been a while since I laughed this hard while reading a book.
One thing that made me love this book more was how the romance stuff happened.
Harper is already in a relationship, and no, there was no cheating, her boyfriend is so sweet, and I really like himOverall, this book was such a wonderful treat, and I think I'll continue on with the series!
Although, in the end, I love how it turned out and I was pleasantly surprised by the development of the romance and characters.I think one of the best things about this book is how realistic it is, I felt like the characters dealt and reacted to everything in a feasible way.
I would say that much of the book is predictable, but there were definitely some curve balls.Overall, it's a slower story with a lot of character and plot development, but an easy, fun read!I don't think it is a book for everyone.
*3,7 Homecoming-queen-turns-out-Superhero stars* “So, Harper Jane Price. Are you ready to accept your destiny?”I withdrew my hand. “No, thank you.” On her Homecoming night, soon to be its queen Harper Price experiences very unfortunate encounter in girl's bathroom involving wounded school janitor who kisses Harper before bleeding to death, scimitar wielding history teacher who tries to kill her immediately afterwards and to top of it all Harper experiences a sudden rush of kick-ass powers, which
There is an interesting paranormal aspect involving magic and superpowers, but overall Rebel Belle feels more like a contemporary read mixed with little bit of paranormal elements.
I really enjoyed the kind of hate-to-love relationship Harper and David Stark (every time I read his name, I can't stop thinking about those Starks.
The heroine is a wonderful Southern belle/overachieving Homecoming queen with love for fashion, great ambitions and newly gotten superhero calling.
Harper Price, our protagonist, is the town’s golden girl: Southern belle, Homecoming Queen, SGA president, and 4.0 GPA student.
But what this golden girl doesn’t know is that her life is going to take a drastic detour (and all because she forgot her lipgloss.
I actually quite enjoyed this book.
Her commentary and censoring of swear words (me too, girl, me too) is literally the best thing ever.
The plot twist was like ‘whoa, didn’t see that one coming’ and I’m not entirely sure if it’s going to make the series more interesting or more forced.
David is the hipster guy that wears corduroy pants and writes stories for the school newspaper, occasionally pointing out bad things about Harper, which is unacceptable.
Harper of course, starts to deal with some questionable feelings about David, all while she is dating the most perfect boyfriend possible, Ryan.
Where the girl has a steady boyfriend then meets the new guy and starts to like him.
Now I obviously loved this book and raced through it, but once I was done, there was kind of that moment where I looked back and realized not a whole lot actually happened.
The only reason I did not put this book down after the first 30 pages was that I wanted to be wrong. I wanted my friend to be right in saying that this was the best book she read this year. I wanted to prove that I could like books with this type of cover and content, but I failed. Let's face it I prefer my characters complex and my plot twisty ( If that's a real word).
This is a seriously fun book!Our hero is Harper, a proper southern belle.
It just has that funny, quirky feel when there is this girl in pink suddenly becoming this magical Paladin (a guardian for Oracles).Harper has a nemesis: David Stark.
David is a total hipster, and Harper hates the way he dresses:
I loved Harper and David, and all of the quirky characters in between - like Harper's very old, very adorable aunts.
I would suggest this book to anyone who is looking for a light and fun read, and liked Buffy.
I know because I've read Hex Hall, Ms. Hawkins first book, and I know how awesome of a story she can provide and this time I just think it fell flat.The premise of the book isn't that strong to begin with and the whole story of Paladins and Oracles and Mages just didn't really make a lot of sense to me.
I really wanted to get into it but it was hard to get into the fighting scenes between people I didn't even know were good or evil, and I just got tired.But I liked David and his sense of style.
With my shoe    I can practically feel myself slowly crawling out of a hole labelled "slump"After 7 days of not being able to finish a single book I started, I stumbled across Rebel Belle, well more like every where I looked everyone was reading this and I tried to ignore it until I couldn't anymore, and finally, I finshed a book.This book is about a homecoming-queen turned spiderman, getting all those cool assassin powers, and having to protect a guy she hates.That's about as non spoilery a summary you can get.This book was awesome tbh, I mean she kills a guy with a pink sparkly shoe (not a spoiler, literally happens on like the 8th page), why wouldn't I want go read about that.The ship in this book was the cutest thing ever, if you know me, you know I love hate-to-love relationships, and David and Harper were precisely that, if you didn't get that from the non spoilery summary.
