https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121742.An_Anthology
There are some really great insights here. Finished again September 2018.
This is great. For my fellow Lewis enthusiasts it's even better. It's like loving a great man and then having him introduce you to his father. And you hear all the phrases and catch all the drifts and think: so that's where it came from.
Nothing like reading a book about your favorite author, written by your second-favorite author! :)
A "reader" of MacDonald thoughts extracted from the full range of his writings. 365 selections lend themselves to a daily round of reading and reflection. MacDonald, a nineteenth century Scot, expresses ideas which would be at home among contemporary Christian thinkers.C. S. Lewis, who edited this collection, admitted to MacDonald's premier role in Lewis' conversion to Christianity.
Obviously I cannot offer up all of my favourite quotes on this one, but I will offer up the one that is going to carry over and be my motivational quote for 2018.“The man who for consciousness of well-being depends upon anything but life, the life essential, is a slave; he hangs on what is less than himself…Things are given us – this body, first of things – that through them we may be trained both to independence and true possession of them.
But instead of reaching out after them, they grasp at their forms, regard the things seen as the things to be possessed, fall in love with the bodies instead of the souls of them.”
Without further ado, let's get to the reviews!I have been reading a lot of George MacDonald's works lately, due to his influence on Lewis, Tolkien, and other members of the Inklings.
Therefore, when I found out about Lewis' work George MacDonald, I knew I had to read it.
It is a spiritual murder, the worst, to hate, to brood over the feeling that excludes, that, in our microcosm, kills the image, the idea of the hated."C.S. Lewis' preface provided a nice glimpse from an outsider and provided a biography recommendation on George MacDonald.
3.5 stars. Lewis did something very difficult--he found bite-sized pieces of wisdom among George MacDonald's many, many, writings (both fiction and non-fiction). The only thing keeping me from giving this book a higher rating is that MacDonald's writings are so beautiful and full of meaning when read in their entirety that you lose much of this when you pull out paragraph-sized quotes. However, this book serves as an easy introduction to MacDonald and is great for reading in short sittings.
C.S Lewis has selected MacDonald's most poignant passages and put them all together in a delightful 365 Day Readings format. Full of extraordinary treasures! Each day's reading is a perfect size to "chew" and meditate on. They really get you thinking! You can tell that MacDonald was definitely a man "after God's own heart" and be assured that his writings will encourage, inspire and motivate you to grow closer to Christ. (These passages were mainly taken from his book "Unspoken Sermons" though quite a few of his other books were used as well)
A nice anthology... almost every quote is worth chewing on for at least a day.
It's like a treasure vault.Especially I've greatly enjoyed the introduction from C S Lewis, and after reading it, I will for sure recur often to it and read it again and again.What can I say more ?It's a book for life !!!I recommend this book with 5 stars to everybody, and that it's.Here one example which I especially have enjoy:The Last Resource"Lilith, said Mara, you will not sleep, if you lie there a thousands years, until you have opened your hand and yielded that which is not yours to give or to withhold.
How do I know the anthologist is not misrepresenting the author?
At the same time, I knew I was in the hands of a trusted friend (CS Lewis) and so did not spend too much time worrying...
Lewis's introduction is still the best part of the book.
He explains his love for George Macdonald and the influence he has on Lewis.
He even goes into what Macdonald does well, as an author (which is not his writing style).
Lewis was mostly trying to get people to read Macdonald, and even suggested books of Macdonald's to read.
This volume is not a coherent narrative, but rather 365 short (one sentence to a couple paragraphs) selections from the writings of George MacDonald.
MacDonald was a minister and writer in the 1800s, and a significant influence on the philosophy and writing of C.
S. Lewis, who compiled these selections and wrote a preface.All of the passages are relevant to the Christian faith.
Some I passed over without being moved, and others pierced me, grabbing my attention and making me jot them down to keep.
Maxwell in Not My Will but Thine, and recommend it particularly to any Christian, secondarily to any humanist.
Lewis made no secret of the fact that he was heavily influenced by George MacDonald.
The writings of Lewis (especially Mere Christianity and The Screwtape Letters) do indeed echoe many of these thoughts, though I would say that MacDonald has a more mystical bent and many of his ideas smack of perfectionism of a rather Methodist variety (a doctrine I find unsustainable both Scripturally and through observation of the real world).
Overall, this is a great little book with many thought-provoking ideas.
However, to see MacDonald at his best I’d recommend reading the two books of the Curdie series.
I'm going to refrain from rating this book since I wouldn't be sure how to approach it—it being an anthology of quotes from MacDonald, and therefore referential.
As far as the content, MacDonald has the same sort of seriousness about Christ that is refreshing among old writers and thinkers.
When I started the Princess and the Goblin, I was amazed at how uncompelling it was at the beginning—considering Lewis's constant pointing to MacDonald.
So I appreciate how he said, in the introduction, that MacDonald was a poor novelist but a masterful preacher.
I don't love reading words out of context, but these snippets are beautiful, thought-provoking, powerful, and redolent with life.
The more I read MacDonald the more I am convicted (in the best, most life-giving sense) by the God I glimpse through his eyes.
Love has ever in view the absolute loveliness of that which it beholds.
Where loveliness is incomplete, and love cannot love its fill of loving, it spends itself to make more lovely, that it may love more.
. Therefore all that is not beautiful in the beloved, all that comes between and is not of love's kind, must be destroyed.
And our God is a consuming fire." -MacDonald
Lewis never makes secret his admiration for George MacDonald, and this book was a nice, easy introduction to MacDonald's philosophy and writing style.
It's a lot of fun to read - I love how Lewis broke down the readings into little bite sized pieces, which still manage to flow together beautifully like one long, stream of consciousness.
I think this book would be a great devotional companion - each small reading packs a lot of punch.
I think I need read more of MacDonald before getting really excited about his writing (I will probably give "Phantases" a try next.)
I have read much of their fiction and nonfiction, and I expected to enjoy this anthology of quotes.However, many of the quotes are difficult to understand outside of context, or at least would work better within context.
I was also disappointed that Lewis did not select any quotes from "The Hope of the Gospel," a MacDonald book that I thoroughly enjoyed.My advice is if you are a fan of George MacDonald, read the original books from which these quotes are drawn.
Especially read "Phantastes," "Lilith," and the Princess and Curdie books, if you enjoy fantasy fiction.
"The darkness knows neither the light nor itself; only the light knows itself and the darkness also. None but God hates evil and understands it."I really savored this book. It consists of 365 passages from various works by George MacDonald. If you are a C.S Lewis fan you will recognize him as the "teacher" in the Great Divorce.I think anyone will come away from this book with a greater understanding of Christianity (which is wonderful) as well as themselves (which may not be as comforting a thought).
This collection offers a taste of MacDonald’s writings that will leave the reader wanting to read his books in their entirety. Sometimes the quote out of context made me wonder what he was getting at, but mostly it was a great introduction to his work. It was especially interesting to see the passages Lewis chose and to see the influence on his own theology.
It’s one thing to read a favorite author’s influences, but quite another when a favorite author takes the time to draw attention to specific passages that influenced him. C.S. Lewis’s compilation of wisdom from George MacDonald is a valuable resource both for showing thoughts that took seed in Lewis’ own writings, and for the spiritual insight these passages have in their own right.
Must read more George MacDonald. That is what I came away with. As these were only snippets of his work I will definitely have to find out more of what he really meant, but he impacted me greatly on how I think about prayer. I pray because I need it.
There are very many gems (passages which make one put the book down and reflect more deeply) in these excerpts from George McDonald's writings. I think I will enjoy much more to read the passages in their contexts.
While I crammed these short readings into a month, it would also be a great devotional for the year. Taken from MacDonald’s sermons and other writings, it served to deepen my thoughts on spiritual matters as well as give me something to “chew on” throughout the day.
This is an anthology compiled by Lewis for MacDonald's works. Reading through the 365 quotes made me want to read the original works in their entirety, so I would say that Lewis accomplished what he desired.
A potent collection of pithy thoughts from a master that influenced Lewis and many other Christian writers. MacDonald has an abrasive edge that Lewis lacks, but his piercing ideas about faith and fidelity are powerful and as relevant as ever. A great read.
It was nice reading some snippets of George MacDonald's writings since he really influenced one of my favorites, C.S. Lewis. Some of the selections, however, should probably be read in their context because they don't make a whole lot of sense as stand-alones.
Just imagine, C.S. Lewis and George MacDonald putting their heads together to come up with a perfect gift for my friend who captured the lilt of MacDonald in her translation of his "The Baronet's Song" into German: "Das Lied des Baronets". Thank you Elly!
Good.
To steal from another reviewer: there is nothing like reading a book about one of your favorite authors by your favorite author.
Very quotable and insightful.
