https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/429940.Cotton_Comes_to_Harlem
Cotton Comes to Harlem is one of a series of novels that focus on the Harlem section of New York City and feature two black police detectives known as Gravedigger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson.
There is plenty of opportunity to play on stereotypes and show how the white cops involved have little understanding of the people they have sworn to protect.
If you can get through Himes own hang-ups about women, Puerto Ricans and brutality, there are some very interesting things going on in Cotton Comes to Harlem.
But it didn't sell, and after 4 or 5 such professional misfires Himes moved to Paris, where he was convinced by translator and Serie Noir publisher Marcel Duhamel to try his hand at the crime novels which ultimately made him famous.Harlem through the eyes of a Parisian emigre encouraged to write the black humour that always goes over better in France than the States.
Yeah (like Chandler's) the plots can be stupid, but try Cotton Comes to Harlem for the tightest of them, and for a healthy dose of race relations Chester Himes-style.
So when the Reverend Deke O'Malleys Back to Africa movement collects $87,000 from poor black families - only to have it stolen from under their noses - Jones and Johnson get put on the case.Read by Hugh Quarshie.Chester Himes' fantastically atmospheric novel is not just a great thriller it reveals the lives of black people in a white city at a time, three years before the death of Martin Luther King, when under Alabama law killing a Negro did not constitute murder.
His novel For Love of Imabelle became very successful film A Rage in Harlem.Hugh Quarshie is a TV regular in Holby City playing Ric Griffin.
I was really in the mood for more of Chester Himes's Harlem Cycle books and this was the easiest one I could get my hand on at the moment.
I'd read the first two books, A Rage in Harlem and The Real Cool Killers, and loved them.
It was definitely entertaining, but I found that I prefer reading about the more colorful supporting characters and criminals over the detectives Grave Digger and Coffin Ed. Maybe that's why I prefer the first two novels, where the detectives played more supporting roles.
Chester Himes once again mines the street life of mid century Harlem for the setting in which to unspool a great thriller.
Here is how he describes the music at a the Cotton Club, famous Harlem jazz club, "A piano was playing frenetically, a saxophone wailing aphrodisiacally, the bass patting suggestively, the horn demanding and the guitar begging".The recurring characters, African-American police officers Grave Digger Johnson and Coffin Ed Jones are tough guys that are still believable as they approach near mythic status.
One can see how the community in Harlem and their fellow officers, see them this way but they never see themselves this way.
Another manic cartoony excercise in eyeball-popping, jaw-dropping Tex Avery psychosis. This time our favorite badass behemoths Coffin Ed and Grave Digger Jones step in between two huckster ops in old Harlem, Back to Africa (black) and Back to The South (white), the BS group led by a fake Southern plantation colonel type. Avoid the lousy movie adaptation at all costs and pick up some solid pulp, my brother.
Mother-raping cinematic.
Gravedigger Jones and Coffin Ed are two of the most original detectives in crime fiction.
And a perfect opportunity for them to demonstrate their talents is provided by this caper, an extraordinary blast of mayhem, dark humour, social insight, perversion, irony and simmering sensuality, as conman Deke O'Malley persuades families to hand over their savings in order to buy passage on board ships going back to Africa.
But the ships are fictions.
The money scammed from the families is stolen by the thugs of a Back to the Southland movement, run by Alabama 'gentleman' Colonel Calhoun.
This is tremendous absurdist literature in a crime context.
Magic is a hugely abused word and can be as elusive as a loutish runt, trying to lose himself in a Mardi Gras crowd.Very rarely, it manifests itself in some obscure form or the other.
Himes wrote some ground-breakin',spine tinglin',nerve janglin' classics but here, he reaches the zenith.GOD (He is black by the way) decided to put pen to paper one day and this macabre,bawdy,freak Masterpiece was the result.If ever I dream of writing a novel, I only pray to GOD (That nigga again!) that it turns out to be something like this.Read this before you die.
Bet your rump yo'd regret it otherwise.
This is the first book by   Chester Himes that I have read. This book is one of the 8 Harlem Detective mysteries that he published between 1957 and 1969. The detectives, Coffin Ed Johnson and Gravedigger Jones fit in with the Harlem milieu, and use this to solve the crimes. Reading the books now gives me a taste of what life was like in Harlem in the 50's and 60's.
Ευκολοδιάβαστο βιβλίο που μαζί του περνάς ευχάριστα διαβάζοντας τις περιπέτειες των δύο ντετέκτιβ στο σκληρό μαύρο Χάρλεμ. Γλαφυρή η αφήγηση του Himes γεμάτη χρώματα, μυρωδιές, αίμα, σφαίρες, αραπίνες μαύρες ερωτιάρες, ευκολόπιστους μαυρούληδες, μια μπάλα απο μπαμπάκι και 87.000 δολλάρια.
Bettie's Books
Brothers this maps is older than me and if you go back to this Africa you got to go by way of the grave.....I enjoyed this read just as well as I've enjoyed the movie.
And on that whole end of things, he holds up nicely, offering an unflinching, indeed brutal, view on racial politics in New York during the tumultuous years of the 1960's.
Coffin Ed and Gravedigger Jones are Harlem's top cops, working to keep black Harlem from exploding in the face of the white power structures, and the white power structures from brutalizing its inhabitants as much as possible.
But apart from the whole racial aspect of it, Himes just has a really interesting narrative style.
I read A Rage in Harlem a couple of years ago and enjoyed it, and this 7th book in the series featuring hard-boiled black police detectives Grave Digger and Coffin Ed is a good read too.
Written a few years later in 1964, its Harlem setting has acquired a "Back-to-Africa" movement, a competing "Back to the Southland" movement led by a sinister white Southern colonel, and some Black Muslims who hold a tense rally.
The women characters all belong on the covers of lurid pulp fiction, the police dole out slaps and threats to suspects merrily, and it's very much of its time.

A short take:Chester Himes wrote fantastic crime fiction and it is wrong that he is omitted from the frequent praise that mentions Chandler et al.More thoughts:Himes concocts a crazy story and then sets Digger and Ed loose to solve the case. The characters are lusty, violent and crafty. Himes is an excellent writer and his stories are bizarre and toothsome. I want everyone who likes crime fiction to read his work and experience its greatness.
Read this for school and I have to say it was interesting. Not too shabby and good mystery read with focus on the African Americans!! Great to see other point of views of history.
Στα ελληνικά «Βαμβάκι στο Χάρλεμ», εκδόσεις Αγρα.
IF HE HOLLERS LET HIM GO is one my favorite novels which helped inform and inspire the completion of my first full-length novel manuscript back in 2014A RAGE IN HARLEM was one of the cooler crime novels I ever read with it's off-kilter humor and chilling violence.
COTTON COMES TO HARLEM lacks everything I love about two novels above.
There was no real wit, character, backstory, discerning qualities.
It dragged on for me which is tough for a novel only 160pgs but it felt like it was 350pgs.
My biggest problem was the characters:-I couldn't differentiate between Coffin Ed and Grave Digger Jones.
It was the characters that were the biggest let down for me.

This classic hard-boiled detective novel set in Harlem was one of several books shown in the recent Luke Cage series.
While I've read a few of the other works from the show's "reading list," I had never heard of Chester Himes before, an author now known for his crime dramas starring the recurring character of Grave Digger Jones.I'm normally not a big fan of crime stories, but Himes does an amazing job evoking the time and setting of his narrative, which is roughly sometime in the 1960s.
Since this is a fast paced, "hard-boiled" crime drama however, Himes doesn't devote as much time to the subtleties and nuances of race as he does in another great novel of his, "If He Hollers Let Him Go," which is set during WWII.
The real feat of this book is the complete selling of the ridiculous as real: in the streets of Harlem, the money raised by a Back to Africa movement is stolen by a new, competing Back to the Southland movement (yes, one that attempts to persuade free African-Americans to return to the plantations and work there for low wages) and hidden in a bale of cotton.
It is set in Harlem in the mid-1900s, so of course race is a major issue, but that is not what the story is about.
Every moment points to the race issue, but does not declare it.
The characters, and the feeling of Harlem are supremely realistic, at times painfully so.
This book is thoroughly thought-out and feels lived in.
I do thin it was directed (consciously or unconsciously) to a whiter audience and I think it diminishes it.
Instead, he described and mentioned almost every person of color as if they were the oddity in Harlem--We already knew Harlem was black-- like newspaper articles and descriptions of criminals on televison or radio where whites were described by everything but their color and minorities had their ethnicity included in the description.
I think if Mr. Himes were writing today he might do it differently.
I borrowed this from the library but I may order it and keep it in my personal library as I would read it again.
Amazingly, Chester Himes wrote crime novels that successfully blend cartoonish violence with extremely poignant moments, and Cotton Comes to Harlem doesn't deviate from his usual style.
Being part of his nine-novel Harlem Cycle series, this installment again focuses on Coffin Ed Johnson and Grave Digger Jones, some of the earliest known fictional cops who don't play by the rules and get results (and they're even paired with a grumbling chief).As always, Himes' novels shed a little light on the black experience of his era, something that most other crime writers couldn't do, what with the genre (and most other literary genres of the time) being extremely white.
Himes is an African American hard-boiled true crime writer of the first half of the 20th century, and "Cotton" is one of the best known of his "Harlem Detective" novels featuring detectives Gravedigger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson.
The bale travels all over Harlem, and Deke, on the run, is trying to get it back, while other parties are also trying to get that bale of cotton, and Gravedigger and Coffin Ed are trying to find out exactly what is going on.
Like, you're reading it and thinking, wow, this is really misogynistic until you realize that it's not just the women that are portrayed as really venal and contemptible...
but maybe they are, in the end a little more contemptible?Look, it's an interesting caper, it's got some good moments, and it's certainly an interesting sketch of the sketchy side of Harlem of a certain time.
And no doubt Himes gets some good shots in on the varieties of white supremacy and racism.
But it's all a pretty nasty business.Maybe the most fair thing to say is: I'm still processing this one.
Very enjoyableI was a policeman in the South close to this time period.
The book has a truthful resonance.
Naturally being a white policeman during this time you were expected to be a racist.
I wasn't.
I enjoyed the double As as they call themselves now.
All the while hating their self destructive social norms that kept them in bondage to ignorance, criminality and their own blind prejudices.
What I liked most was their zest for life.
Himes captures this very well and in doing so explained an exciting period of my life.
Read this book.
You will like it!

My first foray into the writing of Chester Himes was a bit of a let-down. This was a fair detective novel that veered between near-comical and sheer anger. There is a lot not only between the lines, but in stark, boldfaced type within this short read. Himes addresses racism, stereotypes, culture, and economics in his tale, with Harlem as the epicenter. To that end, he doesn't steer clear of stereotyping himself, whether racial or sexual. There is no shortage of predictable, hard-boiled, lurid writing, along with simmering racial anger and some ugly, unfortunate gender tropes.
