https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395873.Secret_Vampire
Until the pain in her abdomen, which has steadily been increasing, working its way around to her back, keeping her awake at night, and causing her to lose weight, sends her to the doctor.
James Rasmussen, her best friend from El Camino High School, her secret crush, a boy who now tells her something impossible--he's a lamia, a boy who was born a vampire, a member of the Night World, and he can change Poppy into a vampire to avoid certain death.
What follows is a fast-moving, interesting story about Poppy's immersion into becoming a vampire, the toll it takes on her brother, Phil, who finds out what they're doing, and the danger it puts James in.
a story that starts hopeless and end happy.a not-so-classic vampire love story.
This series has always been my least favorite of all Smith's work (except for her first two fantasy novels, which aren't really my jam), but it made an impact on me as a young teen nonetheless.This book was different than it was in my memory (it had been a looooonnngggg time since I'd read it).
There are references to exactly what kind of wrestling James likes, and he and Poppy are basically necking all the time.
And she is the BEST YA AUTHOR EVER THE END.Here's a portrait I did of James a million years ago ...
Buddy Read with Deborah. I didn't enjoy it that much either.actual rating 2.5 stars. This was a fast and entertaining read, but a little too simple and maybe a bit juvenile for me. I may have loved it at 14 though and I think it would be a perfect read for young girls around that age.
2.5 Stars
The lack of parents except during important stuff (Poppy’s diagnosis) was acceptable and enjoyable.As an adult I was a little board with the book.
I was a little more than half way into the book and I thought there was not going to be any action with the little amount of pages I have left to read.
The end of the book explanation is probably accepted with no questions left over.As someone who reads many vampire stories, it is the typical male vampire/ female human love story.
In my personal opinion James should have been a little more aggressive considering he is a vampire and all.
The characters are well developed, interesting.
The writing is captivating enough to keep you interested until the end and leave you wanting more.
Full Disclosure : I participate in reviews with NetGalley, Author Review Requests, Publisher Requests, and Book Tours.
An e-copy was provided to me by NetGalley and/or the Author, and/or the publishers.
There was not any obligation to write a positive review.
All opinions expressed here are entirely mine and may not necessarily agree with those of the author, the book's publisher and publicist, or the readers of this review.
3.5 ⭐I rather enjoyed this
3.5 ⭐️I rather enjoyed this
Leicht zu lesen jedoch mässig spannend
@ P.S. I love that book!I own 9 books of Night World so it was just about time I get to read them.
Her best friend is James, he is the dark vampire who tries to help Poppy when she gets third stage pancreatic cancer.
To be honest, the characters in this book are very simple.LOVE: James is Poppy's best friend.
Poppy is in love with James.
I love witches!PLUS II: As most L.J.Smith books it was a very easy read.
About 80% of this book is about Poppy becoming a vampire.
pour apprendre que Poppy est condamnée, qu'il ne lui reste que quelques semaines à vivre.C'est bien sûr le choc pour tout le monde, surtout pour James, qui lui aussi l'aime en secret (comme c'est mignon) et qui ne peut pas la regarder mourir sans agir.
J'ai eu la mauvaise impression tout au long de ma lecture (qui fut ultra rapide) de survoler une histoire qui aurait pu être quelque chose de pas mal du tout.Je n'ai absolument pas aimé l'héroïne qui pour une fois fait bien son âge, voire beaucoup moins.Et que dire de la fin ?
READ THE FULL REVIEW ON THE BLOGwww.carolineandrus.com/blogUnlike another favorite series from those days, which I re-read in recent years and then questioned my middle grade taste in books, this series is still as amazing as the day I read it.This is a short read, but it is utterly satisfying.
I seriously can’t wait to dive into the rest of these books.
Who knows, maybe by the time I re-read the last of them, there will finally be a new release date set for the final book in the series.
It’s only 17 years past due.
❝I don't know the right way to say it.
"I know how this sounds, but ...
Poppy, I'm a vampire.❞I rarely read any vampire books now because they all pretty much suck.
this is my second go into a vampire series, and so far it ain't bad 💁🏻not brilliant but intriguing enough to keep you going, with its mix of ambient mystery and G-rated romance.
you'd imagine right, because they're
vampires
I do want to learn about the other creatures, so I'm hoping maybe in the next books.
I'm kind of intrigued about Ash.
There's something incredibly beautiful about L.
J. Smith's writing.
It's unlike any of the modern YA books I have read--probably because this book was written before I was born--but Smith has this way of captivating you with the simplicity of her narration, interesting though not necessarily unique plot, and well-developed characters you cannot help but want to have more of.
Secret Vampire was a short yet sweet story, and I loved the relationship between the characters, and the workings of the magic system and the Night World, which we will no doubt get to see more of in the later books.
I kindof re read this book and I am feeling really nostalgic about it.
This was my first of the Night world series.And so it holds a dear place in my heart.
This was the book that led me into the NIGHT WORLD, The world that I thrive to live in.
Yes my fav L J Smith series is the Night World, and it means everything to me.
It is a part of who I am.A world full of soulmates searching for each other and learning that above all LOVE is all that matters, This is also my best Fantasy read ever too.LOVE IT TILL THE END.
I went into this wanting a fun easy read and was instantly sucked in. I have daughters of darkness lined up and ready to go. I could not put this down at all. Im away this week but once im back ill be doing a video review.Poppy is sick and it is not looking good she can change or die. Her best friend can offer her the choice of death death or death which will she choose?
خیلی خیلی داستان جذابی بود من واقعا عاشق این کتابم.مخصوصا عاشق اون شخصیتش جیمز هستم.وااااقعا جذابه
Buddy read with Laura, i hope you like it more than I did.This book was a total let down, the only thing I like about it is that it's fast paced. The plot is way to shallow with very little world building. The characters are boring and annoying, the main character is sooooo annoying like grow up already.For a PNR, The love is almost non existent and not much is said about the vampire world, they kissed just once in the whole book 😞😞, like seriously.
The characters in this story are not entirely captivating, but I was interested enough in the storyline and plot to plow through and see where it took me.My favorite character in this book is Phil because I like his reaction to the situations he faces and his protective stance over his twin sister Poppy.
Diagnosed with a incurable cancer, Poppy now has less than the summer left to live.
The Night World is a secret society of vampires, witches, shifters and, werewolves.They only have two laws: 1)Never let humans know it exists, 2)Never fall in love with one.
James is a vampire, but in order to save Poppy he must break the Night World law, which could kill them both forever.
When I first read Secret Vampire I was hooked.
I felt time moved slow throughout the book until you came to the end where it went way to fast.
I gave up on "Teen Vampire" books back when I still was a teenager...
However, this book had been sitting on my shelf for years and I thought I would give it a chance.It was actually really entertaining.
There is no insta-love, no air-headed heroine getting herself into trouble, and no overly brooding teenagers.
For example, "Lamia" which are vampires who are born and actually age like humans, but still require blood to live and can stop aging if they choose.This book follows Poppy, an optimistic young girl who finds out she has a deadly form of cancer.
This was the first vampire book I read.
At that time, i usually read the the likes of John Grisham, Sidney Sheldon and Robert Ludlum.
I borrowed A TIME TO KILL to a class mates and she gave this book in exchange.
I liked books with conspiracies and lots of action, a book about a vampire?
Everyone knows vampires don't exist.
I always thought such books were targeted for kids but boy was I wrong!
This book however opened me up to a whole different genre of books.
Now 24, I occasionally treat myself to a good old YA paranormal book.
Re-read this book after quite some time. Absolutely love this series!
4 starsPicked this up after it was recommended to me by my friend and I must say, Night World was pretty fun. It was fast-paced and easy to read. After reading this, I do have to admit that it has whetted my appetite to read the rest of the (incomplete) series.
But I don’t know why I was hesitant to read it, as I love The Vampire Diaries books and Night World follows a very similar style of writing and interpersonal relationships between characters.
I could see my 16 year old self in Poppy and that was very nice, haha!Now, the boys.
Well, one of my current reads, haha!Bonus point: besides the boys, that are hotness all over in the book, I thought that Smith’s way of portraying cancer was awesome.
I loved reading and reviewing this book, haha!
Occasionally, she was also ruled by her brother, Phil, and manipulated by James's cousin and the love of my life, Ash. Either way, the men in Poppy's life seemed to be the ones who made the decisions for her, had to go and save her, and do, well, everything, for her.
His love towards Poppy is apparent throughout the story, even if he doesn't ever really outright state them.
-Phil North: I enjoyed his character, even though I don't usually get along with straight-laced people like him.
The concept of the Night World is an interesting premise, but the threat behind the worldwide secret society really isn't felt, though it is mentioned plenty of times.
It wasn't even, "Convince your parents she didn't want to be embalmed," or, "I'll come over and hypnotize people so it doesn't happen," (which is what he did, in the end), but no, it was expected that the teenage brother could handle it, realism be hanged.And yes, I am mentioning realism in a story about a secret society of vampires, witches, and werewolves.
Rozhodla jsem se, si knihu tedy přečíst a zjistit, jestli je doopravdy tak dobrá, jak většina tvrdí.Hlavní hrdinkou příběhu je šestnáctiletá studentka Poppy, která se dozví, že ji do konce života zbývá pouhých pár týdnů.
S její brzkou smrtí se ale nemůže vyrovnat její dlouholetý přítel a sukničkář James, který není doopravdy člověk, je totiž upír.Já umírám a můj nejlepší přítel je monstrum, které pije krev, pomyslela si.Poppy leží v nemocnici, kam byla odvezena na vyšetření.
Sice je to docela krutá daň za dlouhý život, ale Poppy moc na výběr neměla, stejně by totiž jednou umřela a rodiče opustila.Líbil se mi i James, její nejlepší kamarád.
Ce n'est peut-être pas le meilleur roman que j'aie lu, mais il a au moins le mérite de m'avoir captivé le temps d'une soirée.Dès la première phrase de ce roman, on apprend que Poppy va mourir.
Mais c'est sans compter sur James, sont meilleur ami de toujours pour qui Poppy a des sentiments plus fort que de la simple amitié.
Lorsque James apprend la terrible nouvelle, il décide de transgresser les règles et de révéler son terrible secret à Poppy, pour qui il a aussi des sentiments.
On ne fait que les survoler sans en révéler plus.
O Vampiro Secreto, o primeiro volume da série Mundo da Noite, conta a história de Poppy quando lhe é diagnosticado cancro do pâncreas em estado terminal e o seu melhor amigo e apaixonado James, destroçado perante tal acontecimento concede-lhe a possibilidade de viver para sempre transformando-a em vampira.
E quando a protagonista bebe do sangue de James, acabei por arrepiar-me.Achei que faltou muito desenvolvimento sobre o próprio Mundo da Noite e pensava que a história da Poppy e do James iria continuar no próximo livro.
Não é que para meu espanto soube que o próximo livro da série trará uma nova personagem e uma nova história!
