https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38736.James_Herriot_s_Dog_Stories
This is the first somewhat extracurricular book I have read in a long time.
It is, however, also the most touching book.
I have a dog, so I can easily connect with Herriot's passion for the animal.
While the book is a bit thick, every minute of reading it is enjoyable.
As a writer, Herriot showed me that sometimes it is not so important playing on the emotions of your readers as it is to simply tell your story.
The collection of stories in Herriot's book does the job of getting the reader emotionally involved.
A truly fantastic book about a fascinating animal.
1) Magnus the difficult.2) Mrs. Donovan’s beautiful Golden Retriever Roy.
“It’s those wonderful condition powders.”3 & 4) Skipper & Jingo II.[image error][image error][image error][image error]More than fifty enchanting stories of every type of dog – from pure breeds to mutts – told by the famous Yorkshire vet.
I just love the wise and wonderful ♥James Herriot♥.
He knows and loves animals and how to tell their heartwarming stories.
Special Note: Some of the stories that appear in the volume are reprinted from JH’s All Creatures Great and Small series.Tip, the sheepdog who slept in the snow.[image error]
While these stories can mostly be found in other Herriot works...they are wonderful.
I love the James Herriot (James Wight) books and hold them in a special place in my heart.
I can't recommend them highly enough nor say how much joy they gave me upon first reading them and that they are still capable of giving.While I love the first 2 in the "semi-biographic" group the most (and rated them 5 stars) his other works are just as worth reading.
Still, I heartily recommend the works of James Herriot.
Saya bukan pecinta binatang, tapi menyukai cerita yang memperlihatkan sisi psikologis makhluk dan hubungan antar makhluk, termasuk manusia dan binatang. Dua hal ini yang sangat menonjol dari bku James Herriot dan saya suka sekali. Walaupun mungkin 'rasa'nya gak semeriah Segala Makhluk Besar dan Kecil ---mungkin karena Farnon dan Tristan tidak banyak muncul--- tapi James tetap bisa menuturkan cerita dengan bersahabat dan tak jarang saya jadi ikut merasakan apa yang dialami JH.
It was almost like a zen exercise to sit in the quiet with a cuppa, dog at my feet and read a story or two before bed or early in the morning.
“Medical Care” is now a contradiction in words.I also envy his environment, one long gone I’m sure, the Yorkshire Downs.
If I’d not worked on a farm in my youth, I would have no idea what the luxury of parking the car and taking a short walk about the “fells”, breathing in the green and soaking in the quiet might be like.
I have read all of these stories, but a re-read was a delight.
I hadn't read these since I was in my teens.
I was kind of surprised to see more depth in the stories, reading James Herriot as a man not just as a vet, reading about the vet and not just the animals.
I was pretty focused on animals when I was younger and I think I missed a lot about the author himself.
This time I enjoyed the stories even more.
To feel happy, to laugh, to cry, to feel all the joy and absurdity of life, read James Herriot.
I received this book as a gift years ago because my family knows how much I love dogs. They were encouraging my childhood fantasy of becoming a veterinarian.Although that never actually panned out, I gained so much respect for James Herriot and an even greater love for dogs due - in large part - to this book.
As Byron said of his beloved Boatswain, dogs possess "...all the virtues of Man without his Vices." Well this is meant to be an ode to Herriot's Dog Stories, not just dogs per se, but I do believe part of loving this book is being quite particular to canine company.
On my darker days, I try to remember the Mrs. Donovans of this world and I am grateful to James Herriot for documenting the existence of such extraordinarily ordinary and beautiful characters, human and canine.
Alhamdulillah akhirnya selesai juga baca buku ini.
Sebenarnya dari awal baca ingin selesai dalam sekali duduk tapi masalahnya aku ketiduran karena kelelahan (bukan karena bukunya membosankan), saat ingin hendak lanjut lagi pekerjaan di kantor sedang banyak.
Sebenarnya bisa baca saat weekend tapi dua minggu terakhir,aku menghabiskan weekend di karawang dan aku tahu aku akan dimarahi umi jika membawa buku pulang ke Karawang.
Aku yang sebelumnya sama sekali tidak tertarik dengan profesi dokter hewan berhasil dibuat merasa bahwa dokter hewan adalah profesi yang menarik dan menyenangkan.
Ada banyak pelajaran hidup yang aku dapatkan dari membaca kisah-kisah dalm buku ini.
I love every anecdote that James Herriot ever had published - and since dogs are my favourite animals, this is one of my all time favourite books.James Herriot nobly devoted his life to relieving animals from pain - and he and his fellow vets adopted so many strays that visitors to their house were greeted each time by a gloriously happy stampede of pooches.His sense of humour was exquisite, as was his perception of people and animals. Stories about his courtship were particularly hilarious - and this wonderful author inspired me as a young woman to become a writer.
Pecinta binatang? Buku ini saya rekomendasikan sebagai bacaan wajib Anda. Anjing bisa memahami perasaan manusia. James Herriot adalah seorang dokter hewan di era 30-an di Yorshire, Inggris Utara. Pengalamannya sebagai dokter hewan kemudian dituangkan dalam bentuk tulisan. Kisah-kisah inspiratif bagi pecinta binatang. Mengingatkan kita bahwa ikatan emosional yang tercipta antara hewan dengan manusia tidak bisa dianggap remeh temeh. Bagi yang sudah menamatkan buku ini hingga akhir, bisa jadi tambah menyayangi hewan peliharaannya dirumah.

This book was put together in 1986 from stories originally published from the 1970's onward. They are cute stories, but dated.
I love anything penned by James Herriot.
But time and again, I would love to come back and rediscover the fun, the anecdotes, the pathos and the conscientious effort of a country vet to cure every living thing around him.
Well I don't know what attracts animals to me or vice-versa.
I know for certain that I am attuned to nature and try to make friends with any creature.
This book has re-affirmed it and I am happy that I am able to love and help "all creatures great and small, since the Lord God made them all"...
James Herriot ini memang jago sekali mendongeng. bahasanya menyenangkan, dan walaupun kadang menjabarkan keberhasilannya menyembuhkan hewan tapi ga terasa seperti orang yg sombong.pengen deh ada filmnya, tapi pasti ribet dengan segala tingkah laku hewan yg ada. kalau ada filmnya, maunya Martin Freeman yg jadi Mr. Herriot. :D
Heart warming stories. I have always enjoyed James Herriot's book about his lifelong vocation.
I love dogs it was good.
If you are a fan of animal stories you really need to read a few James Herriot stories.
Tristan is a great name and you couldn’t beat a story with Tristan starring in it as a mischievous and entertaining character.This small book titled Dog Stories focuses only on the canine tales and pets Herriot had pleasure to enjoy.
His other books feature all manner of livestock, dogs, cats and birds.
It was enjoyable reading this book as it was the other categories in this challenge.
This book is the first of James Herriot's books that I have read.
I like James Herriot's style of writing.
This book is all short dog stories, (which I imagine are taken in part from his other books but I’m not sure) and I enjoyed them all.
Of course, I’m sure it helps that I am an avid dog lover and I sit and think about my own beautiful dog while I read.
Herriot certainly loves animals; it shines through his stories.
It really shows you how far society has progressed medically, and it’s very inspiring, thinking about where we will go from here.
Despite the inevitable deaths, to me, it sounds like Herriot had the ultimate career and a life blessed with love and humor.
"Tricki Woo" and his owner, Mrs. Pumphrey, never fail to make me laugh.
The airs Mrs. P puts on and the personality traits she gives her dog are hilarious.
"Roddy Travers & Jake" is one that also stood out for me.
Roddy seemed, to me, to have the perfect, stress free life.
Other favorites were "Mrs. Donovan" and, of course, the hilarious and miraculous "Sexual Harassment".I can't imagine a life without dogs!
If you knew my dog, Gracie, you would know why people grow up to be veterinarians. Herriot certainly has an appealing way with animals. He holds them close to his heart. I read a chapter from this book to 4th graders. It was too hard for them, and the lesson totally bombed, but I still loved reading that book to those kids because it made me feel loving, too. This book has that kind of affect.
The perfect read-aloud for a trip from Montana to Alaska. And, since we just re-read it, a perfect read-aloud for a road trip around the UK! So fun to pull into a bed and breakfast and mention the story I had just read about a terrier to the proprietor of the lodging. He said that he had grown up in Yorkshire and one of his earlier memories was having the family car pulled from a bog by James Herriot himself.
My dad recommended this book, and I'm so glad I read it. It consists of many short stories written by a country veterinarian, who travels throughout his district in rural England taking care of various animals. His favorites are dogs, and that's what this book is about. Highly recommended for any animal lover!
A vet during the 1930s-70s is viewing all the cases he has had with dogs. There is about 50 stories. Some stories are funny but some are full of despair. I recommend this to dog lovers and people who want to be vets. As I was reading it I learnt a few things about dog diseases and how to diagnose them. The genre is comedy, despair and real life.
adorably cute
What a great read! A bunch (50!) of old stories that made me happy and sad and happy again. James Herriot was a great writer and clearly... an amazing vet!
This is the wrong edition. I had these on CD & we listened to them in the car a couple of times during long trips. Even though we remembered most of these from the books, they were still great.
Love love loved this book. Sincerely heartwarming and Herriot's writing style is just wonderful.
First of all, I have to admit that I love stories and books about dogs.
Wolf and the end of the future by Kt Adams ( Its narrator is a dog and the way he comments on the actions of his humans is absolutely great)2.
Lost behind the German Wall by Kt Adams ( it's not a book about dogs, but one of the two narrators is a dog and I like the way in which half of the book is seen through the eyes of a dog)
I enjoyed the book.
It's 50 dog stories by a vet in england, mostly about treating dogs for various ailments, and how each dog has a different personality.
There is no plot and only a little suspense.Each dog of course has a seperate owner and so getting to know the dog lets you get to know the owner too, and sometimes the owner is more interesting than the dog.
None of the stories are very long and there is little benefit in reading them in order, except for the slow moving romance between the vet and his future wife.
