https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8857.Death_of_a_Gossip
The difference between Death Of A Gossip and the first Agatha Raisin book is that the former doesn't concentrate on the main character's details.
That only helped to improve on what was a nice murder case.
The gathering of suspects in a library was something of a throwback to Christie books.
He is the most alive detective I've come across since Sleeping Murder's Jane Marple.
The book gave me control of my thoughts.
I was very surprised by the quality of this book.
And it seems, and I hope, that I have a lot of good things to discover of the Hamish Macbeth series.
His portrayal of the low-key Scottish police constable made Carlisle, and the show, instant personal favorites.I have always wanted to read the book series by M.C. Beaton.
Before long, after being zinged by her personal comments and veiled threats, the entire group hates Lady Jane.
And is Hamish MacBeth more than the small village bumbling constable that Blair assumes he is?Death of a Gossip is a quick read, but delightfully written.
Overall, just a fun read!The Hamish MacBeth Mysteries series has 31 books.
I bought several at a used book sale a couple years ago and put them on the shelf, but never had time to read them.
These books are set in the Highland area of Scotland, and I prefer to read them in audio rather than with text for that reason.
For those of us who use computerized speech to read text, it Mangels a lot of the names, places, and idioms used in the books.
I have read about half of the series with text and the other half with speech.
This is one series where reading the first couple of books is important because later plots build on things you learn in the first two or three books.
Book BlurbScottish highland village cop Hamish Macbeth must find which target was provoked enough to strangle and drown nasty fat widowed tabloid reporter Jane Winters, who revealed many others' guilty secrets.
Much is from the viewpoint of a naive secretary seduced by a blue-blood playboy.
Icy blond beauty, aristocratic Priscilla Halburton-Smythe, lends a hand.CommentsIt's not the most exciting, riveting, murder mystery I have ever read, but good enough to spend a few hours with all the characters and constable Hamish MacBeth in the Scottish landscape.
As a first book in the series, I might consider reading some of the others, although there are 32 in the series!
Question for Beaton/Hamish Macbeth fans: Are they all like this?I like a good murder mystery/detective story, and with the Hamish Macbeth series at 32 books and still going strong, I thought this might be my next favorite series to launch myself into.
So I started at the beginning and gave Death of a Gossip a go.
It's a little bit romance, a little bit mystery, and a little bit comedy.
The romance is trite, the mystery is all right, and the comedy oh so light.Some of the characters are only just sketched out and some come off like stereotyped caricatures.
A cozy mystery set in a small Scottish town around a fly fishing class. Just the setting is enough to recommend it, but the characters were also a lot of fun. Some were over done, but I really liked Hamish. He's still a bit of a mystery. I was disappointed that the murder mystery wasn't solvable by the reader & relied on a confession at the end, though. Still, it was a fun, quick read. I may go on to read some more, but I'm not in a rush.
No one could be more surprised than I, to dislike a novel I looked forward to.
I landed up with a few first editions!Marion wanted to portray a peaceful, idle policeman, so his input would make shockwaves.
I found the girl ‘looking for love’, stupidest of all.The scenery was beautiful and people who like fishing would savour the details.
However this is a series that wanted to be categorized with mysteries but it took 100 pages to get anywhere near one.
I think Marion wanted to write slapstick humour and that’s perfectly valid.
It’s regrettable there was nothing for me to latch onto among these pages.
The female characters were all drawn from the worst stereo types.
Not for readers who like their reads fast-paced and action-filled, but it's perfect if you want a relaxing few hours.I absolutely adore Hamish.
We're also introduced to Priscilla, his love interest, but I'm not sure I liked what little I saw.It's really a pity that much of the book is told from the point of view of Alice, an insipid, self-absorbed and completely delusional accountant's secretary who fancied one of her fellow travellers to be interested in her when he clearly isn't.
I'm not sure I'd have liked it half as much if it wasn't for him.
Death of a Gossip is the first book in the Hamish Macbeth series by M.
Constable Hamish Macbeth was a laid-back village police officer who enjoyed the peace of Locdubh.
However, Constable Hamish Macbeth peace was interrupted when Lady Jane Winters body founded in the Lake.
Constable Hamish Macbeth had to think was the death of Lady Jane Winters murder or suicide.
The readers will continue to follow Constable Hamish Macbeth investigation to find out what happened to Lady Jane Winters.Death of a Gossip is a lovely cozy mysteries and the first book I have read of M.
The beginning of a wonderful series. I'm in love with Hamish Macbeth (I didn't start with #1 but it was fun to go back to the beginning).
The mystery was lame and the characters all acted in ways that seemed totally unrealistic. I am a little surprised I made it all the way through this one because it took forever for the story to get started what with having to have each and every character mutter threats under their breath that seemed to be totally out of proportion to the situation. It is hard to believe this is the same author as the Agatha Raisin series.
Ok...so these books are available on Hoopla as audiobooks. I've listened to probably 18 of them while cleaning this year. They are cozy mysteries. Perfect for mindless work. I like the setting. I like the recurring characters. This isn't great literature but it's free, pretty wholesome, and a nice companion for cleaning house. They are short books as well.
A cozy little murder mystery novel which launches the Hamish Macbeth series.I’d heard of the character before, but this was my first introduction.Set in the Scottish Highlands, busy-body Lady Jane Winters is found murdered and there’s lots of suspects!It’s a fun easy read, the dialogue amongst the characters are vividly brought to life.With a short page count, it’s easy to breeze through. The mystery itself isn’t going to tax any reader. But with some wonderfully eccentric characters, you’re happy to spend time in their company.Constable Mcbeath is so likeable, I’ll be returning to this series regularly.
Poorly written and badly plotted. It is amazing the author got a chance to write more in this series. This book clunks along like an old jalopy with a flat tire.
Definitiv eine Reihe, die ich weiter verfolgen werde :) Hamish Macbeth könnte Hercule Poirots träger Zwilling sein. Und Priscilla und Hamish werden von mir geshipt!
When will it finally dawn on these amateurs and posers that making the bad guy a sociopath is, in 9 of 10 cases, only a sign of bad writing and a lazy author?Honestly, this is worse than The Cuckoo's Calling.The characters: Puppets.
Unrealistic paper puppets, designed to keep an unrealistic plot going by hinting at oh-so-horrible-secrets, when actually no one makes sense, at all.Alice: Dear pasta, I just wanted to chop off her head.
Most of my newborn hate for M.C. Beaton can be boiled down to this one so-called character: I felt like I was being tortured every time I read a sentence in her point of view.
A nasty old fat tabloid reporter reveals others' guilty secrets.
Which victim was provoked enough to strangle and drown her?
I remembered who and why, but not the reveal, and savor re-reading descriptions.
Much is from the viewpoint of the naive secretary seduced by the blue-blood playboy, rather than hero, Scottish highland cop Hamish Macbeth.
Outwardly slow simple, inwardly clever cunning, generous Macbeth also poaches, insults, and hides under his beloved's covers.
The series are holidays for me, inspired by author's own visits, quick reads full of action, mystery https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..., and lively eccentrics https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..., like Chesney-Beaton's previous so-called romances https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....
I was really looking forward to this one. Sadly, it's been a disappointment.The characters, with the exception of Macbeth, are awful people with the women being the absolute worst stereotypes imaginable. The misogyny just went on and on and ruined the pleasure of the mystery. I have the next one in this series but I don't know if I'll bother reading it.
This is a refreshingly simple, direct murder mystery in an interesting setting with some eccentric characters.
He is an appealing character who will continue as a protagonist in many subsequent Beaton murder mysteries.The plot could be more complex.
The highlander small town constable, Hamish Macbeth, was developed enough to arouse my interest in other novels featuring him so I will explore some more Hamish Macbeth Murder Mysteries as they are called.I read this book because one of my favorite writers, Jack Vance, in his autobiography, indicated that M.C. Beaton was his favorite author.
I started with the Hamish Macbeth television show and enjoyed it immensely.
I couldn't find the first two books of the series, so I started with #18, #19, and #20.
(I knew that would eventually happen because I like to browse used book stores and yard sales, etc.) But I'm glad I started with #18, as this first one is on the weak side as far as plot and characterizations.
I don't know if Beaton had written earlier books, but this does feel like a debut.
And I'm glad it was published, as Beaton's later Macbeths are better.
On a fishing tour in Scotland, a nasty gossip winds up dead. On the principle that it'll be less work to solve the case than wait for someone else to do it, local police officer Hamish Macbeth fashes himself to find out who dunnit.An easy, low-key read celebrating human foibles.
Cute story by one of my fav authors. Hamish Macbeth is a simple policeman in a simple Scottish village. He reads people while quietly finding the answers. He isn't overly handsome but is unassuming and pleasant.
I couldn't get past how stupid the main character was.
Her scathing comments prompt many of the group members to wish her ill will, and local constable Hamish Macbeth isn’t surprised when she turns up dead.
But when detectives arrive to take over the case and try to push the young copper’s nose out, Hamish decides to carry out his own investigation…Marion McChesney had already penned dozens of romantic novels by the time she turned her talents to creating the Hamish McBeth series.
The book fits well in the ‘cosy’ theme often associated with this type of writing, so will have wide appeal, and given that the author has topped twenty million sales worldwide, I don’t think she has anything to worry about.
The first Hamish Macbeth mystery and a fun read. A disparate group of people come to the Highlands for a fishing holiday; one woman is nasty, brutish, and mean to everyone and (shockingly) she winds up dead. No one cries. Hamish Macbeth solves the mystery, despite being dismissed as a rural, not-too-bright constable. Key structural elements and plotting show Christie’s influence on M.C. Beaton, and overall, it’s an entertaining weekend read. I’ll definitely look for more in this series.
The first in the Hamish Macbeth series. It’s been ages since I read them and it didn’t disappoint. M. C. Beaton ranks up there in my opinion with Agatha Christie. Her humour, her characters and storyline are always a delight to read or in this case listen to. To top it off what better place setting than the Scotland highlands. Perfectly charming in every way.
I wanted to try out this series because I knew they had a large fan base, but I just didn't like the writing style. I didn't particularly like the MC Hamish Macbeth either.
Why have I never read any Hamish Macbeth books?
Having just finished the first book in the series, I feel like I could dive into the series and read them all one right after the other.
Because of seeing the TV show first, I had a hard time picturing Hamish Macbeth with red hair and his dog as a "large slavering guard dog of indeterminate breed." But the differences between the TV show and the book didn't diminish my enjoyment of either.
After finishing the book, I felt like I'd taken a quick trip to the Scottish Highlands!
Read again 09/29/16 for Maze mystery book club.
I think I like him as a character.I thought there was little exposition of clues that would help the reader solve the puzzle (often called "playing fair") and while there usually is an antagonistic relationship between the series detective and the "regular police" (even though Macbeth is a constable), the relationship with the CID Inspector was even ruder and more dismissive than usual.This is the first book in the series.
Unfortunately for me the language and sex came off as just stuff she added on to an otherwise interesting mystery.
