https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1384389.Music_In_The_Hills
These books are comfort books for me.
The author creates a quiet world in which small things happen, but they happen to lovely characters about whom I care deeply.
In this world, small events have a big impact.
These books are a bit old-fashioned in the way they see the relationships between men and women, but it reflects the time during which they were written, and I take it in stride.
It is lovely to know her books are being re-issued, and I have many left to read.
It is an abundance of comfort awaiting me.
4.5 stars
D.E. Stevenson is such a good writer.Unfortunately I guess I can understand why she's not more popular today--her style doesn't necessarily have a lot of zip.
There are plenty of well-written characters.James, who is somewhere in his 20's, has come to live with his uncle and aunt and learn the business of farming.
Oh, well, I guess that means that for a while to come I can enjoy a slow trickle of new and enjoyable books, since it will take me a while to accumulate more.
3 1/2 starsI like borrowing a free Kindle book once a month (I'm a mooch at my core), but life is too short to scroll through all those titles which don't interest me.
But one of my friends mentioned getting D.E. Stevenson's books on Kindle Prime so I checked one out.This is comfort reading through and through, along the lines of O.
So the synchronicity of reading this simple sentence at this moment of my life was sweet."Daniel was sitting at a table studying a book about the anatomy of sheep." (smile)New words: pawky (showing a sly sense of humor) and thole (endure without complaint)Fun quote: It was pleasant to feel free.
I read this on the heels of book one (Vittoria Cottage) and I'm so glad I did. It was wonderful reading a story in which you knew the back story of the characters. Stevenson's writing is lovely. Mureth Farm is enchanting. I loved young James and his kindly ways. A lovely book!
A quiet and beautiful read-I really enjoyed this story!
As usual, I thoroughly enjoyed Ms. Stevenson's style of writing. However, I had a couple of bones of contention:1. Did anyone else want to slap James upside his head? Firstly, because of his petulent attitude towards his mother's remarriage, and secondly, because of his complete lack of constancy toward the woman he loved. I just couldn't view him with a very sympathetic eye.2. I'm not a fan of such an abrupt ending.
These abrupt endings are a bit frustrating! First Vittoria Cottage and now this one. This second book in the Dering family trilogy focuses on Caroline's son, James. Caroline herself is hardly mentioned which was frustrating as I wanted more about her and what happened after Vittoria Cottage's abrupt ending. Instead I just get another abrupt ending involving different characters.
Basically, you spend the entire book waiting for something to happen. Then it ends. Stevenson is the worst at endings. The WORST. Luckily I read the last book in this trilogy first, or I would have given up on it.
Re-read as audiobook.
You can read Vittoria Cottage to get a beter understanding of this story but as the author stated before starting the story, it is not necessary but I am glad I did.
Each story is quite enjoyable following the family of Caroline Derek.
In this story focus is on her sister and her husband's farm, which is colorful with the area and the people.
Caroline's son James is the focus here.
You find out about some other characters they were in the first book but the focus is this Scottish farming town.
Love this series and looking to read the 3 and last book of this series.
A delightful reread. The only flaw with this book is Rhoda's certainty that she has to choose between being an artist and becoming James' wife. I understand she is a product of her era but 1) she is portrayed as being modern, and 2) being an artist is far more compatible with marriage than most careers and she will have plenty of domestic support. Not to mention, I recall her painting away in the third book of this trilogy.
I got a little bit bogged down in the domesticity of this little novel for a while, but things brightened up a bit towards the middle. It is, after all, comfort reading, so one can't expect many twists and surprises, but the writing is excellent, as usual, even if it is one of D E Stevenson's lesser works.
Another lovely read. Not much is happening, but reading D.E. Stevenson is always a pleasure. On to "Shoulder The Skies"
An old fashioned comfort read with a Scottish setting. https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/1...
The sequel to Vittoria Cottage focuses on James, who has taken up his Uncle Jock's offer to learn how to run his farm nestled in the picturesque Scottish countryside.
Pining after the beauteous Rhoda, the golden-haired girl of his dreams who turned down his offer of proposal because she is dedicated to painting, James devotes himself to learning how to become the best farmer he can be.
This is DE Stevenson at her best.Her characters, from minor to main, are drawn out into fully-developed people with likable nuances that make them practically walk off the page.
Of course I've read this many times before, probably 40 or more years ago, and I own a print version (US book club edition) as well. But the story of James and Daniel and the sheep-stealers never seems to pall. And the aristo who is so busy taking care of others' children that she neglects her own is also a good theme!
If you like D. E. Stevenson's books, then you will like this one. It takes place on a farm in Scotland. You will get caught up in her descriptions of the Scottish countryside and her characters. I suppose these days you would call this a 'cozy' read.
I liked the first one better (Vittoria's Cottage), but this book was good, too. I'm looking forward to reading the third (Shoulder the Sky). This is a sweet, bucolic book set in the Scottish countryside during WWII.
4.5/5Lovely book of course. But what is WITH the author continuously cutting off the MOST IMPORTANT PART of an ending? DAMN AND BLAST.I WANTED TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENED NEEEEXT.
I ❤ DE Stevenson!
I ❤️ DE Stevenson!
It's the story of the love Mamie and Jock Johnstone have for each other, the deep, trusting love of a happily married couple, and of the love they feel for their farm and their chosen way of live.
But it's the story, too, of the more troubled hearts of the younger generation."James Dering, the Johnstones' nephew, has come to live with them and learn farming.
Holly Douglas, Lady Steele's pretty, gay niece, tries her best to help James forget Rhoda, and Eleanor, Lady Steele's romantic, impetuous young daughter, complicates his life still further.
Fortunately his mother's sister Mamie is married to a sheep farmer in Scotland.
They invite James to come for an extended visit and see whether farming might suit him.
Unfortunately, the woman he loves is a very talented professional artist, a painter who does not believe she can reconcile the demands of art and marriage, especially if she is living in Scotland far from the art scene in London.
When James meets Holly, niece of a prominent local family, he begins to believe that love and marriage and farming will become his dream come true.On to Shoulder the Sky to follow the story to its conclusion.
James Dering arrives in Drumburly to learn farming at his uncle's Scottish farm, after being released from the army. He tries to leave behind some unsettling memories. His mother has remarried (Vittoria Cottage), his one love will not marry him and he feels like an orphan. His gentle aunt and her loving husband, Jock Johnstone, help James adjust to the life of a lonely sheep farmer. James attempts to solve a sheep rustling mystery.Another favorite story. I love the sequel 'Shoulder the Sky' as well.connected to: Vittoria Cottage (the 1st story with James); Shoulder the Sky (the sequel; Bel Lamington
James Dering (whose family you may have met in Stevenson's "Vittoria Cottage") goes to stay with his Aunt Mamie and Uncle Jock, not knowing that the childless couple plan to will him their estate if he turns out to enjoy the farming life. James takes to farming, though he's also rather taken by some of the feminine company in the area--but not enough to forget the rejection of his marriage proposal by Rhoda Ware. His chaste relationship with a lonely, neglected teen-ager may seem a bit more creepy now than it did in 1950.
This is the second of a new series of books I am reading by an author I have just discovered, D.E. Stevenson (who just happens to be the cousin of Robert Louis Stevenson). The setting is the bucolic Scottish countryside and the characters are loving, kind and decent with just a bit of drama thrown in! A very warm and comfortable read, which is a nice escape from the realities of our stressful world.
Stevenson is such a pleasant read with her very simple style, which makes the book almost feels like it was written for children. There are some really lovely moments in it and a sense of depth that goes beyond the easy reading surface. In this one, unfortunately, there are also moments of casual racism/antisemitism that come up like a slap in the face and that drives me down into the three star zone and also makes less fond of Stevenson overall. I almost wish I hadn't read it.
Two and a half stars. I enjoyed the Miss Buncle series, and I enjoyed the first book in this series, "Vittoria Cottage", but this was not on the same level. I kept reading only to find out what happened to the various characters. The writing is lovely and gentle, as in all of the D. E. Stevenson books, but I just didn't like some of the plot lines.
Nice family, nice setting. James, rejected by the girl he loves, goes to join his uncle Jock Johnstone and learn to be a farmer. There is a designing girl from a gentleman's family, a mystery regarding sheep rustlers, and a rich, ignorant outsider whose hobby farm is bound to fail. And, of course, a surprising happy ending.
A general review of D.E. Stevenson. Like Miss Read, a lot of D. E. Stevenson's books are out of print. I have also tried to collect these but they are harder to come by. I especially love the Mrs. Tim series which you can no longer find. Anything about living in England during WWII is a favorite with me.
