https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68531.The_Archer_s_Tale
and due to that rapes do have to be included in the stories--and he does make it clear that the guys that do this kind of thing are terrible human beings and deserve violent death--but Cornwell is not the man for exploring shit like the effects of rape on the psyche.
It was like...Thomas is walking around burning the poor people's stuff and then there's a battle.
If he's gonna include this kind of thing, he really needs to draw more substantial female characters in his books and have them stick around.Okay, with all of that out of the way I can get to the good stuff.
FYI: The Hundred Years War went on and off from 1337 to 1453 A.D. Basically, the best way to see this, without me waxing eloquent or turning this into a term paper is: view this as a fight between two distant cousins who both had a claim to the French throne (i.e their ancestors had been married to each other at one point, thus, distant cousins).
Once again, the overall focus is on the fights and the archer's use of the war bow and the dramatic impact it had on enemy knights.
I haven't gotten deeply into any series by Mr. Cornwell since I went through a lot of the Sharpe books placed in/during the Napoleonic wars.
This book isn't for anyone with a weak constitution.
Rape, pillage, rapine, casual murder....not so casual murder...revenge, "Fencing.
Revenge.
Bad men.
Good men.
Brave men.
Cowardly men.
weak men.
Strong men.
Even Stronger men.
It's a book about war and all the pain that goes with that, especially when it's a war fought with pointy and edged things some of sharp steel either wielded by hand or attached to a yard long shaft of wood.I plan to follow this series...though I may take a break between them to recover.Recommended.
In his chosen career as a longbowman (archer) in the English army fighting in France under King Edward, he develops into a rather reclusive, distant character who quickly gains the respect of the band of archer's he travels with, by using both his well honed skill and his Oxford educated wits.
This first book of the Grail Quest series starts off with the massacre of Thomas' English village of Hookton by the equally dark, though more malevolent, 'Harlequin'.
There is also, amid Cornwell's smooth story telling, a good tale being told here and I look forward to following Thomas into Vagabond and then into Heretic as his path is changed by a promise to a father, a priest, a lord and a King.
When his village was slaughtered by French soldiers Thomas joined the English army fighting in France in the hopes of finding justice.
The middle section especially suffered from Thomas' lack of involvement with an army as he wandered around France learning about his mysterious heritage and being pressed to try and find the Holy Grail.
Cornwell's visceral' compelling account brought the famous battle to life and even knowing how it would end it was gripping reading.
However I would recommend Cornwell's The Winter King as a better example of the genre and I'll probably read more of his other books before continuing this series.
Harlequin, or The Archer's Tale, was my first B.C. read and I now understand the reverence and praise the group gives to Mr. Cornwell.
Harlequin is definitely Realistic.
If you like books about Kings and Courtiers, Belles and Balls, Romance and Chivalry this is  NOT  the book for you.
Thomas of Hookton is not a knight in shining armour determined to save a damsel in distress while upholding the tenets of chivalry.
Thomas is an Archer.
You will not love Thomas without reservation.
Unfortunately for Thomas, sometimes life happens and in  Harlequin life happens a lot.
This was a great book. It kept me turning pages throughout. It was all about the wars between the English and the French in the middle ages. It was quite a grewsome battle described in the book.This is the first of a trilogy which I recommend highly.Enjoy and Be Blessed.
It wasn’t Uhtred good, but $1.99 is definitely a deal.If you've read Cornwell's Saxon Stories then you're probably familiar with the formula.
The Archer's Tale mostly follows this formula as well.Thomas isn't Uhtred though.
Thomas just wants to shoot a bow for the English, and lead English archers into battle.
He tells this story to Father Hobbe, who acts as a sort of fatherly figure to Thomas and holds him to this promise which was made in a church.
I really wanted to love her, but couldn't in the end respect the way she treated Thomas.This book has a much slower pace then the Saxon stories.
Many battles have been fought, people slaughtered, churches robbed, souls destroyed, young women and virgins deflowered, respectable wives and widows dishonored; towns, manors and buildings burned, and robberies, cruelties and ambushes committed on the highways.This book is not for the faint of heart.
It is a look into the horrors or war and while extremely well written, it was difficult for me at times.Mainly because I couldn't find a character I liked.
Both sides committed atrocities, and yet both sides also had a few "good" people.Once the goal became clear I was able to enjoy it a little bit more, and find some characters I liked.
Probably about 1 and 1/2 stars.Writing: adequate.Characters: flat. The villains are only villains because they are villains, and because the plot requires that there be villains. Actually, almost everyone does things only because the plot requires that they do them.I shall not be reading the remaining volumes in the trilogy, or, I suspect, anything else by Bernard Cornwell.
Judging by how much I enjoyed Harlequin, it's definitely not going to be my last.Cornwell seamlessly blends historical fact and fiction and is one of the few historical fiction authors who stays as close to history as possible, but also makes these minor tweaks to it so that the story becomes, in a way, unpredictable.
Sure, a quick Wikipedia search can show you whether or not the Black Prince or any other person died at Crecy, but even if you know there's still suspense in the way Cornwell weaves his words, and his depiction of the battle at Crecy was thrilling to hear.
This was a good book just not a great one for me. Maybe it would have been great if I had read it on paper instead of listening to the audio version. Trying to squeeze reading time out of every moment possible had me listening at times that I ended up being a bit distracted (like the pre rush hour hustle and bustle on the road) which has left me missing little bits and pieces. Thomas is also no Uhtred. I'll probably continue the series eventually, but might try my hand at audiobooks on a different genre now.
Cornwell is one of the best writer's of historical fiction. If you saw Henry V and wondered what the life of average people was all about, this book is grounded in day to day life. It is also a story about the wars of the period and what we rationalize is ok to do to our "enemy". It is a good read in itself and has two other books that carry on the story.
Their most powerful weapons are archers with long bows who are called Harlequin.
Among them is Thomas of Hookton, the French troops killed his father who is the priest in village Hookton and ravaged the village.
The French have stolen relic Spear St. George that his father kept in the church.
Here Thomas kills his first enemy and decides to take revenge on the French, and returns the stolen spear.
Connects to the army as an archer and goes to war.
Thomas expects a lot of adventures and discovering secrets about his father.
Who was not be just an ordinary village priest?
This was my first foray into Bernard Cornwells novel and I can easily say it will not be my last. All the reviews that praise his historical research and subsequent translation into an entertaining story are spot on! The battle scenes were gritty, foul and horrific.....not an ounce of sugar coating to be seenRecommendation for fans of medieval fantasy but don't expect any wizard to show up and save the day :)
Os grandes arcos eram puxados repetidas vezes, e as flechas de penas brancas desciam o morro para perfurar cotas de malha e tecido e transformar o morro mais baixo num campo de morte.”O primeiro livro da trilogia Busca do Graal é bem realista, sangrento e as descrições das batalhas são tão boas que o leitor não consegue desgrudar o olho nem por um minuto.
Mas o principal diferencial nessa história é de que o personagem principal é um arqueiro, muito diferente das milhares de histórias sobre cavaleiros que podemos encontrar nos livros.Um dos pontos que devo destacar é o ótimo detalhamento das estratégias usadas em combate, muitas vezes até mesmo fazendo o leitor antever o que irá acontecer, o que pode não ser muito bom em alguns livros, mas na escrita do Cornwell ficou muito bom!
The detail he uses in describing events like the taking of Caen and the battle of Crecy prove Cornwell is a man who has done his research.
The novel is also suppose to tell the story of Thomas of Hookton and his quest to fulfill a dying wish.
Thomas' story got lost in all of the battle detail.
I especially liked the scene where Eleanor was out at Thomas' side digging pits/  (hide spoiler)]I plan on moving on to Vagabond, the next novel in the Grail series, only to see if a story comes out of it.
HARLEQUIN is the first of Bernard Cornwell's Grail Quest trilogy, and I'm only coming to it now having read most of his other work (like all the Sharpe and Uhtred books).
The first thing that becomes apparent is that this is the most formulaic of his novels, as he seems to throw in most of the plot ideas he learnt in the Sharpe books, merely supplanting them into a Middle Ages setting.There's an almost pantomime villain, inevitably fighting on the hero's own side rather than against him; some female characters who are dealt with rather shabbily; a huge, pitched battle at the end; and, of course, lots of near-death experiences.
I am constantly surprised, though I shouldn't be, at Cornwell's ability to re-create an historical era.In this story,(also titled "Harlequin" in its British Edition) the first of The three book "Grail" series, Thomas of Hookton, becomes an archer in the army of Edward the 2nd at the beginning of the Hundred Year's war between England and France (mid 14th century).
In typical Cornwell style, Thomas overcomes his low birth (he's the bastard son of a priest) and more than a few near death experiences to become a leader of the group of archers he has joined.
Abandoning this one. Too violent and bloody for me. (Rapes happen ALOT.) So many battle scenes. Just not my kind of book.
I loved that this book was so rich with history. It really brought the Battle of Crecy to life (and the other battles too, but that was the big one). The writing was good, the pacing was good, the history was excellent. I liked how the main character grew as the story went along, and the battle scenes were awesome. Probably not a book to hand to teenagers (profanity, violence, and non-detailed rape and sex), but I’m hooked enough to read the next book.
I heard Bernard Cornwell interviewed on NPR last year sometime, and he was very entertaining.
At the time, R was also complaining about how boring her European history class was, specifically, the Hundred Year's War. I thought I'd try this out to see if I could recommend it to her.
I felt that Cornwell did a good job creating distinct characters from the historical figures.
Thomas is the son of a priest, who joins the army when his village is plundered and his family is killed.
Hopefully, it will have a little more of the Cornwell's interview humor.
Excelente. As descrições de batalhas do início da guerra dos cem anos que o autor faz são sensacionais. Enredo muito bom.
Posebno je zanimljivo to što je upravo jednog engleskog strijelca Cornwell postavio u ulogu glavnog protagonista, zbog čega smo dobili priliku iz prve ruke vidjeti koju su ulogu strijelci imali u engleskoj vojsci i zbog čega su bili tako važni.Ako uživate u čitanju povijesnih romana, ova se trilogija svakako mora naći na vašoj listi za čitanje.
This is an excellent historical novel covering the period at the very beginning of the Hundred Years' War, mostly being the tale of one archer involved, ending with the Battle of Crécy.It is only the second book I’ve ever read by Cornwell, although that first definitely put him on my “favourites” list.
There were a few bizarre bits of annoying conversational repetition (someone grimaces, not because of what the other person said, but because of some stench or memory – the first time is fine, the second is frustrating, the third starts to grate severely), but I enjoyed seeing Thomas move along on his journey of self- and ancestral-discovery.A couple of slower points left me cutting short on my reading hour, but otherwise it thoroughly deserves its mid-high rating.Final rating: ★★★★☆ – Really liked
This is my first book by Bernard Cornwell, who is a rather prolific historical fiction writer across various time periods.[return][return]The Archer's Tale begins in the village of Hookton on the English coast.
His journey leads him into France at the beginning of the Hundred Year's War. He is content as an archer for the king, but slowly, more clues emerge regarding the raid on his village and the history of the stolen artifact, and they seem to lead towards the ultimate of prizes: the holy grail itself.[return][return]I love historical fiction, but I admit I had trouble getting into this book.
In fact, I haven't picked my kindle up since I started it because nothing on there seemed as important to me as finishing this book.
I have to say that I only had one problem with it and that was the fact that there were some questions that I personally had (you know, what happened to this character or that character), but since it's the first of a series, I'm sure those questions will be answered in the books that follow.I plan to continue reading his books and anyone who has never tried it - pick the book up today and check it out.
This is sort of a two and a half star book and I did not finish it.
Like Agincourt it is violent, bloody, laced with crude language.
Cornwell Bernard knows how to move a story along at a brisk airport-read pace, but there is a sameness to his characters and plots.
if a story seems to be going someplace worthwhile, but this one was just formulaic and rather crass.
I sort of appreciated Agincourt since I was interested in this pivotal battle of the Hundred Years War, but I guess if you've read one Cornwell, you've read them all.R: Gore, crude language, etc.
Great book.
Excellent historical accuracy and character development.
Loved the history and story.
Great details even down to armor and household objects.
I've never read an author who mentioned that the characters hated the rain because it made the leather hauberk feel clammy.
I loved it.
Cornwall's main characters have a way of having a revolving door of women but at least they're interesting characters.
The battles were super well written and used the historical details to paint great full landscapes and described accurate battle lines.
The carnage of the hundred years war was captured while telling an intriguing character driven story.
A stirring historical novel that follows archer Thomas of Hookton across 14th century France in a series of adventures that culminates in the bloody battle of Crecy.
The female characters were rather shallow, but that does seem realistic given their role in a period where the men hold the power and dominate the action.This was a thoroughly enjoyable read, and I would recommend it to those who enjoy fiction packed with knights, archers, sieges and battles.
I do, so I'll definitely be reading the rest of this series.
