https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11138.Mere_Christianity
Because when you do bad things you’re really trying to achieve ends which are really good, but you’re going about it the wrong way, huh?
There was a classic multiple murderer in 1972 in California called Herbert Mullin – he was a schizophrenic who was obsessed with the impending Big Earthquake and went around randomly beating 13 people to death because his brain told him THAT WAS THE WAY TO STOP THE EARTHQUAKE!
I get it, CS, he was trying to do a GOOD thing in a BAD way.
Every time the Christians play me their song they change the chords.
He takes it a bit further to explain why some point in between atheism and Christianity (including other belief systems) won’t work for those who choose to follow Christ.
Brutal honesty is as much a part of the Christian faith as the comfort is in knowing that while the walk in following Christ is a tough road, we do it not alone, but through the power of the Lord Jesus Christ, who lives in us and empowers us to follow him.This book comes highly recommended by this reader.
If you are looking for a book that will convince you to take the leap of faith and become a Christian (like so many 1-star reviewers who said they were unconvinced) then don't waste your time.
If you want this same validation, you can either talk to a Christian who knows the facts (as I did), or read something like what Lewis has presented.
2. Other cultures would stop saying ignorant things like "America (or wherever) is a Christian nation." The facts in Lewis' work speak against this.
Here's a quote from the book that's never left my head:"I am trying here to prevent anyone saying the really foolish thing that people often say about Him: 'I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I don't accept His claim to be God.' That is the one thing we must not say.
A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher.
He did not intend to." (C.S. Lewis, Mere Christianity, The MacMillan Company, 1960, pp.
He puts together the best indications he can find, but they don't add up to much.Every time Lewis embarked on a thought, it would grow and blossom in intriguing ways until he would simply bunch together the whole bundle, tie it with a bow, label it 'god's handiwork' with a reverent nod, and move on, never reaching an insight.
To portray everyone else as faulty but still think yourself infallible is not only insulting, but a black mark on any otherwise reasonable mind.I like Lewis, both his tone and his mind.
I sense Lewis also wanted to find something he could attach himself to.
Lewis talks about Christianity being a process of producing a particular kind of new man, instead of a group of people who follow a set of rules.
Interestingly enough, it is also these actions created in us by God's Spirit, saying "yes" to His prompting and the way He wants us to live, which miraculously turn us into these new sons and daughters of God. Lewis also talks about how this process is worked through us, so that we have no room to be proud or think that it's of our own doing.
I'm half way through the book, but so far I'm further convinced that Jesus is my savior and that Christianity is right for me.
I feel that my future on this path is fulfilling, and I hope that anybody who is confused about their spiritual beliefs, or anyone who wants to take a peak at Christianity and see if it is right for them, should check this book out.
People either love this book or hate it.
Without passing judgment I don't see how people can actually hate it.
From there it's a real eye opener.However, I do have to say the book is so rich with philosophy I found myself reading sentences several times over.
By the third one sometimes I found myself somewhat confused and had to read them all over again, and again, and again.Some of my favorite chapters were "Christian Marriage", where he describes what true love really is and "Is Christianity Hard or Easy?", where he puts laziness in a whole new perspective.
Yet in Mere Christianity, I found none of the superficiality I've previously experienced with other books that delve into philosophic explorations of religion.
Thank goodness my wife is a huge C.S. Lewis fan or I might not have picked it up at all.
I found that in this work C.S. Lewis single-handedly legitimizes religion as a belief, lifestyle, and philosophy.
Mere Christianity is not "merely" another book on religion or Sunday School manual; it is a call to arms for every person who picks it up, regardless of their faith.
C. S. Lewis wove doctrines and lessons regarding the Christian faith throughout his other works, notably the Chronicles of Narnia. Ergo, I was surprised when reading this novel that to learn that he used to be an atheist.  A religious book, written by an ex-atheist?   I was alight with curiosity. What caused the switch? By studying the faith (as an effort to become better at atheism) he found religion. A strange, roundabout way to go by things but nonetheless thoroughly interesting.Lewis slowly,
Lewis wove doctrines and lessons regarding the Christian faith throughout his other works, notably the Chronicles of Narnia.
From there he narrows slightly, circling closer and closer until he reaches Christian doctrine (i.e. the holy trinity).
He does not  preach only one denomination rather he expounds on core truths and beliefs of Christianity as a whole.
As admirable as this novel is, he does preach a few beliefs and interpretations were common back then but are not shared with as many nowadays.
So, taken with a grain of salt - this book does provide an fascinating look into the core beliefs of the Christian religion.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
My second non-fiction book by C.S.Lewis (1898-1963) and, although I liked A Grief Observed more, I also liked this one.This book Mere Christianity (published in 1953) was based on the transcript of the BBC radio broadcast that Lewis gave at Oxford during World War II (1941-1944).
It was a hit because at that point, Lewis had already published a number of fiction and non-fiction books including Out of the Silent Planet (1938), The Problem of Pain (1940) and The Screwtape Letter (1942).
An example of this was when he quoted phrases in his book and claimed that those are said by Jesus Christ.
As the years have rolled on though, a different society, with different needs and expectations has arisen that sees the world a little different than the British society, in the midst of all the moral and spiritual challenges that happened in the World War II years.Lewis' is more of a classic apologetic.
The strains of applying mere Christianity to sex, marriage, the life of real faith and social morality remain real and if anything the tensions have increased since the 1940's.This remains a valuable book, and one that large numbers of people have used to understand just how practical an adult and real a faith in Christ is.
For instance: After starting the journey from his original question of where the idea of "right" and "wrong" actually come from (He began this during the upheaval of WWII amid the question afforded the Allied Forces as opposed to the Nazis, which adds a unique understanding of his purpose) Lewis comes to accept that there must be an overall "good" force and "bad" force fighting for supremacy.
Of course, this simplified paraphrase does not come close to the overall thought process that Lewis employs.
This same thought process carries through with every single point encountered defining Christian teachings.
This book shed the first signs of light toward my walk with Christ.
In my opinion, C.S. Lewis is the most important religious scholar of the 20th century.When walking into the National Shrine book store, it warms my heart to see an entire section devoted to C.S. Lewis, right next to the two Catholic giants: G.K. Chesterton and Thomas Merton.As much as Evangelicals try to lay claim to Lewis and his books, Lewis was more Catholic than Evangelical.
“I am trying here to prevent anyone saying the really foolish thing that people often say about Him: I’m ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I don’t accept his claim to be God. That is the one thing we must not say.
A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher.
He would either be a lunatic — on the level with the man who says he is a poached egg — or else he would be the Devil of Hell.
You must make your choice.
Lewis himself explains that what Mere Christianity is about is more of an explanation of what all Christian denominations hold to be truth - it is not so much an argument for why these are held to be true.
They think it's about becoming 'good enough' to get into Heaven." To which my Dad turned around and agreed saying, "That is because most churches don't understand Christianity well enough and keep preaching works-based repentance." For anyone not understanding what I mean by 'works-based repentance', it should be the assertion of every believe that is is by faith that you are saved.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب یکی از آن دسته از کتابهایی میباشد که محبوبِ ترسایان یا همان مسیحیان میباشد. چراکه در این کتاب <سی، اس. لوییس> که مسیحی متعصبی نیز میباشد، همه چیز را به نوعی به مسیح مربوط دانسته است، حتی نکات اخلاقی و آدابی که از ایرانیان و نیاکانِ ما وام گرفته شده استدر این ریویو به برخی از نظراتِ <لوییس> اشاره میکنم---------------------------------------------عزیزانم، <لوييس> ميگوید شادی و خوبیِ ناب از گردن نهادن برایِ خدا و فرمانبرداری بی چون و چرا از خدا بدست مي آی
و تنها زمانی كه چنين كند، شاد و خوب است************************‎لوييس از "دگرگوني تند" حالتهایِ روانی سخن گفته و باور دينی را بر پايهٔ اين كه وابستگیِ شخص به عوامل بيرون از مهار وی، به ويژه آب و هوا و شكم...
را كاهش ميدهد، ستايش ميكند و پای خرد را در میان میکشد که از نظر طبیعت گراها و خردگرایان و اندیشمندانی همچون زنده یاد <راسل> اینکار اشتباه است، چرا که در مسائلِ مربوط به دین و مذهب، خرد جایی ندارد و انسانِ خردمند با دلاوری و توانایی بالا، خود را از بندِ موهومات رها کرده و نجات میابد و در مسائل دینی به جای خرد، احساسات و ترس از خدا بر انسان چیره میشود، پس خرد در دین و مذهب بی معنی میباشد‎در این رابطه <لوییس> مطالبی را مینویسد که اصلاً مشخص نیست سر و ته دارد یا خیر!!
I know some people still use this book as a way to explain the tenets of the Christian faith, but I think that is unwise for several reasons:-Most of the book is based on church (not Biblical) teachings, which are only really emphasized inside certain denominations.
Lewis claims to defend the main concepts, but I'm not sure what he picked is what I would have picked, having come from a different background within the same religion.-The narrow view of Christianity continues in his pronouncement that "anyone who professes to teach Christian doctrine" will tell you to use all three - baptism, belief, and "Holy Communion." In practice only belief seems to be central to all denominations.
(Some of them, which seemed to me compelling at the time, now seem too simplistic, admitting of only a few possible arguments.) Yet when I read it as a teenager, I had just read the Gospels for the first time in my life, and I had been deeply struck by Christ's words and sense of authority.
I WANTED to be a Christian at that moment in my life, and possibly I would have become one even if I had never read Mere Christianity on the heels of the Gospels.
To clarify his point he also writes, "Faith, in the sense in which I am here using the word, is the art of holding on to things your reason has once accepted." Here, Lewis seems to equate faith with reason (which is his goal in the book), but does so based on unjustified grounds.
Lewis, and other religious apologists, rely upon the assumption that simply because I have faith in something better, that that "something better" must necessarily be a reality.
This book quite literally changed my life. This is a dramatic, vivid account of a former atheist's realization that God is real and that you can know Him in a personal way. Reading this book with an open mind certainly helps to understand Lewis' perspective. It was originally given as a radio address therefore, it is relatively easy to follow. The language is a bit archaic, and some of the chapters may need to be re-read several times before finally grasping the content. It is completely worth the effort.
As solid an explanation of Christianity as I have ever encountered. Beautiful writing. Clarity of thought. Solid reasoning. The text of this book originated from a series of BBC radio lectures C.S. Lewis delivered to England while Nazi bombs rained from the sky. Set in that context, the imperative is clear. Christianity is not doled out as a panacea for every sheep in the flock. It is presented, rather, as an choice of free will, guided by grace and dedicated to justice.
C.S. Lewis is such a prolific and articulate author. I'm really enjoying his works. I'm constantly blown away by the way in which he seamlessly (with humor) explains his beliefs and thoughts. I can't wait to read more from him. I feel bless having closed 2016 year reading his works.

Great. Also read in March of 1985. Also listened to it a couple times on audio over the course of a few years, finishing the second time through in October 2011.Finished listening to it again in January 2015.
I think he was motivated to convince the masses that goodness isn't something we choose because it makes the world a better place or because our parents taught us the golden rule but rather, we choose it because God is real.
He makes the case for Christianity." But I'd have to add, "However, I think he's a little off about the Godhead." Lewis, himself, frequently cites his own reasoning as guesswork.
The amount of stars I have assigned it says enough about how well it was received.
Then he jettisons all of that rhetoric and logic, takes the tennets of Christianity as given fact, and proceeds to deliver a mind-numbingly naïve justification for the reasons behind the religion of the Nazarene.
It was terribly weak, even for its time, and offers little to nothing besides pontifications about the already mystical—without the benefit of calling it so.
Overall, worth reading just to see how little has to be offered to be heralded as powerful amongst the religious.
1 star.
(Hope I got all of that right.) Basically, I think Lewis gives a solid, accessible presentation of the argument from morality.That is probably the most apologetic part of the book and is not quite yet a case for the Christian God specifically.
I really liked his analogy of a map (Lewis has a talent for analogies), so I'm going to include the whole thing here: ”In a way I quite understand why some people are put off by Theology.
I think he had probably had a real experience of God in the desert.
That said, he shows us a great example of how to take deep theological truths and state them so almost anyone––of even average intelligence––"gets it." He certainly has his moments where those who like their theology as punctiliar as a swiss watch will wince, but he would likely wince in return at their inability to state such precise theological notions in such a way as to make them understandable.I think Lewis actually did something quite remarkable in Mere Christianity, which will be of immense profit to the church for ages to come.
The moment I finished reading Screwtape Letters, I immediately became a fan of this author that made me want to try his other works.
Surely, as a Christian, you will immediately recognize that that wisdom does not come from Lewis alone but from God, and that wisdom and understanding he shared about Christianity, is a manifestation of a good relationship with his Creator.
I think, that is what Christianity is all about - healthy personal relationship with Christ.Unlike Screwtape Letters, it took me a while to finish this book because I feel that I need to pay attention to what the author is saying.

