https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/592089.The_Bar_Code_Tattoo
It was a good easy read that fit together well, if a bit shakily, up until Kayla escapes from the hospital.
From there, it seems like either the author was working hard and fast to meet a deadline or doing everything in her power to make it under a certain number of pages, because every scene is speedy, too quick to really process.
It is like you as a reader are being shoved into this completely new environment that has barely anything to do with the chapter that came before, and there isn't enough time or detail to really understand how everything fits together.
their family died for these tattoos.The bar code tattoo talks about the new kind of identity in the United States, and also in the developed countries.
Then the president of the USA makes a law that every citizen of the USA has to get the tattoo at age 18 and so.
But when she was in line to get the tattoo she saw how the police killed a guy who had discovered some dark secrets about this tattoo; the only thing he said before he died was “don’t get a tattoo, the tattoo can control your genes.” When she saw this, her life suddenly changed.
The big let down in that is that friends from the beginning of the book reappear at 'just the right time' which took away any shred of realism-hard to come by in a YA work of fiction so I hope you understand my meaning.The writing style itself made this book difficult to read.
The author at the beginning seemed to repeat and reword sentences; almost like a school student trying to get a word count in a book report.
Normally a book like this would be a one day read-it took three days.
That might not seem like it’s very important, but the information buried in the genetic code is being used by others to favor certain individuals over others – those that have good genes are the ones who receive promotions, medical benefits, awards, opportunities, etc.
People keep saying over and over that you don’t need to worry if you have nothing to hide, but why does the government need to have access to this information, and what will they do with it?
She throws in this curveball ending where the humans who are resisting the bar code tattoos suddenly start developing psychic powers.
This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic NerdACTUAL RATING: 2.5 MY THOUGHTS I've seen this book around, but never picked it up because of the awkward cover. I saw it at a cheap book sale, though, so I figured "why not?". I probably could've done without reading this book. It wasn't horrible. It's your typical dystopian, but it was just meh overall.Everyone is getting the bar code tattoo. Everyone over the age of 17 gets one. The tattoo is becoming the new currency and it carries all
It's your typical dystopian, but it was just meh overall.Everyone is getting the bar code tattoo.
And what is in those bar codes?This book is your typical dystopian.
The book wasn't bad, but I couldn't ignore the flaws.
The characters in this book felt really flat to me, not just Kayla, everyone.
Also, the thing I like about romance in books is all the feels.
The pacing, though, was too fast and both the characters and romance were pure cardboard.
I wanted to like this book, but I couldn't ignore the flaws.
As the tattoo controls more and more of their identity, Kayla joins a small rebel group at her school, dedicated to inform the public about the consequences of getting the bar code.
While searching for the rebel group in the mountains, Kayla runs into many people, both friend and foe.I wish this book was longer.There were a lot of things I liked about this book (not only because the main character’s name was Kayla), but I had a hard time connecting to it because scenes were not fleshed out and the plot kept moving when I wanted more.
But since it has boring writing and a plot that skips weeks in one page, I did not enjoy the book.Okay, so good things first: I like the overall plot arc.
I can not deal with this book, there are way too many problems with it!
The author seems to just put one event after the other with no logical thinking.
seven days later..." within a chapter occur so often and you are left behind thinking "ahmmm...
oh my, I don't even want to start writing about that, and the relationship development was even worse.I really admire authors for their hard work and I really think books should be honored as it is so much work that goes unappreciated, however this book is one of the worst I've read so far
I'm only about 70 pages in and it seems to be a book for YA/Ad Lit readers/teachers if they are looking for utopia/dystopia readings.
Essentially, the future (about 2020/2025) has each person tatooed with a bar code.
Some believe, "if you're not doing anything wrong, why worry about it?" where others realize the danger of information that could be created and passed on within that bar-code.
An interesting read in the age of the Patriot Act and for readers who are (or will one day be) familiar with Orwell's Big Brother.
Some of the mystical stuff at the end was goofy, I thought, but still a good read.
Cute. What an adorable attempt at a dystopian novel. That's hours of my life that I'll never get back.
Een verrassend fijn boek over een verplichte tatoeage die heel de samenleving overhoop gooit. De toffe thematiek doet denken aan de wat als? scenario's uit Black Mirror en stelt de kracht van technologie aan de kaak. Het einde van het boek vond ik echter wat vaag en ik weet niet zeker of ik de reeks verder zal lezen - maar het was een heerlijk boek voor tussendoor.Lees mijn complete recensie op Oog op de Toekomst.
I had to read this for class however I credit this book to being the worst book I have ever read.
The book was written from the perspective of a self centered nitwit who is difficult to like.
It’s physically impossible for a reader to like her because she’s a flipping one dimensional character with no personality.
Also, this book is biased towards her and her friends who think that the government is evil.
AND THEN BE FORGIVEN BECAUSE “iT waS A MiStaKe” To be fair it was a mistake but the book still is not my kinda book.
It felt like a robot used a formula to write this book.
Start with HERO, add a life altering decision (LAD).
Add love interest (LI).
Introduce love triangle (LT).
LI influences HERO to make LAD in one direction.
For no particular reason LI now influences HERO to make LAD in opposite direction as before.
Randomly introduce second love triangle (2LT).
Add a surprise ending: HERO is now telepathic and lives happily in the woods with a group of other telepaths who no longer need to use words to speak aloud because they can all communicate with their minds.
I had some decent expectations for this book and ended up being disappointed.
The story had potential but I feel as if the author didn't do a very decent job of making her story live to up to expectations.
(Small "spoiler")Near the end of story where Kayla (heroine) needed to travel up north, she coincidentally kept on bumping into people who were also against the barcode and were also surprising headed to where she needed to go.Overall the novel is decent.
Do not have high/good expectations like I did or you may be disappointed.
The Bar Code Tattoo was super underdeveloped with simplistic writing, which was a shame because the concept was one of the most possible and realistic dystopian futures I've read.
I wonder when company's will get rid of feature phones all together), just a few mere steps away from normal.But even on top of the laaaaame writing, the main character was an utter pain in the butt and really, really shallow.
Kayla is one of the worst heroines I've ever read, so dull and personality-less that I can't even hate her.
this book was on what will happen if everyone in the world was only identified by a code.
In the book, getting a bar code was a cool thing and you get it when you turn a certain age.
18?) but the government was corrupt and was killing everyone that was did not have the perfect DNA.
and anyone with a history of cancer would be killed and the bar code tracked the movements of everyone.
i think it is dumb and harsh to base someone's live on what if their family has a history of cancer.
Everyone should be based on their actions not on anything esle.
Adrienne texted me the other day.
"Omg just read the worst YA series you gotta read it, the bar code tattoo trilogy, it takes like 3 hours for all 3 and it's a mess and I want to talk to you about it lol"I admit I was skeptical, but this book delivered in Hot Mess.
It's got two stars because it's one of those "so bad I need to see where this goes." First of all, it's a book inspired by an end times pamphlet.
This one, however, takes the whole "show, don't tell" advice and chucks it right out the window.
I haven't read this book for a long time, perhaps even five years, but it has stuck with me for all of that time, since I first read this as a young teen.The possibilities that this book describes are terrifying.
A next-century-future novel, where a bar code tattoo is being pushed for every member of society. Why resist when it makes every financial transaction and instance in which ID is required easier? Except some lives are being ruined once people get their tattoo.
Control The three decisions written on the back of this book, and the three things that you decide to have in your life today.
While reading the barcode tattoo I was sent into a future world that doesn’t seem too far off of what we know the world as today.
Kayla struggles to fit into the new big trend, getting a barcode tattoo.
Kayla is on the hunt to find out answers that the government isn’t providing.
A wanted fugitive, she finds herself in the Adirondack Mountains where she joins a resistance group and rebels against the tattoo and tries to find answers to her biggest question; what information does the barcode tattoo hold?
So I signed inwardly to myself,grabbed the cursed novel and took it home.2) An interesting character in this book to me was Mfumbe Taylor.
The quote made me realize that I am actually one of those people that would rather become the problem than face one of my own, which calls for some serious soul searching.4) The barcode concept to this book made me think about what it really meant to be a human being.
I think that yes, people can sometimes be treated as if they are inanimate, such as the social security numbers that you must have in order to make a living or the fact that you need a passport to go see your loved ones.
Society branded those who wanted to remove the bar code tattoo as being sick.
Many people went to such an extreme to remove their bar code tattoo that ultimately they died.
Just as the American colonists fought for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, so did Kayla and those that fought against the bar code tattoo.
Commitment, a willingness to accept risk, and overcoming the fear of failure lead to success in the fight for freedom.The Bar Code Tattoo was an amazing book.
There are two more books in The Bar Code Tattoo series that I cannot wait to read.
Unfortunately for me, that kind of thing breaks my ability to suspend disbelief while reading.The plot, though, was compelling enough to keep me going.I would not be surprised if a future is in store much like that foretold in this novel; where a tattooed barcode on the inner wrist contains your banking information, medical data, drivers license...
Even in the Barcode Tattoo, Canada is a safe haven where people who want to use cash and remain untracked by Big Brother go to hide.While it isn't the most artfully written book, it's fun and light and quick to read, great to kill a few hours in the bathtub or to take up a night with insomnia.
I don't think I can stand another dystopian "corrupt government controls the world" story, for many reasons!
Let me elaborate:A) They are *always* predictable.
Government is somehow corrupt.
Only a small portion of the world is left after the rest was destroyed by savage government sought wars.
And somehow, these books mostly come to one person or a group of people ever throwing a corrupt government.
They're so predictable, ALL THE TIME!
Often, although not always, the protagonist will lose someone close - either a family or a friend, and they will hardly mourn because all of their attention is consumed with some FREAKING HOT BOY!
Hey, what would happen if the government forced us to all get tattoos that recorded all the information about us on our own skins?
Kayla lives in a world where all seventeen-year-olds have to receive a bar code tattoo on their wrists.
Of course, the huge conglomerate that owns everything in America (including the government) has included genetic information on the tattoo.
Some people receive promotions at work after getting the tattoo, while others, like Kayla's dad, sink into a depression and kill themselves.
For while the government has been trying to control evolution, nature has been honing Kayla and her friends' psychic abilities.
In general the book ins about a girl living in a world where one organization is ruling the word, forcing people o get bar code tattoos on their 17th birthdays.
Though the tattoo is not forced by law, yet, almost everyone is getting it.
This includes Kayla, who at first would have agreed to getting the tattoo, but after her fathers mysterious death decides not to.
Soon after she does so, the tattoo is enforced by law.
Only when she sees her wanted picture and her fathers FBI information, does she realize that this is more than just an new type of credit card.
The Bar Code Tattoo is about something that is possible, which is a very scary thing to think about. I was in a reading slump when I started reading this book and it brought me right out of it. I was pulled in from the first page. I just had to know what was happening and how it was going to turn out.There were some things about it that I had problems with. Mainly characters just showing up randomly. Other than that, I really enjoyed this book and will eventually pick up book two.
This book is about this girl named Kayla and She wanted to get the Bar Code Tattoo when She turned seventeen she got it right away. When her dad found out that she got the Bar Code Tattoo her dad committed suicide because of her Tattoo. He really didn't like the fact that she got the Tattoo. Her mom, well I forgot what she said though but I guess that she didn't like the fact either because it drove her dad crazy for the Tattoo.
Honestly this book really disappointed me... I really feel that the author could have done so much more with this story than she did. Although the aspect that disappointed me the most is the love story that Weyn cooked up. In my opinion it had no substance and didn't really draw me in at all, there wasn't really any buildup to the "I love you." If that makes sense... Overall I'm just kind of sad Weyn didn't do more with what could have been an excellent story.
It would be slow and then pick up and then slow way down and then there would be action that would pick up and oh you think so much is going to happen but lol it comes to a screeching halt but you have 100 pages left but there’s still stuff slowly happening.
There’s just too many ways the author could go in the future that it felt as though the author couldn’t make up their mind on where this is going.
I couldn't finish this - it was too much of an "all powerful, total evil government" dystopia.
