https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526578.Of_Mice_and_Men
I haven't read the original book since high school, but the play is set to open this coming weekend* and I swear to God it's incredible.
Not sure if it's because the play script divests of the excessive description or what exactly, but I love this.
I remember not being a fan of the film when we watched it in school either, but I think if I rewatched it or reread the novel now I'd have a greater appreciation for all of it.*That is, the community production I'm ASMing on the fly.
I get why it's a classic but the character names were a bit confusing. Carlson, Curly and Candy. Too many names beginning with C. I read this book at school so it was quite interesting to read it again, see which bits I actually remembered from then and which bits I hadn't. Would definitely recommend it to anyone who's interested in reading the classics or interested in John Steinbeck's writing. Just don't get confused with your C names, hahaha.
✭✭✭✭½
A classic, and much more enjoyable read through than my first attempt in high school. The themes resonated clearly and the constant despair left me emotionally disturbed upon finishing. I'll be composing incidental music for an upcoming production of this play so I'll soon be continuing my acquaintance with the material through music.
Hit a nerve!

Of Mice and Men by John SteinbeckMeet the Ultimate Compassionate Man, the Übermensch of empathy and pity in what looks in parts like- The Good , the Bad and the UglyFor other notes you can access:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...George Milton and Lennie Small are the main characters of this sad story.At the beginning of the tale, we find them drifting and looking for work at a farm, having left home because of an incident.Lennie is very powerful but his mind is that of a five year old o

This is a very powerful, yet sad novel. The story highlights migrant workers during the Great Depression. Through Steinbeck's amazing imagery and vivid descriptions, a story of friendship, dreams and loss emerges. The topic of mental illness also arises in the story - something rarely talked about in classic novels. The characters are plentiful; however, the two main characters share their hopes and dreams with one another, creating a powerful bond. They soon learn that their dreams are unattainable as the story progresses.
So this book is one that we read in highschool, however I only read parts because I hated reading for school. I just read it in full because I'm hoping to get to see the play this month before it's over. The book was excellent, very emotional. I cried, quite a bit actually. It's written in play format which I actually really like. So I'm glad I read it for real, instead of letting the snippets from highschool be what I knew of this book.
I originally read this novel for school, but I don't remember my reaction to it. Naturally, I'm much more drawn to dramas. When I discovered there was a play to the novel, I had to read it. Then, there was no turning back. There is an added beauty of life and emotions in the play. I strongly recommend it.
I read this immediately after finishing the novel. It was near identical with a few additions into the dialogue at some points. The only part that really bothered me was the ending was slightly different and unnecessarily so. I won't put spoilers about how, but I wish the ending followed the book a little more precisely.
A modern american classic. The plot is direct and honest, meaning that the characters representing it are portrayed that way, and as it moves, it takes the readers with it. A classic struggle for the american dream and the love between friends, I find everything about it believable and worthwhile. 9 Men, 1 Woman.
This script is an excellent adaptation of the novella. Since the book is one of my favorites, I was skeptical at first. After reading it, I made the choice to produce the production for a high school level competition. The themes and characters are still completely developed and poignant. Love it!
This is the definition of the perfect play. There is not a wasted image or element. Everything is important. This is a play about how poverty creates loneliness and tragedy. I am left with both frustration and sorrow in my gullet every time I encounter this play.
Every bit as good as the book. (No surprise considering that the book's author was the main writer on this adaption.) If you want my opinions, read what I wrote for the book. One of few plays to make me well up.
Plays upon our fears of big oafs. Some of the best writing shows me for the fallible being I am.
It's been several decades since I read the book that this play is based on, and the play is just as emotional and powerful as the story. I forgot how affecting it was. Pure brilliance!
