https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35376281-let-me-lie
If you enjoy psychological thrillers that contain aspects of the police procedural realm, these books will be right up your ally."Three may keep a secret, it two of them are dead."-Benjamin FranklinThe blurb for Let Me Lie is short, and for good reason.
Like the author's previous novels, this one entices the reader initially with it's vagueness and ends with a shocking twist, so shocking in fact that a handful of people have messaged me with a "Wait, what just happened?" and I was in that same boat as them.
4.5⭐Anna is trying to come to terms with her family’s tragic past. You see, she lost both parents to suicide. Adding to the unbearable pain, it was only within 7 months of each-other. Both having taken their lives in the very same way. Anna is starting over. She has a new boyfriend and a new baby. New beginnings...unfortunately, the past won’t stay in the past!On the anniversary of her mother’s death she receives an anonymous and disturbing card:Suicide? Think again.Is this someone trying to be
4.5⭐️Anna is trying to come to terms with her family’s tragic past.
Or is there something more to her parents deaths/suicide?
After all, Anna never really believed either one was capable of taking their own lives.A diabolically clever thriller loaded with twists you’ll never see coming.
I had several shocking moments that left me speechless all the way to the last page!
So much so I had left it sitting on my shelf for quite some time.
I hope you’ll have the same reaction I did if you decide to read this one!!
A fabulous twisty read with Susanne!🤗Thank you to Edelweiss for an ARC to review.
But, in all fairness of honest disclosure, at certain points in the book I felt the dreaded THREE STAR rating looming in the distance.My queen of plot twists, Clare Mackintosh, does not disappoint in the department of surprise.
I think you will know what I mean when you read it :-)Aside from the (many) shocking plot reveals, Mackintosh brings her flair for sensitively portraying emotional human narratives in this novel.
I particularly adored the character of Murray, a retired cop who agrees to look into the deaths of Anna’s parents, after they have been ruled as suicides.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...I read " I Let You Go " by Clare Mackintosh a few years ago and LOVED it. The author’s second novel " I See You " has been on my TBR for a while and I am looking forward to reading it too. However, when the opportunity came up to read " Let Me Lie ", I was thrilled and couldn’t wait to get reading. The police say it was suicide.  Anna says it was murder.  They're both wrong. Anna Johnson is trying to adjust to life without h
Her mother committed suicide a year ago, just a few months after Anna’s father killed himself.Although Anna still mourns her parents, she has a distraction…a new baby with her partner, Mark.
But not everyone is happy with Anna digging around in the past, and she could be putting herself and her family in danger.Detective Murray Mackenzie is technically retired but works as a civilian at the police station, dealing with things like lost pets.
Then Anna Johnson walks into the police station.
I'm not sure if I am over-analyzing it, but I’ve read it a couple of times and I’m still unsure.I loved Detective Murray Mackenzie's story.
2.5 stars rounded downFirst off I want to mention that I absolutely loved I LET YOU GO and was absolutely WOWED by that book and subsequently will read anything that CLARE MACKINTOSH writes!
For all of you who follow my reviews I think you all are pretty much aware that I pretty much love and enjoy most of the books that I read and I hand out a lot of 4 and 5 star ratings.
LET ME LIE by CLARE MACKINTOSH was an interesting enough psychological thriller with plenty of twists and turns to be had here and there was definitely something about this book that did hold my interest enough to keep me wanting to read to the end.
Copy furnished by Net Galley for the price of a review.Truth be told, Let Me Lie didn't do much for me.
As psychological thrillers go, this was tepid to the point of going cold.
Doubly disappointing as I thoroughly enjoyed the author's first novel, I Let You Go.
Mistakes are made, accidents happen, lies are told.
So many lies, it becomes exhausting.
A new mom is still mourning the suicide of her father.
A few months later, her mother follows suit.
Questions remain.
For seasoned readers of thrillers, this probably won't bring anything new to the table.
Clare Mackintosh and I have a very interesting relationship; I have strong opinions about her novels....and she has no idea who I am. When I started reviewing thrillers, one of the first big stories I reviewed was I See You, and it just wasn't my favorite story. I do know that the author spent over a decade on the police force and it has become some sort of a muse for her widely popular thriller novels. When I received my advanced copy of  Let Me Lie  from Berkley (thank you!), I wanted to give
from Berkley (thank you!), I wanted to give Ms. Mackintosh a second chance.
What makes this story so enthralling for me was that while I was reading, I felt that this could happen to anyone.
With this story, we do receive multiple POVs that alternate mainly between the main character and the police officer investigating the crime.
We hear accounts from Anna and the people in her life and how they dealt with the suicides of Caroline and Tom Johnson.
I grew a tad impatient when starting this story because I knew that it was going to deliver more action.
More on that later.Anna Johnson looks into the sleepy eyes of her newborn daughter, Ella.
(Clare Mackintosh writes this passage in achingly beautiful prose.) But Anna's motherly joy is suppressed by her heavy grief.
Anna receives an anniversary card in the mail with a shocking phrase written on the bottom of the card: Suicide, Think Again.Anna bundles Ella up and rushes to the police station.
Clare Mackintosh can write with a quill made of angel feathers.
Move away from the stilted storylines and give us, once more, the purity and the essence of I Let You Go. If you write it, Clare Mackintosh, we most certainly will come.....again and again.
Everyone, including the police think her parents died by suicide, but Ella knows differently..
When on the anniversary of her mother’s passing, she receives a note in her mailbox which says “Suicide, Think Again” - Anna feels somewhat vindicated and she goes to the police.
Detective Murray Mackenzie helps by investigating, even though he is semi-retired and everyone else in the department has closed their cases.
Thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin Publishing Group and Claire Mackintosh for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
Yes. But true.) This one unfortunately didn’t pan out how I was hoping.
This will be an exciting, twisty thriller to some, but for someone who reads a lot of this genre, I found it to be a bit predictable.
There are many twists to be had, and unfortunately, they didn’t work for me.
This was a Traveling Sisters group read and I always love hearing the perspectives from my buddies, they always add a fresh take to my perspective.
She is just beginning to heal when she receives an anonymous note which suggests that perhaps her parents deaths were not by suicide, as they had been ruled by the police investigation but something else.When Anna calls the police it is an answered by a retired police detective, Murray, who still works at the station at the desk for incoming calls, etc.
I don’t know how much more research backs up these numbers but I know that there are lots of suicides committed every year and perhaps some may have been prevented if someone noticed the signs of depression or mental illness in their loved ones, friends or family and reached out a helping hand.
It’s so hard to weed out the mediocre from the excellent when it comes to psychological thrillers — hard enough that every now and then, it feels like it might be best to abandon the genre altogether.
I’m not quite there yet, but Let Me Lie definitely gets tossed onto the mediocre pile.Both of Anna’s parents committed suicide within a few months of each other — or so she thinks.
While Let Me Lie was clever in parts, it felt long, a bit disjointed and not particularly thrilling or engaging.
This is the third book by Clare Mackintosh that I’ve read, and I always enjoy her writing.
She has a talent for creating emotional, character-driven suspense with amazing twists that really mess with your head.
She makes you love/hate/sympathize with characters, and then bam!
I loved Murray’s character, and his relationship with his troubled wife was heart-rending.
The book goes from a slow-burn in the beginning to a thrilling roller coaster ride at the end, and I enjoyed it all.Disclosure: I received a copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
He was a welcome addition to the story, and ended up being my favorite character.
I applaud the author for wring a character that sheds light and understanding on mental health issues.Unfortunately, back to the main characters, when the twists started coming, the story fell apart for me.
Truthfully, the resolution and the events that happened towards the end ruined the entire book for me.Some readers have enjoyed this book, so don't take my word alone for it - read those reviews too.* Thank you to Edelweiss, the publisher and the author for an e-galley of the book in exchange for an honest review.Thanks to my traveling sisters group - you make reading books together always enjoyable.The Traveling Sister's blog can be found at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
Both parents committing suicide at the same exact spot seven months apart seemed a bit strange.
What could the key be, why is it important to her, and how is she in the house if she is dead?After this, the intrigue began...secrets were being revealed, impossible things happening, ghosts, seeing things that couldn't be there, feeling her mother’s presence, and the reader wondering what Anna’s mother was looking for and what she was trying to protect Anna from or protect herself from.LET ME LIE has GREAT twists and is another Clare Mackintosh book you won't want to miss.
I have read some emotionally driven thrillers in the past, but boy oh boy what the heat on in this o
Anna’s father had been seen just before he apparently jumped to his death and then shortly after Anna’s mother seems to have done the same thing weighted down with the grief of the loss of her husband.But Anna has never been convinced that her parents were suicidal and on the anniversary of her mother’s death she receives a note questioning that fact.
Turning the note over to Murray who is a retired detective he begins to investigate thinking that the couple just may have been murdered instead.Having read I See You by Clare Mackintosh and loving it I was extremely excited to pick up a copy of Let Me Lie and while I enjoyed this one too perhaps I was expecting a bit too much from it.
The police ruled her parents death a suicide but on the anniversary of their death Anna receives an ominous, anonymous note suggesting otherwise. Is it just a hoax, or is it a clue to what really happened to Anna's parents? Clare Mackintosh is so well known in the Crime/Suspense genre that you know you're going to get a terrific read. Let Me Lie is no exception, perhaps even better than her previous publications which I loved. Her writing strength is that she creates every day people that we ca
The police ruled her parents death a suicide but on the anniversary of their death Anna receives an ominous, anonymous note suggesting otherwise.
Is it just a hoax, or is it a clue to what really happened to Anna's parents?
Clare Mackintosh is so well known in the Crime/Suspense genre that you know you're going to get a terrific read.
And, I have to say, that once I began reading Let Me Lie, I did not stop once.
The suspense will pull you in and keep you hooked long after you have finished reading.Five suspenseful and satisfying stars for Let Me Lie!
⭐⭐⭐⭐ / 5First of all, many thanks to Berkley Publishing Group for providing me with an advance review copy of this book via Edelweiss AND a physical copy! All opinions are my own.There are a lot of mixed reviews out there for Let Me Lie, but I am so glad I read it. It is very obvious to me that Clare Mackintosh has A LOT of talent. I both gasped and cried during this book, and there were so many things that happened that I was not expecting. It was my second time reading a book by Mackintosh, an
All opinions are my own.There are a lot of mixed reviews out there for Let Me Lie, but I am so glad I read it.
It was my second time reading a book by Mackintosh, and it definitely won't be my last.Viewpoints alternate through Anna, an unknown (ghost?), and a retired detective named Murray.
A lot of people found the book to be predictable, but I didn't see anything coming.
I think that Mackintosh does a great job of throwing suspicion on lots of different people, and she sure had me fooled.
I also liked that she spent a lot of time on Murray's character.
Big disappoint for me, especially after my first experience with this author-I Let You Go- was an easy 5 stars.I found the protagonist annoying, the plot unrealistic, and the pace so slow I found myself skimming through chapters trying to find the high points. Even the ending couldn't save this one for me.Others have responded more positively than I, so don't let this review scare you off. I still have faith that my next venture with this author will have me singing her praises again. ARC provided by NetGalley
3 starsImagine losing your father to suicide and then months later, your mother follows with her own suicide in the same place your father chose to end his life?
For Anna Johnson, this was her reality.
Trying to cope with this plus the demands of being a new mother having had a baby with her boyfriend is difficult.
Anna begins to question if perhaps these suicide were more, that more being murder.
As always their insights offered a wonderful view of this book.
I loved this authors first book and was very fond of her 2nd but I have so many problems with this one - not to do with the writing obviously she can write - and not even with the addictive quality it's not like I threw it aside, I wanted to know what happened - but I found the plot and execution disappointing considering it came from such an obviously talented author so rather than my *rating reflecting the writing quality this is ALL about everything else.
Then came the end the "hidden bad guy" reveal and I just gave up pretending I could love it and let myself hate it.
I’m glad the story change pace in the second half of the book because I was losing interest fast.This book is told in the first person point of view following Anna, 26, a new mom to Ella.
The second point of view is Murray, a retired police officer investigating into Anna’s parents’ deaths.
There is a third point of view floating around in different chapters.Let Me Lie is well written, though each of the characters’ life seems a bit dull, except Murray’s.
I like following Murray’s point of view.
One year ago, Caroline Johnson chose to end her life brutally: a suicide planned to match that of her husband just years before.
Now with a young baby of her own, Anna misses her mother more than ever and starts to question her parents deaths.
But by digging up their past, she'll put her future in danger.Anna recieves cryptic notes in the mail and begins to question the suicide notes her parents left.
The ending left me a bit a bit disappointed.I would like to thank NetGalley, Little Brown Book Group UK and the author Clare Mackintosh for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
I had read Clare Mackintosh's debut novel, "I Let You Go," and found it to be brilliant and clever.
I have and for sure will read her second book, "I See You" at some point very soon.
A year later she is still grieving but has a baby and is living with a partner.
She receives a note on the one year death anniversary of her mother that makes her question the death.
The writing is still top-notch and I would definitely read another Clare Mackintosh book in a heartbeat!p.s. I'm kind of hoping for a Murray Mackenzie series.
I'd read that for sure!!
There were moments, toward the beginning in particular, that I was a little confused as to what type of story this was trying to be.
The book follows multiple perspectives but the two main ones being, Anna and Murray.
Murray, is a semi-retired criminal investigator, who ends up looking into Anna's parents suicides when she begins to suspect that foul play may have been involved.
There were plenty of twists and turns in this and the end in particular was so wild in bordered on ridiculous.
It did keep me engaged the whole way through; I was particularly drawn to the chapters from Murray's perspective.
I loved every page of this psychological thriller, but then again I’m a big fan of Clare Mackintosh.
Let Me Lie is now my favourite novel by Clare Mackintosh.
With excellent twist in I highly recommend this book.
Nineteen month ago Anna’s father took the newest and the most expensive car from the forecourt of his own business.
Seven months later Anna’s mother followed him.
Clare Mackintosh spent twelve years in the police force however Let Me Lie is a clever fictional part of her creative imagination.
I’m so looking forward to the next book published by Clare Mackintosh.
She’s a bundle of emotions but isn’t imagining things when she receives an ominous (and anonymous) message calling into question her mother’s suicide.
It is told through the lens of three relationships: Tom and Caroline Johnson who both committed suicide within six months of each other; Anna and Mark who met each other when she came to him for grief counseling; and Murray and Sarah Mackenzie, he a retired detective working for the police on minor cases and she suffering from a debilitating borderline personality disorder.
It’s a perfect triad...the victims, the family raising questions and the investigator.
Anna's parents committed suicide.
Maybe they didn't both leap to their deaths from the cliff and take that long plunge into the sea.
Maybe the grief is just too much for her to bear.But Anna knows something is wrong.....and she is determined to find out what.
Wow.....this book is a twisted, suspenseful mind-bending thriller!
As I read, I had a theory about the way I thought the story would end.
This story has plenty of suspense, moves at a good pace and contains more than enough twists, turns and surprises to keep readers turning the pages until the very end!
4.5★sOne year it had been – one year since Anna had lost her mother; seven months after she had lost her father. Her grief was a constant, always by her side. Now with two-month-old Ella, she continued to feel the need to talk to her mum, to ask her advice. Anna also wished she could ask why…But Anna’s doubts about her parents’ method of death hummed inside her – she was sure they wouldn’t have committed suicide; so what  had  happened; were they murdered? The card delivered on the morning of th
Anna also wished she could ask why…But Anna’s doubts about her parents’ method of death hummed inside her – she was sure they wouldn’t have committed suicide; so what 
It was Murray Anna spoke to when she voiced her concerns about her parents’ deaths.
Should she forget the past and move on with her life – let it lie?Let Me Lie is my second by author Clare Mackintosh and another intense and heart stopping psychological thriller which I thoroughly enjoyed.
I highly recommend this excellent novel by an author I’ll definitely read again!With thanks to Hachette AU for my ARC to read and review.
