https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/733917.Grand_Hotel
“The revolving door turns and turns and turns.” Through the revolving doors of the Grand Hotel in Berlin many people come and go. According to Georgi behind the reception desk: “Marvelous the life you see in a big hotel like this, he was thinking. Marvelous. Always something going on.”At present* some of the guests include:- Doctor Otternschlag the severely scarred war veteran who never fails to ask whether there are any letters for him, and who never receives any.- The ballet dancer Madame Gru
Always something going on.”At present* some of the guests include:- Doctor Otternschlag the severely scarred war veteran who never fails to ask whether there are any letters for him, and who never receives any.- The ballet dancer Madame Grusinskaya, a diva who finds it difficult to come to terms with the fact that she is no longer as young as she once was: “Grusinskaya bent all her force to one aim, to be as she had been.
Everyone lives behind double doors and has no companion but his reflection in the mirror or his shadow on the wall.""Perhaps someone steals out of his room into another’s.
Quick, enchanting read about life in a Berlin hotel in the fading glory of the Weimar era. With the visual descriptions and long monologues, it seemed almost made for a film adaptation.
I pulled this old rebound book off the library's shelves just to see whether a novel this old would be interesting, and surprisingly it was.
Interwoven stories of hotel denizens is a now-classic plot, but this 1920s German novel must have been one of the first.
18 Karl Nispe all are interesting studies of the human condition without hitting you over the head with a simplistic Moral of their stories.
At the end of the book you really feel like you have been there in that hotel at that moment in time.
At some points it became almost philosophical and definitly critical in regards to the society during the roaring twenties (f.e moral decline, class differences and anonymity in the mass society of the 20th century).The characters of the book are at the beginning in large part lonly and mentally as well as physically deformed.
But several characters are lying to themselves and some unexpected plot twists are changing their situation.
This novel is definitly worth a re-read and right now I am planning to watch the film version of the novel with the enchanting Greta Garbo!
Thoroughly enjoyed this little known novel from the wonderful New York Review Books Classics list.A handful of characters here but they are so well portrayed and the atmosphere and mood of the novel does take the reader into the Grand Hotel in Berlin in the 1920's.
The Grand Hotel that is no longer quite as grand as the name implies.
There were a few surprises along the way regarding the characters and their motives, all is not as it first appears and appearances can be deceptive.
Ended up enjoying this one far more than I originally thought I would.
Although she described herself as "a first-rate second-rate author," Vicki Baum's Grand Hotel is actually quite a bit better than that.
Baum managed to parlay the novel into a 1932 blockbuster starring Greta Garbo, John and Lionel Barrymore, Joan Crawford, Wallace Beery and a host of supporting stars.
Baum tried to reprise her success with Grand Hotel by writing a number of other novels, but none of them quite hit the mark.
Still, the one novel for which she is known has some nice characterizations:The experiences people have in a large hotel do not constitute entire human destinies, full and completed.
June 2016 NYRB Book Club Selection.Baum's book is a slow start. It took me awhile to get into it. But then when you get to the ballerina and the thief, it is so beautiful. What is amazing, in some aspects, is how little things have changed.
If movies are the crown of entertainment, so this book is most of all a book of entertainment.The witty, intricate construction of the following events have become a model of the kind.
The biggest liar will win the deal.Flämmchen or ‘little flame' is the name of a beautiful young secretary, trying to make ends meet, she swims around the business crowd, ready to follow up on any job, short or long term, official or intimate, happy and full of love of life.
Trotz des Einsatzes typischer Bilder für das Berlin der Zwanzigerjahre, wie der noch intakten Kaiser-Wilhelm-Gedächtniskirche, muss ich konstatieren, dass bei der Lektüre von Vicki Baums berühmten Roman aus dem Jahr 1929 bei mir weder ein rechtes Zwanzigerjahre-Feeling noch ein richtiges Berlin-Feeling aufkam.Ähnlich verhält es sich mit den Protagonisten des Romans, ihre jeweilige Sichtweise schildert Vicki Baum durchaus eindringlich, dennoch bleiben sie merkwürdig zweidimensional, einzig der todkranke Kringelein wirkt plastischer angesichts seiner Situation, er ist zweifellos der interessanteste Charakter des Romans.
Eine echte Verbindung konnte ich jedoch selbst zu ihm nicht herstellen, sodass ich gestehen muss, dass der Plot mich eher langweilte.Sprachlich konnte Vicki Baum mich eher überzeugen, stellenweise ist die Sprache kraftvoll und starke Bilder:„‚Es ist gar nicht so schlimm'“, sagte Kringelein.
In addition to the staff there's a disfigured war veteran, a bookkeeper from a small town far from Berlin, a businessman, a ballerina, and a man posing as a baron who intrudes into their lives hoping to take advantage.
The hotel itself is seen as a kind of haven where the needs of these characters are realized, as opposed to the banality they know away from the hotel.
Much is made of the revolving door, the way in and out of this blissful life.
One imagines lives being lived in the Grand Hotel year after year in much the same way, people going in and out the revolving door.
Berlin of the 1920’s, and here we meet a host of remarkably well drawn characters, who are explored in astute and searching detail.Through the revolving doors of the Grand Hotel come all kinds; the war damaged, the dying, beautiful ageing ballerina, businessman, thief.
The hotel exists to provide the very best of everything for their guests, and yet there is a feeling that like some of its guests, the hotel’s best days are in the past.
The porter on the front desk is a count, putting his ancestry behind him to serve the guests of the Grand Hotel.
The guests that have all checked into the hotel in March of 1929 are an interesting mix of misfits whose stories all collide in a cleverly intertwined plot.The first character to whom we are introduced is Dr. Otternschlag.
In the course of carrying out his carefully laid out plan, the unexpected happens to the normally cool and collected Baron–he falls in love with the woman who is supposed to be his victim.The next person to check into the Grand Hotel is Otto Kringelein who is a lowly and badly paid clerk from a small town.
He, like many others, checked into the Grand Hotel, as a solitary misfit.
My favorite read this year so far. A charming slice of life narrative set in a hotel in interwar Germany which bring a multitude of colorful characters together for a brief moment in an intertwined web that changes them in various ways. Very thankful for the NYRB classics list for this gem.
"For, long or short, Life is what you put into it. Two full days may be longer than forty empty years."
Character StudyThis book started off very slowly for me.
I read maybe the first thirty pages and wasn’t too inspired to continue, except that I was reading it to complete a reading challenge.
There was a lot of set up and a lot of description of the various characters in the hotel.
However, once things start happening, they happen with a bang.
I hadn’t at all anticipated that ending.
It’s surprising to look back and realize the action takes place in just two days, framed by the beginning of labour of a staff member’s wife and then the birth of his daughter.
Last semester, when I worked with a World War II history class, I quickly learned how little the students knew about the interwar period in Germany.
A few knew about the Weimar period, but no one had a really good idea of ordinary life at the time.
Even though the professor frowned on fiction, I wish I could have snuck the students a few novels to help them understand.
Through them, we get a cross section of German society, examined from a deeply human and apolitical perspective...Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
I received a free copy of this book from Edelweiss for review consideration.
Because I need to know: is one of cinema's most immortal quotes actually in the novel?
I’ve yet to see the movie and I’m curious to find out whether its stellar cast comes close to capturing what made each of the characters in this novel come to life – the aging and lonely Russian ballerina diva,Grusinskaya, who is lamenting her lost youth; the charming and elegant young Baron von Gaigern, whose conscience keeps getting the better of his thieving intentions; the retired and fatally ill bookkeeper, Mr Kringelein, who has brought along his life savings in order to encounter ‘real life’ before dying; the arrogant Director Preysing whose business is on the point of bankruptcy; the morose and cynical Dr Otternschlag, who has prepared everything he needs for suicide but in the meantime keeps asking if there are any letters for him even though there never are; and Flämmchen (little flame), the beautiful young secretary who is ready and willing to do whatever is necessary to get ahead.
When you’re young you think it will come later.
I was drawn to this because of a familiarity with Greta Garbo’s Oscar-winning film version (the one Jack Lemmon tries and fails to watch for anyone who knows ‘The Apartment'), I’d also read about Vicki Baum, an Austrian-Jewish writer who moved to America initially to work on the ‘Grand Hotel’ screenplay, after her novel became a runaway hit: a move which ended up saving her life when her work was later classified as ‘degenerate’ by the National Socialist regime.
All people Baum characterises as ‘on the way up’ or ‘on the way down the ladder of life.’ As the novel unfolds we are slowly introduced to each character and the details of their everyday life in the hotel.
No puedo creer que alguien intente deshacerse de libros de esta manera; aunque bueno, le agradezco que lo haya hecho porque así yo he podido recogerlo y descubrir esta historia.Una historia ambientada en el Grand Hotel de Berlín, uno de los hoteles más lujosos del mundo.
Magistralmente escrito, la combinación entre las diferentes historias me parece magnífica, así como las situaciones en las que se encuentran varios de los personajer principales.
Me he enterado de que hay una película basada en esta novela; habrá que verla, ¡a ver si no defrauda!
I was expecting, with its high-end Berlin hotel and multiple characters, some sort of Jazz Age version of an Arthur Hailey novel.
If you're into Cabaret, Berlin Stories (which is basically Cabaret), Babylon Berlin, and all things Weimar, Grand Hotel is a must read.
From what a little I know, it sounds like she basically kept trying to write the same novel, but with different settings.
From what I understand, Baum was part of the New Objectivity movement (which sounds to me like some sort of version of Realism or Naturalism).
The lives of a handful of characters in Weimar Berlin’s finest hotel, this just did not do anything for me at all. The prose is…fine, I mean nothing one way or the other, but the characters are real stock—an aging ballerina, a gentleman thief, a nebbishy clerk with a fatal illness who decides to blow all his remaining money on learning to live before he dies – I couldn’t detect an actual human being anywhere in the bunch. Hokey, man, real hokey, Library but I’d drop.
Introduction, by Noah Isenberg--Grand Hotel
Being a novel, it goes into far more psychological depth and is a great deal more risque - when Flammschen flees from Preysing's room, for instance, she is stark naked, which both clearly indicates her close call with prostitution and represents a rebirth: like a baby she emerges naked and (quite literally) crying and later decides to change the direction of her life.
It's entirely appropriate, then, that the fates of the characters (those who live anyway) are left entirely unknown: reading the novel is like working for a few days at the hotel itself with Vicki Baum doubling as the concierge who lets you poke around in everyone's rooms.
While it doesn’t aim to follow a conventional narrative arc, Grand Hotel has plenty of surprises in store for its readers, many of which are connected with the secrets and inner lives of this diverse group of guests.The central character in the mix is Otto Kringelein, a down-at-heel bookkeeper who has travelled from the provinces to Berlin to live the high life for a week or two.
He saw men in dress coats and dinner jackets, smart cosmopolitan men.
Took me months to finish. Thought I would like it more than I did, since always interested in cultural depictions of interwar Germany, but reading this was at times excruciating. The second half was much better than the first, but every scene with Grusinskaya (the role played by Greta Garbo in the 1931 film) was torture.
Something I enjoy from time to time is reading the original novels upon which famous films were based (VERTIGO, THE LODGER, WRITTEN ON THE WIND, IMITATION OF LIFE) - so, I'm finally getting around to GRAND HOTEL.
As the back cover proclaims, "These are some of the men and women of the GRAND HOTEL: A beautiful ballerina to whom love is no less an art than dancing .
a lovely and ingenuous peasant girl (with a fixed price on her charms) .
a down-trodden clerk with only a few weeks left to in which to grasp life.
Ehrlich gesagt, hatte ich mir von Baums "Menschen im Hotel" bei weitem mehr versprochen.
Obwohl es sich noch recht interessant anlas, zog sich die Handlung allmählich wie Gummi bis zur letzten Seite.
Baum verwendete meinem Geschmack nach zu viele unnötige Worte, wodurch sie regelmäßig den Erzählfluss zum Stocken brachte und den dramaturgischen Aufbau immer wieder behinderte.
Aber an einem gewissen Punkt begann mich die detailierte Schilderung nur noch zu langweilen, zumal ich für keine der Charaktere jemals ein tieferes Interesse gewinnen konnte.
Diese besagten Menschen im Hotel blieben für mich bis zum Schluss blass und bedeutungslos.
Salvo por el detestable personaje de Preysing la novela se desarrolla de una manera sutil, amena, ligera y efervescente. Es un tanto Kafkiana respecto a un contador de poca monta, Twainiana por un Barón y Hessiana por la bailarina pero en resumidas cuentas un buen libro nocturno. La historia (por referencia actual) es un corretijo de actores a la mera orden de Wes Anderson y la calidad de la prosa se deja ver desde el primer instante.
I saw the movie version of this many years ago and was delighted to see it was based on a book. And what a book! A precise observation of the human animal and how our lives end up as something we never imagined or, despite ourselves and situation, destiny can squeak in a good moment or two.Very memorable characters and good writing. Now it's time to watch the movie again with all those early famous Hollywood movie stars!
