https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30672.Darkness_at_Noon
The Old Bolsheviks that brought communism to power in Russia are being eliminated one by one by their once friend and colleague referred to in the book as No. 1, but of course he is none other than Joseph Stalin.
The young revolutionary Joseph Stalin.Rubashov has been in trouble with the party before, but had always managed to do what was necessary to survive.
Our Revolutionary Heroes, after the war, were willing to share a certain amount of power with the people.
L'UNICO SOGNO CONSISTE IN UNA PAROLA SCRITTA SULLA PORTA DEL CIMITERO DEI VINTI: DORMIREEcco un libro che mi colpì molto ed è rimasto profondo nella mia memoria, forse perché è stato il primo che ho letto sull'argomento (le purghe staliniane, per usare una definizione riduttiva).Forse invece perché è proprio bello e magari meriterebbe la quinta stella.Altro elemento che colpisce è che fu scritto nel 1940, pochi anni dopo l'inizio di quel mostruoso periodo storico, e viene da pensare che se non è il primo su questo tema, ci vada molto vicino.Colpisce anche la biografia dello stesso Koestler: all'università studia scienze, ma poi abbandona e si unisce a un'organizzazione sionista in Palestina (1926).
His best known work, it is the tale of Rubashov, an Old Bolshevik who is arrested, imprisoned, and tried for treason against the government that he had helped to create.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه سپتامبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: ظلمت در نیمروز؛ نویسنده: آرتور کوستلر (کستلر)؛ مترجم: اسدالله امرایی؛ ویراستار: غلامحسین سالمی؛ تهران، نقش و نگار، 1379؛ در 240 ص؛ شابک: 9646235239؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان مجارستانی سده 20 ممترجم: مژده دقیقی؛ تهران، ماهی، 1391؛ در 245 ص؛ شابک: 9789642091324؛ مترجم: محمود ریاضی؛ علی اسلامی؛ تهران، در 230 صمترجم: ناصرقلی نوذری؛ تهران، در 184 صظلمت در نیمروز، بازنمایی دادگاه‌های نمایشی، و تصفیه‌ های استالینیستی ست، که یکسال پیش از جنگ جهانگیر دوم، در شوروی اوج گرفت.
Darkness at Noon conveys the brutality and claustrophobia of the prison cell and interrogation room, and you kind of do feel like you're there, toothache and hunger and all, and okay let's be honest: it isn't much fun.This story, such as it is, covers the madcap adventures of one Mr. Rubashov, a revolutionary who is in the process of being purged by the vaguely Stalinesque "Number One," leader of the Party that Rubashov helped to create.
I mean, there really isn't a novel here without the political stuff, and I sort of feel like I took two main things away from this.
I will concede that Darkness at Noon certainly doesn't resonate as clearly with the current state of the world as does Nineteen Eighty-Four, with which it is often compared.
But Darkness at Noon is nonetheless a wonderfully profound and important book.
Koestler explores the nature and substance of conviction: how belief in an ideology can skew moral judgement and cause people to rationalise their actions within the ideological framework.
This is a corrupted morality based on the perpetuation of the system, rather than on any real concept of right and wrong.At the core of Rubashov's story is the struggle of youth against age.
An Announcement Concerning the Class Traitor NotAfter a scrupulously fair trial in the Amazon People's Court, Comrade Not has been found guilty of posting an ideologically unsound review.
Amazon has also offered Not a course of reeducation.
Their representatives arrived promptly at 4 am yesterday morning, and courteously but firmly helped Not to understand her dialectical misconceptions.Since her reeducation course, Comrade Not's behavior has been much improved.
She has not written any more ideologically dubious posts, but sits in front of the TV, watching Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and weeping quietly.
I need reminders from time to time, like those in this novel, of psychological and moral atrocities, of the hyper-viciousness of a pack lead by unstable maniacs and sociopaths. Darkness at Noon is a chilling novel about Nicholas Salmanovitch Rubashov, an old Bolshevik, formerly Commissar of the People, and a leader in the 1917 Russian REVolution, who is imprisoned during Stalin's purges after he speaks out against the tyranny of his former comrades. These former comrades torture Rubashov and break him psychologically until he confesses to "crimes" he did not commit. A powerful political classic.
حزب را رها میکند، بله ولی کمونیسم را نه. نامهی سرگشادهی کنارهگیری از حزب را هم که مینویسد باز هم خود را کمونیست میداند. بعدها هم این را با خرسندی اعلام میکند، تا اخر عمر. دورهی عضویت در حزب نه بیهوده بوده و نه بیثمر، متضمن شناخت و آشنایی با دیگر مسائل، ثمره تعلق خاطر پیدا کردن به انسانها، به محرومین زمین، مطرودین و روی دست ماندهها. بعدها در پایان عمر بر سر نویسندهای که مطلبی خلاف این نوشته، دستخوش خشمی دیرسال میشود و بر سرش فریاد میزند "من کمونیستم، میفهمی؟ کمونیست". دربارهی مارگریت دوراس، برداش
آثار داستانی بسیاری در مورد آنچه در پس پرده‌ی آهنین شوروی، بخصوص در دهه‌ی سی طی تصفیه‌ی کبیر حزب و بعدها در دادگاه‌های مسکو رخ داده به نگارش در آمده است، اما این اثر کستلر از دو جهت نسبت به دیگر آثار حائز اهمیت است: نخست آنکه کستلر خود از اعضای وفادار حزب کمونیست بود که مدتی را هم در سلول انفرادی فالانژهای اسپانیا گذراند و دوم آنکه ظلمت در نیمروز، از لحاظ ادبی در نوع خود شاهکاری بزرگ و برانگیزاننده محسوب می‌شودروباشوف، شخصیت اصلی داستان، کمیسر عالی خلق و از اعضای کمیته مرکزی حزب کمونیست شوروی است که طی تصفیه سیاسی سال 37 شوروی دستگیر و در نهایت طی اعتراف‌هایی ساختگی در دادگاه علنی به اعدام محکوم می‌شود.
عکس او در کنار عکس شخص اول روی دیوار ها نصب شده بود، اما یک روز صبح می آیند که او را دستگیر کنند و ...در زندان خودش را برای شکنجه هایی جسمی آماده می کند، اما خودش را در دوئلی ذهنی با بازجوهایش می یابد، همکارش ایوانوف و گتکین که مردی جوان تر است از او بازجویی می کنند.
کستلر تا سال 1938 که تصمیم به تغییر عقیده می گیرد، یک کمونیست بود، کسی که از اتحاد جماهیر شوروی دیدن کرده بود و برخی از رهبرانش را می شناخت، او در شرایطی قرار گرفته بود که به خوبی این وضعیت و شرایط را درک کند، با داشتن درکی از هم تئوری مارکسیزم و هم اعمال و اقدامات استالین.
Darkness at Noon is a haunting picture of life in the darkest era of Stalinist Russia inside a political prison.
This ambiguity makes the book an engaging read cover to cover.
As many countries shift towards authoritarian regimes, this is a timely book to read about the harsh realities for those who are not elites and even those elites who fall out of favor politically and are flattened by the machine of the state.
In 1938, disillusioned by Stalin’s Moscow show trials and indiscriminate purges of the so-called counter-revolutionaries, he left the Party.
The psychological torture, as depicted in the book, is adequate.
Tension inexorably mounts in the book.The beginning is confusing.
By the end it felt OK, but I never grew to like it.
What I dislike, but which may not disturb others, is Muller’s tendency to progressively speak faster and faster, to increase suspense and tension.
It is more prominent at the beginning than at the end of the audiobook.
At the time of publication (1940), it was not uncommon to find many foreigners who were sympathetic to Stalin and his rule of the Soviet Union, praising his achievements of industrializing the country and bettering life for his people - and either ignoring what reports there were of his tyranny, or excusing them as historically inevitable.
One of the more famous examples is the American journalist and correspondent for the New York Times Walter Duranty, who in the 1930's not only tried to justify Stalin's government but openly denounced in his reporting that any famine was taking place in the Ukraine - a result of Stalin's policy of collectivizing agriculture, which took several million lives in an area with some of the world's richest farmland.
At the end of 1984 Winston Smith asks O'Brien why the party acts the way it does.
Darkness at Noon explores this question more fully and in a more honest way.
They believed it right to commit atrocious acts in the name of an idea, namely scientific socialism.
They believed the people of their own time would not accept this idea (because they have been shaped by socioeconomic conditions to consider morality which leads inevitably to the status quo, which is slavery) but future generations would see the rightness of their acts.
Nothing is worse in prison than the consciousness of one's innocence; it prevents acclimatization and undermines one's morale...Comrade Rubashov has been arrested.
He knows, for instance, this truth about the consciousness of innocence - as the unseen man in the neighboring cell clearly does not.
It's a tap-tap-tap one indulges, but fails to politically profit by.Koestler's classic, Darkness at Noon, follows the aging Rubashov through the days and nights of this imprisonment.
It is a stark and unforgiving light he shines on Communist Party politics.
But this is not predictable as it sits in wait, as we in our steady plow continue.I don't like books of fact, history, political anthems.
We devote our entire lives to the Party's program which has been thought out by the smartest men with their powers of reason to the furthest possible moment of calculation.
Maybe we both are learning things we didn't know we knew.When someone from our small corridor of cells was to be next to be tortured or executed word passed furiously through the walls.
Not unlike you reader and your friend of years who you thought you would read this book for and now finding it a much different experience.
من نسخهٔ کوتاه شدهٔ کتاب رو که برای رادیو تنظیم شده بود گوش دادم. اما اون قدر خوب بود که می خوام کاملش رو هم بخونم.
Definitely one of the greatest novels of the 20th century. I am embarrassed, frankly, that I'm 37 and reading this only now. This is a work I should have read in high school, then in college, then again almost every year since. Standing guard silently behind greats like Orwell and Hitchens is Arthur Koestler. Rubashov is one of the best-realized characters and Darkness at Noon is a near-perfect novel. Dostoevsky would have killed Koestler with an axe, and Tolstoy would have pushed his ass in front of a train just to have stolen this one piece.
It is at its heart a sociological study of revolution, power, truth, dialectical materialism, dissent and how those in power in any totalitarian state maintain that power whilst justifying / rationalising extreme measures in the name of the party and the revolution – about how dissidents are dealt with.Various themes are explored concerning the prosecution / persecution of those on the basis, not just on the basis of crimes (allegedly) committed but also those which were expected to be committed against the state as a consequence of opinion - in other words, being charged on the basis of opinion, conscience and assumed intention.This is a world where blind discipline and absolute trust constitute service to the party and where opposition and dissent is viewed as wrong, contemptible and punishable – all in the name of protecting the party and maintaining power.
It is I suppose in that way more akin to 1984 in its insights into the mind of somebody inside a totalitarian system than memoirs written inside the Soviet Union.It was written in 1940, perhaps the way to think about it is the search of an intellectual outside the Soviet Union to understand the treason trials and the shocking confessions of old Bolsheviks and trying to make sense of that and explain it in fictional form to the reading public.
Koestler—no stranger to dark, narrow prison cells and the exquisite torture of living minute to precious minute awaiting the stark drum roll of the executioner's approaching footsteps—brings all of his harsh experience to this swiftly-moving, wrenching tale about how such self-accusatory enthusiasm comes to be engendered within a soul cracked by the relentless press of the interrogators logic and wracked by pain, both physical, mental, and spiritual.Rubashov is Koestler's depiction of the remnant of the original Bolshevik inner circle, a companion of Stalin and devout believer in the justice and historical necessity of the Revolution and the Party.
Even with good writing, a matching understanding of psychology, and a complex story, without grubbing at deeper concerns a book may inform, but will not inspire.The birth of Socialism was marked by The Communist Manifesto, but its scope was too narrow, and falling to Hume's is/ought dilemma, the philosophies Marx outlined were never really given form--proving once again there is noting inevitable about an ideal.
نمیدانم در سیستمهای سیاسیِ دیگر هم همین شباهت با دورانِ پاکسازیِ شوروی سابق وجود دارد یا نه. به هر حال من در لابلای خطوط این رمان موسوی را میدیدم که همچون روباشف با بازجویانِ جوانِ انقلابیِ نسل جدید مواجه میشود که خردکنندهاند. زنده باد ادبیات که چنین رنجهایی را بهخوبی ثبت میکند و با خودش به نسلهای بعد میبرد.
نمی‌دانم در سیستم‌های سیاسیِ دیگر هم همین شباهت با دورانِ پاکسازیِ شوروی سابق وجود دارد یا نه. به هر حال من در لابلای خطوط این رمان موسوی را می‌دیدم که همچون روباشف با بازجویانِ جوانِ انقلابیِ نسل جدید مواجه می‌شود که خردکننده‌اند. زنده باد ادبیات که چنین رنج‌هایی را به‌خوبی ثبت می‌کند و با خودش به نسل‌های بعد می‌برد.
This peculiar distinction has been little discussed in the vast critical literature about Koestler and his famous novel.
In my lengthy 2009 biography of Koestler I barely touch on it, yet the phenomenon is all the more extraordinary when one considers that the novel has been translated into over thirty other languages, every one of them based on the English edition, meaning that they are not just translations, but translations of a translation.
This includes the German version, which Koestler himself translated back into German in 1944.
Όμως σε αντίθεση με την περίπτωση του Μπροχ που εξέφρασα παράπονο για τη μη αναφορά του απ’ τον Καμύ, εδώ ορθώς δεν αναφέρεται ο Καίσλερ διότι δεν αποτελεί μέλος του άμεσα εμπλεκόμενου πληθυσμού, αλλά εξωτερικό παρατηρητή.Τι θα πει εγώ; Τι θα πει εμείς; Τι θα πει λαός; Το εμείς και το εγώ του Κόμματος είναι λέξεις ταυτόσημες, σε οποιαδήποτε άλλη περίσταση το εγώ είναι ταυτόσημο με το μηδέν.
Διαπίστωσε πως εκείνη η διαδικασία που κακώς την αποκαλούμε μονόλογο είναι στ’ αλήθεια ένας διάλογος μιας ειδικής υφής: ένας διάλογος στον οποίο ο ένας απ’ τους συνομιλητές παραμένει σιωπηλός, ενώ ο άλλος, αντίθετα προς κάθε γραμματικό κανόνα, τον αποκαλεί εγώ, αντί να τον αποκαλεί εσύ, έτσι ώστε ν’ αποκτήσει την εμπιστοσύνη του και να βυθομετρήσει τις προθέσεις του.
One of them is Christian and humane, declares the individual to be sacrosanct...the other starts from the basic principle that a collective aim justifies all means, and not only allows, but demands that the individual should in every way be subordinated and sacrificed to the community.Koestler believes in socialism; his question is, if achieving socialism means torturing and murdering a few people, do we throw out the people or socialism?
Once again, a person is tortured for the sake of a system; there are Americans with waterboards who believe that the ends justify the means.

Gün Ortasında Karanlık Koestler'in en başarılı eserlerinden biri olarak kabul ediliyor.
Her ne kadar net bir dönem ismi belirtilmemişse de kitabın Stalin Dönemi'ni eleştirisi olduğunu kitap ile ilgili söylenenler arasında.Rubashov'un sabah aniden kapısının çalınıp tutuklanmasıyla bu karamsar süreç başlıyor.
Okurken cidden bir hücre içinde nefessiz kaldığımı hissettiğim çok an oldu.Özgürlük teması, kitabın geçtiği Stalin Dönemi'nin (net şekilde belirtmemişse de) karanlığı çok iyi betimlenmişti.
Hücre için iletişim içinde iletişimsizlik, hücrelerin içine tıkılan farklı insanların ayrışmışlığı çok edebiydi.SonuçBu tarzda yazılan çok tema var aslında.
Koestler'i farklı kılan ciddi olarak Rubaskov ve kitabın atmosferi.
Bir kahraman nasıl yaratılır sorusunu Arthur Koestler çok başarılı olarak ortaya koymuş olduğunu düşünüyorum.
For a long time he has had a recurring dream of being arrested in his bed, while sleeping under the poster of No. 1 (Stalin), the same poster that hangs above every bed, on every wall.
It's not a lot of choice, but Rubashov is a stubborn old man who still likes to argue Policy and doctrine with his interrogators.
I read at least six other books while making my way through this one.
I don't like books where the enemy is a faceless presence, as No. 1 is, yet this works perfectly here - for the Party is a machine, an unfeeling, uncaring thing with only one purpose.
تاریخ ظلماتدربارهی «ظلمت در نیمروز» و ترجمههای فارسیاشمیلاد کامیابیانکتابهای بسیاری تاریخ را روایت میکنند و کتابهای بسیار کمی اهمیت تاریخی دارند. اما کتابهایی که این هر دو ویژگی را باهم داشته باشند انگشتشمارند. «ظلمت در نیمروز» آرتور کوستلر یکی از آنهاست. نویسنده خودش از آن تاریخسازها بوده: تا پیش از وقوع جنگ جهانیِ دوم فرصت کرده، با چرخشی اساسی، از صهیونیسم به کمونیسم بگراید و از آن هم بگسلد و، بعد، در حین جنگ، در فرانسه زندانی شود و به ارتش بریتانیا بپوندد و برای بیبیسی کار کند و، پس از پایان
ترجمه‌ی این رمان به فارسی هم تاریخ خودش را دارد: حالا، ترجمه‌ی مژده دقیقی از این اثر که به‌تازگی منتشر شده –اگر اشتباه نکنم– می‌شود پنجمین ترجمه‌ی ظلمت در نیروز.
اثری که بخت ترجمه‌ی مجدد را می‌یابد، فارغ از تحولات زبانیِ رخ‌داده، تغییرات بنیادیِ اوضاع کلی‌تر جامعه را عیان می‌کند و این خودْ کیفیت تاریخیِ مضاعفی برای آن اثر پدید می‌آورد، حتی اگر، چنان‌که پیش‌تر گفتیم، مانند ظلمت در نیمروز آرتور کوستلر، یکی از آن کتاب‌های انگشت‌شماری باشد که هم روایتی تاریخی به دست می‌دهد و هم خودْ واجد اهمیتی تاریخی است.
"ظلمت در نیمروز"نوشته ی "آرتور کاستلر" نویسنده ی مجارستانی است که بهترین اثر او به شمار می رود.در این رمان ،از دستگیری تا اعدام بولشویک پا به سن گذاشته ای به نام «روباشوف» را میخانیم که( در داستان) از رهبران انقلاب ۱۹۱۷ و عضوی از کمیته مرکزی حزب کمونیست شوروی بوده.عنوان کتاب " ظلمت در نیمروز " اصطلاحی است که از انجیل گرفته شده و به معنای آن است که کسی به گناه ناکرده دم تیغ برود.به هنگام نیمروز ظلمت همهجا را فراگرفت و تا ساعت سه بعدازظهر ادامه یافت.در این وقت عیسی با صدای بلند فریاد زد: «ایلوئی ا

