https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3206011-crazy-love
Chan seeks to combate the "lukewarmness" of the American Church by calling us to live a radical "obsessed" life for Jesus.
The problem with all that is I can sell all my possessions, spend decades in Africa doing missionary work and still not love Jesus.
Chan's call to radical Christianity doesn't necessarily address the primary problem in the American Church, he's just giving us something new and exciting to do, something that's frankly easier than taking up our cross daily and following Jesus.
books that cause you to read something and then quietly close the book, lay it on your lap and meditate on what you have just read.
So many times while reading this I had to stop and wrap my mind around what I just read.
Francis Chan has taken the very things that I need to focus on and concisely and passionately expressed them in this book in a way that I totally get.
How to live my life in a way that I am showing a God who loves me that I love Him back.
Without a doubt one of the most influential books I have read.
Not sure where this leaves, say, Mother Teresa, who focused more on taking care of people than convincing them to say prayers.Oh, and now Chan's confronting the problem of hell.
A student asks how a loving God can demand we love him via threats of punishment, and Chan's response is that God does it for our own good.
So remember: when your partner threatens and punishes you, it's acceptable, because that's how God works.Next (Ch 4) is a misinterpretation of the 'lukewarm' verse in Revelations (for a great interpretation, Rob Bell has a sermon in Mars Hill's series on the Letters to the 7 Churches.
I wrote them down immediately after reading each– I was honestly summarizing and reflecting upon what I took from that part of the book:Chapter 1:Summary: “God is crazy awesome, stand in awe and fear of him.”Reflection: “MISSING: the words ‘God is love.’ This should have been first in his list of God’s attributes, but that idea was missing altogether – instead God seems a bit angry.”Chapter 2:Summary: “You might die soon, is your life a waste?”Reflection: “Didn’t really like this chapter.
Totally whooped my tail. Probably THE most convicting spiritual book I've ever read. Challenges you out of any luke-warm tendencies. Challenges you especially in the realm of giving financially and sacrificially. Really, really good - prepare to be challenged out of your mind.
4.5/5 stars What an incredibly powerful and convicting read. This book really challenged me a lot - I'm gonna have to change some things after reading it!I really like Francis Chan's style of writing and how personable his narration seems.Really really great!
God reached me in the darkest stage of my life, and today I'm the happiest man in the world.I'm not going to say that this book changed my life forever and ever and therefore you need to read it and love it.
But as opposed to condemnation, you can approach those verses with the understanding that Jesus both likes you and loves you more than you can possibly imagine and that his grace is stronger than you can imagine.This book isn't without its faults.
We don't need to "please God" like the book seems to imply.
God's ability to provide isn't like a pie, where there are only eight slices, and if you have two slices someone else gets none.My other problem with Chan's singular Truth is it focuses on one line, "...sell all your possessions and give the money to the poor..." He ignores what comes before and after that statement.
Personally, I'm focusing on "'But with God everything is possible.'" In summary, my fundamental problem with Chan's book is the idea that it's a requirement that we demean ourselves in order to help out our fellow man.
This book is incredible. One of my all time favorites. Chan takes simple truths we have heard our whole lives, but actually challenges and dares us to change our lives.
I don't think he could have published this book with a straight face unless he eventually did so.I'll just say that this book is really one chapter, one sermon, stretched into 180 pages through a saturation of scripture quotes (not a bad thing) and repetition.My positive take is that Chan is UNDERSTANDABLY concerned about the state of American Christianity and HIGHLY COMMITTED to his understanding of the gospel and the God he sees in Scripture.My theological take is that Chan knows only the law (not the Gospel) and, ironically for a Pentecostal, does not seem to trust the Holy Spirit to produce fruit, seen and unseen, in the lives of those who hear the Word in faith.
To be fair, Crazy Love does in fact add a touch of narrative creativity and useful morality to the basic, useless evangelical message: that God loves everyone, but if you don’t believe just right and act just so, God will smite your @$%… One thing Francis Chan adds to that weary tripe and trope is a refreshing invitation to downsize.
Despite his all-too-regular message that God will bless true believers, and his obvious and unobjectionable call to donate more of our blessings, Chan embraces solidarity with the poor and repudiates any hint of the prosperity gospel, in ways uncommon to the evangelical community.
I'm not a very good Christian these days - heck, I'm not even sure if I qualify as Christian, since I'm not big on evangelism - but I do believe that the way Christ lived is the way we should live - loving, giving, sacrificing, and with minimal possessions.
This book is bound to get some people thinking about how much they have and how much they should be giving, which is a very good thing.
The things I dislike about the book have more to do with what I dislike about Christianity in general and not the book or Chan himself.
Instead this book often uses fear, guilt, and shame to attempt to get people to love God back by doing what he requires us to do.
Again, this book was really helpful for me at a more beginning developmental stage, but I don't believe it is the most accurate picture of the love of God and how that love transforms us and inspires us to our full potential of what we were created to be.
For a book on the love of God, I recommend Brennan Manning's "Abba's Child."
The book is mired with the individualism that is such a negative force in evangelical theology.
Even more to the point, the first half the book only encourages the just "me and God" mentality that is truly a scourge of evangelical theology.
3. I've spent a great deal of time in my ministry trying to combat the anti-masculine bias present in modern Christianity (note: for more on that topic, check out David Murrow's book Why Men Hate Going to Church).
The tone Chan writes with in this book only combats the efforts of myself and others with similar concerns.
I thought, “Here is yet another one of those Christian books, telling me—as a Christian (because I proudly claim the title)—to love God and not to be lukewarm and all these things I’ve heard a million times before.”But then there were those few weeks where nothing seemed important at all.
(Don’t we all feel that way sometimes?)Then I returned to this lovely little red volume and I was frightened because, right after the part where I stopped reading, was a section about serving God, and how He’s supposed to come before everything and everyone else.
But now I think that I don't need to be "crazy" to love God. Maybe quiet, day to day acts of faithfulness, in a fairly ordinary kind of a life are just as important as the big, "wow, you're so amazing" acts which Chan seems to advocate.
I don't know exactly what God has to say about that, but whilst walking round a photography exhibition with photos from some of the worlds most troubled and dangerous places, I left thinking the world is a pretty scary, unsafe kind of a place for the vast majority of people.
I haven't read all of these books, so I will refrain from commenting on them and stick to Crazy Love.
This was just starting to get interesting and you left it dangling only to repeat some of this in a further chapter." Or maybe someone should have said, "You are making broad generalized claims about Christians, the Church, America.
In the end, I am kind of confused about how Chan wants his readers to go about being "overwhelmed by a relentless God." Perhaps this is because he never fully diagnoses the reason why many Christians are in the shape we are.
When asked if Crazy Love’s author Francis Chan believes God calls us to live a radical, crazy life, Chan responded, “It should be the only thing that makes sense,” and in these pages he gives compelling evidence pointing to a church that is not living Biblically.
He compares modern American Christians to a boy asking a girl on a date, but not wanting to drive her to the restaurant or to pay for her meal.
Chan talks about the myth that we are in control of our lives, how pride plays into it, and how worship, prayer, and purposeful joy result from giving this control over to the Lord.
I don't need to read one more "Christian" book that reminds me what a failure I am and how far I fall from the mark.
I just don't think God had this type of " evangelism" in mind, call me crazy.
I also love how the author calls for us all to practically quit our jobs and follow God to the ends of the earth.
Yeah, I think God understands that we can't all be missionaries.
In essence, this book exemplifies many of the attributes of modern evangelicism that I find to be counter productive.
Everybody should read this book. It's an eye-opener!
"Pleasing" God belongs to pegan sacrifices, not worship for a God who would die as a human for the very people who tortured and murdered Him. A couple of wording issues within the book appeared, leading the reader to certain conclusions that might not be what Chan means to communicate.
The issues that I have with the book is more with the way that it was written and worded, and less with fundamental differences in beliefs.
Despite these couple examples of a few issues I had with the book, the book was a lovely communication of God's goodness and how He should be central in our lives.
These kinds of stories inhibit real emotion, I believe, and a story like what I just described appeared in the first chapter of the book.
I don't know, I thought it would be more beneficial to get a dentist to Ethiopia.The woman who was a prostitute and now caters to prostitutes as a Christian was an awesome story, though.Chan did say some awesome things about the general complacency of Christians, and outlined what being "obsessed" with God looks like, though.
I think he should have reminded us that the "profile of the obsessed" is not attainable without the grace and help of God. http://thebookishsarah.wordpress.com
Personally, I approach books that deal with God looking to listen and learn from others experiences and take what I can incorporate myself from those things I feel I can improve on - in other words, pretty much everything.
If I have learned anything in my own walk with God, it would be I am imperfect, and in need of love, both giving and receiving in my relationship with Jesus and I am thankful my salvation is a free gift since I could never have earned it otherwise.
I felt the sincerity in Chan's writing and think he added an interesting view of God through his personal relationship and his growing understanding.
It will motivate fearful living in the hope of maybe being good enough for God. I'm not denying that there are many people who claim to be Christians and are not.
But I am saying that we should make such people examine their faith, not their works.
Get people to put their faith in Christ and to see how magnificent his love is.
Get them to build on that faith by seeing that every promise of God is reliable and that living for him is more precious than living for self.Otherwise this was a good book.
We will not see them in heaven." As far as I'm concerned, we can read this one of two ways: either as someone who falls snugly into his outrageous category of elitist mega-Christians, or as someone who, simply put, isn't going to Heaven.It falls short of what I know of my God - who IS love, and patience, and grace - on so many levels I can't even count them.
This is puzzling.While the problem assessed is that the church has an inaccurate view of God, instead of writing to correct that, Chan spends most of his time writing to persuade the reader that he or she should be living a more “radical” “risky” “adventurous” life, not once recognizing that sometimes we truly are called “to aspire to live quietly, and to mind [our] own affairs…” (1 Thess.
But grace is profoundly scarce in this book on God’s crazy love.The problem that causes shallow, "lukewarm," stagnant Christian living is indeed an inaccurate view of God, as Chan rightly assessed.
An amazing look at what it truly means to live for Christ.
All I can say is I am a work in progress.Am I spending enough time with the Lord?Am I listening to His call on my life?Am I giving to thoes in need with a loving heart?Am I doing things out of love or guilt and fear?Am I denying myself for His purposes?What am I putting first in myt life is it me or God?Am I dealing with sim or am I justifying?It's good to be challenged and to grow in my Faith.
I don't want to stay as I am.
I want a deeper relationship with the Lord.
Not because you told me to, but because I wanted to read it before it was too late!And I'm so glad I did.For the first chapter or two, I really wanted to like Crazy Love.
The point Chan is trying to make here, and for the course of the whole book, is that while we can never comprehend just how much God loves us, we should try.
I was reminded of Tozer's concept of the "fellowship of the burning heart", which is in many ways a precursor to the concepts found in Crazy Love.My only point of contention with Chan is his view of lukewarm Christians: "As I see it, a lukewarm Christian is an oxymoron; there's no such thing." I am a firm believer in the concept of "once saved always saved".
Instead, he seeks to probe at the heart of the reader and ask them to search their heart and decide if their life truly shows the love they profess for God. And what does that mean, anyway?
When did Following Jesus become a "ticking the boxes" or "going through the motions" exercise, instead of the manifestation of a genuine love relationship with the Savior?
Instead, he encourages the reader to seek out a daily, open relationship with God, and to let that impact every part of their life.I take from this book, that being 'safe' in my walk with God doesn't represent the full dimensions of what being a believer in Jesus can bring to my life.
