https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6469165-what-alice-forgot
You see, I thought this would be a well written, intelligent, heartwarming story about a woman who loses ten years of her life, but finds some other, maybe even more valuable things instead.
However, it takes more than that to upset her these days: she is only 29, she has a new house, an amazing sister who also happens to be her best friend, a baby on the way and a husband who tells her things like: “Don’t be ridiculous, you goose, you know I’m bloody besotted with you.” when she’s feeling insecure.
Now, if only these people around her would stop acting like they know her!
I didn't hit my head and forget the last ten years of my life and so far I'm keeping my marriage together but it sure makes ya think twice.
Alice of course isn't very happy about the changes made in her life and through witty remarks and often hilarious mis-discoveries she works out what has happened to her in the past ten years (including 'meeting' her children for the 'first' time!).
What Alice Forgot, Makes me want to remember to become a better person by the time I'm 49.
I’m so glad I stuck with this book to the end, because it was definitely a conclusion that left me hopeful and encouraged after the long, challenging journey that Alice went through to get her memory back.The writing is clever as it covers the events in the third person, but intermittently includes journal entries and letters written by the MC’s sister, Elisabeth, and her adopted grandmother, Frannie, which do a great job of offering a different perspective.
One of the book credits state this story is a romantic comedy and at times I asked myself, “Are they serious?” What’s so funny and comedic about Alice’s situation?
If I were to forget the last ten years of my life, and wake up with no memory of those ten years.....what would I regret?
What would surprise me?
What would make me proud?
Which relationships have changed for the better, which ones have changed for the worst?
This book really made me think.
I liked so much about this book.
I love a happy ending.
I liked the letters that Frankie wrote Phil.
I liked the letters Elizabeth wrote her therapist.
I loved Elizabeth.
I love how the story was told through the different perspectives.
How fun to be lost in a book!
Some of those changes bring friction along in a suitcase that won’t stay closed.Alice has an accident with some exercise equipment that throws her for a loop right away.
To her frosty husband, to her children, to her neighbours – it seems there were very few people that she hadn’t offended or upset or hurt somehow.This story is about how Alice’s “younger self” decides she is going to change what the future looks like so that when her memory returns, everything will be back to normal again.
I had loved "The Husband's Secret," and sometimes it's difficult for an author to write another equally successful novel.
Thanks to this author, Alice was always amazingly fresh in my mind, every time I would start reading again.
If that isn't difficult enough to have to struggle with, she has three children who were born during those lost years, and she finds out she is divorcing the husband she adores.All the other characters in this novel contributed greatly to the storyline.
Moriarty had me cheering for them, also.I thought the concept of losing the last ten years of your life made a very fascinating storyline.
Pedestrian. The writing, the story, the characters all just too pedestrian. There was nothing that lifted this book in to the realm of interesting, or even 'mildly interesting'. It's the sort of book I keep in the glove compartment of my car. I know I'm never going to read it but there is always the possibility (view spoiler)[especially with the vehicles I drive (hide spoiler)] of being stuck with a broken-down truck or a road block with nothing to read. That sort of book.Not one star because I didn't hate it. Two stars because it was b-o-r-i-n-g.
Alice appears to be a popular name for book titles: Alice in Wonderland; Go Ask Alice; Still Alice; and now, What Alice Forgot.
This one fell on the wayside as I thought I had already read the “Alice" book.
She doesn't like the woman she has become and has been given a chance to change the direction of her life: Back to the way it was when her relationships made sense and didn't get lost in the frenzied life of minutia.
The jigsaw comes together for the reader through the structure Moriarty uses: Alice is the main POV but cleverly Moriarty gives us a fuller story through her sister's letters to her psychologist and her Grandmother’s writings.
The concept was interesting with a little mystery to it as well.Alice has a fall at the gym and loses her memory of the last 10 years.
I really enjoyed how the story was told through Alice's eyes as I learned how she has changed and also the people around her as she pieces the events of the last 10 years together.
She remembers the people around her and their situations as they were 10 years ago and given little clues which creates the mystery of how the events of their lives have changed and shaped who they are today.
What Alice Forgot by Liane Moriarty was not and enjoyable or satisfying read for me.I found this book over written and very repetitive and to be honest I struggled to finish it.There was so many times in this book that I wanted to scream as Alice just seemed to round and round in circles and I felt this book could have been wrapped up in 250 pages.
It took me three weeks to finish this one and I am very glad to move on to something more rewarding.
Aussie Book challenge 2011 #7What Alice Forget, tells the story of a women who thinks it's the year 1998, about to have her first child and is happily married to her husband, Nick.
How would you feel if you realized that you may not like yourself very much and question what you've become?For Alice Love, lossing her memory might just be the best thing that's ever happened to her.This my friends, is a sensational book!Liane Moriarty truely has written such a brilliant book!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 Stars and rounding up. ^^^^^ I know, right? I bet you never would have expected that out of me! I’d blame it on my period, but I wasn’t buddy reading with Aunt Flo. Maybe I hit my head like Alice. *shrug* Whatever the reason, I just loved this story.What Alice Forgot is about . . . .  “The day Alice Mary Love went to the gym and carelessly misplaced a decade of her life.”  Actually, it happened in spin class but Swifty eating it on
I’d blame it on my period, but I wasn’t buddy reading with Aunt Flo. Maybe I hit my head like Alice.
“The day Alice Mary Love went to the gym and carelessly misplaced a decade of her life.”
Actually, it happened in spin class but Swifty eating it on the treadmill makes me laugh real loud.When Alice wakes up she discovers 10 years of her life missing.
With her memory misplaced, Alice decides to take the bull by the horns and get her old life – and more importantly her husband – back, but she’ll have to navigate her way through co-parenting in the interim .
4.5 stars!
It highlighted just how complex are the factors that contribute to the dissolution of a marriage, how easy it is to become caught up in the fixation on the negative, how terribly difficult it is to forgive ("[Forgiveness] was such a lovely, generous idea when it wasn't linked to something awful that needed forgiving."), and how the pain we experience forms our characters ("It wasn't just that her memories of the last ten years were back.
But we can't forget it, except in a fantasy like this novel; that pain has left its mark, and only time can ease it, allowing a new character to form yet again—at best, we can achieve a balance, but how do we even do that?
Thirty nine year old Alice has had an unfortunate fall at her gym and ‘lost’ ten years of her life. When she comes around she’s convinced she’s a slightly over weight twenty nine year old with a severe exercise aversion – what’s going on!What happens from this point is told from several points of view: 1) We see it from Alice’s point of view, experiencing recollections and revaluations as she does.2) We hear extracts from a journal compiled by Alice’s sister, Elizabeth, in which she documents he
I wanted to know what had happened in the missing ten years and, moreover, as Alice started to learn and recall some of the missing detail I loved the way that she appraised it with her twenty nine year old mind and personality.
It’s a difficult trick to pull off but as Alice absorbs the changes to her life and the key events of the missing period she struggles to understand how she could have become the person everyone is telling her she is now.
And while a premise like that could get complicated and messy ~ it didn't ~ it's written so effortlessly with that genius Moriarty touch where all the plot threads come together just so cleverly.It's not just the concept that had me falling COMPLETELY in love with this book.It was pretty much EVERYTHING that has me gushing about it:The writing.
But whereas Kinsella's is commercial, stereotypical rom-com (a fun, guilty-pleasure kind of read), What Alice Forgot is gorgeously written, and a story that will resonate.I really couldn't put this book down and I love it hard.Liane Moriarty is my favourite chick-lit type writer.
Liane Moriarty has done for Australia, what Maeve Binchy did for Ireland.
She was in the process of a divorce, her friend Gina passed away, she had a relationship with a new man, and did not know her three children from Adam.
Their mother became a champion salsa dancer, marrying a man both sisters, and practically the whole community, had some social issues with.
Many characters fill up the colorful background to the mystery of Gina's death, Elisabeth's bizarre actions and Alice's crave for perfection.
The moral of the story is that you should use stilettos to catch a man, and use stilettos to get rid of him afterwards if you want to.
What DID Alice forget?
And none of the people from her past like her anymore including her sister or husband!
Hmmmm....While this all seems a bit trite when written this way, the book itself actually is quite marvelous.
As Alice tries to rediscover herself and her memories, she learns a great deal about why she changed over the years, the events that led to those changes and how they affected all of those around her including, or most especially, her sister, Elizabeth.
In a sense, this is a lot like "It's a Wonderful Life" as Alice learns to appreciate her old self once more.
Miracles in DisguiseErrare Humanum Est cos we are supposed to evolve from mystakes.
However, the evolution process requires at least once in a while, we'll keep consciousness loud and clear ;)Still, when consciousness tends to remain in a long sleeping mode, one mystake leads to another and they'll soon gather in a snowball that will definitely melt into a swamp of problems claiming to be solved.
And there we are, swimming and diving, hardly keeping our heads above, fighting for oxygen....When these sorts of chaos take over, accidents usually drop by.
Clever and funny.As with all of Moriarty's books, this one's filled with very rich, fully-developed characters.
They are just so wonderfully relatable, so very, very real.
I knew I liked this author when I was laughing out loud by page 3.
I've since read 'The Husband's Secret' and 'Big Little Lies', but this was my first introduction to Moriarty, and this was the book that made me a fan.Moriarty has a very special ability to cover serious issues and suspenseful situations, while simultaneously making you laugh out loud for comic relief.
This one's a great read.
The story centers around Alice, a woman on the cusp of her fortieth birthday, who takes a serious tumble, and hits her head hard enough to cause severe memory loss… ten years of lost memories to be exact.
A lot can happen in ten years, and for Alice it’s confusing, heartbreaking, scary, and sad.
The other story regarding Alice and Elizabeth’s adopted grandmother was also poignant and sweet, but I do wish we had been given more one on one conversation with her, instead of merely reading her thoughts via letters written to an old beau who died many years ago.
My favorite Moriarty book so far. Smarter and more thought provoking than the later novels I have read. It really made me think about who I was and who I've become. If you could have a do-over for the last ten years of your life, what would happen? What would you decide? An enjoyable, lighter read for me at the right time.
I'm normally not a big fan of amnesia story lines because they give me anxiety as it feels like torture having to wait for the person to eventually recall their memories.
However, I gave this book a shot because I loved The Husband's Secret  and Big Little Lies and thankfully, this turned out to be an enjoyable read.
In reality the year is 2008, Alice has three children, and is in the process of divorcing her husband.
There was one thing though I did not care for involving a story line that gets wrapped up at the end of the book.
Alice fell into that quirky and slightly air-brained female role that we see everywhere these days: books, films, tv shows, You know, that girl who is different and whimsical in an entirely unrealistic way.
"Old Alice" was like that for me.
Sure her light-hearted way of thinking about the world was cute and funny, but it became old and irritating fast.
Moriarty does give us a bit of a rational for why "New Alice" did some of the things she did in the scene where her memory flooded back, but not much.
Great story, great characters, great plot! What an enjoyable page-turner that made me think. Liked this one more than Moriarty's two recent novels. 4.5★stars!
Set in Australia during 2008, What Alice Forgot tells the story of thirty-nine year old Alice Love.
Alice wakes up thinking it's the year 1998 and she's 29 years old, she's madly in love with her husband Nick and they're about to have their first child!
Alice discovers her life has changed dramatically but sees it from the point of view of her twenty-nine year old, carefree, fun loving self.
The novel made me think about how my own life has changed in the last ten years and what would the "me" of ten years ago think of the person I am now?
I read this book! Its fun!!!!!!!! Where is the 'missing' review --(haha--again). Help, Iris?? lol (Iris has found at least 3 of my past reviews)...I was looking another GR's member's review --when I noticed this book again!Don't you think its a 'little' funny that a person could get hurt on a SPIN bike in the gym?I mean -my husband had a serious accident -Mountain biking last year --(but I think its safe to say --he would not have had a head concussion from a spin bike) --hm??? but you never know...This is one of my favorite Liane Moriarty books!

What Alice Forgot completes the list of Liane Moriarty novels to read.
To be honest, I've been tired of that old memory loss trope, but I got over it very quickly, because of Moriarty's brilliant writing, relatable characters and thought-provoking situations.Imagine hitting your head and not remembering the last ten years of your life.
When her sister, Elizabeth, tells her that she's separated from Nick and that she's a mother of three she's flabbergasted.
The situation with Nick, her husband, is strained, there's a lot of animosities, that Alice can't remember or comprehend.
This book and I just had a very lovely afternoon together. Lying in the sun reading ... there's nothing better.
