https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1225261.No_Time_for_Goodbye
Cynthia Bigge, a fourteen year old girl is drug home one night by her father after he catches her drinking and making out with a much older boy.
Fast forward 25 years, Cynthia Bigge...
Cynthia struggles daily with her life as she tries to cope with her background.
Now a strange car starts showing up, Cynthia believes she has seen her brother, and notes appear in the house...
Terry, Cynthia, and Grace, their eight year old spunky daughter go on one hell of an adventure to figure out what happened 25 years ago and how it is affecting them all today.
I gave this book five stars simply for entertainment value. It was almost like watching a film, the characters came to life and the whole book was great fun to read - who cares if the plot was a little implausable. It's not the sort of book you'll want to keep and read again but enjoy it as a fast food treat. If you read it over a weekend as I did, beware, you might not get much else done.
But Cynthia is permanently scarred by what happened and she's living with the damage, which is affecting her marriage and her 8-year-old daughter, who is overprotected by Cynthia.But now strange things are happening.
Cynthia is getting strange e-mails, letters, and calls.
And people are getting murdered......This book had a solid, interesting story - but Linwood Barclay is no Jeff Abbott, in my opinion.
Barclay could have done a better job on making me care for his MCs. The book is narrated by Terry - Cynthia's husband.
They specialize in this kind of fast-paced thriller novel.
Cynthia finds herself abandoned by her family one day, she’s woken up one day and they’ve simply vanished.
The story continues on the 25th anniversary of Cynthia’s disappearance, when she has a family of her own and is desperate to find out exactly what happened.
I liked this book, not loved, I can actually see this review is a little flat!
Looks like I should review by books straight after reading, I don’t have a lot to say about this one.
But in saying that, as I searched just now for this book to write up this review, I see there is a sequel.
if you can stand the "F" word every other page, sometimes many times in one page...then read this book. Its a lot of fun and really interesting. If I cared enough tho, I'd write the author and tell him how a)unnecessary and b)annoying it was to have to see that word over and over again. I know to some people its not an issue at all but to me..blech. The book was so good on its own, it didn't need it AT ALL.
I picked this one up because the description reminded me of Harlan Coben's books, but was disappointed. The first half of the book, in which Barclay set up his story, is more description than action. I found it pretty boring. No great writing here either. So many readers have commented on the mounting suspense in this book. I found none of that. I felt none of the shock or sense of dread that I usually get when I read a mystery/thriller. Two thirds into the book, I didn't care what actually happened to Cynthia's family. Forgettable and not recommended.
14 year-old girl wakes up to find her entire family gone, it had me at "hello".

I thoroughly enjoyed this book - it was written from the point of view of the woman's husband, and he takes you through the past, what little they know...starting with the 25th anniversary of her family's disappearance. About 1/3rd of the way through, you start to get pieces of the puzzle, but they throw in a lot of speculation about who could have done it. Parts of it kept me guessing right until the very end. LOVED this book!
Looking for a thriller that you don't want to put down?
I cannot imagine for even a second that my family would just disappear.
Knowing that, I can imagine how if that were to happen, how messed up I would be.
(And, yes, I know I already have issues --- these are not what I am referring to!) [return][return]The book is written primarily from Terry's, Cynthia's husband, point of view.
LOL [return][return]I read this book all today.
It was a perfect day for reading and the perfect book as I didn't want to put it down.
So fourteen year old Cynthia has a huge fight with her dad and goes to bed, the next morning she wakes up to find her father, mother and brother have vanished, no note, no nothing. The cars are gone and so are they.Move forward years and Cynthia is married with an 8 year old and still has no idea what happened to her family. All of a sudden things start happening and  Told from the perspective of Cynthia's husband so you never know if Cynthia is involved, if she's nuts. It was a really great mys
So fourteen year old Cynthia has a huge fight with her dad and goes to bed, the next morning she wakes up to find her father, mother and brother have vanished, no note, no nothing.
The cars are gone and so are they.Move forward years and Cynthia is married with an 8 year old and still has no idea what happened to her family.
All of a sudden things start happening and
Told from the perspective of Cynthia's husband so you never know if Cynthia is involved, if she's nuts.
It was a really great mystery, very well told.
Grabbed this book on a whim as I was dashing out the door to the airport.
It ended up being an entertaining read for the plane ride to Panama.
Barclay's take on what happened to the family is not extraoridnary but neither is it boring.
I was able to figure out who did what before the end of the book but that was not a bad thing.
I hadn't realised this would be the locale when grabbing the book.
Barclay has a series featuring science-fiction author Zack Walker.
She seemed to be enjoying the sun, the water and the book!
The book begins with look back 25 years into the past when then 14 year old wild child Cynthia wakes up the morning after she had been found making out and drinking in a car with an older boy by her dad Clayton.
Fast forward 25 years and Cynthia is married to high school English teacher Terry and is the mom of 8 year old Grace.
We are also to believe that while he lived in New York with Enid and Jeremy, he also maintained a household in Connecticut with Patricia and their 2 kids Todd and Cynthia using fake ID.
Todd looks just like Clayton and also Enid's own son Jeremy.
My second Barclay book. This one is slow-moving and detail oriented. I stayed with it even though I didn't like it as much as A Tap on the Window It is difficult to write much without giving a spoiler. However, there is one character that I thought was unbelievable--didn't seem real. I began to figure out the solution, but didn't get it all; so it was good until the very end.
I liked this one a lot. The best part is that I can read the next one No Safe House right away.
I'll admit I don't normally read this type of thriller, but a colleague of mine lent this to me and I was hooked. I flew through the book in about a day and a half (one of the benefits of calling in sick). Definitely enough twists to keep you guessing and make you wonder just what was going to happen at the end. I'll have to check out another one of Barclay's books now.
Very unexpected, at times very humorous, this book offered something essential: the need to keep reading until I knew what had happened. The characters, especially the daughter, were very well-defined and I cared about what happened to them
An excellent novel from one of my favourite writers.He writes such good original stories that have strong characters and believable plots.
Very disappointing. It started off well intended with novel ideas. But when you have absolutely no substance to the characters who gives a f*ck? And then to lose all integrity to the mystery by copping out to the most predictable of outcomes, really?! It's like eating a spoiled peanut. You wanted and expected it to be good but once you bit into it SOUR!
Twenty-five years later, the mystery of just what happened to them remains unsolved, leading Cynthia to agree to a segment on a popular reality show in the hopes of finding a few answers about the past that haunts her.Following the show's airing, a series of mysterious events begins to occur including a mysterious car following her daughter, a fedora just like her father's showing up in the house and the suspicious death of a family member after talking to a private eye Cynthia hired to give her some closure.
For one thing, the story is told from her husband's point of view, allowing us little or not access into what Cynthia thinks or feels beyond the prologue establishing the events.
Because this book had rave reviews, I feel justified in launching into a few criticisms.1.The first person narrator is a high school English teacher yet he insists on colloquialisms (or just plain bad grammar) such as, "Me and Grace went to the store." (Not an actual quote but close.) 2.
3. Clearly the book was written for the movie version which means there's a lot of fast action with little attention to subtlety.
Why,you might ask, am I reading a thriller if I want subtlety?
The reason the ending is surprising is because it's improbable not because it's surprising.Still, it was a pretty engaging book.
About 3.67 stars. :D Couldn't quite go all the way to 4.
I had a few minor issues with it – which I’m going to get to in a minute – and it wasn’t as fast paced as I anticipated but all in all, it was a gripping novel full of twists and turns and with a touching ending.Before I go even further, I have to warn you that this book is not for those people who get easily put off by the constant use of swear words.
Her family - father, mother and brother - having disappeared without so much as a note.
I also found Terry and Cynthia unrealistic - for instance Cynthia, an understandably over-protective mother, abandons her daughter without a second thought in the middle of a crowded shopping mall to chase a man who looks like her long lost brother.
All the law enforcement characters are brusque, unsympathetic and incompetent.The anti-climactic conclusion, much like the book, drags on for much too long.
Many of the characters, especially Cynthia and Terry, swear like young teenagers out of the house and testing their foul mouth chops for the first time.
There is no time to smell the roses along the way: the plot plows through, but not with as much expense to character development as you would find with many thrillers.
Even though the development comes mainly through dialogue, it is sufficient enough to care enough about them to see the story through.The premise is excellent: a 14 year old girl wakes one morning to find her family has disappeared.
Neither did my girlfriend, and she can always figure these things out.From what I can gather, most of his books are of the "domestic thriller" variety, where things happen to ordinary people.
Tinha grandes expectativas em relação a este livro e… As Personagens A adolescente rebelde que uma manhã acorda e descobre que pai, mãe e irmão tinham desaparecido. A adulta irritante que, anos depois, os procura;O marido - a personagem simpática da história - que tudo arrisca na tentativa de encontrar a verdade;Mais uns familiares, amigos e conhecidos para enfeitar e justificar o desenvolvimento do assunto.  O Enredo Um crime, um rapto? O costume;O culpado? Isso é que não me convenceu lá muito
Tinha grandes expectativas em relação a este livro e…
A adulta irritante que, anos depois, os procura;O marido - a personagem simpática da história - que tudo arrisca na tentativa de encontrar a verdade;Mais uns familiares, amigos e conhecidos para enfeitar e justificar o desenvolvimento do assunto.
Isso é que não me convenceu lá muito bem.
Gostei da forma como a história é contada, alimentando-me a curiosidade em querer saber o que aconteceu, e assim, impedindo qualquer tentação de desistir da leitura.
Eu não lhe achei grande piada, mas quem o tiver na estante não necessita de o despachar…
Cook published a book called Mortal Memory, in which a young man comes home from school to find his mother and sister murdered, and his father gone.
No Time for Goodbye was published in 2007, and the premise is a fourteen year old girl goes to bed drunk, wakes up to find her entire family missing.
The first part goes well enough, with all the proper foreshadowing mystery readers expect, and live for in our books.
I would have had an easier time believing "The People Under the Stairs" was true, than believing the ultimate premise of this book.I offer no spoilers in case others want to read it, and might not find it as silly as I did.
An ever thickening plot, the mystery deepens with every turn of the page. Don't read this book at night if you have to get up early the next morning. Nearly impossible to set down. Even after you set it down and turn out the lights to go to sleep, your mind is a whirlwind of Sherlockian thoughts keeping you awake. Great read. Highly recommended.
WOW! what a story. This book kept me guessing right up to the end. I was so shocked when the truth finally came out. Awesome suspense.
If you read No Time for Goodbye by Linwood Barclay before you go to bed, your mind will keep you awake trying to solve this intriguing mystery.
Even though I was able to piece together some of the bits of this puzzle about why the family of a 14-year-old girl, Cynthia Bigge, vanished in the middle of the night without a trace, the whole picture did not come together for me until the very end.Most of the book focuses on that girl 25 years later, married to Terry Archer.
Terry begins to question his wife’s sanity and even wonders whether she has instigated these odd incidents.
