https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/502536.They_Knew_Mr_Knight
She is cross when Thomas assumes decision-making power about Douglas' schooling on the basis that he's the man; she makes her points, but doesn't dare be really firm.In such an environment, it's no wonder that the childless women come across as sad, unfulfilled and, in the case of neighbour Mrs Greene, an unpleasant busy-body, loathed by all.However, when times are tough, it is Celia (and to some extent, Ruth) who is the strength of the family.Growing Pains - Parenting TeensCelia, struggles to understand each of her children and react appropriately to the challenges that arise with each, letting them make their own mark - and mistakes - but hating the hurt that sometimes resulted.
It deals with morality in a way that is old-fashioned these days, and yet there is something so bracing and reassuring about it.*Thomas Blake is the head of the family - not just his own, which consists of wife Celia and three children (Freda, Ruth and Douglas), but also his widowed mother and his two middle-aged siblings.
The novel is set in the mid to late 1920s, so anyone who knows their history will see the shadow of World War I in the recent past and the shadow of the long 1930s Depression looming in the near future.*Celia, Thomas's wife, is the central character of the story - and I think one's emotional involvement in the book derives largely from feeling an affinity with her way of thinking.
I myself find her stories compulsively readable, but unfortunately for me, each novel of hers that I've read thus far (this was my fourth) has been progressively less delightful and more depressing than the last!This one concerns Thomas Blake, a decent hardworking and harassed man who can barely make ends meet supporting his wife and three children, in addition to a second household consisting of an aging mother, spinster sister and dissolute brother.
Following Mr. Knight's advice on this and other matters, Thomas' family becomes wealthier and more socially prominent, to the delight of his children and the unease of his wife Celia, who had always been perfectly happy with their modest lifestyle and her small garden.
The story of Faust is such a universal one. This version takes place in the Midlands of England, wherethe uber-wealthy Mr. Knight tempts people with promises of wealth and power. No spoilers necessary - you know how it will end, yet Whipple's characters command attention and sympathy even as they careen towards ruin.
Persephone publish 5 Dorothy Whipple books, four novels and one book of short stories, and it is easy to see why, her writing of families and their ups and downs their triumphs and disasters is brilliant.
This is the third of the four novels re-published by Persephone that I have read.
Celia is an innocent, a housewife and mother who knows nothing of finance, and understands even less.
She is however a steadfast and true woman who supports her husband, and her children in everything, and she knows enough to dislike Mr Knight.
But, she has a way of writing that makes me want to read on and on.
I really feel for the characters.Mr. Knight is a wealthy businessman who befriends Mr. Blake who is married with 3 children.
Blake is just making it and is enticed by Knight's ability to steer him into better economic means.
Blake and his family move up and up, but in the end have to face the cruel consequences of wanting too much.
Enchanted from the first chapter on, I felt connected to these characters and looked forward every evening to reading about them and their lives.
I was deeply moved by Miss Whipple's description of Celia's spiritual journey and I was in tears by the end of the book.
Not tears of sadness but that wonderful feeling you get when an author beautifully captures an experience that you didn't think could be put into words.
Miss Whipple did put it into words and they are lovely.This is a treausre.
A book that you could read again and again and still find new aspects to cherish.
I originally gave this four stars. However, the sublime and wholly unexpected turn of the tale at its conclusion was truly remarkable.
He first made his manager, Joseph Simpson, a partner, and later, as Thomas was about to enter them from school, he sold the works outright to Simpson for a ridiculously small sum.Thomas, at seventeen, felt a chagrin bitter beyond his years..." Douglas, constantly caught up with his chemistry experiments, needs a good university education, and Freda, scorning the teaching or secretarial careers held out to her, desires to become part of the upper class: "Mr. Knight was so rich, he had a magnificent car, a lovely house, and no children.
Another classic from Dorothy Whipple and the wonders of Persphone Books.
I sometimes hit or miss with DW but this time I really enjoyed this family saga of when the devil - Mr Knight - comes to town and leads the family Blake down the path of sin - who will surcome?
And a hulk of a book.
But it is a great read nevertheless.
Great characters given the time to develop and 'hang' themselves as the plot decrees.
Superb dialogue, really of its time.
It is a great example of a well written novel and how they did it then.
I can't get past 25% on this one. I suppose it didn't help that I moved house at the same time as starting it! Now I've lost the thread completely, so I'm putting it on pause and will try again some time in the future.
What a fascinating read this was!
These topics may now be considered deeply unfashionable as the theme of a novel but the afterword has sent me back to read The Towers of Trebizond by Rose Macauley afresh.
I am also reminded of the spiritual journeys undertaken by Elizabeth Goudge's characters, but somehow there is more grit in Dorothy Whipple's mill.One small 'sin', stepping in to a first class railway carriage with a third class ticket, sets in motion a whole series of events which lead to the downfall of the family and prison.

They had lived in the Grove, holding together.’ Whipple examines what happens when the ordinary collides with the extraordinary: a chance encounter between Mr Blake and the infamous financier Mr Knight.Celia and Tom Blake are middle-aged, with three teenage children: Freda, 17, Ruth, 15, and Douglas, 13.
However, Tom and Celia Blake are portrayed as a close, loving couple, who may not be rich in material possessions, but are happy with each other and their ordinary lives.Enter Mr Knight, charming multi-millionaire (and, as we later discover, fraudster) financier.What ensues is a pact-with-the-devil story.
Such great characters. Very readable. Moralistic, but not in a bad way.
This is an excellent book, typical of Whipple in its exquisite attention to detail of character and sensitivity to nuances of class and social function.
Readers steeped in the King James Bible and Book of Common Prayer will particularly appreciate the subtlety with which language is used to weave a spiritual foundation for a largely secular story--but this isn't a preachy book; it comes from a humanist perspective.
Readers unfamiliar with English social structure may be at a bit of a loss with this book, as much of the tension arises from people both deliberately and accidentally straying from their "place."
It's like a cross between Someone at a Distance and The Priory.
It didn't feel enough like a book with its own identity and reality.
I never really believed in the Mr Knight storyline, and generally menacing her people and bringing them up and down is what Whipple does best.
I think one of the keys to Whipple's ability to engage the reader is that she's convincing about what makes people both happy and unhappy, and what those states feel like.
It's present here, certainly, just in a lesser degree and more clumsily executed than some of the author's other books.
This is the story of an middle class English family who fall under the influence of a bigger than life financier. It is also morality tale about the corrupting effects of greed and is as relevant today as it was when it was published in 1934.This is the 5th Dorothy Whipple book I have read, and it is certainly one of her best. She creates very sympathetic characters, particularly women, and compelling plots. I can never put her books down and finish them with a regret that I have come to the end of another absorbing story.
After finishing John Lanchester’s family memoir I couldn’t find anything that looked like a worthy follow-up, so I reread Miss Buncle’s Book (fun!) and then turned to this Persephone, which I’ve been hoarding for at least a year. It was a vivid and engrossing read, though it took a brief and unexpected turn toward the religious at the very end, alas, after several hundred pages of satisfyingly concrete storytelling.
I was a little weary of this book due to its size, but it is surprisingly readable and addicting. I will admit that I was very nervous for the family as I continued reading because I just kept waiting for them to topple. For this reason, as I neared the middle and last third of the book, I kept having to put it down and think to myself "Do I want to see them fall yet?" and put off reading it until I felt I was ready for it.
This like all Whipple's books was eminently readable...however throughout, I got the feeling I was reading Trollope's "The Way We Live Now", a book I enjoyed tremendously...both books deal with the rise and fall of families greedy for money, but Trollpoe's title makes his book timeless, it is we who create our own destinies...Whipple puts the tragedy of her book squarely on the shoulders of Mr. Knight.
Great read by a long ago British author. Found her through a cousin of mine who has quiet a library at his home. This book may take place in the years leading up to 1934 but it is a cautionary tale that has not lost it's punch over the decades. Have a few more Whipple books in my stack, looking forward to them!
Despite major foreshadowing throughout the novel, and scenes heavily reminiscent of her prior novel, High Wages, it was worth reading to see how the specifics would play out. The character development was a little hit or miss (Douglas was definitely under-developed in his arc), but still a good novel.
This story could so have been written today.To speculate and to end up losing it all.We all want the good life but it comes at a cost.Dorothy Whipple writes so well and I enjoyed this one.I'm so glad that Persephone have re printed a few of her wonderful books.Good that a new generation can enjoy them.I couldn't put it down.
Dorothy Whipple is a CRAZY good novelist. Seriously. She gets into the minds and hearts of her characters so completely; everything they do and say rings true. This isn't my favorite of her books -- I'd say Because of the Lockwoods is -- but I've yet to read a bad novel by her. I think every budding novelist should read her to learn how to make normal people so darn compelling.
I wasn't sure about this one at first, but it grew on me. Set in an industrial town in 1930s northern England, it describes the effects on an ordinary middle-class family when the father begins to speculate in increasingly shady financial dealings.
What struck me really is the brilliant way Whipple weaves the nuances of all the different relationships within the family. How each member copes with the circumstances surrounding their rise from poverty to privilege and back again to destitution.I LOVED it:)
Dorothy Whipple is now one of my favorite writers.
I love Persephone Books and this one did not disappoint.
Can't go wrong with Dorothy Whipple. A great storyteller. This one is hard to put down.
