https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295619.Helen_Keller_s_Teacher
Little Annie Sullivan grew up on her cousin's tobacco farm because her mother had died and her father couldn't take care of her and her siblings.
Alice, the mother, and Jimmy developed tuberculosis.
Annie would spend her whole life in various degrees of bad vision.
Since no one could control her or pay for little Jimmy's treatments, they were sent to the Tewksbury.
Eventually Annie got to go to school but her life was never easy.
Annie transformed Helen from a spoiled confused child into a college graduate and professional writer.
Annie Sullivan could, that's who.
Summary:The story begins when Annie Sullivan, as a young girl, is being sent away, along with her younger brother, Jimmie, because her relatives can no longer care for them.
One of the guests there knew of a doctor who may be able to help her, and, after two more operations on her eyes, she could see.
After graduation, she was offered a job as governess to deaf/blind/mute Helen Keller.
Helen Keller was also the second deaf/blind/mute person in history to learn to speak with her mouth.
It also tells how Annie Sullivan taught Helen Keller to communicate.
This is one of those books that gives you hope.
If you don't know the story of Helen Keller, you should check this out - however even if you do know the story of Helen Keller, this is still worth a read.
Above all I'd say that this is a story of hope, courage and stubbornness - on both sides - and also one of love and friendship.
I spotted it on my 'read' list and thought I'd pop in a review, because it really is one of those books that's heartwarming and deserves recognition.
This book gave great insight into what Annie Sullivan's lifewas like and how her background helped her to serve HelenKeller for so long. She had a very difficult young life bothwith her family experiences, poverty, and health issues.Annie's life experiences in the poor house with other vision-impairedwomen helped her understand how to teach Helen Keller and howto encourage Helen to reach out of her quiet, dark world.
I did a report on Helen Keller, so when I saw this book at my aunt's house, I thought "since I know about Helen Keller, it would be fun to learn about her teacher, too!" I was right about that! I loved learning about the troubles and successes. Thanks for this great book, Margaret Davidson!
When someone died, their body would be reeled off into the deadhouse until their funeral.As time passed, Annie's eyes got worse and worse and Jimmy's hip grew so bad it pained him to stand up on his crutches and turn over in bed.
One of the men took pity on her and agreed for her to be sent to school.As Annie grew up she understood what it was like to be blind.
It was a job offer to teach a deaf, blind, mute girl named Helen Keller.Annie didn't really want to, but what other choice did she have?
I think if you wanted to read this book, take in your idea as an excellent one!Annie Sullivan was only a little girl when she became almost fully blind.
Because she still had Jimmie.The little children had nowhere to play, for nurses and important people were crowded round the corridors, and many bustling matrons were always shooing them out of all the rooms.
Whether this room was covered in spiders and cobwebs, and moreover, had dead people in it before they were taken away, the children were only slightly scared of it, and it was the only way where they could communicate privately, without being heard.Jimmie, and Annie, but especially Jimmie, was getting worse.
The author, who also skillfully wrote biographies of Helen Keller and Louis Braille, clearly outlined the early life of Annie Sullivan.
After her mother died from tuberculosis, her father continued to drink, and her relatives had enough of her unruliness, she and her brother Jimmie were sent to a poor house.
Jimmie died there, but Annie was eventually sent as a charity student to a school for blind children.
Annie also had numerous eye surgeries when at the poor house and at the blind school, and she regained some sight.
Once Helen Keller entered the story, Annie took backstage as Helen's ongoing teacher and supporter.
Also, Annie's marriage is not mentioned in the book.
Many children may be familiar with the story of Helen Keller but few probably know that her teacher, Annie Sullivan, had to overcome great adversity in her life as well.
This simple biography begins with Annie’s life before she became Helen’s teacher.
Though living in the poorhouse was harsh and Annie suffered great loss there as well, the reader will witness Annie’s tenacious spirit as she begs to be educated.
Much like the story of Helen Keller, Annie Sullivan’s is one that exemplifies the idea that one can achieve anything by working hard and striving for what you want despite adversity and hardship of any kind.
Most books focus on the life and achievements of Helen Keller. This one describes the life and achievements of the remarkable woman who brought Helen Keller out of her darkness by drawing upon her own experiences and struggles. I read this book with a group of my third graders, and even though some of it might have been above their reading level, they were really into this book and enjoyed learning about Annie Sullivan.
I really enjoyed sharing Annie Sullivan's story with my girls. Annie & Helen's stories are remarkable. Though the first part is sad as we learn about Annie's hard childhood, it is encouraging to see her rise above it & make something of her life. Then she goes on to reach out to Helen & help her climb out of her "no world". She will not except limitations that others would impose. A story of overcoming the odds, this is well worth the read.
The story of Helen Keller's Teacher is one that introduces students to the lives of Anne Sullivan and Helen Keller. Hellen Keller had a hard childhood struggling with her disabilities. Anne Sullivan believed in Helen Keller's abilities, and fought hard to help her overcome her disabilities. This story is a great way to discuss living with a disability and overcoming obstacles. It is also a good book for discussing the idea of never giving up, and believing in people.
This book was probably the first non-fairytale book I've read and I'm glad I did. The story was beautiful. I liked the book so much and it made me realize in such a tender age that I wanted to read as much book as I can and maybe own a library someday! The devotion, compassion and patience of the teacher were admirable. The friendship and respect they've built were truly remarkable.This is one of the books I would want to read to my future children.
I was pleased to find a book about Annie Sullivan rather than Helen Keller. It held some interesting points in their relationship and it didn't represent Annie as a stern teacher through the whole book.I liked it. At some points in the book it was dark, and maybe even depressing, but reading along with a character overcoming all to succeed is always nice in the end, right?~Simone
This book is often dismissed because it is always in the childrens section. No one should be wrong about it. It is a beautiful new way to see ourselves from the point of view of a person with a set of great disabilities, led by a woman who was not perfect, was disabled also, and managed to work a miracle. This is a must read for all ages.
This book is often dismissed because it is always in the children´s section. No one should be wrong about it. It is a beautiful new way to see ourselves from the point of view of a person with a set of great disabilities, led by a woman who was not perfect, was disabled also, and managed to work a miracle. This is a must read for all ages.
This book introduced me to the "other side of the story," which was amazing. I'm so glad I know, so I have more knowledge and can appreciate. Also, Scholastic Biographies. We copied down a lot of other titles that were mentioned in the back of the book, and probably next will read the actual Helen Keller biography. Thanks to the gal who recommended this to us!
Someone dies, so it might be a little freaky and extremely sad for a kid, but my nine year old daughter and I read this together after she made a goal to try some non-fiction books. She loved it! It was SO interesting. I've known the story of Helen for years, but Annie Sullivan's life was really interesting. Makes her work with Helen make more sense and have more meaning.
I LOVED this book when I read it and re-read it in third grade. I found Annie's story very emotional (with both highs and lows) and interesting, and I really felt like I could empathize with her. Her work with the blind, especially with the famous Hellen Keller was inspirational, and her story deserves to be known--and this book is a telling of it that's perfectly acceptable for younger readers.
Helen Keller's Teacher is one my favorite books. This is one of those books that built the foundation of my love for books. I love this story so much. You will be captivated by the story of Annie Sullivan, her struggle for survival and how amazing she is to be able to teach a child like Helen.This is probably one of the most inspiring and remarkable books ever written.
I really am interested in the Deaf. This is about a girl who lost her hearing and site as a baby. As her teacher led her into the world of signs her mind begins to open up and she becomes a young lady giving hope to many dissabled people.AngelaI went to the play after reading the book and it was right on with history. In one scraffle they had I got a pitcher of water dumped all over me:).
'Helen Keller's Teacher' is about the life of the teacher of Helen Keller. We probably all know Helen Keller - the little girl who was blind and deaf but could still communicate easily - but not as much her teacher. This book is kind of sweet, but the teacher's life is really sad. I liked it because it was cool to find out where Helen had learned it all.
This was my favorite book as a child, but it's probably been almost 20 years since I've read it again. I was reminded why it was my favorite book! Such a remarkable story. It's told simply, but powerfully. Hallie also just read it and loved it. Even though it's a children's novel, I think it will always be one of my favorites!
This story really is so interesting because, this teacher had to teach Helen Keller and Helen Keller was blind and couldn't hear and couldn't speak. The teacher didn't know what Helen Keller was thinking. Somehow she taught Helen Keller how to write and read. It's very interesting. I remember she taught Helen with water and I think she even taught her sign language.
To use a cliched term, this book was inspiring.Its supposed to be a kids' book, and it more or less is like one, and an excellent one at that.In short, its a difficult struggle adapted for childrens' minds, but that doesn't matter, I'm not that much of a kid anymore, and I thought it was excellent.
This wasn't my favorite book. I didn't really like it because it is non fiction (not my favorite genre). Plus I read it when I was in third grade. It about a girl named Helen Keller who is can't hear, can't talk, and can't see. Really sad, this book tells how she learned, how she knew things although she couldn't do so many things that we can do.
I first read this book about 35 years old. I was a little bit obsessed with the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan when I was a little girl. It is a beautiful story. I enjoyed it just as much this time.
This was one of the first books I ever read - really, my sister read it to me. I remember the book in vivid detail. It is the story of Anne Sullivan from her childhood until her breakthrough with Helen Keller. Fascinating.
UNBELIEVABLE!!!!After reading this everyone should be thankful that they can see hear talk and are living a normal life. our everyday problems are nothing and we complain. This book shows how blessed we really are.
I read this book many years ago. It is told from the point of view of Anne Sullivan, who taught Helen Keller and led her out of the imprisonment of her own mind. I remember it being a great story and I'd love to get hold of a copy to read to my kids.
Even though this book is geared for younger readers, it is a really good read. It leads readers interested into the world of Helen Keller who was an amazing person and the person behind that. Miss. Spitfire. Also known as no other than Anne Sullivan.
