https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233904.Searching_for_Caleb
But it also deals with all of her family who are somewhat puzzling, but overall endearing.
I especially loved reading about Justine's childhood and her finding a husband, but I didn't particularly care about her fortune telling present which I couldn't really relate to.
At the same time, I loved reading about some of the other characters in her family, and all in all that led to a bewildering, however alluring story.
This book was published in the 1980s, and while I don't see it as one of Tyler's strongest books, it was still worth a read and I definitely do recommend it.
In 1912, Caleb Peck walked away from his family and from Baltimore and was never heard of again.
If I could pass by the Salter Academy and look in the window and see him wave, or hear him play that foolish messy music of his on the piano in the parlor—if they could just give me back one little scrap of time, that's all I ask!"Any of us who has ever lost a loved one can relate to this quote—but how much more deeply would you feel if you believe that person is likely still alive?We know Anne Tyler for her mastery of showing us dysfunctional families.
I think this is the most beautifully written book I have ever read. I can open to any page and get drawn in. Bittersweet and inspiring.
After taking several deep deep breaths of that lovely and evocative “old books” smell, I knew I wanted to find an Anne Tyler novel to re-read on the way home.
There were several Anne Tyler selections (I own copies of ALL her books) and so I just closed my eyes and picked “Searching for Caleb”, which was published in 1975.
I didn’t read it for the first time until 1986, after having fallen in love with Tyler when “The Accidental Tourist” came out in 1985, after which I caught up on her older novels.
Whenever she saw one, she had an urge to tell the owner some scandalous fortune, loudly enough to be heard everywhere: 'The father of your next-to-last baby has run off with a cigar-smoking redhead.'" (Wonder what she'd tell the pantsuit nation!) While Tyler delves into expository writing and backstory in large portions of the novel, she employs a simple, yet dynamic technique to create drama--she has someone move.
What writers can take away from this technique is to simply let your characters live.
Let characters play solitary, let them go to the diner, let them write letters, and when it's time for drama, let one of them move away or take off.
I read this as I finished the final rewrites for my book that is now called Love and Other Impossible Pursuits. Anne Tyler is a perfect role model for me as a writer. High aspirations are good for a person. I liked this book very much, despite the fact that the main character is a fortune-teller. I usually hate free spirits, and I was afraid she'd be one. But she was significantly less of a twit than I had feared.
There is a lot of action, and there is a definable plot in the form of a high-fantasy adventure quest, but what Eddings does that I love so much is that he populates the story with funny, lively characters and then throws them into 'moments' that really have nothing whatsoever to do with the bigger quest but which have everything to do with who those people are.
And Tyler, like Eddings, gives us amazingly rich characters full of humor and sadness and shows us how those people cope with those random moments.In some ways, Searching for Caleb is reminiscent of a John Irving story.
Her characters are more stereotypical and the plot less complex and more predictable than her later books.However, i did enjoy her portrayal of the repressed Brahmin WASP Baltimore family who allowed no one out of the family and rarely allowed anyone in -- an occasional similar wife might be an exception.
Unknown to him, for many years Daniel and his grandaughter, Justine, have been following many leads to find him.
Justine is another family rebel, although she was lured away by her first cousin, Duncan, a real rebel.Despite this being not quite as developed as her later novels, the story and characers carried me along and i enjoyed it.
I decided to give Anne Tyler another try. I wasn't too thrilled with the book I read by her previously and thought now was a good time to try again. Nope. Same issue with this one that I had with the last one...somewhat interesting characters but not one I could really identify with or like, and a story with no real forward movement.
I've read several books by Anne Tyler and I've enjoyed each and every one of them.
Her work stands out because of well-developed characters, her exceptional ability with the English language, and the fact that each of her books has a personality all its own.
This early work is probably the best Tyler I've read so far.
Daniel Peck, the patriarch of the family, is 91 years old.
Daniel lived his life in keeping with the expectations of the Pecks; Caleb, on the other hand, walked away from all that.
Not only that, but the man she marries leads a life very different from Peck family norms.
Una famiglia americana, i Peck di Baltimora, un clan alla Kennedy, legati dalle tradizioni che si trasmettono di generazione in generazione e soggetti alle convenzioni borghesi americane, una famiglia che sforna esemplari sempre uguali a sé stessi, che si ripetono di padre in figlio, sia nell’aspetto fisico che nelle abitudini di vita e nelle attività lavorative: i Peck sono avvocati da generazioni.All’interno di questa famiglia vi è uno strappo, uno dei suoi membri, Caleb, improvvisamente scompare: le vicende narrate nel libro si dipanano nell’affannata ricerca di Caleb Peck da parte di suo fratello Daniel, che per anni girerà l’America cercando le tracce labili che egli ha lasciato, al fine di ricondurlo nell’alveo familiare.
I didn't really connect with this book, and am still contemplating what the deeper meaning behind the story could be...On the surface, the story of a wacky, and in my mind, pitiful woman from a large, closed Baltimore family who marries her cousin and then spends her life being dragged (and dragging her poor grandfather) from one ramshackle, cheap rental to another is not at all relatable and entirely depressing.
It's about trying, up till the moment of death, to discover what it was we rebelled against, what it was we adjusted to, what we loved and what we lost." I'm interested to know what prescription that reviewer was on.
How does she create such absorbing characters, who are so odd and unique, yet completely understandable to the reader?
Duncan and Justine Peck are exactly these types of characters, complete eccentrics who win our hearts.
Their story has levels of the day-to-day mundane - peanut-butter sandwiches, ill-fitting clothes, U-Hauls; but it is colored by the extremes of their lifestyles, a prim-and-proper dysfunctional extended family, gypsy-type traveling from job-to-job, and Justine's career as a fortune-teller.
But the ending is particularly surprising and nuanced, with explorations of Justine's deep ties to her family, and her search for her own identity.
I really like reading books by Anne Tyler.
She is a very good story teller, and very observant about the way people talk to and react to each other.
This particular book has some connections with the other books about Boston and New England that I have been reading lately.
The concept of "family", and keeping things in the "family", and never changing anything that the "family" has passed down across the generations is evident in this book, as well as in The Late George Apley.
This story, however, is about two family members who break the mold, and their struggles to find their own way.
How often do you finish a book smiling with a warm feeling? Have you ever heard of a "bread and butter note"? A close-knit family with its own set of black sheep and eccentrics growing up in Baltimore in the early and mid 1950's. Although my rating says "amazing" that is a bit extreme but it deserves better than the next rating of "I really liked it". I loved the book. The people were real and fun with their own share of misery who managed to always overcome. My second Anne Tyler book but not my last
I remember really liking this book, the first by Anne Tyler that I ever read. She catches you by surprise: you're reading along, following where the story leads, and then suddenly you're laughing out loud on the crowded subway during rush hour at the twist of humor in the simple telling of the tale; and then a few minutes later, starting to tear up. I've read a few of her others, but I have especially warm memories of this one. Read it mid- to late-70s, not sure exactly when.
This is one of my favorite books of Anne Tyler and one of my all time favorites. I have read it numerous times. Justine is a fortune teller, but no body takes her advice even though they return again and again. She has an interesting marriage also. The book plot is actually about her travels with her grandfather searching for a brother who left home and disappeared without a trace decades ago. This is a many layered book.
Anne Tyler captures such interesting personalities, feelings and places. Even though I have a hard time with some of her characters, the writing pulls you in to get to know and love them. You want them to be different than they are, yet you love them--such intricate family relationships!
I found this story to be too long and repetitive. By the end I had forgotten how it had started and why I had chosen it.
Yet another great book by Tyler. I'll say again that her knack for characters is just spot on in everything of hers that I've read so far, Searching for Caleb included.
After reading Anne Tyler's latest book CLOCK DANCE, I looked over my shelf of her books and realized I couldn't remember most of them.
But my favorite SEARCHING FOR CALEB, I still remember Justine, the fortune teller and a couple of funny incidents from the book.
I first read it in 1987 and again in 1988 but it has been 30 years and the mark of a good book is that you remember it after that length of time.
So there are people like Justine.
There are some laugh out loud places in this book and much quirkiness for which Anne Tyler is known.
After reading Anne Tyler's latest book ("Clock Dance") last week, it occurred to me that her novels have, over the years, become much more simplistic than her earlier works.
"Searching for Caleb", which was written over 40 years ago, is the complex work of a very talented author at the top of her craft.
Especially in a story as well-written as this, with engaging, quirky characters that seem like people we all know.
The unusual (i.e. incestuous) pairing of first cousins Denise and Duncan Peck might be cringe-worthy to some (including most of the Peck family), but Tyler tells their story carefully, and with such tenderness, that it serves as the centerpiece of the book.
Prepare to really like this book.
I started this book after I had just finished reading Michael Ondaatje's almost poetic Warlight.
Tyler's book, however, is jam-packed and intense from the moment you start reading.
I confess, this is the first Tyler book I have read.
When I started reading the book, I wasn't sure I wanted to continue.
I was recovering from Warlight an easier read.
Tyler, however, somehow inspired me to keep reading and after awhile I was into it.
You get to know the main characters well by their conversation, behavior and bizarre decisions, and you can't help but marvel at her way with words.
Searching for Caleb is one of the truly memorable Anne Tyler books.
While I won't say this is my favorite of her books, it is wonderfully dense compared to others of her works and in keeping with all of Tyler's novels, is extremely well written.
Tyler has a commitment to plot and character (which I share, and is part of why she's one of my greatest influences as a writer), and that certainly shows in this fantastic novel.
And if you're not a Tyler fan, you should be.
His wife Justine is a fortune teller and her big mission is to help her Grandfather find his brother Caleb who no one has seen in 50 years.I found this book dragged in the middle as it went in to the background of the family in great detail.
The characters were well drawn and the family dynamic was fascinating.
Anne Tyler always makes me reflect on human nature once I have finished reading one of her novels and how we could treat each other better.A decent novel with sad moments, humour and an interesting portrayal of family life.
I'm on an Anne Tyler bender, re-reading several old favorites over the last few months.
I want to be able to write like AT - so beautiful, so fine a portrait artist of the passive underachiever that turns up in all her stories.
I don't think I've read Searching for Caleb before, but I think it may be my favorite AT yet.
I feel a little more forgiving of myself when I read one of her books, and more anxious about using my limited time on earth in the ways that I want to.
Caleb has been missing since the early 1900's. Although the fact that he was gone was present in most of the book, we finally meet him toward the end of the novel. Instead we go through the lives of the descendants, what their lives were like, and Caleb's brother who wanted to find him the most.The main character was Justine, who married her first cousin and had one child. The story of how they lived their lives, all of their frequent moves, the restlessness of Duncan, Justine's husband,and their many ups and downs.
I love Anne Tyler’s writing and loved the beginning and end of this book. The back stories about the family bored me and I couldn’t get past the cousin thing. And I was frustrated by some things that were never tied up at the end (what happened to the daughter??) But 3 solid stars for Tyler’s quirky characters and witty dialogue.
slightly different take from AT where the family story goes back much further. Usual strong characterisations and analysis of family relationships and tensions. Prettu much as usual in that things, ultimately, carry on...
This book had a lot of promise in developing its characters but somehow I felt it lost its way - almost as if one questioned what was the point of it all. The title is deceptive in that a very small part of the book was actually searching for Caleb. The ending just didn’t gel for me.
