https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59099.A_Pillar_of_Iron
This book is about the story of Marcus Tullius Cicero the famous Roman lawyer, philosopher and statesman.
Caesar's and Cicero's assassination are described in a few paragraphs but we can shudder at the details.According to the author's note, she made an extensive research work that began in 1947 from Cicero's diaries, from the historian Sallust and from his letters to Atticus and Julius Caesar.
She translated hundreds of Cicero's letters in the Vatican Library.Since this book was first published in 1965, the author dedicated her book to the memory of President John F.
I don't really like historical novels, because so many false things are added with the truth to make the story interesting and fill in the gaps.
It becomes a chore to filter out what is real and fake.While reading this book, I have been reading others on Cicero and many websites, and believe this book was pretty accurate (with plenty of fill in the gap information that was made up).Caldwell did a great job of explaining the principles Cicero fought for (like a republic and not a democracy or dictatorship) and conspiracies he fought against.
I would close the book and see the same problems, lack of information, demogogues, and stupid apethitic people doing the same thing today and now.
Another statue had crashed in his hall of life and its senseless rubble littered the floor.”Taylor Caldwell tried to change that in 1965 with this historical fiction biography.
Drawing on speeches and letters of Cicero and contemporaries like Julius Caesar, Caldwell gives a survey of Cicero’s thought as well as his life.
A Pillar of Iron joins the genre of historical fiction, based on a Christian world view, such as Quo Vadis and Ben Hur, in the popular in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.“Every age shouts, ‘We are a new era!’ Yet it is always the same, for man doesn’t change.”Quibbles: Stirrups in 80 BC?

"A Pillar of Iron" is a historical novel about Marcus Tullius Cicero, the great Roman orator and consul during the tumultuous last few decades of the Roman Republic.
Here is Cicero, the brilliant thinker who foolishly tries to save the Roman Republic against the powerful and ambitious Julius Caesar and his cohort.
In fact, if you are familiar with the Kennedy administration, there are plenty of ties between Caldwell's Rome and Kennedy's Camelot.
This is really an interesting tale, and if you are willing to bear with a few historical inconsistencies, I would recommend this novel as a great story of the final years of the Roman Republic.
A memorable fictional account of Rome's Cicero and the fall of the Roman Republic. Familiar historical figures like Julius Caesar frequent these pages as Caldwell masterly tells the story of the great Cicero as she relates the political machinations that impacted his meaningful life. Caldwell's intense research into the primary sources are evident on most every page and her skill as a writer makes it exciting reading. I heartily recommend this novel for several reasons. The most important being it is a great read a wonderful way to learn about an important time in Western history.
I learned a lot from this book about the Roman Empire; the conspiracies and power-seeking individuals that led to its fall. Marcus Tullius Cicero, Julius Casear, Cleopatra, and Casear Augustus (Octavius) are a few of the characters in this book. Strong plots and storyline throughout although drags slightly towards the end. A very good read overall.
I know. I know. But it is historical fiction and may not be accurate, but it is an inspiring book. The quotes that are included make it well worth reading, and the story is great even though some criticize it.
Este libro es excelente, toda vez que habla sobre la vida de uno de los mejores abogados y oradores de Roma, Marco Tulio Cicerón. El libro está Dividido en las etapas de su vida : infancia, abogado, político y héroe. El libro es muy descriptivo, cargado de filosofía, tiene un poco de acción, de romance e históricamente se ubica en el momento en que la amada República de Cicerón pasa a ser un Imperio y a pocos años de la llegada de Jesús (cristianismo).Los estudiantes de Derecho o los Abogados ya formados la van a amar...
This could have been a very good book. Caldwell is a very good author but her insistence that Cicero was a closet christian was just to damn much. He died 61 years before the birth of Christ for Pete's sake!

The most beatiful book that you can read, god, family, work, everything


Un muy buen libro, pero no es la clase de libros que yo leo, es por eso que no me gusto mucho.Este libro es perfecto para las personas que len para saber. Le pongo 4 porque es un buen libro, el que no me haya gustado no quiere decir que sea malo simplemente no es mi estilo y por eso no le pondré 1.
I absolutely loved this book. I normally don't like historical novels, but this was recommended to me by a friend. It was truly a work of art, well written by the author and well researched. She does a great job bringing Cicero to life with all his greatness and flaws. Would highly recommend this book to anyone and can't wait to read more Taylor Caldwell.
About Marcus Tullius Cicero and his efforts to save Rome - excellent read - very insightful as to its application to our own political climate.
Se nota el gran trabajo de documentación que hizo la autora, pero por eso mismo pienso que a lo mejor debería haber escrito una biografía, porque como novela, La columna de hierro, fracasa, la tensión narrativa en algunos tramos es floja, a veces parece que todo es una sobre-explicación, una tras otra, los diálogos son inverosímiles (sobre todo cuando son niños de cinco años los que hablan y que parecen senadores) y a veces se asemejan a discursos, es excesivamente largo, son 832 páginas pero parecen 2000, está continuamente aportando datos históricos que intentan llamar la atención del lector, como si fuera un libro de historia, y lo que estás leyendo es una novela, no te puede sacar del sueño de la ficción como lo hace en este libro.
There are books you read as a young man or woman that change your view of life.
Caldwell presents a picture of a man who knows of God, though incompletely, knows the Republic is doomed, but can do little else but fight for it.
I have at times, viewed her version of Cicero (and of Cato) as ideals.
When the Republic fell, he devoted his life to teaching Augustus to respect the old ideals, which Augustus's reign showed he did.
Cicero died knowing that while his cherished Republic fell, he at least had lit a candle for the future.
Aunque en verdad esto no es de extrañar, teniendo en cuenta que la autora parece ser una gran admiradora de los EE.UU., y que dedica el libro al presidente norteamericano J.F. Kennedy.Dejé de leer cuando vi que la autora contaba que Cicerón metió los pies en los estribos al montar un caballo, cuando el estribo no fue utilizado en Europa hasta varios siglos más tarde.
Una falta de rigor imperdonable en alguien que declara haberse documentado durante años para escribir este libro.Si la comparamos con cualquier novela de la saga de Colleen McCullough ("El Primer Hombre de Roma", "La Corona de Hierba", etc.), La Columna de Hierro no aguanta ni un asalto.

Prosa espectacular, historia poderosa, personajes legendarios...la combinación perfecta para una obra maravillosa.
Taylor Caldwell merece el más grande reconocimiento como escritora.
En este libro explora con maestría la fascinante historia de Marco Tulio Cicerón, pero no como el gran político, pensador y filósofo, sino desde la perspectiva del hombre atormentando por la tiranía, los excesos de poder y la vanidad del pueblo romano de su época.
El resultado es asombroso, la imagen de hierro del magnifico hombre cobra vida y se transforma en la de un ser humano lleno de duda e indecisión y capaz de tomar siempre la decisión más apegada a la justicia.
Would've given 5 stars if it weren't for the unexpected supernatural tales. Haven't checked the sources (and probably will not) but I highly doubt Cicero could've foreseen Caesar's assassination in such detail. This made me question everything else in the book despite the author's 9 years of prior research. I know it's a historical novel but a few times it felt like science fiction.This is a great book however. It really made me want to learn more about Cicero and Rome.
Whew! Am I glad to have finally finished this book! Most of the last third I skimmed so keen to be done with it. Cicero is a pathetic, weak character in this novel about him. He is so constantly exhausted with life in general it made me tired reading about him. This book can't even compare with the Rome novels of Colleen McCullough and Robert Harris. I had expected much more from Taylor Caldwell.
What a beauty. Every page was a joy to read. The similarities between US and Rome are startling...however as the author said, as long as human nature is the same, we will continue to repeat the same thing, centuries later. Please read - its a historical novel based on real facts and such a pleasurable read.
Esta es la calificación más subjetiva que he emitido. Creo que es un graaan libro, dónde el trabajo de investigación de la autora se nota. Sin embargo no era momento para leerlo. En este o el próximo año le daré otra oportunidad.
I learned an enormous amount about Caesar's Rome and the life of Cicero. Cicero was honest, and dedicated to Rome. He was an "old" Roman, who yearned for a return to the Republic. He quotes Aristotle that "republics degenerate to democracy; democracy degenerates to chaos." Rather depressing....
Excelente, súper recomendable, entretenido y dinámico. Al parecer tiene bastante rigurosidad histórica. La autora logra hacer de un abogado, un personaje atractivo y con el cual uno se va encariñando poco a poco.
Un libro que, a pesar de ser denso, es muy entretenido, ya que, además del propio Cicerón, narra episodios de las vidas de algunos personajes famosos. Sin duda, un libro recomendado para aquellos interesados en la historia romana.
Read this one in high school; still remember parts of it 40 years later. Cicero's orations and writing are framed beautifully here. She makes you pull for him, even as you know his efforts to save the republic failed.
