https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/866656.Ambassador_Morgenthau_s_Story
Fucking incredible. Want to see where Hitler got all of his ideas? The Armenian Genocide was one of the darkest chapters of human history, yet American Ambassador Henry Morgenthau's stunning work was all but ignored by the American government. Read this and prepare to be blown away.
Understanding a root cause is generally 90% of the solution and without comprehending “why” history often repeats itself.
The book reveals a stark glimpse of present day conflicts.This chilling memoir by Henry Morgenthau was printed in 1918 the final year of WWI.
On a side note Morgenthau’s granddaughter Barbara Wertheim Tuchman authored “The Guns of August”.
Knowing this one can make the connection through the book that his then two year old granddaughter Barbara Wertheim (Tuchman) arrived with her family via an Italian cruise ship on August 10, 1914 to visit Constantinople less than one week after Britain entered WWI.
It’s easy to see where Barbara Tuchman got her passion for history.
Those were times when the written word was really respected.He did the preceding without losing his sense of humor, and clearly relished the opportunity to relate the occasional absurdity of it all, like when a German military attache – nominally ranking below the German Ambassador but actually closer to the Kaiser – pitched a pouty fit when seated at the bottom of the table, next to Morgenthau's daughter, at an official dinner at the U.S. Embassy.
Another reader expressed disappointment that Ambassador Morgenthau didn't have first-hand data about the Armenian genocide.
I read an edition full of transcription errors which was a bit distracting but otherwise readable. This book was chock full of valuable resources for a historian like myself interested in the Armenian Genocide and the lead up to the war from the perspective of the "neutral" American ambassador. I highly recommend a book like this for anyone interested in finding out more about the first world war and the tragedy of the Armenian Genocide.
This is a highly impactful first-hand account of the progress of the Armenian Genocide from the United States ambassador to the Ottoman Turk empire, at that time.
He gives summaries of many conversations with the German Ambassador (America was still neutral then) and with both Enver and Talaat, who were largely the de facto rulers of Turkey.I read this book because I wanted to see what Morgenthau actually said about the massacres of Armenians in Turkey, principally in 1915, now called the Aremenian Genocide.
His conversations with Talaat and Enver, the principal actors in Turkish governance at the time, are usually not reported with sufficient detail to make clear that they sanctioned the killings and torture, although there are a few ambiguous statements that could be so read.
Not just a book about the armenian genocide , but specially about the first world war and its wrong partnerships. Germany seduced the leaders of Otoman empire ,and the result we know. What an inspired ambassador Morgenthau was ! With his ability could avoid other bloodsheds and acted as a solid and brave witness of the genocide .The most appalling and frightening description of the armenian genocide I ve read! The ambassador made a complete analisis of the turkishness , and define the massacres
Not just a book about the armenian genocide , but specially about the first world war and its wrong partnerships.
What an inspired ambassador Morgenthau was !
With his ability could avoid other bloodsheds and acted as a solid and brave witness of the genocide .The most appalling and frightening description of the armenian genocide I ´ve read!
The ambassador made a complete analisis of the turkishness , and define the massacres as terrified as the holocaust.
Nobody is perfect , we all make mistakes but talking about our unresolved things is an important step towards evolution.
Searing proof of the Armenian genocide particularly when compared with accounts of victims. Incredible descriptions with WWI in the background. His criticism of the Turkish character is regrettable, reflecting the times and his frustration with his failure to stop the killings.
a true american
He gave a detailed account of tragic and unacceptable events Armenians experienced then.
3. His prejudice and hatred against Turks.
These kind of depictions full of hatred and prejudice cast a shadow over the objectivity of the book.Nothing can justify what Armenians experienced and of course Armenians aren't the ones to be held responsible for it, but we need to keep in mind that, most of the nations were exposed to deportations and massacres.
For instance between the years 1821 and 1922 around 5.5 million Turks were deported from Balkan States and millions of Turks died in this period of turmoil.
I learned a lot from this book about this critical juncture in history. However it turns out the author wrote the book for propaganda purposes, to get the US to take sides with Britain and against Germany in WW1. As a result the constant one-sided, exaggerated bashing of Germans and Turks has a cheesy feel, making it hard to trust this book as a historical source.
A comprehensive yet readable account of Turkey, beginning as a nation simply seeking a way to survive financially to a nation that massacred and tortured over a million people. Much of what happened during the Ambassador's tenure has laid roots to what the world is still experiencing today.
