https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1632250.Baby_Animals
The arrangement felt really random to me. Allie liked the monkey page, but otherwise didn't seem too impressed.
such a wonderful children's book
I'm sure I had this book as a child.
BABY ANIMALS features the cute illustrations and simple text that are an instantly recognizable as Golden Books.
That said, it is a dated book that I'd not be especially keen to read to the intended audience today.
From a modern sensibility, I don't have much good to say about a book whose first line is "Baby Bear holds his toes.
He wants to be a circus bear when he grows up.
He wants to make all the children laugh." Also, judging by the pictures of Baby Lion and Baby Tiger, it appears as if the author had never seen a photo of a real lion or tiger, ever.
The introductions to the various types of animals are done well, and the illustrations by the legendary Garth Williams are everything that I have come to expect from him.
This book is actually the first one that I have read which was both written AND illustrated by Garth Williams, and it is a debut that I awaited with much interest for quite a long while.
This is a fine book selection for young readers, or fans of great illustrations (and, in particular, for fans of Garth Williams).
This is a good book to read to kids so that they can learn about baby animals and what they do.I always enjoyed this because the baby animals were so cute and loveable.The squirrel, Chipmunk, Kangaroo, Rabbit and the lion and tiger babies were my favorite in the book.The illustrations were wonderful as well and colorful.
For a pre-k children, this book provide illustrations of baby animals and their survival in the wild. I would use this book to explain to children what different animals eat, how they survive from other animals, where they live, their characteristics, and illustrate what different animals look like.
this book is pretty much just about children learning about animals when they are babies. they show good pictures when they are small. children love animals so this book is good to read to them. they enjoy these kind of books. they get the attention of children.
It's exactly what it sounds like - lots of cute baby animal pictures, and the correct names for them as well (it's cool when a little kid knows a baby goose is called a gosling, and other such facts, from an early age).
This was so cute
A childhood favorite.
This is an excellent book children love it even before they have learned to reach out for things.
9/2012 For Naomi7/30/2017 Read with Julia
Though she didn't pay too much attention, yet, she seemed to like the picture of the kangaroo a lot. :)Great illustrations, minimal text.
A great childhood book.
Classic
Lovely illustrations, and I appreciate the wide range of animals included. I wish there was a little more to the story, though.
One of my favorite books when I was a child. I can't wait to read this book to my kids.doll houses
A lovely little book for a read-aloud, with adorable pictures!
Love the drawings of the animals to this day.
Another favorite from the Golden Books collection.
The illustrations are just too cute and fuzzy. But points off for inaccurate information (camels do not store food and water in their humps).
