https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91474.Proven_Guilty
So wonderful, it hurts.This series on audiobook is TO DIE FOR! It keeps getting better and better, and I'm hooked beyond hope. I love you, Harry Dresden, and I love Jim Butcher for his brilliant mind.
In addition to locating the spellcaster, Harry has to contend with an ongoing battle between the wizards and the vampires, movie monsters that have somehow come to life and are attacking citizens, the daughter of an old friend who is in trouble with the law, and fairies with the power to tear the world apart who are on the brink of war!
This time around, I wasn't just entertained by Dresden and his cast of characters...I truly cared about them!Deeper story Look, I'll be the first to admit that, while I found the earlier books very entertaining, the actual plots were often as thin as the paper they were typed on.
This book illustrates perfectly why I'm safe from being a die hard fan of any author.
I'm not alone in finding Proven Guilty a mediocre book.
The foundation of Jim Butcher's books relies on sentimentality.
The hitherto strength of the series, namely that we are willing to accept that Harry Dresden courts trouble, and gets away with it despite a humongous display of stupidity with gallantry as his cloak, becomes his weakness in this book.
The most pleasing element of Proven Guilty is the exposure of the corrupt intricacy of the White Council - the wizard court.
Reread with the lobster
The 8th book in Jim Butcher’s fantastic Dresden Files series, Proven Guilty, first published in 2006, is a more sedate, brooding and dark entry.No doubt Butcher’s page turning, fast paced first person narrative, corny humor and ubiquitous and fun cultural and pop references abound as in other Dresden books, but this one seems more introspective and more attuned to story and character development.There’s plenty of action, don’t get me wrong, Harry’s ability to use Hellfire is again explored and there are plenty of good fight scenes, some even taking place in the NeverNever, but what I’ll take from this book is the subtle interactions and the group dynamics around Harry and his tight circle of friends and fellow paranormals.Now a Warden of the White Council, Harry witnesses a grisly scene of wizard justice to begin the story.
That part felt off to me and crossed a line that I didn't know I had for these books.In my mind, The Dresden Files are sort of the "junk food" of my to-be-read pile.
But I usually agree with what he tries to do and understand his motivations behind it.But the way that he treats Michael's daughter...
There's a kind way to go about things and a cruel way, and I felt like he unnecessarily chose the cruel way.
Sometimes Harry does the wrong thing.
And if this book hadn't included the icky part with Michael's daughter, it would have been a five-star read for me.
[4.5 Stars]Amazing start, even-more-amazing finish, but it definitely got dull in the middle so I couldn't give it a full 5 stars.
Wonderful read. This series just gets better and better and I love how there are now so many secondary characters that get revolved between the various books. It makes the series that little bit more compelling as when you start the book you're not 100% sure who is going to be in it.It felt to me like there was a lot of foreshadowing in this one. Ultimately how powerful is Harry going to become?
Twisted my arm, she did.But now, these last few books I’ve been reading as much for my love for the characters as for the outcome of his next disaster...I mean case.
It’s so cool to see some of the earlier characters showing up, helping out, or revealing more about themselves.
Harry finds himself in the midst of family turmoil while working his next case and I had so many feelings on how the family handled themselves.
It’s very cool to see how it works, how limiting it can be for him, and the means he must use to get around his own limitations.
This is some weird thing Jim Butcher has going on in his head.
I mean, he talks about her body, and piercings that you 'can't see' and I wondered which one of his friends' daughters he is lusting after in real life.Aside from that, this book is mostly just an interlude.
It's a way for Butcher to get from one book to another and introduce his concubine, Molly.
I mean, Butcher starts to repeat himself even more than ever.
No one, and I mean, no one, except a cop who's about to pull his weapon, changes their stance while having a general Q&A/coonversation.
3.5 starsThis was a great addition to the Dresden Files. The first half is about fighting a phobo-phage at a horror convention, but it turns out there is more going on than just a monster. This gives the story an interesting twist. The story is well structured with good pacing.Side characters feature Michael’s family, though Michael himself is mostly absent. Bob also has some great lines. Excellent audio narration by James Marsters.
6 Super-Quick, New-Year's-Eve-And-I-Have-To-Finish-This-Year's-Reading-Challenge Reasons I Finally Gave A Harry Dresden Novel Five Flippin' Stars1.
Harry eased way the heck up on the two things that always make me roll my eyes in Dresden File novels: the obligatory "People don't believe in the supernatural these days" speech (yeah, that happened), and the "Women are different from men and I'm a way nice guy for being extra-protective of women" scene.2.
I was genuinely spooked by one scene, and these books have never given me the chills before.3.
I said, "Whoa, I did NOT see that coming" at least twice for reasons of awesome.4.
The audiobook version of this series is really good. Terrific narrator, and this novel almost made me give the book a 5 star rating, but it's still lacking a bit more. Can't wait to listen to the next novel, or maybe read it.
Comparing with the previous book of the series, I found it a little less thrilling. But I can make peace with that. Harry Dresden doesn't always need earth collapsing disasters or dangers. He is a mortal after all. Well whatever that was stake in this story was no less important to him. Overall a good story. But after the seventh book my expectation was bound to be high. So I am guessing my rating is a little biased. Maybe I would give it a 4 if I had not read the previous one.
Instead Harry, now a Warden, is involved in tracking down whoever is using black magic to terrify and hurt people attending a horror movie convention.
As usual Harry overtaxes his powers and manages to overthrow several nasty supernatural baddies while getting hurt several times in the process.
A new character emerges who may play an important role in Harry's life and there are some hints that the bizarre supernatural events of the past few books are part of some grander plan and that there may be a traitor in the White Council.
Just assume the same things I've said for books four through seven also apply here.Most of this book is spent with Harry adjusting to his new role as Warden of the White Council, and trying to find out who is responsible for letting monsters who prey on fear loose at a horror convention.
Molly makes a return appearance, and she and her friends are mixed up in it somehow, which brings Harry back into the lives of Michael and Charity and their family.
(view spoiler)[I get that Molly is going through a rebellious phase right now, and she has a major crush on Harry, and I get what Butcher is going for.
After reading how he always got into troubles with the White Council, it was interesting to see him as a part of it...not that he didn't get into trouble with them again;) But that wasn't really his fault.
I like reading about Harry being a detective, but I am glad that it's also something deeper than that, which is slowly being revealed in every book.
this book starts with Harry witnessing an execution of a black magic practitioner.
Harry has to find what is about to happen and stop it.
But the events in this book has more to do with the faerie land.
As always I love Harry, Thomas, Bob, Murphy and Mouse but Charity, Michael’s wife, steals the limelight here.
the troublesome relationship between Charity and Molly is also described beautifully where mother wants to save her life from every danger while daughter thinks her mother don’t understand her.
Though the events in the book points out that next book is going to be one hell of a ride.
I'm terrible at writing reviews of in-progress series books, and I think I'm running out of ways to say that I love Harry Dresden, because I just finished this book and I'm completely at a loss as to what the heck to say about it.
Except that I love Harry Dresden.
I did really enjoy coming back to Harry's world, and despite the 2 1/2 month gap between finishing Dead Beat and starting Proven Guilty, I picked up right where I left off without any trouble.
well, understand it.Thomas is quickly becoming one of my favorite characters too.
6/10This was a disappointing entry after the outstanding last novel, Dead Beat (a series high), where the main plot didn't get its grips into me at all and it was only at the end where things went back to the usual high standards of the series.Don't get me wrong, this was business as usual in the Dresden world; fighting demonic factions, a humorous setting for grizzly murders, sexual tension with Harry and Murphy on the intimacy merry go round, Bob and Mouse for some light relief and heroic actions, the White council gearing up for fighting on more than one front.But even with al that it just didn't click for me.
Full Stars! And quite possibly my favorite of the series yet. Maybe. The quick action and standard Dresden episodical feel were sidelined a little bit, or at least that’s how I felt, as there was less of a clear cut villain to defeat and more of a sinister overarching conspiracy that Harry realizes he’s been thrown into and has to puzzle answers together piece by piece while still fighting with everything he’s got to protect his friends and the innocent people of Chicago.Proven Guilty is satisfying, well written and a game changer for Harry Dresden to say the least.
Just a whole lot of fun, and though not quite as good as the one before it, still pushing the series forward into some interesting new territory. Can't wait to see how the consequences of what happened in this one effects what comes next.
I picked up book #8 after almost a 2 year hiatus from Dresden Files (not on purpose or anything) and man the way he catches the reader up with everything is phenomenal.
Dresden files is always a great and fun read for me.
when I'm in a reading mood I pick up Dresden.
This book opened many paths for the next book, but unfortunately for me they will be focused heavily on Molly, whom I don't care for (but maybe she will grow on me?)The ending scene with Molly was hilarious (once again me not liking her might have contributed to me laughing very hard at the scene, even though it was just a bit mean as well).
And the actual ending of the book was very sweet.
I'm guessing anyone who's gotten to book 8 of this series is already a hard core Dresden fan and it gets harder to criticize the small stuff.
Things heat up when a bunch of Phobophages and Fetches show up at a Horror convention and start making mince meats of peoples bodies and minds.
Molly Carpenter ends up playing a major role in the plot as she asks Harry to help her on the sly without letting her parents know.
The sort of thing that's really going to put Harry on Charity Carpenter's list - of people to kill.
Sometimes I get tired of being the guy who is supposed to deal with un-deal-withable situations. (I just found another reason I like Harry - his penchant for making up his own words. That's totally my thing! I find that adding an -ness and -ish to words that shouldn't have them is helpful.) Anyway.... In this exciting episode, Harry is assigned to find out information from the Fae courts, who is practicing black magic, and catch the person or thing responsible for sending out creepy monsters th
(I just found another reason I like Harry - his penchant for making up his own words.
In this exciting episode, Harry is assigned to find out information from the Fae courts, who is practicing black magic, and catch the person or thing responsible for sending out creepy monsters that look like horror movie characters.
Harry's juggling a lot of dangerous stuff!
Okay, Harry, I'm just going to add in a puppy and a Ming vase for you to juggle along with those items.
She can take down any guy and make them cry like a little bitch.
She has Harry very clearly in the friend zone.
The eighth novel in Jim Butcher's Dresden Files centers around scary things happening at a horror covention--and no, I don't just mean the con-funk from devotees who don't bathe for several days.
Harry is pulled into an investigation of strange monsters attacking people around town, all of it centering at the local horror convention.
Or to put it another way--just another day in the life of Harry Dresden.After the previous installment of the Dresden Files proved a bit of a disappoinment (it felt stretched a bit for a larger page count), Jim Butcher returns to form with the longest Dresden Files novels so far and the most densely packed and plotted.
Each book gets better and better, and this is my first five star read of the series.The White Council and Harry, while both supposedly batting for the same team, have always butted heads.
Harry's unconventional ways and volatile upbringing make the whole council sort of look askance at him.
If you've been missing Michael, Harry's enforcer friend, and his crazy, suspicious wife- well, wait no longer.
After eight books, I can usually tell where a series is headed, but not only do I not WANT this one to end, the anticipation is half the fun...I really have no idea where Butcher is headed with this.
Not to mention all the other crazy situations he has to deal with, like a vampire war, and a fallen angel in his head.Jim Butcher brings it back with a series that you would think would get stale after 8 books but this series just keeps chugging along.
It was nice to see Harry’s relationship with the Carpenter family develop a little more after they have been absent for several books.The plot itself was a tad predictable but there were a few good twists.The strange emphasis on how a 16 year old wants to jump in bed with Harry threw me off a little.

I loved getting to know Charity better in this episode. She is a badass momma when one of her kids is in danger.
