https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12987640-imagine
His main point here is that creativity and innovation arises when we freely mingle within diverse ideas, but sometimes it seems like he's too busy boosting for entrepreneurs and big cities, and he lets that get in the way of his central thesis.
I hope you are no relation to the great man....The big issue here is not even that the prat made up some Dylan, in an ignorant and arrogant way thinking he'd get away with it.The problem is that it makes everything he does unreliable.
It's easy to discover that he has made up the Dylan bits, but what about all his other 'sources'.
Liar, LiarPants on fire!http://tv.yahoo.com/news/imagine-auth...
The problem is that the reason the ideas are counterintuitive is that they are wrong.Take for example, the chapter on how "brainstorming meetings are a terrible idea." (This is the chapter that was probably most mentioned in reviews.) The reader would be much better served watching a short Nightline video on the design firm IDEO to see how brainstorming does work in the real world to produce many of the real products that surround us.
Lehrer's evidence for his surprising claim bashing brainstorming is a psychology study with groups of 4 or 5 undergrads, and no facilitator or special tools, working on an assigned topic they probably don't care about.
I'm more than half-way through and maybe it's just my left-brain (even though tests show I'm sort of more right-brained?) getting in the way but I'm rather frustrated about how every chapter seems to say no, it's not just what we said in the previous chapter, it's this!
Like relaxation is essential unless you're productive when you're under stress.
Then stress!
Perhaps it's a sign of just how complicated the subject matter is but, it's rather frustrating picking through this book and saying, "but wait a minute, back here you said this, and now your saying not-this?"In the end, I've enjoyed it, but I feel as if it is living testimony to how little we understand about imagination, innovation's spark in the mind, and how one person's creatively stifling situation is another's crucible of innovation and insight.
Likewise, it is so obvious that some of the most creative people are those whose expertise spans multiple areas.The second half of the book, titled "Together", was more interesting to me.
And, there is a high rate of turnover among the technically skilled engineers.While it seems obvious, it is worthwhile mentioning that creative people feel less inhibited to take risks.
So, it appears that creative people are less afraid to fail, and they are persistent in the face of a string of failures.The style of this book is similar to that of of Malcolm Gladwell.
This makes it a fun, feel-good book--it's just not a definitive work.
I heard the author interviewed on Fresh Air (http://www.npr.org/2012/03/21/1486071...) and was utterly fascinated! He told so many interesting stories, such as every researcher at 3M gets an hour a day (of their workday) to do whatever they want ... take a nap, go for a walk, play a game, etc. 3M knows that that time creates creativity!He also told the story of how Swiffer was invented. Interesting!
well...I did think this book was great. Until I found out that he fabricated quotes in the Bob Dylan chapter and then lied to cover it up. It seems likely (the investigation is still ongoing) that more of the book is fabricated. He's creative all right but I really have no respect for him anymore--he's a journalist after all and his behavior violates the basic ethics of journalism.
Fabricating sources to support your thesis is plagiarism of the worst sort and something I struggled against while teaching composition to undergrads.
I did enjoy the book, but now that the quotes are in question, as a reader, I have to wonder what else was invented or ripped from context to support Lehrer's ideas.
The book was still thought-provoking, though, and perhaps Lehrer can reinvent himself as speaker on intellectual honesty to college and high school students and to outline how a well-respected, smart guy gets sucked into thinking that it's acceptable to make stuff up and pass it off as factually true in a published book.
FASCINATING!!! Well researched and well written. Some things seem like 'well duh' but they really aren't. If you are creative, if you aren't creative check this book out. It will enhance your creative powers, and validate HOW you get to your creative state. If you aren't creative, or don't THINK you are creative, you may quite possibly be surprised.
Lehrer does a fascinating job of discussing, presenting, and analyzing creativity in many forms, and his information and insights have value for us personally, as communities, and, of course, as teachers.
Secondly, and more damningly, the book is so male-oriented that it inspired the kind of frustration I haven't felt since the bad old days of teachers "jokingly" telling the girls they couldn't do or be something or other.
I wish some editor could've noticed this fault, because it certainly undermines the book's message that we need to "think different," that we need to see our world through a different lense in order to really inspire and benefit from creativity.
I consider myself a creative type and have often wondered why sometimes the ideas flow easily and other times it feels like trying to squeeze a hammer through a tube of toothpaste.
Interesting, but I can't really do anything about how my brain works, can I?The genius of this book is the way he explains how other people are creative.
I almost handed the book to my boss, he needs to read the chapter on the "Q" factor (the idea that you have to bring in new people every now and again to juice up everyone on the team).
Jonah Lehrer is a good writer, though his prose gets a bit overwrought at times when he's talking about literature.
But add the element of art, especially literature, and his prose gets more florid and he begins to add more clauses; in other words, the prose heats up a bit.
His ending thesis, especially, recalled the harried dash for the end of an undergraduate paper: WE NEED TO FOSTER THE MAGIC OF CREATIVITY OR WE ARE DOOMED.
Pretty good read, though single minded and a bit repetitive.
That's all true, I concur.BUT (and this is a big but for me because I've actually experienced what I'm going to tell you) there's a tiny gem in this book, which is backed-up by neuroscience, a fact which makes it shine Even brighter, and for the man or woman--or better, for the kids who'd love to enhance or polish or retrieve their lost creativity, this tiny gem is a true treasure.This tiny and Bright and so talked-up gem, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing else but Depression .Now, I know this may sound odd at first, but depression—although a scary and depressing word in itself—is a wonderful feeling, *WHEN* used as a tool for creativity.The root of every emotion is its opposite and, for me, the opposite of Spontaneous, child-like, out-of-this-world, innovative, wild-colors-on-ever-changing-canvas creativity, is dark, gloom, I-want-to-kill-myself-with-all-my-heart-but-I-won’t-actually-do-it-because-I’m-not-stupid, depression.Of course, you don’t have to take it that far; I’m just pointing out the extremes here, but, yes, if you want to tread the journey named creativity, the carrot is not sufficient; you have to add the stick too, unfortunately.
You can't argue about the creativity of a new product or invention - you certainly can about art.There are, nonetheless, some very interesting observations - and it's certainly not all as commonplace as 'it helps to go and have a walk if you're trying to come up with an idea'.
(This may seem trivial, but it's one of the most powerful aids to creativity.) I was really interested in the aspects of the influence of cities over productivity, and how electronic versions don't deliver the same effect.Unfortunately, Lehrer does get one thing totally wrong.
The bridge is strong enough to see the comparisons between all three types of creativity.His surveys are always fascinating, though I wondered how “true” they were; he never quite offers statistics to show that his ideas are universal.
They initiate a critical plan where they also offer solutions to problems they see.- My theater friends will love this: Lehrer talks about the Q effect, a mathematical equation that says that the right mix of compatriots and strangers working together can guarantee a Broadway hit.
Jonah Lehrer narrates his own book, which can be a lot of fun.
However, Mr. Lehrer is not a professional narrator like Mr. Brick, so I'm trying not to be too harsh.
My favorite chapter was definitely the one about excess genius (which we DO NOT have in Phoenix), Shakespeare (a genius that had opportunity to be a genius), and patents/copyright (Shakespeare didn't have to worry about no freakin' Mickey Mouse law).
Or perhaps because it got me thinking about "excess genius" in certain fields of study.
These ideas tend to be rather contradictory and, in some ways, not useful at all, in spite of the overarching self-help-y tone that the book has as a whole.And that's the other big issue I have with this: It's like Lehrer sold out and became a corporate shill.
I can see big companies giving this to all their execs to use in helping become more efficient in innovating and encouraging their employees to become more creative.
Unfortunately, however interesting the subjects and studies referenced in this book may be, it is a disturbingly heartless book about "creativity" that reads more like a workplace productivity seminar than anything with the slightest shade of depth.
Lehrer is a technophile, not a neurologist, who writes about the creative process as the golden ticket to "success" today, and the Disneyland tomorrow where the whole fucking world is paved and stuffed to the brim with novelty and gadgets to keep us distracted from our hollow, empty lives.
Vonnegut certainly knew a great deal more about creativity than this jackass and the book is a top notch satire about how stuffed-shirt stooges like Jonah Lehrer took over the whole fucking world.Sound angry?
Lehrer is communicating sometimes complex information about the creative process in a simplified form that makes it reader-friendly.Creativity often seems mysterious, a gift some people have and some just don't.
Lehrer argues that creativity is far more common than we may believe, it just flourishes under some conditions more than under others.For example, cities stimulate creativity because of the close proximity and constant interaction with other people.
Ideas are spread and elaborated upon, which leads to the explosion of new ideas.For this to happen, Lehrer argues that there are some meta-ideas, prevailing societal conditions that lead to more creativity.
By examining the ways and means of the creative “geniuses” who produced “Blowin’ in the Wind,” the Post-It Note, West Side Story, Hamlet, the Swiffer (mop), and numerous other examples of successful innovations, Lehrer illuminates the principles he draws from extensive reading of scholarly research papers on neuroscience and his interviews with their authors and lays the groundwork for a set of observations about how a company or organization, or a government, can foster creativity.For example, Lehrer notes that creativity is by and large a product of cities — places where people are typically forced to encounter those who have different values, represent different cultures, or simply have different ideas.
Well, long warm showers are a known stimulus, but so is some daydreaming, working across disciplines, travelling, taking risks, being serious about education, and any other number of things.Lehrer brings together the modern neurological research and the case histories of the industrial engineer developing Post-It-Notes, what happens at Pixar’s studio, Bob Dylan’s songwriting, the playing by Yo-Yo Ma, the drinks an amateur bartender creates in NYC, the Silicon Valley folks, etc.
They are as diverse a group as you can get with only one thing in come- they are creative!There is no formula for stimulating creativity, but Lehrer makes it clear we can all be as creative as the people he writes about.
This gives your brain a chance to make new connections and get into the alpha wave state, priming you for insight.-- If you think you’re getting close to a solution for a nagging problem, knuckle down and concentrate.
Sometimes you have to work hard to get through the problem, but the brain has the ability to sense when you're getting close, like when the word you need is on the tip of your tongue.I have read that some of Lehrer's quotes were fabricated, so take what you read with a grain of salt.
A mix of concrete examples and science exploration into how creativity works, this book has loads of implications for the classroom.
This book really got me thinking about how I will set up my classroom in the next year.Here's a great quote:"The mystery is this: although the imagination is inspired by the everyday world- by its flaws and beauties- we are able to see beyond our sources, to imagine things that exist only in the mind.
We notice an incompleteness and we can complete it: the cracks in things become a source of light.
Every creative story is different.
And every creative story is the same.
The University of Utah has adopted this book for the year, which I admit is what prompted me to read it.
Sometimes the nonexpert is the person who can make a creative breakthrough because he looks at the problem in an entirely different way.
And, it's much more stimulating to share ideas with many people, rather than hoarding them in the privacy of one's brain.UPDATE: So very sad that Lehrer has resigned and admitted that parts of this book were made up, in particular quotes from Bob Dylan.
My rating still stands, because the diversity/creativity relationship rings true to me.
Thoroughly enjoyable and insightful exploration of creativity and the conditions necessary to produce it. Great read for writers, teachers, anyone interested in innovation and creativity.
The book starts by stressing on the fact that every creative journey starts with a feeling of frustration, when we give up trying and stop searching for the answer.
Here is a quote from the ingenious cellist Yo-Yo Ma which once I read it I was sure I would always think about it every time I have a stage fright: "People always ask me how I stay loose before a performance," Ma says.
I learned from this book, that we all can be creative and artists, the question is whether we choose to be or not.
We do some of our best thinking when we're half asleep.-Conceptual blending: the ability to make separate ideas coexist in the mind; a crucial creative tool-The point is that it's not enough to just daydream.
The hard part is maintaining enough awareness so that even when you start to daydream you can interrupt yourself and notice a creative thought.-Be more disciplined about letting your mind wander.
Intentional daydreaming.-Dionysian Innovator: divergent thinking - the kind of thinking essential to a remote association problem; the thought process of warm showers & blue rooms.-Apollonian Artist: convergent thinking - all about analysis and attention; focus on the necessary information, filling our mind with relevant thoughts.-"The struggle of maturity is to recover the seriousness of a child at play." -Nietzsche-"I welcome that first mistake.
Lehrer comes at this topic with a goal: to see what we can and should be doing to improve the innovation successes in the United States in the future.
This book says that in fact, we’d do better to share our ideas as much as possible, since interactions improve the product and/or chance of success.
Companies that force interaction by their layout, or studies collaborated by several authors in face-to-face interactions, improve the creative atmosphere and may develop a product more likely to be widely accepted.
“Art is work” and breakthroughs often come when we give our brains a rest from rigor and give it time to process all it has taken in.
Like Evonne, Jonah Lehrer, despite my five stars, could have achieved even more with his wonderful “Imagine.” Unfortunately, in the middle of the first third of the book he went on a walk-about by being inconsistent with his premise and somehow unintentionally underscoring the disconnect between mind altering drugs and meaningful creativity.But I digress.
The central point is that Lehrer has written a great book for those interested in knowing why and how man creates.The power of a new pair of eyes, whether they are an outsider’s or yours freed from the constraints of your own expert consistency, is perhaps the single strongest tool to innovation.
