https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29969.The_Open_Conspiracy
The Open Conspiracy calls for various things that either have been implemented since like a centralized world bank controlling all money creation, which all "world citizens" (at this point in time unwittingly) would pay a tax into.
Other choice things discussed in The Open Conspiracy, and these are direct quotes, are Wells talking about the need for a "mental sanitation process" where feelings of nationalism are to be replaced with an acceptance being a "world citizen".
Wells says the main objective of the "Open Conspiracy" in the early stages of the social engineering process is to "disentangle all traditions, loyalties, and time honored ideas", meaning loyalty to ones country, race and family.
I suppose this is the intellectual foundation of one world government. But unlike the conspiracist scare with which we tout the name, this books presents a framework of the world where division of races, nation states, religions will be non-existent. Instead one race - human race will organize its efforts (by limiting its birth as well) to distribute natural resources equally for all, so that full potential of human can reach its heigh.Without it, the alternative are the same wars that preceded present civilization mostly like resulting in mutual self annihilation.
The Fabians were smart enough to realize that true revolution takes generations.
They very much embody and advocate the Huxleyan soft-power control structure.Wells was a major propagandist for the Fabians and sells their vision with true religious fervour.
The problem is: the idea of world government is truly monstrous.
And The Open Conspiracy is a truly monstrous document.
It spells the true death of the human soul.
It represents complete spectrum control of the human species.
And as usual, it is sold to us as for our benefit.This should be required reading for anyone with a concern for the path we're on.
Read it.
Shhhhh. So you want into the conspiracy? It should have a big payoff. Cmon, what do you say? Are you in?
