https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35992.The_Black_Book
A striking series of ornate sentences strung together by thematic tentacles of doom, death, and consumptive Cockney girlfriends.
Written with the exuberant zeal of a 24-year-old Boy Genius taking perverse pleasure in satirising the “English death” (sexual repression and bourgeois stuffiness) from his residence in Corfu, Durrell’s allusive, nigh-on-apocalyptic rant-cum-ramble is a knotty (and naughty) string of surreal images, dark and erudite musings on death and decay, clotted at times with too many classical references, and long passages of meandering lyrical weirdness whose meaning is never (if ever) certain, rarely erotic and no longer shocking to the modern reader but redeemed by the astonishing calibre of the sentences for such a young writer.
I haven't read either of these.Knowing Lawrence Durrell's exquisite style of writing both in his novels and travel books, I could see why he had reservations about this book and even about throwing it away.
Due to Miller, it was published in Paris in 1938 and at the time was considered to be on a par with D.H. Lawrence, James Joyce and Henry Miller.
I personally feel that his style at the time he wrote the "Black Book" was not on a par with "The Alexandria Quartet".
The booknerd in me couldn't bare to give you two stars while I gave a fanboy MMA book four stars, so you got three.
There is some nice poetic prose in this book but I just couldn't get into this at all.
I'm not sure what the point of the book was.
I have a feeling when this book came out it caused quite a titter among those who read smart books, there are lots of little dirrrrty words and I'm sure people found (find?) the amoral decadence delightful.
I can understand the mixed reviews for this book.
I've been reading the marvelous letters between Durrell and Miller to increase my understanding and I come to this book after having read the Alexandria Quartet, a group of novels that I consider some of the best in literature.
What keeps me pushing forward in this book, however, is the language, the truly unique descriptions and insights such as:Knowing Clare, I can imagine pretty well the form that seduction took.
To write like he does at 24 is astounding to me, 40, reading to understand how writing should be done.
The Black Book has come back to me over and over in my life.
I first read it in Amsterdam living in a squat in a drizzly november; it is angry and taut and magnificent—terribly flawed and scarred in a way that first novels rarely are these days.
Durrell sent the only copy of his MS to Henry Miller, saying that he didn't know what to do with it, and asking Miller to throw it in the Siene when he was done with it; instead Miller took it to Jack Kahane, the founder of Oberlisk Press in Paris and demanded Kahane publish it, which he did promptly after reading it.
Ale 250 stran těchle výtoků je moc.Ale jak by řek mladej Durrell: "Její ústa jsou jako popelníky plný vajglů odtažitosti." Bohužel je ale většina knihy jeden velkej popelník, se kterým jsem měl co dělat, abych ho dočetl.
To, že to napsal Durrell ve 24 letech a pochválil mu to Henry Miller je sice fajn, ale moje babička taky říká, že dobře vařím.
Krom ohřejvání, to mi jde dobře i na pánvi.Příběh party divných lidí ze čtyřicátých let žijících v britským hotelu zdánlivě dává vzpomenout na Tři truchlivý tygry, který vloni vyšly u Fra - zdánlivě znamená, že jsem to sem napsal, aby ta recenze nebyla moc krátká.
The Black Book was for me, the most exciting book I had ever read at the time. I carried it in my schoolbag, and would secretly show it to school mates. My compositions on 'What I did during my summer holidays' were liberally sprinkled with Durrellesque styles, lines and, where I could get away with it, acts. Highly recommended to callow youth and nostalgic men.

is the first instance in which Durrell used many of the techniques that would later allow him to investigate issues arising from his vision of the discontinuous self, most notably the layering of multiple narrative voices, and proves a growing fascination with many of the themes that would occupy him for the rest of his life.An impressionist rather than strictly plot-based novel, The Black Book presents the chaotic reminiscence of a former schoolteacher and fledgling writer who has escaped moribund England for a small Greek island.
Cut-rate Henry Miller, which I think even the author realized (he wanted Miller to burn the book after reading). I have to admit, Durrell is a very poetic writer (he used many words that couldn't be found in the dictionary with my Kindle), but stories of la vie boheme -- prostitutes included -- don't appeal to me at this point in my life. For the young.
The mumblings of a sex addict delirious madman. Didn't make any sense, I couldn't even find the will to bother with it anymore than simply reading the words. Frankly, I enjoyed studying for my exams much more. If you ever find yourself wanting to read this book, just turn around and do anything else. Your time would then be much more meaningfully spent.
Essentially a 200-page-long ramble with not much happening and more-than-a-bit-confusing surrealist overtones. But, my God, Durrell's writing. It swirls and twirls and flutters about, dirty, beautiful, splendid, indecent. If this book were a woman, you'd be drooling sleepless nights over her, regardless of your sexual preference.
Even if speed is what Death Gregory would prefer.It is a difficult book to read, though, and not just for its vocabulary.
Durrell, too, writes from such a confined perspective, but (in Book Two, especially) he does not seem able even to see the glass.
The first novel published under his own name, The Black Book (published in France in 1938) is the work wherein Durrell found his voice as a writer.
Durrell was first a poet and had published his first volume of poetry in 1931, five years before writing The Black Book.
Durrell sent the only copy of the manuscript to Henry Miller in Paris with the instruction to read the book and then throw it in the Seine.
The mature Durrell recognized the book's flaws but valued it as his first work as a serious writer of fiction.
However the second attempt from scratch was continuous and I gave up noting words down to look up in the dictionary as Lawrence tends to fill entire sentences with wonderful words for the job that although not knowing half the meanings, I got the picture.The story is wonderfully crass, filled with anti-erotica, kind of like if Tom Sharpe was to have written À rebours.
Take out the glass eye, unscrew the legs, the arms. Remove the wig, the teeth, the silver plate in the scull, the tubes in the anus and abdomen, and just climb into bed and wait for summer.
Beautiful prose, if you like reading about someone's wetdreams.
The book itself, though...
I enjoyed Prospero’s Cell for its rich language but was put off by some of the long philosophical discussions, which seemed to confirm Gerald Durrell’s description of his brother as a bit of a pretentious arse.
The Black Book clinches it.
I’m no clearer what Durrell was trying to say at the end than I was at the start, unless it was “England in the ‘30s is a bit grim; I’m off to Corfu!”.
TS Eliot liked it, but Durrell cosies up to Eliot all the way through, much as he did to Henry Miller.
But then there was all this psychedelic surrealistic junk that got me lost.
At some point I *think* the author met some beautiful black woman, one of his friends came out of the closest and started cross dressing, and the one of the other characters got married and settled down.
Then there was Gregory, the other narrator.
He seemed to have known the same people as the main narrator, and was married to a girl named Gracie.
But beyond getting lost in deciphering any meaning, the parts that I did get just made me feel yucky and empty.
This is one of those books that need to be studied in a literature class, with a good dictionary at hand, to be fully appreciated. Surrealistic, stream-of-consciousness, and fairly depressing, set in England after WWI. P.G. Wodehouse was writing about the same era, but with a markedly different tone. Frankly, I prefer the books of Gerald Durrell. I suppose I should give it more stars, But I can't say that I liked reading it.
Original novela de juventud en la que la obscenidad, el sexo y el surrealismo se mezclan en un paisaje inglés y global que se superpone. Con extenuantes citas literarias, pero un chorro de verbo fuerte y agresivo.
Someone else has described this book as a rant-cum-ramble. Too rambling and ranty for this reader...
Первая книга Даррелла. Крутая. Как первый альбом рок-звезды: потом будут шедевры, но этот останется самым драйвовым.
Fascinating. One part Henry Miller, one part James Joyce, one part ramblings to a shrink, and the balance in need of a sharp eyed editor. Nonetheless, the work of a 22-year old genius.
The writing was fantastic but I am unsure what happened, I got lost in the language and imagery
Do you remember the first time you opened a thesaurus and, suddenly, you were desperate to start using all the words?
Welcome to The Black Book.This book is the straw that breaks me from having to read any more books that I don't understand and couldn't care less about.
It was tantamount to standing in the rain without an umbrella and finding the random break in the clouds.
By the time I figured out that the rain would never stop, I was really too far gone to give up on it completely.
The prose is almost embarrassingly purple.
It is existential Freudian coming of age prose.
It is brooding, angst-ridden prose.
Prose that comes from loving Lawrence and Miller.
"These abstractions crossing and recrossing the drunken mind; and we on a planet, buzzing in space across the alphabetical stars: the creak of the earth curling away into the night like a quoit, like the creak of cable and spar on a ship; and only this mushy carpet on which to dread out our footsteps towards the final wedding with loneliness.
Does the endless iteration of loneliness tire you?
I don't know if it was Durrell's writing or the "plot" of the story, but it didn't live up to my expectations.
I was completely lost in the vague descriptions of the characters' actions and thoughts, and I think that I lost the point of what the author was trying to say in every page.
Maybe I should probably read this book after some years, and try to get close to it from a different perspective.
But the era that the story takes place is magical enough, and if you're a fan of Lawrence Durrell, then this book is for you.
A bit of historical fluff associated with its publication neatly sums up my problem with it:Durrell worked for a year on the manuscript, then sent it to Henry Miller proclaiming his dissatisfaction with the final result.
If a published novelist (Durrell had two under his belt by the time The Black Book came along) sent me his or her work claiming it was worthless, exhorting me to chuck it, I would.
I mean, come on.So, my problem with the book: it felt like it was written by somebody who would send it to his idol and ask him to chuck it.
Every author who ever put one word to paper wishes their one of their first literary works was like The Black Book.A book you cannot put down, and Durrell, or rather his larger than life but dark characters, Lawrence Lucifer and Death Gregory, are with you every step of the way, like good and bad angels perched atop your shoulders - but which is which?
You never know, and that is one of the books' many delights.Durrell is descriptive without really describing, and this is more powerful than when an author tries to write down every little detail, and oftentimes the reader still cannot see with the minds eye the object, person or place.
