https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13206996-the-ship-that-sailed-to-mars
The artwork in this book is totally amazing. Try and find a copy of this forgotten classic and marvel at the watercolour illustrations.
The paper and the binding feel wonderful; the colors are fantastic; the layout is thoughtful and attractive; and the art work and calligraphy are lovely.
If you are a connoisseur of golden-age illustrators like Edmund Dulac, you will definitely appreciate this book.
That's not to say that a child could not appreciate it.
There's plenty for a child to appreciate here: the art work, the fancifulness, and the simplicity of plot-line would definitely appeal to any child.Timlin was an architect who lived in South Africa.
Timlin wrote the story in fine calligraphy of his own designing, and he did all the art.
The type, the paper, and those illustrations!
I with I could include photos of some of the illustrations here, but a quick search on line will give you an idea.An old man builds a ship to sail to Mars, with the help of fairies (naturally), has adventures along the way, helps a princess save her beloved from Sorrow and all ends well.
They would be wrong to do so, just as Disney was (and is) dreadfully misguided in excising the pagan bits from Wind and the Willows (the chapter "The Piper at the Gates of Dawn", which I suggest is the most beautiful chapter, is missing from the Disney edition, damn them!).
Super good Science Fiction / Fantasy, also a beautiful book, more like an illuminated manuscript
I got the book for Christmas and read the intro by John Howe and the whole history of the author, etc., but didn't get to read the entire story as I was on Christmas break from college and did not have time.
Later I got to flip through the book and there's actually not that much of a difference between the original and this reprint.
Otherwise, this reprint looks exactly like the original, just as pretty.The story isn't too complicated, but the ideas are really interesting.
Illustrations: 5Story: 3.5
I found The Ship That Sailed to Mars in a glorious bookshop in Boulder, Colorado. How have I gone my whole life and not heard of this work of art? The story is a 1920s scifi fantasy that looks like the whole thing should be framed. The story itself is lovely, but the book also boasts some of the most beautiful illustrations I’ve ever seen. Some blessed soul put almost the whole thing online (though sadly without Timlin’s exquisite hand-lettered pages), so you have no excuse not to check it out: http://web.archive.org/web/2009102617... Read and wonder.
Books like this, and say the more familiar The Invention of Hugo Cabret by Brian Selznick, are to me proof positive that there is no experience like holding a book in your hands. It's hard to believe that this was once intended to be a silent film adaptation starring comedian Raymond Griffith.
Stunning. I couldn't be more grateful to the publisher for bringing such an amazing book back to life after so many years. I can't help but wonder, now, what other lost and forgotten stories remain discarded in the dusty corners of the world...
Sweet, lyrical, and above all, beautifully crafted and illustrated. It was a pleasure to get a chance to read and handle an original copy.
Yay - the Interlibrary Loan for this finally came in. Skimmed through it just for the gorgeous artwork and can now settle down to read it more thoroughly
the most weirdly haunting children's fantasy ever, from the golden age of illustration
A beautiful read and expereince. Was given to me as a gift and I will treasure it. The binding is beautiful, the illustrations are exquisite and the words are transporting.
Stunning & weird book in an excellent reproduction reprint.
