https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12663.The_Covenant
I never believed I could understand the complicated, bloody, perplexing history of South Africa. Leave it to Michener to prove me wrong. This was published in 1980. I wish Jimmy was still around to provide a follow-up from 1980 to the present. 1235 pages! And it only took me 8 1/2 weeks. This is my big accomplishment for the year. It may even be the longest book I've ever read. If I don't get through anything else on my 2011 challenge shelf, that will be okay.
My favorite Michener. The story behind South Africa. And when I say behind, that is truly Michener's style. He starts with the beginning of time, how the earth was formed, the first people to populate the area, and on to the present day. An incredible amount of information, but entertaining to read as he masterfully follows several families whose lives cross again and again over centuries.
Anytime I recommend one of his books, I must verify that the intended reader loves history, loves reading, and is willing to hunker down and delve through slow stories to enjoy the incredible wealth of knowledge that can be gained from his stories.
To read this story takes a level of patience and desire that most books, even most historical novels, do not require.
It really is too bad that we don't get to see this story through to the end of apartheid; however, if this had been written in 2014 there would undoubtably be future history that readers a hundred years from now would lament not being being included.
If it's a tome it is gigantic by its very definition, or are you saying that it's especially large, even for a tome?Alright, so when I was considering writing a review of this tome, I made a promise to myself not to use the word epic.Newsflash, genius, you are writing a review and you just used the word epic.
Durrr, hey I'm not interested in reading about South African history, I think I'll read this monstrous (thank you, thesaurus) Michener book that focuses entirely on South Africa.
It isn't.Listen, you lumpy-headed simpleton, can you guarantee beyond all doubt that one of the many Michener books that you haven't read isn't his best?No, but ...Then your opinion isn't worth much, is it?Fine.
There are many characters in this novel, as it spans hundreds of years.You will read about Cecil Rhodes, the rise of the Zulu Empire, the Boer wars and the concentration camps that the British erected during that war.It also provides a good look at the evil of Apartheid, how it was established, and how many whites in the country knew it could not last.As with many Michener books, you learn something as you enjoy the great story.
Michener crams this book with outstanding usage of the history of the county and then blend his fictitious families to be part of those events.
He allows us to see Africa through the eyes of competing groups that live and settled there from the Hottentots to the Xhosa to the Dutch and English, and we get to understand some of the reasoning behind the Boer (Dutch farmer) War and eventual domination of the country.
Obviously, the book was written before that institution was torn down, and I am certain that Michener would have loved to have been able to add a few chapters to help analyze how that happened and what has happened to South Africa since that time.
A bible of a book - both in terms of size and contents - that retells the history of South Africa through the stories of both fictitous and historic characters. A truly ambitious endeavour in true Michener style, which had a profound effect on me when I read it at the age of 16 - and still does! The book ends in the 1980s, and I am still amazed at Micheners insight into the shaping of post-apartheid South Africa.
A bible of a book - both in terms of size and contents - that retells the history of South Africa through the stories of both fictitous and historic characters. A truly ambitious endeavour in true Michener style, which had a profound effect on me when I read it at the age of 16 - and still does! The book ends in the 1980s, and I am still amazed at Michener´s insight into the shaping of post-apartheid South Africa.
This is not a new book, but I'm glad I've found it as James Michener is a master storyteller. In history classes we were taught drips and drabs of our history, so it was interesting to see how it all fits together. This historical novel is obviously based on fact, but the author's own storyline is cleverly interwoven. It gives one a comprehensive account of how South Africa came into being, the different role players involved as well as the dynamics of this multi-cultural and multi-faceted country. A must for those who whish to understand this complex country.
tl;dr - Read the book, don't listen to the audioI listened to the Audiobook (if you can even call it that).It is actually a 1993 tape recording with a monotonous narrator that cannot pronounce a single word related to the Dutch, Afrikaners, Xhosa, Zulu.Being about 60 hours of audio, it gets a bit tedious being told to reverse, or turn the tape around every 30 minutes.
The last time I read this book was about six years ago, and I remember thinking that Michener was overly sympathetic to the Afrikaners, and thus, to their cause - apartheid.
Like all Michener books, this is incredibly well-researched, and very involved, with characters that span hundreds of years.
However, like most Michener books I've read, this is also a fascinating read - and, as I discovered this round, not necessarily sympathetic to the Afrikaners and their cause.I think Michener demonstrates sympathies to all groups he writes about, and this book is no exception.
It was very interesting to read this book which ended in 1980.
As of 2009 we can now look back at what happened to South Africa and it is wonderful to see that of the 2 scenario's that Michener thought most likely the (relatively) bloodless one emerged.
I especially enjoyed his section on South Africa under apartheid.
One should read this book just to see what a frace Apartheid was..The book as a whole kind of rambled on through 1000 pages of the history of South Africa.
I bought this book for 50 Cents in one of the nicest book stores ever. Too bad it's in Gold Beach, Oregon.
I wish my school history books had been written like this, with the insertion of fictional characters to bring story and life into what is normally a dull narrative.After a preface on the early Bushman who inhabited the land since pre-historic times, the story follows the lineage of the Afrikaner Van Doorn, English Saltwood and Zulu Nxumalo families, from the arrival of the first Europeans in the mid 17th century to the end of the 1970’s.
Once I started it I was fascinated by the brutal and bloody history of this beautiful country.The story is told through the lives, actions and beliefs of three extended, multigeneration families,( fictional but with some actual events) and gave me more insight as to how the reviled system of apartheid came to be.
Fanatical and firmly held religous beliefs considered the Blacks inferior in ability, fit only as servants or for menial labour by the Whites.The Coloured (people of mixed race)were considered tainted by the sexual sins of their ancestors and were confined to certain jobs and separate living areas.
The history is interesting and useful and has been a good companion to my travels in this country, but ultimately the characters are one-dimensional, and the stories seem forced, rather than developing in an organic way.
The author seemed more interested in writing a history textbook than a novel, and only took a cursory stab at describing the characters making their ways through their social spheres.
At no point did I emphasize with any character; instead I was forced by Michener to view them from a distance, which I think diffuses his whole purpose of making history accessible and immediate to a large audience.

I know some consider Michener a lightweight - in fact I don't know anyone else who enjoys reading him - but I have enjoyed learning a bit more about complicated social histories of a particular area. Piecing together the history of the Xhosa, Zulu and other natives in southern African, as well as the Dutdh and English colonisers was very interesting to me. I am more inclined to read such a book with human stories (if fictitious), than to pick up a non-fiction on the history of So. Africa. Anyone else out there enjoy Michener?
These colonies later formed part of the Union of South Africa During the later stages of the Second Boer War, the British pursued the policy of rounding up and isolating the Boer civilian population in concentration camps, one of the earliest uses of this method by modern powers.
No commercial area, these people had to buy from the whites in the city and commute by train.Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela born 18 July 1918) is a South African anti-apartheid revolutionary and politician who served as President of South Africa from 1994 to 1999.
Ugh. I loved Alaska, but would pass on South Africa.
talks predominantly about how the dutch adn french adn english invaded the country their intrarivalries as well as the rivalries they had in teh past with teh zulu and xhosa (and other african tribes).
if you think youve read the long walk to freedom and my tritors heart and think you know south africa then think again.
this book has deepdned my understanding of the complex country.
essentally the book pivots aroudn the belief that the calvinist dutch had that they were acting as God commanded and that it was their God given right to proselytize the coloured adn blacks adn others to their way of thinking and being.
Certainly the last time I read it was many, many years ago.
What ugly people.
The US and South Africa were settled at approximately the same time.
Origin of species and constant contact with outsiders made blacks in Africa less susceptible to European disease than their New World counterparts, I imagine.
Michener also did a whizzbang job fictionally painting why the New World developed one way and South Africa went another way.
Certainly not my favorite Michener.All historical epics again have to end, and in my mind Poland and The Covenant end the bleakest but the actual futures are the brightest.
Michener's take on South AfricaMichener's true epics are always worth the time to read.  The Covenant  is no exception. Michener's take on South Africa and its history is an honest attempt to give some perspective on one of the more complex histories that this history teacher has encountered.The book starts out strong (my edition was the two-volume hardback). The first volume was vintage Michener, but the second one dragged. Perhaps it was because the subject matter became more and more depressi
Michener's take on South AfricaMichener's true epics are always worth the time to read.
Michener's take on South Africa and its history is an honest attempt to give some perspective on one of the more complex histories that this history teacher has encountered.The book starts out strong (my edition was the two-volume hardback).
The first volume was vintage Michener, but the second one dragged.
With the final 200 pages or so being about Apartheid, it's hard to find something to cheer about.In a way, Michener's book seems incomplete - he hints that Apartheid could no longer stand - he gives a prediction that it would end by about the year 2000.
Great summary of the history of South Africa.
Michener's books in high school history class.
Having said all that though, I did not like that you could not connect with ANY characters in the book.
By the end of the chapter, the character that you were reading about is dead.
The time span in this book is over 500 years so it was more of a lecture and less of a story.
There were MANY little great mini stories and some characters I would have liked to read an entire story about, but that wasn't the case.
An understatement of the truth would be to say that reading Michener is an investment in time.
However, this novel is a must-read for anyone who wants to have a working understanding of the inhabitants, the history, and the culture of South Africa.
From day-one to the date of publication, the people of South Africa are illuminated by consecutive stories of the period and the land.
I read this book before a trip to South Africa in 2002 and it helped to make the trip more of an experience rather than just a vacation.
Absolutely must-read if you want to understand a tiny bit of the complex history and psychology of the people of South Africa. Especially the Afrikaner and English struggle to settle in SA,customs, psyche and historical tipping points and their effect on SA's history are very well captured. The African, black population is somewhat out of sight, and it would be great to have a sequel to this thoroughly researched book, this time with a focus on the anti-apartheid struggle and great humanity of its leaders. Big book, long read, but absolutely essential in SA literature, although written by an American...
This book is VERY in depth, to say the least. I read it as an academic requirement before studying abroad in South Africa for 3.5 months. I found myself wondering how much truth there was to the story Michener was telling. Turns out, a lot of it was quite relevant and accurate. However, I was frustrated with the overwhelming amount of detail the author put into little side-stories sprinkled throughout the entire novel. Overall, very well-written, but not my type of book.
I read another Michener novel once, and I liked how he was able to weave together a plot line along with the history. I don't think that concept worked as well here, in this book on the history of South Africa. I did learn something, and from time to time I was entertained, but there were implausible connections created only to tie disparate threads together and long stretches of dullness that seemed serve neither historical theme nor plot, nor character development.
I have spent a total of 2 years in South Africa. With the help of James A. Michener who provided the historical backdrop for this beautiful part of the world, I developed an enduring love for the country and its peoples. The richness of the narrative coupled with an incredibly fascinating insight into the trials of the characters kept me completely absorbed on those cold winter nights in Cape Town. I have read the book twice and a third reading must be waiting in the wings.
The novel is set in South Africa, home to five distinct populations: Bantu (native Black tribes), Coloured (the result of generations of miscegenation between white Afrikaner and Bushmen populations), English, Afrikaner, and Indian, Chinese, and other foreign workers. The novel traces the history, interaction, and conflicts between these populations, from prehistoric times up to the 1970s
A beautiful sad saga.A tenderly exposed saga of centuries of a beautiful land. There is care and concern in unfolding a long story. Rich and varied, the story is poignant, with some joys interspersed with a lot of inevitable tragedies - like the land it speaks of.
