https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12722.The_Moon_Is_Down
It is propaganda in affirmation of freedom, self-determination, and the indomitable will of people to persevere and overcome.PLOT SUMMARY:The story begins with a peaceful, democratic village swiftly invaded and occupied by aggressive, fascist army bearing all of the telltales of Nazi Germany.
THOUGHTS:The horror of war, the enduring strength of freedom, and the self-defeating process of using humans to impose “inhuman” oppression, these are the messages of Steinbeck's work.
His message, delivered throughout the second half of the story, is that the very nature of invasion and occupation give rise to the invaders downfall by reorganizing the previously self-interested and peaceful townsfolk into a cohesive band of freedom fighters.
The Moon is down, John Ernst SteinbeckThe Moon Is Down, a novel by John Steinbeck fashioned for adaptation for the theatre and for which Steinbeck received the Norwegian King Haakon VII Freedom Cross, was published by Viking Press in March 1942. The story tells of the military occupation of a small town in Northern Europe by the army of an unnamed nation at war with England and Russia (much like the occupation of Norway by the Germans during World War II). تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه سپتامبر سال 196
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه سپتامبر سال 1968 میلادیعنوان: ماه پنهان است؛ اثر: جان اشتاین بک، ترجمه: پرویز داریوش؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، سازمان کتابهای جیبی: موسسه انتشارات فرانکلین، 1341، در 182 ص، اندازه 11در5/16 س.م.، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی، سده 20 م، جنگ جهانی دوم، 1939 تا 1945 م؛ عنوان: ماه پنهان است؛ اثر: جان اشتاین بک، ترجمه: پرویز داریوش؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، اساطیر، 1365، در 162 ص؛عنوان: ماه پنهان است؛ اثر: جان اشتاین بک، ترجمه: پرویز داریوش؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، امیرکبیر، 1377، در 153 ص، شابک: 9640004626، 9789640004623؛ چاپ پنجم 1389؛ عنوان: ماه پنهان است؛ اثر: جان اشتاین بک، ترجمه: پرویز داریوش؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات علمی فرهنگی، 1384، در 161 ص، شابک: 9644456734؛ عنوان: ماه پنهان است؛ اثر: جان اشتاین بک، ترجمه: کریم احمدی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، عارف، 1362، در 192 ص، عکسعنوان: ماه پنهان است؛ اثر: جان اشتاین بک، ترجمه: احمد حسینی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ناژ، 1393، در 205 ص، شابک: 9786006110172؛نیروهای مهاجم وارد قصبه ای کوچک شده با کمترین خونریزی آنجا را تسخیر میکنند.
John Steinbeck published The Moon is Down in 1942.
While not directly naming either Norway or Germany, the reader understands that the setting is Norway during the Nazi German occupation, which began in 1940.
When the novel was published, Nazi German forces occupied much of Europe and North Africa and the Anglo-American and Russian allied forces had yet to check Nazi aggression and expansion.
The character Mayor Orden, a symbol of unassuming yet steadfast resistance and leadership, sums up the theme of the novel when he says: “Our people are invaded, but I don’t think they are conquered”.
Short and bitter sweet, The Moon is Down shows what becomes of docile countryfolk when they are invaded and subjugated.Not sure what to expect from this lesser known work by Steinbeck, my first impression after a few pages was that I was in for a light comedy, a sort of Catch-22 anti-war declaration, apparently with silly citizens and gullible army officers acting out a daffy pre-"Hogan's Heroes" farce.
But the main point is that those supposedly conquered should struggle against their oppressors.
Playing a soldier from an antagonistic army pushing himself on a woman from the conquered country would do it.
في مغيب القمر رواية كتبها جون شتاينبك ونشرت عام 1942 أثناء الحرب العالمية الثانية بلدة صغيرة يدخلها جيش الاحتلال لاستغلال مناجم الفحم الموجودة فيها, يحكي شتاينبك عن عمدة البلدة وأهلها البسطاء في مواجهة ومقاومة الاحتلالويصف حال جنود الاحتلال وما يدور في نفوسهم ما بين الشعور بالقوة والغرور, وبين العزلة والغربة ورغبتهم الشديدة بمرور الوقت للعودة لبلادهم وأهلهم الأكيد انه ما في شعب مسالم إذا ما تعرض هذا الشعب لاحتلال أرضه وفقد حريتههذه الرواية البسيطة كان لها أثر مشجع ومساند لسكان الدول التي احتلتها ألمانيا في الحرب العالمية الثانية
Πριν την πόλη είχε κατακτηθεί η χώρα και πριν τη χώρα η μισή υφήλιος.
Ένα μίσος που δυναμώνει, που είναι βαθιά στα μάτια του λαού, που φέρνει φόβο στην καρδιά και κάνει τους κατακτητές να φοβούνται τους κατακτημένους.
Ένα ψυχογράφημα είναι το βιβλίο αυτό του Στάινμπεκ, μια περιδίνηση στα τρίσβαθα του ανθρώπινου ψυχισμού.
Ένας ύμνος στην ανθρωπιά κι ένα τραγούδι ελπίδας που εν έτει 1942 (όταν και πρωτοδημοσιεύτηκε το βιβλίο) δεν μπορεί να υποστηρίξει κανείς ότι περίσσευαν στον κόσμο.
Τέσσερα ολόλαμπρα αστέρια στο στερέωμα του ουρανού, πλάι σε ένα φεγγάρι που έχει ήδη πέσει και μια δικαιωμένη αίσθηση ότι ο Στάινμπεκ δεν θα με απογοητεύσει ποτέ.
I must admit that my reading this year has been all over the place - some philosophical works, some Balzac, some classics, some indie titles, some surrealism - so when I reached for this unknown-to-me Steinbeck, I had no idea whether I was going to like it or not.
And as Steinbeck points out, the conquerors often win battles, but the conquered win wars, because they are not following a leader or an agenda.
Unlike the more contemporary books I read recently, The Moon is Down is written almost entirely as a dialogue between the various parties to the story.
The town was occupied, the defenders defeated, and the war was finished.
In Steinbeck's 1942 story of a small unnamed town invaded by an unnamed enemy, the war was far from finished.
Because of the ease the invading army had in taking the town, the officers assume that the local citizens will fall into line and accept them as their new rulers.
They have lived at peace so long that they do not quite believe in war.
They will learn and then they will not be confused anymore."Things turn ugly after an incident at the local mine, and the mayor's prediction comes true as the oppressed people begin to exact their revenge.
By September 1941 Steinbeck decided that he would write a work of fiction using what he had learned from European refugees about the psychological effects of occupation on people living in countries which had come under Nazi control.
After the war, the King of Norway gave Steinbeck a medal in honour of the influence of the work in Norway and it later came to light that although the Nazis banned the book, it was translated, illegally printed and distributed throughout occupied western Europe.
If anything, by portraying the occupying soldiers as human beings and not as monsters, Steinbeck showed that they could be defeated.The work has the feeling of a parable, almost of a fairy tale.
توصيفات فوق العاده جان اشتاين بك طوري بود كه همه چيز مثل يك نمايشنامه از جلوي چشمت رد ميشد...
با اينكه داستان رو خيلي ساده بيان كرده بود اما از همون اول، با شخصيتهاي شهر فتح شده، همذات پنداري ميكردي..
شما كه چنين كاري نميكنيد، ميكنيد؟ اوردن گفت: چطور مردم خبر دارند و خودم بي اطلاعم؟ دكتر وينتر گفت: اين خودش راز بزرگي است.
رازي كه همه فرمانروايان جهان را نگران كرده: مردم از كجا خبر دارند؟ طوري كه شنيده ام، خود اشغالگران هم نگرانند.
چطور اخبار برغم اينهمه سانسور پخش ميشود و حقايق خود را از قيد و بندها رها ميكنند؟ راز بزرگي است...

Loved it and very nearly rated it as a 5.
Written ostensibly as intelligent propaganda for the allies in WWII - and from reading the afterword in the edition I read, it was seemingly massively effective and influential in that context across many occupied countries.
Whilst being criticised as being over simplistic, I feel the book stands extremely well indeed as a novel in its own right - simply written and with such clarity, it goes to the heart of the human experience and is all the more powerful for doing so.
An overlooked classic in my eyes - don't miss.
“Alle dieci e quarantacinque tutto era finito.” .E’ così che Steinbeck comincia a raccontare di un’invasione che più che fisica è psicologica, di una guerra che non si vede ma si percepisce nelle coscienze, attraverso la paura, gli sguardi, i bagliori nella notte.
“Tu farai del popolo un uomo solo” .E quel veleno diventa paura, odio, voglia di tornare ad essere un uomo e non più un soldato e li sfianca.
Gli uomini liberi non possono scatenare una guerra, ma una volta che questa sia cominciata possono continuare a combattere nella sconfitta”.
Socrate sta andando incontro alla morte a testa alta, fiero del suo pensiero.
Free men cannot start a war, but once it is started, they can fight on in defeat. Herd men, followers of a leader, cannot do that, and so it is always the herd men who win battles and the free men who win wars. Such a thing is war where a haze creeps over our minds, a foggy mist of confusion that dilutes the outline of real versus unreal. Then some words are put together on makeshift pieces of paper to form a book that gets circulated stealthily and the strength is delivered. A strength which i
To put it simply: Through an anonymous pseudo plot, Steinbeck has written a simple yet powerful work on the Nazi occupied Norway during the WW-II.
But by this time, the book had found its way to western Europe as a stealth dagger to give it's people the much needed fuel to carry on the resistance.But, how does a man living thousands of miles away write something so simple yet powerful that most of a continent and even China for that matter, amidst the most cruel war of all time, recognize it as one of the indispensable contributors towards their independence?
«Ti ricorderai di pagare il debito?»Winter chiuse gli occhi per un istante, prima di rispondere:«Il debito sarà pagato».Per il sindaco Orden restare fedele ai propri ideali, non aver paura della morte, resistere alla tentazione di piegare se stesso in virtù della propria salvezza è la guarigione dal male più grande, quello della vigliaccheria e dell'ipocrisia, e solo così, portando simbolicamente il suo gallo ad Asclepiade, il suo debito sarà pagato.Ma quanto sarebbe bello vederla rappresentata a teatro?
Ενα βιβλιο με θεμα την αγριοτητα κ τη ματαιοτητα του πολεμου. Μια κατακτημενη πολη απο Γερμανους στρατιωτες. Μια πολη με φιλησυχους κ φιλειρηνικους ανθρωπους που ποτε δεν ειχε νιωσει καταπιεση κ υποδουλωση. Οι Γερμανοι δεν παρουσιαζονται ως αδιστακτοι, ουτε νιωθουν ικανοποιηση για τον τοπο που κατεκτησαν. Αντιθετα, επιθυμουν να τελειωσει ο πολεμος κ να επιστρεψουν στα σπιτια τους. Ειναι ενα καθαρο ψυχογραφημα του Σταινμπεκ. Μια νουβελα με αντιπολεμικο μηνυμα.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب، از 182 صفحه تشکیل شده است و پیامِ اصلی داستان، نبرد برایِ پیروزی و مبارزه در راهِ آزادیستداستانِ در موردِ مردمِ شهرِ « قصبه» و مبارزۀ آنها با اشغالگرانِ آلمانیست...
و مقاومتِ مردمِ « قصبه» برایم رشادت ها و دلاوری هایِ زنان و مردانِ مظلوم و بی آزارِ سرزمینِ عزیزم « ایران» را یادآوری نمودشهردارِ قصبه، « اوردن» گفت: تنها کارِ غیرِ ممکن در دنیا، در هم شکستنِ روحِ انسان به نحوِ دائمی استیادِ تمامی انسانهایِ آزاده و میهن پرستِ سرزمینمان « ایران» همیشه گرامی بادپیروز باشید و ایرانی

اما به جای تلاش برای رهایی از وضعیت پیش اومده بیشتر در منجلاب قوانینی فرو ‌می رفتند که عمل به اون ها به مثابه‌ی پرستش یک بت (پیشوا) براشون اهمیت و ارزش داشت.دیالوگ های رد و بدل شده ما بین سرهنگ آلمانی و شهردار قصبه جذاب ترین و به یاد موندنی ترین بخش داستان رو تشکیل میدادند.جان اشتاین بک از روح و قداست زندگی مینویسه.
Scritto nel 1942 quando l'esito della seconda grande guerra era ancora lontano e non si erano ancora fatte le ponderate considerazioni sulle diverse linee comportamentali seguite dai vari paesi interessati allo scontro, La Luna è tramontata è una lucida analisi della differenza fondamentale tra il libero arbitrio, tra la pretesa alla scelta di un popolo libero ("noi abbiamo tante teste quanta gente siamo e in momenti di necessità i capi sbucano fuori tra noi come funghi" pag.
La Luna è tramontata è un inno all'individualità della scelta, la comunanza tra uomini non è creata dalla consapevolezza di appartenere ad un solo squadrone ma dalla dignità che conferisce la scelta di agire secondo principi di giustizia, anche a costo della propria vita.
It's so timely as to be telepathic.One character literally remarks, regarding the town his troops are occupying, how he is puzzled that there were no flowers or candy thrown at the soldiers who "liberated" them, as everyone had promised they would.I mean, Come On, how can that not blow your mind, just a little bit?It was written as Allied propaganda during WW2 explicity at the request of the government, with Steinbeck's full compliance.It was contraband in Italy, where one could be put to death for transmitting it.
And it's immensely gratifying to know that for some, it actually did.It's not necessarily a literary masterpiece, but its of sufficient quality to be valuable as a piece of art than as a simple historical artifact.It's even sympathetic to the Nazi characters!
“We’ve taken a job haven’t we?”“Yes, the one impossible job in the world, the one thing that can’t be done.”“And that is?”“To break man’s spirit permanently.”
Breve, intenso, ricco di bellissimi dialoghi e soprattutto scritto con un linguaggio semplice, nonostante il tema della guerra potrebbe richiederne uno decisamente crudo e violento, ci parla di guerra senza mai parlare di sangue; un finale aperto, del resto la guerra non era ancora finita.Una condanna alla guerra ed esaltazione di un popolo che non accetta la perdita della propria libertà e lotta incessantemente, nonostante l’evidente disparità delle forze in campo.Il vero tema del romanzo non è la guerra, bensì i sentimenti che ne derivano: la libertà, la paura della morte, la nostalgia di casa, la necessità di compagnia.Ci sono delle situazioni buffe che rendono i personaggi ingenui e un po’ bizzarri e che strappano un sorriso: il sindaco che si veste elegante per ricevere gli invasori e non sa se offrire vino o caffè; la cuoca che rovescia acqua bollente sui soldati perché entrano in cucina; il minatore che non vuol prendere ordini e si ribella a colpi di piccone.
“Vedete, signore, nulla può mutare la situazione.
Voi sarete disfatti e scacciati...
And herein may lie the reason why The Moon is Down has been pushed to the fringes of Steinbeck's work, because the characters (at least two thirds of them) that Steinbeck wants us to relate to are Nazis inhabiting a town in the midst of WWII.
We all know the discomfort that comes with being able to empathize with or relate to Nazi characters, but that discomfort can only be intensified by the fact that Steinbeck himself never gives his occupiers the name Nazi.
A small town is forced to decide to what extent it will cooperate with a tyrannical invader. Powerful and haunting - evil has rarely been exposed in truer banality.
Kısa; ancak çok etkileyici bir kitap.
Her ne kadar İkinci Dünya Savaşı esnasında, o dönemle ilgili olarak yazılmış olsa da dünyada değişen pek bir şey yok.
İşgal görmemiş bir kasaba, madenlerini kullanmak amacıyla işgal ediliyor.
Aslında işgalci askerlerin bir kısmının da neden o kasabayı işgal ettiklerinden, ne yaptıklarından pek de haberleri yok.
Aslında bunları yapış amaçlarından biri de bir an önce evlerine, eşlerine, sevgililerine, alışkın oldukları ortama en kısa sürede geri dönmek.
Kitap okurken her iki tarafa da bir miktar empati ile yaklaşabilmenizi sağlıyor.
O dönemi düşününde oldukça ilham veren bir kitap olduğunu rahatça söyleyebilirim.
Nisam mislio da suštinski propagandni roman (sa tom namerom i otvoreno napisan) ikada može biti istovremeno i bajkovito Ljudska priča, sa velikim prvim slovom. Stajnbek sa zavidnom uzdržanošću (i na trenutke divno lirskim pejzažom) na sto i metalni kusur strana prikazuje okupaciju jednog malog nedefinisanog gradića od strane velikog nedefinisanog okupatora (iako je to očito naci švabo), sa možda i suviše “blagim” likovima, ali ispostavlja se da svaka ozbiljna književna kritika ovde pada u vodu, jer istorija ovog romana, njegov značaj, njegov uticaj na wwII evropu, govori o stotinu drugih romana koji u suprotnom nikada ne bi bili ispričani, napisani.4+
*Savaşın yıkımını görmüş yaşlı bir askerle, genç ve dinamik erlerin kafasına yerleşen insanları çok daha iyi koşullara kavuşturmak icin fetih yapıyoruz fikrinin yer yer çatışmasını,*Mağdur kesim olduğu söylenen küçük kasabanın halkının, birbirleri üzerinde oluşturdukları psikolojik baskıyı,*Şartlar lehine geliştiğinde insanın 'hiç yapmaz.' denilen işleri nasıl da yaptığını başarılı şekilde aktaran bir kısa romandı.
Or is my brain twisted?!Isn't it kind of funny that the value of propaganda, which is what this was when it was originally written in 1942, all depends on which side you stand?
This is the first time I have read propaganda that gets its message across through humor, and it is good!
Here is a little background information: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Moon...********************On completion:I thoroughly enjoy the ironical humor delivered in this book.
I believe Steinbeck has through humor achieved his purpose.
Heck, it was meant to be written as propaganda.
It certainly achieved its purpose.
This little novella was written in 1942 as a work of propaganda to assist the Allied war effort.
After the war, the work was more universally praised when it became apparent that it had greatly encouraged the resistance in Nazi-occupied countries.
The novella reads much like a parable and exhibits Steinbeck's skill in characterization and psychological sensitivity.
Anelito di libertàNorvegia. L'invasione nazista e il desiderio insopprimibile di libertà di un popolo.Scritto nel 1942, è un piccolo libro, un romanzo "minore", certo, ma è pur sempre il romanzo di un grande scrittore.E che scrittore, signori miei!
