https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/609870.The_Vow
I want to know: What made Krickitt decide to stay (besides the fact that she was a devout Christian - surely there was something inside her that said, I don't recognize this man, or this home, why don't I just start anew?) What was it like to fall in love again - what kinds of emotions led to this?I understand why they decided to take their story to the media - for one, they really did believe they could help people, and hey, after a major accident they are left them in financial ruins.
A very inspiring book. It was a very enjoyable read. It also shows just how the Lord Jesus works in our lives when we submit to Him. Sometimes we think what is happening isn't fair, but in the end, we can say, "all things work together for good to those who love God to those whoare called according to His purpose."
After completing this easy read I honestly wanted nothing more than to hug their necks and tell them Thank You for sharing such a courageous story of their infinite faith and devotion to each other and to God. But let me address the two most common complaints with this book.
It's Preachy: ok you are reading an amazing story of the miracle that God performed for this couple and their strong religious beliefs and faith are the very soul of this story.
There is no condemnation of your own beliefs in this book, Kim and Kricket are simply telling you their story that includes their faith.
Há o Amor pela família, pelos animais, pela natureza, pelos amigos, entre um casal, etc, etc...Também podemos pensar no Amor como um arquipélago que é capaz de ser outra abordagem originalComo veem , apesar de já muito badalado ainda é possível encontrar novas formas de falar acerca deste nobre sentimentoE ainda bem, porque senão um destes dias, logo que se falasse ou escrevesse sobre ele, os olhos e ouvidos fechar-se-iam o que acarretaria graves consequencias à felicidade de cada um...Uma vez introduzido o tema, falemos então sobre este livro:Sendo uma estória de amor verdadeira trata-se duma peça única Nenhum dos membros do casal envolvido escreve profissionalmente.
The movie is cute and Channing Tatum is a lot of fun to look at, but the love story in the movie completely leaves out the reason why they decided to keep their vows in such a terrible situation: they loved God and wanted to honor the commitment they made to him.
So the book centers on that theme: honoring God and being faithful.
It reminded me a lot of my parents and how my dad loved and cared for my mom when she couldn't care for herself.
It's stories like this that warm my heart and give me hope that people can really love others unconditionally.
I went into this book thinking it was going to be a Nicholas Sparks novel- I was so wrong. It is an incredible story but lacked the romance I was hoping for.
I don't read non-fiction, but I picked this book up thinking it would be better than the movie.
(I'm not in any way implying that the Carpenters are not well-rounded individuals, just that you don't get that from the book).Part of the reason I chose this book was because I caught part of an interview with the couple where they said they liked the movie but wish it paid more attention to the role their faith played in staying married.
Her family wanted them to stay together had they taken advantage of her memory loss the way Paige's family in the movie did, I'm not sure this couple would have made it.
But in many ways the thoughts and questions Kim had to work through are the same, the early days of my husband coming home were rough.
I feel the simple moments of the book show real and true romance and more importantly love.
True romance or love isn't the ripping off of clothes or the smoke of meaningless words.
The book reminded me to pull my faith to the forefront and to be patient with love because that's God's biggest plan for us .
God knows my place is beside husband today and always because of our vows.
Very, very inspirational book. It's amazing how the prayers were answered from God. "Krickitt's soul can't be affected by any injury because it's immortal. Her faith will always be there. It's there now. We've seen it. God has preserved her for some great purpose, and her faith is there to carry through." The ending paragraph of this book really hit me, I love this book. I can't wait to see the movie, I hope it's very inspirational like the book.
Being a reader myself and as im sure everyone thinks the same, books are always leagues aways from the movie..
So I started reading it, to make the story short I believe the movie will be better than the book.
Repetitive and dull and full of God and the bible, not a book about love at all, if romance is what you seek.
Anyways, the only reason to even consider this book is if you love God and faith and religion.
This is our March book club book.
After seeing the movie, I was very intrigued to read this book.
It's a quick read.
It's a great reminder that God is there for all of us.
One of my favorite quotes, ”We don't dwell on the bad times but look ahead to the amazing things we know God still has in store for us.” One more that I loved, ” if there is something missing in your life, seek the Lord.
If you once had him in your life And now he seems far away, guess who moved?
This book was a super quick read but it was for sure uplifting!! It reminds you that love can conquer all! We cant see the whole picture but He can, this book helps you in remembering to trust in God. Now to see the movie :)
I came to know this book when I watched the movie (which was good but could be better) and I was curious to read the real story from the real people.
The book is told by Kim Carpenter but not Krickitt and I wish that she had also told us her story and what she went through.
He tells us they fall in love again, but we don’t read it for ourselves.Apart from that, this is an amazing story, of survival and strength and love.
It’s an inspiring story and I glad I read the book instead of just watching the movie.
Heartwarming and inspirational.I like it, but some parts are somewhat redundant.
I love to see Him really work in my life, and I know He’ll use me in His due time.”9.
. .” they will respond with, “do the right thing.” -> Our second saying is, “It’s important to give it all you got.” We have learned that life is precious, so while we’re here we need to give all we have.
It’s about the Lord and how He brought my wife and me through a terrible time to a life that is greater than we could have ever imagined.15.
Life is a gift from the Lord and he is our refuge and strength in good times and bad, in sickness and in health.
Love doesn’t walk away….
Love doesn’t need a reason.
I vow to always hold you with tenderness & to have the patience that love demands.
I vow to love you.
When two people are meant for each other, no time is too long, no distance is too far, and no one can ever tear them apart.
Sometimes two people have to fall apart to realize how much they need to fall back together.Everything that I fell in love with is still there.
How do you look at the girl you love and tell yourself it’s time to walk away?
The novel much basically covers Kim's whole point of view the first few chapters were interesting especially on how they met, fell in love and then, when the accident happened, life changed especially when Krickitt's short term memory of being married to Kim had been wiped out from her memory.
I would love to know how they dated even special moments that they have especially when Kim had to go through the whole process of courting his wife whom doesn't even realise that they are married to each other.
Kim Carpenter tells the gripping story of his whirlwind romance and marriage to Krikkit, followed two months later by a devastating three-vehicle accident that put his new wife into a comma.
This is a book of great love and faith through huge obstacles that kept me glued to the page.
Kim is courageously honest in retelling the heartbreak and struggles for both him and Krikket and includes excerpts from Krikket's journals, though I would have loved to have heard directly from her.
It seems pedantic to mention some minor editorial glitches because this is an inspiring story of faith and love that lifts the heart and leaves one smiling.
Glad I read this book . . . different from what my usual read . . . and Kim Carpenter's right in his message - their story gives people hope. . . I admire his patience and his love for Krickitt . . .Overall: 4.0 stars!!!
This book is honestly just, amazing. I have no words. Tears are just everywhere.
However, after the book sat for months unread, I decided to pick it up and check it out for myself.This is when I discovered The Vow was based upon a true life story about Krickitt and Kim Carpenter.
From the smallest to the largest details, the movie was not what I had anticipated; an inspirational Christ-based story demonstrating God's miraculous power and grace.Instead, I was shocked to discover Hollywood twisted and distorted the true life event.
A few examples are premarital sex and living together before marriage.In addition, Hollywood tainted the movie, The Vow, by having Paige's father involved in an extra-marital affair, which actually never happened in the real life story.
She then suffers memory loss and forgets her husband Leo. Before the accident and before she was married to Leo, she had left her town and went into the city to gain a new education which her parents didn't agree with, which causes a troubled relationship with her parents.
The story of the married couple gets spread throughout the town.
Leo suffers financial issues after the accident and the community and baseball team raised a ton of money for the couple to stay financially stable.
Although, them remaining as a couple gets complicated seeing how Paige doesn't remember her own husband.
Also, she sounded normal in her journal, but not while speaking to Kim.Now for the Cons, people.
Krickitt wants to marry Kim again, and the only reason she wants to is because of the vow she's not even sure she made!
Plus, the description of the first proposal wasn't very descriptive and I couldn't picture what was going on.4) In one chapter, Kim's all "Let God help me; it's about what he wants." Then the next chapter: "Krickett, I told you to wait for me!
And Kim didn't pray to God about that either; he just wanted to do what he wanted to.
A message about how God can work in our lives and make our lives so much better if only we believe, trust and keep our faith intact even when those bad things happen in our lives.
Through a lot of prayer and an undying faith in God Krickitt recovers and so goes the story.What I loved about this book is that it has a very profound message for all who reads it.
I felt such a contentment reading this book.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone who likes to read.
That's one thing, but a minor one really if there weren't so many other problems.#1, the story IS interesting, girl gets in a wreck, loses her memory, forgets she's married, they fall back in love, yada yada yada.
If the story had been written either by a professional writer rather than her husband, or if it had at least included multiple perspectives it would have been perhaps readable.
Instead the story is written by Kim Carpenter, totally from his point of view, totally all about HIM which I found really annoying.
The more I read the more I reallllly disliked the husband.
The story alone is what kept me reading - Kim and Krickitt are inspiring people and the events surrounding their lives are tragic, yet also uplifting (in how the handled them).
Even as a short read, I felt like most pages after the accident were repeats of the same information/concept, written in almost the same way.I think the book would have benefited from some of Krickitt's perspective.
Really the inspiration of it all came from them both - they both should have been represented in the writing.This is definitely one instance where I'm fairly certain the movie will be better than the book.The story with the Carpenter's faith-centered, Christ-centered perseverance is what kept me reading.
They end up back in love, but it's like they have to start all over.
I have seen the movie to this book and i did not like it.
The movie changed many main details, and also many minor details that are vital to the story line.
The things that were changed that were a big deal, was how the two of them met and the car accident.
I would highly recommend the book of you don't mind crying a little.
I wouldn't change a thing about this book.
This book i would recommend for teenagers and young adult girls.
For me -and I don't want to offend anyone but- the movie just seemed more believable.
The book was more invested in the faith and God. Where the movie wasn't.
The movie was more into the characters - which I didn't felt like developed much in the book, though it had it's chance.
The book spends a lot time in the accident, recovery and before the accident life.
I just wanted to say that, it could had been a lot better.
It's one of those rare pieces where the movie does a better work then the book.
Reseña completaSi hay algo que no me agrada mucho de los libros de romance, es la idealización de los personajes.
Sin embargo, con este libro me he dado la grata sorpresa de encontrar a los protagonistas, muy reales y humanos; así que creo que este libro es romántico pero no llega al extremo de ser meloso.
Esto hace que leerlo no sea complicado, sino que más bien, te invite a continuar disfrutando de la lectura y a seguir a Kim y Krickit durante la aventura que significó su vida tras el accidente.
I was skeptical about this book.
Particularly since Nicholas Sparks was involved with the movie adaptation, and even the Nicholas Sparks movies I like tend to end with me openly weeping in the movie theater.
In spite of this, I felt compelled to give this book a try, and I'm so glad that I did.
In a world where we tend to glorify violence, cheating, and general discontent, it is so refreshing to read a book about a couple that worked through overwhelming odds.
This should be required reading for anyone who is married or thinking about becoming married in the future.
I really can't say enough good things about this book.
