https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82120.The_Worldly_Philosophers
(On the other hand, if you have an interest in the Econ 101 side of the subject, enroll in an Econ 101 course and learn about the “dismal science” from that vantage point: the relations between distribution and consumption; buyers, sellers, and markets; economic growth, inflation, and unemployment; and the microeconomic/macroeconomic and monetary/fiscal policy distinctions.)The book relates in an engaging and entertaining way the thinking of the important economists and economic schools: Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, the Utopian Socialists, Marx, the Victorians, Veblen, Keynes, and Schumpeter.
Each chapter includes a biographical essay on the economist(s) covered, how their thinking grew out of, or was a reaction to, prior economic theory, and a nice overview of the contributions they made.Heilbroner actually wrote the book as a free lance writer in the early 1950s, while he was in graduate school (studying economics, of course).

I had thought that the economic focus meant that some, maybe many of these thinkers were utterly shredded by Heilbroner, the economy was for Marx as for Smith a part of their overall vision, just looking at that fragment I felt misrepresented what they were about.The Victorian world a ragbag of Alfred Marshall, Francis Edgeworth, Frederic Bastiat, Henry George and John Hobson, here I think purely to transition in forty pages from Marx to Veblen.
Later he says that the labour theory of value had been completely disproven – I guess it would have been nice to have had this disproof presented in the pages of the book, rather than asserted.I’m really going to have to read more about Keynes – an utterly fascinating man and nearly absurdly intelligent.
Ο συγγραφέας, πρόσωπο με ευρεία γνώση και έξυπνο χιούμορ, σε όμορφη γλώσσα, υπέροχη έκφραση και ύφος, μας παρουσιάζει τα έργα και την ζωή των φιλοσόφων των οικονομικών θεωριών, με ακρίβεια στη γνώση αλλά και αναλυση της εποχής και των κοινωνιών που γέννησαν τα πρόσωπα αυτά και τις θεωρίες τους, των οποίων αποτέλεσαν και συνέπεια.
Μια οικονομική θεωρία δεν είναι ποτέ έξω από την εποχή της και αυτό καταδεικνύεται υπέροχα σε αυτό το θαυμάσιο βιβλίο.
Είναι παράλληλα και ένα πολύ καλό πρώτο μάθημα οικονομικών θεωριών και φιλοσοφίας, αφού τα οικονομικά αποτελούν πάντα μια νέα επιστήμη.
Γιατί άνευ καπιταλισμού δεν υφίσταται και οικονομία...Ποιον μπορεί να ενδιαφέρει μια ιστορία της οικονομικής επιστήμης, της φιλοσοφίας του οικονομικού πνεύματος; Όλους!
Blowback America's Recruitment of Nazis and Its Effects on the Cold War.)We know this is a hit piece in which the cold warrior lines up all of classical political economy against Herr Marx when--after frivolously suggesting that marxism acts religiously, even though all economics attempts to predict the future--he dicks up the summation of marxist theory: “For profits do tend to fall in an enterprise economy.
But labor power makes no sense in economics unless we say what the labor produces and whether or not it has any social value.
While that may be a fascinating fact about the amount of labor power and thought and creativity she put into these Goblin heads, I did not feel inclined to value them for that reason.
Probably for our own time period this is also far too simple an analysis of the toxic and volatile mixture of economic, political and social forces currently twisting and churning out of control, and by no means headed toward greater human enlightenment.
Increasingly, a certain section of the society began to be accorded more power: namely the ‘capital’ists, or those who were of the firm and simple belief that ‘capital’ accumulated by amassing profits ought to be reinvested to generate more profits.Smith’s vision of the economic world was benign, a self-regulating market model in which a combination of atomistic competition and self-interest ensured that the means of production were organized efficiently.
Read as an audiobook.As far as I know, this is an excellent and amusing introduction to economics.
As of this point, it's the best economics text I've read, which basically means that it's better than a semester's worth of Marxist apologists.It has been one of the leading textbooks for economics since it was published half a century ago, which either means it is remarkable and beyond reproach, or it is ill-informed, confused, and out-of-date.
212)I find myself greatly intrigued by the ideas of John Maynard Keynes, that ongoing investment (whether public or private) and the flow of currency from hand to hand to hand is what drives a capitalist economy (in which case, thank goodness for global markets and the communal stimulus of wikinomics).
In any case, I feel strongly that economic and social policy (public or private) should promote in some positive way one or more of the essentials for life (food, shelter, clothing, personal safety, and mutual tolerance) without sacrificing one or more of another.
In this book, Heilbroner tries to answer this question by surveying what he calls the worldly philosophers.
Heilbroner after that turns to the Victorian age and particularly to John Stuart Mill who envisions that capitalism will one day reach a point where it gradually and peacefully turns into a more socialist and benevolent system.
Meanwhile, the bourgeois Keynes dismisses all the anti-capitalist talk and asserts that capitalism will survive as long as governments keep on pushing it when it falters.
Having studied economics for the last 3 years, in all fairness to the professors and myself, I did imbibe the concepts of it. But all the theories were like little pieces of autarky islands. What was missing was a common thread that could join everything together such that it all ends up making complete sense. This book certainly helped a lot in doing so!
Actual organization and implementation was fitful and unstable, each manifestation lasting for a time and then disintegrating as various factions went their own ways, disenchanted by the narrowness of vision and intolerance of variation that the author and founder demonstrated.After carefully and clearly summarizing Marx’s arguments in Das Kapital, Heilbroner points out that Marx was not the architect of communism, that role falling to Lenin; he was rather the doomsayer of capitalism, tracing the reasons for and trajectory of its demise.
This book consists of a series of short biographies of such economists as Adam Smith, David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus, Karl Marx, Thorstein Veblen, John M. Keynes, Joseph Schumpeter etc. The accounts of their lives are studded with anecdotes and amusing asides which disguise the fact that the reader is actually learning classical economic theory painlessly.
Não deveria mesmo ter lido antes, acho que a maturidade ajuda a aproveitar mais o livro, sem dúvida alguma.
Um livraço para quem tem interesse em economia, diria leitura obrigatória para ajudar a formar contexto histórico do desenvolvimento das ideias em economia, com foco em alguns de seus protagonistas e filosófos mais proeminentes e conhecidos.
Um passeio que começa com Adam Smith, Malthus, David Ricardo, Marx, Mill, Keynes, Schumpeter, leitura fácil (para quem já tem algum background em economia), bem escrito, sem parcialidades.
É um livro para ser lido mais vezes, na medida em que a maturidade pessoal for avançando.
A fascinating book. Heilbroner effortlessly communicates the ideas of classical economic theory while providing the reader with amusing anecdotes about the men behind this theoretical development.
I would never even think of cutting my hours if I got a raise =)But overall the book is a living breathing history of economic thought and the interesting people who have shaped the way to the modern world.
A bit like Bryson's Short History of Nearly Everything, yet for economics.
Both are infused with just enough history, personality quirks, and good stories to make you feel the subjects are simply the most interesting available.
Perhaps your economics teachers, history teachers and science teachers deserve a good walloping for making such rich subjects so completely boring in high school.....
Like many weepy humanists, I don't read many books that deal with economics in a sincere, deep way (too dry, too mathy, the usual wimpy criticisms.) Heilbroner's overview is wonderful, not simply because he breaks down several notoriously byzantine, ideologically fraught economic world systems, but because he shows the reader the sincere human inquiries at the center of them.
What is our world like?
Is it possible to exert control over it?Economics in our age is, like so much else, polarized along militantly political lines.
Great book!! Reading it felt like being in the classroom with someone explaining to me the theories and everything. Many examples that make it easier to understand the points raised and I loved that it included biographies in it as well!!
Explores the development of economic theory3 September 2012 A friend at lawschool recommended this book to me after I had decided to read the works of Adam Smith and John Maynard Keynes in the hope that I could glean some ideas on how to become wealthy. My belief was that wealth lay in understanding the basics of economics, and when it came to economics, I believed that the basics could be found in a number of authors that my American History lecturer had mentioned who had been quintessential in
Explores the development of economic theory3 September 2012	A friend at lawschool recommended this book to me after I had decided to read the works of Adam Smith and John Maynard Keynes in the hope that I could glean some ideas on how to become wealthy.
My friend then recommended this book to me, and in a way I am glad he did because by reading this book I came to understand that there are more than just four people who developed the social science known as economics.
With seven editions over more than 60 years (Heilbroner died in 2005), this landmark book should continue to serve as an introduction and reference for years to come.The text flows chronologically, with ample references forward and back in time as necessary to provide context, starting with the smaller building blocks of economic thought prior to Adam Smith and progressing with separate chapters for Smith, Malthus and Ricardo, Marx, Veblen, Keynes and Schumpeter.
Thorsten Veblen has a chapter, but Milton Friedman, John Kenneth Galbraith, Paul Samuelson, Daniel Kahneman, Amartya Sen and others receive scant or no attention.A landmark book that can be enjoyed by both seasoned professionals and those new to the field.
Next he explains the views of Malthus who did a lot of work on population growth and it effects on economies and David Ricardo who argued against the system of landowning and how their theories turned the viewpoint of their contemporaries from the optimism based on adam smiths work into pessimism based on predictions that it would be difficult to improve the lives of poor individuals because of population growth and the structure of the society.
I had hoped for good biographical sketches on world's best ever economists before beginning this book but was pleasantly surprised to find out that it was much more than just that.
Heilbroner essentially deals with the historical development of economic theory through the work of some of its greatest exponents.
The author does well to divorce Marx's work from later day Marxists.
The chapter on Keynes gives us a relevant insight into the economics of the inter war years.
I just hope that someone good enough adds chapters on Friedman and Hayek to the existing work to round off this excellent introductory work.
The subtitle of this book: "The lives, times & ideas of the great economic thinkers." Here, Robert Heilbroner, in an accessible manner, addresses the work of key economic thinkers. Among these: Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, David Ricardo, Karl Marx, Thorstein Veblen, and John Maynard Keynes. For readers who wish to get a better sense of differing economic thinkers, this is a good entree to that world.
(The life of Thorstein Veblen in particular is a delight.) Here are some unsystematic notes I took, mostly about Marx:1) Capitalism is based on constant instability, a series of crises (what another might call creative destruction...) in which the system only works provided you have a) constant growth and b) constant technological innovation.
(This is maybe the most popular argument for capitalism, but it's true.) Perhaps you can point to a decline in living standards for a certain class over a short time span - say, the middle class has less real income today than 30 years ago - but it's always narrowly focused, and usually the result of an unusual boom or unsustainable welfare policy.
First rate introduction, NOT to the key ideas, but to the key personalities, of economics.One caveat: it looks like a popular book, but it is not. Suggest reading with a pencil to underline the key theoretical passages to re-read more carefully on the second pass.
A not-far-from comprehensive summary of the most notable economists of our civilisation; of the individuals that, in their own individualised and unique way, formulated the foundational theories which are still used as a basis of reference today.
Great book about economics. Goes through all the major economic principles and the history of how economics evolved by telling the story of the greatest economists that have ever been.
The cumulative history of economic thought distilled down to one definitive volume.
Heilbroner has captured the essence of these worldly philosophers, and, in expressing their creative fire, has presented much content to inspire the reader's own muse.
Part lucid economic theory, part impeccably painted biographical portrait, and part history grounded in the most robust analysis that social science can provide, The Worldly Philosophers in the magnum opus of a great mind.Highly recommend to students of economics, philosophy, history, politics, and anyone who wants to understand today's world with fresh eyes.
Read in the last semester of my undergraduate studies in economics, I enjoyed the historical tour de force through the lives and times of the greatest dismal scientists.
Heilbroner, a political economist, is of the breed I more identify with than the empirical data scientist which constitutes the majority of economists today.
Perhaps I gleaned more than the average reader having studied the stuff for four years now, but Heilbroner is accessible to any level of subject matter knowledge.
