https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32103.Lady_of_Quality
2.5★I have a theory about this title.If it's one of the first Heyer's for a reader they often love it, as even a lousy Heyer is superior to most historical romances on the market. If you have already read & loved some of Heyer's finest works it is likely you will be disappointed.& I fall into the later category.My father gave me this beautiful edition  (brand new at the time) for my sixteenth birthday! How eagerly I fell on it & started reading, only to soon realise it was nearly as
If you have already read & loved some of Heyer's finest works it is likely you will be disappointed.& I fall into the later category.My father gave me this beautiful edition 
This time it was the heroine Annis I didn't like.
Oliver is just a less well drawn edition of two of Heyer's heroes Charles (The Grand Sophy) & Max (Faro's Daughter) In fact I could find the original of most of the characters in this book in other Heyer novels.
The hero & heroine spend very little time together as I really don't think Heyer (elderly, unwell & probably sick of Regencies) knew what to do with them.Only positives.
Or if she is of average looks, she must be only quietly witty, never think of herself and serve everyone else to death, and of course as soon as the hero comes on the scene everyone discovers that she's beautiful after all after one scene where she is forced to dress up- because of course she would never do so unless she was forced!
And then it turns out that she is like girl A after all, just nobody knew?
You don't need to justify your heroine at every turn, Heyer!
Just what I needed during a rainy February.
I always get in a subconscious funk at this time of year, & then realize it is when my mom had a health crisis while I was living in England.
Anyway, although this is my first re-read of this since my first read way back when, I enjoyed it more.
I very much enjoy Annis, Oliver, found Maria to be one of the all-time annoying characters & hope they find a place for her where she does not drive our happy couple mad...perhaps with a slightly deaf person?
All in all, just what I needed.
I can't recall if there is another book of Heyer where are so long talks between main hero and heroine.
There wasn't a force which could have forced me to take a break when I was reading one of this dialogues.Second component are monologues of Miss Farlow.
I read it spellbound and with a big smile on my mouth.
In all Heyer's books I have read until now all love stories (not only main) have endings.
(hide spoiler)] But it makes the book more unique.I don't put it on my shelf with the best Heyer's Regency romances but just behind them.
Lady Of Quality is a cute historical romance featuring two characters who can't seem to talk normally when they meet. I liked their every meeting. The bickering was one of the things that make this book better.What drove me nuts is the way people allowed the most annoying person in the world to manipulate them (Annis's cousin Maria). It is humorous at first, but later it gets tiresome.I don't have a lot to say about the book. It's is one of those you can breeze through.
This book, the last one written by Georgette Heyer, is essentially the same plot as the far superior Black Sheep, but it nevertheless was a pleasure to listen to. Eve Matheson is a good narrator, although not in the Kate Reading or Roslyn Landor class. [OT: I do wish Eve had narrated Black Sheep, as it is one of my favorite Heyers, and the audio version was done by Barbara Leigh-Hunt. She is a marvelous actress, but her voice is and ever will be that of Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and she sounded far too old to be the heroine.]
A strong independent woman who knew what she wanted and went after it.
Leaving her brother's house to live alone was an unusual decision for a woman of the time.
She came across as hard and uncompromising at times but I think that had to be her outward appearance in the world she lived in.
He was brash and rude beyond what was needed and I thought Annis was too good for him.
She was a wise woman who knew how to handle her 'stuffed shirt' husband.
He would have thought he was in control but she was pulling a lot of the strings.
Heyer’s style of writing draws the reader into her regency world and immerses us into this different time with wholly different standards of behavior, station, and living.
And, being me, I always enjoy authors who don’t try to bash me over the head with data like I’m an idiot!Her hero, the rake Oliver, was truly not the focus of this book.
Maybe that’s because love and our ideas of what love is (and isn’t) don’t really change?“Lady of Quality” is considered the last full-length regency novel Georgette Heyer penned.
The best part about the book is the anti camaraderie between Miss Annis Wychwood and Mr Oliver Carleton.
The parallel story of Lucilla and Ninian had made my mind up that they may actually be married by the end of the book, but no such turn of events is to be noticed here.Overall, anyone looking for a fun and quick read and also wants some quality conversations and dialogues, this is the book for you.
Very enjoyable time with interesting characters and a romance.STORY BRIEF:Annis is 29, single, and financially secure.
The story begins with Annis traveling to Bath to set up her new home.
Lucilla:On the way to Bath, Annis sees a carriage with a broken wheel.
Lucilla is running away to Bath to take a job as companion to a woman to escape the marriage.
Annis suggests Lucilla become Annis’ companion instead.
Instead of companion, Annis acts more like a guardian and chaperone for Lucilla.
Annis arranges a party to present Lucilla to the social circle in Bath.
Annis also arranges outings and other things for Lucilla.3.
2018 Re-read - 2 stars Not as horrid as I remembered, but still not Heyer's best. She doesn't allow subtlety to move her characters but has her heroine spend paragraphs analyzing her own emotions. I like her relationship with her brother, however. 2011 Review - 1 Star Worse Heyer book I've read yet. Disliked the herione, the hero lacked what some of Heyer's better guys had. Gahhh. All the characters were insipid. The only part I liked was when the brother thought the companion was drunk >.&gt
2018 Re-read - 2 stars Not as horrid as I remembered, but still not Heyer's best. She doesn't allow subtlety to move her characters but has her heroine spend paragraphs analyzing her own emotions. I like her relationship with her brother, however. 2011 Review - 1 Star Worse Heyer book I've read yet. Disliked the herione, the hero lacked what some of Heyer's better guys had. Gahhh. All the characters were insipid. The only part I liked was when the brother thought the companion was drunk >.> that was slightly amusing.
Two authors that I simply must engage with in the summer months:Georgette HeyerP G WodehouseFormulaic. Do not read this and think that this is all Heyer is about.
I really liked that Oliver recognized that he, rake that he was, loved Annis and wanted to spend the rest of his life with her, and that he also understood why she was reluctant to accept his love and to acknowledge hers.This book delved a little more deeply into the serious problems experienced by unmarried women, especially those who were not financially independent.
Annis had the money and background to allow her to live independently, although even here she had to employ an older female companion in her household if she wanted to be accepted in society.
Lady of Quality bears a lot of the shorthand for a lot of Heyer novels, so I was curious if it came towards the beginning or end of her career.
But this came towards the end of her career and I think it suffers from treating all of these elements as shorthand.
For example, early on the book introduces us to a young lady escaping a forced engagement!
I will admit that the charm of this book is how Heyer writes dialogue and creates charming women and dashing men.
Her hero is reasonably typical of her work, but I did like that despite his gruff ways and rude behaviour, he was very capable of understanding the heroine's feelings and giving her space to work them out.I recognise a lot of this stuff from Heyer's other novels, though, which is a little sad.
But since I've read them in no particular order, that's not very likely -- and there is still something compelling about even the least of Heyer's work, from the silliest of her characters to the most rakish.
It's true that it resembles Black Sheep: it takes place in Bath, the heroine is on her late twenties and the romance develops gradually from the heroine's point of view and doesn't finish abruptly like most Heyer's romances do. It has many funny moments especially where the companion, Miss Farlow, is involved. One of my favourites.
Annis befriends the pair and takes young Lucilla under her wing.
Lucilla's uncle Oliver Carleton, the rudest man in London, arrives in Bath and barges his way into Annis's well-ordered life.
The pair are forever at odds yet they seem to share the same sense of humor and enjoy trading witty barbs.
Why then does Mr. Carleton insist on staying in Bath?
The dialogue between Annis and Oliver is quite witty and made me smile.
I love comedy of manners plots and no one did it better than Heyer.
I loved Black Sheep.
This is my first Georgette Heyer book, and I must say that it makes me want to read more of this great author's works.
I found it quite witty, and I believe it somehow reveals Heyer's clever mind.Annis Wychwood is an intelligent, independent and wealthy maid, the type of heroines I truly respect and adore.
Nevertheless, I so like to know about those ancient people's lives, so it kept making eager for more.
Eve Matheson does a wonderful job on this audio version of Georgette Heyer's Lady of Quality.
I love listening to Heyer's books on audio in part because of the way the language flows: the accents and the vocabulary are such a nice change..odd, funny, sometimes challenging and often beautiful.
I love to lose myself in the time and place, as well.
The romance in Lady of Quality is typical Heyer in some ways, but it also differs by taking up a little time over the declarations of love than some of her novels.
My 31st Georgette HeyerAt 29 years of age, the beautiful almost-spinster Annis meets Lucilla Carleton and Ninian Elmore.
Lucilla is running away to Bath to avoid her marriage to Ninian, a match that her aunt is trying to presure her into, and Ninian is escorting her to ensure her safe arrival.
Annis volunteers to chaperone Lucilla and notifies the girl's other guardian of her plans.Even though this premise has been explored before in Black Sheep, I enjoyed the banter and the fact that the independent heroine has to consider the pros and cons of marriage and does not rush into it.
I was immensely pleased to have seen that "Borrow Box" offers nearly the whole range of Heyer's books as eAudios.
Easy to download and and carry on your phone.
Lady of Quality was the third I downloaded and listened to books I read over 15 years ago.
'Arabella' I've enjoyed very much, both as a book and also the narration.
This one, 'Lady of Quality' was a disappointment.
Could not listen long to the narration of Eve Matheson, so I switched to the written word, but even that did not give the thrill of the first read.
The plot of that Heyer romance was simpler and less tangled than most.The characters were what she excelled at: an older on-the-shelf almost-spinster witty woman, an ingenue and her guardian, a profligate rake with limited social skills or more to the point a limited willingness to exert himself with social niceties and politenessTheir encounters led to funny banter for which GH is well known.
What I liked the most about this book is that the leanness of the plot gave more room for the feelings and doubts of the heroine regards the "abominable" hero to develop.
Compared to other books, less adventure and more romance
There were parts that were funny and charming but mostly this book felt unfinished and vaguely unsatisfying.
Re-read January 28, 2017A perfect book for me to read while recovering from the flu.
Heyer has a charming enthusiasm for Victorian slang and terminology, which she uses with far more abandon than any actual Victorian authors did.
The effect is a bit like having "<3 <3 OMG I LOVE ARCHAIC VOCABULARY <3 <3" thrown in every four or five paragraphs; it makes you happy that that author is having so much fun, but is hardly calculated to help you lose yourself in the tale.
SPOILER ALERT: There is not a single surprise or twist of any kind in this book.
It's good to read a story this straightforward occasionally, to keep surprises and twists from losing their punch through sheer ubiquity.
This one still rates 3.5 stars for me, as in I really liked it, but not quite loved it compared to some other Heyer books.I liked Annis Wychwood, the lady of the title, and there were several enjoyable typical Heyer "types": the high-spirited yet sweet-natured young ward, Lucilla; her would-be swain and childhood playmate, Ninian; the loyal, tough old servant, Jurby; the annoying, incessantly chattering, family dependent Miss Farlow; and the pompous, persistent suitor, Lord Beckenham.
I really couldn't see what could've made Annis fall In love with him except he was rude and outspoken compared to her previous suitors - not my cup of tea at all, but apparently it worked for her.
The book is chock full of emotions of all sorts, and I found Annis's cogitations on marriage versus independence very believable and quite fascinating.
Miss Heyer does a truly fine job of explaining the etiquette of the time she is writing about, and I recommend this book to any author who wishes to write an historical romance set in this period, since so many authors today don't seem to understand the do's and don'ts of the time and have their heroines doing things that would have them labelled as wild to a fault and beyond redemption, not independent and self-confident, as Annis is.
Lady of Quality wasn’t my favorite Heyer novel.
It seemed a little boring most of the time and only livened up when Mr. Carleton and Annis were sparring, when they weren’t together the story kind of dragged by.
I am not really a fan of “rakes” and don’t find it romantic when they are purposing they are promising never to stray again.
This story was packed full of Heyer’s trademark odd vocabulary, more so than usual.
Normally I don’t mind spending the extra time reading an Heyer novel, but this one seemed a little more tedious and I was looking forward to finishing it so I could go on to other books.
Georgette Heyer is easily as good, if not better, at writing a Regency romance as Jane Austen.
I've read four of her novels in the past - Venetia which is the one which people always recommend, The Toll Gate which is fabulously written, Bath Tangle which really shows how women were treated back then and An Infamous Army.
An Infamous Army is often cited as one of the very best fictional accounts of that particular battle.Back to Lady of Quality.
But then someone comes into her life and turns it upside down...It's an unashamed romance and it's fantastic.
Annis and Oliver are fun to watch as they develop a romantic relationship, mostly because even love fails to make them act sappy or soupy or simple-minded.
The first time I read it left me feeling out of sorts, though, because Oliver is abrupt and rude, and I didn't understand how she could fall in love with him.
Annis' independence stands at the heart of this story, and it's the way she deals with the life she's built and the plans she's made in the face of this new intruder that creates tension.The supporting cast is also fun, though some of the threads feel dropped rather than tied off at the end.
