https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124674.Secret_Seven_Win_Through
*drumroll* It's the seventh book in the series....and guess what the mystery is? THIEVES. I kid you not. Seven books, and each time they've caught a different thief. Their county must be rolling in them, and stupid ones too who leave the most obvious clues to their crimes EVER. Haha, sorry, I'm just annoyed because over the years I rarely read any of the Seven books, much preferring the Famous Five, and now I see why. They've all been the same! What will the next book bring?
Since I had to listen to this in the car yesterday on the way home from holidays (for about the fifth time), surely I'm allowed to put it on goodreads!? Enid Blyton is very big with my daughters these days.I must say the Secret Seven were quite horrid to Susie, so I'm glad things turned around in the end.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
The plot is like this:-As the SS meeting shed is under repairs, the secret seven group discovers a nearby cave that is away from the masses and a very good hideout for conducting the meeting but they soon discover that things start getting stolen from their secret hideout and catch a trail of criminals who steal the valuable mailboxes.
There are some flaws in the book but I mostly like it as it is realistic.
It would be much more better, if the antagonists or the criminals are introduced a little earlier and their character is suitably built.
The seven are back in book seven and are as annoying as always in their superior manner but there is more Susie in this book and she is certainly the highlight of the series, more pranking by Susie I say! I imagine this written today Susie would be getting the Seven even more and everyone would be telling Peter to shut up and pull his head in, the arrogant ponce! ha ha.
3.5
Good.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
The Secret Seven move their headquarters10 September 2014 Well, I am slowly making my way through the remainder of the Secret Seven books that I never read (because I only ever read the first three as a child) and the Famous Five books that I have (because my parents had bought me the entire collection). Still, I am wondering whether I should get some other Blyton books once these ones have been completed, though in the end the only other one I wish to read would be the third Wishing Chair book,
Still, I am wondering whether I should get some other Blyton books once these ones have been completed, though in the end the only other one I wish to read would be the third Wishing Chair book, namely because I only have two of them and it would be nice to finish off the collection (as well as get the edition so that it matches with the other two books – maybe I should start looking on Ebay – though I have since discovered that it is a posthumous publication of stories from other sources).
I would suggest that the first half involves the Secret Seven playing games while the second half involves them solving a crime, but it becomes evident that things are not going all that well when Jack discovers that one of his Famous Five books has gone missing.
The language used is somewhat informal, but has a great sense of meaning in it.The story sets out during the season of Easter, with seven members and a dog belonging a secret society who are very eager to solve problems that create problems to the pubic.(view spoiler)[They lose their meeting place and start looking for a new one, eventually finding many locations including an old hut, a boat house, a caravan and a cave.
But after some time, their books and food start disappearing.
(hide spoiler)]The book is suitable for a young audience, and takes a very less time to be read.
Young detectives for grown-up mysteriesMeet Peter and his sister Janet, Jack, Barbara, George, Pam and Colin. A group of child detectives that will get tangled in all sorts of adventures that will make them juggle school attendance, homework, and the ineffable desire to solve the mysteries they stumble upon. Juvenile sense of wonder, the principal ingredient in Enid Blyton works, is a guarantee of a good moment for readers of all ages.Here, the Seven in need for a new meeting place find a good cave for their purposes… but somebody else is using it too!
This is the first Secret Seven book I've read as an adult. Peter is such a patriarchal little prick I had trouble reading this to my six-year-old without wincing, and eventually my own lack of enthusiasm must have shone through because she lost interest in it, also.For a story about boyhood and good old-fashioned robbers and adventures in caves, I recommend The Adventures of Tom Sawyer instead. Though for independent readers who are not up to the phonetically spelled dialogue in Tom Sawyer, which is really quite challenging, this book might be a good bridge.
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
Why I liked the book is because: It was a simple to read and it was not a complicated storyline to understand. I also liked how the author described the characters. Why I disliked the book : The book didn't have very strong words in it and the storyline was not exciting or suspenseful to make it interesting.
A very typical and formulaic Secret Seven adventure, in which Susie (Jack's annoying sister) once again proves that she is much cleverer and would make a far better detective than the Secret Seven themselves.
Another kid's book! It's like Nancy Drew all over again! But the only difference is that I read this one as a kid and I enjoyed it, I really did. Hence the three stars. Sorry Nancy...:P!Interesting characters! I really enjoyed it when I read it. It was a cool one!
I remember that I really like reading enid's when I was kid, but maybe now I'm too old to enjoy this kind of book (LOL)..still it was goodthe adventurous story made me envy those who had such thing in their childhood :D
Exciting and interesting especially scamper scampering around!
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
I love this one with the Guy Fawkes night
This is one of the most exciting books I have ever read which made me complete reading it in the library for about 1.5 hour or less.
The one with the secret cave within a cave.
good
enid blyton is an europe author and she is one of my favorites... all her books are a must read... this one is a mystery about the secret seven...
love it
Thrilling.Thrilling.ThrillingLoved it!
I tend to find the Secret Seven a bit too young for re-reading as an adult, but this wasn't bad.
A mysterious and interesting book. Although Susie's behavior was not liked be secret seven, she only helped to solve the mystery. A very nice book.
Loving reading these to my 8 year old.....I used to love them as a kid too.
