https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250041.Miss_Lonelyhearts
I have read it three times, at least, and each time I have a slightly different reaction to it.The novel's main character is an advice columnist--hence the name "Miss Lonelyhearts"--who is going insane under the weight of his disordered life and the burden of the letters from desperate souls, piled on his desk every morning, On the surface it is a stark condemnation of the American Dream more disturbing than Fitzgerald or Steinbeck, made brutal by its hard-boiled prose, and brought close to apocalypse by a hero obsessed with Christ's wounds and the necessity of blood sacrifice.
Il successo, di critica e pubblico, arrivò postumo: e oggi lo si mette tra i grandi classici del Novecento americano.Monty Clift insieme al suo caporedattore Shrike interpretato da Robert Ryan.La trama di questo breve romanzo ruota intorno a una delle più classiche rubriche di giornali e riviste, la posta del cuore.
Harried by one, they are hurried by the other..."The letters-to-the-editor, largely illiterate, describing the personal misery and failures of the public at large pour on to the desk of the advice columnist, Miss Lonelyhearts.
Treating the world as a joke is generally what the world does but Miss Lonelyhearts simply can't do that.
Shrike, his editor, suggests the only available path, "The church is our only hope, the First Church of Christ Dentist, where He is worshiped as Preventer of Decay."One has to remind oneself repeatedly while reading it that Miss Lonelyhearts was written in 1933.
This is another book that has disappeared from my shelves.
GR insist on treating each instance of this as though I might have deleted the book 'by accident' or it's a one-off bug, but I have lost a lot of books and I'm not the only one.
I suspect it has something to do with either librarians combining books or changing the names of authors, correcting them.
But I can't quite work out how.
However I can't think of any other actions that would affect just the odd book and not a lot of books wholesale.I remember the book as being a work of genius.
Don’t be misled by the title and the cover.
This short book takes a hard look at serious human issues.
Published in 1933 during the “Great Depression”, Miss Lonelyhearts is a dark comedy making light of readers problems.
The unnamed narrator and writer of the column is a man.
The newspaper considered the advice column a joke, and so did the writer at first.
He sums it up best in a conversation with a lady friend, and I’m paraphrasing here.
“After a time he doesn’t consider the column a joke anymore.
He realizes the readers take him seriously and he is forced to examine his own life’s values.
Book Circle Reads 100Rating: 4.75* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Praised by great writers from Flannery O'Conner to Jonathan Lethem, Miss Lonelyhearts is an American classic.
While telling a louche little tale of drinking, fucking, and cheating, West also manages to incorporate an acid bath of gallows humor into the proceedings.
His nudges and winks at the audience are almost post-modern: Shrike, who is the otherwise-unnamed Miss Lonelyhearts' editor, is named for a particularly nasty bird of prey, and the man we call Miss Lonelyhearts is both emasculated and depersonalized by his yclepture.It's hard to imagine a more complete telling of the tale of man's bitter fate than this one.
اسم الرواية الأصلي: Miss lonely hearts بأعجوبة ما أصبحت ترجمة اسم العمل : الآنسة القلوب الوحيدة :|يعني بجد؟ ليه؟ يرضي مين دا طيب؟ ****************************“He read it for the same reason an animal tears at a wounded foot: to hurt the pain.” هذا الاقتباس هو ما دفعني لقراءة العملوالغلافجائزة أجمل غلاف من قراءات العام تذهب إليها..قصة جيدة، ترجمة قاتلة مريعة
A popular notion that makes the rounds on Facebook goes something like this:  Life doesn't come with a remote. If you don't like something, get up off your (couch) and change it. Last Sunday's Prickly City comic strip expressed it this way:"I was wondering: Why do you let bad things happen?""Why do you let bad things happen""Touché." Prickly City, August 9, 2015But, what if one is confronted with horrific circumstances way beyond one's pay grade? And really believes it's one's personal responsib
But that trope won't hunt, so he's seeking a lock on a love that heals...but what sort of miracle could restore them, engulfed in a sick society?My edition included an afterword from the '60s by Stanley Edgar Hyman, a critic and contributor to The New Yorker who was well known at the time.
Scott Fitzgerald died without knowing he'd later be considered great, so much the more so for Nathanael West.Incidentally, I came across an interview with Judy Blume at the beginning of The Best American Nonrequired Reading 2008 in which she said:I once spent three years putting together a book of letters: (Letters to Judy: What Kids Wish They Could Tell You) from my readers.
- però se quest'empatia viene meno devo trovare tra le pagine dell'altro, un interesse che mi trascini a fondo, uno stile che mi faccia rammaricare di non aver scritto io quelle parole, oppure un'attrazione fatale inspiegabile, mentre qui ho trovato solo noia, sbadigli e una dose massiccia di confusione.Per quanto me ne importava, alla fine, alla Signorina Cuorinfranti, avrebbero anche potuto sparargli.Ops!
Charged with Meaning; Lefty Leaning"I don't really like to stop the show But I thought that you might like to know That the singer's going to sing a song And he wants you all to sing along""Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band," Lennon-McCartneyI wasn't nearly as enamored by this 1933 eighty-page novella, full of existential black humor, as the Yale prof/lit critic Harold Bloom, primarily because Nathanael West couldn't hide his contempt for all religion nor his scarlet leanings.
Art is distilled from suffering.” Miss Lonelyhearts, Nathanael West Exacerbating Miss Lonelyhearts' depression is his conviction that his advice column is merely a farce perpetrated on the public.
Signorina Cuorinfranti Miss Lionelyhearths, anche se la traduzione esatta sarebbe Signorina Cuorisol
Miss Lonelyhearts, a man known only by the name of his agony aunt style column, is deeply affected by the letters from his readers.
Keys yearn to mix with the changeThe overtly tragic comic tone of this tale is what makes it a win.
Although dreams were once powerful, the have been made puerile by the movies, radio and newspapers.And soon after this, he begins his descent down loony land.
However, when you are not particularly affected by it, you can laugh it all off and Miss Lonelyhearts gives one plenty of opportunity for that.
While reading my last book, The Man in the High Castle, a character was asked if he read "Miss Lonelyhearts"(ML) by Nathanael West which he replied he never read that story, so he could not tell the Asian couple the meaning of it.
You get a feeling right off how dark & perverse this book is right away with the extremely sad letters written to the Dear Abby of this story, "Miss Lonelyhearts".
It is quite strange throughout the book that this male is called Miss, which gives a bizarre feeling & I kept having to tell myself the facts about his sexuality.
Indeed, I was startled by how explicit West is in his language and his sexual situations; this in no way feels like a book from 1933.
(And you have to love the metaphor “his fat cheeks like twin rolls of smooth pink toilet paper.”) West’s picture of how beleaguered compassion can turn to indifference really struck me, and the last few chapters, in which a drastic change of life is proffered but then cruelly denied, are masterfully plotted.
My copy, a 2014 Daunt Books reissue, has been given a cartoon cover and a puff from Jonathan Lethem to emphasize how contemporary it feels.
There is a section where Shrike effectively tortures Miss Lonelyhearts with narrative, telling story after story of other lives, possible lives, while Miss Lonelyhearts lies in bed suffering from an illness that may or may not be entirely spiritual.
Then you've got the letters to Miss Lonelyhearts, themselves also narratives of other lives, of suffering lives, though these are nothing like what Shrike puts together, the slick, generic productions he uses to torment and to distance himself from humanity, his dead pan.So that's going on.Then, there are these little moments within the writing itself at which I just marvelled.
It is an Expressionist black comedy set in New York City during the Great Depression.”“In the story, Miss Lonelyhearts is an unnamed male newspaper columnist writing an advice column, which is viewed by the newspaper as a joke.
As "Miss Lonelyhearts" reads letters from desperate New Yorkers, he feels terribly burdened and falls into a cycle of deep depression, accompanied by heavy drinking and occasional barfights.
Miss Lonelyhearts tries several approaches as a way out of this depression (including religion, escaping to the countryside, and sex) but only ends up more confused.”“The general theme of the novel is one of extreme disillusionment with Depression-era American society, a consistent theme throughout West's novels.
Lurching between moments of Zen-like serene empathy and a raging chaos, he applies some traditionally American means of attempting to cope, including Evangelical Christianity, booze and violence - as well as fever-dreams, a nice little trip to the country, three shambolic affairs* (this is a milieu between westerns and Mad Men in which the men are brutal, the women ill-educated, sex often bartered or coerced, and there seems no hope these people could live companionably in the way many modern couples expect).
Miss Lonelyhearts is the tale of a male advice columnist in Depression Era New York City.
Both portray protagonists who are affected by the bleak letters to advice columns, both present unrewarding sexual relationships as the norm, and neither offer much hope to counteract the critiques of the societies they portray.
Nathanael West's prose is spare and he does little to deepen his characters and create emotional connection to them.
He provides an angry, funny critique of a society, but builds firm connections to characters, and provides a sense of hope that makes for a much more enjoyable experience.
This has got to be one of the strangest book I've ever read. Miss Lonelyhearts is a very American tragedy and state-of-the-nation novella published in 1933 .The unsuspecting, poetic, obnoxious and tragic characters , the illiterate letters-to-the-editor, describing the personal misery and failures of the public and the peculiar writing style filled with dark humour left me dazzled.This short novella is a brutal depiction of everything that went wrong during the "Great Depression".
Aside from terrible selection of cover, this is a beautiful book - a small existional capsule set in times of Great Depression.
It probably would have made a more powerful theatrical play.
Miss Lonelyhearts is name of a newspaper column written by (surprise!
Surprise!!) a man, offering religious advice when he is himself bored and distressed by his job.
As if it wasn't enough of commoditification, the real name of writer is not named and he is constantly refered to as Miss Lonelyhearts."Everything had to form a pattern: the shoes under the bed, the ties in the holder, the pencils on the table.
I bought this book because a sign from a bookseller recommended it by saying, "the only book Jane and I have ever agreed on." Oh. I see the problem now.
As Harold Bloom (aka literary tastemaker who revived this book) is on record saying it's his favorite work of American prose fiction.
Perhaps I'm just grumpy because I'm turning forty and I'm tired of being told which books are good and which are bad when my heart is perfectly capable of telling me what holds up and what falls flat.
And my heart says this book falls very, very flat indeed.
A somewhat amusing look at life in the USA in about 1930 from the perspective of a reluctant advice columnist.
O δεσποινίς "Lonelyhearts" καλύπτει μια στήλη της εφημερίδας που αφορά συναισθηματικές συμβουλές σε μπερδεμένους αναγνώστες μια δουλειά που ξεκίνησε για πλάκα γίνεται όμως και ο ίδιος έρμαιο των επιλογών του αφού βυθίζεται όλο και περισσότερο στην ανάγκη του να γίνει ένας απόστολος του Χριστού θεωρώντας ότι μέσω της πίστης στην θρησκευτική φιγούρα όλα θα λυθούν ως δια μαγείας. Ένα υπέροχα, ειλικρινά θλιβερό μυθηστόρημα για την περίοδο της κρίσης του '30 στην Αμερική, πρόστυχο (το σέξ είναι διάχυτο), ηθογραφικό, σαρκαστικό χωρίς περιττούς και ψεύτικους εντυπωσιασμούς.
Nathanael West wrote four short books, of which two - Miss Lonelyhearts and Day of the Locust - eventually became minor classics.
Miss Lonelyhearts was almost a graphic novel, which would certainly have been something; as it is, it's something else.
The title character, never named aside from "Miss Lonelyhearts," stumbles through a life of agonizing empathy.
He's crushed by and drawn into the suffering of others.
(The problem with drawing one's attention to Christ parallels is that you're sortof spoiling your own ending.) It's short, powerful and elusive.
It should be read in one sitting if possible, and with no prior knowledge of suffering.
Mi trovo in grave imbarazzo a commentare questo romanzo.
Da un lato, certamente, esprime con forza il senso di impotenza, pratica ed emotiva, dell’innominato protagonista che si trova a fronteggiare una società in piena crisi economica e di valori (siamo nell’America della fine degli anni ‘30).
Dall’altro, però, non posso che lamentarne la frammentarietà narrativa, la scarsa incisività del protagonista e la sostanziale noia che queste pagine suscitano.
Di conseguenza, non trovo strano che questo autore sia stato lasciato in disparte durante la sua epoca e la sua breve vita.
I have no idea what to make of this. I am just going to back away slowly from it.
غباء ترجمة العنوان كافٍ لعدم منح الرواية أي تقييم لذلك سوف أعيد قراءتها باللغة الإنجليزية.
Um conto sobre um colunista novato e frustado de um jornal com um nome feminino ,Miss lonelyhearts ,que responde às cartas dos leitores aconselhando sobre os mais diversos assuntos.
O intuito dessa coluna era apenas aumentar a circulação do jornal mas Miss lonelyhearts leva a sério essas cartas e por se sentir impotente, não poder ajudar de uma forma concreta , sofre com isso pois ele quer encher de amor todos os desesperados do universo, quer operar um milagre.
No decorrer do livro acontece muitas coisas é como que se cada capítulo fosse um conto isolado, mas a história vai se juntando formando um livro fenomenal.
Free download available at eBooks@Adelaide.Opening lines:The Miss Lonelyhearts of The New York Post–Dispatch (Are-you-introuble? — Do-you-need-advice? — Write-to-Miss–Lonelyhearts-and-she-will-help-you) sat at his desk and stared at a piece of white cardboard. On it a prayer had been printed by Shrike, the feature editor.
La rubrica verrà firmata sotto lo pseudonimo di Miss Lonelyheart, che da questo momento in poi diventerà l'unica identità riconoscibile per il lettore che infatti non saprà mai il vero nome del protagonista.
Nelle lettere sono contenuti “appelli profondamente umili per ottenere consigli di ordine morale e spirituale, espressioni inarticolate di una sofferenza autentica” Miss Lonelyheart si trova costretto a verificare i valori su cui è basata la sua vita“Questa verifica gli dimostra che è lui la vittima dello scherzo e non viceversa”.Qualsiasi cosa faccia, non riesce a dimenticare quelle lettere.
