https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/838161.Mr_Tickle
There is nothing I want more than to be able to reach downstairs for a biscuit whilst in bed. Lucky bastard.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
This book details a day in the life of he central character - Mr. Tickle who is quickly established as a classic anti-establishment figure in the manner of James Dean in "Rebel Without A Cause", Peter Fonda in "Easy Rider" or Marlon Brando in "The Wild One".Tickle goes about his day humiliating people in positions of authority, making them look stupid and disrupting the valuable work they are doing in the community and their contributions to the wider society.Mr. Tickle breaks in to a school and tickles a teacher.
This is the first of the series. This book was funny. What's funny is there were no repercussions for Mr. Tickle for tickling people. He got away with it. He is pretty sneaky with those long arms. This started the entire series, so it's appropriate that it starts with laughter.My nephew told me to read this to him. Of course I had to. It is such a fun series.
This is one of my favourite Mr. Mr. books - so incredibly funny! Well, it is about Mr. Tickle but still - wonderful!
A serial sexual predator, whom the authorities are unable or unwilling to stop, is brought to book by a member of the public.
However, due to a lack of a suitable offender management programme, the doughty heroine becomes his next victim...This slim work, more of a novella than a full novel, was written in a pre-Yewtree era but, with amazing prescience, Mr Hargeaves has captured the Zeitgeist of that period.
I expect to hear soon of Mr Tickle joining Dave Lee Travis and Stuart Hall in the dock of the Crown Court, while the Hitchcock-like twist at the end can be seen as a warning to the present-day government to avoid tinkering with the Probation Services.
Roger Hargreaves does such a great job putting together stories about characters with particular attributes and places them in situations where these attributes are tested.
Mr. Tickle was the first in the series and there really were no tests for this character with long, thin, wavy arms.
The only downside to this story was the execution in which this particular story was illustrated.
While photos may not be able to capture every extraordinary moment, illustrations can and certainly should, especially if it is a creation.
Aside from that gripe, Mr. Tickle told an extraordinary, laugh out loud story!
And he went to town18 November 2017 Boy is Mr Tickle a pest. Near the beginning of the book, after causing some mischief at school, much to the delight of the pupils, Hargreaves tells us that then 'Mr Tickle went to town.' I'm not entirely sure that what Hargeaves meant here is what we mean these days when we say that 'we go to town' (if that term is more than just an Australian term, which basically means to cause an incredible amount of havoc and destruction on an object, or person), but this
Near the beginning of the book, after causing some mischief at school, much to the delight of the pupils, Hargreaves tells us that then 'Mr Tickle went to town.' I'm not entirely sure that what Hargeaves meant here is what we mean these days when we say that 'we go to town' (if that term is more than just an Australian term, which basically means to cause an incredible amount of havoc and destruction on an object, or person), but this is certainly what happen in the book.
Well, this was a fun book, even though Mr Tickle basically got away with being a pest.
My 6 year old niece and I both loved this book. It's amazing either of us survived it, as we both tickled each other every time the word tickle was mentioned. I was out of breath and exhausted by the end of this book, ha ha :-)
I bought this book for a young friend of mine to add to his collection but thought that I would cheat and read it first ...
and I am glad that I did for it tickled me!Mr Tickle has long arms and can tickle people without them being aware that anyone was near them.
The motto of the book is beware of Mr Tickle because you never know where he is.Blimey I am being tickled as I write this ...
4,5 stars!I loved those books when i was little!And i'm so happy i found them again!The simplicity behind the stories and the characteristics on Mr. Men and Little Miss series was just brilliant!!!
Never heard of these books before, but apparently they were quite popular back in the day. I would probably enjoy more books in this series.
mate this is literature at its best
Always loved the books by Roger Hargreaves and Mr Tickle is a firm favourite with my grandchildren and also my children when they where young.Recommended.
Mr tickle is a flawed work. Mr tickle lives in a town where all the authority figures are men. Mr tickle tickles people, as far as we can make out, without asking them first. On the other hand, he only tickles figures of authority, to bring pandemonium, and joy to children. He can also get biscuits out of the tin without getting out of bed.
Ah, Mr Men and Little Miss, how wonderful you are!These books made up so much of my childhood. No matter what I would go ahead and pick one up. I worked my way through them all a couple of times. Each one has a wonderful story for the child to engage with, each character being fun to read. Everyone has a bias for their favourite character, yet every book is delightful.
My favorite (thus far) of the Mr. Men books. Instead of being depressed over his freakish abnormality of having unusually and preposterously long arms, Mr. Tickle instead uses this to his advantage, to bring joy to those around him (and to sneak biscuits).
Mr. Tickle has super stretchy arms that allow him to tickle people without being seen. He tickles practically everyone in the town one day.Funny, but I couldn't help but think how annoying and disruptive this would be. Does that mean I'm getting old? Don't answer that!
This book gives a great opportunity to have some fun and teach your child to tickle or be tickled whenever mr tickle tickles
Read this to the kids today! I think I enjoyed it more than they did! Granted I’m not sure how much they listened! Ha ha!
Mr Tickle was always one of my favorites from the Mr. Men series and let's face it if we had extraordinary long arms we'd most likely go around causing mischief too!
A rib-tickling short read for children and parents, and one of my favourite books in the series.
Mr Tickle to the rescue! I had only read 69 out of my target 70 books for this year five minutes ago. What a wonderful character; made a nightly appearance in our house about 25 years ago!
Top of the range literature in my opinion
Fun book for the littles.
Le tout premier. L'original. Un peu «creepy» tout de même se personnage qui se promène en chatouillant des gens au hasard, mais un bon livre jeunesse!
In Sweden during the war, a teenage Ingvar Kamprad saw his first bloody Allen key and the bloody flatpack was inflicted on the world.And in England just after the end of the swinging sixties, six-year-old Adam Hargreaves asked his dad: “What does a tickle look like?”His father, Roger, was the creative director at an advertising firm.
Incorrigible groper.Roger Hargreaves realised that Mr Tickle opened all sorts of doors, and not just the kitchen door from his bedroom so he could raid the biscuit tin.If ever there was a series waiting to happen it was this.There was a simple formula for almost infinite ideas: Mr (insert characteristic here).
He went around town tickling all kinds of different people.
You never know where Mr. Tickle will be and who he is going to tickle next.I think this is a really fun book for kids to read.
There are also a bunch of other books like this so kids can read about all the other characters.
Kids can really use their imagination with this book and think about all the places Mr. Tickle could be and all the people he could tickle.
I like that the word choice was simple enough for younger kids to be able to understand easily.
Think I’m right in stating that as a boy I had all the pre-1990 Mr Men books with the possible exception of “Mr Snow”.
Although I’ve forgotten almost everything about this title and all the others I feel that owing to the amount of times I read each publication that they all deserve to be rated five stars.I’m grateful to roger Hargreaves for brightening up my childhood with both his Mr Men and the Timbuctoo series of books.
Such a simple concept of having different characters named after their personalities has left such a long lasting impression on children.
This collection of short stories is all about feeding young children’s imagination, engaging them and good-hearty fun!
For example Mr Tickle is about a character whose main feature is his long arms and he his time is spent tickling other characters in the story.
Very simple but fun as children will already be familiar with being tickled and so can relate to the humour.
Along with the colourful pictures, these books are an inviting read for children in key stage one and a nice way to engage children during story time.
But the books always bring a smile to my face when I see them.
Recently Aurora checked a few out from the library and we both LOVED them!
We have devoured all the titles of both Mr. Men & Little Miss series our library owns and many of the spin-offs written by his son, which thankfully are good too.
Then discovered the jackpot- there are audio books of the Mister Men & Little Miss series narrated by Jim Dale (Just the best narrator EVAH!) and they are fabulous!
(FYI the Mister Men audio collections are rather inexpensive on Amazon/Audible.)
