https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53835.The_Age_of_Innocence
“We can't behave like people in novels, though, can we?”  A few years ago, I read The Age of Innocence and thought it was okay. It has something of an Austen-esque feel - criticisms of middle/upper middle class society, paired with a subtle and clever humour and a love story (here deliciously scandalous). But it's taken me a few years to come back to this novel and appreciate the magic Wharton has brought to the table.This little book is so clever. Everything about it from the damn title to nea
It has something of an Austen-esque feel - criticisms of middle/upper middle class society, paired with a subtle and clever humour and a love story (here deliciously scandalous).
But it's taken me a few years to come back to this novel and appreciate the magic Wharton has brought to the table.This little book is so clever.
Things that didn't hit me fully the first time around became so much more important in this reread.
Newland Archer is full of modernity and the call of new ideas, but finds that any freedom he poses to May she would receive only with the intention of pleasing him.
All the world's a stage in Wharton's New York and everyone wears a mask of society's creation.
At first a devout member of New York aristocracy, Newland is awakened as one from a trance with the arrival of Countess Ellen Olenska.
Vibrant, intellectual, and free-spirited when compared with the dowdy and restrained women he's known, Ellen's predicament is a revelation to Newland.
Wharton writes with cutting wit about the hypocritical and ludicrous customs of blue blood society and cunningly plots events to work against Newland, the archer whose target is a "new land" in which he and Ellen can be together.
‘The longing was with him day and night, an incessant undefinable craving, like the sudden whim of a sick man for food or drink once tasted and long since forgotten. He could not see beyond the craving, or picture what it might lead to, for he was not conscious of any wish to speak to Madame Olenska or to hear her voice. He simply felt that if he could carry away the vision of the spot of earth she walked on, and the way the sky and sea enclosed it, the rest of the world might seem less empty.’
As I started reading Edith Wharton’s crisp prose and witty dialogues, I got to know Newland Archer, May Welland and Ellen, Countess Olenska.
’He hated to think of May Welland's being exposed to the influence of a young woman so careless of the dictates of Taste.’ Yes, in the beginning, he hated the idea of his innocent fiancé being contaminated by the worldly Countess.Nevertheless, Newland's careful and predictable world is flipped completely upside down when he meets and really gets to know the intriguing and intrepid Countess Olenska.
One might say that her prose is a reflection of her New York socialite self.
“In reality they all lived in a kind of hieroglyphic world, where the real thing was never said or done or even thought, but only represented by a set of arbitrary signs.” They that were above that “Innocence” were cruelly placed upon a circumstance in which they have to feign Innocence as well, as the only way to sustain their love for each other.
In the end, he was afraid that all that sustained his love was that invisible shackle, that sense of longing, that feigned innocence.
Through thwarted dreams, despairing disillusionment, unbearable regrets and the innocence that seals the mind against imagination and the heart against experience, Newland and Ellen share a secret love that enables each of them to be the best people they can be, fulfilled intellectually, emotionally and socially, and the fact they can never be together in harmony is just as unbearable for the reader as it is for the characters, and this is where Wharton excels with people you truly believe in.
Appearances can be deceiving, as this superb classic novel reveals...Newland Archer, has the perfect life, rich , young, and good looking, a member in excellent standing, of New York's High Society of 1871, during the Golden Age. These people feel not like prisoners but brave members of a group, keeping back the barbarians at the gate.
There is an unstated, powerful attraction, between Archer and Ellen, still duty prevents anything unsavory from happening, besides Newland, believes in the proper way of doing things.
He perceived that such a picture presupposed, on her part, the experience, the versatility, the freedom of judgement, which she had been carefully trained not to possess; and with a shiver of foreboding he saw his marriage becoming what most of the other marriages about him were : a dull association of material and social interests held together by ignorance on the one side and hypocrisy on the other.Much later the young man sadly muses thus:There was no use in trying to emancipate a wife who had not the dimmest notion that she was not free- apart from making you think "how very rude!" this begs the question what liberty, exactly, did this proto-feminist man suppose could be accessed by upperclass females in the 1870s in New York?
Still and all, the movie is a 100-minute argument as to why you should read the book instead, because what's missing is Edith Wharton's mind, which is a great place to dally in.
A man who makes a CLEAR choice (view spoiler)[he knew he loved another woman but married anyway (hide spoiler)] to reap the benefits of marrying well “After all, marriage is marriage, and money's money—both useful things in their way ...” then wastes his life and the lives of the women who share it by spending it lamenting his decision.
Needed a break from ‘escapist’ fiction so followed it with Eels: An Exploration, from New Zealand to the Sargasso, of the World's Most Mysterious Fish Loved it (review to follow).
Just to be clear my dislike for this novel isn’t because I over-empathized with the wife.
The air of ideas is the only air worth breathing. Just when I think a classic unlikely to give me pause, it surprises me with relatable themes. After reading Wharton's short story, "The Muse's Tragedy" (one of the supplemental reads I'll be teaching this Fall), I knew I had to visit one of her longer forms. So rewarding it was, to be wooed by elegant prose and positioning; a plot that moves in practiced laps; a story that could be yours, mine, theirs; a setting that will always be known for bot
Countess Olenska is not just a woman ostracized in 1920s New York Society: she is symbolic of New York on the verge of change, the cusp of a new era; she is love and beauty and complications; she is pain, consolation, a new life which uncovers an insipid way of living.
The Countess represents fresh ideas, a new way of thinking, a society that doesn't place class and materialism before all else, a bohemian way of being.
In fact, conventional New York City was also unprepared for The Harlem Renaissance, taking place only a few blocks away, in the same decade and the same world, yet separate and forgotten--like Ellen Olenska.
726. The Age of Innocence, Edith WhartonThe Age of Innocence is a 1920 novel by the American author Edith Wharton. It won the 1921 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, making Wharton the first woman to win the prize. The story is set in the 1870s, in upper-class, "Gilded-Age" New York City. Newland Archer, gentleman lawyer and heir to one of New York City's best families, is happily anticipating a highly desirable marriage to the sheltered and beautiful May Welland. Yet he finds reason to doubt his choic
«ارچر» میفهمد که «ریویر» - همان منشی، که «الن» همراه او از پیش شوهرش فرار کرده است - پیغامی برای «الن» آورده است، که در آن کنت خواستار بازگشت «الن» شده است.
سپس «می» به «ارچر» می‌گوید که «الن» تصمیم گرفته، به اروپا بازگردد، اما نه پیش شوهرش.
پس از میهمانی خداحافظی «الن»، «می» رازی را فاش می‌کند، که او چندین روز قبل به «الن» گفته بود، و اکنون نیز او فقط به شوهرش اطلاع می‌دهد: او حامله است.
پس از آنکه «دالاس» به پدر خود می‌گوید، که او از همه چیز درباره «الن النسکا» اطلاع یافته است، آنها تصمیم می‌گیرند که از آپارتمان «الن» دیدن کنند.
May be I ought to have read this before the four stories in Old New York: Four Novellas.
The reader can see him/herself as witnessing the story from one of the boxes beginning, lets say, at the left side of the horseshoe shaped theater, and gradually moving to one at the extreme right ending it from one of the The novel is also loaded with references that ground the work to its times and its culture.
Well because high society is actually incredibly dull.
Most of Wharton's principal characters are unhappy with their lot and lead a treading-on-eggshells existence because they're terrified out of their wits about any kind of scandal.
now massive scandal can be a potentially lucrative money earner if you have the right press connections and in certain cities (Lets pretend I don't live in one of them) people set out to bed a sleb (celebrity) and then launch a modelling/music/TV career based on the back of some good quality kiss and tell anecdotes.The best thing about this book for me was the names of the main characters.
If you’ve read this book, please comment because I’d love to have a discussion about it.(view spoiler)[Archer seems to have fallen back into his old groove, but he feels that he’s missed out on “the flower of life.” When he’s given an opportunity to see Ellen once again, he resists, thinking that the memory of his association with her will be more vivid and real if he doesn’t see her again.
Only, I wonder – the thing one’s so certain of in advance: can it ever make one’s heart beat as wildly?”I’d like to think that he’s realizing there that maybe he didn’t miss out on the flower of life: he had passion and sadness and powerful feelings.
I know that this novel has been played often by Takarazuka Ballet,the all-female Japanese musical theater troupe,so it must be more of a sugary,insipid typical love triangle.Yes,it is a love story,but it is much more than that.The main plot is a tragic love story,but with the conflict of values and ethics in life and society.I'd say this is the strong and beautiful point of this classic.Through the culture clash between Europe and America (here I mean New York),and the rise and fall of the then old families,the charcters are forced to adjust and readjust to their changing life,stick to the old values or must accept new ones.How painful the process and how dreadful the fate must be!
Most values depicted here are almost universal,and can apply in modern times,so thier decisions are all the more touching.
This great work is a modern bittersweet story at the mercy of ethics and morals we share today and different times.
Newland Archer is a wealthy lawyer of upper-class New York society, who is engaged to be married to May, a member of the same society.
The story, through the main characters of Newland, May and Ellen, and supported by quite a number of interesting supporting characters, is a true portrayal of the lives and way of living of New York upper-class society.
Being herself part of that society, Ms. Wharton draws a truthful account of the old upper-class New York society coupled with subtle humour on their rigid conventional way of living.
Yeah, you could call this The Age of Innocence.
On the other hand, a more suitable title might be Anna Karenina Revisited.
Here are a few similarities off the top of my head:- It's a novel based on societal etiquette.
- And finally, the adulterous woman comes equipped with a very Anna Karenina-esque European flair.
Did Edith Wharton steal everything but the title?
However, let's set the accusations aside.This is a damn fine novel.
Indeed it's difficult to fault Wharton on any point.
Beyond the novel, it's difficult to fault Wharton even if she did pilfer the plot.
The truth is, we're all susceptible to the foolishness and intensity that comes with being in love.In the beginning of the novel, Archer is accepting and eager about his role and future in society - son, lawyer, bachelor, husband, father.
I went in with very high expectations for this novel - this is the second book by Edith Wharton that I've read, Ethan Frome being the first - and she did not disappoint.
An intimate and critical exposé of society coupled with Edith Wharton's elegant prose secures this novel as one of the greatest pieces of American literature I've read yet.
IntroductionSuggestions for Further ReadingA Note on the Text--The Age of InnocenceExplanatory Notes
Newland Archer, a young lawyer, is engaged to be married to May Welland, a sweet but (he soon comes to realize) rather limited girl.
Can you guess what happens?Wharton knows everything about this Gilded Age world.
When the smitten Newland sees Ellen after a long time he exclaims: "Each time you happen to me all over again," which gave me shivers because it sounds so contemporary.The final chapter, in particular, is a model of economy: decades flash by showing changing mores, and a poignant sense of regret and acceptance suffuses everything.
The Age Of Innocence is must reading, especially if you're engaged to be married.
Newland Archer aches with the constraints of his time and the absurdity and hypocrisy of the society in which he lives.
He shivered a little, remembering some of the new ideas in his scientific books, and the much cited instance of the Kentucky cave-fish, which had ceased to develop eyes because they had no use for them.
And oh, the maddening denial, one of my favorite themes in books.
It did not hurt him half as much to tell May an untruth as to see her trying to pretend that she had not detected him.And love.
I loved this book and seem to be developing a penchant for reading books which drift along in a sedate way and in which not much appears (on the surface) to happen.
Newland Archer and May Welland and about to be engaged to be married and the novel follows their engagement and early married life.
This is really about the society of women; Newland Archer believes in his own moral and intellectual superiority, but he really doesn’t have a clue what is happening behind the scenes.
Like Blake, Wharton is bringing her own experiences in this novel (following that write about what you know rule) and describing the things she has observed, for Wharton has grown up in this somewhat rigid) New York society she described so eloquently in this novel.
Indeed, in its complexity this novel comes quite close to above listed great writers.The Age of Innocence is not just about a love triangle or a love story.
That's about where the similarity ends for me, for this novel is in many ways original.As I repeated again and again in this view, the potrayal of characters is exceptional.
The aristocratic denizens float through an orbit of intimations, insinuations and niceties in rigid fidelity to the complicated and exacting demands of such elegant Manhattan coteries.This winner of the 1921 Pulitzer for fiction is an acerbic attack, carried out with indirect deftness, on the oppressive social conventions of an exceedingly class-conscious society.The protagonist Newland Archer, who is a young lawyer in an esteemed firm and heir to one of New York's finest families, stands on the brink of announcing his engagement to the pretty and coddled May Welland, when enters Countess Ellen Olenska, May's beautiful and worldly cousin.
“The immense accretion of flesh which had descended on her in middle life like a flood of lava on a doomed city had changed her from a plump active little woman with a neatly-turned foot and ankle into something as vast and august as a natural phenomenon.” Does writing get any finer than that? And some say:A) the Edith Wharton is boring, while others say...B) she had no sense of humor.I'd say: She was behind me at the grocery store today and saw the same thing I saw.
“The longing was with him day and night, an incessant undefinable craving, like the sudden whim of a sick man for food or drink once tasted and long since forgotten. He could not see beyond the craving, or picture what it might lead to, for he was not conscious of any wish to speak to Madame Olenska or to hear her voice. He simply felt that if he could carry away the vision of the spot of earth she walked on, and the way the sky and sea enclosed it, the rest of the world might seem less empty.”
Anyway, I decided to “read” this audiobook version because it was recommended to me as one of Librivox’s* best.The Age of Innocence is about New York’s society during 1870, a time of rapid social changes (thank you Wikipedia!).
Poor Countess Olenska is tempted but is far too smart to bring even more scandal on herself, not to mention her consideration for the bride to be, May Welland, who is her cousin.I personally do not have a lot of time for Newland Archer who has to decide between Winona Ryder and Michelle Pfeiffer in their prime (movie reference).
Beautifully written of course but not an especially interesting story. Newman Archer is actually a very unlikeable person although obviously a symptom of the society in which he was raised. I felt sorry for all of them because in the end no one was really happy. A bit depressing really. I do like the way Edith Wharton writes but sadly this book did not really do it for me.
Un té de jazmín. Sí, sé que no tiene nada que ver con esta maravillosa historia, pero es así como la veo: como una taza de aromático té. Sutil. Delicada. Cálida... Y a la misma vez, fría como la hipocresía que se sentaba en los palcos rojos y dorados de la vieja Academia, la noche en la que debutó Madame Nilsson. La misma noche en que Newland Archer volvía a ver a la condesa de Olenska... Una historia que te atrapa y no te deja indiferente; una de esas novelas que se te mete en la piel...
The fly, in this instance, is in the pleasing shape of Madame Ellen Olenska, cousin to Newland’s new fiancée.
Ellen is different from these women; she has taken her fate into her own hands and disregarded her husband’s wishes, but she pays a price for her actions.
I think, in the end, (view spoiler)[he felt that being with Ellen was an opportunity lost.
I think Newland feels he could have taken this drastic step as a younger man, but not now.
4.5“You're so shy, and yet you're so public. I always feel as if I were in the convent again—or on the stage, before a dreadfully polite audience that never applauds.”Gracious God, what a masterpiece.
Age of Innocence is a better-written, better-plotted, probably better-acted version of Gossip Girl.
Our main character here is Newland Archer, a wealthy young man who lives a charmed life: he's rich, is engaged to a wonderful girl, and believes that he understands the rules of the world he inhabits:"In matters intellectual and artistic Newland Archer felt himself distinctly the superior of these chosen specimens of old New York gentility; he had probably read more, thought more, and even seen a good deal more of the world, than any other man of the number.
