https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16707.Wonder_Boys
Second only to Catcher in the Rye in my all-time favorite list of books.
If you love prose, good prose, jubillant, wild, ecstatic indulgent prose, read Chabon.
I love this book, messy, huge, overwrought, comedic, tragic, careening towards a great big crash at the end -- I love it all.
It's what I love about life, it's what I love about literature -- I like it big and messy and joyous.
And Grady -- he's my second favorite literary character of all time -- second only to Holden Caulfield.
Wonder Boys has been one of my favorite movies of all time because it hits all the wonderful buttons of writing and reading and being deliciously messed up and being so HUMAN.And then somewhere along the line I read The Yiddish Policemen's Union and I still didn't make the connection.So when I DID finally make the connection that one of favorite movies was really based on a book by an author I already described to myself as "wonderfully inventive and crazy", I made a facepalm that even my great-grandfather felt.
The drugs and debauchery he pushes on other characters is far more threatening than his unforced deflowering of Grady's student.One other thing that rings true and respectable in the novel is this point Grady makes after he realizes Crabtree won't be publishing his 2000-page unfinished novel:"It's not fashionable, I know, in this unromantic age, for a reasonably straight man to think of finding his destiny in the love of another man, but that was how I'd always thought of Crabtree.
The "Wonder Boys" is a novel about writing the Wonder Boys, and takes place over the course of two days in which the protagonist is constantly stoned and/or drunk as he manages to fuckup his entire life (but comes out living happily ever after): He survives his wife leaving him; has his novel rejected by his editor and 20yr old beautiful female student; loses the manuscrpit; gets bit by a dog; is an accessory to several crimes, gets skulled with a baseball bat; gets fired; and has the self-discovery that he is a fraud.
On the surface, Grady Tripp is probably one of the most loathsome individuals I have ever read about in literature—he’s spent seven years on a 2,611 page monstrosity that has gone absolutely nowhere and like his life meandered everywhere, he’s come to the dissolution of his third marriage, he’s carried on an affair for about five years with the married chancellor who is now carrying his child, he’s smoked an entire football field of weed, and yet he can’t seem to cut himself off, and he harbors a certain amount of jealousy for James Leer, a student of his who has managed to finish his novel, while he has not—and yet I liked him anyway, and I couldn’t wait to see what crisis he would manage to find himself in the middle of next.
I'd read Chabon's The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay and The Yiddish Policemen's Union, and I liked both those books, but this was the first book of his that I felt a real emotional attachment to the characters.
And because he can't stand conflict, he avoids breaking bad news which just draws out all of his problems.Grady's weekend adventures with his talented but weird student, James Leer, while trying to avoid his editor, makes for a sadly funny story about a middle-aged man trying not to hurt the people in his life while not realizing that he already has and now is just running in circles to avoid the fall-out.
1 star - I really hated it.Somewhere around the part where the main character requested a pen to draw faces on his "wiener" (the author's fancy word choice, not mine) as he "pissed" behind a tree, I came to the realization that the remaining 179 pages were probably going to be just as unsatisfactory as the first 209 had been.
For a book that screams, "Look at me!
I'm so, so, so funny.
I'm so, so, so funny.
I was funny", it was decidedly unfunny.
The good news is that I was able to remove four other books from my TBR pile.
It's been quite some time since I last laughed out loud while reading/listening to a book.
Several scenes in this novel caught me just right, mainly, I feel, because Chabon and I share a certain man-child sense of humor.
If you identify as a man-child, maybe pick up this book and give it a read.
The audiobook is the way I chose to read this one, and I recommend it, although I'm sure the book itself would be just as easy to read.
chabon's adaptation of the famous tenacious d song.
Michael Chabon!!
Where have you been all my life?
What a great book!
I loved the film version, but the book is even better.
I must admit, it was impossible not to picture Michael Douglas and Toby Maguire as I read, but that's not a bad thing.
I love the character Grady Tripp.
"As long as she was falling in love with me, I might as well start making her promises I didn't intend to keep." Ah, Grady, you would have totally done me in.Anyway, great read, I highly recommend it, especially to those of you who like John Irving.
Michael Chabon also writes the worst books I've ever read.
Here you have a story about a writer (that's a tough plot to start with) that is not in touch with reality (the character is even harder to write) whom screws everything up because it is much easier to do the wrong thing than to be right all the time.
The problem is that there is a Seder supper in the middle of this book, an 80 page drool of boring, meaningless garbage that really gave me time to 1.
Grady was a slacker and an asshole, Crabtree was a disturbing, self-absorbed douchebag, and James was just pathetic in every way.
Emily's parents, the Warshaws, are entirely likable.
How can you not love old Jewish parents?The entire book was a mess as Grady just skated through disaster after disaster with no real consequences for his horrendously immature and asinine behavior.
I'm also bothered by the fact that they made both Grady and Crabtree more presentable and even likable by casting Michael Douglas and Robert Downey, Jr., respectively, in their roles.
I'd be interested to see how they handle Crabtree's borderline pedophiliac obsession with James.
I think the screenwriter did a fine job adapting this novel to the screen, and keeping it fairly faithful to the book.Michael Chabon is a very descriptive writer, as far as feelings, sensations, smells and the like.
There is much more about his estranged wife and family in the book, and the ending isn't quite as uplifting as the film, plus, I would have liked an epilogue of what happened to the characters after the novel was over.
I couldn't wait to finish the book, and then view the movie again.
So, one day I was having lunch with a publishing friend of mine and we were talking about books we'd read.
Now Cork was salt of the earth; one of the giants of publishing, an editor of unimpeachable judgement and taste - this guy had forgotten more about good writing than most editors will ever know.
So I asked him what he thought about Chabon.
Apparently he'd been submitted one of Chabon's novels for consideration to publish.
The central action centered on this guy and two women he was deeply involved with, at the same time and was having a heck of time trying to decide which one he wanted to be with.
Just like I thought.
I was not expecting to ever quit a book by Chabon but this one turned out not to be to my taste.
Characters not knowing where to go and what to do, a story that has no direction either.
And all the detailed descriptions (do I really need to know the way even the minor characters are dressed, what they look like, how they smell?) slow down the pace even more.
I could appreciate the humor and most of the writing, although even here the author is exaggerating in all his metaphores, many of which are sharp but quite a few make little sense.
In summary: this book is over the top.
In addition to the principal characters — Tripp's precocious fragile creative writing student James Leer; his amoral agent clad insect-like in an irridescent green suit, Terry Crabtree; and university chancellor Sara Gaskill who is Tripp's current coupling partner; Chabon introduces August Van Zorn (pen name Albert Vetch), a minor horror story writer who committed suicide; Tripp's current wife Emily along with her entire family who gather at a fractured Seder celebration; Tripp's own father Little George, an unbalanced war veteran turned policeman who also committed suicide; Sara's father Joseph Tedesco, an assistant groundskeeper at Forbes Field; James Leer's complacent country clubber parents Fred and Amanda; Cleon Clement, a bouncer at the local watering hole the Hi Hat; a transvestite named Antonia/Tony Sloviak; Hannah Green, a lodger and creative writing student; and John Jose Fahey, a writer who apparently did suffer from writer's block.
Given how cliche all of this is, you would think that authors would consider this formula strictly where angels fear to tread, but no.Welcome to WONDER BOYS, Michael Chabon's novel about a washed-up writer slash professor with a weed habit, a book he cannot finish, a bevy of babes (some young enough to be his daughter) to choose from, and a penchant for disaster.
The title comes from the behemoth of a novel Grady Tripp cannot finish, but you needn't Wonder why when you see the lifestyle he lives.Of all the books I've read of this ilk, the only one to pull it off with aplomb is Thomas Williams' THE HAIR OF HAROLD ROUX -- also named after the professor slash alcoholic's book-in-progress.
But while there are some crucial differences in the plot and characters (as there would almost have to be with any complex novel brought to the screen), what is different here is in many ways better than what was in the movie.
Also different is the degree to which we come to know the failed novel at the center of this marvelous novel.I've also read Kavelier and Clay, and while I think that was marginally better, the two books together show the extraordinary range of Chabon's talent.
Being far too depressed to attempt any sort of cogent "review" of this book, all I can say is that it's terrific, and one of only a few books to ever make me laugh audibly.
Perhaps that's a sad statistic to cite, but while I've found many books funny, few have actually made me genuinely laugh, as several scenes here did.
I came into this book with both unreasonably high expectations after enjoying The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay as well as an unreasonable expectation of disappointment in reading another book by this same author.
However, I really did love the book.Ok, for the rest of you, will you in turn enjoy it?
I liked it. I didn't love it...unlike many of my friends. oh well. and although i could say i "really liked" parts of it, i did not "really like" all of it. i scribbled down some notes, so hopefully i'll be back shortly, maybe even tomorrow, to clarify what i did and what i did not like (so much). This was my first Chabon novel that i completed. I started one once but got distracted (oops), but do intend to read his others. Even (perhaps especially) the one that got accidentally left behind.
A strong, early Chabon.
It has all the things that I love about Michael Chabon: the quirky characters, the beautiful filigreed prose, the androgenous and ambiguous lovers.
I appreciate the feeling that this book ran past Chabon's careful editing.
In someways it feels a bit like the Pastoral Wanderings of Don Quixote (just replace Rocinante and Sancho Panza with a dead dog and a tuba).
IT also at times feels like a Greek New Comedy with the chorus singing through the vortex ring of Afghan Indica pot smoke.
So yeah, I liked it good enough.________________- Robert Farwell / Edward Jones library / Mesa, AZ 2014
So much bad happens that you are really not surprised anymore - he's just having a really bad weekend.On top of all this he's trying to finish his 2000+ pages next novel called Wonder Boys and that is really not happening either - so not much is looking up for Tripp.This book reminded me of Man gone Down by Michael Thomas in that they both takes place over a few days and our narrator is out of luck and trying to get his life back together.
It’s funny when I think about how much it took for me to read this book.
If Straight Man is about looking back on your lost potential and seizing it, Wonder Boys is about being in the thick of it (read: writing) and understanding that you come from a long line of fucked up people who are the of the same breed: writers.
With a cast of characters that is a vibrant as an orchid room, Wonder Boys is an intense examination of the people who bare their souls and try to tell the stories that are within them...
Each of the several times I've gone back to re-read Wonder Boys I've taken something different from it.
While I still remain in awe of Chabon's magnificent prose and expansive vocabulary its still the protagonist that keeps me coming back for more.Having studied English Literature and taken writing courses at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, and now teaching these at university level, I confess I have a biased connection and perspective to this novel.
While every character is masterfully layered in personal complexity, each still manages to bear some resemblance to one of the many English Professors I have studied under or worked with.
I remember being surprised at how much I liked this book that seemed so silly and focused on characters about whom I cared so little, especially the main character, Grady Tripp, who is a real jerk. But Chabon is talented and the book has real charm. The movie, while good, doesn't quite do it justice.
Wonderful writing: not at all my kind of story. Bailed a third of the way in.
Chabon stated that he “never felt like [he] was conceptually on steady ground.” Without telling his agent or publisher he abandoned the book and started Wonder Boys which steamed from the melodrama involved around Fountain City.
The main character, Grady Tripp is apparently based on one of Chabon’s professors from University of Pittsburgh who had a 3000 pages manuscript which eventually was published in 2001.This being my third novel by Michael Chabon, I was struck by how different this book was to the other two.
Wonder Boys felt raw and emotional, and now understanding the fate of Fountain City I can see the birth of this book.Chabon plays on the ideas of how we view the stereotypical struggling writer; a person surrounded in melodrama.
A cast of literary personages wreaking havoc upon their own lives and everyone else they have contact with.
James Leer is one of the best written characters I've read, awkward and shy to a fault, young and innocent, talented and inspired, fiercely struggling psychologically, but still dependent like a boy, all sketched very simply and effectively with quick strokes of dialogue, posture, and strange behaviors.
Lots of philandering, drinking and smoking.
Despite all the screwed up people and relationships, there's still a lot of love and caring, and no hatred, between the characters.
A fun read with some literary weight.
Uno studente problematico ma geniale, un editor sull’orlo, una studentessa molto figa che non ha nessun ruolo, un professore/scrittore che a 40 anni ha più divorzi alle spalle che libri pubblicati.Animali morti nel baule di un’auto.
Fino a qui tutto bene.
Situazioni a caso che sembrano venire una dietro l’altra senza un filo logico credibile.
Qui aveva poco più di 30 anni e forse non c’è da andarci troppo pesante.
(che poi ha vinto un Pulitzer sotto i 40 anni, di cosa sto parlando?).Però mi aspettavo davvero di più.Non so, credo lo dimenticherò in fretta 'sto libro.
I really wanted to dislike Wonder Boys.
I even tried to dislike it.
I mean, here it was a book about writers (barf) by Michael Chabon (barf) who kind of gives me the willies (I think it’s the hair).
Despite all that, Wonder Boys still crawled into my heart.So we’ve got pot-smoking, wife-cheating, never-ending-novel writing Grady Tripp and the weekend from hell.
Grady’s wife has also chosen that day to leave him and Grady’s mistress, the chancellor of the university he teaches at, also decides to tell him she’s pregnant.
Oh and Grady also managed to thwart the suicide of his gifted-oddball student James Leer who steals a jacket worn by Marilyn Monroe.
