https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174703.What_to_Expect_When_You_re_Expecting
When the my overly clinical other books told me to panic if I hadn't noticed the baby moving for three hours, What to expect told me that that actually happens to most women sometime in the third trimester, why I should be concerned, and again, how extremely low the probability was that something was actually wrong, but that I should still check in with my doctor just in case.
Essentially this book kept me well informed so that I didn't freak out about things (like loosing my mucus plug one morning at work) and knew what to look out for and when to call the doctor.
The first book I got after my baby was born was What To Expect the First Year, and I couldn't live without that either!
For obvious reasons, I am not going to rate this book.
I like knowing things on the one hand, and on the other, the pregnancy was a wonderful broadening and deepening of our family life and not something akin to the revolution that necessitates reorganisation of a whole life.
___The good thing about Goodreads is the one doesn't have to make any grand statements.
One look at the "currently reading" shelf is enough.Month 1: Apparently something's cooking.
Month 2: First sonogram.
Month 3: The Mothers know.
So. It's official.Month 4: Seedling took a shortcut to Heaven skipping the Earth altogether.
While nursing a hangover and trying not to throw up.Anyway, I do give the book two stars because the section "When to Call The Doctor" is a pretty useful and easy to find reference when something freaky is happening and you have lost all common sense and are panicky and don't know what to do.
(Similarly, the What To Expect The First Year book has useful references for when you don't know what to do with your out-of-sorts infant.

It is unfortunate that sometimes no one tells us we are bad at something, and then we bumble on through life thinking we are good at it.
That's what's happened to Heidi Murkoff, who is a terrible writer laboring under the delusion that she is a good writer and comedic to boot.
"If you're pregnant (and even if you're not), exercise is a good idea (but don't overdo it).
Somehow this incompetent writer has made a cottage industry of this; I hear "What to Expect the First Year" is far worse, if one can imagine such a painful fate.Are you planning to have children?
There I was, a brand-new mother-to-be, and this ridiculous book had me convinced that every time I farted there was something wrong with me!
And believe me, I farted quite a bit.
Trust me, if you want to be a nervous wreck, run out and buy this book.
Just because you take Tylenol for headaches, drink a cup of coffee, or opt to eat the entire chocolate cake instead of veggies, does not mean that your kid will be born with hideous birth defects.
Here's my advice, after having four healthy kids: Don't drink a bottle of wine for breakfast, and stay away from crack.
I'm sure that many, many women, like me, zipped off to the library and grabbed this first thing after their positive pregnancy test.I had zero ambivalence about being pregnant, but I imagine that for other thinking women less sure they want a baby, this book could do a lot to make them decide that in fact they might not.
It really made the whole thing seem like a lame project for stupid, infantilized women, and something I didn't want to be a part of at all despite really wanting a baby.To be fair, I have a hard time with a lot of accepted pregnancy book conventions, beyond just this book.
When I was pregnant with my first child, I picked up nearly every book on the bookstore shelves having to do with pregnancy and childbirth.
I wanted comfort, a friend in the form of a book, a companion to hold my hand and let me know everything was going to be okay.
This book was not that friend.
That's how I felt when I read this book.
Use it as a resource if one of the other books you read (I suggest "The Mother of All Pregnancy Books" by Ann Douglas) leaves you wanting more information.
Avoid this book at all costs!It infantilizes pregnant women and tells them to just go along with whatever the doctor says they should do. I also remember it being very hetero-normative.A much better book is The Complete Book of Pregnancy and Childbirth by Sheila Kitzinger.The only thing What to Expect When You're Expecting is good for is starting a fire to keep the expectant mother warm.
It felt to me like this book is out to scare moms-to-be. Instead of celebrating how normal many of our pregnancy changes are, this book makes you question any weight gain (hello, we're growing babies here! They weigh alot!)and can often take a hectoring tone. I don't think ladies need that. Check out any of the other fine pregnancy and labor books out there by Sears, Gaskin, Kitzinger, Simkin, England and others.
Every other page has some guilt-tripping admonishment not to eat white flour ("Push the bread basket away at a restaurant if the bread isn't whole wheat," it said once, and oh, count the calories in the butter you do spread on your whole wheat bread).
I make my own whole wheat bread and yogurt and eat very little sugar, but to tell a hungry pregnant woman to "push the bread basket away" at a restaurant just because the bread isn't whole-wheat?
One "question" (which was probably self-written and planted in order for the author to do more harping) said, "I've gained 13 pounds in my first trimester.
This book has a mixed reaction from moms--some feel that it can be too strict at times in terms of diet and exercise.
As a first-time mom, this book had helpful question and answer sections for each month that encouraged me.
What to Expect answers questions such as what to watch out for when you are pregnant, tips for buying a layette set and how to help you and your husband bond with the newborn.
In a way, it's like your mom, doctor and pastor are answering all of your questions without the phone call!
It may be appropriate to read these books as an introduction to pregnancy and birth, but you must not stop here!The books in this series may be helpful if you know absolutely nothing about how pregnancy and birth are managed in mainstream America, or if you hate asking questions from your doctor. But in my opinion, there are many, many books out there that educate and prepare women to understand, deal with and manage their pregnancies and births as partners with their health care providers, not as quiet, non-questioning, passive patients.
How can you complain about too much information? This book was great, practical and reassuring. The index had most every topic I could think of. However, the version I read needed an update on epidurals since it didn't recognize that many women today have them during childbirth. It does have diet guidelines that are healthy goals. I personally didn't follow them but they might be useful for someone who thinks that it is ok to gorge on whatever you want just because of being pregnant.
Talk about your guilt trips! I know this is a popular gift to give someone who is expecting a baby and it does contain some useful info. but it does seem like the Martha Stewart approach to child rearing. Inpractical for most of us mortals.
Once I got past the terrible, frumpalicious Mom in loafers cover art, I found this book both helpful and horrifying in almost equal measures. Although the ending was totally predictable(9 months then baby? Yawn.), I was still shocked by it. They really had me hoping up til the very end that there was some other way for that baby to get out.
My pregnancy bible!
Too alarmist for my taste. According to this book pretty much everything you do while pregnant will hurt your baby. Not for me!
I don't feel that a book this valuable ought to be given a bad name because certain people didn't get out of it whatever it was they were expecting.
(Please excuse the pun.) This is an extensive reference guidebook covering the stages of pre-conception, pregnancy, childbirth, and post-postpartum--not something I'd recommend anyone read cover-to-cover.
*Neurotic, or likely to become neurotic during pregnancy.*Generally resentful of those 'crazies' who respect the idea of natural childbirth.*Have difficulty taking responsibility for your own actions/reactions to knowledge.
*Would rather jam your fingers in your ears and hum than be medically informed.
It's true, between doing baby registry research, diaper research, birth research, and driving to work for the past three months instead of taking public transit, I've had much less time to read than before, but I suppose that's just preparation for the busy time to come.
And the advice is all about how to be the absolutely perfect mother, so that you don't f-up your baby by taking one wrong step.
The best example of this is their "best bite for your baby" approach to eating - before every bite you take, you're supposed to ask yourself whether it's the most nutritious thing you could be eating.
Eskiden hamilelikle ilgili telefon uygulaması yokken sanırım bu kitap alanında bir efsane olabilirdi 😀 hala daha öyle ama uygulamalardan hafta hafta takip edip buradan ay ay takip ediyorsunuz en büyük farkı bu.
Her hamilenin mutlaka elinde olmalı.
Mesela sakarlık seviyem %1000 arttı elime attığım her şey düşüyor kendime sinir oluyorken pat diye çoğu hamilede olduğu karşıma çıktı ve kendimi normal hissettim 😂 app ve kitaptaki bilgileri kıyaslayıp gerçekten rahat bir hamilelik yaşıyor ve panik hissiniz azalıyor.
Mutlaka tavsiye ederim tek sorun bilgilerin biraz eskiden gelmesi ama Doğum da bildiğimiz en eski olaylardan biri değil mi zaten😌
It was really interesting to learn more, but I would have liked to learn even more about what's going on the baby.
There were maybe four paragraphs in each chapter about baby's progress and the rest about possible symptoms (which were still really interesting).
Overall I would have liked a more straightforward science-y take on things, where instead there's just a lot of puns and plays on words.
I'm a fan of a good pun, but seriously every paragraph had a play on words, and that is not an exaggeration.
That said, the book is packed with good information.
I found this book to be a good place to start.
I greatly enjoy the research and information-gathering process, so this book presented a jumping-off point for me in my quest to arm myself with knowledge about my pregnancy and birthing options.Overall, I found "Expecting" to be:- user friendly- easy to read- clearly laid out- thorough- fairly moderate & inclusive in its opinions & adviceWas this book my only resource during pregnancy?
Was it my favorite resource?
Was it worth reading?
I happily skimmed through some sections, skipped others altogether, and allowed some information to push me towards further, more specific research from other sources.
Time flying, etc.) I know it's popular to slam this book, but it was a vast improvement over the books that came before it.
As long as you ignore the diet advice (hey, I usually do!).
Still, it had good solid advice and I liked it fine.
It was a bit of a ground-breaker for books that came after it, so I don't know that I would say it is even close to the best information around now.
Lots of better information available online, and probably in newer books, though I really don't care for the so-called "hipper" versions like "Girlfriend's Guide"

Preporučena mi je kao 'najbolja literatura' za trudnice. Meni nije bila, toliko toga što je zapravo čak i nepotrebno... kako kome, ali meni je ova bila naporna
Damn right I'm counting this.
This thing only terrifies mommies. Stay away and you'll be fine. Trust only trusted people in your life and your doctor.
I read it through my whole pregnancy from start to finish, following along with each week.
I always looked forward to hitting a new week and reading up about it in the book throughout my pregnancy.
I liked the layout of the book, with each week of pregnancy being covered, and the extensive information.
While it isn't perfect, and some of the information can be a bit overwhelming, in your face, scary, or seemingly judgmental, all in all I thought it was a very handy and thorough guide and one that I would recommend highly.
There's much better out there, and I didn't appreciate the condescending tones present some of the time.
Perhaps it was meant as reassuring.
I was also annoyed by the author making sure to let you know it's called labor because it's hard work.
Actually, labor isn't always about work.
They said it was a mild discomfort (not in every case certainly) Labor isn't hard work, it's sometimes hard pain but there's nothing to be condescending about.
Also, almost everything was about just go to your doctor, even over doing your own health research and nutrition.
I dislike these generic copouts in health books.
