https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140399.The_Master_of_Blacktower
I liked it much better the second time around.This old-fashioned gothic was so gothic it almost oozed gothic.
Besides gothic mystery of the main tale, the unwinding love tale captivated yours truly completely.
Even so, it made a twisted, good story to read.
Twists and turns kept me on my toes for this one, not just in the story’s revelation, but also the heart pitter-patter of the mains.The ending was a little too abrupt, but the story worked great overall.
Exciting story with some mystery, a heroic love story that leaves a good feeling when the last page has been read.
The heroine in this story, Damaris Gordon is fairy tale beautiful, independent, and intelligent – despite the fact she is nearly flawless, the reader quickly is enchanted.
Damaris goes to work as a secretary for Gavin after the death of her father.
This book is a shining example of Barbara Michaels’ gothic work.
The reader soon becomes lost in the story, hoping everything will work out for Damaris while all the while knowing it will end happily.
However, the sense of time is off throughout the story.
The reader never doubts that this is a contemporary story set in Victorian times.
Oh my gawd, I need to get more gothic romance to use as trash books. Why have I been wasting time on thrillers? It was so readable and fun. Tons of descriptions of the castle and clothing. Ridiculous lines that were unintentionally funny. I love all of the time devoted to Toby the cat and Flame the horse. There was some ableism that was unnecessary though.
Set in 1850's this tale is full of old fashioned virtues and the main heroine's way of breaking them.This is a tale reminiscent of Beauty and the Beast as another reviewer has said, where Damaris who has lost her father at a young age has decided to work as a librarian for Sir Gavin Hamilton.
He a brute and barbarian with scars and wild hair who occupied a half demolished castle in Scotland and she a young and quite feisty female who wouldn't dream of living the low standard of having to marry and have as much voice as a piece of furniture in those times.
I picked up a handful of Barbara Michaels's books at a used bookstore on vacation in NC for $2 each.
I also appreciate a book set in Scotland where the author doesn't hit us over the head with Scottish (Och wee laddie, etc).Cons: definitely written in the 1960s and there were a couple of times where she just was overwhelmed with stress, had a lady meltdown, fell into his arms, and somehow passionately kissed...just the way it was written was a bit of an eye roller.
It was a nice, quick read, but my favorite Michaels so far is still "The Wizard's Daughter."
*Happy sigh* This is a really good Gothic mystery, with hints of Jane Eyre and The Secret Garden.It wasn't available through my local library, so I borrowed it from OpenLibrary.org.
This was a pretty good Gothic suspense novel, very Jane Eyre-ish. But the ending was too abrupt for me.
Michaels does a good job of emulating the traditional high Gothic romance of the 18th/19th centuries.
Gavin is mysterious, arrogant, and brooding, and of course Damaris falls in love with him.
And, as this is Gothic, there are of course secrets hiding in the woodwork that Damaris must uncover, for she ignores them at her peril.
I loved Michaels description; this was one of those rare books in which I felt like I was actually present in the spaces being described.
In short, with the exception of Gavin, I loved the book.
#2015-Reading-Challenge-Group--week-48: a book written by an author with your same initials.
I've chosen this early gothic-romance mystery by Barbara Michaels because I've enjoyed other mysteries by Barbara Mertz under her pen name, Elizabeth Peters.
Not too bad a read for Michael's debut attempt at writing a gothic romance, which already exhibits her amusing writing style.
Set in 1853, the heroine, Damaris Gordon, an independent and feisty red-haired beauty, must find a way to support herself after her father's death.
Gavin Hamilton is the scarred, dark, enigmatic master of the ancient Scottish castle, Blacktower, and of course Damaris soon falls in love.
Once upon a time, an archaeology student decided to try to write a gothic novel, and thus began the long and illustrious career of Barbara Michaels aka Elizabeth Peters.
I have read many of this author's books over the last 30 years, and enjoyed every one.
She writes good characters, lovely twisty plots, and for pure entertainment without lurid sex or violence, she can't be beat.
She does include a little of the supernatural in many of her books -- which I enjoy.
It all got better from here, but this one was a good first attempt in itself.
A good old fashioned gothic romance. I'm sure I must have read this when it first came out in the late 60s when I was devouring gothics but nothing was familiar. A brooding, secretive hero, penniless but plucky heroine, a menacing old house complete with crumbling medieval tower rumored to house a ghost, convoluted connections, perilous chases and confrontations. It kept me reading and even though not all threads of the story were adequately tied up there was the requisite happy ending for the H&h. Brought back memories of my reading youth.
This book seemed to be trying very hard to follow in the footsteps of Jane Eyre but had none of the depth or passion of Bronte's novel. Nor were the characters that likeable. It was moderately OK in its own way for most of the book, but the conclusion was very choppy, very abrupt and very unsatisfying.
One of the first books she wrote under the pseudonym Barbara Michaels; a Gothic style thriller. Very good, very suspenseful, but needed a denouement; ended too abruptly.
One of the great classic gothics. Crackling with fabulous chilling atmospherics.
Absolutely adore this bookThis is a favorite, I recently purchased and re-read. I love it. The characters are so well formed and played. The plot and twist keep you flipping and it is a smooth and delicious read. LOVE
I enjoyed this early Barbara Michaels book...it dragged a little (I guess I wanted the ending I wanted a few times, but the author had other ideas!). It is well-written and I loved the characters!
Well! Wow! That was some story. That is all.
A purely ridiculous gothic novel that doesn’t pretend to be anything more. At least I hope not; I like to believe the author just had fun with it.
Gavin Hamilton has to be one of the most swoonworthy heroes of gothic romance ever.
A fast-paced romantic thriller with strong Jane Eyre undertones (okay, they are super overt actually), The Master of Blacktower is an entertaining though not all together satisfying read.This was my first Barbara Michaels book, and though I had some problems with it I will probably try some of her others as well.
My biggest problem was that the heroine, Damaris, is a bit of a sop for most of the book.
Still, Michaels can obviously spin a good story with twists and turns, and I'm hoping that some of her other heroines will make more of an impression on me.
i have always been a fan of Barbara Michaels.
Her books have filled a lazy afternoon many a time.
But this...I can't believe that she wrote this book.
It was obsolutely lifeless.
I read the last paragraph of the book, and continued turning pages thinking that certainly that wasn't it.
It was even a cliff hanger, it was...nothing.I honestly wish I had something good to say about this book, but I feel like I wasted several hours of my life that I'll never get back again.
Yep, but what is a book review unless it is filled with honesty.
“What is the secret that haunts the master of Blacktower?
His hands were encased in black silk gloves, a lurid scar twisting the roughly hewn features of his face.
his dark eyes blazed and his mocking laughter echoed to the highest tower of the ancient Scottish estate.
Damaris Gordon knew she could never work for a cruel and bitter man-a tortured by disfigurement, disillusion and dark secrets of the past.
Was he responsible for his wife's death?
Or the injury that crippled his young daughter?
Curiosity lured Damaris to the top of the tower in search of the truth.
This is the second time I've read this, but it had been long enough that I'd forgotten all the details.I had also forgotten how much I enjoy a good gothic romance.
And this was DEFINITELY gothic - you've got the crumbling castle in the middle of nowhere, the brooding (scarred, even!) lord of the manor, the rumors in the village of ghosts and foul play, and of course our hesitant-yet-determined heroine.I'm actually checking now to see if there was a crash of thunder when they first saw the castle.
I can't wait to dig into Greygallows next.
I don't care if it's ridiculous.
I want it.After reading:Yeah, it was ridiculous but not in the way you'd think.
I would never have guessed from the writing style or the heroine that this book had been written fifty years ago.
It felt modern and was definitely fun.
There was a huge amount of tension, something that's impressive for what's basically a Jane Eyre knock off.
The heroine found herself spontaneously in love with the hero.
All I could wonder was whether or not he was s serial killer, and not in a good way.
Overall I'm glad I got the chance to read it.
Predictable especially to those who are familiar with Jane Eyre.
Not my usual genre but I know that I can trust Elizabeth Peters to have a few entertaining hours reading.
It's alright since it's written 50 years ago and likely her first book.
It reminds me of some of her later books in the same genre that I read ages ago.
She certainly improved with storytelling and writing since this one - not that she wasn't good at telling stories to start with - from what little I could remember, the later books have simpler yet more consistent plots and characters.
Upon the death of her scholar father, Damaris Gordon is left with two choices, marriage to her dull but respectable cousin Randall, and seeking paid employment. Hired as his secretary by Gavin Hamilton, the mysterious, hideously scarred Master of Blacktower, she travels to Scotland to reorganize his library. Of course, danger and romance await. Pretty standard Gothic fare, but enjoyable as Barbara Michaels' books always are. I believe this was one of her first novels, and she does a creditable job, despite obvious echoes of classics such as Jane Eyre and The Secret Garden.
It remained me very much of Rebecca and Beauty of the Beast.I really appreciate the works of Barbara Michaels and her way of telling the story is always very mesmerizing, thus the 3 stars. This time though, I didn't connect at all with the story or any of the characters. The female character is bond by the limits that were imposed on women at the time but I still think that she could have had a little more spark. The plot was simple and I was able to predict the ending after the first 3 chapters.
Cleanliness rating? - PG. A few swear words, mild violence.
Jane Eyre feeling all over it, but it has a good story, acceptable mystery but a not so good ending...what about the rest? I was a bit surprised but it's not the first book from this autor that ends like that. There were some things that bothered me, specially the language they used, it wasn't a typical language for a victorian era, to formal to...modern? I don't know, but as i said, it was a good story that kept me glued to the book for 2 days.
This is a terrific Gothic romance. It has all the right elements: a dark, scarred hero, a remote mansion, a dead wife, an invalid child, and an innocent secretary/governess. Add in well-detailed antagonists and background characters and it is a worthy light read. If you like Gothic romances, you'll love this book. If you enjoy Barbara Michaels's novels, you'll like this book at the very least.
