https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1932185.The_Rise_of_the_West
This book may be outdated, and the title is a little bit of a misfit, but it still is a very impressive read. William McNeill was the first one to focus in a systematic way on the interactions between cultures and regions. He truly deserves to be named "the real father of Global History". See my more elaborate review in my Sense-of-History-account: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
It heaves and frets beneath the artificial political map like some misfitted giant."McNeill's panoramic view of history is cut from the same cloth: cultural in continuous clash with political and societal priorities often at odds with pressure building up like a tectonic fault.
There are ample plates of pictures and ampler footnotes as McNeill consulted libraries of information and summarizes it all with an obvious love for history and the drama of the human story and he isn't afraid to say when there are things he doesn't understand and seem missing from the published expertise.Somehow, the thought of Greek culture persisting in India long after Alexander's brush with the subcontinent is particularly intriguing and I'd like to know more about this.
The Rise of the West is an attempt to follow in the footsteps of Toynbee, to create a synthesis of the entirety of human history, from the beginning of paleolithic man up through the Cold War. This is a huge task, and by necessity and design, McNeil will make sweeping generalizations about entire cultures, often covering vast centuries in single sentences.
This perpetual borrowing of technology, culture, and ideas spurs development and has basically been the pattern up until the present day.
While McNeil clearly is more familiar with the history of the west than with other civilizations, he is trying to explain why western culture seems to dominate.
Yet information is outdated as new sources or archaeological evidence has changed our understanding of several civilizations over the last 50 years.The Rise of the West takes a long time to read, however the information—though outdated in places—gives the reader a great overview of world history on every point of the globe.
Aku tidak pernah membaca suatu rekonstruksi semula akan kesan dan impak kaum-kaum gasar, yang nyata sekali bukanlah monolitik di dalam tatahidup mereka, terhadap tamadun-tamadun terbesar dunia yang lebih unggul daripada apa yang dipersembahkan McNeill di sini.Perlu dititipkan di sini bahawa konsep tamadun yang disebutkan penulis, pada pendapat aku, adalah datang daripada paradigma Toynbee-ian.
Juga beliau menjangkakan dunia yang semakin aman dengan kewujudan suatu badan berkanun trans-nasional (PBB?) yang ditunjangi sistem birokrasi moden akan membantutkan inovasi baru di dalam sains teknologi atau pengurusan sosial - unjuran beliau ini mungkin banyak dipengaruhi oleh apa yang telah berlaku kepada sistem birokasi China yang berusia 2 ribu tahun itu.
My narrow-minded European-centered history view has been changed forever!Ofcourse, 50 years later, much of the details are not up-to-date any more, but the basic asumption of the book, that human civilisation has grown (with ups and downs) through the never-ending interaction between humans, institutions, and civilizations, this asumption remains true, although McNeill himself, in his accompanying essay, dated 1990, enumerates some fundamental flaws in his story (surprisingly, he thinks he has given too little attention to Chinese history).
Some of these flaws he has adjusted in his book The Human Web, written with his son.
I cannot rate this book highly enough.
It is the best basic history book in existence, going from Sumer to the middle of the 20th Century.
Anyone who wants a thorough overview of history from Sumeria to the 1950s, this is the book.
It should be noted that while he calls the book "Rise of the West," he covers India, China, and the Americas as well.
In fact, this is one of the best books I've ever read on India prior to the Moghuls.
He includes a long section on the relation between China and the subcontinent.
A lot of the history reports changes of political control in the civilizations.
McNeill inventories the discoveries and inventions (especially military) that influenced historical events, such as the war chariots, the phalanx, armored cavalry, the plow, the steam engine, gunpowder, the compass, the printing press, etc.
The compass, invented in China, made sea explorations and the discovery of the Americas possible.
Western Europe began to dominate the world after 1850 due to the industrial revolution, advanced technology and its restless, curious culture.I haven't read many world history books and am not a historian, so I can't vouch for its authority.
First read this in college more than 50 years ago. In rereading it, I realized how much it shaped my understanding of the world. Of course I understood it better now than at age 18. A well-written, enjoyable history of the world.
This book, though dated, is good for anyone who wants a general history of world civilization.
It is called the Rise of the West, I am assuming because the West has become the most powerful culture in the world.
It seems the general movement of the book is how all these cultures interacted and over time the West became the most powerful.
If you're looking for a history of the world focusing on interactions of cultures, check this one out.
Spectacular. Don't be fooled by the first half of the title. Starting from ancient Sumer, McNeil travels back and forth across continents and oceans to outline A History of the Human Community defined by the cycle of growth->collision->merger->repeat until we reach the era when McNeil was writing, when minimal area of the globe remained untouched by globalizing influences. An excellent survey of world history, rich with detail, very evenhanded, and a great introduction to so many fascinating topics.
In addition to how well written this book is, it is nice to read history that goes beyond the last hundred years. In this case only about 200 or 800+ pages are given to 1500 to present, which is remarkable considering how history is periodized in the academy. Despite many outdated arguments, the core idea of the centrality of cross cultural interactions creating change is still relevant today.
This is one of the volumes that is always on my shelf. I cannot count the times I have referred back to this tome for an answer or insight into some aspect of World History. Highly recommended.
One of the better overviews from the early river valley civilizations to the 20th century
بلح.Boring narration of history, by a biased author who has serious issues with his methodology.
While absorbing all the information in this book was not my goal, I feel the narrative about the west is much clearer in my head now.
Western Europe was neither so free nor so intensely creative; yet there, too, we can perhaps detect the stimulating effect of circumstances that called forth conflicting energies of a larger proportion of the total population than could ever find expression in a society dominated by just a few individuals of comparatively homogeneous, though much more refined, outlook." (p.558-559) McNeill's walk through human history provides a solid framework for the study of history, and a clearer view of our own times.
Большая книга. Титанической труд. Книга рассказывает о развитии 4 цивилизаций Земли и их взаимодействии. Все события представлены в большим масштабе. События выстроены в единую историю. Начиная с первобытного человека в каменном веке и до 1960 года.Для меня книга расставила многие исторические события по своим местам. Кто такие шумеры, почему одни цивилизации вытеснялись другими, влияние политики, экономики и культуры на восхождение западной Европы и т.д.Книга написана простым и понятным языком. Читается легко.Советую прочитать если есть интерес разобраться в мировой истории.
A meticulous, scholarly defense of a thesis that situates inter-civilizational conflict as the driving force of human advancement. Drawbacks: the reduction of civilizational dynamics to a Hegelian dialectic and the introductory pages that would make Chesterton choke with their story-telling about 'caveman' societies.
William Hardy McNeill won the 2009 National Medal of Arts and National Humanities Medal.
I added this to my To Read list since both Brian Eno and Stewart Brand include McNeill in their Long Now lists. I knew his name from the Big History conference I went to. I had his more recent "The Human Web," but I donated it to Piya's history class.
This was published about 1963, an older history. In the new intro to this book McNeill points out its flaws, which more recent findings have revealed. It took me many lunches at home to finish this tome. But it was a good read.
The Rise of the West: A History of the Human Community by William McNeill (1992)
My dad's always talking about this one, so I guess it's about time I read it.
Rating this as historiography, not as good history.
A beautiful book which may now show its age, but paved the way for a whole new field of history to emerge.
A nice fat history, seemed very reliable.
It is a somewhat dated, somewhat Eurocentric view of the world, but still my favorite book about the rise of civilzation as we know it.
I read McNeill's Book; very interesting!
