https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120009.The_Basil_and_Josephine_Stories
My brain says Hemingway but my heart and soul belong to Fitzgerald.
The Basil stories are based on FSF's own life and center on a boy/young man growing up, his ambitions and efforts to be both successful and well-liked.
The Josephine stories are apparently based on a real-life young woman FSF was in love with in his youth.
Basil is more interesting and Josephine, being a woman, is punished for her sins!
Oh FSF.
I love you in spite of yourself.
I didn't really love either Basil or Josephine, and in my opinion these stories are for the hard core Fitzgerald fan (me).
Teenage lives, treated with an ironic aestheticism.
The Midwest back when it was the Middle West.
Like always,Fitzgerald takes one small part and adds his own sense of grandeur and makes it a delicacy. This one doesn't have a good plot but the author makes up for it with his dialogues. Here's an example- "It isn't given to us to know those rare moments when people are wide open and the lightest touch can either or heal. A moment too late and we can never reach them anymore in this world. They will not be cured by our most efficacious drugs or slain with our sharpest swords." A pleasant quick-read.
One of my absolute favorite books. I love these well written stories! The characters, the time period, (just before the first world war) the places - the way F. Scott Fitzgerald brings it all to life for us, and makes us long to be able to experience a moment or two alongside them in their lives...F. Scott Fitzgerald's youth is in here with such poignancy it is palatable. A treasure!
2.5 stars.I never thought I'd rate an FSF book so low, but I just couldn't get into this one.
I didn't care for Basil or Josephine- I found them both irritating and I also kept pitying Basil, who tried so hard to be good and kept falling into the same problems.
The only reason I was able to finish this book is because FSF's writing is always so good.
To be fair, I'm not big on short stories, but I think I found these especially hard to get through because they were always the same story, with the same lesson learned by the end, and then repeated in the next story.
A rare FSF miss for me.
2.5Overall very unimpressed with this short story collection. I've loved everything I've read by FSF and I expected/wanted to love this too! I found all the themes (or at least how they were presented) very shallow and badly rehashed versions of what he's done in previous stories. I found the conclusion to Josephine's stories particularly disappointing; FSF writes brilliant women and I don't understand how he could be at the same time preaching these types of beliefs.
Ojalá hubiera leído este libro hace algunos años, es fantástico. Una razón más para admirar profundamente a Scott.
Maybe more of a 3.5--- some were better than others.I can't believe these stories were never compiled all together during Fitzgerald's lifetime. Together, you get a complete picture of the title characters in the linked stories--- kind of like Updike's Maples Stories or Winesburg Ohio. Uneven, but I always enjoy Fitzgerald.
Such perfect prose and such insight into the human heart and mind.
I will never grow tired of Fitzgerald; his works are truly genius and the world would be worse without him.
I preferred the Basil to the Josephine stories - possibly because Basil was closer to FSF's own experience, whereas he gets a bit didactic with Josephine.
If the Josephine stories were as good as the Basil ones this would have been five stars.
Being a youth, Basil is not ruined by a woman like so many of Fitzgerald's other male characters, but had he made this work into a novel (as he had planned) one can prophecy the sad fate of Basil Lee. Reading the Josephine stories, one gets the idea that Fitzgerald, despite some misogyny in many of his works (including this one) can write believable stories not only of a young boy coming of age in Minnesota, but of a young girl coming of age as well.
Basil Duke Lee, from age 11 to 17, is the subject of the first set of short stories by F.
Basil's goal is to be the most admired and popular boy of his social circle and he thinks he has hit upon a tactic that will work to attract Minnie Biddle, the most popular belle of the St. Paul Summitt Avenue set that season.
Josephine Perry, from age 16 to 18, is the femme fatale "star" of the second set of stories.
As always, Fitzgerald's stories are very autobiographical with the experiences of Basil based heavily on his own life and times and Josephine on Ginevra King, of Chicago, Fitzgerald's first serious crush.
The writing and plots were typically good, but Basil himself drove me up the wall.
He was, according to the stories, "fresh"; I prefer to call it being a whiny little know-it-all who doesn't know when to shut his mouth.
But I give the stories credit for being effective in creating a three dimensional and entirely believable character.I really enjoyed the Josephine stories, although I had a bit of a 21st century reaction to the moral of the final story (which was that poor Josephine had kissed so many boys she didn't care about that she wasn't able to properly feel for the love of her life once he made an appearance).
It seemed a little much to me, but it wasn't enough to put me off the stories.
Basil is a thinly disguised FSF, and Josephine is a not so thinly disguised Ginevra King.
Fitzgerald admitted as much when he revealed that he was still bleeding from the loss of Ginevra in 1917 when he wrote "This Side of Paradise." She is laced through many of his works.
I had to keep reminding myself that Fitzgerald had already created Amory Blaine, Anthony Patch, Jay Gatsby, Nick Carraway, and had long been working on Dick Diver, when he created Basil Duke Lee. He is every bit as complex a character and we can see him maturing as we read the stories sequentially.
A common theme of these stories is his trying too hard to move up the society latter and trying too hard for the unobtainable girl, with him slowly maturing from story to story until he becomes somewhat comfortable in his own skin in the last story He then wrote a similar series featuring Josephine, a beautiful daughter from a rich society family in Chicago whose young life was dominated by her beauty, her infatuation and easy way with men and inability to meet the social mores of the dayThese magazine stories were not published in a collection until well after his death and I seem to remember Hemingway disparaging them in the Movable Feast as quick stories to make money.These are good stories but do not match the greatness of Fitzgerald's novels.
"Last night in bed I was thinking of the sort of man I really could love, but he'd be different from anybody I've ever met.
And everytime I looked at him I'd have to get that tingle I sometimes get out of a new man; only with him I'd have to get it over and over everytime I looked at him, all my life""And you'd want him to be very much in love with you.
That's what I'd want first of all." "Of course," said Josephine abstractedly, "but principally I'd want to be always sure of loving him.
This was a pretty good read.
There are too many movies and television shows that seem to always get this part of history wrong.And I completely disagree with the Introduction-I thought Josephine was a truly interesting character-almost like a pre-Scarlette O'Hara!
is Fitzy when he was a kid was kind of bland-like he was painting a rosier picture of himself than in real life.
Also the more I read F.S.F the more I realize this man was girl crazy!
Every book he ever wrote seems like some sort of wish fulfillment fantasy he acted out in his head for one particular girl.
For the most part, I really enjoyed these short stories.
I'm especially glad I read them before beginning The Great Gatsby, as they seem a natural precursor to the novel.
The stories deal mainly with growing up (primarily with childish romance) and with wealth.
However, I really could only read one story per day because of the incessant flightiness of Fitzgerald's protagonists that is a key part of his commentary on life for the American wealthy.
If I had to choose a favorite story, it would be "A Snobbish Story", which relates Josephine's (one of the two characters of focus in this collection of stories)final commitment to her social and economic status.
In which Fitzgerald fictionalizes his own adolescence. Like his Pat Hobby sequence, these stories are probably a lot more satisyfing collected than they would be separately, even though they were originally published that way. Together, they read as episodes in the characters' lives, and there's less pressure for each story to be self-contained, which they aren't, really.The Basil Lee stories are much better than the Josephine Perry stories. (Fitzgerald, it seems, doesn't know much about female adolescence.) And no one would consider either story cycle superior to the last three novels. But--again, like Pat Hobby--they have a certain charm.
A few short stories each about the teenage characters Basil and Josephine. The Basil stores are really fantastic. The final two stories in the Basil series are really poignant and could almost be Salinger stories. The Josephine stories unfortunately are bitter and less carefully written. I've been reading a lot of Fitzgerald short stories recently and unfortunately their quality is uneven. The worst are contrived, and obviously driven by commercial interests. I can recommend the Basil stories as real Fitzgerald.
This collection of short stories (featuring two protagonists—Basil and Josephine) contains some of F. Scott's best writing. While the stories are inconsistent, they brilliantly capture the early years of the 1900s and of (presumably) F. Scott's life. It's a shame he never finished this work and was unable to combine the stories into a single narrative, but for any fan of Fitzgerald it's a definite "must" to read. You will be re-reading certain sentences over and over again and marveling at their beauty.
This is my favorite book in the world and I just re-read it on the plane and I was dumbstruck by how brilliant it is.
F. Scott was embarrassed by it because it was about kids which is hilarious because that's where his best stuff usually came from.
It is all about this boy and this girl, they each get their separate set of stories.
One of them is a stand in for Fitzgerald himself, and the other is a "speed" that's 20s slang for hipster, who is hot and gets with guys a lot.
It is a history lesson and a study in human psychology and a haunting beautiful lesson in how to write.
Wrote while he struggled with, in my opinion, his sub-par novel Tender is the Night, Fitzgerald wrote the 9 stories about Basil and 5 stories about Josephine. His character development is rich and real and deeply moving. I favored the Josephine stories, perhaps because I am a woman, but the Basil ones were excellent as well. I highly recommend this look into the young Americans of the 1910's.
FSF's popular books and stories reflect the lives of up and coming,or trying to anyway, 20 somethings, just like FSF was when he wrote them.His end of the career Pat Hobby stories record a crashed career 40yr old,just as he was at the time. The Basil & Josephine stories differ in that they look back tohis childhood & adolescent days. Though Basil seems like a confidentof his success 25 yr old, in short pants.
I finally finished Fitzgerald's short stories!! They were quite amusing and old-timey. I love Fitzgerald's writing style. The plot can a bit boring and predictable from time to time but for the most part they were enjoyable. Also, the ones with Basil were way more fun than the ones with Josephine to be honest.
It started out strong, but started to become a little repetitive. Not a problem when publishing in the short story format, but as a collection it's better read in sections. The Basil section was much more interesting than the Josephine section, which is too bad because I was looking forward to a good girl coming-of-age story. I guess I'll just have to stick to Ramona Quimby.
I fell in love with the Josephine Stories (screw you, Basil) when I was seventeen, as they ring so true in how silly/awful it is to be a swoony sixteen year old girl, not to mention the gorgeous 1920's Chicago/Lake Geneva backdrop they take place in. I'm currently trying to push them onto my own sixteen-year-old sister as a measure of self-awareness, but she'll have none of it. Of course.
