https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28789711-spqr
There are fascinating tidbits in here (some likely apocryphal, though those instances are dutifully noted), and Beard’s scholarship is beyond reproach, but the aforementioned scope/breadth makes the book a challenging read.It’s hard to digest and absorb this much history and information, much less to synthesize any meaning from it.
That focus is rare in books about Rome.
And she spends time on both views.The book begins at around 63 BCE at the time when Cicero, consul of Rome, stopped a threat to the state by Catiline, an upper class failed politician.
It begins then not because the event was sufficiently dramatic (though it was), but because a significant body of Roman writing exists from that time.
Although she analyzes Rome's beginning, she does it from the point of view of Ciceros era because of the availability of records.
She makes quite clear how the western view of Rome has shifted over time.

Plenty of reviewers have given Beard the equivalent of four or five stars, but when someone says this is a definitive history of Rome from the pre-republic kings to Caracalla, I'd have to say "No, not really." Like many recent books on the fall of Rome that do an adequate but scarcely stellar job, Beard's book of early Rome is a worthy read, but not the comprehensive study it might have been.This book is valuable because Beard reinforces the message again and again that we cannot rely on the prose, even the histories, of Roman and Greek writers from the time in question, because of the natural human tendency to exaggerate and tell half a tale.
The same fundamental mechanisms, structures and dynamics run on until 212 AD then there is a shift towards late antiquity and a Christian Empire, implicitly something so deeply different that it would require another book.The significant point was the career of Augustus who stabilised the unsteady republic: "Autocracy represented, in a sense, an end of history...unlike the story of the development of the republic and the growth of Imperial power, which revolutionised almost every aspect of the world of Rome, there was no fundamental change in the structure of Roman politics, empire or society between the end of the first century BCE and the end of the second century CE" (p.336).
She tells what is known and what is not.Starting with Romulus and Remus she gives exactly the background the general reader wants.
She further explains how the Sabine women came to be raped and why they are considered peace makers.Beard gives the reader a feel for what it was like to live in Rome at the different times.
Most books on Rome report what is known, but just don’t mention some fundamentals the reader wants to know.
Lots of books cover Roman money, and may tell you how much a house cost.
Historian Mary Beard covers the first 1000 years of Roman history, from its humble beginnings when (supposedly) Romulus killed his brother Remus before founding what would become the city of Rome, to around the time when Christianity sunk its fangs into the empire to become its main religion, in SPQR.
Which isn’t to say it’s inaccessible – Beard writes in a way most people will be able to follow – it’s just that a lot of the book focuses on the minutiae of how Roman society operated and that turned out to not be very enthralling.
"SPQR" tells the history of the first millennium of ancient Rome--from the mythical Romulus and Remus in the 8th Century BCE to 212 CE when Roman citizenship was given to every free inhabitant of the empire by Caracalla.
Quite a bit of information is included about the lives of the lower classes, slaves, women, and people in the far-flung provinces of the Roman empire in addition to the history of the famous Romans.
Although most of the book is chronological, the author sometimes tells events out of order so some background in the subject can be helpful.Mary Beard is an engaging author who is sometimes humorous or satirical.
That's fine, but to say that Beard is breaking new ground by writing about the Republic and early Empire is ridiculous, and to give the book such a broad subtitle is simply misleading.
That aside, it's an exceptionally easy read, with a form that lets Beard and her readers have it both ways: we get to grumble about the silliness of Great Man history and decry the lack of a focus on women, slaves, provinces and colonies etc in so much ancient history...
In S.P.Q.R., Beard changes our historical perspective, exploring how the Romans themselves challenged the idea of imperial rule, how they responded to terrorism and revolution, and how they invented a new idea of citizenship and nation, while also keeping her eye open for those overlooked in traditional histories: women, slaves and ex-slaves, conspirators, and losers.
Opens 63BCE and Cicero's Finest Hour and the Catiline CaperWe all love Mary Beard, especially when she reminds us that Rome was founded entirely by folk from elsewhere; a learning point for present day Europe perhaps.Poussin - Rape of the SabinePicasso's version28.12.2015 "This year saw reports of two executions of high-ranking North Korean officials and an endless stream of speculation about Kim Jong-un and his leadership style.
Because it is history written with common sense, a point of view and a healthy level of snark just to keep things interesting.
She isn't doing revisionist history --- neither of them emerges as being someone you would particularly like to know --- but Beard succeeds brilliantly in making the reader re-think alternative narratives for each emperor, interpretations that portray them in a less over-the-top way than usual.
Beard makes a convincing case that native peoples bought into the idea of Rome enough to make the government relatively easy enough.
Nothing wrong with that, of course, but I wanted to broaden my literary horizons again and to explore some areas I'd previously neglected.One of those areas is history and where better to start than with the ancient Romans?
The author writes in a conversational tone and never tries to bamboozle the reader with technical jargon (I'm not entirely sure what comprises technical jargon in the history field but, still, credit where credit's due).
What more could you want from your first history book?I enjoyed reading this and made short work of it.
"Roman historians complained about almost exactly the same issue as the modern historian faces: when they tried to write the history of this period, they found that so much of importance had happened in private, hater than publicly in the senate house or Form as before, that it was hard to know exactly what had taken place, let alone how to explain it."- Mary Beard, SPQRSenātus PopulusQue Rōmānus (SPQR)I've been reading a bunch of classics the last couple years.
I'm right in the middle of the Loeb Livy, enjoyed the last couple years reading Caesar, Tacitus, Suetonius, Plutarch, Gibbon, etc.
Fantastic!
Mary Beard's history of the first thousand years or so of ancient Rome never flags, maintaining a brisk, engaging tone and offering a level of detail just right for a general audience.
If you've previously read a bit about Rome, Beard's book probably won't offer much new information, but she has a knack for posing interesting questions, suggesting fresh juxtapositions, and presenting seemingly familiar stories in thought-provoking ways.
I listened to the audio version of this, published by Recorded Books and read by Phyllida Nash, with the physical book on hand for reference (the illustrations are certainly not necessary, but are nice to have), and enjoyed it tremendously.
The tale of not how Rome fell, but how it rose.Recommended.
that said as part of a buddy read this title was suggested to me and I must admit once I was past all the questionable notes of praise (come on which publisher does not do that) I very quickly learnt that this book was incredibly well researched and (especially for me) easy to access with details presented in such a way even I a total history novice could not only understand but visualise.
True we may be shaped by the knowledge we have of Rome (the very name of this book is in fact discussed, explaining the phrase is used in modern and Roman politics) but also the fact that human needs and greeds shape their politics very much the same way it is today.
A great book for someone like me, coming to Roman history with only basic prior knowledge - let's say Asterix-level knowledge (as we all know, SPQR stands for "sono pazzi questi romani" - these Romans are crazy).
How did Rome feed itself, where did it get its marble, where did the money come from, the people to populate the armies.
When the alleged words of Boadicea come down to us, and we find out that the person who wrote them down lived 100 years after her, how can we trust them?
There’s a lot of names and dates to begin with, and I sat there thinking “oh god, it’s going to be like a textbook.” But it didn’t take long to get out of that.
And I think that just made the book feel a tad more personal rather that textbook-like, which really helped get through it.I also loved how there were so many graphics involved.
I’m now so excited to read stories from the days of Ancient Rome, or fiction retellings based on old stories and myths.While I know this book really isn’t for everybody, it came to me just at the right time.
Finally, the significant advances in archeology of the last fifty years do not provide any information on Rome's political history.Thus for the two-thirds of SPQR Ms. Beard simply does what every historian since Edward Gibbon (1737-1794 CE) has done.
Next to Gibbon and Syme, Beard is a miserable second rater.In the last third of the book, Beard finally decides to make use of the writings based on new archeological work that has been performed at sites in the Empire outside of the walls of Rome.
I’ve never read anything quite like this examination of Ancient Rome and that is the main reason I enjoyed it so much.Mary Beard distinguishes her  Senatus Populusque Romanus (The Senate and People of Rome).
I just love everything about it from an organization standpoint.I found it interesting that Beard notes that Rome’s founding story (Romulus and Remus) is unique because it’s not typical.
I always find any information on Rome and women interesting mainly because we don’t know too much, especially ordinary women, not necessarily the relations of emperors.
Fascinating.
Not strictly chronological--starts with Cicero and Catiline: how Cicero "saved" Rome, then Roman history from its beginnings--two founding stories: Romulus and Remus & Aeneas up through Caracalla, who in 212 AD made every freeborn Roman automatically a citizen.
Beard shatters many of our misconceptions.
I enjoyed most the section on Pliny the Younger and on the "haves and have-nots"--rich and poor.
Over half covered early Rome through the Republic, then why the Republic fell and Emperors.
Beard feels we can't so much learn from the Romans as respect and dialogue with them.
I feel this is destined to become a classic in its field.Highly recommended.
I was all ready to roll up my sleeves to outline some of my disappointments in this book but found that the words had already been taken out of my mouth. Here's an exceptional review, as I might have written! https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...While I enjoyed it well enough, I felt there was just enough disorganization within it to leave me slightly annoyed with Beard's process.

After fighting my way through the first hundred pages, much of which focuses on the limitations of historical sources and the myths Romans told themselves about their history, I skipped to the end to see if there was anything to salvage from this tome.
On the penultimate page, Beard explains her purpose and made me think that I should have expended more effort with her book:"I no longer think as I once naively did, that we have much to learn directly from the Romans....
I enjoyed this book immensely and found much new (to me at least) in it.
In particular, Mary Beard carefully analyses the creation myth of Rome and finds it to be just that with no evidence for the existence of Romulus and Remus and not much more for its line of kings.
Mary Beard is very hard on poor old Claudius as well as Cicero and other prominent figures.
There is much on the contrasts in Roman society between rich and poor and on Rome's military adventures.
Apart from the contents, the book is beautifully written, for my taste, with a strong authorial voice and a sharp wit.
An excellent history of Rome's first thousand years for the general readerI have always been fascinated as to how one small town in central Italy came to dominate the whole Mediterranean for centuries. This book provides one attempt at an answer - insofar as there can be one.It is easy to read - one minute giving a broad overview, then illustrating it with a detail from the life of a real person. The text is augmented by diagrams, photos and maps to aid understanding and reinforce certain points.I found it erudite, fascinating and immensely enjoyable.
Sin embargo, es muy interesante que ya entonces se enfrentaran a ciertos problemas que aún hoy se mantienen vigentes, como la multiculturalidad o qué supone ser "ciudadano" de un país (o de un Imperio, en el caso romano).
Me ha gustado mucho eso, el hacer hincapié en toda la información que falta y en las teorías que existen para explicar lo que no sabemos por medio de las fuentes que nos han llegado o hemos encontrado.
Y es muy interesante lo que Mary Beard tiene que decir de las mujeres o los pobres, por ser dos grupos sociales de los que no se tiene información directa y que siempre aparecen ensombrecidos.Me ha parecido un libro interesante y entretenido.
It was nice to get more context for that, to know more about the actual grounding in fact — and to learn about Rome as a Republic, before the emperors, and to what extent it was ever democratic.And of course, instead of focusing on why the Roman Empire fell, Beard focuses here on why it became great (while never glossing over the defeats and setbacks they suffered, which people can be prone to do).
But really, Beard isn’t writing just about the Empire, but about the Roman people, and what Rome meant to the world.
A worthy read and an interesting one. Drier in parts than I had hoped, but overall educational.
And in the meanwhile, she brings great insights into living conditions within Rome itself over this approximate millennium that her book focuses on, the kinds of things Romans did for fun, how exactly urban life was set up back when a million people lived together without indoor plumbing or a police department, as well as extended looks at the ways the various colonies influenced and had a pull over what normal life was like in the capital as well.
