https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74997.Five_Run_Away_Together
Why do people have to pay money to the government if they want to bring things from abroad?”“What do gorse bushes and heathers look like?”“Julian is the smartest but he likes to order the other kids around.
He’s kind of bossy, but in a good way.”“Anne likes to do girly things, like making beds and sandwiches.
I don’t like to do girly things, but I also don’t want to be a boy like George.
I think this is the funniest Famous Five book that I’ve ever read.”“Anne is TWELVE and she doesn’t know what kidnapper means?”“What is a ‘ransom’?”
As the book moves swiftly to its climax and Anne—who is such a good little housewife!—transforms a hidden cavern into a right proper English pantry, the four (plus Timmy!) consume soup, tins of meat, tins of fruit, tinned milk, sardines, tinned butter, more biscuits, tinned vegetables, and lashings of ginger beer, in addition to chunks from a tin of pineapple, more sardines dug out with biscuits, hot cocoa, a ham and a loaf of bread, a jar of pickles, boiled tongue, tinned peaches, bread and butter, golden syrup, additional lashings of ginger beer, even more sardines, pressed beef sandwiches, tinned apricots, tinned milk, tinned salmon, two more tins of peaches, another tin of milk, more bread and butter, and a big jug of cocoa.
The book concludes with more cocoa all around, and a juicy bone for Timmy!Oh, and there's something about smugglers and a child's kidnapping.
And to cap it all, George grows worried that the Sticks plan to poison her dog (there are a good number of threatened and attempted poisonings of Timmy across the series and at least one successful though non fatal attempt).George runs off to her island and the others follow.
Did I mention that in addition to the castle (emptied of its gold by the children in book 1) the island has an exposed shipwreck and a cave?
This is a pretty good entry in the Famous Five series. It's slightly darker than the first two books but nothing young children won't be able to cope with and enjoy.What I particularly enjoyed was the twist at the beginning of act three. I didn't see it coming (apparently Sunshine Seaspray did but she's a bit of a smarty pants when it comes to that sort of thing).Anyway, at book three in our twenty two book Famous Five marathon, I'm not getting bored of the series yet.Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray.
Reviewed at: The Library of LightsSo, I’ve been making quite a long revisit to my childhood years and started to read Enid Blyton’s works again.
‘Five Run Away Together’ was an absolute favourite from my childhood years.
‘Five Run Away Together’ by Enid Blyton is an absolute escapism.
There’s plenty of heartwarming scenes in this book that I like.
If you don’t, you might wanna pick up a book in the ‘FIVE ISLAND ADVENTURE’ series, and escape to a wonderful world as you read along.Be forewarned, though.
Reading Enid Blyton’s ‘FIVE ISLAND ADVENTURE’ series will whet your appetite.
I don't think the Enid Blyton famous five books will ever stop being a firm favourite in our family.Recommended.
Eine tolle Folge mit der fiesen Familie Stock. Was mich aber sehr überraschte, (view spoiler)[die fünf Kinder und Timmy gingen für eine Woche auf die Felseninsel zurück?! Ein entführtes Kind gelangt nicht auf direktem Weg nach Hause zu den verstörten Eltern? Merkwürdig... (hide spoiler)] [06.10.2018]
As with all Famous Five books, this is of the same trusted and successful formula. I loved these books as a child and I am delighted that my girls loved them as children too.The stories are adventures of a byegone age, yet still hold the attention of children, around the world...... they have stood the test of time well - and for a great reason.The stories are plausible, fun, adventurous and contain an excellent mix of young characters... with a little bit of everyone in each of them - something that children have obviously known for decades.
Old favourite. Adventure, plenty of food, and a dash of mystery—what better way to relax than with an EB. I’d plain forgotten quite HOW horrid those Sticks were. Not everything is entirely PC but all good fun!
It's interesting how characters and storylines come rushing back when one rereads a favourite book. The Sticks were extremely annoying, no doubt. This is one of my favourite books in the series because though the villains are obvious, the crime isn't. And in the end, the Sticks do get what they deserve. Loved the book.
George’s mother is ill and her father goes to spend time with her, leaving the children in the ‘care’ of Mr and Mrs Stick, their whiny son, Edgar and their horrid dog, Stinker.
The Sticks soon show themselves to be devious and nasty, so the children decide to get away from them and go and spend a few weeks by themselves on Kirrin Island, where their adventures continue.There is very little that any of these children will have in common with primary school children in London, except perhaps a rather overbearing and sometimes angry male in the form of George’s father!There are a great number of stereotypes in these stories, and characterisation is simplistic.
It was meant to be.
At long last the unwanted thing happened.
I got swayed by the review of one user here and consequently I couldn't enjoy The Famous Five book for what it is.
Among the four kids, it was Julian's demeanor that spoiled the fun.
I immediately noticed how bossy and slightly mean he was.
It's the end of an era.
I may either take another Famous Five book on the rebound, or take a break from the series.
It's not the end of the world, and I'm not sad at all, but such a day, maybe, was bound to arrive.
What a thrilling, beautiful,light read! I disliked Anne for being such a baby sometimes, but it was she who put the pieces together!(view spoiler)[-Joanna has gone to her home town and Stick family has replaced her shortly.-The children wants to and live in the island for a few days.-Discovers Jennifer, a rich little girl is held in the dungeon of castle in island with the help of Sticks for ransom.-Jenny is rescued and parties with the children in the cave made like home in the island for a few days with the knowledge of her parents! (hide spoiler)]5 on 5!
THIS IS PRETTY MUCH ALL THAT I CAN THINK ABOUT!They got a loaf of new bread, some cold ham, a few tomatoes and a pot of jam. Anne found knives and forks and plates. Julian opened two bottles of ginger-beer.They had a fine breakfast of tongue, tinned peaches, bread and butter, golden syrup and ginger-beer.Anne had opened a tin of salmon, two tins of peaches, a tin of milk, cut some bread and butter, and made a big jug of cocoa.❤
Such fun to be with The Famous Five again, they REALLY ARE good old sticks!
Investigation series everyone should read
In this book, the Five are constantly looking for, preparing, eating and thinking about food.
Published in 1944, I gather it was somewhat influenced by the war-time rationing.
Not only do you get to dream about being on an exciting adventure, you get to dream about all the lovely food as well!
Oh well, different time and all that.The island gets to be even more awesome with the discovery of a very conveniently designed cave.
It's definitely the kind of island I'd want to own.
Although I'd spend more time exploring and mapping the dungeons!Anyway, the baddies get gotten and it's all rather fun and jolly.
Very cool, before reading this I was reading Blyton’s Adventure Series.
The Famous Five series is about cousins who go on many adventures and mysteries.
The book is obviously meant to be read to children 6-10 and read by the children themselves 7-10.
As you can see, the age range is much younger than the Adventure Series which is like 10-14.
If you’re trying to choose whether to choose this series or the Adventure Series, it depends on your age.
I recommend trying 1 book from each series and seeing what you like.
Still a great book and I will read more in this series in the future.
An adventure involving custom duties24 August 2012 I will have to say that I quite enjoyed this book, especially with the nice little twist at the end. Okay, when I was a pre-teen I pretty much read all of the Famous Five books (I have to watch out because I almost wrote that in German) and loved them. In fact I couldn't get enough of them and even jumped over to the Secret Seven when there were no more Famous Five books to read. However it just did not seem to be the same. Later on, there are c
An adventure involving custom duties24 August 2012	I will have to say that I quite enjoyed this book, especially with the nice little twist at the end.
Okay, when I was a pre-teen I pretty much read all of the Famous Five books (I have to watch out because I almost wrote that in German) and loved them.
As for the Sticks, one wonders why Uncle Quentin even consider such suspicious individuals.
There was one interesting review I read of this book, and that was when a seven year old girl asked her father about a custom duty.
Formulaic, yes. But enjoyable reading all the same.The ageless Famous Five are on school holidays again (how many years are these kids going to be at school?) and they head to Kirrin to stay with George and her parents. When George's mother falls ill, the children and Timmy the dog run away to Kirrin Island. But they're not the only ones on the island...
Although this book is a bit dated for my personal preferences, it did have a pretty good storyline in the end. Who has been on their island? What is in the hidden trunk? Who screamed?With someone roaming freely about their island, the famous five must find the culprits and the 'smugglers'.
... reading with my almost 10 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. This book was probably her favourite. We ate the last few chapters up.
Another journey back to my childhood in reading a Famous Five adventure. Although written many years ago this one doesn't feel especially dated and was still a fun read for me.
Кто упоролся? я упоролся!(читала по-русски, но русского издания в базе нет, а заводить лень)
Recordar um dos livros da minha infância. Adorei
Always a joy!
Buku ketiga dari seri Lima Sekawan ini kembali berlatar belakang musim panas, namun kali ini telah satu tahun berlalu semenjak anak-anak ini bertemu pertama kalinya di musim panas lalu dan mengalami petualangan seru di Pulau Kirrin.
Belum lagi petualngan-petualangan mereka yang selalu menakjubkan, hal ini pun membuat pembaca ikut hanyut dalam cerita yang sedang dibaca.Ada sebuah kesamaan dari tiga buku pertama Lima Sekawan ini, yaitu anak-anak ini selalu terlibat dengan suatu kejahatan yang melibatkan orang dewasa dan juga melibatkan kasus-kasus yang lumayan besar, baik dalam lingkupnya, maupun harta yang terlibat di dalamnya.
- FAMOUS FIVE 2012: CHILDHOOD REVISITED -Book three: Five Run Away TogetherAnd then it got serious.If memory serves, "Five Run Away Together" is the second book I got in the collection, and probably the second most read.
It marks the first moment when the adventures of the Famous Five moved away from being mere childhood games to actually dealing with more serious offenders, in a story that involves kidnap, poisoning, death threats, and evil spirits echoing prophetic words of caution inside the obscure, underground tunnels of a deserted island (granted, these "spirits" were actually four upper class kids suffering through the ennui of 11, but it's still a cool little detail).All this and more takes place on the usual background sets of Kirrin Cottage and Kirrin Island, but this time, in a much more exciting and truly 'adventurous' reading experience, full of revelations and plot twists, and well spiced with minor adversities and good humour.
In this one, Anne, Julian, Dick and George are surprised to find their Aunt Fanny is quite ill when they return for the holidays, and their loyal cook, Joanna, is also away!
A few days into the holiday, Aunt Fanny gets really ill, and Uncle Quintin takes her to the hospital and stays with her until she's better.The children, and Timmy the dog, soon find themselves at War with the Sticks and their horrible dog Stinker.
George decides to head for Kirrin Island to get away, and the others go with her.
Another quick read, but an enjoyable one.
In yet another triumph of the Kirrin Human Resources department, they hired the evil Mrs. Stick, with her horrid son Edgar in tow, and also her unpleasant dog Tinker (aka Stinker) and later her equally up to no good husband.Then Aunt Fanny, who is ill (of course), gets worse and has to be rushed off to hospital, with Quentin accompanying her (for once he puts the family crisis above his work).
How likely is it that the Sticks of all people were the ones doing their criminal activities on Kirrin Island?
