https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45108.Fool_s_Fate
I have several problems with it and yet I can’t help but love this book.Fool’s Fate is the conclusion to the Tawny Man trilogy and as far as I know, it is by far the most highly praised book among Hobb’s big fans.
Let’s just say that I’m delighted that Hobb decided to continue the series because I don’t think this is the perfect end for Fitz's story.As I mentioned several times already, I have a lot of problems with this book but I still love this.
Fitz has begun to have doubts which come from even stronger feelings of fear; he fears for the future, a future that may not correspond with the Fool’s crazy ideas.
A dragon lies between them, one Fitz has to slay and one the Fool wishes to save.
Fitz can’t realistically stop such an individual; he should stand by his friend always.Chade is guiding him on the opposite path; he wishes to extinguish the race because, well, they’re dangerous.
And Fitz is stuck in between the two men who have shaped his life.
Neither Fitz, the Fool or Chade were fully ready for what awaited them in the dragons lair.
Finally I am done crying (thanks to Ms. Kate Daniels) and now I can jot down my thoughts on this fantastic finale of Tawny Man.As I said in my earlier reviews, Hobb is getting better and better with every story.
A story that just put a spell on me and didn't let me go until I turned that last page.Story picked up right where Golden Fool ended and we see Fitz & Co. making arrangements to embark on the journey to kill the dragon.
Making a plan that would leave Fool in Six Duchies to prevent that fate that Fool has foreseen for himself.
I loved how she ended this book and the trilogy.
But then, once everyone got to Aslevjal, that idea collapsed and there was no way I was putting the book down until I realized it was one in the morning and the words were swimming before my eyes and I'd stubbornly read the same paragraph five times without comprehending any of it BUT OH MAN (view spoiler)[the poor Fool had just been chained to a memory stone dragon and sentenced to a slow death by forging so how could I just calmly go to sleep after that?!
Some of the changes in Fitz's character between the two series are made more clear, but I didn't have enough time to adapt to that revelation.
I think the change in both Hobb's abilities and the characters as they have grown and evolved as people and as elements in the world has been superb to watch.I have to say that I cannot even think of any way that this book could have been better.
That's not to say that this is a Martin book and everyone dies or anything like that, but there are some VERY emotional moments where I was sobbing my heart out (no joke, at least 20 times!) There were also so many moments of joy and happiness, redeeming moments and perfect, thought-provoking speech.Another thing which I adore about Hobb is that she is not afraid of addressing issues.
This book. Damn. This is one of the best books I've read in a long time! I haven't been this emotionally affected by a book in years. I cried so many times, which is rare for me. It was perfect. Seriously, reading all of Hobb's books is worth it just to get to this one. Perfect! Perfect! Perfect!
I know some people do, but I felt she was nothing special, and her frequent pout sessions where she would ignore Fitz drove me crazy.
Granted Fitz did hide a lot from her and wasn't exactly honest, something that drove me absolutely nuts about his character.
And it was awesome for a while seeing them together again, Burrich being one of my favorite characters.But Burrich knows that Molly has always loved Fitz and will choose him.
Then Hobb removes him from the picture so Fitz and Molly are finally clear to be together.No. Fucking.
My heart feels swollen looking back on the trajectories of these characters, and Hobb subtly weaves in so many broader ethical questions about the decisions that individual people make, and that humanity makes as a whole.
She also plays with the advantages and limits of first-person narration in a way that’s so much fun for anyone who enjoys thinking about how stories are constructed.
If you need more convincing I’ll be doing a spoiler-free video overview soon on three of Hobb’s trilogies, but for now I’ll say that Fitz’s story is phenomenal and I’ve loved every hour I’ve spent in his world.
"In that last dance of chancesWhen I know you'll not be mineI will let you go with longingAnd the hope that you'll be fine" WHAT TO SAY WHAT TO FEEL WHAT THE EFF DID THIS STUPID BOOK DO TO ME?!Started out great! actually started out not-so-great with sailing on ships and Thick getting seasick for like 400 pages, but I was still living for it because it's Robin Hobb and I'm a dedicated fan and it's Fitz and it's the Fool and it's going to chatter my brain completely and it did and my feels were
actually started out not-so-great with sailing on ships and Thick getting seasick for like 400 pages, but I was still living for it because it's Robin Hobb and I'm a dedicated fan and it's Fitz and it's the Fool and it's going to chatter my brain completely and it did and my feels were all over the place...
The interaction between Fitz and the Fool was always a delight to read, ALWAYS *full force shipping*.Not to mention that no one can beat Robin Hobb when it comes to prose, the lady is boss and no one can change my mind -not even the drunken verbal diarrhea I had in the first half of this review-, I probably highlighted half the book.
Este tercer volumen en ese aspecto es tremendo y maravilloso, ¿será Hobb una habilidosa mañosa?Por otra parte, esta trilogía vuelve a estar narrada, al igual que El Vatídico, por Traspié, pero es tanto continuación de esa primera como de Las Leyes del Mar. Al fin conocemos cuál era la magia detrás de la forja, quiénes son realmente los habitantes de la Isla de los Otros, tenemos noticias de Althea, de Selden Vestrit, conoceremos el destino del Bufón...Os empeñáis en adaptar el mundo a vuestro antojo.
If you go back there after the people are gone, then all you can see is what is not there any more.»Puedo decir con total seguridad que este libro es el mejor de Robin Hobb que he leído.
For you gave it away ere ever you saw me.»No sé qué están esperando para leer a Hobb los que todavía no lo hicieron.
No muchos escritores son capaces de romper un corazón y luego enmendarlo dejando la suficiente cantidad de fisuras para que luchemos en nuestras mentes por algo mejor.
Pero por ahora voy a saborear la vida que me fue devuelta con este cierre de The Tawny Man.
Things picked up a lot from the second book in this trilogy, and this conclusion to the Tawny Man series became highly entertaining and compelling. I loved how things developed for Fitz and obviously, I loved the conclusion as well. Right now, I'm actually tempted to continue reading about him in Hobb's 5th series that takes place in this world, but for now I will just enjoy what I've already read of him because it was really good :)
For me, the love of a book comes from the sum of it's parts.
Had it not been for the ending in this final chapter of the Farseer world...I would have given Fool's Fate five stars.
However, I was sorely disappointed (possibly depressed) with how the story closed between Fitz and Beloved.
Had she not made the relationship between Fitz and the Fool so powerful and moving - I might have been less horrified to see him cast aside so frivolously.
The final chapters with Molly felt empty and dull in comparison.
I would normally cringe at a series that lasts beyond 3-4 books...but this would be the rare exception.
The Rain Wild Chronicles awaits me next and then The Fitz and The Fool trilogy.
I've loved every minute of seeing Fitz grow into the man he is.
He has gone through Fitz's multiple deaths, bringing him back to life to use him as Catalyst.
I think In the end he just wanted peace for Fitz, even in death.
Fitz and the Fool's argument in the second book of the trilogy cost him dearly.
Once Fitz brings him back to life he is living past his time line.
Man, even though it will never happen I will always ship Fitz and the Fool.

I'm loving Robin Hobb's stories. Her writing is excellent. I think I might try to finish all her books by this years end. I recommend Robin Hobb to everyone.
How could I give you anything less than what you deserve? And if it’s something you already deserve – is it really mine to give? :DThis was a perfect ending.   “Ah, Beloved. Of all the things I must bid farewell to, you are the most difficult to lose. Forgive me that I have avoided you. Better, perhaps, that we make a space between us and become accustomed to it before fate forces that upon us.”
Bitter sweetness or sweet bitterness...Epic.  I was absolutely crazy when I finished the final, 6th book about The Fool and the Assasin, I couldn`t read, couldn`t sleep, concentrate or communicate with people - I got lost in the thoughts and emotions after absorbing this Story. The funny thing is that currently I spend my summer vacations out of town and without any internet. But after I finished the last pages and the understanding that THIS is the end, no more Fool and Fitz relationship for y
And I went to town to buy 3G modem and forgot about the promise given to myself - no computer on vacations!))) I sooo want to share what I felt with fellow-readers)I think I am very lucky to read the Farseer and the Tawny man trilogies as a whole, at once, when all the books were already completed, because if I got a taste of the Fool`s inner world, which he reviels piece by piece during the narration, and collected all the quotes about his attitude towards Fitz and his feelings like precious gems, and had to wait for the final book to come out and THEN got 
A good and satisfying ending to what has become my favourite Hobb trilogy.
But I think even many of those critics would appreciate the end of this series.Like the last book of the Farseer Trilogy, this book brings us to a dragon-centric quest.
So much so that I have to think about how I feel about Hobbs recent announcement of a new Fitz and Fool trilogy in the making.
Part of me leaps up at the thought of more stories from our dynamic duo – but part of me is happy to let things lie as they are – because I suspect more Fitz and Fool equals more pain, more suffering, more loss.
Overall impression is one big disappointment.The whole trilogy left a feeling of the bloated fourth volume of The Farseer Trilogy where all loose ends are being tied up.
Let alone vast life experience that affected both of them.Fool...my personal disappointment here.
I hoped that Fitz is going to realise that Fool is a woman and They Live Happily Ever After with a sense of wonder about each other and respect and exciting life...On top of this the usual numerous repetitions of what happened only a hundred pages before.The Tawny Man trilogy is a let down.Hobb was at the top 5 of my favourite writers since 2002, it is very sad to lose her now.
The food wasn't really good either, but luckily I found an abandoned honey jar on the way.As always, I was in magnificent company though: Fitz is still my favourite, and I feel it important to note that he’s finally growing up and accepting some the responsibilities he refused to take for so long.
(I am consciously leaving Chade and the Fool out here – both of them rubbed me the wrong way this trip!)To be honest though, I think this was probably the least of our travels in this world so far.
But now, I’m on my way home and I’m bringing a dragon head with me.
Fool's Fate has one of the most satisfying endings I've read in a long time.
After 6 books of Hobb physically and emotionally torturing FitzChivalry, I was very surprised to see an ending like this.
When I realized that a big portion of the book was Fitz sailing on a ship, I thought the book was going to bog down and I would have to force myself to pick it up.
I will be leaving the Fitz alone for a few months, because I am afraid of what Robin Hobb has in store for him next.
It's going to be hard for any book/series for the rest of the year to top the experience I had with the Tawny Man trilogy.
I'm now the same age as Fitz during the Tawny Man trilogy, and I think that helped the books resonate with me as an adult.
I don't think I would have been able to connect with his challenges as a father (in several capacities) if I'd read the book in my 20s.Fitz's growing relationship with the Fool is perfect.
This is doubly effective since Fitz is a heterosexual man who has to navigate the Fool's labyrinthine feelings (romantic and otherwise) for him.
What I've come to expect from a Robin Hobb book. That is, it has about twice as many pages as the plot should support, but that's alright. Because the remaining text is filled with essential character development, which is Hobb's greatest strength as a writer. So in that sense, it's a typical book from her. But on the other hand, it's very much its own story, or sub-story of the greater tale of FitzChivalry Farseer.I won't really comment much on how it wraps up this trilogy, for fear of spoilers, but I will say that it fit.
While the book does drag along at times, it was such fun to go to the OutIslands. I have a soft spot for matriarchal cultures so found that particularly fun and interesting. The pacing wasn't always exactly to my liking, but the story was compelling enough to get me through those bits that felt a bit long. I've come to so love these characters and the end had my teary eyed more than once. Looking forward to the last trilogy in the series next!
Realms of the Elderlings , third series done and it’s getting better and better. This last part from Tawny Man was incredible and the sun has risen, at last, on Fitz’ street. After around seven thousand pages I was finally rewarded! I felt that a stone lifted from my heart – that’s how good Robin Hobb writes.But all these stories are not only about Fitz, the Fool, dragons and scheming. It goes deeper: it shows the human inner nature, one’ struggle with his thoughts and feelings, what it takes t
It goes deeper: it shows the human inner nature, one’ struggle with his thoughts and feelings, what it takes to make decisions and live with the consequences and what friendship and love truly means.And I didn’t mention before the love for animals which is present in her stories.
You can feel her deep respect for nature and its creatures.
“No wolf wastes time on vengeance, and that is what this is.
Vengeance, pure and simple.
It is savagery that only humans can muster.
When you see me loyal to my family, then you see the wolf.”
I think the last line of Fool's Fate sums up my feelings for the book and the trilogy perfectly. I am content.Technically I know I should go onto the Rainwild Traders next but there is a certain other Hobb book that is screaming out to me to read me first - Fool's Assassin. And for the first time I will be basically reading her new book 'live' rather than years after the original release. Can't wait to swim in uncharted waters.
Recommendation: Buy this book(series) and make it top priority.Fool’s Fate by Robin Hobb is the culmination of the Tawny Man Trilogy, a trilogy that got better with each book, and ended spectacularly with a lot of feeling.
This is an epic fantasy series that focuses on characterization and inter-personal relationships with a character that has many secrets from those individual relationships.Talking about the plot of this book would be a large spoiler for what happened in the previous books so I am going to be vague.
Why this book and this series is so enjoyable is because we see the unraveling of all these secrets that Fitz holds from about a dozen other characters.
I think, in terms of writing, Liveship Traders is still my favourite, but the characters in Farseer and Tawny Man are just so, so dear to me.
And bad things do happen in this book, some of them so horrific that it hurt to read.
While there are familiar characters in this series (for those who have read the Farseer and Liveship Traders trilogies, at least), there are lots of great new ones as well.
(Note: If you're new to reading Hobb's books, I would start with the Farseer trilogy, then Liveship Traders, then Tawny Man!)~~~~~Review also posted here.
Actual Rating: 4.75I took off .25 stars because (view spoiler)[the Fool left Fitz 😩😭 (hide spoiler)]Buddy Read
