https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141624.Napoleon_s_Buttons
The seventeen molecules:1.
Ascorbic Acid3.
Nitro Compounds6.
Oleic Acid15.
Chlorocarbon Compounds17.
Molecules versus MalariaNow, I happened to (mostly) enjoy my time spent in the trenches of orgo, so I'm looking forward to reading this book.
There's often been too much separation between hard science and 'real life', as it were, and this book blends the two beautifully in illustrating chemistry's role in historical happenings.
This book breathes life into these molecules, integrates them into a bigger picture in a way I found extremely pleasing.
My only wish is that there were more than seventeen molecules covered.
If you like Organic chemistry like i do, have a short attention span like i do, and have a passing interest in the economic, political, and cultural histories of textiles, dyes, and pharmaceuticals - you too may enjoy this nicely written non fiction work
This book would fit well in an introduction to chemistry class.
I'd recommend it for teenagers who want to learn some chemistry before taking a class in high school.
Ships were manned above capacity to take into account the loss of sailors to scurvy.
The sailors wanted meat.
Better to have C at different times of day.
He didn't see it as any different than any other way of dying in war.
Whole villages hid from the Belgians who wanted them to harvest rubber.
The Phoenicians needed some 9,000 shellfish to produce one gram of Tyrian purple.
Of course, each chapter may veer off, depending upon the story behind the chemical's evolution.Overall, the authors look at how the creation/discovery/need of each chemical affected the world: "...tell[ing] the stories of the fascinating connections between chemical structures and historical episodes."The effect of tin on Roman expansion and the defeat of Napoleon's soldiers.
Consider the reasons why Columbus sailed the ocean blue in search of a faster route for spices; and, the authors provide a variety of reasons why nutmeg and pepper was so highly valued.
Did the Russians defeat Napoleon because the French army's tin buttons decomposed in the cold Russian winter? It's hard to fight when you're having to hold your pants up and your coats closed.
Unfortunately, it was a huge disappointment for me.Let me start by saying that this book is NOT the story of how 17 molecules changed history.
Besides the fact that a large portion of the chapter is devoted to topics such as "Sweet Chemistry" (which necessarily involves molecules besides glucose,) it only took the authors two paragraphs to start discussing sucrose.
Among other things, they go on to discuss the slave-supported sugar industry (which would have been the sugar called sucrose) and how that industry changed the world.
When they'd mention a bunch of scientific shit that I have no clue about and really get into it with it all the while I cannot follow, and I eventually have to turn to Google to tell me what's what and whatnot.Also, me being me, I was searching a bunch of historical moments mentioned and well, even though it would left me amazed if something happened because of something simple based on science back in the days (like Napoleon losing the war because of loose buttons on every soldier for example) well, yeah..
If you need more, the authors provided pages of their "selected bibliography" at the back of the book.I found it an entertaining and thought-provoking look at chemical compounds and the roles they played in historical events; e.g., the O-ring failure on the NASA space shuttle and some other unintended consequences relating to the chemical properties of materials.Some might be put off because the title story is only about 2 pages of the intro and because it comes with the authors' admission that the theory of Napoleon's buttons being his army's downfall is of doubtful authenticity.
This books takes a somewhat disjointed ride through how seventeen loosely defined classes of molecules changed world history.I was intrigued by the book's premise - not to describe the history of chemistry, but rather to reveal the chemistry of history.
The book does an admirable job of assembling anecdotes of interesting molecules that have affected our world.
Unfortunately, the structure of the book is a bit disjointed, the tone is uneven, and the numerous stories could use either some additional background or some helpful editing.
Ascorbic Acid (preventing scurvy)3.
Nitro Compounds (explosives, Roger Bacon/gunpowder, Alfred Nobel, Fritz Haber)6.
Chlorocarbon Compounds (refrigeration, CFCs, pesticides, anesthesia)17.
The title of this book may put some readers off but for those that like looking at history as more than just a bunch of dates and dead people, it is a fascinating read.The title comes from speculation that the tin buttons used by the French army may have decomposed as result from exposure to bitter cold during the Invasion of Russia.
By looking other similar events and developements, the author demonstrates and speculates on how some basic chemicals and chemisty have or may have altered history.It is not a chemistry book, but some knowledge of chemistry is helpful But even without that knowledge (and I am not a chemist other than chemistry that involves ethyl alcohol), the reader can understand why certain compounds, chemicals, and elements enfluenced events through time.I found it very interesting and even entertaining.
It is about scientific discovery of molecules, the search to synthesize, and the properties that make certain substances extremely valuable and useful.Thus, for example, the probing and understanding the value of absorbic acid (vitamin C) and how it works on the human body.
Its discovery and value stemmed from the debilitating and deadly presence of scurvy - the nemesis of sailors - and its use removed one of the challenges of exploration.
Napolean's army lost reliable winter wear during the march into Russia during 1812, because buttons for overcoats were made from tin.
Tin degrades in cold weather ...
"Napoleon's Buttons" had the potential to be a most interesting book, covering discoveries of new materials, chemicals, and medicines over the past several hundred years.
Unfortunately for me, the verbal descriptions of the chemical compounds, and detailing how the carbon, oxygen, hydrogen atoms are bonded to each other was hard to visualize, and my mind quickly drifted.
However, on the positive side, I found that by listening to the book as I went to bed ended up being an excellent way to fall asleep.
Therefore, unless you have a true passion for chemistry, I found this book would be welcomed by insomniacs, but few others.
Which could be why I liked this so much; somehow it was presented in a way that was just right for me.I had assumed that I was going to sail through life interested but forever dumb in regards to chemistry.
Basically, I would be restricted to reading biographies about chemists and what they did, never really grasping any of it.
So this was the first time it felt like anything I have read about chemistry 'clicked.' Granted, it took me a loooong while of staring at super-simple diagrams to finally see what was being explained, but, hey: I finally saw what was being explained!
This book is an unusual take on history.
You don't have to be a scientist to enjoy it -- but it helps if you are a little bit interested in chemistry, too.
The title is illustrative: We all know that thousands of Napoleon's men died on the long march back from a Russian defeat in winter.
But did you know that the army's uniforms had buttons made of tin?
Tin crumbles like an old cookie when the temperature falls below a certain point.
So Napoleon's men could not keep their coats buttoned and froze to death faster.
A molecule was instrumental in the death toll.
Mình có cảm giác mình vớ đúng cuốn sách viết để cho mình đọc. Đúng là chủ đề của mình. Giống như là hai tác giả biết mình đang cần cái gì, đang cần gãi chỗ nào, và chiều lòng mình hết mực.Kiểu như này:- Biết New York từng là New Amsterdam không?- Ờ ừm.- Biết vì sao New Amsterdam bị đổi tên thành New York không?- ???- Vì isoeugenol.
If you like James Burke's show Connections (on BBC), you will love this book. Lots of molecular diagrams throughout the book, enough to make any chemistry enthusiasts giddy.
The book connects the micro (chemistry) to the macro (history).
But neither is it an exaggeration to say that chemical structures have played an essential and often unrecognized role in the development of civilization.
When a chemist determines the structure of a different natural product or synthesizes a new compound, the effect of a small chemical change–a double bond moves here, an oxygen atom substituted there, an alteration to a side group–often seems of little consequence.
AmblesideOnline year 8 book.
The stories in it are very interesting and the chemistry is quite thorough for something that isn’t a chemistry book.
I’m glad that I’ve read it once and I will probably still pre-read in another year when Kessa gets to it.
It could be a “light” read if you skim all the chemistry talk and just read the stories but if you really read it all and try to understand it it took a decent amount of brain power (at least for me.
I had one chemistry class in high school and one in college).
Two small things stood out from the historical perspective that occasionally made me put the book down and walk away for awhile: first, the authors regularly made unsupported hypotheses about how theoretical changes would have had a defined major, world-altering effect on history (a change may have occurred, but no one could specifically predict what); and second, there seems to be a critical misunderstanding of what the term "life-expectancy" means to a historian (it does NOT mean that the majority of the population were expected to die at a particular age, but is an average that can be highly skewed by childhood mortalities, war, etc.).
I had known about this book for some time but simply did not believe that a couple of organic chemists could possibly write a captivating history.
It is absolutely a book on history, not chemistry and all their geeky stuff simply breaks down the thesis that a tiny difference in the bond between two molecules could have massive impact on the entire planet.
Had tin, which made up the buttons of Napoleon’s fearsome army, not crumbled to dust at low temperatures, soldiers may not have frozen to death during the Russian winter and France may have come to dominate the universe instead of England.
I know I’m praying to the gods of tin now.
I teach high school biology and physical science.
Seriously, this book will shape my teaching.
Honestly never took time to think of how items like silk, a basic and simple protein, shaped the world.
A very cool read for the science-minded.
The book constantly dives into the chemical structures of compounds and how this helps their success in our world.
The sugar molecules glucose, fructose, and galactose each "fit" to a chemical receptor in our sweet taste buds.
However, ethylene glycol, which is found in anti-freeze, contains a similar structure and would also make it taste sweet).
Davvero un libro ben scritto, fruibile (seppur in maniera diversa) sia dagli addetti ai lavori sia da chi invece volesse farsi una lettura scientifica simpatica diversa dal classico libro di divulgazione. Gli aspetti chimici sono legati molto bene con gli aspetti storici e la rappresentazione grafica delle molecole trovo che sia un’ottima idea soprattutto per chi non mastica molta chimica. Ho apprezzato molto il fatto che nonostante il libro fosse diviso in capitoli associati a specifici cluster di molecole, la trama complessiva fosse molto organica e non mancassero diversi fili rossi fra i diversi capitoli.
Some hit and miss with this book.
I really enjoyed the background histories of these elements.
Where is short in my opinion is in the science part.
I picked up this book thinking it would talk a lot more of organic chemistry and going deeper than what was usually written for us the casual reader.
I would like to learn more without I'm having to go back to college for it.
At glanced it was very promising but in the end it just fell short.
Three stars on this aspect.
Three stars on this aspect.
With all that, I think this book still deserve four stars rating.
Fantástico. Não achei o livro de química mais completo, este título é do Disapearing Spoon, mas achei o mais legal. Cheio de idéias e relações entre diferentes assuntos, e com certeza interessante para todo tipo de leitor. Se tivesse que escolher um livro de divulgação que misture química e história, de longe este seria a primeira escolha.
Although there are interesting nuggets, there wasn't much new here for a veteran of microhistories. I did learn that dogs, unlike humans, do not need to get their vitamin C through their diet but synthesize it from other products. Alas, we lack the enzyme.
This is definitely an informative read, both for those who are knowledgeable about chemistry and medicine and for those who are not. I found some of their chemical explanations disappointing--but only because I have a basic knowledge that most readers wouldn't and I was hoping for more.
Actually I thought quite interesting - the history of spices, rubber, the birth control pill, nyclon and hopw they changed society.
Pretty interesting book. All chapters had something new and interesting in them. Even if some of the molecules/history is something I already knew about. Very well written overall.
Автор взял для названия своей книги довольно интересную теорию (пусть даже не подтвержденную и вообще смахивающую на байку) о том, что в проигрыше Наполеона в России виноваты пуговицы.
Вот про небольшую часть подобных веществ можно узнать из этой книги.
Подобных взаимосвязей двух таких непохожих наук как химия и история в книге приводится куда больше, чем можно было ожидать.
Но, это можно простить – все-таки, эта книге не только про историю, но и про химию.
Да, иногда придется разбираться в том, что автор хотел сказать формулами, но даже это написано вполне понятно.
Napoleon’s Buttons is a great example of a 'trivia book'. This is a book where you learn lots of interesting facts, but just tidbits of information. So, great to impress friends and relatives at a dinner table… and that’s it. This books mixes History and Chemistry (mostly Organic Chemistry), picking up substances precious to mankind, describing both the historical relevance associated with the “stuff”, and its chemical structure. It is advisable to have at least some basic knowledge in both dis
Napoleon’s Buttons is a great example of a 'trivia book'.
This is a book where you learn lots of interesting facts, but just tidbits of information.
The molecules described in the book were in fact, more important than tin buttons.
Then rich countries from Europe found a way to steal the stuff, and became even richer, until some scientist was able to synthesize the molecule (usually in the 19th century), and then it became cheap and available to everyone.
Yet, I learned lots of “cool stuff” in the book, as I’ve mentioned.
