https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53496.Walk_Two_Moons
It has all the elements I grew up loving: wacky names like Salamanca Tree Hiddle and Phoebe Winterbottom, American Indian themes, lush descriptions of country living, spiritual undertones, a little mystery, a little romance, and a missing mother.The missing mother thing was the suckerpunch, of course.
It's why I found myself lying in the bathtub in the middle of a Monday afternoon, blubbering my head off during the book's unexpected climactic twist.
I related so completely to Salamanca's hidden longing, her concealed desperation for her mother to return.
It triggered so many memories, and spurred me to wonder, What were those first days like after my mom left?
Creech drew on her own background for many of the book's themes and images, including Sal's love of nature, her relationship with her mother, and the road trip to Idaho that frames the narrative.
هنوز هم خواندنِ «با کفش‌های دیگران راه برو» لذت‌بخش است، و چراغ‌هایی را توی دل و ذهن روشن می‌کند، تا بتوانیم بهتر زندگی کنیم، و دیگران را بیش‌تر دوست داشته باشیم، به‌ ویژه مادرها را.
Sometimes reading along with a partner helps lessen the dread...sometimes it doesn't.
My son did not enjoy this book much at all and I can't really say it was a favorite of mine either.
But, I stayed positive throughout the reading experience though because I think Walk Two Moons has some important messages to offer young readers.
My favorite quote:“It seems to me that we can’t explain all the truly awful things in the world like war and murder and brain tumors, and we can’t fix these things, so we look at the frightening things that are closer to us and we magnify them until they burst open.
This book is the perfect example of how a book can be written for a younger audience, but still hold entertainment and meaning for adult readers.
I really, thoroughly enjoyed this book.
It was suspenseful without being (too) contrived or corny.
I thought the author did an excellent job portraying the mindset of middle school-age children, especially in that they didn't all think and act the same, or have the same maturity level.
Also, I don't know if other older readers found the ending predictable, but I was genuinely surprised, and even got a little choked up.
Overall, a great read for any age.
I went into the read cold, knowing only what was written on the back of the book and the fact that it was a Newberry winner.The basic idea of the story is a teenage girl (Sal) is traveling cross country with her grandparents to try and find her mother.
At the same time, I could appreciate and sympathize with her plight and her desire to come to grips with her life.I really liked the way this book played with self exploration through storytelling and narrative.
Huzzah! Huzzah! Brilliant, unexpected twists and relationships with a beautifully sad ending!
I shan't dignify this flaming turd with a review save the following: this is the worst young adult book I have ever encountered, and I have encountered my share. The dialogue thinks it is being playful, and it is actually being wooden; the story thinks it is being original, and it is predictable. The characters are more annoying than endearing for their idiosyncrasies. If it wasn't for the fact that I get resale when I sell books back to the university bookstore, I'd've peed on it and burned it immediately after finishing it.—have I made my point yet? Avoid it.
كتابي به لطافت نسيم بهاري، مثل صداي رود، مثل طعم توت سياه...
The characters are caring and endearing as they interact with others while dealing with mistakes they make and losses they suffer.The book contains so many delightful quotes such as:"I prayed to trees.
This was easier than praying directly to God. There was nearly always a tree nearby.""Don't judge a man until you've walked two moons in his moccasins.""We have to go on with things.
We can't malinger.""You can't keep the birds of sadness from flying over your head, but you can keep them from nesting in your hair."WALK TWO MOONS is one of my all-time favorites.
Soon after, Sal’s grandparents take her on a road trip to all the places her mother has sent postcards from since she left.
In Walk Two Moons, forgiveness is a hard and long process, because Sal has to go on a road trip with her grandparents, she has to get along with her dads girlfriend, and she has to admit her mom is gone for real.
She still thought that her mom didn’t leave them for real, and wasn’t gone from the world.Forgiveness is hard for Sal because she has to give up the fact that her mom is gone.
What I didn't like:The characters were not likable to me, especially Phoebe, the main character's friend, which I found very annoying.
I found this book in the MG section of the library, but it had a YA feel to it, with heavy themes such as a mother leaving her family, death, betrayal, and the mention of Grandma running away with the milkman for three days because Grandpa was swearing too much.
Sal doesn't understand why her mother left her, and why she doesn't come back.
Sal and her new friends think there is something very sinister going on in this seemingly normal neighborhood.
Soon after the move, Sal takes a road trip with her grandparents to visit her mother, and on the way tells them the story of her friend Phoebe, a young woman whose mother also left her family.
The stories of Sal and Phoebe are intertwined in a creative way throughout this book, and students can learn a lot about plot, narrative structure, foreshadowing, and themes like love, friendship, and family.
This is a children's book. While I enjoyed the story and thought it was well written for the age group intended, I'm not entirely sure kids would like this story. It is sad, which is all fine, but it addresses some adult issues that many kids wouldn't relate to. My older children read this in elementary school, and it didn't grab them....maybe because they were boys, or maybe it was just over their heads..... I'm not exactly sure. But still 4 stars for me, as an adult.
See Kris's review for all the good.This book was sweet and uniquely paced. I get why it is/was a Sonlight read. For some reason, though, I didn't really connect with it. I think I was in the wrong mood.
when I read this grade 6-ish I was obsessed. don’t really remember much except that they used the word lunatic a lot, a girl is on a road trip with her grandparents and on the way they have an encounter with a snake (view spoiler)[ also a girl thinks that her mom is having an affair, except the guy she keeps meeting is her son/ the girls brother (hide spoiler)] PLOT TWIST! And I think there’s a woodpecker song thing that is still stuck in my head after all these years Sharon Creech was my girlll
when I read this grade 6-ish I was obsessed. don’t really remember much except that they used the word lunatic a lot, a girl is on a road trip with her grandparents and on the way they have an encounter with a snake (view spoiler)[ also a girl thinks that her mom is having an affair, except the guy she keeps meeting is her son/ the girls brother  (hide spoiler)] PLOT TWIST! And I think there’s a woodpecker song thing that is still stuck in my head after all these years Sharon Creech was my girlllll in elementary school honestly
I loved it just as much as I remember loving it when I was 12. SO good. Quirky, poignant, hopeful, and warm. Filled with big hearted characters (Gramps and Gram are OTP), humor, and some serious heartbreak, too. It so beautifully portrays a young girl's journey growing up, growing wiser, and learning to accept the past and hope for the future. I absolutely loved it. Also, it's a roadtrip story - who doesn't love a roadtrip story?
This was a delightful read with even more delightful characters. The story line was engaging, the characters were perfectly flawed, and the ending offered closure without confusion or making up your mind for you. It was a quick read, completely worthy of the Newberry Medal and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good summer read.
It's something that I kept recommending even as an adult, but obviously tastes change over the years and I wondered if this book still held its weight and significance in my life even as an adult so when the mood struck me one day to finally start my re-read, I knew it was time.Thankfully, I had nothing to fear.
It's even more heartbreaking reading it all over again -- not only because I already knew the outcome, but because I just was better able to comprehend exactly how complicated Sal's mother's life was and how you don't really understand things like that to their fullest extent when you're only twelve.
Thirteen-year-old Salamanca Tree Hiddle is driving across the country to Lewiston, Idaho with her grandparents on a journey to find her mother, who left the past year.
As they journey, she tells her grandparents the story of her friend, Phoebe, who she met when her father made them move away from their farm after her mother left.
Phoebe's story is a sad and mysterious one, and as Salamanca weaves her tale, the gaps are filled in on her own story, and about her mother.
I loved it, and I especially loved all the characters, from her grandparents, to her quirky friends.
A truly excellent book. Unfortunately we were reading it aloud to youngest son and weren't prepared for the somewhat surprize ending which was very hard on him. Probably not for the youngest readers. Otherwise the story is well written, well paced, we were instantly drawn in to it, extremely likeable characters (except maybe the English teacher). It ends well, just was hard as I said.
Creech's books offer her and her readers the chance to live in a world of hope and beauty.Salamanca Tree Hiddle is taking a trip with her grandparents from Euclid, Ohio to Lewiston, Idaho, to visit her mother's final resting place.
For example, she writes in her journal about her mother's tree kissing, a tree in the parking lot in South Dakota reminds her of the singing tree in her backyard, and Phoebe's family triggers her memory of the morning her father left flowers on the table for Sal and her mother.
This felt very messy and I'm not sure what the plot was - I was a little bored by it and the dialogue seemed unrealistic and very systematic.
They may be written at a kid/young-adult reading level and they may have teen main characters, but they are not books that kids like.
Growing up, I don't think there was ever a Newbery book that I liked or related to.
However, reading this book as an adult, I thoroughly enjoyed it.Every once in a while, you find an author that is truly gifted with word choice and the art of story-telling.
Not a book I would ever recommend to a teenager or anyone who likes action or drama.
SWBSTSalamanca Tree Hiddle's mother has left and never came back.
On a quest to go find her mother with her Grandpa and Grandma, Sal tells them about Pheobe.
All of a sudden, Pheobe's mother, Mrs. Winterbottom, left and didn't come back.
All Pheobe wants to do is to find out what happened and who took her mother, but she's left with no clues.
So, Pheobe and Salamanca investigate and find out what really happened, and Mrs. Cadaver had nothing to do with it.
Then, Pheobe's mother appears out of nowhere and starts telling the whole family what really happened.
My book is called Walk Two Moons.
This book is a touching book about a girl who spends all summer with her grand parents with a wish to be united with her mother and she traveled the country to go see her loving mother.
She talks a long hard journey through several states and hits a few bumps along the way but her grand mother and grand father support her through the journey..
They have a fun and crazy adventure and i think you should take it with them!!
This was such a poignant, well-written little story. It's a short, easy read and the voice feels very authentic. This a great portrayal of loss, confusion, and just general growing up. I would absolutely recommend this to any child, particularly one experiencing the loss of a close family member.(Yes, I did read it two days in a row, that's not a glitch haha. I liked it so much, I listened to it with a family member the next day so they could hear it, too).
Don’t judge a man, until you walk two moons in his moccasinsتقریبا تمام کتاب در جمله بالا خلاصه شده استداستان در مورد دختر سیزده ساله ای که از محل سکونت اش در یک مزرعه به اجبار پدر به شهر کوچکی میرهو...دائما در تمام داستان به ما جمله بالا یادآوری میشه که خیلی ساده دست به قضاوت دیگران نزنیم چراکه ممکن است ما در آن شرایط اقدام به مراتب بدتری انجام بدیم و از بیرون درک اون شرایط رو نداریمرمان به خصوص برای سنین نوجوان خیلی آموزنده است اما به نظرم برای این سنین تلخ آمد
But in the course of their road trip (which takes some hilarious turns), she begins to tell them the story of her best friend, Phoebe, whose mother suddenly disappeared one day.
If looked at for the words only, this book could come across as a sad story, one of loss and grief.
I loved how Sal and Phoebe's teacher showed how children their age could show acceptance for another person even if there were things they didn't like about them.
I was moved by this story and hope that my granddaughters will feel the same.
In addition, the pre-teenage characters' dialogue sounds as if it came out of 1950's-era Tennesse (for example, using the word "thumping" as an adjective), and by about Chapter 20, the story started to sound like a bad Lifetime movie (as if any of them are anything but bad).My least favorite character is the insufferable Phoebe Winterbottom, a 13-year-old girl who is ridiculously obsessed with cholesterol and caloric intake and who has obviously never heard of a little thing called "common courtesy".The ending of the novel was quite depressing, with a confusing and unexplainable move used by the author that I believe is completely unacceptable in terms of writing.How Walk Two Moons won a Newberry Award (or even managed to qualify), I cannot fathom, even in the deepest reaches of my mind; the only reason I read it is because it was required reading for my seventh grade English class.
Sal is an only child, living with her single dad.
After a few days, her dad determined that she wasn't going to return.
So when her best friend's Phoebe's own mother vanishes (she left a letter saying she needs a few days to sort some things out) Sal warns her ''She might not come back.'' But Phoebe insists that her mom wouldn't leave her, that she must have been abducted.
And hence begins both girls investigation as Phoebe tries to figure out if certain notes can lead to her mom, and Sal tries to make peace with the incident that made her mom go away.
