https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/369995.Black_Cross
9/10This is my first Greg Iles book but it proved to be such a riveting read I can comfortably say that I will be picking up all of his work in the future.
The difference here was there were large portions of this book were set inside a fictitious concentration camp in Germany which gave a perspective from those trapped, those who run it and those who test on subjects and the people caught in a rock and a hard place assisting the testers.
It's pretty grim reading at times but you see the word concentration camp you don't thing rainbows and unicorns.
. ACh is very exciting stuff...no, I'm serious, it binds to its little receptors (on muscle fibers in this case) and opens the gate for sodium, and there's an action potential, and your muscles contract etc.
† (who, like Schrader, was employed at IG Farben) was soon overseeing the production and stockpiling of poisonous gases which (you guessed it) were, of course, tested on the Nazi equivalent of vermin — concentration camp inmates.Book?
It's a good book, but, like I said, I'm probably more of a non-fiction girl myself.
The story started just right and moved fast enough to keep me reading an engaged, but slow enough for me to really learn to like Jonas Stern and Mike McConnell, and fall in love with the Anna Cass.
Though difficult to think about, the scenes are not graphic or gratuitous in any way, save to further this wonderful story.
Still, if you are sensitive to such things, violence delivered on women and children, as well as men, that is much worse than a simple beating or gunshot wound, take care when reading this book.
McConnell is a pacifist, and agrees to work only on defensive weapons, but the issue has become immediate as Churchill and the allies believe that Hitler is about to deploy a deadlier version than Sarin called Soman, another clear toxic agent that short circuits the central nervous system to block any allied landing in France.
McConnell’s problem is that his father had been a victim of poison gas during World War I and he witnessed the physical and mental scars throughout his childhood.The allied plan is designed to warn the Nazis that they have their own supply of Sarin and Soman by destroying Totenhausen, a Nazi camp that conducts medical experiments to develop these toxic gases.
The book is based during WWII at one of Germany's camps where different gases were tested.
The book is a snap shot of England and America and their reaction to the rumor that Germany has perfected a gas for warfare.
The allies send their brave men into the fray in order to save the day for the victims in the camp and the world at large.
Don't miss this book if you like to read about heros managing to save the day by the seat of their pants strictly with the fire in their hearts and the strength of their conviction that failure wasn't an option.
At one point, reading this book, I literally thought "holy crap, this is a good book!" and it really is.
I'd never want to be in the places that some of them found themselves, but it was hard not to imagine myself there.Another fascinating aspect of the book is that, though it's fiction, it's based in fact - the fact that Hitler's Germany and Churchill's England were competing to create deadly nerve gas.
The characters and the story that Iles used to show that are fictional, but that fact is real.
And it's eye-opening.I'll definitely read "Black Cross" again.
Having enjoyed past books by Greg Iles, the author name and book cover caught my eye.
Resting on a table, front and center at Border's gave me the impression it was a new Iles page turner; I was surprised to see it was from the last century.This is a slice of life story, about a young American doctor working for Britain during WWII.
Enough is historically accurate to make the rendering seem entirely real.All-in-all, this was an entertaining read and I would recommend it to anyone interested in historical, adventure fiction.
Completely unbelievable but a right good read and very hard to put down.I shall be reading more by this author.P.S. First one of my Reading Challenge for 2018 - 14 books (one per month plus 2 alternates/backups) chosen by picking 14 Goodreads' friends whom I have the highest "Compare Books" % with and for each selecting one book that they gave 5 stars to. Thanks to Richard for this one !
In 2001 I conversed a bit with Greg Iles through emails and after reading The Quiet Game I told him I was torn between reading 24 Hours or Black Cross next.
Normally I wouldn't pick up this type of novel; wartimeaction novels just don't appeal to me from a reading standpoint but I love war movies.But as you know by now I'm a big fan of Greg Iles so I owed it to myself to read this.
I'm much more interested in character interactionand psychological suspense than dodging bullets, so I still consider Mortal Fear his greatest work.Now having said that, if this type of novel appeals to you, I doubt you'd find much better than Black Cross.
This novel was seriously a roller coaster ride for me. I have never read any war books or even wanted to for that matter but I seriously could not put this down. This is the first book I've read by this author. I will definitely be reading more of his work in the near future.
A book based on WW II where they tested different gases on people. An intense read for sure. If you have the time it is worth the read. I had a bit of trouble at times, for there was a lot going on in the house at the time- I feel this book needs to be read - just you and the book- no distractions.
First book I've read by this author and it won't be the last. Great story and characters. Kept me in suspense and interested right to the end.
So behind Eisenhower's back, Churchill enlists a pacifist American chemical scientist and medical doctor, Mark McConnell, and Jonas Stern, German Jew and warrior soldier, on a mission to prove the gas exists and to find out how it is made, and secondarily, to use Allied supplies of Sarin to gas the camp where the more powerful Soman is being made to prove to the Germans that the Allies can and would use gas if the Nazis used the Soman.
The novel posits a fictional concentration camp where realistic medical atrocities are being perpetrated in the name of the advancement of science.
Yet, I can’t explain that without delivering an incredible spoiler.Black Cross is solid historical fiction.
I was also fascinated in realizing that MacArthur, Eisenhower, and Patton were all involved in putting down the WWI veterans who were protesting the government’s refusal to pay the army bonus promised during the depression.
122 were actual words lifted from historical speeches, but they sure rang true: “You men are our finest flower, the seeds of the Reich’s future.
And, after all, the future was what the heroes of the World War were fighting for.
I don't even fucking care how shitty I'm supposed to think this novel is. I know there are grammatical errors, I know they all say, "My God, man!" at least 8 times per character, and I know it's super sensationalist... but damn if I didn't spend every waking moment reading this, all the way until the end. Reading this was like eating the appropriate amount of M&Ms - enough that you know it's bad for you, but not so much that you're throwing up. Greg Iles, thank you for some truly unexpected and valuable entertainment.
Not many people I've come across know about this book. I read a lot of thrillers -- and write some of my own -- and BLACK CROSS by Greg Iles is easily one of the best I've ever read. I'd hate to give much away, but the book, which takes place mostly during WWII, has action, suspense, spies and heart. It deals with disturbing subject matter without sensationalizing it. The characters are complex. And here's something I don't often say about a thriller -- I was very moved by this book. I highly recommend it.
I could not put this down. Even though the book described some truly horrible things, I could look past them to go along with the story. The author used tension marvelously, building it up, and then performing a reveal or a plot twist, some of which left my jaw on the floor. The climatic battle and immediate aftermath was just vicious, but I did enjoy the resolution. I would have preferred the epilogue to be longer, but I am content with what was there.
This was a great book! I struggled with one of his other books, but I couldn't put this one down. You become so attached and involved with the characters that you have to keep going to see what happens next. Most of the truly horrific details are about WW2 and the Holocaust are spared for those who have weak tolerance for that and we get a truly well written story!
Ever wish you could completely forget something and experience it all over again? This book had me enthralled, mystified, horrified. Will stay with me for a good long while, and am sad that I’m not sure I’ll ever enjoy it again as much the second, or third time around.
I've read some of his modern thrillers and think that he's one of the better writers in that genre.
We also get to read about a young Jewish mother interned in the camp and her struggles to navigate politics and favoritism in order to survive.
Her story saves the book from being entirely a sausagefest, along with a young German nurse who is risking her life in order to give the Allies information about the camp.
And I suppose that I know enough about the horrors of Nazi concentration camps that no atrocity committed in this book was going to feel unrealistic, just sad.
I think Iles continued to get better after this book.
I loved them both dearly and that alone can reduce me to tears, but this is Greg Iles so I made the exception and while in some ways it was hard I'm glad I did it.Black Cross is a work of fiction but at the same time it is so incredibly written this story just sucked me in from start to finish.
I'm just going to say again I don't read war stories, but this was such a worthwhile exception and Greg Iles is such an amazing writer I can't imagine passing it over.
For anyone who's expecting something similar to Iles' other novels, this one is different. Mr. Iles did oodles of research for this book, but, mid-way through, things kind of get fuzzy and take a critical credibility hit. By  through, I read ready for the operation to just get underway already. My major issues with this book include:• What language are McConnell and Anna Kass conversing so casually in? If it's German, then McConnell is much more fluent than I was led to believe. If it's English,
Mr. Iles did oodles of research for this book, but, mid-way through, things kind of get fuzzy and take a critical credibility hit.
My major issues with this book include:•	What language are McConnell and Anna Kass conversing so casually in?
If it's German, then McConnell is much more fluent than I was led to believe.
This issue really bugged me and it went on for a couple hundred pages.•	On a related note, Stern and McConnell were VERY trusting of a German, whether or not she seemed to be on their side.
The story then moves back to take place in WWII as Mac, who is a scientist and a pacifist, teams up with a Jonas Stern, Jewish activist/soldier, to combat the Nazi devlopment of a deadly nerve gas with a commando mission.The portions of the story that take place inside the concentration camp are both gripping and sad - the horrific treatment of concentration camp victims never fails to shock and disgust me and the author pulled no punches when describing life inside the camp.The story was compelling and makes for a good read as long as you can suspend your disbelief at some of the points where the action is not quite plausible.
This was my first Greg Iles book, so I can't compare it to anything else he's written, but I found it a decent page-turner with good characters and a reasonable premise.
But the very natures of truth and humanity place those subjects among the most difficult to capture properly, and I believe Iles did a fairly good job of showing what he could in a manner acceptable to the largest possible audience.
In the end, it's a solid, decent book with plenty of action and more than a little food for thought.
This story was quite a ride.
It felt like it could have been a true story.
There was a lot of suspense.
I'm not really good with suspense; if this had been a movie I would've covered my eyes at some parts.
With a book, that's not really conducive to finding out what happens!Greg Iles is a very good writer of historical fiction.
Also, I felt that there were some loose ends at the end - he avoided tying everything up in a nice package.
I really enjoyed this, although I was afraid I'd have nightmares after finishing it!
I didn't, though, so don't be afraid.
Went to NYC for 24 hours and did a lot of walking.
And, it was such a thriller, I kept listening until it was finished on Sunday AM!Black Cross is the story of two men - one an American medical doctor and chemist; the other a Jewish resistance fighter - who are "convinced" (using rather nefarious means) by a British general (and Churchill) to undertake a 2-man mission to stop the activities being undertaken at a concentration camp in Northern Germany.
There are a couple of "moles" in the camp providing the Brits with important information on what is happening there.
Truth: The Nazi's created Tabun in 1936, Sarin in 1938 and Soman in 1944.
The US declined.The British had stolen a small sample of Sarin; snuck it out of Germany and then re-developed it at Oxford University.
So in a top secret plan Churchill took a top Chemical Engineer from Oxford who was an American and a Jewish fighter and sent them in to use the gas on a German concentration camp that the gases were being developed at.The story had many twists and turns but was a very enjoyable read.
This was a great book, telling the fictional story of an unassuming physician who risks everything to thwart WWII Germany's attempt to develop and deploy a powerful, never-before-seen chemical weapon.
The story has many twists and turns as serious problems arise with the mission, leaving the reader wondering, doubting if the mission will prove successful, and if success actually means those on the quest will be sacrificed.
I doubt that the outcome of WWII really did hinge on this one event, although the story is roughly based on truth, but this book surely makes the reader feel as if it does.
I really enjoyed this novel and was significantly better than the previous book I read by this author, Spandau Phoenix.This novel weaves a thrilling and sometimes harrowing story around the threat of chemical weapons in world war 2 and the horrific tests carried out by the Nazis in concentration camps.
The story, whilst a little far fetched at times, is gripping and based around historical fact as well as some poetic licence applied by the novelist.I loved all the different settings and environments explored in the story, from the laboratories of wartime Cambridge and the secret training camps in remote Scotland to the wintry forests of the Polish resistance and the shocking and brutal conditions of a concentration camp.
An excellent story well worth reading.
I knew I was going to love this book.
I think Iles is a terrific writer and have thoroughly enjoyed almost all of his previous books.
The setting of this book is my favorite setting in time and place: World War II in Europe, particularly Germany in 1944, featuring a concentration camp inmates and staff, German and Polish Resistance fighters, and a secret mission by an American pacifist chemist and a seasoned veteran of the Haganah determined to destroy the Nazi development of chemical warfare.
This is one of those books you don't want to put down, even if it is over 500 pages!
