https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229117.A_Man_Called_Peter
This book, ya'll.
So where's the 5 billion star button again?I don't think I have ever been so impacted by a single mortal man.
I don't know in what way yet, but this book, and this man changed me.
From a reading perspective, it was very well written, and very accurate, as it is written by Peter Marshall's wife.
I loved this book!
I would highly recommend it to all people!
It blessed and encouraged me in a way I cannot explain, as it and the life of Peter Marshall have done to many people.
A must read!
But not without the domination above all else of his level of Faith.
And faith lived and not only expressed.
It's inspiring to read of his life's enthusiasm and belief of salvation's positivity.
His life was short and Catherine's telling of it may be almost "too close" to grasp how far he came and on such a myriad path to the work he did, IMHO.
Some of the sermon material gets minimized, IMHO, without his voice speaking it, instead of reading it.
More emotive and also melodic for the cadence!I really appreciated the prayers at the ending portion.
They are exactly the prayers that are needed for modern times.
I thoroughly enjoyed learning about Peter Marshall's life, beginning with his humble beginnings in Scotland where he first yearned to serve God. The story of how this impoverished young man was led to the United States, how he became a Presbyterian minister, and how he ultimately became Chaplain of the Senate is filled with illustrations of ways a loving Heavenly Father frequently answers prayers through the actions of those He puts around us--and how we need to listen for the opportunities to meet others' spoken and unspoken needs.The book is filled with amusing anecdotes, humbling shortfalls, and joyful triumphs.
It is a lovely story about Peter Marshall who became the Senate Chaplin in the 40's. Unfortunately, only about 10 pages focuses on that detail of his life, the rest is devoted to how he got there and what an amazing person he was. It was a little too devoted to how amazing he was, I would have enjoyed a more realistic look at the man and seen his faults and how, despite them he became successful. However, if you want a sweet love story this is one.
A fascinating look into the life of Peter Marshall from his wife Catherine's perspective. I was so encouraged and uplifted by the life of this amazing, sold-out-to-God man. A must-read for pastors, ministry workers, and especially pastor's wives.
"God is a God of laughter, as well as prayer...
God is at home in the play of His children .He loves to hear us laugh.We do not honor God by our long faces...
God wants us to be good, not "goody - goody".There is quite a distinction.We must try to make the distinction between worshipand work and play less sharp...If God is not in your typewriter as well as your hymnbook,there is something wrong with your religion.If your God does not enter your kitchenthere is something the matter with your kitchen.If you can't take God into your recreationthere is something wrong with the way you play.
One of the most enjoyable biographies I have read.Dr. Peter Marshall was an Irish Immigrant come to the United States under orders from the "Chief", God, to be a minister of the Word.
As his wife and many others concluded Peter was a man of God who brought life and passion to many in a depressing time through the Bible and the Holy Spirit.
He made Christ alive to many during his years in ministry.This is indeed one of the best biographies I have ever read.
Just about everyone who loves good Christian fiction knows about the Christy series that was on television several years ago.
You can now buy the whole set on DVD from Christianbook.com among other places.
But before the series there was the book.
(See my other recommendations on the old classics tab).
And before the book, Catherine Marshall met a man called Peter.This book is a classic that is a must read for everyone who loves a good story.
A paperback version is still available on Christianbook.com.
To learn more, I suggest you check out Peter Marshall Ministries at: http://petermarshallministries.com/
The highlights of his life are found in the small stories which lead to how Peter Marshall became a household name in the 1930-40s.Being a pastor (or pastor's wife), as you can imagine, can lead one to become involved with people and the community.
Catherine divulges some funny stories, a few secrets, and the demands of the Marshalls and their life led by Christ.When Scottish-born Peter Marshall desperately wanted to follow his calling to "the Chief" (one of his names reserved for the Lord), a friend led him to try ministering in America.
For years I either read this book or watched the movie every Easter.
In fact I really enjoyed this book, about a wonderful man of God who was an real person.
I think his wife, Catherine Marshall, does a good job showing his strengths, weaknesses and humanity while still portraying his powerful faith.There are many examples of times Marshall followed the Spirit and found God working out things better than he could have imagined, and some other times when things appeared to go wrong.
I just appreciate the balance in this book, as well as the examples of faith both Peter and Catherine provide.
I actually got this book because of the sermons in the back, but thought I should read the book while I was at it, movie aside.
Peter Marshall was a truly great man.
She describes a dream in which Peter says it's OK if she writes the book, even if it embarrasses him a little, if it can prove "A man can love God and not be a sissy." We don't talk about sissys much nowadays, but anyone who has lived in America in recent years knows such a message is badly needed.
He was a strong, powerful man of God who was strong enough to love.
This is the last Catherine Marshall book I've read; again, I was not disappointed.
Unlike Christy and Julie, A Man Called Peter is not a novel but a biography of her husband's life.It is a wonderfully inspiring tale of a man called by God. A Man Called Peter is the story of a preacher, Peter Marshall, whose congregations outgrew their churches time and again; who eventually rises to the position of Chaplain of the United States Senate.It is a love story, a deep, tender, love story, underscored by tragedy.
We have learned much from this Scottish immigrant and his love and service to God.
Someone gave me this book to read, and I enjoyed it for two reasons. First, Catherine Marshall provides a glimpse into an age now long gone--the age when church was part of the institutional fabric of our culture, and how "great preachers" such as Marshall were celebrated and sought out. Second, the selection of Marshall's sermons at the end of the book are a great read. They were haunting at times--often covering insights that are just as relevant now as when they were preached over 60 years ago.
Five stars, who am I to argue with history? I was thrilled to meet Peter John Marshall, the son, ten years ago. He was very nice, and spoke to me several times during the week of revivals. He quoted me as " a young teacher" [I was 35!:] who mentioned how hard it was to get the students to say the Pledge of Allegiance seriously (before 9/11). I am always affected when I read this book or watch the movie. It reaches my emotions and spirit in ways that few other books do.
Terrific biography of Peter Marshall, a Scottish-American Presbyterian pastor and preacher. This man's story is an inspiration to me of God's work in a man's life to raise him up from humble beginnings to the Chaplaincy of the U.S. Senate. It includes as well some of his sermons and prayers. In sum, it's a wonderful work about this gifted and graced man. I also enjoyed the film of the same title.
I was touched by Catherine's love for her husband. She inspired me with how she handled Peter's death and, though I read her books years ago, they came back to soothe me when my own dear husband died.
I was first introduced to Peter Marshall through my Richard Todd phase- if you haven't seen the movie you should. But this book was great. Most books that are posthumously written by wives can be gushy. But this one wasn't. And I loved the appropriate last line.
Read this when I was a teenager and fell in love with it. I love the work he did and I think we all lost a beautiful soul when he died. Not many people like him alive today.
Love it. This is the book that changed my life. It started me thinking about becoming an author like Catherine and it's alot about finding your CALLING. I highly recommend it!
The first time I tried this book, I didn't get very far, despite really enjoying Marshall's CHRISTY and JULIE when I was a teenager.
But then I wanted to give it another go after working on a book of another pastor's sermons and seeing Peter Marshall referenced.
And I squirmed every time Catherine Marshall mentioned "the Negro janitor" or the help.
After reading about him, I could see his influence on other pastors I have known and heard.
A worthwhile read, even if it's definitely a church-themed period piece.
Catherine Marshall does a terrific job of telling us Peter's life and how he went from working to support a struggling family in Scotland to become a beloved Senate Chaplain in Washington DC.
I can only pray to have half the effect on people in my entire lifetime that Peter Marshall had in only 20 or so years as a Minister.
The only reason this book received 4 instead of five stars is because I found myself confused at times as to the order of events.
Catherine Marshall skipped around because the book is written by themes instead of in order, so it did get a bit confusing.
When I was there in the late 70's and early 80's, she was not much respected by the English department, in spite of the fact that she was a best-selling author.
I think the primary reason was that she was a practicing Christian, but also there was some intellectual snobbery at work as well.
I thought it was an honest and beautiful tribute to a man that she genuinely admired, respected, loved, and lost too soon.
To the jaded perhaps such emotions are the stuff of ridicule, but I think most people yearn to leave such a legacy with the ones with whom we share our lives.
Reading this book reminds me that greatness can come in unexpected packages.
For Peter Marshall, it came as he was a regular joe who was called to be greater than he expected to be.
Someone who first loved the ocean was called to be the voice of hope in the Senate.
I enjoyed his wife's writing as it was funny, unique, and touching.
Perhaps the most helpful part of the book comes at the end, with the sermons.
His way of writing is sporadic but makes you focus on his words.
This book was given to me by a parishioner at work and I am thankful for it!
I eagerly read each chapter wondering where Peter would go next and how he could meet his wife, Catherine.
Catherine has a way of making the reader feel as if we're right there in the middle of the conversation.The section on "Sermons and Prayers" was so moving.
Whoever thought that reading a sermon could be as good as hearing one.
"Freedom is not the right to do as one pleases but the opportunity to please do what is right." ~ Peter Marshall Page 282
This book was a little different than what I was expecting.
I read Christy by Catherine Marshall a few years ago so when I saw this at the thrift store I thought it was a follow-up to that book.
I really enjoyed learning about his life and how they met and their married life and I enjoyed insights into their deep faith, they set a really nice example even if we are of different faiths.
I only got a little tired of reading through so many parts of his sermons, but I still found that I really enjoyed it and wanted to keep picking it up.
biography about a Scottish American Presbyterian preacher in the early-mid 1900s. wonderful biography, giving faults as well as praise and making him appear very human instead of perfect as some biographies do. very powerful Christian life and thus very powerful words. 6 full sermons and prayers included. an amazing story about a man with a faith almost unbelievable in today's world. some parts were a little long and some things were hard to understand in the chronology.
I read this in the 1980s. Interesting book about how she met her husband and they got together. He became the chaplain for the Senate. She writes about her medical problems and how they affected her marriage and her seeking help through intense prayer and calling upon the Holy Spirit. I liked that she didn't gloss over the bad parts and you really felt for Peter to have a young wife with so many problems. Tragic ending. I never watched the movie.
The hype surrounding Peter Marshall lived on after his death due to this book and the movie made from it. Inspiring? Yes, but not in the way that would bring the heathen into the fold. Peter Marshall was no Richard Todd, but his works and story have an earthy appeal. What makes him truly inspiring and interesting is himself, not his message. He was no fraud, his heart was clear I do believe; us heathens with open minds can marvel at the life led by a Scotsman literally saved by his Lord.
I throughly enjoyed the novels Christy and Julie, but I have not had a chance to read A Man Called Peter. I did have a chance to watch the movie when I was younger before I knew about the book and was moved by how much this man took on in such a little amount of time. This is a biography of Catherine Marshall's husband life and his path with GOD. It show how strong his faith and personality was, but at the same time he was a humble man. This is a must read for me.
That was excellent. For anyone in the ministry, who has a minister father or husband, or for anyone really who has suffered serious illness or a loss, this book is for you. The whole book is like a sermon that you need but also thoroughly enjoy. The back of the book also includes some prayers and sermons of Dr. Marshall's which I will read as soon as I'm finished feeling this strange sad-happiness or happy-sadness. It's like I'm grieving and at peace all at once.
