https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34460.Quicksand
You cannot get out and eventually you cannot....no I will stop there...you must read it.I will not give any spoiler but the gist is an unhappily married couple tangles with a young beautiful vixen and her equally gorgeous eunuch lover.
Beautiful to boot.Eunuch: Manipulative, petty, narcissistic, charming, scheming.Maid of Vixen: colluding, intelligent, falsely submissive, more lethal than a viper.These five characters interact, lust and hurt each other in the most dark and destructive of ways and you are drawn in slowly and stealthily until you are stuck and you cannot leave until the emotional bomb goes off and you in a darkly curious way want to see who survives the atomic aftermath.
The day that Sonoko decides to draw Mitsuko's head instead of the model's at art school, is the day that Sonoko steps into metaphorical quicksand. It doesn't take her long to sink into the mud of obsession, deceit and manipulation.Don't believe a word anyone utters in this novel: ”“. . . You know, sister, as close as we’ve been, I feel ashamed to confess all this to you, and I’ve been holding back, thinking it might turn you against me. I couldn’t be more miserable. But today I told you everythi
The day that Sonoko decides to draw Mitsuko's head instead of the model's at art school, is the day that Sonoko steps into metaphorical quicksand.
It doesn't take her long to sink into the mud of obsession, deceit and manipulation.Don't believe a word anyone utters in this novel:
Can one believe anything at all that is being said?
Angry accusations, indignant denials, contrite confessions and copious crocodile tears are the order of the day in this convoluted plot.
Nothing is as it seems.With this sordid tale Jun'ichiro Tanizaki uses his literary skill to fearlessly dive into the quicksand to drag out some of the uglier human traits.
Profoundly intertwined in the web of envy, violence, adultery, malice, animosity and other ensuing emotional incitements, the four keyed up protagonists ravenously cling onto the vanity of love; Mitsuko becoming the core link in the catastrophic game of love and eroticism , the two men and Sonoko mere pawns of manipulation.
The female characters be it Sonoko or Mitsuko are sexual aggressors; the unrestrained sexual needs clashing with the emotional displacement are emphasized by jaded manipulative passions stimulated by forlorn hearts.
The masked flaws of a virtuous beauty self-contained in a manipulative world fixated on force rein.
(infinity times infinity squared plus sex appeal.)Me: (.)(.)Book: Aren't Mitsuko's breasts hot?Me: Those are eyes!
I have no context for their joy, pain, whatever except to think "Hey, this is like that scene on The Wire when Carchetti fucked that woman and pointed to himself in the mirror while he was getting off.
"Look, another loveless marriage." It was obvious that Sonoko's husband was gonna want Mitsuko (even though the back of the book announced this as one of her feats of persuasion) the same as his wife.
I don't need to read a boring book about stupid pretty people to get that romance can be ridiculous.
Sau khi biết nội dung của ẻm không phải về tôn giáo mà là chuyện tình buê đuê tay bốn đầy kịch tính , em liền về down ngay bản tiếng Anh để đọc , phòng khi nội dung quá biến thái và sẹc xi .
Có lẽ chưa bao giờ em từng đọc về một nhân vật nữ nào điên cuồng đến thế , đẹp hút hồn đến thế , thao túng giỏi như cái cô em gái siu nhơn Mitsuko này .
J'ai déjà lu plusieurs roman de Tanizaki, célèbre écrivain japonais du siècle dernier. Ils explorent les affres de la passion de manière crédible. Celui-ci ne déroge pas à la règle, mettant en scène quatre personnages principaux, empêtrés dans un engrenage d'évènements, un labyrinthe de mensonges, duperies et faux-semblants qui gagne en complexité et en intensité. Le rythme du roman soutient sans faille l'intérêt du lecteur. J'ai beaucoup aimé ce roman, tout comme les autres que j'ai pu lire de ce même auteur.
It was a time when men were real men instead of bishonens, "moe" was a concept that was probably frowned upon because women were allowed to be real, sexually mature women, and if you lost your public reputation you were shit out of luck.2: The reason why Japanese horror is so effective, whereas modern vampire fiction fails to scare, is because there exists an understanding that the Japanese have with human nature that they just as readily accept that humans can be very manipulative, cunning, and downright terrifying without even having to be undead or anything.
The first impression is that Quicksand is masterfully plotted, like a cheap thriller, with chapter ending cliffhangers and steadily mounting (and increasingly implausible) plot twists; but instead of rendering the book a piece of gripping trash, the implausible plot twists transport the book into higher meaning(s) in its portrayal of culture clash, specifically the pull of "old Japan" in the modern world of modern desires.It's a book of seduction, lesbian seduction at that, in which a bored housewife takes up with a fellow art student and chapter by chapter sinks into the quicksand of her bottomless and devious desires powered by a darkly magnetic sex appeal; pulling down not only the housewife, but her husband, a hapless impotent, a housekeeper, and probably even others beyond the specific scope of the book.
Quicksand หรือ Manji โดย Junichiro Tanizaki ชือไทยคือ รักแสรง แรงเสนหา แปลโดย วรวดี วงศสงา สนพ. บานหนังสือทานิซากิตีพิมพเรือง Quicksand ในปี 1931 พอคิดวาเรืองนีเขียนมาตังแตยุคทีญีปุนยังใสชุดกิโมโนเปนปกติในชีวิตประจำวันกอดรูสึกวาชางเปนเรืองทีทันสมัยอะไรขนาดนี ไมรูสึกเกาเชยเลยสักนิด Quicksand อานเพลินๆ ไดสนุกดีคะ จัดวาอานสนุกเลยละถาเทียบกับงานวรรณกรรมคลาสสิค เจาอารมณเคลิมตกอยูในหวงรักของคุณโซโนโกะคือสุดขีดจริงๆ และการคิดหาเหตุผลมาบอกวาการมีชูของเธอไมผิด... นีกคิดเขาขางตัวเองไดนาประทับใจในการชางสรร
Quicksand หรือ Manji โดย Junichiro Tanizaki ชื่อไทยคือ รักแสร้ง แรงเสน่หา แปลโดย วรวดี วงศ์สง่า สนพ.
บ้านหนังสือทานิซากิตีพิมพ์เรื่อง Quicksand ในปี 1931 พอคิดว่าเรื่องนี้เขียนมาตั้งแต่ยุคที่ญี่ปุ่นยังใส่ชุดกิโมโนเป็นปกติในชีวิตประจำวันก็อดรู้สึกว่าช่างเป็นเรื่องที่ทันสมัยอะไรขนาดนี้ ไม่รู้สึกเก่าเชยเลยสักนิด Quicksand อ่านเพลินๆ ได้สนุกดีค่ะ จัดว่าอ่านสนุกเลยล่ะถ้าเทียบกับงานวรรณกรรมคลาสสิค เจ้าอารมณ์เคลิ้มตกอยู่ในห้วงรักของคุณโซโนโกะคือสุดขีดจริงๆ และการคิดหาเหตุผลมาบอกว่าการมีชู้ของเธอไม่ผิด...
นี่ก็คิดเข้าข้างตัวเองได้น่าประทับใจในการช่างสรรหาเหตุผลมาบรรยายมากเลยค่ะQuicksand เป็นเรื่องราวของโซโนโกะ คาเคอุจิ ภรรยายังสาวของทนายความหนุ่มแห่งเมืองโอซาก้า โซโนโกะจะใช้เวลาตอนกลางวันไปเรียนวาดภาพที่โรงเรียนสอนศิลปะ อยู่มาวันหนึ่ง เธอก็ต้องเผชิญข่าวลือเสียๆ หายๆ ระหว่างเธอกับสาวงามลูกคุณหนูนางหนึ่ง นามว่า มิตสึโกะ จากเรื่องนินทาสนุกปากไม่มีเค้ามูล จู่ๆ โซโนโกะกลับพบว่าตนเองเกิดลุ่มหลงในตัวมิตสึโกะมากขึ้นทุกที จนกลายมาเป็นเรื่องราวในเล่มนี้ค่ะ Quicksand แบ่งเป็นช่วงใหญ่ๆ ได้ 3 ช่วง คือ 1.ช่วงโซโนโกะหวานชื่นกับกิ๊กคนใหม่ของเธอซึ่งเป็นสาวสวยหยดย้อยนามว่า มิตสึโกะ 2.ช่วงกลางเรื่องที่มีเหตุการณ์ชวนสับสนว่ามิตสึโกะเป็นคนอย่างไรกันแน่นะ?
และ 3.
ช่วงท้ายที่เต็มไปด้วยอารมณ์เชี่ยวกรากชนิดกลายสภาพไปเป็นละครชิงรักหักสวาทเลยค่ะคำว่า Quicksand ชื่อเรื่องหมายถึง ทรายดูด เป็นการเปรียบเทียบอารมณ์ความรู้สึกถลำลึกของโซโนโกะที่ตกอยู่ในห้วงรักกับมิตสึโกะว่าเหมือนทรายดูด ความลุ่มหลงมัวเมาชนิดที่ไม่สนใจวาจะต้องโกหกหรือปั้นแต่งเรื่องราวอะไร ทั้งหมดทั้งมวลที่ทำลงไปก็เพื่อให้เธอมีเวลาได้อยู่ใกล้ชิดมิตสึโกะเท่านั้นเราชอบวิธีการเล่าเรื่องในเล่มนี้ค่ะ1.
(มีชู้เป็นผู้หญิงด้วย) แล้วสามีนางไม่มีการระแคะระคายเลยเหรอ?คำเตือน: กรุณาระวังปกหลังฉบับแปลไทยหลุดสปอยด์มาเต็มๆ เลยค่ะ 2.
เรื่อง Quicksand ก็ภาษาจัดจ้านแบบนั้นแหล่ะค่ะ แต่ในความจัดจ้าน ภาษาของทานิซากิกลับเรียบร้อยมากเลยด้วยนะคะ3.
เราพบว่าฉากทั้งหลายเล่านี้ "ไม่มีการเขียนบอกตรงๆ" เลยค่ะ นอกจากจะไม่มีคำพรรณนาแล้วก็ยังไม่ได้ใช้วิธีการเปรียบเปรยเปรียบเทียบด้วย เขาแค่บอกว่ามัน "เกิดอะไรขึ้น" โดยเขยิบข้ามไปเล่าจากจุดอื่น ตอนเราอ่านเจอฉากที่เขาเล่าแบบนี้หนแรกก็รู้สึกอะเมซิ่งมาก แต่อ่านไปเรื่อยๆ ก็พบว่า อ่อ...
ประวัติของทานิซากิที่ทางสนพ.บ้านหนังสือเอามาลงไว้ในช่วงก่อนเข้าเรื่อง ประวัติของเขาแซ่บมากเลยค่ะป.ล.2 นิยายของทานิซากิมีแปลไทยอยู่ทั้งหมด 4 เรื่องกับทางสนพ.บ้านหนังสือ คือ Quicksand, The Key, Diary of a Mad Old Man, Some Prefer Nettles ส่วน non-fiction มีเยิรเงาสลัวกับทางโอเพ่นบุ๊คค่ะ
Mọi tội lỗi đều có lý lẽ để biện hộ. Miễn là còn có luật sư và nhà văn :3
It is not an every day love story, not a common erotic novel, it is about people that are always in between paths: live as you want or live by others expectations.
Sonoko and her husband are the common married couple until they meet Mitsuko, after that their world changes, life takes it's way to a path that it's considered immoral, but if we transfer our thoughts outside our mind and just take a look at them i think we'll see that we are all selfish, countless thinking to reach our desires.Junichiro Tanizaki is great at capturing this dark side of the people were the primary instincts are coming out, where we can see how life, culture, standards, family, prejudices, etc.
Quando eu terminei de ler Avenida Niévski, eu escrevi "Uma avenida em São Petersburgo, dois homens, duas mulheres.
Voragem conta, principalmente, a história de um romance entre duas mulheres.
Sonoko Kakiuchi apaixona-se perdidamente por Mitsuko, sua colega do curso de pintura.
O amor torna-se então uma força destruidora que consumirá esses quatro personagens (o terceiro é o marido de Sonoko e o quarto aparece perto da metade do livro) em uma rede de traições, mentiras, chantagens e reviravoltas incríveis.
E a prosa é uma seda, uma coisa linda e extasiante.
Um livro super econômico, curto, preciso e memorável.
Đọc thấy bất ngờ, được viết khá lâu nhưng đã có những tư tưởng rất táo bạo và tiến bộ.Bài mình viết trên trang Đọc Sách: https://docsach.org/2017/05/20/chu-van/
Gaudy Osaka lesbians panting and gurning at each other, like something from the kabuki, on beautiful Nara hillsides.
I liked Watanuki and his … problems.
Why couldn't he have had a bit more to do?
I wanted a bit more.Mitsuko's parents were totally rubbish, weren't they?
I thought rich Japanese people would have been pissed off if their daughter's arranged marriage fell through due to rumours of hot lesbian fun-times.
They seemed a bit "comme ci, comme ca" about it all.But I like Tanizaki, he can be so tacky!
Quicksand's title in Japanese is "卍".
Truyện rất hóm, nhất là ở phần chú thích của tác giả :D Đại loại câu chuyện cả 1 lũ lên đồng vì tình mà càng về cuối càng hài, nhất là từ khi anh chồng cũng vướng vào.
Đọc truyện này ngoài cái mọi người vẫn bàn luận thì ấn tượng nhất là xã hội Nhật Bản ngày ấy sao văn minh thế.
Thế mà hồi ấy các nhân vật đi chơi xa chơi gần thoải mái, phương tiện sẵn, về khuya vẫn có tàu taxi này nọ.
Taxi cũng vẫy cái là có.
Con gái đi chơi xem phim đến đêm cũng ko sao :-)
One day Sonoko asks Mitsuko to come back to her house and pose nude for her so she can complete her drawing of her as the Kannon Bodhisattva.We begin to wonder now who is the deceiver and who the deceived, of course someone can be both.
There are no explicit scenes in Quicksand but there is more erotic power felt than in D H Lawrence's Lady Chatterley's Lover, also first published in 1928.
One day Sonoko learns under shocking circumstances that Mitsuko has a male lover also and might be pregnant.
We feel the beauty and erotic power of Mitsuko.
Ok the cast: one bored housewife, one timid husband, one impotent young man, and one gorgeous young girl.A quick recap...
bored housewife falls in love with gorgeous young girl but then finds out that she is seeing an impotent young man while the bored housewife's timid husband gets suspicious over everybody seeing everybody so he gets seen too and everyone is lying and scheming and then tears, threats of suicide pacts and general goofiness abounds.Tanizaki wrote this book in the 1920's about a lesbian relationship.
He made me really want to lay my eyes on that one gorgeous young girl.
หลอกลวง ลุมหลง ถามิตสุโกะมีตัวตนจริงๆ อยากเหนหนาจัง มีความรายกาย ตอนทายๆเรือง ไมคอยสมจริงเทาไร รวมๆแลวเพลิดเพลินดี 😄
หลอกลวง ลุ่มหลง ถ้ามิตสุโกะมีตัวตนจริงๆ อยากเห็นหน้าจัง มีความร้ายกาย ตอนท้ายๆเรื่อง ไม่ค่อยสมจริงเท่าไร รวมๆแล้วเพลิดเพลินดี 😄
Essentially, the plot focuses on a kind of love triangle arguably mischievous, sensual and semi-erotic related to Mrs. Sonoko Kakiuchi (as “I” through the story), Mitsuko and Watanuki whose significant role first appears in Chapter 11.
Some complex problems inevitably ensue and there are a few points worth sharing with my friends who might read it soon.First, we may wonder, I think, whom the narrator is talking to (i.e.
213) In a word, his/her name remains anonymous forever.Second, Mitsuko is successful by her means of addressing Mrs. Kakiuchi as ‘Sister’ essentially expressed to show her respects and intimacy for her goal.
This makes the third Tanizaki book that I've read, the first two being The Makioka Sisters and Naomi.
If I had any doubts about reading the rest of his works, this convinced me.
I read through the book fairly quickly because I wanted to see how the story would develop.
It becomes clear very, very early on the Mitsuko isn't completely upfront with her motives and Sonoko is clearly telling the story in the most favorable way possible.
As for Watanuki and Kotari, their motivations are always a bit unclear, due to the structure of the book.
ตัวละครแตละตัวชัดเจนดี ทุกตัวนาสนใจในแบบของตนและโยงใยเกียวพันกันอยางคาดไมถึง ชอบวิธีการเลาเรืองดวย ถาใครสนใจศึกษาวิธีการเขียนนวนิยายแลวละก เราวาเลมนีเปนอีกเลมทีนาสนใจศึกษาวิธีการเลาเรือง ;)
ตัวละครแต่ละตัวชัดเจนดี ทุกตัวน่าสนใจในแบบของตนและโยงใยเกี่ยวพันกันอย่างคาดไม่ถึง ชอบวิธีการเล่าเรื่องด้วย ถ้าใครสนใจศึกษาวิธีการเขียนนวนิยายแล้วล่ะก็ เราว่าเล่มนี้เป็นอีกเล่มที่น่าสนใจศึกษาวิธีการเล่าเรื่อง ;)
Tem sim, algumas ideias que não são tão bem amarradas e te deixam meio com dificuldade em acreditar nas coisas, mas eu sinto isso de forma geral em literatura japonesa então não sei até que ponto isso foi mal construído ou é apenas a afirmação de um tipo de narrativa.Este é um livro de leitura voraz, você é arrematado.
Os capítulos curtos compõem a narrativa e estimulam a leitura.Recomendo, mas tenho 99% de certeza que metade das pessoas não vão gostar desse livro.
o livro fala sobre viver uma paixão arrasadora com uma pessoa manipuladora, em quem você não confia, e ver a vida perder o controle.
Ao mesmo tempo em que isso é viver o mais intensamente possível, e a princípio, significaria aproveitar mais a vida, é um tanto quanto assustador imaginar que nós estamos a mercê de sermos atingidos por essa fantasia da grande paixão.
e quando se combina com a cultura japonesa (muita sensibilidade, muito comprometimento com os sentimentos) a combinação fica bombástica.Me surpreendi bastante com vários valores da cultura japonesa que eu não conhecia (o tempo todo eles falam em se suicidar em prol de algo), além de um erotismo muito mais natural e sem culpa.Indico fortemente!
Συναρπαστικό μυθιστόρημα με μία ατμόσφαιρα από film noir. Ο συγγραφέας εξυφαίνει μία ιστορία γεμάτη αγάπη, ερωτικό πόθο, εξαπάτηση, ανθρώπινο πόνο και θάνατο. Ίσως αν ο συγγραφέας ήταν Δυτικός και η ιστορία εξελισσόταν στην Δύση να μην είχε το ίδιο αποτέλεσμα, αλλά θα πρέπει να λάβει κανείς υπ’ όψιν την ιδιαιτερότητα του ιαπωνικού πολιτισμού και τρόπου ζωής και τότε θα πάρει άλλο νόημα η ιστορία αυτή.
"Chết ở Vienice" của Nhật Bản :)
teatro do absurdo
O livro começa muito bem. A relação claramente é desproporcional, há um tipo de obsessão da protagonista por Mitsuko. No entanto depois fica muito repetitivo, um eterno "vai não vai" que demora para ser resolvido. Considerando que foi inicialmente publicado em fascículos faz sentido. Mas existe um valor histórico também, de um romance homossexual escrito no Japão dos anos 1920.
Al final, las pasiones humanas tienden a ser cubiertas, en un mayor o menor grado dependiendo de las habilidades de cada persona y su conciencia.Ahora bien, la señora Kaikuchi sufre esta situación matrimonial, y en un momento crítico de su matrimonio, conoce a la joven Mitsuko.
Digo admiración, porque el deseo carnal es un efecto secundario de ese embelesamiento de la belleza humana.En una sociedad como la japonesa de inicios del siglo XX, esta situación tiene todas las características de que no terminará del todo bien.
Hàng loạt những hạnh động điên cuồng của Kakiuchi diễn ra trong câu chuyện này : tôn thờ, yêu say đắm, ghen tuông, bao dung che chở cho Mitsuko cũng giống như chồng của Kakiuchi yêu cô ấy, ghen tuông và bao dung tha thứ cho hết lỗi lầm này đến lỗi lầm khác của cô ấy.
Khi đọc gần hết câu chuyện, mình thấy người chồng này tuyệt vời làm sao và hai người phụ nữ kia giống như hai mụ điên vậy.
Thế nhưng đến cuối thì mình lại thấy Mitsuko là mụ điên còn hai vợ chồng Kakiuchi là hai kẻ đầy tớ của tình yêu.
contorsioni giapponesi d'annataOsaka, inizio del secolo scorsoSonoko è una donna sposata, incline al
