https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146191.The_Unsettling_of_America
maybe you'll find this at a garage sale in a beat up box for twenty-five cents.
maybe she'll turn the pages and sigh at her consumption.
maybe she'll walk more.
the nurturing of her landscape becomes almost spiritual in her recognition of the land and its affect on her.
or maybe she is just standing in a shopping mall and feeling the emptiness.
maybe she will stop there in the center of the mall feeling the emptiness.
and she will feel the emptiness.
in the calling of those birds the emptiness might turn into something else.
Every once in a while, a book comes along at the right place and at the right time, and that book has the power to change your life. This was that book for me. It moved me out of the city and into the country, and inspired me to grow food for people. It changed the way I view my relationship to the earth, and my responsibility to it. Don't read this book if you want to live comfortably with your current worldview.
All of my ag professors, save one, laughed at the idea of "organic" and "sustainable" and would only allow the non-regulated trend of "all-natural" a measure of respect, because...
I've struggled with the idea of writing my mid-west ag college and insisting on a refund for my bogus, biased, non-sustainable and recently declared "most worthless in the nation" education.While I don't follow Mr. Berry's religious leanings (You could often replace "Christian" with any other religion..
as most agree on terms of goodness and responsibility, which he seems to forget.) reading the book felt like sitting in the pews of a call-and-response sermon.
See [http://www.msu.edu/~kikbradl/little.html]------------------------Most of us, for example, not only do not know how to produce the best food in the best way - we don't know how to produce any kind in any way.
I believe that the death of the world is breeding in such minds much more certainly and much faster than in any political capital or atomic arsenal.------------------------Wendell Berry has long been an inspiration to me, the kind of person I think about when facing highly symbolic questions that are of little import.
What would Wendell Berry think about my job/clothes/car/haircut, I wonder?
I initially read this book very slowly because I wanted to be sure I was understanding and absorbing its messages.
He makes me feel very grateful to be living in Sonoma County, CA, where many local farmers subscribe to the same approach to small-scale traditional agriculture that Berry advocates.
We are lucky to have easy access to many varieties of "heirloom" fruits & vegetables, organic dairy products from a farm whose energy comes almost exclusively (99%, I believe) from the manure produced by the cows, and numerous cheesemakers and bakers who make use of local ingredients from small farms.
Agribusiness has been destroying our soil fertility, killing beneficial insects (like bees), decimating our waterways (through eutrophication that kills fish and all aqueous life), and striping the nutritional content from our food (you can grow crops on industrial chemicals, but you can't make them nutritious) for roughly eighty years.
As a consequence Americans are unhealthier than any other population in the world (along with European nations with the same practices), and life on the planet is at serious risk.
Yet, our government continues to subsidize the industry and fund agricultural colleges that are perpetuating this destruction.
A great, although uneven, criticism of the reigning agricultural and cultural mentality in the U.S. It's impressive that Berry wrote this more than 30 years ago since the argument seems just as timely today.
The first two and last two chapters were the strongest.
The vagueness of some of his terminology and expressions in these chapters resulted in my losing interest.
The argument itself was subtle, but it wasn't as well elucidated as I would have liked.
I fully admire the lyricism of his writing in these chapters; it just didn't quite scratch my particular itch this time around.
A funny thing happened with this book, I read it last year before the election and felt it was beautifully written but sort of idealistic and naive.
Then after the election, I reread it, and my mind was much more prepared for it.
It is truly a masterpiece of American literature and letters.
I think if you want to understand how things have gotten to how they are, politically, culturally and economically, or even if you want to understand one of the possible causes of ennui in America today, then this book is a lovely place to start.
Powerfully and cogently argued. Mr. Berry argued with such passion, in fact, that the reader is tempted to accuse him of hyperbole. Unfortunately, I can say from my own experience, but virtually all of his predictions have been fully born out in the agricultural world just in the last 30 years of my experience. If predictive power is one of the marks of the validity of a mental model, then his model undoubtedly possesses that mark.
With broad strokes, Berry creates a vision of a 20th-century America held hostage by "agriprofessionals" and the atomization of our lived experience.
Part of what I love about this book is the authority and confidence in which Berry speaks about literally every part of our lived experience: eating, love and romance, faith.
4.) That love, alone, regardless of circumstances, can make harmony and resolve serious differences 5.) That "love will find a way" and so finally triumph over any kind of practical difficulty.
8.) That monogamous marriage is therefore logical and natural, and "foresaking all others" involves no difficulty.What does this have to do with agriculture?
He compares this with the healthy, sustainable, organic Amish traditions, which totally made me want to go hang out with the Amish and learn how to wield a scythe.The one good thing I see that has occurred in our country since the publication of this book is the trend towards farmers markets and CSAs. They are the one ray of hope I see in our current situation, when most of us haven't a clue where or how the food we put in our bodies was grown.

relevant.
A challenging critique of the last half century of agricultural policy and the coinciding societal shift away from rural, communal living to urban individualism.
24"The lost identity would find itself by recognizing physical landmarks, by connecting itself responsibly to practical circumstances; it would learn to stay put in the body to which it belongs and in the place to which preference or history or accident has brought it; it would, in short, find itself in finding its work." P.
174On ecology, healthy agriculture, and our connections to our bodies and communities and the land:"Though we have no choice but to live at the expense of other life, it is necessary to recognize the limits and dangers involved: past a certain point in a unified system, 'other life' is our own." P.
Berry's fiction and non-fiction have such a fluidity in their values that reading both grants you a fuller picture of what it means to live thoughtfully in Creation.
I understand more the value of hard, worthy work and the gravity and weight given to us in being caretakers of this beautiful earth God has fashioned and cares for so tenderly.
This was a weighty and enlightening read and I caution anyone against reading it and thinking they can have their eyes opened to a broader understanding of our purpose on this earth and not feel discontent with loudness and bigness that technology has unfortunately provided for us.
a little theoretical and abstract at times, and i wish there was a more recent edition, but still incredibly and ridiculously relevant to our agricultural issues. wendell berry is certainly a prophet of sorts and his writing contains nuggets of wisdom and concepts that don't really exist in modern commentaries about our food system
I liked this book because I agreed with it and because it has cute little examples about welsh farmers singing to their cattle, or like the different species of peruvian potatoes. it was very nice.
He wants to farm the land now in ways that will preserve its production capacity.It is this focus on sustainability, in the deepest sense of the word, that resonates so strongly with me.
Even though I come to different conclusions than he would on many specific issues, I feel a discussion of those disagreement would be focused on which techniques better meet the same underlying goals, rather than arguments about the goals themselves.A random selection of the quotes I noted while reading:pg 41: But as a social or economic goal, bigness is totalitarian; it establishes an inevitable tendency toward the one that will be biggest of all.
There is something deeply perverse about appealing to the virtues of agriculture in light of the 10,000 years humanity has spent eking out an subsistence since the Neolithic revolution. Now that we're finally out of the Malthusian trap and living in one of the most opulent periods in human history, Wendell Berry thinks its all too much. It takes a very particular kind of blindness to romanticize an institution that has defined penury and destitution for most of human history. I love that I live in a time where we're so rich we can play at being poor.
Some parts are simultaneously beautiful and valuable. Like a latter-day Aldo Leopold, Berry is awfully good at finding the beauties of the natural world, and his essays on the agrarian ethos and the use of good land prove fruitful both as life lessons and as meditations. However, it's when he embarks upon the spiritual that I start to get really annoyed, and the text turns cloying and self-righteous. In the end, these are annoyances rather than major flaws, and I can still pretty strongly recommend the book.
I actually didn't finish this one in time to return it to the library, but I really liked the parts I read. Berry's writing makes me want to sell our house, move out to the country and become farmers. Obviously, Grant wouldn't go for that, but I'd like to read more of his stuff. It's pretty heavy, so you have to sit with it and give it some time to sink in. I'm looking forward to revisiting it.
An eloquent statement of an alternative view of culture, health, family and, of course, agriculture -- one that should at least be considered for adoption by every American.
i can't stop thinking about this book. i feel like joining a agro-communist 1970's cult.
Wanted to like it, but found it boring-- didn't finish. Also found some of the language in it a bit offensive when it is clearly not intended to be so.
(Efficiency, as Berry correctly points out, that is always defined by 'specialists' and ‘experts’ according to human energy, who consequently are scornful at the idea of embodied physical work.)He’s extremely thoughtful about this stuff.
What does this obsession with control, that technology inevitably brings, do to us and the way we relate to the world and its ecosystems?Wendell Berry once said in an interview that he’d be very troubled if he met someone who agreed with everything he said.
In terms of monetary efficiency, that is, purely in business terms, it may be more profitable, but in terms of what really matters in life -- nature, fulfilling work, family, sustainability, and spiritual health -- the modern agricultural revolution has really been a devolution.Berry's impassioned prose may often come across as unbalanced.
His indignation at what has happened to American rural life is understandable, and probably justified, but he doesn't spare his enemies any measure of his fury, and it is likely that if you don't already agree that something is wrong with modern agriculture, this book may not be the place to start.
The central argument of the book is that industrial agriculture has destroyed the social fabric of America.
I have seen firsthand the desertification of the fields and it is a tragedy as well as a crisis, because it puts our food source in jeopardy.However I had not considered the social consequences of forcefully moving (by unemployment) millions of people from rural areas to cities.
As Wendell puts it in the 1995 afterword: “This book’s tragedy is that it is true.” If you are concerned with America’s present and future, this is THE must read book for you.
Some might argue he’s the guy who started these movements, though his books are simply about the land and our connection to it and the way this has been lost and abused by industrial agriculture and destructive practices and structures-- what Berry calls “agribusiness.” He writes fiction and poetry as well, but from what I’ve read and heard of these works the central theme is the same: fidelity to place.The Unsettling of America is a collection of some of Berry’s classic and most influential essays.
Thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Have read a few of Berry's other books, but this is, so far, at least, my favorite.
He tied together a lot of the issues that are now plaguing us.
I had to remind myself that he was writing this in the mid 1970s.
Berry expresses a deep understanding as to how all of these, while treated as separate, are indeed intimately connected.
Ultimately, he stresses that we are all part of this Earth and need to recognize our connection to it and to each other.
That insight alone makes reading this book worthwhile, and there is so much more besides that.
