https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11499.The_Promise
Capita in più opere da lui scritte il destino di proseguire oltre, sempre con notevoli risultati.Qui i due giovani protagonisti ormai sulla soglia dell'età adulta (siamo negli anni '50 del XX secolo), coi loro talenti e l'impegno profuso, stanno realizzando scelte lungamente ambite : Reuven come rabbino e docente; Danny avviato all'attività di psichiatra.Tra loro viene ad insinuarsi una giovane donna.A questi personaggi si aggiunge un adolescente intelligente e fragile, emotivamente disturbato, figlio di un famoso intellettuale ebreo in posizioni di laicità.
Distrussero la fede dell'uomo in se stesso".Come ho detto, il libro è bellissimo, superlativo assoluto che si attribuisce con parsimonia.
For all those struggling through religious issues (especially my LDS friends) -- this book will put so much into perspective.This book explains everything. And it has the potential to change a great deal.I cannot recommend highly enough.
American troops are fighting and dying in Korea instead of Europe, McCarthy is being a jackass, and recently immigrated European Jews, the survivors of the Holocaust, are beginning to change landscape of American Judaism.There are several drivers of conflict within this book, most of them revolving around Jewish identity.
His father is a world renowned Talmudic Scholar but utilizes scriptural analytical techniques that many recent Jewish immigrants find dangerous to their view of sacred texts.
The recent immigrants from Europe who saw their culture, way of life, and loved ones go up in smoke during the war defend their view of scripture zealously, opposing the work of Reuven's father and similar scholars in public and private forums.
Chaim Potok draws you into the lives of the characters; Reuven's internal struggle to figure out just "what kind" of Jew he is while still remaining true to the faith he learned from his father, Danny's empathy with Michael's suffering and his desire to prove that choosing psychology was the right thing to do...
but most of all it is tragic to see how much humans tear each other apart - in this book it's between Hasidic and other Orthodox Jews - but it reflects how those who are most similar to us are sometimes the easiest ones to hate and the hardest to love.
the embracing of new ideas is a theme that holds universal application.
It is a story of the unlikely friendship between 2 young Jews from Brooklyn (1940s).
Ultimately their friendship serves as a bridge to bring some intercourse between the sects, some honor and respect and understanding.
But Danny manages to hold to the traditions while at the same time expanding them; as a psychologist he becomes a "Tzaddik to the world." All of these expansions of mind, soul, and tradition are accomplished by the amalgamation that occurs between Danny and his more liberal Jewish friend, Reuven.
I read this book becasue I fell in love with the main characters, Danny and Reuven.
However, I felt that even though the text is less substantial in the amount of time spent on Danny, you get an equally in-depth insight into his life and experiences because of the awareness made of his character to the reader in the first book.
There is something about the way Chaim Potok writes that not just makes you want to read his stories, but in fact respectfully welcomes you in to become intimate with the characters' thoughts and feelings.
But this book truly deserves every one of these 5 stars!And I'm going to be hard pressed to explain exactly WHY!
Chaim Potok is such a brilliant author and his writing is SO very elegant and layered but try as I might, I cannot put a finger on PRECISELY why his books are so special...
One theme in this book that I find fascinating is the pull and tug between the traditional and the modern...Another thing that fascinated me is the way Potok would sprinkle references to James Joyce's Ulysses throughout the story...
I wanted to write a long review on this marvelous novel ..However I think I won't find enough words to describe my admiration!This is the sequel of Potok's novel "The Chosen" Which I didn't think anything can beat it , We have the same old characters beside lots of other new scholars and their families. Potok continues drawing his characters that you feel you already can see & feel them , his major strength point in writing is the dialogue between characters and the description of places &am
Potok continues drawing his characters that you feel you already can see & feel them , his major strength point in writing is the dialogue between characters and the description of places & people that is neither lengthy nor too short..
This came to me as a shock ..so we "Muslims" are not the only reserved people in the world!
Potok simply reserve Noble Prize, I wonder why he didn't get it till now!P.S: Again I'm here evaluating the literature and the great gift the writer has as you can imagine how different his thoughts can be from an Arab Muslim girl!
The Promise is the continuation of Chaim Potok's brilliant novel, The Chosen which I loved.
It did not capture my heart as did The Chosen.
A promise to one of Reuven's Talmud instructors and one to a very sick boy filled with rage will have have both young men questioning their judgement and test their capacity for forgiveness.
Potok crafts his story lines well and again his characters (most of them) are warm and multidimensional.
There is a boy not yet 13 whom is full of rage and sickness.
There are a few other subtle complex story lines that Potok deals with beautifully.
I didn't love this quite as much as The Chosen. It is still so well written, quiet and loud at the same time... It is full of thoughts, feelings, culture, and history. The last half dragged a bit for me... I loved the first half tho.
While The Chosen focused on Reuven's life-altering friendship with Danny as the two boys found their way to manhood, The Promise deals with the clash of belief and unbelief, tradition and secularism, Orthodoxy and unorthodoxy, and supernaturalism and naturalism that hit the post-war American Jewish community.
Before long, the Gordon family seeks Danny's clinical psychology services for their son, and the plot pulls together characters whose ideas repel them from one another.At one point in the book, Rav Kalman asks Reuven accusingly about his association with the secularist Abraham Gordon.
"No," Reuven replies, "I don't like his answers." What about his questions, asks Rav Kalman.
upon rereading (the chosen) for about the third time and reading the sequel (the promise) for the first time, i think chaim potok is now one of my favorite authors.
with seemingly simple sentences and straightforward descriptions, draws us into reuven and danny's world: a time and place and religion: brooklyn, world war i and ii, orthodox judaism.
And the promise becomes much larger and is about revolution and changing the system in which you grew up and/or one you are trying to move into.
dealing with hating and loving your family at the same time.
Potok goes digging about in such messy but realistic parts of life.
I think that's why I care about his books.
His books aren't very full of action and can feel slightly dull, but the reader is rewarded with moments of both vivid beauty and pain.
While reading The Promise, I appreciated (and was thrown off balance by) how nuanced Potok's characterizations are.
As a result, I sympathized with both sides of the conflict.
He didn't whitewash or vilify.
There were things to love and things to detest in the lives of almost all of the characters--just as in the complicated world I live in.
The Chosen is probably one of my all time favorite books.
I loved seeing how the characters from The Chosen continued to grow and struggle and think through what they believed.
This book made me think about what a culture or faith group does in response to a shifting belief system when they have come out of a period of persecution (this book highlights the struggles of European Jews emigrating to the US after being interned in concentration camps).
How do you respect others who think differently, how do you love them, how do you confront what you believe are truly essential threats, how do you even sort out what are real or simply perceived threats?
Although not quite as impressive as The Chosen, The Promise is still laudable, skillfully woven to a depth which many modern books tend to lack.The Chosen takes place in Brooklyn, New York, amongst the various Jewish sects which resided there in the 1940’s.
The book begins with Reuven Malter, a Jewish student and son of prominent Talmud commentator David Malter, as 15 years old.
Michael is the son of Abraham Gordon, whose writings have caused much controversy among Jewish Talmudists.
A modern classic, The Promise will leave readers both enlightened at the wisdom and breathless at the sincerity of this piece.
It explores the tensions between fundamentalist and liberal elements of religion, and also explores in more depth the parent/child relationship, especially for those, such as Reuven's father, who are vocal and occasionally the target of harsh criticisms.
On the other hand, Reuven begins an acquaintance with Abraham Gordon, a writer who is trying to bridge the gap between his atheism and his traditional Jewish roots.
It seems that Reuven himself is somewhere in the middle, and these elements of the story are brought together in Michael, the mentally ill son of Abraham Gordon, who is being treated by Danny.
As in the previous book, I liked the relationship between Reuven and his father.
Excellent book! I was captivated from the very start, and became quickly invested in the story and its characters. I wanted to help Michael, encourage Reuven, smack Rav Kalman, and hug David Malter. It’s a wonderful story about thinking for yourself and not believing in something just because someone told you to.
This was such a wonderful book! It's the best one I've read by Potok so far. So full of melancholy and feeling, so incredibly beautiful. <3
A tremendous sequel to The Chosen.
A brilliant, beautiful book. A little too Freudian, but beautiful even still.
I love Potok's writing style and his story-telling - his books contain deep messages for life. I will be sad when I read his last book.
In this setting Danny Saunders and Reuven Malter, two Orthodox boys introduced in the gripping tale of The Chosen, complete their coming of age, united in the treatment of a young boy whose genius is matched by his inexplicable rage.In The Chosen, Danny chose to depart from his father's legacy as a Hasidic rabbi, a leader of his community.
Instead, he makes his own choice, and Kalman proves to be much like Reb Saunders: the enmity is defeated, but not his person.Though initially appealing for being the further story of Danny and Reuven, Potok's skill at rendering intense debate that results in mutual understanding rather than one-sided triumphs impressed me.
Rachel, along with her 14 year old cousin Michael, is also vacationing at the same area as Reuven and his father.
Danny, Reuven s oldest and best friend, becomes involved in Michael s care as Michael s condition deteriorates.[return][return]These two main threads Reuven s struggle with Rav Kalman and Danny s treatment of Michael--become entangled.
Potok is incredibly good at showing a gentile world what such Torah study is and what it means especially to Orthodox Jewry.
I think Potok did an awesome job illustrating that, and I really think it would do us all good to take the time to define that for ourselves at some point.A few of the quotes that really stood out to me as I read:"A teacher can change a person's life.
When a man has a choice to make he chooses what is most important to him, and that choice tells the world what kind of man he is.""Rebellion, said Abraham Gordon, is a conscious act of the will directed toward the remolding of ideas or institutions whether by force or by persuasion.
His teacher Rav Kalman disagrees with the method of Talmudic study that Reuven and his father use.
Reuven also spends a great deal of time with Michael Gordon, a troubled boy, and his father, Abraham Gordon--also a controversial Jewish scholar.Reuven's old friend Danny treats Michael, resorting to an intensive period of isolation when other types of therapy do not work.
Danny marries a modern Jewish woman in his father's synagogue.
Reuven's father leaves his job under intense scrutiny and begins a new one.This book certainly resonated with me.
This was the second book that I read from Potok.
I highly recommend reading the Chosen before reading the Promise as you get a better and more coherent picture in the Promise.
The world of Christianity, especially the relationship between critical scholarship of the academia and the reaction of the church in general and the effects of traditionalism and fundamentalism exist everywhere, not only in Judaism.
If you are inclined towards critical scholarship, not satisfied with the tradition for the sake of keeping the tradition, you'll find this book filled with conventional wisdom and direction.
I highly recommend this book!
Reuven and Danny are still friends, each of them is pursuing graduate work - Danny in psychology and Reuven studying at the Yeshiva for his ordination.
The story opens during August while Reuven and his father are on vacation at a lake.
Because of those issues, Michael is admitted to a treatment center - the one where Danny is interning - and Danny attempts to work with Michael.
Re-read in 2013.
I suspect that this is because it is less about Reuven and Danny's friendship and more about other issues and the interactions that Reuven and Danny have in those situations.
I loved following the characters from The Chosen, as I learned more about Jewish culture and history (plus some psychology).
A choice tells the world what is most important to a human being.
When a man has a choice to make he chooses what is most important to him, and that choice tells the world what kind of a man he is.'" -p.
Each generation thinks it fights new battles.
But the battles are the same.
272"'How can we teach others to regard the tradition critically AND with love?
I grew up loving it, and then learned to look at it critically.
Čitajući, mislio sam da su se riječi oblikovale i redale same od sebe.
Priča je još uvijek usredotočena na dvojicu prijatelja i njihove izbore i borbe.
Međutim, ponešto je izgubljena ona univerzalnost koju sam osjećao čitajući prethodnika.
Naravno, još uvijek postoje ozbiljne pouke koje ovdje možete naučiti i primijeniti u svome životu.
Ovo je knjiga o miru u sukobu (tu je veoma slična s "The Chosen").
Ujedno ovo je nastojanje pomirbe tradicije i modernog.
Zaista ugodno štivo u kojem se možete izgubiti i prepustiti se ljepoti stvaralaštva i snazi riječi.
Ocjena je uvjetovana neminovnom usporedbom s "The Chosen", koji je bio mnogo snažniji.
I was anxious to pursue Danny and Reuven's characters in this sequel to The Chosen.
These are not books that are fast-paced or "exciting", but you know you're encountering something of substance.The Promise is the story of Reuven's turmoil over finding his place among Jewish fundamentalists, moderates, and liberals.
Each position is well-represented by different characters and Reuven's dealings with each are informative.
In the end, Reuven is able to forge his own way, while elevating the importance of respect and tolerance for the viewpoints of others.
The concessions they made and would make to accommodate each other gave hope for the work Reuven would be undertaking.
