https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6316171-hate-list
“People do it all the time--assume that they "know" what's going on in someone else's head. That's impossible. And to think it's possible is a mistake. A really big mistake. A life-ruining one if you're not careful.”  This is the kind of story I was hoping for when I read This Is Where It Ends - a book that promised to delve into the darkness of school shootings, but never moved past a surface view of mindlessly evil shooter vs. poor victims. Hate List, on the other hand, is dark, psychological
This is the kind of story I was hoping for when I read This Is Where It Ends - a book that promised to delve into the darkness of school shootings, but never moved past a surface view of mindlessly evil shooter vs.
Hate List, on the other hand, is dark, psychological, sad and angering.So many things were running through my head while reading this upsetting novel.
This book breaks down the barriers between victim and villain, between the average teenager and one capable of doing something so horrific.Whenever school shootings happen, people always look for an answer to those same questions: what makes this kid different from everyone else?
This passage near the end of the book made me lose it (I'm not going to consider it a spoiler that you'll figure out the shooter killed himself because that happens a good portion of the time with these types of crimes, so it's something the majority of us would probably assume to be something that would happen) :Of course Ma would have wanted Nick remembered as a "Beloved Son." Of course she'd do it in the most laid-back way possible - whispering it to him in tiny letters on his headstone.
RATINGS: 4 STARS Hate List is one of the intriguing, catchy and compelling books which makes you think deeply about every side of a crime.
This book shows us different sides of a crime, a criminal and the society to emphasise that not everything can be categorised as good or bad.
The author tried her best to show that everyone isn't the stereotypical characters as we assume them to be.I couldn't connect to the book as much I wanted to.
Jeremy wasn't included in the rest of the book even though he was one of the characters who influenced Nick negatively.
Three words: Powerful, thought-provoking, & riveting.The story initially jumps between the actual shooting in May and then following September when, Valerie is preparing to head back to school.
Then it focuses on Valerie's senior year and the after math of the shooting itself.
It's definitely more of a character driven novel than plot driven, but for this particular situation it works really well.
It's just heartbreaking.This is definitely a topic that needs to be discussed and explored.A fantastically written, character driven novel, that you will not soon forget.
I'm so mad.Whiny heroine, whiny parents, whiny brother, whiny friends.
And why is she trying to force the idea that Nick was still a good guy even if he shot and killed several people?
She wasn't even the criminal and yet her family treats her like one.
What kind of parents are these?
And the heroine didn't report them to the police or to a social worker or something, to how they are treating her?
If my parents acted like this, I'd be running away.
Nobody deserves that kind of crap, especially from people who should automatically be by your side through thick and thin.

Everyone considers her to be the girlfriend of that killer, some even accuse her of having known about his plans, and nothing is going to make it easy for Valerie at her school.The social issue weighed heavily into this book, but apart from that, Valerie felt like a typical seventeen-year-old teenager to me, portrayed with almost the same character traits as all the other seventeen-year-old female protagonists in all those Young Adult novels out there.
That day when Nick decides to open fire on his school cafeteria killing those who were on the Hate List.
That list, which was written by him and his girlfriend Valerie, classified all those that used to torment them both during the school day.
several of them were shot by Nick until Valerie tries to stop the slaughter, inadvertently saves a classmate and ends up being shot in the leg in the process.
How to Valerie, the Hate List was a way to release herself as to Nick it was a list of potential target.
Valerie, our main protagonist was such an interesting character to read about, observing how she deals with the loss of her boyfriend, and her conflicting feelings as to whether it is right to love a 'monster.' Though Valerie's boyfriend, Nick - he shooter is dead, the book also carries his haunting voice throughout the book, which honestly gave me chills as I began to understand that he too, is a victim, a stupid, vulnerable victim.The structure of this book is also what made it so strong.
I feel so lucky that I got to read such a hauntingly beautiful book, and I believe that Valeries story of bravery and forgiveness, will stay with me for a long time.
A WISE MAN ONCE SAID.Oh, don't roll your eyes. He IS wise!▶   OVERVIEW    People hate. That's our reality. People hate and are hated and carry grudges and want punishments ... I don't know if it's possible to take hate away from people. Not even people like us, who've seen firsthand what hate can do. We're all hurting. We're all going to be hurting for a long time. And we, probably more than anyone else out there, will be searching for a new reality every day. A better one ... But in order to c
Now she has to return to those same halls and people who blame her for the crime which was committed, because Valerie's hate list was what prompted the high school shooting that marked a great change in the lives of the people of her hometown.Hate List is very nearly an excellent piece of work that dares to be honest, sensitive and consequential in it's themes.
So like the heading says, this was my very first book on the subject of highschool shooting, and I don't know if that should mean something.
HATE LIST is that kind of book.
This is what the author’s note says (in the back of the book): “Funny thing, I’ll bet if you asked ten readers what HATE LIST is about, they’d answer, ‘It’s about a school shooting.’ But for me, HATE LIST was never a story about a school shooting.
I want to bawl my eyes out, thinking about all this – because this book is about life.
The list didn’t start out as Valerie wanting to kill someone.
I mean, the book is about hate and everything, but gee, some of the characters made me loathe (see?
Eu ficava o tempo todo me colocando no lugar dela e no lugar das pessoas em volta e não conseguia decidir o que sentia.
A Jennifer conseguiu uma coisa muito difícil que é ser cruel com a protagonista sem reservas.
Eu ficava com pena da garota o tempo todo, porém via que era bem realista a forma que tudo era tratado.
Minha única questão com esse livro é que eu fiquei TÃO puto com os pais dessa menina, e acho que o livro acaba sem eles levarem um tapa forte na cara, que é o que eles mereciam.
Todo mundo foi tão nojento com ela e a garota só pedindo desculpa o tempo todo e sendo escurraçada.
It all tied nicely together and created one very good book.The ending was incredibly emotional and I felt tears prickling in my eyes as I was reading it.Hate List brings up some very interesting issues and I found it amazing to read how sometimes the smallest little things can escalate into something that becomes out of control.
I was also surprised about how sometimes people say things without thinking and then later these little things can become huge.I feel like I could go on forever about how much I loved Hate List.
This one made me teary eyed in places.It's a book that covers many difficult subjects and emotions, and there are definitely a lot of times where Valerie was a difficult character to follow, but man - her emotions, experiences - all felt very genuine and real to me.Val's parents were horrible.Listened to this via audiobook, beautifully narrated.Full review:Oh man, how on earth do I write a review on Jennifer Brown's "Hate List?" Honestly have no idea what took me so long to read this book.
Not the nice goodie two shoes we so often read about, not the one’s who cuss, sneak off with boys and fight with their parents, all the while possessing an adult-like intelligence and perspective on their life choices that far surpasses their years.
Valerie hasn’t walked into the commons since last May, on that fateful day that ended lives, including the life of her boyfriend, Nick.
I can’t help but think that the real individuals to blame for the tragedy within this book are the parents.
People do it all the time– assume that they know what's going on in someone else's head. That impossible. And to think it's possible is a really big mistake. A life-ruining one if you're not careful. The Hate List is about perception - how we can look at someone and see them as all bad or all good when they have tons beneath. Valerie perceived her boyfriend, Nick, as good – before he shot up their school. And everyone sees Valerie as bad, except for Jessica, the girl whose life Valerie saved. T
The Hate List is about perception - how we can look at someone and see them as all bad or all good when they have tons beneath.
In fact, as the author says herself, this book isn't about school shootings and trending topics.
I'll bet if you asked ten readers what Hate List was about, they'd say a school shooting.
But for me, Hate List was never about a school shooting.
So many books feel the need to insert a guy who can "teach the girl to love again", and in this case, I loved that Val just needed a friend.VERDICT: The Hate List is an amazing, character-driven exploration of overcoming trauma that avoids the normal tropes of ~recovery boys~.
“Just like there's always time for pain, there's always time for healing.”This was my second time reading Hate List and all I can say is that it was even better the second time around.
Hate List is the story of a girl--Valerie--who is struggling to put her life back together and to find healing after the traumatic events that occurred on May 2nd, 2008.
Through Valerie’s eyes we were able to see Nick, not as an evil boy with a gun, but as someone who was full of pain and suffering just like everyone else.
2) Con el corazón acelerado como si hubiera corrido cuando lo único que hice fue estar sentada leyendo.3) Con un nudo en la garganta.4) Mordiendome la lengua para no llorar.5) Con los ojos llorosos.6) Pensando "no llores, no llores, no llores..." lo que solo me recordaba por qué quería llorar en primer lugar.
Una cosa son esos al estilo "no me siento suficiente, ellos esperan algo de mi que no soy, no me aceptan como soy realmente ..." que ese es mi pan de cada día (pero, ¿no nos pasa eso a todos?) pero lo de Val y el padre.
Que deprimente y efímeros son los libros.
یک روز معمولی در مدرسه "نیک" دوست پسر "ولری" اسلحه ای در میاره و شروع می کنه به شلیک کردن.
مهم ترین حادثه اتفاق افتاده و ما با شوک بعد از اون شروع می کنیم, با تغییر هایی که این حادثه بزرگ ایجاد می کنه.
زندگی بعد از اتفاق همیشه از خودش سخت ترهولری خودش رو گم کرده و چقدر دوست داشتنی بود همراه شدن باهاش در این مسیر تا خودش رو پیدا کنه.
که نشون داد تصمیم گرفته تعصبات روی رفتار های گذشته رو رها کنهبه شدت دوست داشتم این کتاب رو در حدی که نصفش رو یک شبه خوندم.
They are on the rough side, and spur of the moment thoughts, but they are pretty accurate to what I picked up and felt at the time.Let's cut to the chase.Valerie' parents are pretty disgraceful.
To some he was the villain, a killer, whilst through Valerie' and Ginny' eyes we saw that there was also this angry young man who had lived a tough life, struggled with who he was, and was bullied by people who just pushed him to the edge.
There are things that I will probably always be conflicted on when it comes to the book, but as someone who came from a school filled with bullying I get it.
Does the Hate List ever get dismissed?It's been 25 years since I left the hell of high school social life and I still have the scar tissue..
People hate and are hated and carry grudges and want punishments.The news tells us that hate is no longer our reality.I don't know if it's possible to take hate away from people.
I can tell you that I am not a good enough person to say that after 25 years I didn't see all the same faces as I read through this book, that I didn't sympathize with the killer.
Of course, Valerie had no idea what Nick was plotting, but the other characters don’t benefit from Valerie’s internal monologue like the reader does, all they see is the cold, hard evidence, which admittedly is looking pretty bad for her.
Brown writes Valerie’s internal voice so well, and conveys her inner conflict and guilt so fluently, that Valerie never seems like a truly bad person, in fact, she’s as much a victim of Nick’s shooting as anyone.
I didn't personally know any of the victims of the recent school shooting, but it hit me hard and I was left wondering for days about the victims and their families.
Nick shoots up the school and Valarie is left to deal with her own guilt and the hate that everyone is giving her.
It wasn't just 'School shooting, The End.' It told the story of someone's life and their struggles of the past, present and ongoing future.
The themes of forgiveness, community and love were very strong in this book and I really loved that.This was such a deep and eye opening story that I really felt connected to.
She tried to highlight Nick's "good side," but he shot up a school.
Instead, I felt like Brown was playing Nick off as a "really good guy, just sad" instead of "this guy is considered a serial killer." I have a lot of interest in school shootings, specifically Columbine, and, to me, Nick was poorly written out.I felt detached as other readers have until the end.
I did enjoy her therapist during all his mentions and Bea, but the ending was the only part I can say I truly enjoyed about this book.
***SPOILER ALERT***Thought-provoking, sad and disarming, this book is a reflection on school shootings and the effects they have on the survivors.Val has been with Nick for 3 years and loves him, even though she's found him difficult to talk to recently.
Val finds herself trying to figure out whether or not she was the cause of the shootings, even though she was the one who stopped Nick at the end.I could not put this book down once I started it.
The author never sensationalizes the shootings and creates a fully-realized character in Val.Teens are going to eat this book up.
I'm not going to write massive amounts on this book, but put simply I would have easily given a 5 star review if it weren't for the confusing tense changes up until about half way through the novel.The second book of the year to make me cry, multiple times in fact. The story becomes so much more that what is represented at first glance, and it went to places that really reached out to me.Phenomenal read.
At first look, Hate List is a book about a school shooting and about the aftermath of that.
It paints the sad picture of a girl feeling guilty and responsible (the Hate List was written by both of them, as a way to vent frustration, and it contained the names of everyone who had ever been mean to them), of a girl who is torn between the image of a loving boyfriend and a cold blooded killer, forced to reconcile these two images, of a girl trying to heal, who pushes everyone away, because it’s easier to just let go, than try to make an effort.
I don't read YA novels because I'm an A and no longer Y but I read this one because life is pretty random, just like school shootings.
For instance, most of the school thinks Valerie was in cahoots with Nick, after all, she was his girlfriend and she wrote the famous hate List which is exposed to all by the police.
Yes there were a few things to complain about – for instance, Jennifer Brown, you need to check your head – please never again call your characters stupid names like Dr. Hieler (!) - and the shooting boyfriend is Nick Levil !!
How do you control the difference between feeling anger and acting on it?And when it is bullying that drives someone to do something like this, who receives the blame?After reading this book, I would say: a little bit of everyone.People are so used to seeing school shooters as two-dimensional, flat criminals or evil masterminds, but what Brown does is turn Nick into someone who is so layered and multifaceted so that readers don't only as Nick the shooter, but also as Nick the victim, Nick the boyfriend, and Nick the best friend.It is hard to imagine that they are not all cruel and heartless killers, but it's true - maybe they're just people who have been in pain for too long.But what doesn't change is that what they do hurts everyone - this book is a powerful reminder that these things happen, and that these things are real.School Shootings, misrepresentations in media, bullying - Brown touches up on so many issues in real life and she does it in an absolutely touching and captivating way.Oh, but one more thing.
School shooting is a topic of intense interest around the world, particularly in the United States where most have taken place. A thorough study of all United States school shootings by the U.S. Secret Service warned against the belief that a certain "type" of student would be a perpetrator. While it may be simplistic to assume a straightforward "profile", the study did find certain similarities among the perpetrators. The researchers found that:  killers do not 'snap'. They plan. They acquire w
A thorough study of all United States school shootings by the U.S. Secret Service warned against the belief that a certain "type" of student would be a perpetrator.
Their plan for restoration many times results in violence.
It is about Valerie, a student in Jnr High, who one day decides to start a list in a notebook.
The list is just a way to vent and release the pressures of life....or so Valerie thought....until one day Nick pulls a gun in the common room and starts to shoot those who appear on “the list”.
