https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782755.Holy_Disorders
The only trouble is that I haven’t at the moment the least idea who did it.’”I pity the Inspector that discovers that the eccentric, amateur, detective Gervase Fen has taken an interest in one of his cases.
Geoffrey Vintner, a composer by trade, who is interesting because Robert Bruce Montgomery, aka Edmund Crispin, is also a composer, receives a message from Gervase Fen to meet him in Tolnbridge immediately and to bring a butterfly net.
This is the second of nine mysteries that Crispin wrote featuring his Oxford don, Gervase Fen. They are witty, intriguing, hilarious, and loaded with literary references.
The plot is nonsensical and the characters largely unpleasant. As usual with Crispin, the main attraction is the prose.Vocabulary enhancement:oeillade: an amorous or suggestive glanceautology: the study of oneself preceptor: a teacher responsible to uphold a certain law or tradition (plus learning that Anglicans still have this as a clerical position)
Vintner, a mild mannered bachelor, also finds himself attacked, more than once, during the journey and matters are not improved when the eccentric (verging on rude) Fen seems not to even recall asking him to come once he does arrive!This is a murder mystery with a difference.
Edmund Crispin (pseudonym of Bruce Montgomery) had both his first detective novel and his first musical composition accepted while still an undergraduate at Oxford and you feel that he and Vintner had some things in common - including their love of church music and an ongoing debate about the loss of their bachelor state (Crispin married only two years before his death).
In Holy Disorders, Crispin uses comedy as the velvet glove to conceal the iron fist of the plot: it is 1939 after all, and everyone is keeping an eye out for enemy agents.
The comedy is the chief attraction, though, it reaches heights of glorious silliness that only a well-educated mind can concoct.
The scene where two amateur detectives are attempting to grill a suspect but keep quoting Poe at each other is a gem, as is Fen's response when asked the name of the knot he has proposed would allow a murderer to ascend a height and then climb back down and take his rope away with him.
Si bien el papel de Gervase Fen es fundamental, el protagonismo de ‘Asesinato en la catedral’ se lo lleva Geoffrey Vintner, organista y compositor, que parece un trasunto de Dr. Watson de segunda.
Y hasta allí que se desplace el bueno de Vintner, con más de una dificultad durante el trayecto.‘Asesinato en la catedral’ (Holy Disorders, 1946), del escritor británico Edmund Crispin (seudónimo de Bruce Montgomery), nos vuelve a ofrecer otra estupenda aventura del excéntrico Gervase Fen, profesor de literatura de Oxford y detective aficionado.
De nuevo Crispin nos ofrece una novela inteligente, donde hace uso de referencias a detectives y a la literatura en general, y no faltan algunos momentos de humor.
There are far too many minor characters, adding to the confusion with their "where were you when the lights went out" alibis.
Two men have died, for no real apparent reason.
Quite a promising beginning, but don't get your hopes up.(Query: Why would members of the clergy and their families consider a cathedral a "bad place to spend the night?" Is it not the consecrated house of God?
I kept getting lost in the crowd of characters, times, alibis, extraneous details and sub-threads, and I think the author did too.
Characters appear and disappear for no apparent reason.
He summons an acquaintance named Geoffrey Vintner to fill in for the organist and gets him hopelessly entangled in the sordid affair, which eventually includes two murders, numerous close calls, a spy ring, a black Mass and an angry assortment of insects set free at an opportune moment.Fen is perhaps my favorite literary mystery solver.
Like them, but better, particularly in the eccentric and quirky realms.Edmund Crispin was the pen name for Bruce Montgomery, a British composer who wrote his mystery stories on the side.
His stories are more parody than straight-forward mystery writing, and they all contain a certain amount of slapstick."Holy Disorders," however, may be my least favorite of the Gervase Fen stories.
Poco a poco impedimenta nos sigue trayendo las aventuras del detective Gervase Fen; en este caso, no hay que llevarse engaños, estamos posiblemente en el peor de los casos publicados pero, aun así, sigue estando bastante por encima de la media habitual de novelas policíacas. Además resulta un poco atípico ya que la trama está más centrada en asuntos de espionaje que en temas detectivescos, de ahí que resulte más de aventuras que noir. En el caso de Crispin resulta un hándicap y no está tan bien acabada como otros misterios suyos.
This is my favorite of the Crispin novels. He is an outstanding writer and deserves to be better known than he is.
A masterclass in English and so wonderfully written. It does plod along a little at times and at others I found I needed a dictionary at hand, but a decent read of the country in wartime.And a whodunnit which when arrives at the 'who' offers footnotes and references to the appropriate page for reminders. And it was certainly needed!
Son novelas detectivescas entretenidísimas y divertidísimas.Esta novela tiene probablemente el primer capítulo más divertido de todos los de la serie que he leído (siendo los otros "La juguetería errante" y "El misterio de la mosca dorada"), aunque también tiene una parte final que es más de tensión (con un poco de "thriller" incluso) y algo más oscura que las demás.
Es una novela detectivesca en forma, aunque algo menos rígida que "La mosca dorada", sin llegar a ser tan suelta como "La juguetería errante".El misterio es ingenioso y una vez te dan todas las respuestas, adviertes que en realidad todas las pistas estaban allí, y que yo (en este caso) no fui capaz de verlas.
Despite the title, this is a straight mystery with Crispin’s perfect ear for just the right word or phrase. I find his writing is like poetry, passages stick in my mind - “overzealous bee...dilatory swarm’ – to be rolled over my tongue at leisure.“..his taxi burrowed its way through the traffic outside Waterloo Station like an overzealous bee barging to the front of a dilatory swarm.”
2.75/5Hubo muchas partes aburridas y poco interesantes que me hicieron trabarme con la lectura varias veces, pero en general, hubo más que me gustaron. Así que me parecía injusto ponerle a este libro menos de 3 estrellas, teniendo en cuenta que, pese a sus fallos, en términos generales, me gustó.
But it is the setting makes this Golden Age murder mystery special.Edmund Crispin (in real life Bruce Montgomery) was an organist at St. John's College, Oxford and a composer in his own right.
Only somebody who was intimately familiar with that environment could have written this book.In addition to the cathedral architecture and the associated clergy, we learn a good deal about the gruesome history of the town, and a get a close look at the sedate housewives who play at Satanism between shopping trips.
Nobody but Edmund Crispin could pack so much comedy into a novel – and wrap it around a multi-threaded murder mystery.
I thought this would be a win for me because I really enjoyed the other book I've read by him, The Moving Toyshop.
That book is quirky and witty with lots of English wordplay and a murder that involves an entire store disappearing and reappearing overnight.
This one started out great, following Geoffrey Vintner who is ordered by his friend, Oxford professor and self-important detective Gervaise Fen, to come to a village outside of London to substitute for a church organist who was nearly murdered.
Someone or several someones then start attacking Geoffrey, before he's even left town.
Oxford don, Gervase Fen, is eccentric, sarcastic, absent-minded, childish and vain--as well as utterly delightful.
Edmund Crispin, the pseudonym of Robert Bruce Montgomery, first began to write mystery stories featuring Gervase Fen because of a bet.
The rumor is that Gervase Fen is based on Oxford professor, W.E. Moore and this book, like Crispin's others, is full of references to English literature, poetry, and music.
Set in the World War II era, there is a murder of a cathedral organist and Fen dives right in to figure out what happened.
Fen, of course, is miles ahead of everyone else and impatient with them as they try to catch up.
An Oxford professor Gervase Fen amateur detective mystery. Fen is an eccentric character given to outbursts and sarcasm directed at those who are unable to follow his reasoning and interpreting of clues. This story involves two murders, one of which appears to have been impossible, and quite a cast of characters who are associated with the Church of England. In some ways, a fun read while the Fen character can get on your nerves.
Can't say I liked this one. It lacked a lot of the humour which is a Crispin trademark and I found the motivations of the murder implausible. Still, it had its moments. Even ordinary Crispin is a good read.
Tan genial como el resto de libros protagonizados por Gervase Fen.
Laughed until I cried on this one, and loved the mystery, too. I read this years and years ago, and looked for it ever since. I'm looking forward to a good reread soon.
After reading it, I have to say it was fun, but a little confusing.Holy Disorders starts when Geoffry Vinter (a composer) is summoned by his friend and amateur detective Gervase Fen to bring a butterfly net to Tolnbridge.
What starts out as a case of bodily injury turns into one murder, then two, and Geoffry finds himself the reluctant assistant to an enthusiast Gervase.This was definitely a fun book - all the characters are delightfully zany and the plot is over the top in a good way.

There rose to meet them as they came in, Garbin and Spitshuker still engaged in surreptitious altercation, a little old man of phenomenal thinness, with a sharp nose, small beady eyes which never for more than a moment held your own, and a crown of sparse and wispy white hair - Sir John Dallow, Chancellor of the Cathedral.
But whereas in Spitshuker these were signs of energy, in Dallow, they appeared more as neurotic excitement.
Looking at the two men, Geoffrey could think of no better comparison between them than that Dallow was an angle, and Spitshuker a curve; probably, he thought with amusement, that was due as much to the difference between their figures as to anything else."
Just a few things to note:1. I think it's interesting that another reviewer comments that the characters are largely unpleasant, as is often the case with Crispin. I find the opposite. They're usually middle-class caricatures that, I suppose, might be quite annoying if you came across them in real life, but on the page I find them quite funny and likeable.2. This novel sits comfortably between The Gilded Fly and Th Moving Toyshop in both chronology and quality. It's a marked step-up from the former, but nowhere as refined as the latter. But that's OK! It's still great.

With unending musical and literary references, the dialogue is amusing. There is one laugh-out-loud section in which protagonists recite a poem unknown to the butt of the joke. If I included a spoiler, you would understand how that is funny. You will just have to take my word for it. Here are a couple of random quotes. Someone bargaining with the final judgment wanted to take "a front seat at the celestial entertainment." Another character biting off more than he could chew had a "sail ... too big for his boat.
Argh, so torn about this book, written in 1945! On one hand, so much screwball comedy and offhand humour that I'll be laughing for a month. On the other hand, definitely misogynistic, though quite hard on most of the men too. Detective fiction featuring an impossibly ill mannered brilliant professor from Oxford, usually featuring a likeable young male sidekick. This one has spies, religion, music and witchcraft stirred up together. Likeable, but...
If you've seen my other reviews you'll have heard this before but - the primary villain was obvious from the start in spite of Crispin's attempts at obfuscation. I don't hold that against him though as his writing is a delight, the setting and characters are right up my alley, and I never read for the plot in any case. All in all, jolly good fun.
A little dark, with odd touches of the paranormal, but engaging, self-deprecating, and dripping with literary and other cultural references from the period. There are a lot of passing Anglican/Episcopal and musical references, so if you move in either of those worlds, you'll feel like an insider.
Why is Gervase Fen hardly in Gervase Fen mysteries? I call for more. This one was well written just not as interesting.
