https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76973.The_Secret_Warning
Another Hardy's adventure - this time on scary Whalebone Island with ghost stories, a treasure map, sunken treasure and a Pharoah's head in gold! The boys go skin diving and save their kidnapped dad once again. Ok, so the ad at the end for the next book was annoying, but nonetheless this was a great story!
More of the same...which isn't a bad thing.
One of the best in the series so far! Very exciting, I love how the author incorporated the part about the Egyptian statue! Would recommend to any mystery lovers!
"Jumping Jupiter!" "Leaping lizards!" "Sufferin' snakes!" Joe has a pretty colorful vocabulary in this particular Hardy Boys book!
great!!!
I see that most people who reviewed this book were reviewing the revised text story.
Soon the Hardy Boys get a chance to do some diving with Perry on a ship that was sunk "during the War"- that would be World War I since #2 hadn't happened yet in this 1938 book.
Then when a member of the diving team, who owns a new x-ray type camera, is injured, the owner of the diving company allows the Hardy Boys to take over its use.
However, there are some really bad guys out to harm the boys in this book.
But what I liked about it is Frank and Joe's braveness and smartness, and of course, most important thing, brotherly love!
My favourite part was when they were in Philadelphia to find their father and when they were staying at a hotel, someone knocked Joe down and he got dazed and then Frank helped him.
That was my favourite part.
I know I probably said this like about a million times but my favourite thing about the Hardy Boys is brotherly love.
That's why I love reading them so much!
:) I just LOOOOOOOVE brotherly love.
The Secret Warning by Franklin W. Dixon was my new favorite of all of the Hardy Boy books that I have read so far. Frank and Joe had recently read about a sinking off the coast of Whalebone Island. They read that two ships ran into each other one was carrying a golden pharaohs head worth 1,000,000 dollars. The owner of it Mr.Zuphar was outraged with the incident. Mr.Zuphar phoned the Hardy's to solve the case. The Hardy's agreed to the terms and started the mystery that cause explosions, break ins and the reviving of violent legend.
This is yet another nautical Hardy Boys adventure that has Frank, Joe and Chet racing around in the Sleuth and flying up and down the East Coast to track down a missing Egyptian artifact. It's amazing how much the Hardy Boys uncover, while Fenton and Sam Radley work on the same mystery and accomplish almost nothing. I guess that is what make the Hardy Boys great.
Nice.
My book is The Hardy Boys The Secret Warning by FRANKLIN W. DIXON. Lexile is 780. This brief summary is about my book, This book is about 2 boys and their father in the 1950s and they are on a hunt to find this golden pharaoh's head and there is a ghost playing tricks on them. Then they end up getting the head anyways because they stole it back from these bad guys. I would recommend this book to 7th and 8th grade students especially if your a mystery fan i am. This book isn't half bad it's actua
A specific part in the book is when they are on whalebone island and the ghost is playing tricks on them and they split up and one of the people they were with traded on them “I think we should split up, why because so we can look for this person playing tricks on us, okay let's do it the hardy boys go this way i'll go this way”.(pg.67)	I think a lot of people should read this book because it is a good book the way the author put it together because one thing will happen and while they are investigate it something else happens to them it's kinda funny because they go back and forth.
The Hardy Boys: The Secret Warning The Secret Warning was an decent book to read. It was written by Franklin W. Dixon. After reading it I didn't think that it was an amazing book. It had a lot of good, cool things in it but the overall storyline wasn't amazing. He did do a good job at making the places realistic and he made it seem alive. It was set on a realistic island named Whale Bone.This story was about the Hardy Boys out on another mission. They had to skin diving to find the pharaohs head
The Hardy Boys: The Secret Warning	The Secret Warning was an decent book to read.
After reading it I didn't think that it was an amazing book.
It had a lot of good, cool things in it but the overall storyline wasn't amazing.
It was set on a realistic island named Whale Bone.This story was about the Hardy Boys out on another mission.
But overall it wasn't the best story line, for me anyway.My recommendation for age groups would be 12-16 years, but anyone can read it if they really want to.
Frank and Joe end up deep in a mystery surrounding a Pharaoh's head that apparently sunk close to Bayport, and must find the truth before it can be stolen! Dixon is sure to have young readers glued to the pages in this entry!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This book is awesome!If you like the Hardy Boys series, then you'll absolutely love this book. This Hardy Boys book is scary but funny at the same time. If you like the Hardy Boys is about the boats then this is the Hardy Boys book for you.
wow was this one intense....Language, Abuse and Lust: 5 stars
There wasn't really much of a secret warning in this book... but I liked the diving. Overall pretty fun.
(Please see my review of House on the Cliff. Same comments apply.)
Another typical Hardy Boys mystery ... but this one I had trouble following. Might have been other distractions, but usually I can read them straight thru and follow the "bad guys" but this one seemed to wander more than most.
I continue to be amazed that despite having read many of these stories with my vibrant 4th and 5th grade brain, not a single plot line or event from any story remains in my middle-aged memory. Perhaps they are that forgettable.
The owner of the million dollar golden Pharaoh’s head claimed it was aboard the Freightor katawa which sank not too far from Whalebone Island.
According to legend Whalebone Island was haunted by a blood thirsty pirate by the name of (Red Roger), however Joe and Frank hardy followed by their friend Chet went to investigate while their father searched for clues.
After arriving at the island they were attacked by a figure in which they managed to wound they got as far as they could while the figure was recovering
Have to read another one in the future to see if my impression changes but, right now,I can say I liked it. I know it is geared towards teens and up but found it a littl on the basic end of things as far as plot goes. It was predictable and I like a book I can really get into. One that makes me think.
Pretty fun story, interesting plot, but of course the are to perfect.
read when I was 10 through 13
SM
Another great Hardy boys mystery.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
I liked the revised edition better.
Dixon, Franklin W.
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
