https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36373647-when-life-gives-you-lululemons
Lauren Weisberger sure knows how to write a trendy book with surprisingly deep social commentary on the insecurity underlying all of the glitz, glamour, and money without being overly critical of anyone who subscribes to that lifestyle.
Emily, Miriam, and Karolina find themselves banished to Greenwich at the same time, and they may be the exact combination of people needed to take on the threats to all of their lives!
With a lululemon-clad mom-squad, and secret sex toy parties in glittering Greenwich mansions, Emily, Karolina, and Miriam will find a way to help one another like no one but a former assistant of Miranda Priestley could!ReflectionThis book was exactly what I needed at just the right time!
4.5 hilarious laugh out loud stars🎉This was a seriously funny, and slightly irreverent look motherhood, the suburbs, and how life changes with age.
Throw in a juicy scandal and it’s all good fun!
Emily is back and funnier than ever - I love her and her seriously snarky, blunt personality.
And who can’t love a cameo from The Devil, Miranda Priestly, herself?This is a story of female friendship and how women supporting one another can get you through anything.
And now I’m off to go watch The a Devil Wears Prada because it’s been too long and I don’t want to say goodbye just yet!
4 limoncello* stars to When Life Gives You Lululemons!
A successful image consultant in her own right, and set in perfectly coifed Greenwich, Connecticut, everyone is talking about the new neighbor, Emily.
And now enter, Karolina Hartwell, the former face of L’Oreal on whom Emily has her sights set.
Karolina has gotten into some trouble, and she needs Emily to bury it.
Emily is a strong woman and a force.
When Life Gives You Lululemons is a smart look at women coming together when times are tough and building each other up.
When Life Gives You Lululemons will be available on June 5, 2018.
but when supermodel Carolina gets her self in some trouble Emily heads to Greenwich, Connecticut....
Emily, Carolina, and Miriam, lawyer turned stay at home mom, bond together to fight the charges and the other mothers of Greenwich...The story is told from all three points of view...
filled with all the Snark, fun,and laugh out loud moments of the first book....Absolutely recommend as a fun beach read or an escape from reality during the heat of summer☀️*** many thanks to Simon & Schuster for my copy of this book ***
This book is an engaging read full of scandal, drama, and humor featuring suburbanites and wealthy stay-at-home moms.Emily Charlton was Miranda Priestly's assistant in The Devil Wears Prada, in this book she has moved on from Runaway magazine life and into image consulting in Hollywood.
Miriam used to be a successful and overworked attorney who now finds herself a stay-at-home mom in Greenwich.
The lives of these three women converge and the novel manages to tackle female friendship, marriage, and body-image issues while maintaining a breezy and lighthearted tone.The story is told from the alternating points of view of Emily, Miriam, and Karolina and takes place in Greenwich, Connecticut.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I had ZERO intentions on ever reading this when it kept appearing on both my GR and Instagram feeds. While I’ll give props where they are due admit that title is über catchy and 5-Star worthy all by its lonesome, merely the mention of the word “Lululemon” tends to make me a little . . . . .  But then I saw that it was a DWP follow-up and featured EMILY no less. God how I loved bitchy Emily . . . . .  And it reminded me of all the book-
Okay, so the story here is about Emily who has made her way from the first assistant’s desk at Runway to a “Rachel Zoe” of sorts who not only makes her clients look good, but covers their tracks when they do things that make them look bad.
Apparently I’ve matured a little as well because I sort of found Emily to be insufferable for quite a good chunk of this third go ‘round.
Probably some wrongreading happened, but seriously there was zero chance my cold dead heart was going to go for that ending.Still an absolute delightful trip down memory lane for me and one I’ll happily round my 3.5 Stars UP rather than down for a change.ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

If you’re new to this series you’ll still love it, it’s not necessary to have read the previous books but they’re all fun so you should.You have three points of view here; Emily, Karolina and Miriam.
It’s scandalous, emotional, hilarious and compulsive, I can’t think of the last time I had so much fun with a book.Grab this one and head to a pool with a cocktail and be prepared to devour it in one sitting, theglitz will dazzle you and the drama will shock you and make you laugh, the ideal light read for summer is here!When Life Gives You Luluemons in three words: Delicious, Scandalous and Witty.
I DID read Weisberger's The Singles Game back in 2016 and absolutely loved it so was THRILLED when this copy came in the mail for me!This book brings in Emily, Miranda Priestley's ex-assistant, as an image consultant to the stars who is losing popularity to a younger version who is more in tune with today's social media which makes her start to question herself.
This somersaults into political and social devastation and now she must count on her friends to help her through this horrible situation.What I absolutely love about this story is the coming together of these three very different women as they bond and figure their lives out.
I don’t think novels like When Life Gives You Lululemons are for me.
Actually, I don’t think novels like When Life Gives You Lululemons are very entertaining anymore.
Novels like When Life Gives You Lululemons only perpetuate negative body stereotypes, and I feel like they have no place in this world anymore.The thing is, while I suspect Lauren Weisberger is mocking the Greenwich community for its first-world, one-percenter problems, I am not certain this is the case.
But I cannot ignore the way When Life Gives You Lululemons made me feel both while reading and after I finished it.
This was my first book by Lauren Weisberger and I enjoyed every minute of reading it! I laughed and I cursed with Emily, Miriam and Karolina, like a was their friend. I loved how the story is told from their different perspectives. I have the two first books of the series somewhere in my house, and I need to find them, I don’t want to leave these characters for too long, I loved them too much! Thanks to the publisher for my e-copy through NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Let's just say if I were older I'd have liked this book very much.
It’s light (but not too light!), breezy and the perfect beach read.
As a matter of fact, that is exactly where I read this book, cover to cover.
The story is told in alternating viewpoints of Emily, Miriam and Karolina, and all three had their own storyline, as well as the one they have together.
Their friendship and growth are heartwarming and I cannot recommend this book enough.
If you loved TDWP or a simply just a fan of Chick lit or Women’s Fiction, I highly recommend this book.
It is warm, funny, smart and Emily can certainly carry a story.
This is my first book by Lauren Weisberger. These housewives are over the top!! But it was a fun read and let’s you see how the “other side” lives! Lol I really loved Emily’s character - she was witty and had some great off the top statements to make!! She didn’t care who heard it - she just told it like it was! I received this ARC from the publisher through NetGalley. All opinions expressed are my own.
It’s basically poolside trash.
Over-the-top absolute trash.
Soo much sex talk it’s obnoxious.
Sex toy parties, self medicating with pills and alcohol, wandering eyes, mistrust, and one chapter entitled “Home to the Custom Fit Vagina.” I actually feel dumber for reading it (although I ended up skimming 2/3 of the way through just to find out the resolution).
Not recommended at all even to die-hard Devil Wears Prada fans (and actually the only connection is that Emily Charlton is a main character ten years older and Miranda Priestly appears only as a peripheral character.)
5 JUICY stars!! 🍋 This was fabulous, it had me LOL’ing from all it’s snark and humor throughout the book - loved it! Even so this is a total women empowerment book and I loved every page of this summer sizzler about Emily, Miriam and Karolina on motherhood, the suburbs and it’s smart take on how life changes with age. And let’s also not forget the juicy scandals rockin’ around Greenwich. Chick Lit isn’t my usual genre but very happy I picked this up!
Emily Charlton has a successful image consultant business with many celebrities in her speed dial.
Having left 'Runway' and Miranda Priestly behind, she is enjoying her new life.
There she meets Karolina Hartwell, who has been hiding out in the suburbs since her DUI arrrest.
I have not read the book but knowledge of it is not necessary to enjoy this installment.
Having recently read books with more solemn tones, I was looking for some fun and entertainment.
From viewing parties and over-the-top birthday celebrations for toddlers to risque adult night life, the Lululemon-wearing suburb moms are a fearsome group.
Emily Charlton---the same Emily who worked for Miranda Priestly (in The Devil Wears Prada)---is now a publicity manager to the stars.
While Emily sorts out the suspicious situation in Greenwich, she also gets the opportunity to visit with her longtime friend (and former hotshot lawyer, now a stay-at-home mom), Miriam.
*   *   *   *   *There are (apparently) a whole series of books starring characters from The Devil Wears Prada.
Emily is such a great character---sassy and surprising, inappropriate and almost completely unapologetic.
Have you ever finished a string of dark and emotional reads and felt like a book that is lighter - one that will make you laugh rather than cry?
The story alternates perspectives between three women: Emily, Miriam and Karolina.
Miriam is a Harvard educated lawyer turned stay-at-home wife who is trying to fit in with the other glamor mamas while instilling good values in her 3 young children.
When Karolina is stopped by police while driving her son and his friends and charged with a DUI, things start to go downhill for her.
Secrets emerge and her friend Miriam comes to her aide bringing along Emily for support.
Her BFF, Marion has recently relocated to Greenwich, CT and left her career to be a full time stay at home mom to her three children.
As she and Emily mobilize to defuse the situation, all kinds of crazy hijinks ensue, taking the reader on a super entertaining, girl-powered ride.WHAT I LOVEDIt would be impossible for me to not to have fun reading this book!
I hope none of it’s exaggerated, I love to think that somewhere a group of bored housewives sit in a perfectly decorated living room each week, decked out in their workout clothes, being waited on by a uniformed housekeeper day drinking mimosas.
This is what gives ‘chick-lit’ a bad name. I admit I adored Emily in The Devil Wears Prada as played by actress Emily Blunt. This is Weisberger’s third offering in that series and I was looking forward to laughing at Emily’s antics once again. Unfortunately, that didn’t happen. The characters were more like caricatures than actual human beings. They were superficial and very self-centered. Who wants to read about that—not me.
This latest title in the DEVIL series can definitely be read as a stand-alone, but for those devoted series readers like me, there are welcome cameos by and references to characters in the previous books - yay!
This book is straight up SNARKY and hilarious and should 100% be taken with a grain of salt.......I'm hypersensitive to body shaming and dieting in books, and while this is NOT a book that models healthy behaviors, I can more than recognize the humor and ridiculousness that is the reality for too many women in our world today.
Ugh. I really dislike all of the mentions of empty calories and fat shaming. I’m over it and won’t continue to waste my time. Oh and guess what? I also don’t like the notion that stay at home moms are lesser than. Gross.
Not really even 3= a little less than meh. I was very much looking forward to this one, but ... Maybe I have ODed on "Mom Com", but I felt "Oh come on already" during several parts of this novel. There were also several parts I enjoyed, but not quite enough.
http://www.chicklitcentral.com/2018/0...Giveaway included!
Emily is as snarky and rude as ever and her life professional life is falling apart.
Then there is Karolina, a supermodel married to a senator.
All aspects of her life are falling apart.
Miriam thinks her husband might be having an affair.
Karolina’s husband is having a very public affair and Emily has a husband that travels a ton and Emily likes to flirt.
I’m sure there are a lot of women like that in the world.
I really felt for Karolina.
She just wants to be a Mom. If you liked The Devil Wears Prada, you will enjoy this book.
3.5 Stars - An entertaining addition to the Devil Wears Prada series that doesn't quite live up to the charm of the first book.
I listened to this on audiobook, which certainly influenced my opinion.
The narrator did a decent job tackling the voices of Karolina, Miriam, and Emily, but I might have enjoyed it more if I had read without that influence.
The three women are entertaining characters and it was hilarious hearing about the lives of the Greenwich elite.
However, I couldn't exactly mesh this Emily with her character from the first book.
A fun listen that I didn't have to think too much about.. really enjoyed it, nice change from murders and thrillers
I've got to say, I'm loving this current trend of bringing beloved characters back to life!
I absolutely loved being reacquainted with Emily Charlton from The Devil Wears Prada.
In When Life Gives You Lululemons, Emily is a high-powered image consultant to the stars.
Her best friend Miriam introduces her to a friend of hers, Karolina, who is going through a crisis of her own and Emily is enlisted to help.
Karolina is declaring her innocence but her life is falling apart.
I loved this trio and hope we have more of them in the future!
When Life Gives You Lululemons hits shelves June 5th!
And it is actually relevant to the story.I think that many people will wonder whether this book can be read as a standalone.
However, IMO I think that it is important to know the basic story of The Devil Wears Prada.
There are three third person narrators: Emily, Miriam and Karolina.The cross-over character from The Devil Wears Prada is Emily.
This is the main focus of the book.I really loved all three of these women.
If you love Chick Lit and are looking for something fun and funny this is a great read.
