https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82870.A_Speedy_Death
The Mystery of a Butcher’s Shop is the second book in a series which spanned 66 novels featuring Mrs Beatrice Adela Lestrange Bradley – psychoanalyst and amateur sleuth.
Guests include Garde’s father Mr Alastair Bing, his sister Eleanor, Garde’s fiancée Dorothy, his friend Bertie Philipson, who has also hoped to marry Dorothy, the naturalist Carstairs and explorer Everard Mountjoy.
When the matter is investigated, Mountjoy is found dead in the bath – but instead of a man, a woman’s body is found.Carstairs insists it is murder and he teams up with Mrs Bradley to discover who killed the now, Miss Mountjoy.
This was glorious. Why do I never get invited to house parties where someone is murdered? Why don't I know any frivolous young men named Bertie?
Gladys Mitchell's Mrs. Bradley could not be more different-- and it took me half the book to get Diana Rigg out of my head!Gladys Mitchell's Mrs. Bradley is old, small, and the words used to describe her are "bird" (think vulture, not songbird), "reptile," and "dinosaur." She doesn't go out of her way to converse with others, wears tatty clothes, and wears her eccentricity like a badge of honor.
She's definitely the type of character I want to know more about, so I'll be reading more in the series.
Horrifying!Eleanor goes on to attempt 2 more murders that are avoided because Mrs Bradley moves the women she knows will be victims to her own room.
At the end Eleanor is murdered and there's a big trial where Mrs Bradley is arrested and you sort of think well she has to be innocent cause she's our hero right?
It's bizarre - that she's presented as bad at least partly because of her looks but her redemption is murdering someone.All the characters except Dorothy, Carstairs and Inspector Boring are pretty horrible honestly.
Vintage have republished four of her Mrs Bradley novels – the others are The Longer Bodies, Devil at Saxon Wall and Here Comes a Chopper – and have sixteen of her other titles available via their print-on-demand service.Speedy Death opens with a young woman, Dorothy Clark, being chastised by her brother because she has appeared at the country house, to which many have been invited, on a far later train than she originally specified: ‘Our brother in the front row has been trying to get through to Paddington to find out whether you’d been rendered dead in the buffet through eating one of their ham sandwiches’, he tells her.
-Gladys Mitchell, Speedy Death Gladys Mitchell’s first published novel, Speedy Death (1929), takes place in an English country house, a classic setting familiar to readers of “Golden Age” murder mysteries.
Mrs. Lestrange Bradley, the author’s eccentric and most enduring character, makes her first audacious appearance in Speedy Death.
To describe Mrs. Bradley, Mitchell employs an old Scottish word: ‘eldritch’ (meaning weird or hideous).
She joins forces with fellow house party guest Carstairs to solve the mystery of Mountjoy’s death.
Speedy Death is a first novel of an author then only in her mid twenties.
The darkly sharp insights of Mrs. Bradley (not to mention her extremely wicked tongue) serve to spice the goings-on rather nicely, as we ramble from room to room in the large old house, amongst the peculiar denizens and their personal demons.
Dutiful daughter Eleanor is, herself, quite a piece of work, and even sweet Dorothy has a few interesting bits; the males tend to show up as either lumpy brutes or intellectual-but-otherwise-dim bores, although there are one or two that seem nice, if a bit lost among all the mayhem.
It has a couple of surprising twists, but they work only if one assumes the novel is set somewhere significantly distanced from the real world.I gave Mitchell a try a few decades ago, and was sufficiently scarred by the experience that I've steered clear of her ever since.
More recently, though, I've come across a few favorable mentions of her work, even including the suggestion that she should supplant Ngaio Marsh as one of the four Crime Queens, so thought I'd give her another try.More fool me.I have another of her books in the house and so, sucker for punishment that I am, I'll likely pick it up at some point.
I let myself get excited about this book because it starts with a dead body belonging to the wrong sex: the explorer Everard Mountjoy was in fact a woman!
Neither the friends of the deceased nor the police as much as speculate about why Mountjoy chose to masquerade as a man, or how she succeeded.
Just get this: Eleanor killed Mountjoy because, after having forced the explorer to propose to her, she was shocked to discover Mountjoy was a woman.
Then Mrs Bradley coolly poisons Eleanor to prevent the embittered spinster to bump off all the pretty girls in her vicinity.
I discovered Gladys Mitchell from Gav of GavReads and she did not disappoint.
She is visiting friends when two murders occur and while some of the characters were not fleshed out, the story hooked me and Mrs. Bradley's investigative skills owe a little to Sherlock Holmes.
The motive for the second murder is a little creepy, but the novel was written in 1929, so it might have seemed more appropriate back then.
I am looking forward to reading the next in the series and a thank you to Gav for bringing Gladys Mitchell to my attention!
This is the first of many novels featuring an amateur sleuth who is also a psychoanalyst (although it is really hard to see how this progresses, given the outcome).
The most interesting, and under- explored, thing is that the first victim, thought to be a man, turns out to be a woman living as a man who has got engaged to the daughter of the house, apparently without the said daughter realising.
No reason is given for the lifestyle and deception (but strangely enough I do know of a later case of this happening, ca.
The whole thing is rather strange.
Very lightweight, but enjoyable story with some really quite eye-opening twists that - when thought about - should make us question quite a few of our assumptins about the 1920's. My only complain was the awful canned laughter they kept using for Mrs. Bradley at very xodd moments.
The first Mrs. Bradley, and I'm already annoyed that these aren't better known these days.
It keeps more closely to the tenets of the detective genre of this era (first published 1929, during the Golden Age of Crime), so the story is tighter and more focused (if there is one thing that I don't enjoy about Mitchell's mysteries is her tendency to ramble).
Except for the One Major Thing, but she alludes pretty freely to that throughout her other stories, so I think if you've read any other Mrs Bradley's, you will take this in stride.
Reading classic mysteries, you often come up against attitudes that are pretty shocking.
First she is a female amateur detective at a time when the detective genre was almost exclusively male and second Mrs Bradley is a bit, well odd.
In typical Golden Age style, a few more bodies pile up, things twist and turn and amongst the mayhem frequent dashes of humour are spilled and then it ends with one final twist of the knife and a good one at that.Yes, I particularly liked the ending, so I will add a few more Gladys Mitchells to my unending stack of books to be read and continue to look forward to my task.

Very odd book, which is exactly what I said about the first Michell I read, The Mystery of a Butcher's Shop.
It's very eccentric and sometimes frankly absurd (the identity of Mountjoy is preposterous) but it's still compelling.
There's a lot of ethical problems in this book which are very casually addressed (the final confession is disturbing - what are we supposed to do with that?) Mitchell has a lot of personality but I feel her books suffer from a clear lack of consistency and general tightening of the plot, it's too all over the place.
Still, she's a very interesting author.
I can't really decide how much I liked this book. A Speedy Death is the first of a mystery series. It is not the typical formula for a who-done-it. Mrs. Bradley is a quirky character, much more proactive than most (if not all) of the lead characters in mystery series. I'm going to have to read more of the series to decide about the birdlime, catlike, reptilian Mrs. Bradley.
One of those books that is a little too cute to be a straight-forward mystery and a little to sober to be a farce. Lots of complicated twists and turns, red herrings and second guesses, but in the end, not very satisfying to read.
I've tried two in the series. I like the Mrs Bradley character, but there's a lot of focus on who did what and when; probably good if you like trying to solve the mystery, but it was a little much for me.
Though I deduced the solution to this mystery well before the end, I thoroughly enjoyed watching the story work itself out. I'll be reading more of these!
Bettie's Books
This one saw her opportunity and took it.”--Before I begin, I'd just like to clarify that this novel is about the murder of a transgender man, and that's why I added the trigger warning.
Overall, I was extremely pleased with how everything turned out, despite my initial disappointment.I think my favourite part about the book was Mrs. Bradley herself.
I love the use of psychoanalysis, I always found that concept to be really interesting, and I love that Mrs. Bradley was a psychoanalyst herself.Overall, it was a great, unconventional novel that still has a really great mystery at the centre of its plot.
For some reason, Mitchell has fallen off the radar while the other two grand dames of classic British mysteries are going strong.
I definitely plan to read more of this series and am sad that her books are not easily available.
Still, it's sad for Mitchell that one can find Christie everywhere but the reaction to her is "Who?".This book starts off in fine classic form.
I was truly surprised which is a great thing to be when reading the mystery genre.I hope the next books in the series(I found a few online at Thriftbooks) are as clever as this one turned out to be.
This is a very strange book.
I'm not sure what to make of it.First, the murder victim has a secret--that's fine, they often do.
But it's a big secret.
And kind of a weird secret.
And the book never resolves it.
They're not snowed in, trapped on a boat, etc., there's absolutely no reason for them to stay at this country house and potentially be picked off one after the other, but stay they do.I enjoyed the characterization of Mrs. Bradley (which was why I picked up the book in the first place, she'd sounded interesting elsewhere), but whoa, there are some serious problems here.Bumped up from 2.5 to to 3 stars because it's very old and may have seemed more sensible when written.(Note: 5 stars = amazing, wonderful, 4 = very good book, 3 = decent read, 2 = disappointing, 1 = awful, just awful.
Unlimited free trial | I tend to give the first book in a long-running series a little leeway, because I think it's legitimate for an author to take some time to settle into her groove with the characters and such.
I don't see that it can be called a mystery, since there was only one suspect all the way through, no red herrings were dangled, no attempt at misdirection.
After having just finished six Georgette Heyer mysteries, I was unendingly grateful not to have any of her awful "colourful characters" and just have people with human foibles and traits.
Mrs. Bradley is not like other Golden Age detectives, that's for sure.
It was certainly an unlikeable assortment of characters - not uncommon in Golden Age mysteries, especially those of the "house party" set up, but this bunch was certainly on the more extreme end.
The culprits and twists weren't immediately obvious to me, which was nice, but dealing with this assortment of unlikeable folk was not an enjoyable ride.And on a personal note, I've enjoyed the BBC series.
Which stars Diana Rigg as Mrs. Bradley.
And Diana Rigg is nothing at all like the Mrs. Bradley of the novels, who is described as short, shriveled, and compared to a pterodactyl.
I heard ages ago that Gladys Mitchell and Mrs. Bradley (her creation) had a reputation as the oddball-weirdo of the Detective Club Lady Mystery Authors, which makes me want to like her. So far though, I've been pretty underwhelmed. I bought a handful of them though, so I'll keep trying. I do think that it probably doesn't help that I watched the Masterpiece Mystery series and loved it and despaired that it was so short but Diana Riggs Mrs. Bradley (very proto-Phyrne Fisher) has almost nothing in common with Mitchell's.
Surprisingly fun for a mystery from the 1920s. Mrs. Bradley looks nothing like Diana Rigg, who portrayed her on TV, and is a somewhat irascible spirit who observes the psychology of those around her as she deduces what has happened. I’ve been reading a lot of mysteries from the British Golden Age this year. Gladys Mitchell is an author who has been, sadly, somewhat lost to time. She deserves a second chance.
I'll give this 1929 story 4 1/2 stars! Charming and witty English country house murder mystery. Mrs. Bradley, who is the star of 66 more novels, isn't at all like Diana Rigg, who portrayed her in the TV series ... she's even better. She's a "Little, old, shrivelled, clever, sarcastic sort of dame. Would have been smelt out as a witch in a less tolerant age." Not much to look at, but has a mind like a steel trap.Well written, well paced with a bit of a surprise at the end. Great fun!
