https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1876770.Chrzest_ognia
In the previous book Geralt's POV ended with him getting beaten the crap out of, in a really bad way.
In the beginning of this book he did not recovered, but he really had no time for full recovery as he needed to finish what he was trying to do before he was stopped.
Yennefer had very little screen time - practically a couple of pages, but it was very exciting to read them.
Second, as the result she ended up being very pissed off and she has enough competence as a magic user to do something about it.So Geralt is boring.
[Mild spoilers ahead and major spoilers are made invisible by magic (view spoiler)[Seriously, this is not coding  (hide spoiler)]]A lion's share of this tale belongs to Witcher and his posse's journey to Nifflegard [Which they never reach] and the rest of the narrative space covers Ciri's adventures [Which is more or less same as the last chapters of Time of contempt], and formation of a new lodge of magicians.
Unusual is an understatement, my dear friend!) (hide spoiler)]One of the key reasons for my distaste towards Time of Contempt was the new characters introduced in the story.
Following the finale of Time of Contempt Geralt is badly injured and was transported to Brokilon forest by the enchantress Triss.
As well as series favourites Geralt, Ciri and Dandelion we are introduced to a plethora of new characters here that are some of thegreatest of Sapkowski's creations thus far.
Unlike the last two books which have had a large amount of different point of view perspectives eighty-percent of this novel is following the Witcher on his mission to rescue Ciri.
This entry is exceptional and as well as the finest story in The Witcher saga it is also probably in my top-20 books of all time.
As I was quite entertained, I nevertheless found that we were given too little of Ciri -- and Yennefer who, I think, is just as interesting and compelling a character as Geralt.
The novel felt poorer for the lack of Geralt/Yennefer interaction.If you were interested in finding out more about the intricate web of politics and sorcery going on in this world, this entry might be kind of disappointing for you.
While perhaps not as exceptional in the manner of its immediate predecessor, “Baptism of Fire” nevertheless solidifies “The Witcher” series as one of the best and most interesting fantasy series I’ve ever read.
So yep, unless I learn Polish in the next year (highly unlikely!), it’s going to be a looooong wait.The fact that Baptism of Fire was perhaps my favorite book in the series so far isn’t helping my patience either.
And indeed, I felt that the story in Baptism of Fire was much simpler when compared to the other books, and not a lot happened at the beginning while Sapkowski worked to introduce all the new faces and names.
In fact, I feel this is probably his best work on this series so far.
Whichever way you want to look at it, Baptism of Fire is the same dull book as it would be in any order.The series continues with Geralt the Witcher searching the land for the Child Surprise, Ciri.
There's barely any Witcher-ing going on (a Witcher being someone who is paid to kill monsters) and the only Witcher-y things that happen are the countless pirouettes that occur during a sword fight.Taking the characters as a whole, they're all still similar, juvenile and can't speak for toffee.
Whilst we are now getting POV from many different characters and we are encountering the different races and peoples that inhabit this Witcher world, we are still not getting much in the way of plot.
The symbolic Baptism of Fire is repeated throughout the story, as beliefs are challenged, paths reforged and it becomes certain that through the fire one must trek if he wishes to be born anew, like a phoenix rising from the ashes.
There were so many delightful parts of this story, clever and witty moments that made me laugh out loud, as well as emotionally gripping instances that touched my heart in ways that will surely linger long after the entire story is finished.
These books have resonated with me in the most beautiful way, and will long be etched high atop the list of stories that touched my life and my heart.
Andamos con nuestro querido brujo y su querido juglar, con una Ciri cuya vida ha cambiado totalmente, con un consejo secreto de hechiceras...
Es verdad que esta saga se ha ido focalizando mucho más a la parte de la historia Ciri-Geralt, pero eso no quita que, de vez en cuando, el cometido del brujo de liberar al mundo de malas criaturas vuelva a aparecer.
Eso sí, ahora lo hará con más detenimiento, con criaturas que te van a hacer pensar si realmente es justo acabar con ellas.
Y seguimos con Geralt en el siguiente libro de esta saga ;D
This review doesn't really contain spoilers, but you probably won't want to read it if you haven't read the books.Baptism of Fire is the fifth book in The Witcher series, chronicling Geralt's journey to Nilfgaard to retrieve Ciri.
I think I have to say that Geralt may even by boring, and the reason these books are so good is in owing to the rest of the cast of characters.
I was excited to have Geralt as the main character again, but I think Ciri is just more interesting when it comes down to it.
A questo punto Milva si unisce a Chair che la salva da un agguato e Geralt e Ranuncolo vengono rinchiusi in una prigione, ma arriva in loro in aiuto il vampiro Regis, che non si nutre di sangue umano e smentisce tutte le voci che corrono sui vampiri, incontrato lungo il viaggio e unitosi anche lui al gruppo.
Grazie al suo aiuto Ranuncolo e Geralt riescono a fuggire e a riunirsi con Milva e Chair con loro prosegue anche Regis.
“Since when did you know anything about mimicking bird calls, Zoltan?’ ‘That’s the whole point. If you hear a strange, unrecognizable sound, you’ll know it’s me.” This book is the strongest one when you consider the character development so far, but the weakest one if you have in mind the plot and action. All our main characters are departed and looking for each other while simultaneously hiding from the common enemy. After a while, it becomes repetitive they have no idea what to do with their
This book is the strongest one when you consider the character development so far, but the weakest one if you have in mind the plot and action.
He joins forces with Milva, a half-Dryad, Dandelion, who always finds his way to be nearby, a group of dwarves, my favourite Regis and a Nilfgaardian, who claims he’s not a Nilfgaardian, named Cahir.
The main downfall is that the plot just falls flat and the reader keeps waiting for something huge to happen but it rarely does.
Before this book, she was the heart of the plot and know she’s a sad shell of who she used to be.
It is a sad experience when your favourite book lets you down.
The Witcher, spawner of books and 3 hugely popular games fails to create the charm it held in the previous books of the series.
The witcher mopes, grunts and travels and yet reaches nowhere.
Characters Geralt of Rivia who does not belong to Rivia, one of my favourite characters does nothing in this book.
The author manages to squeeze in a few good scenes and pick up speed but with so little to do, the pace does not make much of a difference Hopefully the next translated book will be far better in comparison.
Man, I am eating these things up like muthafuckin candy. I love all the characters... well except Yen lol... I am a long time witcher fan from the games, and Yen has always rubbed me the wrong way... although I guess she rubs Geralt the right way :PIm already pretty deep into the next book, I just havent taken the time to get on GR the last week.Highly recommend these.
I had the hardest time deciding whether to give 4 or 5 stars - I settled on 4 because there wasn't nearly enough of Ciri.
This is still a great book: plenty of action and intrigue as war rages across the land, with Geralt and company heading straight into the heart of it in search of Ciri.
This is a dark tale that pulls no punches when depicting the chaos of war.Some compelling new characters are introduced, and a couple of minor players are given their time of day.
Rarely have I been so emotionally invested in the fate of fictional characters!
Βαθμολογία: ★★★★★Στο τρίτο βιβλίο της πενταλογίας, ένα συγκεκριμένο πρόσωπο συνεχίζει να αγνοείται, ο Geralt ξεκινά ένα μακρύ ταξίδι για να την αναζητήσει ενώ γύρω του σχηματίζεται η πιο παράδοξη συντροφιά. Μαζί θα διασχίσουν πεδία μάχης, θα συναντήσουν φίλους και εχθρούς, θα γίνουν μάρτυρες ενός κόσμου που καίγεται, ενός πολέμου που σαρώνει τα πάντα. Παράλληλα, μία εξίσου παράδοξη συντροφιά θα συναθροιστεί, που επίσης αναζητεί το ίδιο πρόσωπο, αλλά με άλλες βλέψεις. Ο Sapkowski αποδεικνύεται για ακόμη μια φορά εξαιρετικός storyteller, κι ας γκρινιάζουν κάποιοι ότι «τίποτε δε συμβαίνει στο βιβλίο»
Le cuesta un poco arrancar, pero luego la cosa mejora. Lleno de crítica, humor y grandes diálogos. Me ha encantado el grupo que se ha ido uniendo a Geralt, genial me lo he pasado viendo como se discurrian los hechos en su compañía.
Curiosamente tiene una estructura justo al contrario del cuarto libro. En la anterior novela me quejaba de que terminaba con el típico viaje a caballo donde no pasa gran cosa. Pues aquí continúa ese estilo durante casi ¡150 páginas!.Pero cuando ya estaba maquinando la reseña que iba a escribir aquí, de repente Sapkowski se debió de dar cuenta de algo y el último tercio vuelve a lo mejor del anterior libro: diálogos inteligentes, acción, humor...Y termina dejándome con ganas de seguir con el siguiente.Lo que sí que no le perdono es que apenas salga Ciri.Necesito a Ciri ya.
More reviews (and no fluff) on the blog http://surrealtalvi.wordpress.com/ Ah, Geralt of Rivia. I can’t quite put my finger on why I enjoy this series, or rather the world they are set in so much. It is a very classic fantasy where the exploring of new places (read: questing) is a big part. But it is also a very modern fantasy with gritty undertones and imperfect protagonists. Or more accurately, the dry British humor in which the story is told - never making a joke of the world, but let the re
But it is also a very modern fantasy with gritty undertones and imperfect protagonists.
The translation into English by David French is excellent.In this fourth book of the series Geralt continues the search for Ciri, his missing child of the prophesy princess-become-witcher.
The main plot could be summarized as ‘Geralt goes from one place to another in what is an ultimately useless wild goose chase’; but with many classic fantasy tales the things met along the way are what make the story interesting.
And as a note to writers of modern gritty fantasy - you can create a realistic, brutal world even if you do not go into excessive graphical detail.
eso, un desarrollo como personaje, un avance en el caracter y en la actitud (para bien o para mal), lo cual creo que es muy importante y que enriquece tanto la lectura como el volumen, y dice mucho de la capacidad del escritor.
MUY para bien.No puedo comentar mucho más del contenido sin hacer spoiler, si estás interesado en este es porque ya te ha interesado la saga así que no querrás leer spoilers, luego no voy a hacerlos.
5 Stars again for this next one in this seriesEvery time I think the next one won't life up to the last book and my high expectations based on how much I love the games and every time I am wrong (and I couldn't be happier)Another great addition.The world building is sensational and again is exactly how I pictured it (and remember it from the games).
While the books and the games do diverge a lot in terms of story the characters are almost identical which is just fantastic I think.Again the plot is very much part action part political intrigue part social treatise but the game is too so I really like that aspect.
Narrative is a little bit weird in this one.
Sometimes I felt I was reading a lighthearted comedy about friends traveling from one place to the other.
Suddenly, I was in the middle of a bloody and political war.The ups and downs kind of turned me off at some point, and I know this is supposed to be a Medieval setting but the use of the femme cast sometimes worried me.
No shades of grey.
Anyways, still a good book, plot-wise one of the most important, so if you are at this stage go on, it will not let you down.
I think it is a good transition book and the new characters are interesting, the plots about the wizards' coup and the other political schemes are getting clearer as well, can't wait to see how the main characters' journey will turn out!
**** 4.5/5 ****I am seriously so obsessed with this series. RTC
Will review soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
Dostajemy też niezawodny tercet komiczny - Zoltana, Percivala oraz Feldmarszłka Dudę, który jak nikt inny potrafi skomentować bieżące wydarzenia oraz wyrazić opinię o matkach wrogich naszym bohaterom postaci...Sapkowski tym tomem bawi się jakże znaną czytelnikom fantasy koncepcją DRUŻYNY - żaden dobry system RPG nie może obyć się bez drużyny, a tutaj mamy wojownika, wiedźmina (druid/łowca/wojownik?), łuczniczkę, barda i cyrulika.
Oczywiście drużyny nikt nie tworzy, drużyna tworzy się sama - a może to wszystko dzięki przeznaczeniu...No i ostatnia scena z książki - jest to chyba scena, która najlepiej zapadła mi w pamięć z całej Sagi...
Yolculuğu sırasında ona daimi dostu Dandelion’ın yanı sıra Milva adında oldukça yetenekli bir okçu kadın, oyunlardan tanıdığımız ve görünce neşeli bir tezahürat atmama neden olan cüce Zoltan, esrarengiz bir hekim olan Regis başta olmak üzere pek çok yeni karakter eşlik ediyor.
Kitapta ayrılmaz ikili Zoltan ve Dandelion’un nasıl tanıştığını, Geralt’ın geçmişiyle ilgili ufak ama ilginç detayları, kadın büyücülerin meşhur ve gizli konseyinin nasıl kurulduğunu, Nilfgaard’ın ikinci istilası sırasında yaşananları ve daha pek çok şeyi okuma fırsatı buluyoruz.
Evet, karakterlerin hepsi birbirinden ilginç… ama dediğim gibi, kitapta ana konuyu ilerletecek hiç ama hiçbir şey yok.
Baptism of Fire is the fifth book in Andrzej Sapkowski’s WITCHER series. It starts up immediately after the events in The Time of Contempt, which you must read before picking up Baptism of Fire. This review will contain spoilers for previous books.Previously, in The Time of Contempt, Geralt, Yennefer, and Ciri got caught up in a coup on the island of Thanedd. The Chapter of Mages was destroyed as the sorcerers and sorceresses were either killed or otherwise dispersed. Geralt was defeated and ... Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
¡Qué final! De lo mejor hasta ahora.Todo lo relacionado con el vampiro me ha parecido muy interesante.Me habría gustado que saliesen más Triss y Ciri, pero agradezco no haber tenido que aguantar a Yennefer."Geralt de Rivia". Me ha encantado.
Great book. Picks up almost immediately where the last book ended. Geralt still on his quest to find and save Ciri. My only disappointment was that it ended sort of abruptly.
От Netlix обявиха, че вече са готови със сценария на пилотния епизод от предстоящия сериал по „Вещерът”, а самият Анджей Сапковски ще е консултант при адаптацията на книгите.
И макар, че отговорната за сериала Лорън Хисрич редовно пуска из Туитър гъделичкащи въображението на феновете характеристики на главните герои, то все още ни държат в напрежение относно актьорския състав.
Знаете ли кой обаче не изтезава почитателите на Гералт с дълго чакане?
Преди малко повече от година пуснахме ревюто на „Последното желание”, а ето че днес вече говорим за петата книга от знаменитата полска фентъзи поредица – „Вещерът: Огнено кръщение”.
Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
