https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32076678-the-fact-of-a-body
Pedophiles and the harm they cause, the lasting effects on their victims, whether in family or without, the subject makes this a difficult book to read.
It triggers memories of the abuse within her own family and she sets out to understand​, both Ricky's case and her own family and what lived within the confines of supposed love.This story is so personal, we feel as if we are travelling with her as she makes her discoveries, witness her pain and anguish, feel with her as she tries to understand.
If you are a fan of true crime, this book is excellent.
If you are a fan of memoir, this book is excellent.
If you are a fan of legal thrillers, this book is excellent.
If you are a fan of beautiful language, this book is excellent.
If you are a fan of page-turners, this book is excellent.
If you are a fan of boundlessly empathetic storytelling and brilliant questions about the meaning of acceptance, this book is excellent.
If you are a fan of a scene in which one character manages, maybe, to have sex while in a body cast, this book is excellent.
We get a very personal -intimate -' private-as-private-is', up and close 'factual' and 'emotional' account from what author Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich shares with us about her life.
I MUST HAVE READ THIS SECTION 4 or 5 times....a couple of pages.....I've HAD SIMILAR EXPERIENCES......( I'm not talking about sex - I'm not gay and I've never been molested).....
but I've never read ANYONE describe the experience like Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich did in this book: "Where does the mind go in these moments, while the body trembles?
So what stories were made up in this book?
Accused of killing and molesting a six year old, Langley's counsel fought to keep him from the death penalty, either with a conviction of life in prison or by reasons of insanity.
Marzano-Lesnevich had chosen to enter the law not just because both of her parents were lawyers, but because she was morally opposed to the death penalty; until she became exposed to the Langley case and churned up ghastly images from her childhood.
It is not my place to question the parenting skills here, but Marzano-Lesnevich's family appears dysfunctional at best, and she became a loner, and later in life could relate to a convicted pedophile like Ricky Langley.
As is obvious to anyone who has read the book, its subject matter and the author's personal experiences make it difficult to criticize.
So before going further, I would like to make clear that my dislike of the book is not rooted in the author's personal memoir or her meditations on how her childhood traumas shaped her.
People who encounter these events want these events to make sense.
The author is impaired by her own lens of experience, and, as a result, I never felt like she was able to penetrate the matter in a way that rang true.
Part memoir, written almost as a novel, this is a painful, thoughtful account of a crime and how it affected those involved , but also how it changed the life of author Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich.
The author believed her views and opinions were set in stone, but then she meets Ricky Langley, who is facing the death penalty for the murder of six year old Jeremy Guillory.
Marzano-Lesnevich entwines the story of Lorilei and Jeremy, with that of Ricky Langley and with that of her own life.
I have no wish to give spoilers in this review and you need to read this book in order to discover the links between those involved.
Blending the best facets of history and historical fiction writing, this memoir of both the factual and imagined past bring alive the murder of a young boy, Jeremy Guillory, by a confessed pedophile, alongside the author's own sexual abuse by her grandfather.
Despite having an opposition to capital punishment that was fundamental to her decision to study law, her introduction to this death penalty case while working as intern led Marzano-Lesnevich to a difficult decision, that she actually wanted this particular man to die.
This book asks us whether this things matter and whether someone should die for the crimes they've committed.
She takes you along on a journey of discovery, one of unpalatable realities, poignant self realisation and historical influence, it is at turns heart breaking, utterly riveting and melancholy, get ready to be hooked, unable to look away.The Fact of a Body often reads like a literary thriller, I found myself remembering with a jolt that these were real people living real lives – the author shows the mundane routine of living, alongside the telling events that informed eventual acts, alongside the things that cannot be explained no matter how much we may wish for a reason.
What I really enjoyed reading about was the murder that was committed and the disputable reasons behind WHY it was committed.
This book also hugely focuses on paedophilia and I believe this is an important read because it raises awareness.
There were times when I had to put my kindle down and contemplate what I had just read, because I couldn't wrap my head around it.
Other times I would tear up at the horrific things Ricky Langley (the murderer) had done and the things the author herself went through.
Our actions, however small, can have a monumental impact on another person's life.
So - If minor spoilers bother you - stop reading now."The Fact of a Body" melds the true crime story of child molester/murderer Ricky Langley with Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich's tale of being sexually abused as a child.In 1992, Louisiana resident Ricky Langley killed his six-year-old neighbor, Jeremy Guillory, and - after being convicted by a jury - was sentenced to death.
(Note: Ricky had yet a third trial, years later, and was once again sentenced to life.) After Langley's second trial, in 2003, Harvard law student Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich - who opposes the death penalty - became a summer intern at Clive Stafford Smith's law firm in New Orleans.
"[B]ut over time is starts to feel appropriate, somehow, that I can't find the house. The feeling is like chasing a memory that slips from your mind just as soon as you start to grasp it. Sure, it's dangerous to read metaphor into life; sure, it smacks of a desire to read meaning into cold fact, but doesn't all of this?" This book made me feel so terribly uncomfortable right from the start. And by uncomfortable I don't just mean in terms of the subject content, which, yes, is disturbing and har
This is narrative non-fiction and Marzano-Lesnevich has tried to create a comparison between the two real life crimes.
However, I really did not like the fact that Marzano-Lesnevich uses the same narrative style while trying to find "meanings" and comparisons in other people's lives, namely, Ricky Langley's and his victim's family's.
I'd agree with her own words that "it's dangerous to read metaphor into life", and I'd go as far as to argue that here it feels exploitative.
Maybe not, but I'm just explaining why I felt so uncomfortable with how this particular book dealt with people's lives while being marketed as non-fiction and "fact".
This is one of the best books I've ever read that cores a murder case which resulted in a death penalty conviction.
It's one of the very few which although in the end tone seems to support a strong movement toward making death penalty executions a thing of the past; STILL- it fully reveals the other side of needing and SO wanting that person to be "not alive" for the torture and horror that they initiated, and which STILL echoes throughout numberless lives' "after effects".
Many good people, much more innocent, maybe more sheltered, and vast numbers too fragile or emotional- may not be able to connote Alexandria's own experiences on a horror scale, let alone the murderer's or the victims'.
The Fact of a Body: begins way before Alexandria starts working at a law firm.
Pedophiles and the harm they cause, the lasting effects on the victims, whether in the family or without, makes this a difficult book to read.
As a law student, the author comes across a case that triggers memories within her own family and what lives within the confines of supposed love.
The secrets held in her own family, passed down through generations, and her attempt to understand what makes someone sexually prey on others.
I trudged through this book, even though it was very well written.
Marzano-Lesnevich went to Louisiana to help work with prisoners on death row, and instead found herself questioning her opposition to the death penalty when she came across a particularly heinous crime.
(This book is fascinating and beautifully written, but please be aware that there are some really brutal, possibly triggering things discussed in it as well.)Backlist bump: No bump, just advice to mark down After the Eclipse: A Mother’s Murder, a Daughter’s Search by Sarah Perry now, because WOW.Tune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/listen/shows/allt...
In a braided narrative that weaves true crime with memoir, Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich untangles the notion of proximate cause and the reality of personal perspective, and exposing the law as a mutable animal, born of bias and propelled by coincidence.Marzano-Lesnevich was a young Harvard law student in 2003, interning for a Louisiana firm that specialized in defending death penalty clients, when she encountered Ricky Langley, convicted of the murder of six-year-old Jeremy Guillory a decade earlier.
Her visceral reaction to a convicted child killer, one whom her law firm was fighting to keep off death row, led to an internal journey which resulted in The Fact of a Body.
There is also a bit of fiction as the author recreates moments from the past where there is no record of what happened and where she was not present.The main focus of the book is the author, Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich, and a convicted child murderer and pedophile named Ricky Langley.
In doing so, Marzano-Lesnevich’s past comes into play and it definitely affects the way she looks at Ricky Langley.In looking into Ricky’s past, the book takes a bit of an almost historical fiction tone as Marzano-Lesnevich has to fill in missing pieces and create dialogue and inner thoughts for Ricky and the people in his life.
But in true crime sometimes it feels like it is not about real people and instead it's about characters and stories.
But in Marzano-Lesnevich's combination memoir/true crime, every single person is handled with such delicacy and respect that reading about them feels more like an act of connection and communion than bystander gawking.
I read another combination memoir/true crime a few months ago whose title is not worth mentioning.
For the most part, the author's recreations feel real and emotionally true.
Readers who think they may not be able to read the story of a child murder or molestation should definitely skip it.
I'm leaving this unrated because while it was in many ways a beautiful book, it's also the most upsetting book I've ever read.Obviously, content warnings abound.
This book contains child molestation, sexual assault, murder, abuse, among other things.Because Marzano-Lesnevich contrasts the child molester and murderer with events in her own life, there is an intimacy throughout the story.
Marzano-Lesnevich writing feels quiet.
It's this quiet that left me feeling so devastated.
It's beautiful, but it has left me unsettled in a way that no other book has.
No one story is complete." –Alexandria Marzano-LesnevichWow. This book really put me through the ringer.
I wish that I had realized that the whole of this book would be difficult to read.
In most true crime books I've read thus far, the gritty part is found at the beginning, and the details in catching the culprit take up the rest of the reading.
Not so in this case, which is a true crime work wrapped about a memoir.
I kept finding so many errors throughout...and I wasn't reading an ARC.
That being said, you should probably read this.
(In childhood, she says, she was vehemently opposed to capital punishment, yet when she first learned of Ricky Langley’s crime, she did not want him to live.) All we know at the end is that she finds his being sentenced to life imprisonment for second-degree murder an “elegant” solution that somehow addresses the complexity of the situation.Marzano-Lesnevich, who trained as a lawyer but decided against going into practice (it would have been interesting to know why), says she "fell in love with law" years before because it allowed the making of a story, “a neat narrative of events,” that “finds a beginning, and therefore cause.” “But,” she says, “I didn't understand then that the law doesn't find the beginning any more than it finds the truth.
If you're one of those lucky people who still have solid faith in this thing called 'family institution', I caution you before picking this one up - the disillusionment may never be undone.
This is not to say that it is not well-written, or that it does not provide a challenging examination of abuse; however, it does not deliver the Serial-like mystery its synopsis suggests.Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich has written a book that is so raw that I was only able to listen to it at first in 30-minute bursts.
The book is follows two stories: that of the author and the murder trials of known pedophile Ricky Langley.
One can't help but feel churlish in writing a review that takes aim at what is such a personal outpouring of emotion, thought, and belief.
I honestly don't know how to review this book.
This is an incredibly powerful story, and obviously intensely personal for the author -- it's hard to be critical when you're discussing someone's traumatic experiences; it just seems cruel.
Marzano-Lesnevich raises a lot of questions about family ties (both positive and negative) and what we as a society expect from our justice system, reform or revenge.
I can't say I liked this book, though I'm glad to have read it.
Seeing as I'm in the minority with my review, there are a lot of people out there who would obviously like it more than I did -- I think it's worth giving a try.
I cannot imagine writing a non-fiction/memoir especially when the author has to step out of her comfort zone in order to do so.
Not an easy read but I appreciate the amount of research and time that went into this book.
The subject covered was depressing and disheartening.Not only was it a difficult read because of the murder involved but also Alexandria's memoir described a sad and difficult childhood.
Both stories do support each other.I felt the stories to be scattered which made presenting the information disjointed.
However, I found this book to be well-researched and one that I would recommend.
The Best Books of 2017Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich weaves an emotional, gripping— beautifully and intelligently written debut; a haunting work of art— THE FACT OF A BODY  A Murder and a Memoir.
A cross-genre,  an extraordinary mix of literary, memoir, true-crime, legal, mystery, suspense, and historical in one powerful story—traveling between a murder case and the author’s own personal childhood tragic abuse.
In this harrowing,  raw, and emotional journey, the author pieces together the story of murder, and her own personal story.
At the same time, she begins to dig further into the scars while attempting to understand Langley and her own abuser (her grandfather).
Equal parts horrifying and fascinating. Really well done.
This is an ambitious memoir/novel, looking at an actual crime that was prosecuted in the public eye weighted against the author's personal story.
Hearing that little girl try to make sense of such betrayal will affect the reader, so I have to urge some caution: this may not be the book for you to read OR Marzano-Lesnevich's courage and triumph might be a source of support and encouragement.What comes across is a very intellectual novel, almost a given with the author's scholastic achievements.
I think had Marzano-Lesnevich trusted her readers a little more, reading could have been experienced-- as much as possible with such matters.
The murder and the memoir made an odd combination for me. I get why the murder triggered memories for the author, but it wasn't a coherent narrative. I also didn't like how she inserted so much speculation about other people's thoughts and motives. Looks like I'm in the minority of people who thought this book just OK
The author's writing was beautiful and lyrical in a way that I was so fully engaged with the story that when the brutal details of little Jeremy's murder and then the author's own heartbreaking story came front and center, it really hit me in a way I wasn't expecting...hence the needed break.
Once composed, I dived back in because while at times brutal to read, this story is also fascinating, haunting, and illuminating.
The author doesn't just haphazardly toss out details of Jeremy's murder and Ricky Langley's life and then switch to her own story.
Alexandria Marzano-Lesnevich was a freshly minted lawyer when her law firm her assigned her to a death penalty case of a convicted pedophile and child murderer, Ricky Langley.
Marzano-Lesnevich whom until the time was a stanch anti-death penalty supporter, immediately after watching a video tape of the convicted murderer wants him to die.
The book then takes on a strange but interesting twist, Marzano-Lesnevich begins to intertwine her childhood with that of the murderer.
As a child she was molested by her Grandfather, once her parents were made aware of this, they stopped having her grandparents stay in the house.
