https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289769.Proust
*I should make the point that this is due mostly to the fact that Proust’s revelations on Time, Habit, and Memory are probably the most important and meaningful that I’ve ever encountered in literature.
Point being, this book’s probably only worth your time if you’re very invested in the themes of In Search of Lost Time, even though Beckett apparently meant this book as a critical introduction to Proust’s work.
Il tempo non esisteAchille Bonito Oliva ritiene che il tempo abbia fatto fatto deragliare tutti i linguaggi del Novecento e la filosofia contemporanea si interroga se il tempo esista, almeno per come lo abbiamo inteso fino ad oggi.
Il saggio scritto da Samuel Beckett si inscrive bene in questa dialettica poiché lo scrittore analizza non solo l'opera letteraria di Marcel Proust, ma anche le categorie temporali.
Noi siamo altri.La nostra infelicità, scrive Beckett, deriva dalla nostra volontà di perseguire delle aspirazioni che magari erano valide ieri, oggi sono già state superate.
Scriveva Proust:Chi non ha la forza di uccidere la realtà, non ha la forza di crearla.
Reading it gave me something to do while waiting for some time to pass by so I can start Proust fresh again.This is a great book to read in public if you want everyone to know beyond a shadow of doubt that you're a total douchebag.
Between you and me, the parts I did get were excellent, and threw light on Proust's writing in a way I found, um....
If he was indirectly responsible for this, though, I guess he's okay in my book.Anyway, if you've recently read Proust and are interested in a response to his writing that's a) more intellectual than the book reports on here and b) more difficult to read than Proust himself but still well-written and good, this could be your ticket.
Apparently, Beckett translated all the Proust passages he tries to analyse understand himself (I don't think he likes the word 'analyse' or anything related to academic criticism, and for that I love him).
i'd really like to have read his versions of Proust's words - he could have just taken passages from Scott Moncreiff's English translation of the first volume but he chose to render everything in English himself.
And because he didn't use footnotes or page notes for the citations, every translation of Beckett's Proust involves translating Beckett's version of Proust's words into that language, even back into French, as in this version!
When I was a student, Harold Bloom instructed us to read this in the following manner: Whenever Beckett mentions the name of Proust, substitute that of Wordsworth. Reading it again now, I prefer to re-insert "Proust".
Sofrendo do mesmo mal que acometeu o trabalho de Deleuze sobre Proust, Em Busca do Tempo perdido é tão obra prima que qualquer coisa dita sobre ele se torna redundante.
I like Beckett.
And I like Proust.
It was written when he was 25 or so and he apparently didn't like it himself when he was older.Here's a quote from the beginning of the book:But the poisonous ingenuity of Time in the science of affliction is not limited to its action on the subject, that action, as has been shown, resulting in an unceasing modification of his personality, whose permanent reality, if any, can only be apprehended as a retrospective hypothesis.And so on...Ok, there are a few good quotes, such as:Memory and Habit are attributes of the Time cancer.Curiosity is the hair of our habit tending to stand on end.The additional dialogues between Samuel Beckett and Georges Duthuit are even more pointless.
cost me €50 in library charges. was worth it.
I almost put the piece down after encountering the meaningless phrase "...leaves us as indifferent as the heterogeneity of any one of its terms..." The words in this essay seem to be placed there for the sound they make, not for any meaning they might convey.
I decided to read the entire piece just to have it under my belt, but actually wish I hadn't since it was ultimately so annoying, down to the very last page.
The penultimate page, in fact, has the most meaningless, ill-informed, soulless description of music I've ever read.
I lost my copy of this book years ago. Many is the time that I have wished to refer to it. Most memorable line: "Curiosity is the hair of our habit tending to stand on end."
Didn’t read this to learn more about Proust, but to glean more about Beckett, and this book certainly reveals more about Beckett than Proust.
All that aside, Beckett does throw out some key points on the relation between subject and object - although very much in sync with Heisenberg, whose “uncertainty principle” was published in 1927 - that becomes important in Beckett’s later works.This edition also includes Three Dialogues with Gorges Duthuit, which was published in 1949 and includes such key Beckett themes as the “nothing to express .
Are we really to deplore the painting that is rallying, among the things of time that pass and hurry us away, towards a time that endures and gives increase?” And B.
Interesting but written in a deliberately obscure style - the way some young men write ;-)
Just damn good. Better brush up on your Greek myths though!
DENSE
Yet, the writers people in my age group read and are taught revered Beckett, writers like Raymond Carver, Donald Barthelme, and Anne Beattie.I have not yet mentioned Proust, and maybe I should.
Proust is also in my favorite 3 writers, is probably number 1 or number 2, and although I have read his entire book, it is in the Moncreif translation, a translation insulted by writers.
I have read something like 10 books in French.As for the quality of the study this meandering review is about...
There are a huge qualifications that need to be placed on pointing out that Beckett's study "Proust" is not great.
Desde luego, espero algún día tener el tiempo y, sobre todo, la capacidad analítica para disfrutar a fondo de la obra proustiana; pero, mientras tanto, puedo deleitarme gracias a otro gran escritor, Samuel Beckett, quien desarrolló el interés que suscitó en él Proust en un interesante y espinoso ensayo llamado, precisamente, “Proust”.En el verano de 1930, durante una estadía en la Escuela Normal parisina, le fue encomendada a Beckett la tarea de analizar “En busca…” (leyó la obra dos veces, ¡qué envidia!, durante ese periodo).
this gotta be the funniest literary criticism i've read.
at first you may think beckett has snatched up proust as a soapbox for his own artistic credo, but you'll soon find that he has none, even less so than he intends to elucidate proust.
this is pure delightful bombast: this is how a literary debutant makes a splash in 1930.
there are too many preposterous turns of phrase for me to quote -- i see this as an entertainment for those who are as intimately familiar with proust's world as beckett is, to see him so deftly juggling, jumbling, balancing and blasting the material .
"La Memoria e l’Abitudine sono attributi di quel cancro che è il Tempo." (p. 17)"La sola ricerca feconda è uno scavo, un’immersione, una contrazione dello spirito, una discesa in profondità. L’artista è attivo, ma negativamente: si ritrae dalla nullità di ciò che appare in superficie, ed è trascinato nel cuore del vortice." (p. 47)
Beckett himself panned this one later in his life and I think he was right. Seemed like a young philosophy student exercising his new found vocabulary. To me anyway. Wish I could be more positive but I can't.
really good (despite Beckett's later legitimate criticism that the language is a bit overflown). biggest confusion is that he did all his own translations and so I couldn't quite place most of the quotes.
It's so brilliant that I can't understand it.
"The artist is active, but negatively…He cannot practice friendship, because friendship is the centrifugal force of self-fear, self-negation"(48); "He deplores the 'time one wastes in upholstering one's life with a human and parasitic vegetation"(68).
He assimilates the human to the vegetal.
He is conscious of humanity as flora, never as fauna.
But this is not the terrible panic-stricken stasis of Keats." Music is the catalytic element in the work of Proust; it synthesizes teh moments of privilege and runs parallel to them, sine materia (contra Swann, who identifies Sonata with Odette).
In his later writing career, Beckett, like all great creators, has a sort of epistemological and ontological modesty and moderation (meaning he could be understood at different levels: he has a superficial face you can admire, even if you hadn't understood him completely -- and a deeper persona, you can grasp only after careful study).
Like Balzac or Hugo, you can catch a glimpse of his genius even if you don't get him completely.
But in this study on Proust, written when he was 24, Beckett shows no trace of "universalist" generalized wise modesty, he writes with cynism, sheer brilliance and aggressiveness like a bloodhound.
Proust by Samuel BeckettProust is the best writer I have ever had the chance to read.
I respect and admire Beckett; so far I have only read Molloy and still have to finish the last two parts of his trilogy.This is a very good short book, which did not get all of my attention.
I was pleasantly surprised.
Took a little break from reading Proust (and added to my reading of the complete works of Beckett in order) to peruse this longish essay by Mr. Becket on M.
Proust.
Then there's a long middle section that's mostly a commentary--synopsis with proofs of his opening remarks emphasized--and then a pretty rousing conclusion re-iterating his interpretation of La Recherche as an obliteration of time through processes outside of voluntary memory in which art is accessory but not totally germinal.
I agree with his reading in the main, although I might ascribe it to other reasons.
Wait until you've finished La Recherche to read this one.
http://andalittlewine.blogspot.com/20...Before I dig into In Search of Lost Time as the central pillar of my 30 Before 30, I checked a few books out of the local library to help me get started.The most disappointing was Samuel Beckett's Proust.I think my disappointment stems from my sincere enjoyment of Beckett's fiction, plays and poetry.
Having not read Proust's work yet, I can hope that once I begin some doors will open, but despite my excitement at reading one master's views on another, this was the wrong book to start with.
an essay on proust that predates basically all of beckett's major works; it's tempting to say that the essay teaches us more about the young beckett than about proust-- we can even see, or can think we see, the beginnings of some of the themes of 'krapp's last tape' (still 27 years away) in these analyses of proustian time and proustian memory.i'm a bit more interested, however, in the "three dialogues" with georges duthuit that are included in the edition of "proust" i read.
these provide a rare instance of beckett speaking on contemporary art, in dialogues on tal-coat, masson, and bram van velde.
"alla ricerca del tempo perduto” di proust è una di quelle cose che mi attraggono e mi spaventano al tempo stesso: sono anni che vorrei buttarmici dentro e al tempo stesso temo l'impresa di affrontarne tutti i volumi.
per caso ho recuperato questo saggio di beckett -che rispetto a proust conosco meglio: qualche lettura in gioventù, "finale di partita", "l'ultimo nastro di krupp" e "aspettando godot" visti a teatro con fior di attori e adorati- e ho deciso di vedere se proust filtrato da lui potesse funzionare ad invogliarmi.
arrivato alla fine, nasce il dubbio: cosa c'è di beckett in questa lettura di proust?
As some reviewers have pointed out, some passages read in what might be considered an annoying academically obscure manner.
I actually found it fun and occasionally rewarding to put considerable effort into the more difficult passages.
Given Beckett's other work, it should not, at any rate, be surprising that this piece does not read with utter clarity.
What fun would that be?I also enjoyed the brief dialogues that followed the Proust analysis.
Also, a bit of fun wherein Beckett responds "a fortnight later" at one point and "exits weeping" at another.
I read this on a flight from Nashville to Las Vegas.
It is difficult but rewarding.
Beckett was obviously a great admirer of Proust but he is not without some apt criticism.
He says at one point that Proust is no longer read, which is interesting.
These days I can't read Beckett but I can almost always read Proust.
But it does seem ludicrous these days that neither Proust nor Joyce received the Nobel prize for Literature.
This book is difficult enough that I may read it again on the flight back to Nashville.
