https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74456.The_Awakening_of_Intelligence
In Awakening of Intelligence, Krishnamurti repeats the same message that he has always stated: The past, which is the known, keeps us bound.
By repeating and reinforcing these same patterns, a perception is solidified and reality is, consequently, fragmented.This book helped me a couple of years ago by serving as an introduction to perceptual, empirical conditioning.
Krishnamurti's works served as a theoretical springboard to jump into, and fully realize, the pith of his message:Liberation is spontaneous and non-mechanical.
Liberation is freedom from the known.
To be in a state of unknowing is the ultimate intelligence and the utmost paradox.
"A forma mais elevada de inteligência é a capacidade de observar sem julgar". (Jiddu Krishnamurti)
Of course, the paradoxical nature and impossibility (and ultimately, the freedom) of such an idea (a thought!) is what makes this book so captivating, as Krishnaji explains and explains precisely what he means, engaging both the reader as well as the person he is talking to in each chapter, from philosophy professors to famous thinkers like David Bohm.
I have finally interpreted the key ideas in this book by grounding them in the context of meditation, in which the avoidance/non-avoidance of thought makes perfect sense.
This book is amazing.
It's not a book that you have to read from cover to cover, which I really enjoyed, because you can just pick it up at any point, find a topic you want to "dig in deep and REALLY think about," and go ahead and read about it.
My best friend and I once had a 4 1/2hr conversation discussing two pages in this book.
I recommend this book to somebody who's just getting into philosophy, because it's definitely not the "easiest" of reads, however there's a wealth of knowledge in it's context, from one who the Dalai Llama deemed to be, "one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th century."
What a thinker! This book will rattle your brain in many new directions and will strip away so much conditioned thinking. This is not for the lighthearted. If you enjoy philosophy, you need to read this.
A record of talks Krishnamurti held, the book can get repetitive as people in his audience keep asking the same questions over and over.
His iconoclastic sense of religion sets the seeker him or herself as the authority, asking the question "what would you believe in if there was no religion?" Krishnamurti keeps having to remind his audience to think for themselves, and not to pay too much attention to what he himself is teaching.
(That reminded me of that scene in THE LIFE OF BRIAN when the crowd keeps shouting back everything Brian says.)If the title doesn't scare you or make you chortle with disdain, this book can change your life.

The message is that the ending of sorrow is found in the cessation of self-interest which is the source of all conflict - self-interest including the desire to achieve even the most lofty spiritual ideals.
If one has ever felt a longing to live completely without conflict, the type of self-examination Krishnamurti encourages could be revolutionary; but it would be a vast misunderstanding to credit his teaching as a step on the ladder to whom you wish to become.On a practical note -- this happened to be the first book i picked up "by" him, and it is very thorough; however, the message is the same in all his books, some of which are much shorter.
There is a simplicity and profoundness to Krishnamurti's talks, he often connects the topic back to root causes of the human condition. He offers a brilliant perspective of the nature of ego, security, suffering, and thinking itself. It is a profoundly simple message, yet eloquently conveyed with strong questions to break through the fears and egos that prevent the human mind from understanding something that is otherwise quite simple.
My one main criticism would be that at times he comes across extremely arrogant to the point that you get the impression that anything the audience member said he would refute without thinking.
One of his key points and brain shakers for me is his assertion of the inadequacy of thought and thinking.
He cites may times the example of an observer looking at a beautiful image like a beautiful Himalayan mountain range and how when you look at that image and you are enraptured in the beauty of what you see, your "thinking" comes to a standstill.
Although much of the book seems to be a repetition of the same basic premises, each new approach seems to contain a different explanation, which keeps it alive and enables one to have a multifaceted view that reinforces the ideas from different angles, and for that reason its worth expending the considerable energy required to keep up the level of concentration required.
I'd recommend the book for anyone left confused/disillusioned with philosophy/psychology/spirituality/religion/quantum physics or needs a more in-depth view of the human experience and the nature of perceived reality.
صحوة الذكاء/للكاتب والفيلسوف الهندي كريشنامورتينحن لسنا اذكياء لأننا نكون علاقات غير حقيقية نحن نكون
This one of the outanding spiritual books of the last century.
This is also one of the books I will never finish reading.
It is to be contemplated upon -not reading in the normal sense.
The section pages 384 - 414 for me is favourite.
Interview with Bohm at the lastpart is insightful.
I have been with this book for several decades but re read when i need contemplation.
In fact i have a few books that are favourite for reapeated study.
J.k's Ending of Time and his another dialogue with Bohm called Transformation of Man are in this category.
It took me most of a year to read this book.
And this was the second time I read it.
It still is one of my all time favorite books.
It's offers a full view of Krishnamurti's philosophy through transcripts of his talks in India and London.
If you want to understadn why "thought is a prison" and why the images you hold about others interfere with your personal growth and realization of Truth and compassion, this is a good book to read.
It's the kind of book you have to study and apply to yourself as you read it, if you want to benefit from reading it.
This is a heavy, lengthy and intense read.
That being said...it gives one plenty of food for thought.
I did find that it does require focus to understand the words of Krishnamurti...but it is not one of those books that just seems impossible to grasp.
I don't know if Krishnamurti's philosophy is true or false, but it's definitely interesting and something to take into consideration.
Very intriguing and eye-opening (I use that term loosley) at some points.
I don't know what else to say after that.
I could go into each specific issue one by one and give my reflections...but i don't want to.
I came across Krishnamurti's name digging around in Bruce Lee's Tao of Jeet Kune Do. Krishnamurti is listed in there in one of Bruce's lists under "Mental Training". And that's what this is. Krishnamurti's reading is like meditation, spirituality, or mysticism, but without any of the obesiance to authority, supernatural claims, or mystification. I have gradually become more focused on social and political suffering and social and political solutions to human misery, but for help with trying to understand what doesn't fit into those categories, I find Krishnamurti to be helpful.
200 pages into this book and I finally have some idea what Krishnamurti is speaking about.
He is writing about seeing and how this is different than learning and seeking, etc.
"So what is important is not to learn, but to see and to listen...
Then out of this listening you will find that all seperation between the observer and the observed comes to an end...
If you can see, than you have nothing else to do, because in that seeing there is all discipline, all virtue, which is attention.
And in that seeing there is all beauty and with beauty there is love."
I laboured through this book! It was a triumph in itself just to finish reading it! His audience seemed to be forever groping in the dark....he is very unattached to anything, doesn't read any books (one can see that clearly!), very self-opinionated, ask the same questions over and over again and always looked down upon anybody's viewpoint....sigh....I took about 9 months to labour through it....phew!
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JKvz3B...staggering brilliance..."You are the world and the world is you"'the world' is your mind's perception of the world...so then it's best to develope both your mind and therefore the world. Reminds me of that P-Funk song... "free your mind and you ass will follow"
The most influential book I ever read, proof is I threw it against the wall !
This man may have single handedly changed my life. HIm and maybe a punk rock....
This guy really loved to hear himself talk
nonfiction,philosophy
My first Krishnamurri book. for me it was the best.
By the time one is ready to start thinking for himself , most of the ideas are already inculcated in him by his parents, society, or the system—which makes a person dull and uninquisitive.One belongs to religion X, and by doing so, he cannot belong to religion Y and Z.
If you are fortunate (?) and belong to a major group, you do not need to justify your actions, you can come up with a Final Solution, or obliterate minority in the name of peace.Only 400 years ago people thought the world was flat; now we know otherwise.
During this time, he read many philosophical books, including that of K, which highly influenced him.
Denzel is reading a book in one of his scenes in the historical autobiographic movie based on a legendary boxer from Paterson, Nj. The man recently passed away this year.
But In the movie, Denzel is reading this very exact book in his cell block while awaiting appeal.
Reading the book I got halfway till I realized I should be highlighting some of these gems, its complex yet simplistic.
Break it down to levels of the heart so it's feltThis book may be an uncomfortable read but give it a shot, chew it up.
..Moments hit u in between your thought patterns.
I never thought I would read and enjoy Philosophy at this time, however, once I started reading it, I was understanding what was being said and I kept on going.
It talks about some of the lessons taught by Vipassana and goes even more meta about thought and intelligence.
He keeps coming back to the fact that you, as an intelligent person, a curious person, has to have immense energy and enthusiasm to inquire about how life works.
You cannot just listen to someone, whether it be a priest or guru or teacher (including himself!), and understand how thought and mind works, you have to inquire.
I watched a couple talks by Krishnamurti earlier this year and his ideas about letting go of ideals has been bouncing around my head since then.
Krishnamurti teaches that ideals are fabrications of a reality that does not exist and he teaches that we should not cloud our present thought with such delusions.
It is very refreshing to read Krishnamurti as he describes thought as a mechanical process and intelligence as a process released from thought.
Thought as measurable and intelligence as immeasurable.
Krishnamurti repeats a similar simple but difficult lesson throughout the book.
Not an easy read. Definitely helpful to have at least a beginners level understanding of "New Age" thinking prior to reading although can understand with a little extra thought if unfamiliar. Great ideas and ways of thinking about human experiences (pain, suffering, love, attachment, intelligence, etc.). This is definitely a book you need a pen and highlighter for and perhaps even notes to organize your thoughts alongside Krishna's. This book has already expanded my viewpoint of "the center" vs. "the outside".
It is a very deep book, I wouldn't say it was too fast either. i think the size of the book clearly shows one of the most important thing J Krishnamurti has said, the questions are empty, and only so much can be said(it gets repetitive towards the end). But that does not mean in any way that one shouldn't read through the book, for I could discern more clarity towards the end and the conversations with Swami Venkatesananda and David Bohm are truly remarkable!
