https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191170.Giggle_Giggle_Quack
More surreal, anarchic farmyard fun from Cronin and Lewin. This one is almost as funny as Click, Clack, Moo: Cows That Type and the ink and watercolour illustrations are great. Quacking stuff!Watch out for that duck, though... He's a sly one.
This book confirms what you probably already know: ducks are jerks. You think you can go on vacation, but no. Soon they are launching an insurrection, trying to overthrow the proxy you left in place and bankrupting you with lavish movie and pizza parties while their piggish friends literally bath themselves in luxuries at your expense. Ducks, man. Ducks.
When you have a duck in your farm and you plan to go on a vacation, leaving your brother in charge of everything, what you don't know is that your tricky duck can make your brother do all that it wants in no time! From throwing regal pizza parties to conducting spectacular movie watching sessions, your duck can do all of it. You didn't know that, did you?
This book sends my 3-year old granddaughter into fits of giggles and she'll probably always look at ducks with distrust now. She was able to grasp the concept of the story: that some of the narration came from notes, and that the notes were not written by the farmer. She loves sneaky little animals, and this duck is the sneakiest.It's great fun and I don't mind reading it over and over again. This gets 5+ stars from both of us.
This is a funny and entertaining book for readers in the younger years of elementary school!
It gives life and personality to all the different animals living on Farmer Browns farm!
Farmer Brown has to live and puts his brother in charge of the animals, warning him in advance about the mischievous duck!
As Bob, Farmer Browns brother, is doing his very unique chore list for the animals he starts to think something may be up.
Little did he know the duck had made a chore list to benefit all the animals!
This is a fun read any child between 4-7 would really enjoy!
My kids and I love these books! Very creative.
Farmer Brown and his independent-minded animals return in this hilarious follow-up to  Click, Clack, Moo: Cows That Type , where they made their debut. As the farmer prepares to go on his vacation, he leaves instructions for his brother Bob on how to care for the animals, little dreaming that scheming Duck has taken a hand in matters, substituting his own instructions. Soon the animals are enjoying pizza parties, bubble baths, and movie night...Like its predecessor, Giggle, Giggle, Quack pairs a
Soon the animals are enjoying pizza parties, bubble baths, and movie night...Like its predecessor, Giggle, Giggle, Quack pairs an amusing tale of animal shenanigans from author Doreen Cronin with humorously expressive artwork from illustrator Betsy Lewin.
Appropriately enough, given the title, I found myself giggling quite a bit as I read the story, and although quite aware of who the culprit was, when it came to the miscommunication between Farmer Brown and his brother, I still enjoyed watching events unfold.
Recommended to anyone who has read and enjoyed 
, as well as to anyone looking for barnyard stories with a silly sense of humor.
Fun, but not as good as Click Clack Moo.
Andrea Thomas11/12/17Text to Teaching ConnectionWhat a cute and funny little book.
This is a great book to help the children know what animals are on a farm and what a farmer does while he is taking care of his farm on a daily basics.
A good song to sing will be Farmer in the Dell and allow all of the children to pick a certain animal in which they like.
Also we allow the children to walk around and pretend to be the animal in which they like the most.
Read to find out!Like Click Clack Moo, Cows that Type, this story has the same premise of Farmer Brown’s animals communicating to humans through written messages, and manipulating the humans to get what they want.
The fun story makes the animals feel just like humans, like any one of us (I mean, who wouldn’t want anchovies on their pizza?) When Brother Bob checks on the animals in the barn after a pizza dinner, they are all curled up on the heated blankets they bargained for in Click Clack Moo, Cows that Type, a fun detail for those children who can make that connection.
Giggle Giggle Quack by Doreen Cronin, illustrated by Betsy Lewin is a follow-up to Click Clack Moo: Cows That Type by the same team.
There is a great picture of the animals using the electric blankets from Click Clack Moo: Cows That Type.The picture of duck vibrating as he uses the electric pencil sharpener is a scream.
Bravo!This could be effective as a read-aloud, and is sure to to make most children giggle or laugh out loud.For K - 3rd, read-aloud, farm animals, animal sounds, humor, deceiving, tricksters tales, and for fans of Click Clack Moo: Cows That Type and fans of Doreen Cronin and Betsy Lewin.
His brother Bob comes to take care of the animals when Farmer Brown goes on vacation.
The animals leave notes that trick Bob into doing things they want such as ordering pizza and giving them baths in the house.
In the end Farmer Brown is upset when he figures out what is happening.
This book is most appropriate for primary grade students, although it could be used to explain inferencing to older students.
Younger students could look at clues in the pictures to try to figure out who is writing the notes.
The pictures are wonderful and the book is humorous, so children would enjoy it.
Another cute Doreen Cronin Duck book. I have to admit that this duck is charming with all of his troublemaking ways. Julia got the biggest kick out of him carrying around his pencil for the whole book. I liked how fast she grasped that it wasn't the farmers notes Bob was reading but Duck's. She picked up on this a few seconds after I did which surprised me. Duck is really a lovable character and Betsy Lewin's illustrations are pretty cool too. Very kid friendly and Julia loves that as well.
I think even if one hasn't read the other Duck books, they'll get the humor from this. (Though there are tidbits missed if you don't know/remember why the cows have electric blankets, or why the farmer says to keep any eye on duck.) Still, humorous to see what the duck changes and the giggling that happens. So much like with a substitute teacher....6/8/16 Used in Q is for... theme. Went well. The kids liked the pictures. One boy who knew the book kept tring to show off by telling ahead of time, therefore spoiling it at times. oh well
This sequel to "Click, Clack, Moo: Cows that type" is also engaging and fun. The premise is that Duck, (the former mediator) is now influencing things for his own benefit when the farmer goes on vacation and leaves his brother, Bob, in charge.A delightful read, that possesses a bit less zip than the last book simply because the concept is no longer new (having been done in the previous book). A great book to check out from the library
I really enjoyed this fun little book! I love how they mentioned that Duck was such a troublemaker because if you have read the other books in this series you would know! I love how they made the parody of sound of music with sound of moosic! The duck is all doing what the animals feel what they deserve so I guess it is a good thing they are getting pampered while Farmer Brown is away!
I give this 4 stars because my husband and kids love these books so much. I don't love them quite as much, but Daddy and the kids sure do get a kick out of them!!
More, more, more. Quacking idea. Udderly brilliant! See what I did there?
Read this in Storytime and the children and I had fun guessing what silliness the duck would do next.
Children's bookVery short, loads of fun! Highly recommend. Great book for a "Q" title challenge. I read this needing a book originally published in 2002. A very short book!
Full review here:http://landismom.wordpress.com/2006/0...
With the pencil Farmer Brown throws on the ground, Duck writes a note each night to Bob making his own to-do list.
Little does Bob know that the culprit behind the notes is none other than Duck.
Farmer Brown calls to check in only to hear “giggle, giggle, quack, giggle moo, giggle oink”I thought this book was very funny and fun to read.
It had great illustrations that showed what was going on which added more humor to the story.
Giggle, Giggle, Quack would be a great book for beginner readers.
I thought this book was very humorous.
The beginning of the novel used foreshadowing when farmer bob was warned about Duck.
The illustrator also used vectors to engage the reader's eyes on certain aspects of the images.
For example, on the cover page, the duck is the largest image, so it makes the reader focus on that object.
The story then ends with the duck holding a note saying "It's for you bob," which is funny because the whole time Bob was written notes to make sure that everything was taken care of and that duck did not have a bad influence.
Humor for both children and adults fills the pages of GIGGLE, GIGGLE, QUACK.
The cover picture with a pencil in the duck's mouth and the laughing expressions on the farm animals' faces is just the beginning.
As Farmer Brown leaves for vacation, his brother, Bob, is in charge.
He gives Brother Bob detailed instructions with a particular warning to watch Duck!
Duck and his pencil change the daily instructions: feed the cows pizza, bathe the pigs using Farmer Brown's special soap and have movie night on Thursday.
The pictures support the narrative and vis versa as young children and adults delight in the naughtiness of Duck.
Giggle, Giggle, Quack is a very fun and engaging book.
The farmer goes on vacation and leave his brother to watch his farm.
He clearly tells his brother to watch out for the duck.
When the farmer leaves, the duck starts leaving silly notes for the brother Bob. These notes included giving the chickens pizza for dinner and cleaning the pigs in the bath with the farmers good towels.
The farmer calls to check on his brother and that is when Farmer Brown realizes the duck was up to no good.
Poor Bob leaves the farm because he was tricked by the duck.
Giggle, Giggle, Quack is such a fun book. It is interesting to see how these animals act like children. My favorite part was how the Duck made a note for Bob to order pizza and give it to the animals. The intelligence of this Duck is gives him such a personality. Duck outsmarted Bob even after Farmer Brown had warned him to keep an eye on him. This book is geared more towards primary grades. It can be used to teach behavior in a way, but also that you will eventually get caught.
Farmer Brown was going on vacation, so he gave his brother Bob his pencil and a list of instructions. As he was leaving he warned Bob to keep an eye on the duck who was trouble. What they didn't notice is that the duck took the pencil.Bob followed instructions closely, but the instructions had been rewritten by the duck. Bob was tricked into giving the animals on the farm luxuries they didn't ordinarily have. Funny story.
This book is about a bunch of animals on a farm, but the duck is always getting into trouble. The farmer leave, and has his friend take care of them. He has to do all sorts of things for them, and as soon as he turns his back, the duck takes the phone and writes him a silly note! This book is super adorable. Especially if you read it to your students in silly voices, and had hand puppets or something. Definitely will be putting books like this into my library!!
This book is about responsibility. Bob thought he could keep everything under control, but the animals made it a different story. There is detail in every picture whether it be lines for the fence, what the animals are doing, or facial expressions. People or animals may act a certain way for certain people, but different around others.
Very cute and funny story! This is a great book for young kids that are not yet reading or are beginning to read.The illustrations are perfect and go right along with the story to enhance it.It's a short book, but that works well when trying to hold the attention of a small child. I'm very interested in reading the other similar books this author has written with my child.
