https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175278.The_Glorious_Cause
This book tends to be tedious even if informative with the occasional social commentary by the author.
That said, there's some really good information here especially about the many battles and fumbles and stumbles made by Washington (mediocre to average military commander, better politician).Where's a fair assessment of Benedict Arnold's turning on us?
Middlekauff operates in black and white perspectives especially when it comes to deifying the "good" Founding Fathers.
I took a course on the American Revolution with the author, expecting some focus on the military aspects and surprisingly got almost nothing.
Like the book Middlekauf's views of the Founding Fathers tended to be black and white.
You're at Lexington and Concord.Not this time.I've been reading history for over 50 years and this is the first book I've found that explained to me in detail why the British did what they did, why the colonists did what they did, and why it all led to war and independence.
The only reason I kept it a four stars is because Mr. Middlekauff gets a little "dry" at times, but he more than makes up for it in solid substance.On last thought: This is the third volume of the "Oxford History of the United States" — each by a different author — that I've read and each has been excellent.
A fantastic look at the American Revolution.
This is the ONE book to read if you are fresh off the boat and looking for early American History.
It is Vol 3.
of the eventual 12 volume Oxford History of the United States (although it was first to be published).
He isn't looking to reinvent, revise, or revoke history.
His narrative captures the brilliance of, and the almost accidental start of, the American Republic.
Anyway, it was a great book.
And even if you aren't fresh of the boat, it is a great review of the Revolutionary War and Continental Congress.
The Americans (and Britons) who ensured that it didn't are well detailed in many sidebars throughout.The other interesting thing I continue to see again and again as I read more of the history of the United States is to see how so many of our current dilemmas, arguments, problems, etc were baked right into the United States from its earliest days - indeed, some even before the very founding of the republic.
Likewise, it is amusing (if disappointing) to see some of the titans in the American pantheon wrestling luridly in the political mud with their opponents - right up to and incuding vitriolic personal attacks, doctrinaire thinking, and hyperbolic rhetoric.
The story ends with George Washington taking office as the first President of the United States.We tend to think of the American Revolution as happening from 1774-1783 but Middelkauff believes that it began in the 1760s.
He also points out that the Revolution does not end at Yorktown or the Treaty of Paris but with the Constitutional Convention, the Constitution's ratification, and the inauguration of President George Washington.One of the main sources of disagreement with Great Britain and her colonies was two very different views that were held on the unwritten constitution of the British Empire.
The subject matter would consist of a series of books by distinguished historians, each focusing on an important era of American History, from colonial times to the present day, in random order.
Various religious and deist faiths were followed, but most thinkers of the era believed passionately in adhering to a faith based on guidance derived from "Providence." The providential order in the 13 English colonies originally justified faith in the British empire.
The post-French and Indian years are represented by ever-more stringent authority imposed by Britain on the colonies, followed by American reactions, causing stronger British actions and leading to more aggressive American reactions.
This is a good overview of the American Revolution with rare shortcomings.If you want an extensive overview of the dominant personalities in the period, long descriptions of the battles, or a roving look at each colony one-by-one, look elsewhere.
For example, he says that a group of elites led the way for normal people throughout the entirety of the Revolution, something that the first few chapters of his book contradict.
And for God’s sake, Ben Franklin wanted royal government long after the other colonists did.Still, I would recommend this book to anyone.
Middlekauff does a great job of explaining how pivotal the Seven Years' War was in American History as it forced England to re-examine her relationship to her American colonies.
Middlekauff delves into all the the parts of "pre-revolutionary" America you thought you knew about, such as the Tea Party, and reports what actually happened there.The book also shows the human side of the American army, and how Washington wrestled with the fact that many were unwilling to fight.
The book does provide a solid picture of the political and military history of the period.
Wow. The Glorious Cause is the most comprehensive history of the American Revolution I know.
Middlekauff's history is as huge as those 26 years.The early chapters are busy with analysis of the causes of the Revolution and with debunking some myths.
Britain, for instance, expected the colonies to pay part of the maintenance of those army units provided for frontier defense following the French and Indian War. Some of the misunderstanding was partly to do with the British government's unfamiliarity with life in America and the great Atlantic distance involved in communicating.
Then, there are a couple of chapters of cross-sectional material describing generalities of life during the war and a little bit about politics, but those, while interesting at some level, seemed almost distracting since I hadn't seen them coming and didn't know where the book was to head after them.
I really think that, had the chapters been organized into explicit sections, it would have worked perfectly.My biggest hope heading into the book was to see into the minds of the founding fathers, and my biggest fear was that it would serve as propaganda for one modern ideology or another.
I'm sure there are dozens of wonderful books out there about the Revolutionary era, but for a well-written, scholarly, one-volume modern history of the whole era, I'm not sure the Oxford series can be beat.
Not only do I desperately want to learn more about the French Revolution, but now I also can't wait to pick up the next volume in the series, Empire of Liberty by Gordon Wood - who, as it happens, also wrote a one-volume history of the revolutionary war as well as the Pulitzer winning The Radicalism of the American Revolution.More to come on this era in future reviews!
The author seemed to write as though he were only repeating a story we've all heard a number of times before and was rushing to be done with the important bits "everybody knows." While this may be true for some history buffs, the purpose of the Oxford History is to provide a broad narrative accessible to the lay reader.
James McPherson's masterpiece Battle Cry of Freedom provides a helpful comparison: one need know little about the Civil War to fully engage the scholarship he offers.For the reader already familiar with the Revolution however, Middlekauf's book is a helpful overview to refresh your memory and perhaps explore some hidden corners of the Revolution not often discussed (e.g. the British politics mentioned above).
Now, as there's plenty of 'everyone knows' bits about the American Revolution, that's not awful here, but this is definitely an introductory book, and I think it assumes too much on occasion.It is at its best in the early chapters, which deal with the decade or more of political problems that lead up to the outbreak of hostilities.
They are quite informative, but this is also where Middlekauff seems to rely on 'everyone knows' information, as a few people like Benjamin Franklin are never examined.
This audiobook was over 26 hours long but it’s one of the best books I’ve found that really examines in detail the politics, the battles and the personalities of the American Revolution.
I found this brief review sums it up better than I could.There's really almost nothing to criticize in "The Glorious Cause." It is, in nearly every respect, an outstanding work of history.
When I finished reading "The Glorious Cause," I felt as if I had actually been there at some of the great battles of the war.
It gets a five because it is such a comprehensive history of the birth of the American Republic.
This book is part of the Oxford Series on American History.
Reading this book in 2017 reminds the reader that the Constitution was written by men and not Gods.
Although the Constitution has served us well, it may need 21st-century revisions.
The Electoral College is obviously out-of-date.
It is just not fair as it is obviously too undemocratic.
Aside from that, this book should be required reading for anyone who wants to be a US Representative either in the House or Senate.
The American Revolution in a single 700-page volume. A little dense, but well worth the effort.
The Glorious Cause is a great objective history of the American Revolution.
Anyone can take advantage of them and become a revolutionary for good.If there is a weakness to the book, it is that the author assumes the reader has a pretty robust understanding of North American history prior to 1763.
The founders, especially Franklin, Madison, and Wilson, believed that the Convention must risk all, indeed risk the revolution, by trusting the virtue of the American people.”— Glorious Cause, pg.
Middlekauff also provides a great introduction to the Seven Years War. This leads well into the Revolution itself.
The heavy emphasis on the Revolution and the war eclipse the Constitutional Convention and the ultimate lessons of the time period.
Only about three chapters are dedicated to this important part of the history.
This may also lead into bad lessons learned (i.e. America's military successes are what made the Revolution successful).
On the other hand, heavy and dense serves as a good anchor to tether your understanding of America's birth.
The Glorious Cause: The American Revolution 1763-1789 by Robert Middlekauff is a book that depicts the glorious battles of the war and its political struggle and ideals all in one fell swoop.
the story of the book is, for lack of a better word, history.
I read this book because I made a deal with my history teacher, and I rather enjoyed it.
Being a long, but good book only history nerds should read it.
But the overall argument of what the real revolution was in of itself makes this book worth the read to begin with.
This overview of the causes and results of the struggle for American independence takes 250 pages to detail the numerous causes and grievances that led to the conflict, 350 pages to detail the military history of the battlefield conflicts themselves, and the final 100 pages to enumerate the need and drafting of the Constitution.
The detailed war section is a strength, as most books covering this era tend to gloss over the details, as well as the blow-by-blow account of the Constitutional Convention itself.
It would be hard to go wrong with this one volume account, which leaves us at Washington's Inauguration.
" The Americans answer was the political understanding established in the years of the Revolution.This answer has posed a challenge for Americans ever since-to act in ways that capture the wisdom of their revolutionary past." Great book,for me 300 pages to long but for hard core historians a great read.

The Revolutionary period is my favorite period of American history as the "idea" of America continues to exercise a powerful hold on my imagination.
Sometimes, I wonder whose side I would have been on had I been alive at the time as the history reveals that it was not all good guys vs.
from the first rumblings of discontent with British rule all the way through each key battle of the war for independence and on to the attempts to define America through the Articles of Confederation and the Constitutional Convention.I'm not remotely an expert on American history, so I can't comment much on content.
I liked "The Glorious Cause" a lot, finding it as complete a history of Revolutionary period of the United States as I've found.
Robert Middlekauff, the author, presents a well researched factual account which spans the time period from roughly the French and Indian War until the ratification of the constitution.
All are well represented in "Cause." This is the first book I've read on the subject which has covered each of the colonies as separate entities as no two were even similar in their viewpoints.
If you read just one book on the Revolution, this is it.
This book is an onerous, though rewarding, introductory historical text.
It doesn't offer much commentary outside the battles and conventions--though I wouldn't expect as much from a general history from 30 years ago.
Middlekauff acquits himself well, and he knows his stuff.
The best moments (among the 600+ pages) are when Middlekauff lets his hair down a little bit and gently ribs the Founding Fathers as if they were his old school chums.
Now, I'm looking for texts that challenge, rather then expound, the traditional historical narrative.
I came to this book after reading 1776 by McCullough and wishing I could finish the war.
As a result, the book is hardly as entertaining as 1776, but the picture it presents of the era is often more illuminating.
I finished this book feeling as if I had lived through the era and had a limited understanding of the broader context.If you are willing to read through passages that may not be immediately entertaining, and if you can stay interested for 687 pages you will be very glad you read this book.
Part of the Oxford History of the United States, this is the 2nd edition of the title and has been extensively revised. It's a challenging read. SPOILER-The British lose.
Wow, I never knew how much I didn't know! Still couldn't pass a quiz on the American Revolution though. Liked the tangents more than battle descriptions.
The book tries to layout the details of the war, plus the causes through the reaction of the 13 colonies and the politics of England.The book covers events from the year 1763 AD to 1789 AD.
These years cover from the end of the French & Indian war, the North American theater of the Seven Years’ War, up through the Constitutional Convention and general acceptance of the American Constitution.Through these topics, Prof.
In attempting to lay a foundation for the war, the author covers many events and persons.
Hence the bureaucratsand, with the help of newspapers, the rest of the populace, started tothink of themselves as Americans and consider Britts to be outsiders,"their" taxes as unjust and "their" army as a "foreign" occupationforce.In substance, it seems that Great Britain was treating its Americancolonies as just that: colonies existing to enrich the mother country.I think in early 18th century one of the British prime-ministers saidso in these exact words.
Hence, the separate identity was essentially forced on theAmericans by the British themselves.BTW, another annoyance of Middlekaupf(sp?) is that he does not coverthe french and indian war at all, even though it has direct relationto the r*volution, especially when the hostilities started.
