https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93729.Princess_in_Waiting
When you reread one of your favourite childhood series, and you discover that it contains racist comments:Lars looked especially menacing on account of being all darkly tanned from his month off. page 61 of my 2007 editionBecause dark-skinned men are a menace. And because the colour of your skin indicates your level of agression. Right.My initial three-star-rating has been removed.
EVERY BOOK IN THIS SERIES HAS THE CUTEST ENDING AND I END UP SWOONING LIKE CRAZY BECAUSE MICHAEL MOSCOVITZ OMFG
She was in Europe yet l she could think about was missing Michael..
First, she goes through that phase where she reads Jane Eyre and thinks she should ignore Michael and basically play hard to get.
Okay girl, I just read pages after pages of you missing him and now you're NOT going to call him back?
She is expected to doubt herself and their relationship (I mean like Mia said they haven't even been out yet) I'm just looking forward to the future books when she matures a bit.
I still love this series and enjoyed this book, Mia just annoyed me a bit though.
Actual rating 3.5 stars Least favorite so far in the series. Mia took a drastic turn in this book and was pretty obsessed with a boy and nothing else. Granted, she is 14 years old so it's understandable to a point, but she was a bit melodramatic in this one. Still enjoyed overall and will continue the series though!
I can praise Michael Moscovitz forever and ever and ever. Mia was a little more annoying in this one than I remembered so I docked it a star, but still so fun!
Good but didn't enjoy this like the previous books.I wish something significant will happen in the next.
"How do I know Michael hasn't met some other girl?Some Floridian girl, with long,sun-streaked hair, and a tan,and breasts? Who has access to the Internet and isn't cooped up in a palace with her crazy grandma,a homeless,Speedo-wearing prince and a freakish,hairless miniature poodle?" I missed The Princess Diaries so much!I loved reading about Mia's adventures in Genovia and Grandmère's schemes.Also,love the movie refrences-Meg Cabot sure knows how to make her readers laugh! "Hello," Lilly said.
"How do I know Michael hasn't met some other girl?Some Floridian girl, with long,sun-streaked hair, and a tan,and breasts?
I missed The Princess Diaries so much!I loved reading about Mia's adventures in Genovia and Grandmère's schemes.Also,love the movie refrences-Meg Cabot sure knows how to make her readers laugh!
"Hello," Lilly said."Movie.
"You know I don't like to contradict your grandmother ..."This was the biggest lie I'd heard since the Prince of Liechtenstein told me I waltzed divinely,but I let it slide,on account of Mom's condition."
It's been a while since I've read the first three books from The Princess Diaries series and I kind of forgot how Mia was but this book definitely reminded me pretty quickly.
I can't wait for Mia to get more self-esteem.
Can that please not happen in the next book?I didn't even care about Mia and Michael's relationship throughout this book.
I pray to god that the next book wont be so boring because I will have regretted trying to finish this series so much.
Because even a princess has to have fun sometimes. 'The Princess Diaries: Mia Goes Fourth' is a short but delightful read. I loved reading this novel and I'm looking forward to picking up the next book in the series! ^ ^On a whole another note: I love Chris Pine in Princess Diaries 2 (the movie) :D
3.5 stars.Soooo much of this book was Mia doubting Michael's love for her, and that drove me a bit crazy. However, the cuteness level is still through the roof & I love it. Also, I adore Michael as a character.
Esse foi o mais fraquinho até agora. Ele se baseia mto na insegurança na Mia no relacionamento (o que é muito crível pra uma menina de auto estima baixa como ela), mas por conta disso a história não andou. Se vc for resumir não aconteceu quase nada e o payoff foi mto no finalzinho. Quero mais Michaeeellll!!
Eu tinha esquecido como esses livro se passam em um período de tempo tão curto. As referências são maravilhosas, mas esse foi o mais monótono até agora porque a Mia é insegurança em pessoa e a minha vontade era de chegar: MIGA SOU LOUCA, MENOS! E aí lembro de como todos fomos com 14-15 anos. \_(ツ)_/
Eu tinha esquecido como esses livro se passam em um período de tempo tão curto. As referências são maravilhosas, mas esse foi o mais monótono até agora porque a Mia é insegurança em pessoa e a minha vontade era de chegar: MIGA SOU LOUCA, MENOS! E aí lembro de como todos fomos com 14-15 anos. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
It is hard to love a book when you are annoyed by the protagonist. And boy, was I annoyed of Mia's insecurity! When you are emotionally invested in a series, and halfway down the line, the lead starts to piss you off, it gets awkward as a reader and you don't know whether to continue the series or not. I'm glad I decided to continue because the climax was awesome. Meg Cabot surely knows how to end a book in a way that makes the reader swoon!
This like all of them so far was cute but now I'm thinking about Mia outside of her journal and I think she's a pretty normal girl that we've all hung out with but didn't know her deepest insecurities.
Michael is just so dreamy but I'm literally reading all these to see if he's in it for the long haul with Mia lol he is going to college soon.
Mia writes about missing Michael in the American version, in the U.K. version she's calling him all the time after he finally figures out her number, I'm confused by this modification.
My main clue: her constant fretting over whether Michael loved her as just a friend or whether he was going to dump her because she wouldn't be able to make their date.Lilly wasn't a bother to me in this book.
I feel like this book wasn't needed.
She made me wonder if I too was this annoying when I was 14.**Just a little extra thing here: I felt a bit strange (I don't want to say offended because I think that's too strong a word for what I want to say) that they used Jane Eyre as a means of relationship advice/material.
Now this one I liked better than I remembered!
Mostly my memories were of Mia's worry about Michael "loving" her versus being "in love" with her.
I still think that's kind of silly, but I felt more sympathy for her overall.
(I think I read this around when it came out, so I would've been 19 or so.
Almost-32 me sees it in a different light, I guess.)And there was more to the rest of it than I remembered.
I liked seeing Mia in Genovia.
I kind of forgot how into him everyone was once upon a time.
TIME PASSES.
This book is probably the worst princess diaries book I've ever read.
It is okay but the entire story is about Mia in Genovia (the small European country she will one day rule) and she is missing Micheal her boy friend.
It is very annoying to here her constantly talk about Micheal and if he is going to break up with her or not.
After I read this book I decided to take a break from the Princess Diaries books because I just couldn't take it!
Mia was becoming too Micheal-obsessed and the books were not interesting anymore.
I am seriously falling in love with this series all over again. I just love how Meg Cabot writes these books. Mia is like the quintessential teenager (minus the being the princess, obviously), who is just trying to get by in life. And I love it. I love how throughout the entire book she is so worried about Michael dumping her CLEARLY he is in love with her, and has been for quite some time. I mean, that just SOUNDS like a teenage girl. These books will be forever in my heart, I just love them too much.
Not my favorite but still super cute! On to the next one :)
De más está decir que este tomo me decepcionó. A esta altura todos sabemos que la personalidad de Mía es bastante... particular y es lo que la hace tan querible, pero en este libro está simplemente insoportable por un plot que ni siquiera ameritaba tanto drama INCLUSO HASTA PARA ELLA.Iba camino a convertirse en un libro de dos estrellas pero los finales de esta serie siempre remontan. Espero, por Dios, que esto mejore más adelante.
And what with trying to help boost Genovia's infrastructure income, trying to find time to text her beloved, and worrying about the perfect present for his birthday, this Christmas vacation is anything but restful.After reading the first book in this series I went to the library and just happened to see the rest of the books (11 of them) sitting on the shelf so I loaded them into my bag and found myself diving into a week long Princess fest.
And I enjoyed ever minute of it!This whole series is a fun, light hearted read, though in some of the later books, it focuses more on sex (talk rather than action) than some parents might find appropriate for their teen daughters.
This book is when they really started getting fun for me.
No wonder I was confused.Normally Mia is already on the border of being slightly annoying, slightly whiny and a bit weird, but it felt like the dial was upped to over 9000 in this book.
Still we get some stupid situations with this girl, and I will stick to wondering on how these 2 are friends.Normally there are various things happening in Mia's world, and a lot of them are interesting, but this book was just horrendous.
It’s like the audience is waiting for the actual book to begin and gets stuck on Meg Cabot Airlines reading some stupid day planner.That’s what it really felt like to me.I could care less what happens in Genovia.It’s a fictional country that really bad movies take place in, that’s all I need to know.When the actual book starts-meaning, when Mia returns home to New York-there’s really not a plot.
Princess Mia was finally in Genovia with her Grandmere, and her princess lessons continued during her winter break.
When she met the people of Genovia, Mia had unintentionally started a debate about the installation of parking meters in the place, which didn't bode well with her constituents.
I just thought Princess Mia complained a lot in this book.
Too un-princess-like?
Insecurities aside, I will still continue with the series - I have book 5 ready for my perusal - and hopefully, Mia would grow up and be more mature.

Not the best in the series so far, but still a fun, quick read. Mia was a little whiny and annoying in this one, but I did understand. She's 14, it's all very confusing at that age. I was completely stupid at 14, and looking back now I'm really embarrassed at some of the things I did/said. Enjoying my reread of the series a lot, and if I remember correctly, the series gets better as Mia matures!
I really enjoyed "Princess in Training" book 4 in the Princess Diaries series by Meg Cabot. I've been listening to this series via audio book and I've really enjoyed the characters coming to life. It's a very light reading and pretty deep in the YA genre, but I've found myself laughing at some of Mia's antics and just love the "first love" between her and Michael.Happy Reading...enjoy
I think that I actually read this previously and forgot to mark that I had, on Goodreads. This wasn't bad, but I didn't enjoy it as much as the other installments. Part of it could be that I'm reading these as an adult, rather than a teenager, now, so Mia's insecurity, while familiar, starts to feel redundant. I had a lot of fun reading all the very 2000-ish references.
Hey, let’s play a game. What game, you ask? Simple; "Come up with an alternate, better name for the book you have just read!”. I love this game. Here are my top three names for Princess in Waiting:1- Princess in the Psychotic Ward2- Princess Completely Demented3- Hilariously Infuriatingly Stupid PrincessLet me tell you something. The whining was totally controlled and balanced. Mia complained about everything but in a limited and well-proportioned capacity. That’s supposed to be good, right? Wel
Well, it would have been if not for the fact that the whining gave way to obsession.
She let her imagination run wild in a gazillion different directions, believed what she was imagining to be hypothetically true and then spent every waking moment obsessing over it.
For a girl who yearns to be self-actualized (she wrote it in her diary among the list of things she had to do, like it’s that easy), she seemed to be running dangerously low on self-esteem and that comes before in Maslow's pyramid.I was 14 once.
A single thing of importance did squeeze out, Mia discovered her talent; unconditional whining writing!
Mia is still a lovable, quirky, down to earth girl who has recently learned she is the Princess of Geneovia.
I was hoping there would be a huge commotion when she visited Geneovia, but instead all that happened was a recital of her daily calendar of Princess duties and her continued countdown of when Mia gets to see Michael again.
The one thing I really like about this book is that Mia came to the realization (with a little help from Lily and Michael) she is not talentless after all and has found her gift.
