https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18427201-mad-magazine-1
This is where all that MADness started - the usual gang of idiots. The seeds are all here. Super cool to see the beginning.
Having grown up loving Mad Magazine, was amazed at how much the very first issue sucked.
First edition madwas funny but not 2014 funny just joined at Jaylon jet Jaylon aha Josh's have h. ha ha aha. what I did that cause I need 14 words to submit
Going back to my childhood.When I was just becoming a teenager I went to a friend's house for a visit.
He was reading a comic book, but there was something different about this comic book.
When I asked about it, he showed me a copy of MAD MAGAZINE.
I don't remember what number it was, but as I turned the pages, I knew that it was different from all the other comics that were available at that time of of our lives.
I couldn't get enough of of MAD comics.
To make a long story short, "MAD" became so popular that the stores had trouble keeping them in the racks.
I haven’t been following up on the Mad Magazine and I was surprised at how contemporary this magazine is!
Not only does the magazine cover recent topics as a parody of Netflix show House of Cards, but also the current events like the recent Oscars or the Star Wars franchise makes it relevant with comical illustrations.
Upon further research, I was surprised at the edgy nature of this magazine.
For that reason, it became apparent satirical magazines are more than just humorous view of current event but a moral vindication of what the reality is about.
When I Spent A DimeWhen I Spent A DimeYep. That's what Mad comics cost back in 1952.
And my friends and I wet ourselves laughing after we forked over the money.....
Our folks had no idea what the humor was....ah, but we did.
Words and expressions like "hoo hah", "What, me worry?, "veeblefetzer", "Mr. Fonebone" and "axelotel" crept into our everyday conversations.
Harvey Kurtzman became our mirth mentors along with Will Elder and other young-Turk comic artists.
This first issue is a watershed moment in the art of graphic humor and should not be missed......even at .99¢.
(Hoo ha!!!)
Although it was a first issue, I found it completely uninteresting. I suppose with it, at the time, just coming out they were a bit in a hurry to see how the issue would fare before offering up more funnier issues.
short and sweet...... good fun read with light chuckles. You have to like MAD first, definitely a different kind of magazine to read.
It's ok... slightly entertaining.... I guess that this magazine was much more interesting to me back when I was a kid.
I liked the first two comics, but the last two bored me.
Madgreatfunny too wish the other books were free but u know whatever . . . . . . .
ClassicI really enjoyed reading the 'old school' Mad. I grew up on reading this magazine in the 70s and really enjoy the older issues. Gaines and his crew were comic geniuses!
fatThis book was fat and yummy N n n n m m m b he hb hang hb o pig
It's MadThe pace is a bit slower and I'm sure the gags were new in the day, but it's a fun read and a fascinating look at the birth of an institution, one I wouldn't mind being committed to.
This is where it all started. Not the greatest issue but the artwork and the thought process behind MAD comics is clearly there to see!!
Funny
ClassicI can see the genesis for dozens of National Lampoon gags right here in this first issue of MAD Magazine.
