https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50544._night_Mother
Chilling in its message and delivered with no intermission, 'Night, Mother tells the tale of a mother and daughter grappling to stay afloat in life.
Following her latest episode a year earlier which resulted in her husband Cecil leaving and divorcing her, Jessie has moved back home with her mother Thelma.
In her tale of Southern grit, Norman brings issues like mental health diseases and suicide to a forefront at a time when society was first becoming aware of the issues at large.
Having read many Pulitzer winning plays this year, I rate 'Night, Mother highly, both for its genre of female Southern grit and its message about mental health awareness.
عالی بود،عالی،واقعا موقع خوندنش یه جاهایی نفسم میگرفت،حرفهای یک مادر و دختر در مدت یکی دو ساعت،تلاش برای حرف زدن و درک همدیگه در زمان باقیمانده،تلاش برای توضیح دادن،یه برخورد کامل،با حرفهایی که فقط در موقعیت های خاص میتونن بین دو نفر رد و بدل بشن،حرفهایی که .جنسش برای همه آشناست و همه گوشه و کنار ذهنمون این جنس حرفها رو حداقل با یه نفر داریمیکی از غمگینترین و زندهترین نمایشنامه هایی که تا به حال خوندم.
عالی بود،عالی،واقعا موقع خوندنش یه جاهایی نفسم میگرفت،حرف‌های یک مادر و دختر در مدت یکی دو ساعت،تلاش برای حرف زدن و درک همدیگه در زمان باقیمانده،تلاش برای توضیح دادن،یه برخورد کامل،با حرف‌هایی که فقط در موقعیت های خاص میتونن بین دو نفر رد و بدل بشن،حرف‌هایی که .جنسش برای همه آشناست و همه گوشه و کنار ذهنمون این جنس حرف‌ها رو حداقل با یه نفر داریمیکی از غمگین‌ترین و زنده‌ترین نمایشنامه هایی که تا به حال خوندم.
It’s hard to marry these elements, especially in literature and film, but when I come across them, I have to snatch them up!I am currently reading a literary thriller wherein the victim was murdered in such a way as to call in to question whether it was self-administered.
When perusing the victim’s bedroom, the uncanny order of the closets lead one of the detectives to question whether the victim had “arranged” things in preparation for death, as is common with many people contemplating suicide.
This brilliant Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Marsha Norman examines the conflict between the will to survive and the choice not to. The original Broadway production made a star of Kathy Bates as the suicidal woman who spends an evening preparing her mother for her departure. This is a riveting script.
I did a one person play of this and in high school!
Truly one of my favorite stories of all times. I cry every time I read it. I also wrote a 30-page paper on it, so I think it is fair to call me obsessed. It's a play, so you can easily read it in one sitting...just not on mother's day. :o)
What I would give to have seen the Kathy Bates production.
Terse, tense, and always timely, Marsha Norman's play reaches down into the depth of despair to reveal the stark reality of a dream lost and a life left unlived.
the desire to live through the eyes of Jessie, an epileptic woman in her late 30's - whose life has remained vague, despite her wish for otherwise.
Her mother, a matter-of-fact older woman, must come to face to face with the truth despite her wish to gloss it over as she battles her own mortality.
In the end, Norman gives us a play of pure power that is crowded with meaning and yet, stark in its solitude.Powerful and poignant, whether it is read or performed.
Years ago I saw part of the movie version of this play starring Sissy Spasek and Anne Bancroft.
Just the little bit I watched has stayed with me after a good 20 years or so.
'night Mother is a play about a woman named Jessie who tells her mother she has decided to commit suicide.
Jessie lists out her reasons and her mother tries to get her to change her mind.
The dialog is painful and harrowing and packs quite a punch.
If reading this had such an impact on me I can only imagine what it must have been like to see it live.
Review seen here: http://bookishnonsense.blogspot.com/2...This is one of those plays where the acting would have to be absolutely stellar. It's all tension. It's about a woman, Jessie, who very calmly goes about her day and tells her mother she is going to kill herself. It's very dark. Norman does an excellent job creating these characters and revealing their stories. There are only two characters in this play, which as I said, heightens the tension. There is no intermission, and you absolutely MUST read this in one sitting, no interruptions. 5/5
And we hear the shot, and it sounds like an answer, it sounds like No.
4 stars.
Nomadic SA Chick's Book ReviewsSummaryJessie is tired.
She's tired of her life, of disappointment, or heart-aches, and fight.
Jessie wants to die.
Recently divorced, Jessie has moved back in with her widowed mother, along with her wild-child teenage son.
I felt like it was an honest reflection of someone who is determined to end their life.
It's dark yet honest, and very raw.Ratings (based on a 10 point scale)Quality of Writing - 9Pace - 10Plot Development - 9Characters - 8Enjoyability - 9Insightfulness - 7Ease of Reading - 9Photos/Illustrations - N/AOverall Rating - 5 out of 5 stars
I first heard of this work when I watched the movie adaptation of the play.
The movie follows the script very closely, a happy rarity.
Years after watching the movie, it still comes to mind very vividly, the story compelling, the characters complex, the writing superb.
This is not a happy story, but it is very powerful, and leaves you thinking about the topics, and "what if?" thoughts for weeks afterward.
This is an amazing play to read, and powerful to watch.
I must say, I never fold towels or perform other mundane tasks without giving a thought to the main characters in this story.
Reading it as an adult was much different for me as it was when I was 10 years of age but still, I recall the same feelings and the same questions being raised in my own young mind about life and just how it can get to you, people and how the ones we love let us down the most even when it's the very last thing they intended to do, and about choices- and of course the big question of life after death.
هیجان قرارگرفتن در یک موقعیت خاص و تلاش مادر برای منصرف کردن دخترش از خودکشی. همه چیز در یک شب و در طول چند ساعت اتفاق میافتد. بسیاری از مسائل و دغدغههای دو کاراکتر این نمایش در خلال همین گفتوگو بیان میشود.
هیجان قرارگرفتن در یک موقعیت خاص و تلاش مادر برای منصرف کردن دخترش از خودکشی. همه چیز در یک شب و در طول چند ساعت اتفاق می‌افتد. بسیاری از مسائل و دغدغه‌های دو کاراکتر این نمایش در خلال همین گفت‌وگو بیان می‌شود.
Damn.
This play is amazingly disturbing.
It makes the reader, or the audience in turmoil.
They sympathize with Jessie and with her mother at the same time.
The good thing about this play is that Jessie had a chance to express herself.
She got a chance to tell the world that's a messed up place.
Jessie and Thelma are both me.
They express the inner turmoil I live in.
I would really like to kill myself, but at the same time, I don't want to go to hell, and I am afraid of death.
A brilliant play!
Marsha Norman’s play is about an epileptic woman, Jessie Cates, who has had enough of living and is tired of losing control of her life. She prepares her mother for her suicide while her mother tries to talk her out of it. Very moving!
Maybe it is better performed....but there are better stories on suicide...
थेलमाः तिमीलाई मृतयु कसतो हुनछ भनने नै थाहा छैन । तयो पुरै अशानत पनि हुन सकछ । मृतयु विहानी पखको घडिको अलारम जसतो र तिमी उठेर बनद गरनका लागी बिउझनै नसकने अवसथा जसतो भयो भने के गरछौ ?
कहिलयै बनद गरन नसकने भयो भने के गरछौ ?जेसीः मृतयु मैले चिनेका सबै वयकति र वसतुको अनुपसथिति हो । मृतयु शानत हुनछ ।थेलमाः तयो पाप हो । तिमी नरक जाने छौ ।जेसीः मलाई सोधनु हुनछ भने यशुले पनि आतमहतया गरेका थियो ।Thelma: You don't know what dead is like.
It might not be quiet at all.
What if it's like an alarm clock and y
If God had meant for people to go around without any clothes on, they'd have been born that way."****आमा छोरीको कुराकानीका क्रममा वैवाहिक जीवनका असन्तुष्टिका कुराहरु पनि बाहिर आउँछन् । एक अर्का प्रतिको अपेक्षा र घोचपेच अनि सम्बन्धका तिक्तताको कुराहरु जीवन भर नभनिएका भएपनि त्यस घडिमा बाहिरीँदै जान्छन् ।****जेसीः सेसिले मलाई छोड्नुको कारण उसले मलाई चुरोट र उ मध्ये एकलाई छान्न लगाउनु हो ।थेल्माः जेसी, मलाई थाहा छ ऊ त्यति मुर्ख छैन ।जेसीः उसले धुम्रपानलाई किन त्यति धेरै घृणा किन गथ्र्यो भन्ने मैले कहिल्यै बुझेन, जबकी त्यो कति आनन्ददायी हुन्छ । धुम्रपान नै त्यस्तो चीज हो जो सँधै अपेक्षा गरेको जस्तै हुन्छ । पछिल्लो समयको जस्तै र आफूले चाहेको बेला उपलब्ध भइहाल्न, एक दमै शान्त । Jessie: Cecil left me because he made me choose between him and smoking.Thelma: Jessie, I know he wasn't that dumb.Jessie: I never understood why he hated it so much when it's so good.
Jessie, the daughter, has suffered from epilepsy her entire life but, after being well for an entire year, decides that now is the best time for her life to end and that she must be the one who controls the circumstance under which it happens.Jessie's mother, conversely, has a hard time understanding her daughter's motivation for suicide, as she herself is afraid of death, and spends the majority of the play trying to convince her daughter not to kill herself (perhaps because she doesn't want their daily routines to change or because she doesn't want to have the responsibility of taking care of herself).
Powerfully written, excellent dialogue, 'Night Mother is a magnificent play of redemption, with one of the most iconic and powerful endings in the history of drama, redolent of a House of Dolls.
The play takes place in a house, with only two protagonists: the daughter who reveals to her mom of her intentions, and the mother who tries to stop her.
It is a riveting tale that plays on the idea of self-ownership and silent suffering--and how ultimate decisions can bring at last the peace one has looked for throughout one's life.
It is also a tale about healing and pain, all of which takes place in a single house.
I never finished a book in one sitting before because i get bored out of mind easily but i finished this one in a couple of hours.
It is so well-written and i could feel the heavy weight that is weighing down on jessie and it’s amazing because Norman didn’t even get that much into detail about the struggles that jessie went through.
I put myself in her shoes and i imagined how i would beg a loved one who wants nothing to do with their life to cling just a little bit longer.
I love it because the writing is impeccable; i hate it because it left me feeling sad and heavy.
Night Motherby Marsha Norman4 starspp.
67Night Mother by Marsha Norman, the 1983 Pulitzer winning drama is an emotionally draining play.
It has only two characters, Jessie Cates, the daughter who lives with her mother, Thelma Cates.
These are both simple country women, with Jessie being the quieter and less demonstrative and Thelma being more talkative.Jessie is around 40, epileptic, divorced with a son who is turning into a criminal.
She makes a final decision about what she will do about that and this play is about the night she means to implement her decision.
This play presents an amazing debate on personal autonomy -- our right to do what we will with our own lives.
Her mother tries every method from begging to logic to try to get her to change her mind.The play, presented in real-time, is gripping.
Norman is a powerful writer.
She creates great, flawed characters and places them in a fishbowl for us to watch as they swim in circles around an issue no one really wants to talk about -- suicide.
This play is sure to spark some great discussions, which is what powerful literature ought to do.
Initially I couldn't remember my password.I Bought and read this play yesterday.
Unfortunately it isn't available on DVD- I would love to see it again.My Mom watched it with me, and literally couldn't sit down- she kept running out of the room like we had on a horror movie as the tension built and built in this amazingly well structured play.
That was the same way I read this yesterday, almost gasping at the ratcheting emotional tension.
A couple times now I've read Pulitzer prize winners, and have thought them very over rated.
This one earns it's prize.
Not for the faint of heart. This story is heartbreaking from beginning to end, but that is why it is so good. It's so well done--so uniquely done--and so accurate all throughout. The characterization of Jessie and Mama makes them real people that you can imagine fighting for survival in the real world. And that's where the pain comes from. I don't want to give any spoilers (the back of the play pulls that off pretty well), but I whole-heartedly recommend this book to anyone who goes to the theatre to feel things. To feel everything.
A stunning play. Brutal in its intent and drive, gentle in its detail and humanity. In one space, in real time, without a blink, two lives are revealed. Both the devil and god are in the details, with each character discovering more, and sometimes everything, about the other and themselves. Credibly sad, without an unearned tear or lump in the throat in it, it sticks to its premise and more than delivers.
Undoubtedly ,I can say that this play is special on many levels. I actually finished it and loved it! , I didn't finish a thing and love it since so long. This is the second play I study in my curriculum and love it so much! It reminded me why did I love literature. It returned my reading passion. I almost highlighted ALL the lines. I want to see the play acted on the stage.
