https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33574273-a-wrinkle-in-time
Before Meg realizes that she has the power to gush love, the crusaders tesser through time and space (no explanation of how the father can do this) to a fascinating planet with very interesting aliens who can't see, but have other senses.
I'd have loved to know more about their society and these mysterious other senses, but again, these ideas aren't very developed.These are the things in this book, and in L'Engle's writing that I love: As I mentioned, I love her courage in at least attempting a controversial issue like mixing science and spirituality.
the book that first inspired me to tentatively pick up my pencil and my marbled black-and-white composition notebook (remember those?) and write (in 4th grade).
when i (very nervously and shyly) told her that she gave me my first inspiration to write, she looked me in the eyes and, with a genuineness in her tone i can't describe, thanked me.
i gave her my book to be autographed.
as i walked away, i read her inscription, which said, with love and a flourish, "ananda!" i admit it-- i had to look it up to find out what it meant and when i did, my respect for her grew even deeper (i won't get into the entire background of the word/name here, you can google it yourself).
I’m guessing that since the main character was a girl I wasn’t that interested in middle school and when I grew older the science fiction elements didn’t appear strong enough to snag my interest.
I wonder if so many kids, especially girls, liked this novel because they felt L’Engle respected them as intelligent readers.Second, A Wrinkle in Time frames Meg’s personality as multi-faceted and more complex than just about any I’ve encountered in YA literature.
And that’s damn cool, really, don’t you think, a whole generation of girls reading A Wrinkle in Time?
3.5*What a fun weird little story!
3.5/5
This IT, also called the Dark Thing, is striving to create a communist-type society where everyone conforms, down to the little children who bounce their balls in uniform rhythms and who live in cutter-box houses.
These characters traveled to a planet that was described in three lines with beautiful flowers and a tall mountain.
Then another planet is not described at all except to say that it was a winter wonderland type of a place.
Characters are underdeveloped; scenes are not finished; worlds are left to themselves; theme is the fear of religious right of the communist left.It's a caricature of evil, done perhaps in the belief that kids won't get it otherwise.
I'd want to know if he left me because he got tired of all the fighting on earth--and since I've always wondered since the day he died -- not knowing what the hell that meant -- if he was coming back soon --- and could I go on the mission with Meg and bring my daddy back home too?" This book might have scared me as a child -- I would have needed a tender adult reading it with me.
A special appreciation to the Goodreads community-- I might never have read this book without all the the LOVE & EXPRESSION for this children's classic!
Welcome to sci-fi, kid!I have no idea how many times I've read this story, but as a child, I read it so much that this awesome cover eventually fell off.
The only stuff that really let you know you were reading a book written in the 60's were Calvin saying things like Golly!
I think it hits all the right points for a kid who feels out of place and weird, and didn't we all feel out of place an weird at that age?Yes. Yes, we did.The only thing I was less excited about this time around were all the religious references, but the book is what it is, and you just kind of have to accept that God is a big theme in this and move on if you want to enjoy it.
Thirteen-year-old Meg Murry’s house is visited, on a “dark and stormy night” by a mysterious stranger named Mrs. Whatsit who says, “Speaking of ways, by the way, there is such a thing as a tesseract.” Tesseract refers to confidential scientific work Meg’s father conducted for the government before he went missing several years prior.
On the following day, Meg accompanies her little brother to Mrs. Whatsit’s house and finds herself unexpectedly swept away on an intergalactic adventure with hope of being reunited with her father.
It’s easy to discern the value in L’Engle’s efforts to introduce young readers to complex scientific theories.
Some books are powerful for their readers because of their context; in this case, the utter lack in popular kid's literature of 1962 of characters like Meg—real girls, who cared about atypical subjects like math, who were unashamed to be other than pink-wearing cheerleaders.
To find a powerful role model in a novel must be a wonderful thing, especially for bookish girls.
Still, rereading as an adult, I found it unbearably heavy-handed.
Clunky, heavy-handed, and as obvious in its way as The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.
Sure, A Wrinkle in Time has its faults but I honestly couldn't tell you what they are because I was so thoroughly entertained, so taken with these characters I couldn't believe I could relate to in a way that was far less remote and removed than I expected (which is to say, at all) that all the things my nitpicky, pretentious post-English-major self would usually hone in on paled in comparison to the sheer enjoyment of the rush of letting a book completely suck me into its world to the point where the real world could have collapsed around me and I wouldn't've either cared or noticed because I was so wrapped up in this story.On one hand, yeah, I do feel a little cheated that so much of what I needed to hear as a kid has lived within these pages all this time and I could have had such imperatives by my side to ease the pains of childhood's harsh but necessary learning experiences had I just shown even a fraction of some interest in this book.
“It was a dark and stormy night...”   Okay, I haven’t read A Wrinkle in Time since fifth grade, so I was kind of nervous going into this. Yet, I was very pleasantly surprised, and I’m even more excited to see the new movie adaptation in March! I mean, this reads a little “old” and “simple” but it was still such a delight to read. I will say that I didn’t remember any of the religious/spiritual aspects that were woven in, so apparently fifth grade Melanie, who went to a Catholic school and ever
Okay, I haven’t read A Wrinkle in Time since fifth grade, so I was kind of nervous going into this.
The basic premise of A Wrinkle in Time, that I’m sure you all know, stars a young girl named Meg is one of four siblings in her family, and both of her parents are scientists.
Yet, I’m not sure how well it would hold up if this was your first time experiencing the story.
I do feel like there is a little something here for everyone, and even though this is considered a middle grade book, I do think it holds up pretty well for most ages.
Definitely some political innuendo there..)“Have you ever tried to get to your feet with a sprained dignity?”“A book, too, can be a star, “explosive material, capable of stirring up fresh life endlessly,” a living fire to lighten the darkness, leading out into the expanding universe.“If we knew ahead of time what was going to happen we’d be—we’d be like the people on Camazotz, with no lives of our own, with everything all planned and done for us.” And for my absolute favorite quote:“Life, with its rules, its obligations, and its freedoms, is like a sonnet: You're given the form, but you have to write the sonnet yourself.
Thirteen year-old Meg Murry and her little brother, Charles Wallace end up going on a little trip..
Yes, the 5th dimension exists my friends and the trip takes a mere second or two (see, I knew it!).
With help of Calvin, Mrs. What’s Its, Mrs. Who and Mrs. Witch and a friend she encounters named Aunt Beast, Meg is sent off to do the impossible.Camazotz is an evil planet however, and Camazotz is being controlled by “IT” (not Stephen King’s “IT” mind you), and IT controls everyone and everything and if IT gets control of you, there is no getting free.
The symbolism and the links to religion and scriptures aren't subtle, and Meg's anger and stubbornness gets old, though it's interesting to see how those character traits can in some situations stand her in good stead.
Also, in fairness it is a middle grade book, though a lot of older readers love it.
There's something really lovely about the book's ultimate message and themes.
Original post: I read this book at least two or three times when I was a teen/young adult (actually, I own and have read the entire series), but it's been a long while since I last read this.
However, while the influence of Christian Theology (and in later books, biblical history) is woven throughly through out all the books in this series, it is not offensive to non-Christian readers.
To be completely honest, when my mother first read me this when I was about 7 years old, I was totally oblivious to the influence L'Engle's faith has on her writing.
What really makes this book (and others in the series) has nothing directly to do with the writer's faith.
It has to do with the different types of non-sexual love found between family, friends, society, and the individual.
The innocence and sweetness of this story just took me back to my own childhood fantasies. Sometimes we as grown ups should read books like this to reinforce our believes in the fact that in our not-so-perfect lives, we can still look for that little spark of magic that the hidden child in all of us needs to hold on to.Loved reading this book!
I like their easy going intelligent parents and the oddities of Meg and Charles Wallace.
To Meg and her mom’s surprise, Charles Wallace already gotten acquainted with the new neighbor.
Mrs. Whatsit said a tesseract is real and it brought on a whole new adventure for Meg and Charles Wallace.
With the help of Mrs. Whatsit and her two friends Mrs.Which and Mrs. Who and Meg’s classmate, Calvin, they were able to travel by tesser to far away planets.A well written story, this book is full of adventures and wholesome characters for readers.
Their daughter and the heroine of the story is Meg, a genius and misunderstood by her schoolmates and teachers (to be fair her behavior never helped with understanding any).
So a stranger came and set the whole events of the book in motion with kids going on a secret mission hoping to find their father; bizarre adventures guaranteed.
The first group loved the book and even the adulthood reread could not spoil the impression: the worst critics only lowered the rating from 5 to 4 stars.
Thus the rating is 3 stars on the lower spectrum of 3.
It's possible that, as a kid, I was somehow relating this book to the terribly scary Disney movie "Something Wicked This Way Comes".
The witches were plastic and seemed to serve little purpose; the bad guy, a concept embodied in a shadow, had no motivation (if you want to read about true darkness for the sake of darkness/nothing for the sake of nothing, pick up Michael Ende's "The Neverending Story"); and the father, who seems to have no backbone and no sense of decency when it comes to saving his son.
A Wrinkle in Time is a very nice tale, but I just wish L'Engle spent more time developing the settings.
Lackluster description is one thing, but perhaps more than anything, I think my tepid-3 star, ho-hum reaction to A Wrinkle in Time is due to my reading it as a middle-aged curmudgeon.
My wife loved this book as a child and kept hinting I should read it, hinting so much that the hints became ultimatums.
I missed the age-appropriate boat on that one, I guess.
I just said, "It was nice," and that's the story of how I managed to stay married.
Okay, the film's an *April 2018* release but principal photography is over at least. 2018 UPDATE What is wrong with people? I do not comprehend the downer delivered by everyone and her little dog on this film. Can't be misogyny, the character was always a girl; so that leaves...mm hmm...racism. A black woman behind the camera, a lovely and talented young one as Meg. Must have fits and fall in 'em! "It's not like the book!" Umm...it's a movie...and guess what? It's a lot closer than y'all let on
One fine day, Meg and Charles Wallace are called to their destiny by Mrs Which, Mrs Who, and Mrs Whatsit, the eccentric old ladies who prove to be avatars of interdimensional good beings with the agenda of making the Universe safe for goodness and happiness again.The children are joined by fellow misfit Calvin, a popular boy athlete in their town whose hidden depths have tormented him all his life, in the quest to make the evil entity, a disembodied brain called "IT," that slowly takes over planets and compels all life thereon to submit to being in a group mind, erasing individuality and leaching away happiness.This is a YA novel, so all turns out well, with Mr. Murry coming home and the children being brought home all safe and sound.
I did a reread for the movie and am thrilled that I still love this just as much as I did as a kid!
We also want to be ourselves and thus stand out a little bit, but basically we don't want to deviate too much from "the norm" because it's usually considered bad by others (funny, considering that we're pretty much all feeling the same way so we should just let the others be) and especially children often have a hard time when not fitting in with their peers.
In fact, Meg hates people for being so unfair and ignorant and she frequently grows impatient with the way things are (leading to her getting into trouble).Thanks to her gifted brother Charles Wallace, the family encounters a peculiar old woman called Mrs. Whatsit.

"Sweet dreams are made of thisWho am I to disagree?I travel the worldAnd the seven seas,Everybody's looking for something."Eurythmics  You have plenty of time to put this book in your reading queue before the movie release in March of 2018 starring Chris Pine and Reese Witherspoon. Create some synergy by reading the book and then watching the movie. Check out the trailer. A Wrinkle in Time 2018 Movie TrailerIf you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffr
"Sweet dreams are made of thisWho am I to disagree?I travel the worldAnd the seven seas,Everybody's looking for something."Eurythmics

  You have plenty of time to put this book in your reading queue before the movie release in March of 2018 starring Chris Pine and Reese Witherspoon. Create some synergy by reading the book and then watching the movie. Check out the trailer. A Wrinkle in Time 2018 Movie TrailerIf you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.comI also have a Facebook blogger page at:https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten
I was scared to reread this book, I hadn't read it since I was in seventh grade and that was a loooong time ago.
A Wrinkle in Time was the book I would read as a kid when I was in a bad mood or bored or just because I wanted to get wrapped up in the magic of another world.
So as I said before I was scared to reread this book after all these years given how much it meant to my childhood.
I worried I wouldn't like it and I didn't want to destroy the memory of this book.
"Do I have to do it?""You must," said Mrs Whatsit.
It's impossible!""Certum est quia impossibile est," said Mrs Who.
Tertullian.""Wwe wwill hhelp yyou," interrupted Mrs Which.
"Iff onlyy yyou ddidn't iinsist on uusing wwords...""You see!" said Madeleine.
Saying indicating lack of coherence.""You must have faith," said Mrs Whatsit serenely.
"You may think it's terrible, but millions of children will love this book.
L’essentiel est invisible pour les yeux," said Mrs Who.
They'll say it's silly.""Then send it to another publisher," said Mrs Whatsit.
3.5 StarsAnthem by Ayn Rand is one of my favorite books, and I feel like this is the perfect kid-friendly version of that.
I've been going back and reading a lot of children's classics I neglected to read as a kid, and I think they're fascinating.
This book makes so many Shakespeare references and includes such a mature discussion about conformity and knowledge, and I think it's a priceless success if a book can be compelling for readers of all ages.
Until we arrived at the discussion about that dystopian planet around page 100, the book felt a bit aimless.
Who can forget the cozy Murry kitchen, the way science and religion are valued equally, tesseracts and planet adventures.
If a book can be a warm blanket, this is mine.When I as young, I loved Meg because I felt as awkward as her, and also as unable to grasp a boy ever liking me the way Calvin just does.
But I also had those weird insights in ways not quite as dramatic as Charles Wallace, so I was all of those kids.
And my Dad worked all the time, maybe not on another planet, but far enough away for my Mom to run the household, minus the science experiments and liverwurst-and-cream cheese sandwiches.
