https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70488.Scientific_Progress_Goes_Boink_
I LOVE CALVIN AND HOBBES SO MUCH. <3
It just doesn't get much better than Calvin and Hobbes tbqh.
Calvin remodels his old transmogrifier (really all he does is turn it on its side) into a duplicator.
It creates more duplicates, and each of these gets Calvin in trouble in turn.
The funny thing is, by the end, after the crisis is solved, Calvin states "Okay, so we didn't learn a lesson.
Sue me." to which Hobbes replies, "'Live and don't learn', that's us!", and though it is no less than what is to be expected of Calvin, it still drives me up the wall.The other multiple, equally comical strips contained in this volume perfectly illustrate Calvin's ranting hyprocrisy, selfishness, and imagination.
I'm estimating I've read each five times but in reality I'd just grab one at random, open at random, and then be lost in the world of Calvinball and Spaceman Spiff, Suzy Derkins and Moe, fantastic snowmen and philosophical walks in the woods with Hobbes.As a kid who lived in his imagination to escape the many difficulties of an unstable childhood and crippling depths of introversion, Calvin embodied that side of me (though I was actually mild-mannered).Hobbes' outsider's views on the flaws of human society and our materialistic culture sank deep and gave some justification to my perpetual feelings of being an outsider.
'Calvin & Hobbes' é uma das duplas mais afamadas da banda desenhada de todos os tempos, e no entanto ainda não tinha tido verdadeiramente contacto com a história destes dois pequenos traquinas que Bill Watterson nos apresenta. Dois livros depois, dizer que estou rendida aos seus encantos é pouco. crítica emhttp://leiturasmarginais.blogspot.pt/...
A great book of the series again! The title story is the best of all! The Christmas poem is really charming, I love moments like this. :)
Calvin and Hobbes is always good for a laugh when you're down. But the thing that I love most about Bill Watterson's work is that he has the ability to make you laugh and (in the middle of great big belly laughs) he can "make you go hmmm". Hilarious and thoughtful.
Lots of snowmen and Susie! A+
Darn it! Can it get even better?
some days you just need to read a good old fashioned comic strip
Always brilliant!
Watterson probably has to be the best funny comic I've read. Probs the best artist and deepest. Incredible pictures of monsters and has great expression. At least tied with Larson.
Classic <3
Another of Bill Watterson's works.The title noise is that of the duplicator producing copies of Calvin -- who didn't think how copies would act. Also appearing are dreams of waking up, snowballs, floating to the ceiling, and growing enormous.
I came across this at the local Goodwill and had to see if Calvin was as funny now as I thought he was then. (1991) I am happy to say Calvin is timeless. I loved it! Giggles and smiles all the way through.
The second comic book in my post-election blues pre-bed therapy series. My son has only about 6 of these left. What am I going to do when they give out!!!! Help
As ever, this is wonderful. The strip where Calvin and Hobbes get a bedtime story about them made me wibble.
I'm going to say it again: Calvin and Hobbes comics are highly intelligent AND funny!
If you want exposure to some pretty awesome vocabulary, make sure you start reading comics! They are educational AND entertaining! How can you get much better than that?
Back in the 1990s, I (and my boyfriend at the time) absolutely adored Calvin and Hobbes.
I read it several times.
So, in one sense it was hard for me to look at this book now and not be sad that the comics page is just a shadow of what it once was.Storylines in this Calvin and Hobbes collection include the duplicator machine, locking the baby sitter out of the house, suddenly growing very large, suddenly growing very small, suddenly living in a world of reverse gravity and signing up for a softball/baseball team.
Another great collection of Calvin & Hobbes adventures. Apparently this book is centred around the theme of science (which we all know Calvin is a fan of, what with his exploration of space and time), but it was pretty much a typical mixed bag of comics that cover all themes. We get a bit of Susie, a dash of the Boys Only Club, plenty of mutilated snowmen and whining about Winter not coming soon enough, a bit of drama with the ever-abused babysitter, and more than enough high-jinx to satisfy admirers of Calvin & Hobbes’ chaotic lifestyle.
I loved Calvin and Hobbes as a kid and have revisited these comics many times.
They just keep getting richer.
Watterson's genius is not nearly appropriately appreciated.
He uses everything from simple visual gags, to rich character comedy, to social and philosophical criticism, to very touching and poignant strips that demonstrate deep family love, sometimes without a single word.
These comics have always made me laugh, but now, with a bit more life and a son of my own, a few got me pretty choked up too.
I don't think anyone ever outgrows Calvin and Hobbes, at least I know I won't.
This was the Calvin and Hobbes collection that started it all for me. Sometime in sixth or seventh grade I picked up a wrinkled copy of it from my library and read the strips in no particular order. The comic is just as hilarious to me now, at thirty-seven, as it was when I was twelve, but there's also a certain sweetness and, at times, wistfulness, that I pick up on more now than I did when I was a kid.
Very cute and funny. I love Calvin's sense of humor, adventure, and his imagination. Plus, his fluffy & sarcastic tiger friend is great. :) "Calvin and Hobbes" is probably my favorite comic strip aside from "Sarah's scribbles"
Just think, lots of duplicates of ME - delightful I am sure you will agree. Won't you?
It was a super funny bookWho was your favourite character in the book?:HobbesYour favourite part?:When Calvin and Hobbes throw water balloons at the girls
Humor at its finest.
There are few better moral philosophers than Calvin and Hobbes.
Always good for a laugh and some insight. A book from my childhood that I owned.
