https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45546.Undaunted_Courage
While the Lewis and Clark expedition experienced a welcoming response from most tribes, with essentially only one violent incident associated with a theft, the U.S. relations with the eastern tribes deteriorated to the point that President Jackson spearheaded the near-complete removal of most Indians east of the Mississippi River to Oklahoma Territory in the period 1830-35.
It reads like a novel, one with an important quest, abundant adventure and wonder, and a story of a remarkable friendship and partnership between Lewis and Clark.
The oddest little historical fact that has stayed with me from reading this book is the squirrel migration.
At the time of the Lewis and Clark expedition, there were apparently so many squirrels in this country, that the squirrels migrated seasonally like birds.
Lewis and Clark witnessed them in large numbers swimming south across the river on which they were traveling.
It gives the reader a window into how different the country was at that time from today.
The little reference to squirrel migration encapsulates why this book was so interesting to read.
Lewis and Clark...
What I loved:-it shows Indians both good and bad.
Some Indians were incredibly gracious to the party.
Others complete manipulative jerks.
I had too romantic a view of indians before this book...
-It shows how Jefferson was a man who wanted an American empire very, very badly.
How he foolishly thought he could manipulate the Indians.
And the utter insensitivity and disrespect white men had for indians.
-Also, I am supremely jealous - they traversed the land before any airplane had ever flown over it, any car driven through it.
Lewis gives gorgeous portraits of the land as he passes through...
The Lewis and Clark expedition is one of the most fascinating aspects of American history. Ambrose does an impeccable job of chronicling the journey, as well as details before and after the adventure. This book can be a little hard to stick with, so I opted to switch off between audio and print. That seemed to harness my attention better. 12 years later, I continue to dwell on the historical knowledge I gained form this incredible story. Highly recommended.
But also, understanding what really happened on this journey, makes me think that without the Native Americans, Lewis & Clark would have never made it over the mountains, never mind making it back.They were incredibly lucky.
And the author focuses primarily on Lewis.
It's a good over-view of the journey, pulling together various sources, but it seemed whenever Ambrose had to really get you into what these men experienced, he had a hard time and had to use the words of others.
Who doesn't know about the Lewis and Clark Expedition of 1803-1806, and of Sacajawea?!
The two books did tell the same story about the expedition, but they focus on different people.
You have to read this book even if you know about the expedition, because you have to get the full picture.
This is just as fascinating as the expedition itself, and it is not in the other book Maybe you think Ambrose’s will be boring because it is non-fiction?
Both!I wish there had been more time spent on Sacajawea and on Lewis' black slave who followed him on the trip.
Please, read the book – EVEN if you already know about the expedition.
To do list - Defend “pop history,” talk about America I was on the phone with a history major friend of mine and I told him I had just finished Undaunted Courage. He chuckled and told me Stephen Ambrose is a “pop historian” who isn’t really worth reading. Well I asked him, when was the last time he had read a research paper or PHD thesis for fun? There exists a needless divide between academic writing versus accessible, interesting yet informative writing. The divide exists because of the attit
Instead of pretending to enjoy the esoteric research writing style I take my hat off to people like Ambrose who are able to express ideas in an intelligible and passionate way that is still understandable to most people.
130Lewis’ objectives, as given to him by Jefferson, were to establish American sovereignty, peace, and a trading empire in which the warriors would put down their weapons and take up traps…Relations with the Indians were important, establishing commercial ties with them was desirable, but the sin qua quo of the expedition was to return with as much information as possible.
Whenever I travel, I like to read something related to the area I'm visiting.
A historian on board gave lectures about Lewis and Clark, so I picked this book up.
Whenever I read history, I'm amazed at how unschooled I am.
I had a vague notion of what these explorers did and where they went, but Ambrose provided the context and framework I needed.
I've been reading a lot of Revolutionary War era history lately.
Ambrose doesn't mince words when he feels that the explorers make poor decisions.
The book did slow down after (spoiler) the Discovery Corps returns to St Louis.
I've been weighing up whether or not to read this again, that I feel some resistance to journeying up the Missouri to the pacific coast again in its company probably rules against it, perhaps I might have had a higher regard for it had I not first read Hidden Cities: The Discovery and Loss of Ancient North American Civilization, which although it only touches on Lewis and Clark was I felt far more interesting in its discussion of the context of their mission - Jefferson's vision of America and ideas about the indigenous inhabitants of the continent.
Also having later found out that Ambrose's use of evidence in his Eisenhower books was questionable I don't know if I can entirely trust him as a writer.
I have really enjoyed reading the notes made by Merriweather Lewis, and his relationship with his partner, William Clark.
This book tells about the relationship of these two men, apparently without conflict, or little, if any in the course of their exploration.
In reading this book you can also learn about the many tribes of Indians and they way Lewis/Clark viewed them: savages, uneducated, and definitely in need of their way of life to better them.
History is always a fascinating read and I think any one interested in learning more about our history would find this really a "good read."
Ambrose is as clear a historical writer as there is. The account of Lewis & Clark's preparation and then journey is outstanding. The lengthy description of what happened after was less so, but mainly because I was not interested in their publishing disputes and the like. Over all, this is a wonderful account of one of the most significant adventures in American history.
I'm almost done with the book. Great. New insights. Learned about who Sakajewea (sp?) was and actually think she is a bit over rated. But that is beside the point. I learned a lot about Thomas Jefferson, the politics of the time, the trip to the Pacific and back (naturally), and the way this country was.Interesting factoids contained in the book:Squirril migrationEating Dogs, Horses, roots and enjoying themONLY ONE MAN DIED!Enjoy. It is a great book!
Ambrose relates in the foreword, his lifelong fascination and exploration of the Lewis and Clark adventure.
I like how he brings all the characters, Lewis, Clark, Jefferson, various Indian chiefs, members of the “Corps of Exploration” and many other participants to life.
Jefferson instructed Lewis to learn the names of the Indian nations, and their numbers, their possessions, their relations with other tribes, their languages, traditions, monuments, their occupations—whether agriculture or fishing or hunting or war—and the implements they used for those activities, their food, housing, the diseases prevalent among them and the remedies they use…”
If I could give President Jefferson one plank his party was good for it has been American expansionism.
However Merriweather Lewis was a member of the Army who sided with his father’s friend Thomas Jefferson on most issues.
President Jefferson knew this and also knew that Merriweather Lewis was the paymaster for the Army.
President Jefferson realized that Merriweather was aware of the surrounding country and could lead an expedition because of his travel awareness.
Lewis convinced many of the tribe’s chiefs to meet with President Jefferson to help foster peaceful trade throughout the west and increase American influence with the tribes.
Meriwether Lewis and William Clark's incredible trek West to discover an all water route to the Pacific Ocean is certainly one of the most American stories ever. Ambrose has written a detailed account of the courage, determination and resourceful self sufficiency displayed by these men and their companies to complete the expedition, giving great attention to the science, geography and their everyday life on the journey. This was a wonderful, informative and highly enjoyable read.
I felt like I was there with the "Corps of Discovery", as they were named, seeing the incredible plains and mountains of the unexplored American West for the first time.I am familiar with some of the country and have actually stood at Three Forks in Montana where the Missouri River is first formed and I can only imagine what it must have felt like and looked like for the explorers.The book is, of course, not only a biography of Meriwether Lewis but also a view into the thinking and attitudes of Thomas Jefferson, in particular, and other luminaries of the time vis a vis the West, American Indians, the future of the U.S. and its eventual spread from the Atlantic to the Pacific.The story of Lewis' life is a glorious and sad chronicle as we share both his triumphs and his disappointments.
I've always had a particular fascination with the Lewis & Clark Expedition, because of being born in raised in St. Charles, Missouri, the town where the expedition technically launched; so I'm glad I've finally had a chance to read this influential overlook at the trip by famed historian Stephen E.
Ambrose.
This is pretty much what you would expect from such a book, so I don't have too many analytical things to say about it; it's well-researched and well-written, especially when it comes to the heartbreaking details about Meriwether Lewis's mental problems later in life and his eventual suicide.
Strongly recommended.
Beyond the adventure, we are fortunate today to have their descriptions of an unspoiled American West: the verdant plains stretching as far as the eye could see with ten thousand buffalo in a single herd, the ferocious grizzly bears probing and attacking, the remarkably diverse Indian tribes from hospitable to hostile.
He could prosper in the wild but not survive out of it.Recommended as an adventure story, a look into a distant pristine American environment, and the native peoples who lived there before civilization destroyed them.

I had a nagging feeling during most of my reading of this book, that Stephen Ambrose was annoying to me.
I can't quite articulate why, and the story itself was so interesting that it didn't become a real problem.
I finally gave up on it and just drifted along with the story; which was possibly the books intention.
Its a story you have heard about and probably not really taken a moment to seriously think about in context.
As interesting as Lewis (and Clark, and Sacagawea, etc) is, Jefferson, for me, was the godlike subtext everywhere in this book.
There's just SO MUCH information in here, and I got frustrated with it and was like "OH FOR THE LOVE OF MIKE, LEWIS AND CLARK, WOULD YOU JUST GET HOME ALREADY?!" and then they get home, but there's still more story because there's the whole "what are we going to do with all these discoveries" thing.
When I was in school and we learned about Lewis & Clark's trip, she was described as a young woman, and we all know she had a baby while on this journey, so I'd been picturing someone in her mid-20s.
"Undaunted Courage" tells an unforgettable tale with a degree of minute detail that reduces the journey of Lewis & Clark to a level of excitement on par with the user manual and warranty for a fiberglass canoe.
I was motivated to sift through the dense mess only due to my fascination with the actual expedition and the thought that, if the Corps of Discovery portage over the Rocky Mountains, surely I can manage to make it through this book without succumbing to tears.
I read this, mostly up in NW Wisconsin, instead of reading the actual journals of Lewis and Clark because I was feeling lazy and thought a modern summary would serve as a better, lighter read. Indeed, it is a light read, part history, part travel.
What these men did was amazing. Still, this book takes longer to read than it did for Lewis and Clark to reach the pacific ocean.
A fascinating read. Perfect for the summer, a season during which my family has been hiking and camping in the Pacific Northwest. I often found myself considering how the members of the Corps of Discovery viewed this new region.
I didn't know the political reasons and then the ramifications for the whole Lewis and Clark expedition.
So even though I knew that Lewis and Clark made it to the Pacific and back, I did not know any of the details and I really enjoyed the journey and learning all kinds of new things.
The book didn't give her much accolades but I clearly had them in the back of my mind reading about all the hardship the expedition endured.
This book is a biography of Lewis and his life so maybe less was said about Sacajawea because she had more interaction with Clark.
First and foremost, this book is not the fast-paced adventure story of the Lewis and Clark expedition that I was hoping to read.
It is an academic biography of Meriwether Lewis, with particular focus on the expedition (likely because that is the best-documented part of his life).Academic: The narrative is good in places, but lacks rhythm overall.
And in the interest of making this a "complete" biography of Meriwether Lewis, the expedition does not even begin until page 140.
Perhaps there is a book out there that tells the story I was hoping to read.
Even if you think you know about the Lewis and Clark expedition, trust me, if you haven't read Undaunted Courage, you probably know very little.
But their lives were literally in the hands of natives during this expedition.Third, it wasn't just a hike through uncharted territory - it was a fact-finding mission.
Lewis and Clark both took great pains to journal their experiences, and Lewis, in particular, did an amazing job of collecting specimens of animal and plant life, including written descriptions and drawings that rivaled the works of Audobon.Lastly, the information Ambrose provides about these people AFTER the expedition was jaw dropping.
He inserts points to think about, and his conjectures, though sometimes seemingly forced, generally make good points for the audience to dwell on.
I love a good adventure story (John Muir, Captain Cook, etc), they’re the type of men that I find absolutely fascinating.
I appreciated that even after Lewis death the book continued on to track down those pesky journals, and how his work was continued.I do think that this story could have been about 200 pages shorter, and would have been better for it.
Still a good book and I look forward to reading other works by him that I bought from Amazon on a deal.
As a kid growing up in the Pacific Northwest, there were numerous reminders via place names of these explorers named Lewis and Clark (Clark Fork, Lewiston, historical markers of their route, etc).
And Ambrose clearly shows what Lewis and Clark were up against --- indeed, the mission to put a man on the moon had far more logistical, technical, and scientific support than did Meriwether Lewis and William Clark undertook their mission to find a route from the Eastern United States to the Pacific via the newly obtained Louisiana Purchase.
After reading this book, I have an even greater respect for their courage, resourcefulness, and determination to do what they did.
