https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107430.The_Road_from_Coorain
Stark, real, sharp, luxuriant- the natural Western plains of Australia girl child world.But after the move to Sydney (off of Coorain sheep country isolation)it cuts to her latter years of schooling and family life; then every year of progressive aging becomes closer to a highly aesthetic intellectual and emotional exercise or thesis of record memoir.
Interesting for sure- how she turned from emotional co-dependence with her widowed mother and a rural and rather physically wild girlhood, a scrappy but pudgy shy rural kid without any social interchange skills- to the realms of highest Academia.This last 70 pages was so much more a "studied" analysis of her educational path that it held none of the bright light purity of the earlier years.
In it, Jill Ker Conway, an academic and the first female president of Smith College, tells the story of her youth and education in Australia up to the day she left for America at age 26.The first third of the book, in which she describes her life on a sheep ranch in a remote part of New South Wales, is what makes this book worthwhile.
A disastrous drought that kills most of the flock eventually forces them back to the city.The middle of the book discusses her schooling.
Solid memoir on growing up in 40s Australia, first in the Outback on a sheep farm that nearly collapses due to a long drought, then in Sydney as she tries to adjust to life a smart, pretty woman in a very chauvinistic academic world.
When her fatherless family moved to Sydney, leaving the farm in caretaker's hands, the book bogged down for me.
While my growing up years were perfectly fine, I don't have any desire to relive them, either mine or someone else's, so even most "coming of age" movies leave me cool.
Didn't know I was going to love this book. Jill Ker Conway came of age during a time when society did not know what to do with an intelligent woman. She only wanted to be taken seriously, and she was determined to make a difference in the world. And she did!My review:  The Road From Coorain
A good book about growing up in the outback of Australia during the 30s.
The latter two thirds (through the 50s) deals with the author's progression toward adulthood, her psychological separation from the control of her parents and an understanding of what she wanted to do with her life.
Watching her become an independent individual, that is what I enjoyed.
It deals with her growing awareness of aboriginal discrimination.
The author states clearly in the foreword that she hopes this book describing her own life experiences may inspire other girls toward intellectual professions of high standing through education.
As she proceeds through adolescence into her college years, she evolves an aversion to the classism that places her among the privileged landowners, the sexism in the barriers to success in the field of history that she excels in, and internalized cultural inferiority that Australians experience with respect to the British imperialist mentality.
By the end of the book, she is headed to graduate school at Radcliffe to study the parallels and differences between Australian and American progression from British colonies.
A fantastic and engaging memoir showing how Jill Ker Conway's early years on the sheep farm in Coorain, Australia helped shape her into the academic she later became here in the United States.This book starts off beautifully with in depth descriptions of the harsh Australian outback, a place I've never been, but would like to go, and through Ms. Conway's words I was there.
Then the book ends with Jill Ker Conway leaving for America at age 26.
If it was more fun, I might of liked it more myself.However, I'm not going to lie, this is a heavy book.
My experience with this memoir ebbed and flowed. I was captivated by the first quarter of the book about Conway's experiences growing up on a sheep farm in Coorain. Then there were pages and pages detailing mundane high school and university experiences in Sydney including her coursework and even what she wrote on her essay exams. I became interested again during the last quarter of the book, as Conway strived to find her footing as a woman and a scholar the late 1950s/early 1960s Sydney.
I have had a hard time trying to figure out why though.
I feel that it was more because of the information about Australia and life on the sheep ranch and conditions then, than the more mundane times of an academic in Sydney.
I had a very hard time justifying any of reasons for why she acted as she did towards them.
I thought the author did a very good job explaining what she felt and what she discovered as she progressed in her accademic persuit.
The story was well written and an easy read.
Brilliant.I may come up with more words later, but right now I'm in a 'good book coma'.
The book makes good use of tone and diction to convey the author's thoughts and emotions, giving the reader her attitude and opinions towards events and things directly in a voice that is both engaging and down to earth.The book, as a memoir of a life of a normal person, is one the reader feels for, but as a result it lacks much of the escapist elements that fiction usually possesses.
The most powerful part of the book is that it is based on real events written by the person who witnessed them, creating a more intimate relation with the protagonist - the author.In all, the Road from Coorain is a good book, engaging yet slow paced.
The harm here is if these memoirs will put you in despair, wondering why fame, wealth and greatness have eluded you--with no prospects for these in any way, and so you end up killing yourself with an overdose of laxatives.The best life stories to read are actually those about the rich and famous who had died poor, despised or forgotten.
Jill is born to parents who have pioneered a sheep station.
Australian women and men were supposed to be stoic and not reveal feelings as that would be poor taste to burden someone else.
There were new rules od decorun and dress the English schools demanded.
Even poor posture was a way one might let down the image of the school.
Jill was tortured with shyness -- but gradually inspected school rules from every mischievious angle and was accepted thought to be a "brainy", "blue-stocking" -- certainly a negative for a woman, but a triumph for her!
Once she enters school, though, we hear only very brief accounts of the players in her social life and instead are subjected to relentless and unnecessary details about the subjects she studies and her every reaction to them.
You're an intelligent woman who loves studying history and English.
If we wanted to read your scholarly papers, we would, but you promised us a memoir.Then, the book ends without any account of what happens to her pitiful and infuriating mother.
She's such a major actor throughout the book, but we get no hint as to how her sad story may conclude.I wish I'd never picked it up!
This was my first autobiography, and I discovered it as a miniseries on PBS. I found that I related a lot to Jill in feeling out of place in one's skin and environment. Her anecdotes and hardships made me both laugh and sigh. Plus, talk about visuals. I felt like I was in the Australian Outback with her. This is a must read for women.

Jill Ker Conway writes her life story in such a way that really captures everyone and every memory.
Jill Ker Conway grew up on this land during WWII with her family of two older brothers and her mother and father.
Where growing up and climbing the social ladder becomes crucial.Something that I really enjoyed about this book is the connection that Conway makes between characters in her story to people that her readers can actually relate to.
You can even feel the land around her, the heat, the rain.
The way Conway writes is so, everything is so tangible and so real it was easy to feel what she was feeling.
The camper turned out to be the stock agent to the very farm I was reading about!Over the coming weeks of moving up the Island my Husband and I kept meeting up with this couple, in the end they came an stayed at our place in Auckland for a few days.
Subsequently we visited them in an Australian town called Hay (a long way from anywhere) it had not had any rain for 6 years!!.
This is the memoir of a woman who grew up on an Australian sheep farm and would go on to become the first woman president of Smith College.
Yes, the picture of growing up on a isolated sheep "station" in the forties was certainly interesting.
Her memoir was a story of continually expanding intellectual and social horizons.
The writers who inspired and challenged my thinking were different, but I could identify with her intoxication upon encountering a larger world of ideas, and appreciated how she began to ponder how being a woman and an Australian had shaped her and history.
I loved this book because of the writing, and since I didn't read the jacket, I had no idea who the author was at first.
Another thing that struck me was how the author's perspective on her mother shifts-in the beginning she is the competent heroine of her childhood, but something goes far astray when they are forced to leave the sheep ranch where Jill was raised.
It is clear from the writing that Jill is growing up and way from her mother as her mother's life goes retrograde, but the way handles this double motion is incredibly precise and feels truthful.
even if jill ker conway hadn't distinguished herself as the first female president of smith college,i would still highly recommend this book.
it is startling to read about conditions and a lifestyle that seem more suited to the 1800s, rather than the mid 20th-century, and i definitely have a tinge of envy that as a seven-year-old, ker conway was helping her dad to herd sheep on horseback.
it is a heavy book, though, because ker conway's life was plagued by loss and struggle-- but it's beautifully and thoughtfully written, and the vast descriptions of australia's outback are incredible.
this book has officially opened the ker conway era in my reading career.
Actually wavering between 4 and a half and five stars, but I seriously love this book, especially the early sections.
As a girl growing up in Australia, Jill found herself, as it were, in several "boxes".
She was female, a subject of the British empire, and white - therefore a colonizer as well as a colonial.
Disclaimer - I went to Smith when Jill Ker Conway was president.
She was, and is, deeply loved, for her scholarship, her integrity, her pioneering work as a feminist.
At that time, I bought it, read part of it, and promptly put it down; I did not relate to the text and felt no need to continue.
Over 10 years of traveling experience later, and especially with the recent trip to Australia, it finally meant quite a bit to read it cover-to-cover.
It weaves through some beautiful geographical text about New South Wales, paired with the journey of a young feminist woman trying to balance life with her mother's expectations as well as a biased academic world.
The comparisons of Australia to the U.S. during the mid-20th centuries are also interesting.
A biography of the early years in Australia of Jill Ker Conway, a smart young woman raised on a sheep farm in the desolate, unpopulated outback of Australia then educated at private school in Sydney and, later, at the University of Sydney.
A careful observation of her family as they deal with the hardships of farming and the climate of Australia, and of the difficulties of a woman pursuing an education and a career in the middle of the 20th Century.
Well and carefully written, interesting and different.
Recommended, although it is not a fast-paced story it is worth working through.
Always intended to read more of Ker Conway but never have. Her accomplishments and path in life are clearly impressive. I was hooked instantly. Read this in my late twenties. I hadn't been aware of the Australian drought before this book. Descriptions of the hard and desolate landscape her childhood lived through still hover in my brain. An inspirstional memoir of resilience by a very bright woman.
The author describes in wonderful detail her life as a child growing up on a station in the outback of Australia. The autobiography continues until she leaves Australia for Harvard University. It takes awhile to get into the first chapter, but before the end of that chapter I was hooked. This book made me decide that I am not at all educated. Kind of uncomfortable.
An amazing memoir that I sailed through. While reading this I often wonder if I could have survived the harshness of such an environment and upbringing. I admire the tenacity of the author. One of my favorite memoirs.
Absolutely loved it, from beginning to end!
The first part vividly describes her early years growing up on a sheep ranch in the Australian outback with only her two older brothers, parents, and the occasional hired help as companions.
From the age of seven, with her brothers off to boarding school, working with her father on the ranch, she learned much of the trade, while her formal education came principally from her mother, supplemented by her own voracious reading.
It's a first rate memoir of a girlhood in an isolated sheep station in western New South Wales in the 1930s, the loss of her father in an extended drought, the family's move to Sydney, her struggles as a "bush child" in the metropolis, the loss of her brother in a car wreck, her coming-of-age through education, and her mother's declining health.
Reactions to the rest of the book are mixed.For myself, I also liked the girlhood memoir the best -- but a lot of the power of that is from her rethinking of her life and her country's history, first as a college student, then as a professional historian.
