https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/332792.Toward_a_Psychology_of_Being
Another interpretative issue of Maslow's theories could be the idea of self-actualization as a finality, like there is no more growth, only a means to an end.
Ah, the eternal debate between theory and practice...But until these dichotomies are dialetectized more consistently, most psychology will remain flawed, and also of course certain types of sociology (when they dichotomize in the contrary way).Maslow however, at his best, does realize and overcome a very important yet artificial dichotomy(and explain the real dialectical relation) between the individual and society, with his pyramid of needs, by acknowledging the pre-potence of social support for independent thought.
These, the members of Tri-S, were a tiny but tight minority in a school of 4000.As the sixties and the war escalated more persons became countercultural, few of them as political as the members of our club, but the groups, still a small minority, mingled and my circle of friends broadened.
I also, during that year, had my first real romantic relationship with a girl, a relationship founded on, yes, politics and, better, friendship.Coming back to college, my draft board having been torched and their prosecution of me being forgotten, I now had a whole new host of interests, psychology and philosophy prominent among them.
This book is based in existentialistic philosophy (a doctrine that is formed around the free existence of the individual as a responsible being who can, through development of 'the self', create the individual he or she will become and live their life as) or the ability to utilize self-determinism (and also to an extent, self-training) to become the person you want to be, to understand that person and accept the position you have chosen, and to be fully self actualized within that position...
Спокойно мога да я окачествя с един от ключовите термини, които Маслоу въвежда, а именно "върхово преживяване", по време на което виждаш действителността, а и себе си, по-ясно и непреднамерено, както той казва "немотивирано" (т.
Това е най-мащабният труд на Маслоу, който се счита за един от основателите на хуманистичната психология, така че ще ми е невъзможно да отбележа всичко, което ме впечатли.
Най-висшето ниво е стремежът към себеактуализация, осъзнатост, зрелост, индивидуация или най-общо казано пълно осъществяване на всички заложби, с които се раждаме.
Стремежът към растеж и себеактуализация е равнозначен на психично здраве.Много научих от тази книга.
He claims psychoanalytic thought erroneously assumes neuroses to be fundamental to humanity, rather than existential "illnesses" that have replaced a priori existential health, and that behaviorism erroneously assumes humans are too much of a blank slate, not allowing for a real, unique, persistent "self." Maslow, creating the field of humanistic or positive psychology, argues that each person is a fundamental, healthy, unique, persistent self and he sets about trying to define what that looks like in the Western world.
Maslow's hierarchy of needs as theorized in 1943 had five levels of needs, and one can only fulfill the next level up in the pyramid once you've fulfilled the foundation of the need below it.In order, Maslow's original 5 levels were Physiological, Safety, Social, Esteem, and then the top level, Self-Actualization.Maslow's later writings added more levels, and this later book builds upon the theories, especially about how to get the most out of your life. Should be required reading.
One is the deficit model (or D cognition in his terms) - this is your average (or below average), mostly dissatisfied person, who constantly looks at life in terms of deficits, who is always struggling to get a hold of what he is missing, and who constantly acts out of fear.
It got me wondering if self-actualized happiness would forever be denied to those who are poor, or who have to struggle with serious problems, like medical conditions for example.
Also Maslow fails to tell us much about what we can do in order to become self-actualized and develop minds that work mostly in B-cognition mode.
Difficult to get through because of the density of information and involved concepts it dealt with, but extremely rewarding and insightful. I came away with a better understanding of humanistic psychology, myself, and humanity in general. It's a shame that Maslow's often reduced to "the hierarchy of needs guy," because even though that little pyramid is symbolic of his theories, he had a lot more really amazing things to say.
“Eu queria provar que os seres humanos são capazes de algo maior do que guerras, o preconceito e o ódio. Eu queria fazer ciência considerar todos os problemas que os cientistas não conseguiram: a religião, a poesia, valores, filosofia, arte. Eu continuei com eles tentando entender as pessoas grandes, os melhores exemplares da humanidade que pude encontrar”(Abraham Maslow)
If you're prepared to use your brain while reading this book deserve 5 stars. It's complex and obviously written by a genius. THE Maslow. A greatly affirming, illuminating journey into the heart of being.
Got Peak Experience?
A classic in the world of Psychology, this is one of the best books on the topic I've ever read.
Maslow is one of the forefathers of modern Psychology and is best known for his 'Hierarchy of needs pyramid,' and his deep fascination with self-actualization.
Both of these ideas are covered in this book, but it's the latter that gets the most attention.Maslow does a great job in explaining, in almost poetic terms, exactly what is going on in that little head of ours: why we think the way we do, what desire is, the different types of cognition, the thoughts that hold us back, where creativity comes from, and much more.As much as this is a Psychology textbook, it is, you could say, also a guide on how to live.
I remember being realy impressed with Maslow's "Hierarchy of Needs" when discovering it for the first time.Here it is:1. Physiological-breathing, food, water, sex, sleep, homoestasis, excretion2. Safety-security of body, of employment, of resources, of morality, of the family, of health, of property3. Love/Belonging-friendship, family, sexual intimacy4. Esteem-self-esteem, confidence, achievement, respect of others, respect by others5. Self-actualization-morality, creativity, spontaneity, problem solving, lack of prejudice, acceptance of facts
It is amazing how at the core of my job, Maslow's hierarchy of human needs serve as the framework for which I do any other therapy. This book is one that I reference often in my own practice today as I serve many clients who do not have their basic needs met. I have learned that if I do not address these needs first, my clients are unable to progress any further in therapy.
Details later. A seminal Book. This is the sort of book I read, and reread on a continual basis. Started a new shelf just for this class of book : Seminal : Those books that are part of the substructure of my paradigm.
One of my top five books. I am intrigued with the concept of self-actualization, be your unique best.
What Psychology Can Learn from the Existentialists– conclusionPart II: Growth and Motivation03.
The Need to Know and the Fear of Knowing– fear of knowledge: evasion of knowledge: pains and dangers of knowing– knowledge for anxiety-reduction and for growth– the avoidance of knowledge as avoidance of responsibility– summaryPart III: Growth and Cognition06.
Psychological Data and Human Values– free choice experiments: homeostasis– basic needs and their hierarchical arrangement– self-actualization: growth– growth and environment– “instinct” theory– the problems of control and limits– regressive forces: psychopathology12.
Some Basic Propositions of a Growth and Self-Actualization PsychologyAppendix A: Are Our Publications and Conventions Suitable for the Personal Psychologies?Appendix B: Bibliography (hide spoiler)]
Maslow offers a future enabling, rather than just a past repressing (as in Freud), psychology of human Being.
Maslow argues also, akin to Plato, that the good and the true and the enjoyable all come together, in these types of people.I cannot agree with aspects of his approach, such as his belief that this is just science that can be taken in as such.
Science determines from the outside, self actualisers as in Maslow, partly determine themselves from the inside, at least in some key areas of their lives and personality.
Il testo di Maslow e' uno di quelli che ha contribuito a fare la storia della psicologia.
E' un capace narratore e piacevole da leggere: le cadute nel linguaggio meramente tecnico sono rare e il tutto e' assai comprensibile.
Le implicazioni di quanto esposto hanno portato alla nascita di una nuova corrente di pensiero ed è molto utile - piu' che leggere riassunti su Wikipedia o altrove su quanto esposto in questo testo - risalire alla fonte e bearsi delle intuizioni dell'autore.
Saltata la parte sulle peak experience, questa davvero utile per chi si occupa di ricerca, ma ridondante per il lettore medio.
Rather stocky for an non-psychologist to read. Not difficult just a bit sporadic?The point most valued by me in this book is the notion (which today is even more relevant) that there is very little research being done on when people are just content. The happiness industry seem to focus on progression above all else, where are there might be just normal contentment for many people which might just as well be regarded as happiness. It has led me onto the Book "You must change your life" by philosopher Peter Sloterdijk to further understand this phenomenon.
One of the most well known psychologists presented his writings and revised them into a book. His key idea? That we are born to reach our full potential and psychology should expand its scope of study to cover the positive side of psyche. All very well, but you probably just need to read the first preface and chapter 14 as the rest is very much the same thing , sometimes with the same sentences appearing in successive chapters...
Surely it was way ahead of its time and since it was deemed to be a "classic", it probably made some groundbreaking revelations. However, a lot of what Maslow discusses is common sense and after finishing the book, I kept wondering if he really needed to go on with so many chapters before getting to the point (which happens literally at the very last one). Otherwise, it's surely a must-read for anyone who wants to get at least the basics of psychology.
The psychologist who took such secular experiences seriously was Abraham Maslow, Harry Harlow’s first graduate student and a founder of humanistic psychology.The Happiness Hypothesis Pág.205
Wonderful and insightful book. Explains the traits Maslow found in those who self-actualize. Excellent analysis of those outliers of the human experience who can start synthesizing a holistic way of being.
Jaučiasi, kad knyga yra skirtingų pranešimų rinkinys. Neknygiškai skaitosi. Bet mintys įdomios ir priverčiančios susimąstyti.
.
Don't believe everything you read. Take every book for self growth with rational thinking. Take your time to analyse what you read.
A classic...Very good book.
The second half started to get into the other two threads, on values and humanistic psychology, which were weaker, and felt mostly like a bad echo of the first half.The key idea of course, is the hierarchy of needs, and how their continued fullfillment or lack thereof results in the range of human psyches - the extremes roughly being the neurotic and needy and the happy and healthy (and about a million other adjectives).
Anyone working to understand and become "fully human" will benefit from Maslow's observations and research.
This is important: This book is for any reflective human being, not just for psychologists.
It is impossible to read only from a professional psychologist's point of view.His work stands out against the cold and rigid analytic form of psychology that tries to fit human nature into a purely rational framework.
Maslow insists that even "hard" science reflects the subjective nature of the human and the researcher.
Education based on academic standards and "objective" testing will fail to help people on the path to self-actualization.
Maslow's work is of great importance to the field of education.
