https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77727.Calvin_and_Hobbes
SCUSATE IL RITARDO Calvin & Hobbes è geniale.
Finora avevo letto solo poche strisce sui giornali americani e questo è il primo volume che mi godo: da qui la richiesta di scuse per il ritardo.
Ma farò ammenda, ne leggerò presto altri.Mi piace tutto: il disegno, il testo, i personaggi, le strisce di lunghezza normale e quelle che durano una pagina intera.
Rispetto ai mitici meravigliosi Peanuts, aggiunge il mondo degli adulti, che sono presenti e attivi, interagiscono con Calvin (perfino con Hobbes), anche loro altrettanto brillanti e graffianti.
Hobbes è indimenticabile, il tigrotto di pezza è più vivo di un umano
Strip after strip after strip.Some books just win you over.
I too sleep with the baseball bat beside my bed to kill the monster lurking down it.I wonder I still may not be old enough to not start doing this poll manipulation thing with my dad either.I do not want my wife to have such a kid in the house.
I want to be that kid rather.
We might consider a tiger instead.With characters sketched up as well as these, you will be going out of your way not to give this one a 5 star.Wonderful and addictive.Did I say 5 stars already?
Watterson put tons of effort into some of the scenes, effort he probably didn't need to, but it seems like he wasn't willing to phone it in like so many other cartoonists when it came to the little touches.Most of the characters that appear throughout the life of the series are introduced in this volume: Calvin's parents, of course, the principal, Mrs. Wormwood, Rosalyn the babysitter, Moe, Susie Derkins, they're all here and fully realized.
Bill Watterson wasn't content to churn out strips year after year just to keep the gravy train going.While it isn't my favorite Calvin and Hobbes collection by a long chalk, even the greatest newspaper strip of the modern era had to start somewhere.
This is what I got in my mail box to cheer me up while I used to study late in the winter. Too stressed with your schedule and cold??Have a Calvin break [image error]
I reread this book about once a year, along with the rest of the Calvin & Hobbes series, because it is simply wonderful.
Nobody can balance sincere wonder and biting snark quite like Bill Watterson...For those of you who don't know (yes, such people exist) Calvin is the kid with the wild hair, and Hobbes is his loyal stuffed tiger.
Calvin's existential angst - a brilliant child trapped in the suburbs with no one who understands him - is hinted at here, but not as pronounced as it later becomes.In this, the earliest collection, Watterson's drawing style is a bit more raw than it became, the characterizations are in mild flux, and the storylines and punchlines are less ambitious.
If you want to appreciate the peace in your life better than you do, want to realize and feel proud on its beauty, serenity and tranquility then you have to read Calvin and Hobbes.Calvin is a 6-years old super intelligent, humorous and lazy kid, a kid whom you never wish you have in your life.
Because he uses his intelligence in making people's life miserable!
Οι δύο εφιάλτες του πέρα από το σχολείο και το πρωινό ξύπνημα είναι ο Μό ένας συμμαθητής του, που του παίρνει με το έτσι θέλω το χαρτζιλίκι και τον χτυπάει στο μάθημα της γυμναστικής και η μπέιμπι σίτερ του, η οποία δεν ανέχεται και πολλά.Ο Κάλβιν έχει μια οπορτουνιστική κοσμοθεωρία, όπου όλα μπορούν να επιτευχθούν κατά την άποψή του με το χρήμα, την άνοδο στην εξουσία ή αν αυτά δεν έχουν αποτέλεσμα, τότε, με τα κλάματα και τις τσιρίδες (οι οποίες είναι μακράν το πιο αποτελεσματικό από όλα τα μέσα).
Who doesn’t love Calvin, the over imaginative, mischievous child, with his imaginary tiger friends Hobbes? His antics drive his parents to the brink of insanity and he loves pondering about his Captain Spiff fantasies during class. He is always either making excuses for not having the healthy (read: disgusting) food he has been served, or advocating children’s right to vote in crucial decision like bed time hours, or irritating his friends Susie.Every page is funnier than the last one and the illustrations are fantabulous! Love Calvin and Hobbles always! : D1 book done, 18 more books to enjoy!
Calvin is a fabulous kid with fantastic imagination and he has a stunning feature to drive mad everyone around.
I don't know if I lived in a bomb shelter as a kid or was subject to a weird mind-altering device, but I don't remember ever reading Calvin and Hobbes. Like ever. And it's fantastic. The humor is totally smart and clever, and their friendship charming. It's funny how the parents really are the bad guys from Calvin's perspective, and we're not sure if Hobbes is real or imaginary. But I suppose if he's real to Calvin then he is real, isn't he? Recommended for re-instilling optimism after the world has failed you yet again.
Although it's just another story about a super hyperactive small boy and his imaginary friend, you love Calvin so much because of his hilarious "know-it-all" comments.
He trashed through house, to the point that his parents hoped that they had dachsund instead.
(Heard from the doctor's examination room):Calvin: "Hey, doc, why are you rubbing my arm with cotton?
Are you going to...
WHERE'S MY MOM??!"And his tiger-doll-slash-imaginary-friend Hobbes was just so adorable and wise (although probably it was Calvin who was "wise", since it came from Calvin's imagination).
But here's a tiger hug for being my best friend.
Love, love, LOVE this cartoon! Especially love Calvin's dad and his explanations!! Oh, and Hobbes when he gets on the subject of girls. <3
I think Calvin and Hobbes is the best comic of all time.
I'm sure you've all heard of this, because Calvin and Hobbes has been around for a very long time.
But for those who haven't read it, I say pick that comic book up right now!
This book is comic strips about a six year old who hates school, homework, baths, his "evil" baby sitter, Rosalyn, and food his mother makes.
Calvin's friend, Hobbes, is a stuffed tiger that comes to life when nobody is around except Calvin.
These comics are nothing but pure comedy.
"Childhood as it actually is" is the best definition of this book so far.
Before I left for my year-long adventure to London, my boyfriend and I exchanged our favorite books with each other, in the hopes that we would both read them while I was gone, and it would remind us of the other person.I gave him The Book Thief by Markus Zusak.
He gave me this one.And I loved it.
He's always loved Calvin and Hobbes and I totally see why.
They're so real and I see their struggles with raising an over-imaginative six-year-old (even though I'm nowhere near that stage myself).Calvin and Hobbes comics are more than fun.
Iskreno ne znam nikoga ko je uspeo na bolji i zabavniji nacin da prikaze psihu malog hiperaktivnog klinca bolje nego Vareson. Svaka cast.Plus razasuto kroz celu knjigu ima i dosta interesantnih pitanja kao i konstatacija koje stvarno navode na razmisljanje.Preporuka.
See, this feeling. This 'I know I should have read this before' feeling that comes with reading a book or comic that is so good, (and you already know it is going to be so good) is such a confusing feeling. Because isn't all time the perfect time to read a perfect book or a comic?I love unanswerable questions.
This book serves as an excellent reminder of why Calvin and Hobbes was so popular in its day and why it is so revered now: Bill Watterson created a brilliant and charming character in six-year-old Calvin.
The little boy is hilarious and adorable, especially when his stuffed tiger Hobbes comes to life.
Whether sledding in the woods at dizzying speeds or contemplating the meaning of life, Calvin and Hobbes are perfect together.
There is still plenty to come, but this initial book contains enough laughs to rekindle the joy of reading these for the first time.
And, this is one of my favorites
3,05/5
In black and white on the pages of the Indianapolis Star I followed the young boy - Calvin - an imaginative (understatement) 1st grader, and his often times alive, sometimes stuffed-tiger sidekick Hobbes, who very often was Calvin's conscience (yes, rarely listened to!).
Many of us can relate to the story of a young boy and his favorite stuffed animal going to far away worlds on other planets, to prehistoric earth, or just being a precocious first grader battling mom and dad, teachers, little girls and bullies at every turn.
Duh, ceritanya. Lucu dengan satire dan komentar sosial di beberapa bagian. Kasihan sih sebenarnya sama orang tuanya si Calvin ini. Pasti pusing punya anak hiperaktif yang punya segudang ulah kayak si Calvin ini :)).Di sini dunia anak-anaknya tergambarkan sekali, ya. Batas antara realita dan imajinasi sangat tipis. Si Calvin ini juga sebenarnya sadar akan keduanya, tapi dia lebih cenderung untuk (memilih, atau mungkin juga secara alami) bermain di dalam dunia fantasinya.
¿Quién se puede resistir a las risas y filosofía de Calvin y Hobbes?
Logan carries around his best stuffed friend, Cuddles, who is a white tiger, so he and Calvin have something in common.
Logan's never been to school, so there was some unfamiliar territory there, but he watches Johnny Test, which has clued him in to all the school talk and the issues with school, so he gets why Calvin hates school.
In fact, it seems like just about any books or shows we read/watch, there is a lot about the soul-crushing aspects of school, so I guess that's a pretty common theme for kids.
We talked about why Suzie is my favorite character, after Hobbes.
I'm a big fan of Calvin and Hobbes, and the first edition of the collections was no different. If ever I need to feel uplifted, and have a little chuckle to myself, then I can just go back to the child tearaway that is Calvin, and the imaginary friend I always wished I'd had that is Hobbes. My favourite cartoon series of all time, and a delightful first collection.
My childhood favourite comic strip. Reading it nowadays brings you back to the feeling of endless summer days spent with your best friends... Real or imagined
Calvin and Hobbes are tow of the most likeable and characters you will fine in this fun advancer you will fined comady and lots of fun you rely need to read this book.
Big grin.
Read this as a challenge prompt for a Top Selling book the year you graduated from high school. It definitely holds up. Unfortuanately I am now relating to Calvin's parents rather than to him. Frowny face.
Easily among the most clever of comic strips, Watterson's cartoons of the boy Calvin and his imaginative ( real Tiger ) Hobbes was a treat to read daily and in this 127 page soft cover collection. All black and white strips. Great stuff!
