https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169875.Searching_for_Dragons
Searching For Dragons, really?I think in the whole book there was only one dragon.  MY FEELINGS  I was burning with excitement after reading its first book. BUT ugh! This book extinguished every flare of excitement and left me damped. As you know wet things don't catch fire rapidly. Hehehe... I think that was the worst comparison ever made. I don't know how it came in my mind.Back to the point, this was not the book I was expecting from the author of Dealing With Dragons. beginning was almost si
We came to know very much about this forest in this book Like: (view spoiler)[ Every place in this Forest changes its location and There is magic in its atmosphere.
Just as in its first book.WizardsI liked them as villains except for one thing (see next section).
To be honest, I didn't like how they saved Kazul.(view spoiler)[Mendanber's Magical SwordThis book was keep telling us that his sword is leaking magic so that any magical creature can trace them and can cause harm BUT!
(hide spoiler)]According to facts I mentioned above I would give:* 3.2 Dull Stars *I think its first book was far better than this.
I haven't ever properly reviewed this series, but just let it be known that it's the greatest series about dragons of all time, and I mean better than my books, better than anything. I think more than anyone else, Wrede's writing in this series is my biggest influence.
Patricia C.
Wrede has been one of my favorite authors for her witty, original use of common fantasy themes.
This is the 2nd book of her 4 book series, and is one of my favorites.
This book is a great read for all ages, with laugh out loud humor.
Violence: mild g-rated violence with melting wizards, and fighting rock-snakes.Language: Mendenbar takes the Lord's name in vain about 3 times, but that is all, the rest is "he cursed under his breath," etc.Sexual themes: G-rated pressure for Mendenbar to get married, and innocent attraction between him and someone else.
Searching for Dragons introduces a new character, Mendenbar, who is the king of the Enchanted Forest.
Mendenbar stumbles across burnt spots in his forest and a bunch of dragon scales in the area.
On the way to figuring out the story behind everything, he meets Morwen and Cimorene.
This installment had Cimorene taking a back seat so we didn't get to see much of her witty and clever side which was a shame.
Mendenbar was definitely the 'main' character in this one.
The book continues to break stereotypes (who said a magic carpet ride had to be glamorous?) and quite a few buckets of soapy lemon water make appearances in this fun sequel to Dealing with Dragons.
Enjoying rereading this series. I didn't like this one as much as the first but I still found it a lot of fun.
Searching for Dragons follows the adventures of Cimorene, but is told from the point of view of Mendanbar, the King of the Enchanted Forest.
The change of perspective is nice, and also enables the reader to see exactly how charming Cimorene is from the outside.One of the things I appreciate about Wrede is the fact that, while her characters bemoan the silliness of princesses, they cast aspersions on the silliness of princes just as often.
The cast of characters in this book is larger than in Dealing with Dragons, but each new character is completely captivating in his or her own right.
4.5-ish. Really enjoyed this a lot - even more than the first one!
Slow re-read over the past few weeks. A charming story with the ever un-traditional and amazing Cimorene, the wise Morwen, intellectual Telemain, and sweet Mendanbar. I really love them all. Am I officially getting old? Mendanbar is practically a baby, just 20!
Unfortunately, I was not NEARLY as pleased with the 2nd book in the series as I was the 1st.
Searching for Dragons is a follow-up of Cimorene, and the Dragon King Kazul.
Suspecting the ever sneaky wizards, Cimorene decides to take matters into her own hands and find Kazul.
The story follows their adventure as they search for Kazul and encounter helpful, and un-helpful, characters along the way.Here's the problem.
D'oh.I'll keep reading the series, just to see how it all ends, and if it gets better.
And I'll even read these stories to my kids.
http://bookslifewine.com/r-searching-...4.5 stars rounded down to 4 starsYet another adorable submission to the Enchanted Forest Chronicles! I simply adored Searching for Dragons and I’ve decided I really need to finish the entire series.In Searching for Dragons the reader gets to meet up with Cimorene (Dealing with Dragons) again. This time, Kazul (King of the Dragons) is missing and it’s up to Cimorene to find her. Read the rest here: http://bookslifewine.com/r-searching-...
I loved this sequel as much as its predecessor! In fact, perhaps a little more, but only because I'm a sucker for journeys to complete quests and I really liked the whole host of new characters we get to meet too. It's a very enchanting little tale, and once again, a lot of fairytale tropes turned on their heads!
Why is it that reviews on the back of books never do the book justice? Mendanbar is hot and awesome and awkward. And Finally there is a man cool enough for tough Cimerene. Plus, several scenes with wizards make me so... happy.
While it focuses on Mendanbar, the King of the Enchanted Forest, rather than Cimorene the plot is still extremely engaging and as humorous as the first.
Indeed, Morwen and Kazul are both present as well, and plenty of time is taken up expanding the Enchanted Forest and adding to its unlikely - and charming - lore.King Mendanbar discovers that the Enchanted Forest is losing some of its land, as well as the magic therein.
What follows is an adventure with Mendanbar and Cimorene, complete with bumbling giants, a faulty magic carpet, and conniving wizards.
There are many things I like about Enchanted Forest Chronicles and obviously the characters are the main reason, but having read this series 4 times now I still really love the magic system of the forest.
It's nothing new really, it's just so cool to me - the way King does his spells.
When I read this book for the first time I thought that all of those threads and knots of magic were the coolest thing ever.
It didn't occur to me that you might have a real reason.” Cimorene is still one of my all time favorite female characters.
My 11 year old son gave this 5 stars. It was fun!
Awwwwwww <3 <3 <3On to the next one!!!4.5 Stars
Mendanbar, king of the Enchanted Forest, Cimorene, princess of dragon Kazul, a sword that leaks magic, and a faulty magic carpet must travel to find the missing King of the Dragons.
Mendanbar, the king of the Enchanted Forest that was never mentioned in the first book, teams up with Cimorene, our “unconventional” princess to find and rescue Kazul.
All in all, it’s a pretty dull plot.Mendanbar and Cimorene spend the majority of the book bumbling around and meeting seemingly irrelevant characters who gain a purpose near the end.
Very bad romance.The second thing I disliked was how the book, and Mendanbar, felt the constant need to talk down about other princesses in comparison to Cimorene.
You could stay here. At the castle, I mean. With me.Cimorene teams up with King Mendenbar in order to rescue the King of the Dragons, Kazul, from the evil wizards!Filled with as much adventure as the first! Can't wait to read the rest of the series.Also the audiobook has a full cast, so its pretty much amazing.
AAAAAAHHHHHAHAHAHAHAHA i loved this hrksfmafndjnahdjaksjdka
Fun sequel to Dealing with Dragons! Not a huge fan of Mendanbar (he's a bit bland) and I really missed Kazul, but it's still a great quick read.
I didn't read this book way back when because I had gotten it spoiled and didn't want Cimorene to get married. Now I have, and the book is good and properly Wredesque. I will continue to read the series when I get hold of the third book.
If you liked the first book, you'll certainly like this one...
we actaully get to experience the Enchanted Forest for which the series is named, and it's King, who is the main character of this volume.It has all the fun shout outs and endearing character bits of the first book, and does a nice job tying together different bits of the world.The action, though, was a bit lacking, and the eventual resultion was rather easy and obvious...
One could almost consider this more of a fantasy detective novel, really, which is fine, but didn't quite work as well.It's still quite a good book though, and there's clearly plenty of room for more stories (though both do stand alone just fine as well)
Dealing with Dragons (the first book in the series) is all about how Cimorene defies the princessly stereotype of frivolous bimbo waiting to be rescued and married.
In this second book, we're focused on Mendanbar, the King of the Enchanted Forest, rather than Cimorene.
Yet at the end, (view spoiler)[we see Cimorene and Mendanbar cheerfully agree to get married in the most painfully banal scene of the series.
Sure this is still a fairy-tale, but I expected so much better of Cimorene's much-touted good sense and level-headedness.
(hide spoiler)]Also, was anyone else bothered by the fact that none of the female characters understand what Telemain says when he speaks "technically" about magic?
This sequel was slightly disappointing, because one of the things I enjoyed about the first book was that Cimorene was allowed to dislike traditional princess behaviour without looking down on the other women who were more conventional. In this book, we see things from the perspective of the King of the Enchanted Forest, Mendanbar, and he often just dismisses women as 'silly' or 'annoying' throughout the narrative.
How can I even begin to describe my love for this book and the whole series?
This book is about The King of the Enchanted Forest, Mendanbar, who hates princesses.
Together Mendanbar and Cimorene set out on a quest to try and find her.This book is full of dozens of mentions of fairytales.
I had already read and loved the first book in the series.
And I will continue to read it (along with the rest of the books in the series) every year.
I would recommend this book to people who love and know fairytales.
Let me count the ways.1) Badass princess.
Much like Cimorene, he has little patience for fairy tale tropes, though some reluctant admiration for those who make it work for themselves (and he picks up on this himself).
Morwen is so cool, guys, and she's another of Wrede's badass women that fill this book.
There's Cimorene, of course, and Morwen the queen of everything and witches and cats, and Kazul, king of the dragons, cranky and contented.
The women in Wrede's books are never helpless, except by design, and I love that.4) Telemain!
I love Morwen a lot.
The third book in The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, if you start with Talking to Dragons (which really works best.)This one is told from the point of view of Mendanbar, King of the Enchanted Forest.
A talking squirrel sends him to Morwen, who finds that there was trickery and magic involved.
4,5/5*Občas chodívám hlídat děti jedné známé.
Pohádka o princezně Cimoreně je pro ně ta nejoblíbenější ze všech.
Horké maliny, draci s rýmou a princezna, která nesnáší vyšívání a rozhodně nechce být zachráněna princem - komu by se nelíbilo.
Jsem ráda, že jim konečně budu moct odpovědět na zapeklitou otázku "A CO BYLO DÁL?".Jestli máte rádi pohádky alespoň maliličkatou trošičku, přečtěte si to.
Slibuju, že se vám to bude líbit.První díl vyšel i v češtině (S princeznami to není lehké) a dá se žít i bez pokračování.
:) A druhý díl?
Ohoho.
Velmi důstojné pokračování.
Určitě obstojí u každého, kdo si jedničku zamiloval, fakt.
Fortunately there's a sort of crisis developing involving those nasty wizards and small areas of ecologic devastation to the Enchanted Forest, so Mendenbar can go walk about and see what's up.
The plot thickens when he runs into Cimorene, Chief cook and Librarian to Kazul, King of the Dragons.After a number of small scale and not very dangerous adventures among storybook characters with an embarrassing magic carpet, everyone makes it home for a good meal.Still a pleasure, but with less of Cimorene being clever, and more of her fencing prowess.
In the sequel to Dealing With Dragons, the Dragon King Kazul is kidnapped.
Princess Cimorene and the King of the Enchanted Forest join forces in their search.Rumpelstiltskin makes a cameo appearance, as does the Giant from Jack and the Beanstalk.
There's also a magic flying carpet.
I really liked the Wicked Uncle and the gargoyle.Perhaps it's because I've read both in the same month, but the Enchanted Forest Chronicles remind me a lot of the Howl's Moving Castle Books.
Both authors have a light-hearted tone and turn the expected conventions of the fairy tale world upside-down.
I look forward to reading the rest of this series.
