https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368522.Meditation_and_Its_Methods_According_to_Swami_Vivekananda
It help me to understand what is the real meditation ,what is power of meditation . and how meditation can bring enlightenment, happiness and peace to the the life of every human-being.
"This is the first part of the study, the control of the unconscious.""Whatever exists is one. There cannot be many.""The very essence of education is concentration of the mind, not the collecting of facts.""The powers of the mind are like rays of light dissipated; when they are concentrated, they illumine. This is our only means of knowledge.""It is all play. Play!"
Brings out the most important talks of Swami Vivekananda on meditation. The language is simple and very easy to read. Covers good points on meditation techniques, yoga, values and Advaita Vedanta. Very concise and a recommended read
I did not have many expectations before picking this book except that I wanted to explore what other techniques of meditation are possible other than the one I've practiced for the past 3 years.
If I had picked this book up say 4 years before and read things like Vivekananda used to see light at his forehead, I would've thrown this calling it a hoax, however, some of these I experienced during my own practice, only that I did not know what they were.
This book was a short read.
Anyway this is another opportunity to talk about beloved master Swami Vivekananda.
Before the West knew anything about Yoga, there was a man of immense human noble qualities and stature who was destined to change that forever.
And so, in 1893, during the World of Parliament of Religions forum at the Art Institute of Chicago, Swami Vivekananda talked about Hinduism, about Vedanta and Yoga.Yogananda's forerunner, Narendra and who only lived 39 years, listen to this, 39 years!
Amen & OM, This is the most elevated of teachings about self realization and all I can say is do please purchase this book, it will change your perception of life for the better!JESUSJAY
This is one of those books you want to keep in your purse, bag, car, any place that you can grab and read when you have some down time.
Just turn to any page and there is food for thought, spiritual reminders, and wisdom waiting for you.
So, there is no limit to the times you can read it, because as humans we very easily forget, we easily get caught up in the mundane and insignificant, so having something you can read to remind us of what really matters helps us to evolve on a frequent, if not daily basis.
Excellent book on ways to meditate.
It doesn't merely state practical ways of meditation, but explains the philosophy behind it and ultimate goal of meditation.
Broadly it describes two ways to meditate.
One through Raj-yoga (through control of mind) and other through understanding Vedanta - the non-duality (soul and brahma).This is more of philosophical book than a guide to those who are just beginners wanting to learn meditation.
Some discussions and terms are highly difficult to understand, you need a guru to explain to you that in detail.This book will certainly help you to take a step towards fearlessness and equanimity.
Though the title makes the subject clear, this book touches upon many factors beyond it, yet related. The mind, it's ways of functioning and the essence of meditation techniques in light to understand this whole logic. The simplistic nature of swamiji's explanations are easy to understand and comprehend.
This book is Awesome
A must read for everyone. Clear articulation of ideas. Brilliant choice of words.
Ocean in a pond.
This deals with techniques of self realisation in simplest and most informative mannerjust follow the lifestyle , path shown and in near future you felt the bliss.
How the heck a tiny book like this contain this much information and wisdom? This man is deep.I just started reading The Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda.
Spectacular work on spirituality and presented in a basic explanation...
Very interesting..
Apart from being an excellent read on basic meditation, especially for people who need the push and are intrigued vis a vis where to begin learning to meditate from, this book is probably the best source of the topic I have come across.
Along with meditation there are various other things that the book talks about, and the basic teaching about how to really be a better human being.
It talks about mind restraint, patience and dealing with people and misery on a daily basis.
Going to definitely read a lot more about Swami Vivekananda.
This book teaches meditation by two approaches "meditation by yoga" and "meditation by vedanta". I really like the thoughts expressed in the book about the need of religion and how religion can drive people to greater potentials, except the superstitions people follow those are the part of some non-sense that some people have made a part of religion. I also like the simple but effective yoga techniques presented in the book, though that requires time and effort to achieve but it provides great mental balance and energy for you to work throughout the day.
As most of the religions preach you to abide strictly to the rules laid out in their respective religious doctrines to make god happy, and to attain a peaceful state after death. Vedanta and Swami Vivekanda tells us the methods or mental exercises to leave peacefully when you are alive. The catch here is that, you need to work hard to get the fruits depicted in the book where as in other religions you can make god happy by simply chanting some lines from a book.
It is regrettable that we Indians who were once known as pioneers in this field, do not realise the power of meditation. We are always skeptical about meditation and its effects. Youngsters in this generation think that it is not cool to practice meditation. People should try to approach this with a scientific mind. Through this book swami vivekananda helps us understand what meditation is and how it should be approached. Hope everybody recognizes the use of meditation.
If you want to motivate yourself towards meditation, yoga and spirituality, I think this is the best book to go for! It is a unique and priceless collection of several bits of Swamiji's speeches, writings and talks. It is a simple yet serious read, brings out different aspects of self, the universe and the oneness of it all without overwhelming the reader.
Excellent master piece everyone should read this.Excellent master piece everyone should read this. Suggestion for everyone. I really enjoyed while reading this book. Want to read complete works now
EnlighteningIts a nice books which cover the sublte part of spiritual path, need of guru, Restrain of mind all things revealed by Swami Vivekanand . Book also cites the refrences of every things written in book.
Nice but less discussion about meditationBook is very nice no doubt but more about spirituality than about mediation. First few chapters are about mediation and moves on towards other areas of spirituality. Excellent read though!
Amazing book on meditation and its methods. Unless you practise it you are not going to reach anywhere. No matter how much you read.. You need to meditate. This is what Swamiji is highlighting... Certain insights are heart striking...
Great insights and inspirationalA great book to read for believers and non believers with focus on self and immense treasures hidden underneath our mortal bodies.
a lil looking book with immense knowledge 2 digest in the time u read.had a wonderful time reading it.... ya i recommend this book.
Good book Will recommend to reader who would like to start meditation..Very good book, but some where I feel the method is missing or not mentioned in detail...
No methods have been sharedNo methods of meditation have been sharef in it. However, what it does instead is that it tries to awaken u to the truth.
best to read
for motivation
