https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15820748-the-prince
Does anybody else's heart melt in to warm chocolately happiness whenever they think of Maxon?
I can't wait to read this!!!!! OMG OMG!!!    Prince Maxon!!!! There was another girl in Maxon's life WHAAAAATTTT???????============Update:(Read) 7/29/13
Reaction 1: A book about Maxon...? Followed immediately after by:Reaction 2: Fangirling time...Reaction 3:...WHAT DO YOU MEAN ANOTHER GIRL?! Reaction 4: March. Really? You've got to be kidding me. March.I want this book now........
Buddy read with my, girl Desireé :) 3 Knowledge isn’t love ★'s  “There was something about her.. Even the way she didn't like me drew me in, and I couldn't help but smile.” This novella is fast passed and really easy to read. But for me, it was just alright. I didn't love it but I can't say I hated it either. It's written in Prince Maxon's POV which was initially what drew me to want to read it in the first place. It takes place a couple of weeks before The Selection which just so happens to be
Buddy read with my, girl Desireé :) 3 Knowledge isn’t love ★'s 
It's written in Prince Maxon's POV which was initially what drew me to want to read it in the first place.
And seeing it all through Maxson's eyes.
I have loved Maxon from day one and this just helped solidify it even more.
Especially the one he has about America :) Maxon is so damn easy to love!
The clouds moved at just the right moment, fully lighting her face by the moon.
It stayed there for a moment, playing with my pulse.”
Illustration of Maxon & What I picture he'd look like.
It was a pretty good read and I'm glad to have been able to get a glimpse of Maxon's mind.
Personally I don't think Maxon has any feelings for her, though she herself is very clear about those.
Then the story moves on to where the selection starts and where he meets America in the garden onto the first official meetings with the girls.
We also get some insight to what he thinks about some of the other girls.
I also have decided I dislike his father a lot.But overall I liked this novella about Maxon.
JUST GIVE IT TO ME ALREADY. Pretty please? (Don't mind, Carlos... his body isn't ready)Edit 12/3/12 Holy moley! Look at the cover! It's purple and I am so loving the 'P'. I honestly expected Maxon in a dress. Eh, beggars can't be choosers. ;)
Español - English La historia El Príncipe está ambientada dos semanas antes de la Selección, a parti
So...My reaction when I realized not only was there going to be a Novella to the Selection series, but one from Prince Maxon's POV-my reaction might have looked a little something like this...yes.yes.Yes!My Reaction when I saw that I would have to wait until march...Yeah, I know the feeling.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI'm currently reading THE ROYAL WE with the Unapologetic Romance Readers (or the "Romaniacs", as Karly calls them), and that put me in the mood for more trashy royal drama. Conveniently, I received a notification that I'm next on the waitlist for THE SELECTION, and since the prequel was available, I thought I'd read it & see what I'm getting myself into.At its heart, THE SELECTION is an interesting and titillating idea - what happens if
Had this been written for an older audience (new adult, or even adult), I think it would have been much better, because then it could capitalize on all the things that make reality TV so fun to watch - swearing, sex, alcohol, fighting, name-calling, and passive-aggressively mugging for the camera in between all the former.I'm also not 100% sold on the world built around this story.
"The other girl" in Prince Maxon's life gets a few pages to air her misery before skiving off.
3.10.13I love that this novella is in Maxon's POV but i'm also disappointed because it was so short. I WAS EXPECTING MORE FROM MAXON'S SIDE OF THE STORY. *sigh*12.25.12OH. MY. GOD. It's written in Maxon's POV!!?!?
❝I smiled to myself thinking of America, measuring her against the other girls. She was pretty, if a bit rough around the edges. It was an uncommon type of beauty, and I could tell she wasn’t aware of it. There was a certain . . . royal air she didn’t seem to possess, though there was, perhaps, something regal in her pride. And, of course, she didn’t desire me at all. Still, I couldn’t shake the urge to pursue her. And that was how the Selection did its first act in my favor: if I had her here,
I didn't think it would, since America didn't like Maxon and found everything as a joke and didn't want to be where she was.
But since this is told in Maxon's point of view, everything is different and we actually look at the details about his thoughts about the girls, and when we come to America, all he literally thinks about is her and how beautiful she really is.
He gave himself time to think and when the right time came, he knew he wasn't in love with her but would soon find the meaning for love in his world.Meeting America was the same as it was told in The Selection.
I just love Maxon so much <3.
El punto con esta historia corta (QUE ES DEMASIADO CORTA Y ME PARECE FATAL PORQUE LA DE ASPEN TIENE MÁS PÁGINAS ¬¬) es que vemos a Maxon unas semanas antes de que empiece la Selección.
Ahora, lo mejor de esta historia es que vemos algunas de las escenas de La Selección desde el punto de vista de nuestro crush literario favorito <3.
Ver desde los ojos de Maxon ese primer encuentro con America en los jardines, o la primera entrevista que tiene con ella...
No, es algo que hago cada día —respondí, con una mueca, y los presentes soltaron algunas risas"."¿Qué era lo que la hacía sonreír con aquella ilusión?
Oookay, unf.I was worried about the other girl.
But at the end everything was good!
I just love how Maxon thinks, how all his life he had been taught to be someone, of how to be the prince and how he in his own way he rebels against it.
And I loooove his POV the first time he met America in the gardens, he really did fell for her at the begining.
Review before reading:Gimme, gimme!
Gimme NOW.Ooh, Maxon.
I'm not the kind of girl that chooses teams, but baby I'm Team Maxon all the way!
And not just because he's a princeling.
10-2-12; 10:45pm  : WHAT IS THIS? WHY AM I JUST NOW HEARING ABOUT THIS? GIMME!I hope they actually PRINT this! All these e-novellas are really getting me down. :c 12-30-12; 12:13pm  : NOOOO. ebook only?! :c 3-2-13; 9:14am Unfortunately, i will not get to read this book. Which is such a bummer. I'm really upset about it and the multiple e-book short stories being released. :c No e-reader = no bueno.
Unfortunately there's this pervasive bullshit lurking everywhere, assuring girls that they are more beautiful if they aren't aware of their beauty for some stupid reason I can't figure out.Fuck.
This isn't a quest for a Queen, it is, literally, the Bachelor in book form.The King has made sure there are girls with good connections in the mix, because connections are important when you run a country.
She isn't just going to be a trophy on Maxon's arm, she's not just his ~confidant~, she's his partner in running the damn country.But apparently that's not how royalty works in this series!

Gimme, gimme, gimme!!!! If you're gonna tell me there's a novella in Maxon's point of view that doesn't come out til march 2013, then don't tell me until the month, or even the week before! I can't deal with all this waiting!!!!!Please give me a sneak peak?
Short and sweet. This little novella features my favorite Prince. Maxon is too sweet and sheltered. I adore him and wish this book was longer. Highly recommended for diehard fans of the series.
I really like getting to know prince before everything starts. And I like that he is so nervous about the whole thing! Its adorable!
A book from Maxon's POV? HECK. YES! Wait... *sees that format is only e-book*
My heart…Prince Maxon…
Quick and easy read, providing a glimpse of Maxon's thoughts. If you enjoyed te first book in the series, you'll probably like this little extra as well. Retelling a few of the pivotal moments from 'The Selection' from Maxon's POV helped answer some of my lingering questions about what he was really thinking and what his motives were. Background information related to the selection of candidates and preparation for the "lottery" was revealed, exposing a few more pieces of the puzzle. Maxon's father and mother play more prominent roles in this book.
I'm not sure what this is about but for some reason I want to read it... well I have some idea what it's about but still... not much...It says that it's related to The Selection so I guess I'm probably going to read it. Curses now I'm excited!
I would definitely still read The Selection from Maxon's point of view, because damn my heart. My hopeless romantic soul can't help but love him.
I WANT MORE MAXON SHREAVE.Please.I don't care if you think I'm shallow for liking this series but Maxon is one of my fictional boyfriends and I love him so much.
This one wasn't that different from the  The Queen  for me. I still wasn't a big fan of the main character in this book, Maxon, whos perspective this is in. I know its a novella so the whole intention is to be short, but I still believe it should have been even just a little longer.I found that what happened in this book was a lot of what had already happened in  The Queen , just this time in Maxon's perspective, of course. I didn't really see the point of reading it all over again. Some parts w
This one wasn't that different from the 
I still wasn't a big fan of the main character in this book, Maxon, whos perspective this is in.
I know its a novella so the whole intention is to be short, but I still believe it should have been even just a little longer.I found that what happened in this book was a lot of what had already happened in 
, just this time in Maxon's perspective, of course.
I didn't really see the point of reading it all over again.
Some parts were different, but not many.While I wasn't a fan of this or 
a chance then decide if I want to continue reading on.
The problem was that I didn’t actually start liking Maxon till The Elite.Up until things started going wrong, and the action started to actually build, I always though Maxon to be pretty bland.
The entire first book her was kind of just ‘there’ for me.
I get why it didn’t.
Doing so would have ruined a big reveal in the later books, but I wanted more nonetheless.
I wanted a deeper behind the scenes look at Maxon and his life, and at what he dealt with in his life before the selection.
I just would have wanted more.
Now I am thinking, Maybe I am reading in the wrong sequence I should read these by following publish
You're too stupid to see love when it stands right in front of you."Maxon is just confused and frustrated because he doesn't want the selection to happen.
He does eventually see love when it stands in front of him and man it's adorable!
"Even if the girl you chose is of a very low caste, even if others think she has no value, I will always listen to your reasons for wanting her.
And I will do my best to support your choice."This is cute, I loved this novella and that's all I have to say.
