https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9627755-isla-and-the-happily-ever-after
Stephanie Perkins kept showing me why I love her in specific moments - like Barcelona, ohmygod - but as a whole this story was badly paced and badly plotted.
The only moment I felt the passion of the area was in that Barcelona moment and it was glorious but it was a dying spark of hope.4) The Themes: Not a single person on this planet is denying that Anna, Lola, and Isla are loves stories.
It was left hanging and that made me sad.5) The Plot Conflict Wasn’t Conflict: It’s tricky to say too much here without spoiling so I’ll keep it short: the main problem here?
“There’s no story,” I say. “I saw you one day, and I just knew." ^This pretty much sums up the most of this book.First, let's be clear: I enjoyed Perkins' Anna and the French Kiss and Lola and the Boy Next Door. They were pure romantic silliness, I know, but I liked the characters, the cute flirtations and the mindless entertainment. When this third book was released, I bought it immediately but some negative reviews from my friends put me off. I think I always expected to return to it eventual
They were pure romantic silliness, I know, but I liked the characters, the cute flirtations and the mindless entertainment.
The other books are about the usual crushes, tensions and jealousies that come with high school romances - like I said, mindless entertainment - but Isla and the Happily Ever After does not even have that.
The book opens with Isla drooling all over herself and being unable to function in the presence of Josh.
Where is the will they/won't they?Also, that aside, Isla's obsession with Josh is unhealthy and not even in a cute way.
“'There's no story,' I say. 'I saw you one day, and I just knew.'”  Stephanie, I adore you, I really do. You bring me so much joy with your fluffy story-lines. But you always seem to be able to ground all the fluffiness with some maturity. This one lacked maturity. I did like it, but I just couldn't bring myself to love it.My problem in one sentence: the setting was colourful, the characters weren't.The setting was beautifully wistful. I mean it's hard for it not to be when it's set in a city
I did like it, but I just couldn't bring myself to love it.My problem in one sentence: the setting was colourful, the characters weren't.The setting was beautifully wistful.
Because of this, at its best, it was a sweet, desire filled romance, played out in alleyways and under the indigo ink pot of the night sky (couldn't resist putting in an artsy metaphor).
The characters lacked maturity.Isla and Josh did not seem protagonist worthy to me.
Why did Stephanie choose to write about them?
THIS WAS SO ADORABLE AND FUNNY AND EXACTLY WHAT I WANTED TO READ! I didn't love it quite as much as Anna and Lola, and a few aspects were kind of frustrating, but despite that, I still really enjoyed it! I actually stayed up until 6am reading so I could finish it all in one sitting! I'll talk more about it in a video soon :)
Aww, two rich, horny kids (one - a stalker, the other - a self-centered "artiste") are not allowed to travel around Europe without supervision and have sex anywhere they feel like. How tragic!Perkins' romances are getting worse and worse. 1 star because she can do better than this.
*tries to pull off an Etienne St. Clair* I CAN'T BLOODY WAIT!
Okay, it was overly long and dramatic, but in real life, it usually does take MONTHS before something happens with the guy you like.
Then she's talking morning wood with Josh and she says she's seen it on Kurt before "but it's fine since we're such good friends", and then Kurt talks about Isla's breasts and the whole time I'm just like What?!
But then he shows he's interested too and there's this awkward thing where the reader OBVIOUSLY knows that Josh thinks there's something going on between Kurt and Isla but Isla is fucking oblivious so she won't say anything to clarify the situation.
4.5 stars Ridiculously adorable, and a lovely, note-perfect ending to this series. Review to come. -------------------------------------------------------The ARC is sooo pretty![image error]And for those interested, you can get these cute buttons + decals (and possibly a tote) by pre-ordering the book at one of these stores: http://penguinteen.tumblr.com/post/88...
Oh my.Oh my.If there's one thing I never expected to happen while reading Perkin's marvelous works, it's for me to curl up in bed and clutch my pillow with all my life as I sniffled away.But here I am doing that anyway.It's not for the reasons you may seem to think though– it's honestly really just the fact that I'm never going to be reading about these characters I've come to adore SO MUCH ever again, and coming to terms with that has left my emotions spazzing all over the place.But wow.
And with characters who're more of the shy and reserved kind, I found myself forming even more of an emotional attachment to them.All I can say is that Isla and the Happily Ever After is finally one ending to a trilogy that most certainly won't disappoint.
I feel like I've waited a hundred years for this book. I was  so  excited to get my hands on it.Now, I'm just so disappointed.A while back, I saw some negative reviews for Anna and the French Kiss that said the book was basically a bunch of rich teenagers whining over how their world wasn't perfect enough. I didn't actually have that problem with Anna and the French Kiss. I adored Anna and the French Kiss. Everything that happened in that book (albeit I will admit that Anna seemed snobby sometim
excited to get my hands on it.Now, I'm just so disappointed.A while back, I saw some negative reviews for Anna and the French Kiss that said the book was basically a bunch of rich teenagers whining over how their world wasn't perfect enough.
Which was a shame, because I so liked Josh in Anna and the French Kiss.Where to even begin?Let's start with Isla.
Which was very unique and quirky of her because she was the only other person in the school who seemed to like them, despite a later explanation of how common comic culture was in France.The only substantial thing I really got from her was how weak she was.She was so, so weak, and I couldn't stand it.
Instead, I got insta-love and a really annoying girl and repetitive plotlines and meh settings and general ickiness and an actually kind-of-okay guy, and even HE seemed confused as to how he didn’t get a better book.But we’ll get to all that.
And I got a hell of a lot of those vibes from this book.We follow Isla, who has had an unrequited crush on Josh for three f*cking years.
Josh loves Isla now, and, guess what, he always did!
But do you see how that’s not good for a book?How tragic for you, Isla and Josh, that life doesn’t just up and allow you to be together.
--- PROS: ✘ Isla's best friend, Kurt?✘ I can’t think of anything good but at the same time I don’t want to leave this blank CONS: ✘ CRINGEY instalove✘ The characters were such crybabies✘ CRINGEY banter✘ The plot? was ALL OVER the place ✘ CRINGEY relationship moments. ALL OF THEM.✘ I’m confused✘ CRINGEY writing style STAND-OUT SCENES INCLUDE BUT NOT LIMITED TO: ✘ "I've desired/loved him for 3 years but he never noticed"✘ "l'm wrong, he felt the same!"✘ "He's my bf now, YAY!"✘ “I hate my bf’s ex!”
✘ "I've desired/loved him for 3 years but he never noticed"✘ "l'm wrong, he felt the same!"✘ "He's my bf now, YAY!"✘ “I hate my bf’s ex!”✘ “omg, he's getting expelled from school!”✘ “omg, my life is over now that my baby is getting expelled!”✘ “I hate my bf’s ex!”✘ “omg, we’ll never see each other again!”✘ “omg, he just said on NATIONAL TV that he doesn’t have a girlfriend!”✘ “omg, we just broke up for no good reason!”✘ “I hate my bf’s ex!”✘ “omg, he got me A PRESENT!”✘ “omg, we’re BACK TOGETHER!”✘ “omg, I think I’m ok with my bf’s ex because her sister is my friend again!”✘ "WE'RE FINALLY LIVING HAPPILY EVER AFTER!"I will NOT re-read the first two books in this series because I’m hella scared and don’t want to trash my fetus faves.
I'm in love with Josh and I'm still in love with St. Clair and still think that Cricket is the most adorable thing in the world.
Maybe the romance moved a little too fast but then I remembered that for the other two books we had to wait until the end for the couple to kiss I get together or etcetera and I was more than okay with it.
Josh was such a sweetheart.
I'm swooning just remembering how cute he was.
BEFORE READINGThe cover's so pretty it makes me want to cry <3And I'll have this book my hands in just...
Isla changed mine.Stephanie Perkins knows the deepest corners of my heart; the spaces where the darkest secrets and most tragic insecurities lie.
Their limbs intertwined, their hearts beating as one, their silent spaces.In comparison to Anna and Lola, both which read--from the surface--to be "just another" contemporary romance with a blossoming love story, indomitable hurdle, and all-too-happy reconciliation, Isla is intense, explosive, and--dare I say it?--sensual.
Forget Anna and St. Clair, Lola and Cricket, because Isla and Josh are the love story I never even knew I craved.Like I said, this woman knows my heart better than I do.
And I will mention these instances through two of the main male characters, Josh and Kurt.
Beginning meaning when they used to see each other do mundane shit like walking or reading a book at Starbucks, not actually sitting down and spending time with each other.
She mentioned several times that she wants to be included in the "ugly parts" of Josh's life...
She treats him like shit and uses him when she wants to freak out about Josh.
She spends her time with Kurt, but talks about Josh 24/7.
I really can't wait for this book and I hope to love it just as much as I loved Anna! (which btw, is quite a whole damn lot!)Taken from the author's blog - this will be my Josh from now on :DSo, I read this today... "Finishing Lola was the hardest thing that I have ever done. It left me mentally, physically, and spiritually barren. I was close to quitting . . . everything. It's taken me a long time to recover, and I'm only feeling like myself again now, about six months later. As I've learned wi
You might say that this happened in "Anna..." too, and I won't be able to tell you why it worked better in that book.I did like Isla, I do love Josh, but they did the same mistakes the other couples did before them: they spent too much time being miserable just because they couldn't speak their mind and say they were sorry, or better yet just kiss and make up (already!).
Josh is an artist, his story should've left me breathless, but there was too much angst on Isla's side that I could barely feel all that.
4-4.5 ish starsIf I had to descibe this book in one sentence, it would be "typical." It's cute, and i'm sure if it's midsummertime and you're looking for something light and cutesie, this would completely fit the bill.
I liked this significantly more than Lola, but I still gotta say that Anna takes the cake.
You can't really go wrong with cutesie relationship books like these, so it was enjoyable overall.
The first book in this trilogy was really really good, but don't feel like you need to continue with the rest just because it's a series.
There's also the fact that I'm in love with Smith and I think he's by far the best male SATC character.I also hate that Steve cheats on Miranda, and basically, why?
Ugh, I could write an 800,000-word thesis on Steve and Miranda!Carrie and Big are the worst part of the movies because, like I said before, all of the tied ends for them are completely undone.
AND THEN THERE WAS THE MOVIE.What in the fresh hell were the writers thinking by having Big leave Carrie at the altar?
They're like Carrie and Big in the SATC movies.
I just wish we got to see Isla and Josh on the cover just like we did with previous couples.OMG!
I cried two times- when Lola and Cricket appeared and in the end because this book was beautiful.
I loved the way Stephanie incorporated her own personal issues into Josh's character.
Isla was so much darker and moodier than Anna and Lola.
Isla is the only Stephanie's female character I didn't have anything in common.
So far, I could see a lot of my traits in not only Lola and Anna but also in Etienne and Cricket.
Español - EnglishSin ninguna duda, este es mi libro favorito de la serie. Se ve mucho crecimiento en los personajes y adoro a Josh. Aunque me pareció forzado darle un final conjunto a las tres parejas de la serie en este libro.--Without a doubt, this is my favorite book of the series. You see a lot of growth in the characters and I love Josh. Although it felt forced to give a joint end to the three couples in the series in this book.
Isn’t it better to break it yourself?” When I first saw that this book would be about Josh and Isla, two characters that have first been introduced in AATFK, I must say that I wasn’t too excited about it.
But his girlfriend isn’t there anymore which allowed him to get into a new relationship and quite early in the book, you actually realize that Josh is quite an interesting character.
It was just way too much for me and even though I really like Josh and Isla, I just couldn’t enjoy the last scene of this book even though they’re a cute couple.
I also liked the last few chapters especially when the characters from books one through three reunite but for the most parts, I felt like there isn’t much in it except for a girl’s beyond serious obsession over a boy, boy eventually reciprocating the feeling and then lustful desires fulfilled only made a bit complicated with something not really complicated but eventually resolved with a happily ever after.
*le sigh*I have a feeling that this is just a strong case of “it’s not you book, it’s me” so allow me to usher you to a more positive and really enjoyable review of the novel.
This instalment takes place between two characters, Isla and Josh who attend the same boarding school in Paris.
After understanding that and as the book progressed, I grew to quite enjoy Isla as a character, just as I did with Anna in Anna and the French Kiss.
One of the main things I liked about Anna and the French Kiss and Isla and the Happily Ever After especially was the exploration of France and different countries.
I'm going to try to visit a couple of the places that I thought sounded pretty cool in the books.Overall, I am extremely happy with the book, these are like the rom-com's of YA and I love it.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Welcome to whatever this.....thing is! ✎ Chapter 1: (meet cute)Hmmmmmm ---Aren't Isla and gang basically a bunch of teenagers with first world problems. Girls are whiny and annoying(because stereotype) having cute-boy-won't-notice me syndrome and boys are sweet and cute and lovely and artistic and lovely and charismatic and funny and hawt and kind and everything and say quotes worthy sentences example “I don’t care about anything. But I care about you.” Hmmmmmmmmm There is a chance we might get
Girls are whiny and annoying(because stereotype) having cute-boy-won't-notice me syndrome and boys are sweet and cute and lovely and artistic and lovely and charismatic and funny and hawt and kind and everything and say quotes worthy sentences example “I don’t care about anything.
But I care about you.” Hmmmmmmmmm There is a chance we might get diabetes from all the sweetness and adorableness around.
*still doesn't care because St.Clair aka the French guy with an English accent who goes to an American school with a Canadian sticker on his backpack got a cameo*
4.5! So cute!
AHHHHHH OH MY GOD. 5am and I have finally finished this beauty, I could not put it down. Freaking fantastic.
Ok so the first two books were super cute and definitely some of my favorite YA contemporaries (even if I wasn't a fan of how Lola treated Cricket).
The only thing I really kept reading for was any mention of Anna, Etienne, Lola, Cricket, or the familiar SOAP setting.But otherwise the main story is how Isla finally gets to date the guy she's had a crush on forever but isn't sure if she's worth being loved.
The characters weren't as strong as in previous books, they didn't have as much development, aaaand there wasn't much of a plot overall.
I don’t want to ever forget.”3.5/5 starsIsla was not as good as Anna but way better than Lola.
I enjoyed returning to Paris, but some of the magic in Anna was lost.Out of all the guys I liked Josh the most.
I did not have the feeling that it was rushed or awkward, no, it seemed fitting and it really surprised me, since sex is usually not a thing that happens too often in regular YA romance novels.Of course, the melodrama could not be missing and it totally annoyed me again, destroying what was a wonderful relationship.The ending was EXTREMELY cheesy.
“There's no story,' I say. 'I saw you one day, and I just knew.” I started Isla and the Happily Ever After with pretty low expectations. After reading Anna and the French Kiss and absolutely loving it, I picked up Lola and the Boy Next Door and absolutely hated it. This one turned out to be in between. I quite enjoyed it, but it wasn't as cute and good as Anna and the French Kiss.I would describe Isla and Josh's relationship as cute and annoying at the same time. Some parts I was grinning like
After reading Anna and the French Kiss and absolutely loving it, I picked up Lola and the Boy Next Door and absolutely hated it.
I quite enjoyed it, but it wasn't as cute and good as Anna and the French Kiss.I would describe Isla and Josh's relationship as cute and annoying at the same time.
I'm aware he didn't mean for it to seem that way, but come on, Josh sweetie, think.I absolutely loved the cameo at the end, basically all the characters from the previous books appear: Étienne, Anna, Lola, Cricket and Meredith.
During the first half of the book I was slightly disappointed because everything was just too cliche and they fell in love so fast, I expected more from Stephanie Perkins...
She manages to have control over my emotions with her perfect characters and writing, this book was no exception!Isla and Josh were beyond cute and I fell in love with them from the very start (even from Anna and the French kiss!!).
Especially when it is done so well!!I will forever be thankful for the one and only Stephanie Perkins for this series, any book she writes in the future I will not think twice about buying!
