https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/840043.The_Rise_and_Fall_of_the_Great_Powers
I never got to take that non-existent course, but got what I wanted in "Rise and Fall of Great Powers." Paul Kennedy wrote a 500-year history of grand strategy in world history, as first one European empire followed by another tried to achieve the perfect synthesis of absolute security and prosperity, and in the process scaring the hell out of smaller states who would combine to bring down the threatening giant.
"Rise and Fall of Great Powers" came out towards the end of the Cold War, when American economic supremacy was questioned by the expensive military need to contain the Soviet Union worldwide.
Sure, the thesis is "simplistic" or "schematic" or "deterministic" or whatever other bombastic term pseudo-intellectuals (and legitimate intellectuals alike) choose to use, but one has to understand that the project of this book is to make some sort of reasonably defensible generalization about what leads to the fall of great powers throughout history.
But his thesis about imperial overstretch is instructive and a useful lens through which to view the powers over the years.His predictions, as we have seen, have proven far from true, but, hey, he's a historian, not a clairvoyant.
Economic resources fuel rises in power that lead to military buildups to protect that power.
This is important for IR theory because it means that balancing through alliances and internal balancing through defense buildups may not be enough to overcome a rising powers with exaggerated rates of economic growth.
As I was reading this book, I thought to myself that this couldn’t have been the origin of the idea of imperial overreach.
However, as I was reading this book I couldn’t but think that there was a wealth of insights on the idea of imperial overreach just outside this book’s purview.
In the end, he never gets to the "ultimate question," which was the enchanting goal of Jared Diamond's "Gun's, Germs, and Steel." Kennedy spends a lot of time harping on the miraculousness of Europe's fractured city-state medieval political system as an incubator of ideas, a laboratory for military technology and political innovation, where states could experiment with their own ideas and borrow successful ideas from others.
While worth reading, a reader looking for an attempt to address the ultimate question of why Europe was center of world power rather than Asia, the Middle East, or Africa, should pick up Diamond's shockingly original and impressive book instead.
Well, because one of the Great Powers discussed at length is Russia - which at the time of writing this book, the author knew better as the USSR.
Just as well, while discussing European powers, within the 20th Century the author refers to them as EEC countries - because the creation of the European Union (which was going to absorb EEC and become sort of a continuation) was still some time away.
Compared to the height of its power relative to the rest of the world at the end of WW2, the United States has definitely declined, remaining supreme only in the costly area of military power.As for the U.S. economy, it's almost humorous when Kennedy estimates that if the trend continues, the U.S. will have a national debt of $13 trillion by the year 2000, intending to shock the reader.
Well, here we are in 2015 and the national debt is $18 trillion, with the one-time creditor to the world being deeply in dept to both China and Japan.If you want to eliminate the confusion that can come from reading many unrelated histories, here is the book to put all in context.
The author did a fantastic job of linking economic power to the ability to fund military power.
The book did end with a discussion on how the Soviet Union, Western Europe, Japan, China, and the United States would progress beyond the 80's.
How the cheaper third world is easily taking our manufacturing capabilities (economic power) so we can enjoy cheap commodities.
It takes quite some time to read due to the length and depth of the periods covered.
The author did a marvelous job of research into the economic and military histories of the aforementioned subjects.
." And, on the same page: "The `military conflict' referred to in the book's subtitle is therefore always examined in the context of `economic change.' The triumph of any one Great Power in this period, or the collapse of another, has usually been the consequence of lengthy fighting by its armed forces; but it has also been the consequence of the more or less efficient utilization of the state's productive resources in wartime, and, further in the background, of the way in which that state's economy has been rising or falling, relative to the other leading nations.
It then shows the increasing importance of finance to distinguish those nations who fund their wars to a significant extent with the wealth they generate - especially Great Britain - from those who struggle to do so.The upcoming industrial revolution translates into additional power driven from the relative importance of industrial production to explain the dominance of industrial powerhouses over others.The analysis of the 20th century will add to that new or increasingly important other resources like iron, steel, coal, etc.
Similarly, Kennedy's prognosis for the United States seems, especially now, to have been borne out, almost frighteningly so:Although the United States is at present still in a class of its own economically and perhaps even militarily, it cannot avoid confronting the two great tests which challenge the longevity of every major power that occupies the 'number one' problem in world affairs: whether, in the military/strategical realm, it can preserve a reasonable balance between the nation's perceived defense requirements and the means it possesses to maintain those commitments; and whether, as an intimately related point, it can preserve the technological and economic bases of its power from relative erosion in the face of the ever-shifting patterns of global production.
This is a really important book to read for students of diplomacy, military history, and grand strategy.
It covers the economic and military reasons for the rise and fall of great powers.
The final chapter on the bipolar world of the USSR and US has been eclipsed by events, but the earlier chapters are a must read.
Far from being a geographic determinist like Mackinder and Jared Diamond, Kennedy does deal effectively with the contributions of culture and polity to the rise and fall of nations without descending to a Gibbon-style rant on decadence.
Uzun soluklu okudugum, esimin "başucu" kitaplarindan "Büyük Güçlerin Yükseliş ve Cöküşleri" Tamamıyla yabancısı olduğum, uzun zamandir okumaya cesaret edemediğim bir alanın eseri olduğu için incelememi alıntılardan çok genel içerik özetine ayıracağım.Öncelikle 1500-2000 yılları arasında ekonomik değişme ve askeri çatışmalar bu güne kadar gördüğümüz klasik kitaplardaki gibi değil, yalın ve akıcı bir dille anlatılmış. Bu edinilen bilgilerin akılda kalması adına çok verimli bir şey bana göre. Ayrıca tarih kitaplarında çokça rastladığımız olayların zamanlarını tarihleri sıralamak mantığından uzak durulması ile sıkıcılıktan uzak bir kitap. Aralara serpiştirilmiş alıntılar bilmediğiniz, anlayamadığınız konularda ip ucu verme özelliğiyle ferahlatıcı.Eğer mümkün olsa 5 yıldızdan fazlasını vermek isterdim.
The key determinant (@ Kennedy) is relative, not absolute decline).
British GDP grew, in absolute terms, while it declined relative to the US and others.
Thus do great powers ebb...
The US peaked in early 2000, though a debt bubble managed to keep things aloft for another few years.http://www.marketwatch.com/news/story...When China meets the US, China will be poorer on a per capita basis, but will FEEL richer as it is ascending; while the US, with a small population, will be richer on a per capita basis, but will FEEL poorer, as it is descending.The markets have already started to discount this process -- as markets anticipate....
Three years later it stepped into a bipolar conflict with the Soviet Union on a global scale.It is sometimes hard to understand some rationale during the Cold War with the benefit of the hindsight.
Not so much in terms of military power, but due to domestic opinion and the lack of adaptation to small scale war led to humilitating retreat.Kennedy is right that two factors were favourable for the US: Kissinger's move to make China an ally and hence creating a new front for Soviet Union in case of war and the lack of economic and military power of the Eastern European countries.Again, it is important to remind that the book ends in 1988.
Written in 1987, Kennedy weaves the economic histories and military histories of the Great Powers and show how empires can be won or lost by ignoring one or the other and how military and economic concerns support each other as a country interacts with the world.Why I started this book: Epic scope, and just released as a 30 hour audio book, I was eager to tackle this history.Why I finished it: First, most history books break up history into themes, time periods or regions of the world.
Profound analysis of the period of time in International Relations, including lots' of statistics and emphasis on the economic factors.
Given that Kennedy relies on more than 500 years of years of European history for most of its underlying data, that detail is considerable, on which more below.Kennedy’s central thesis is summarized in the promotional material as follows: As the relative strengths of leading nations in world affairs never remains constant, there is an optimum balance between wealth creation and military strength over the long term.
And even if you’re a serious student of political economy, you may wish that Kennedy had spent somewhat more time developing and discussing his thesis than presenting the supporting data in such detail.But enough of the down side.
Its subject is nothing less than the history of the Great Powers from 1500-2000, viewed from the lens of military and economic power.
But on the subjects Kennedy chooses to cover--the interaction between economic prosperity and military might, the changes in technology that shake up the international order--no other work can match its vision.
Kennedy wisely eschews any general theory to explain these changes: his most sweeping points--that all power is relative, that military strength must be commensurate to national wealth, and that the wellsprings of national wealth change over time--are neither new nor particularly controversial.
I read this a long time ago, about the time of publication, prior to the fall of the Soviet Union.
It is amazing to read something written about the flaws of the Soviet system without any hindsight - Kennedy made clear that the flaws were clearly in evidence, and that the USSR was in decline.
This is heavy, meaty historical/economic analysis of the modern world, and demands that readers have a grasp and foundation in European history (it is centered there) as Kennedy weaves in actors and events without explaining them.
I would recommend the last chapters for those wanting a contemporary view of the world prior to the end of the bipolar era.

A brilliant concept with a mostly-engaging presentation marred occasionally by repetition.The book discusses what makes a nation-state "great" and follows what the author calls the "great power system" from its first rise in the 1500s up until the mid-1980s.
He provides a brief history of the rise of each power and its subsequent fall along with the underlying reasons for its "greatness".
The book concentrates on why powers rise and fall and provides little more than a cursory discussion of the actual history to identify broad trends, so this is not really a history book, it is more of a political science book.It is very interesting and thought-provoking but does drag in places.
The book explores the politics and economics of the Great Powers from 1500 to 1980 and the reason for their decline.
Kennedy argues that the strength of a Great Power can be properly measured only relative to other powers, and he provides a straightforward and persuasively argued thesis: Great Power ascendency (over the long term or in specific conflicts) correlates strongly to available resources and economic durability; military "over-stretch" and a concomitant relative decline are the consistent threat facing powers whose ambitions and security requirements are greater than their resource base can provide for.
This book covers from the Ottoman Empire to The Cold War; roughly 500 years in as many pages.
This brisk pace makes the mostly military history come across like a zoetrope; animation through rapid motion.
The approach to war is one of the logistics over strategy; technology and foreign cash reserves factor in more than geography and division count.
However, even then there were still relevant topics: Latin America's drugs into the US, the rise of China, America's uncertain future as superpower, and the rise of Asian economies like aging Japan.
Like the end of history by Fukuyama and Clash of Civilizations by Huntington, this is one of the big idea history books and I mean big idea as in "the fox knows many things the hedgehog know one big thing".
this is a hedgehog book tracing the rise and fall of powers on the fortunes of commerce for the rise and military expenditure and overextension for the fall.
Fairly simple big idea iterated over the past 500 years.
That is the big idea traced in the book and narrative Kennedy gives to western history.

Densely loaded with economic, demographic, and other historical data makes this book's conclusions all the more solid and reasonable. The book has aged well since its publication, now decades old (The small exception being the final chapter, in which he proceeds to contemplate the "approaching" 21st century). Kennedy's explanation for why different empires have risen to power and then burned out and fallen by the wayside is not cheery when one looks at America now. If anything, we seem to be moving faster than most along the path he described.
4.5È stato un percorso lungo e tortuoso, ma alla fine ce l'ho fatta."Ascesa e declino delle grandi potenze" è un saggio storico economico affascinante e illuminante, per certi versi. Consigliato a chi abbia voglia di esplorare in modo un po' più approfondito i risvolti che caratterizzano gli avvenimenti che così tante volte abbiamo studiato a scuola, in modo meccanico e, a mio parere, sbagliato.La storia non è solo una materia noiosa o mnemonica, e alcuni autori riescono a fartela rivalutare! Kennedy è uno di questi.
A thoroughly researched, well-written book. Published in the late '80s just prior to the fall of the Soviet Union, this sweeping 500-year survey is still relevant today, if not more so. Imperial overstretch has felled many a great Empire...
Not only the best grand strategy book I've ever read, but quite possibly the best non-fiction work as well. This book has quite a reputation, and it certainly lived up to it.
The rise and fall of the Great Powers with which he is concerned is based upon the waxing and waning of economic strength, the ultimate measure of which is the ability to fight and win a war.
The success of Kennedy's book is testimony to the continued relevance of a traditional approach to international relations.Few could dispute Kennedy's assertion that in the final analysis, American financial interests made intervention on behalf of the Allies a nearly foregone conclusion.
