https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862000.The_Invisible_Intruder
Listen, Ned: If two guys kidnap you and you somehow manage to escape, you HAVE TO TELL THE POLICE.
I know your girlfriend is a detective and all, but that doesn't really count.
The bad guys WROTE DOWN THEIR EVIL PLAN and then LEFT IT IN THE BACKSEAT OF THE CAR THEY KIDNAPPED YOU IN!
See, this is why you're not a boy detective like the Hardy Boys.
I had high hopes for this book, considering it included a picture of a "flying" octopus! Overall, though, it was a disappointment. Nancy's entourage is too big for my taste, and the adventure seems a bit lackluster -- at least until the end, when it picks up a bit. The illustrations are also less than impressive. At least the story includes a "talking" sting ray and a mention of "dangerous snails."
Nancy Drew strikes again in this tale of a haunted house and room full of skulls.
As Helen says when the group draws lots for sentry duty in their investigation of the phantom horse:We didn't see a thing....I'd like to bet that if there is going to be any excitement it will come during the time Nancy Drew is here!I did enjoy that she and Jim were able to assist Nancy and Ned in the grand finale--capturing the crooks and handing them over to the police.The other interesting feature of this book is that Nancy and her friends set out to investigate five mysteries instead of just one.
I last read this book in 2009 and rated it 3.5 stars.
I think I like it a little bit better the umpteenth time around reading it, particularly the last few chapters that talk about the giant clam, snail that builds shells on itself, and the starfish.
I learned a lot about sea life!
However, the previous chapters with the ghost hunting were pretty boring.
Even though I am bumping up my rating to 4 stars, it really is more of a 3.75 stars, rounded up.
I would place this book in the bottom half of the 56 classic Nancy Drew mystery series.
I didn't like this one as much as I had remembered. I loved having the whole gang there, but they really weren't in their best form. instead of finishing each of the mystery's as she went along, Nancy always left as they got close to an answer claiming "She'd be back later." It makes sense for the flow of the book but not Nancy's character.
"Helen was very pretty, and her tall, good-looking husband was full of fun."
This was my first Nancy Drew and is still my favorite. Thank you Ms Drew for giving me the love of reading and mysteries!!
The biggest coincidence in this book is that all 5 mysteries are connected and are being caused by the same people!!
The Invisible Intruder of this book has little to nothing to do with the story(in fact I don't even know who or what the invisible intruder is!).
There are also three married couples that join Nancy's group and are barely introduced and pretty much do nothing in the story.
Nancy and her friends get all the excitement and action, so what's the purpose of throwing in useless people we never heard of with forgettable personalities?

While I enjoy what could be with this book, the mysteries are so thin. Seriously, if the bad guy can invent some of the technology used in this book he could make more off the patents than what his schemes would ever think of bringing in. Wilbur Prizer kind of reminds me of the silver age Lex Luthor, a scientist who spent obscene amounts of money to create robots and such to distract Superman while millions were stolen. Does. Not. Compute. :-)
This book is a very action packed, adventurous book. I love the Nancy drew series because of all of the creepy chapters. The thing I love about this book is that at the end of every chapter, she puts a cliffhanger so that you will want to keep reading. I recommend this book for anyone. Five stars!!!
One of the better nd mysteries, I feel. Or maybe just more entertaining ? Although I thought the group was too big. I liked the large collection of mysteries and how quickly she moved through them. The plot/motive was pretty worn out. And I think one of the mysteries was not actually solved- thunder during the seances?
Really enjoyed it n all the haunting events. Too many characters n may was not needed. Made it a great discussion books. Provided space for questions.
This book is one of my favorite Nancy Drew books. I enjoyed rereading it.
I didn't care for this one too much. It seemed complicated with 5 mysteries to solve. Although the gang did have to work harder to solve this one, it took awhile to evolve.
An unusual Nancy Drew mystery, 5 mysteries in one book! Quite thrilling and unexpected!
Reading this as an adult, I see how my early, voracious YA appetite was fueled by books that shoveled information over literary flair, where telling trumped showing.
Loooooove.
The Invisible Intruder  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 46th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew and her friends go on a ghost hunting expedition and become involved with a gang of thieves who concentrate their activities on collectors of valuable shells. In a dramatic climax, Nancy outwits her enemy in an eerie mansion and traps him in the fantastic Room of Skulls. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was
is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 46th book in the 
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
this book was an interesting but scary book. I was nearly scared out my wits when i was reading the part where Bess and Nancy see the ghost
The Invisible Intruder is another fairly average Nancy Drew mystery.
The story does manage to be pretty suspenseful at times, but most of the other ghost-hunting couples are completely bland and add barely anything to the story.
I did sort of like learning some new things about various shells, but at the same time, why shells?
(hide spoiler)] I did like that Nancy took on a more supernatural mystery, and there were some interesting scenes, but it's not one of my favorites.
Her friend Helen from the first few books and her husband are in this book.
Actually, all of her friends are in this book and are more than just mentions.
For the first time, we get an inkling that Bess and Dave might be more serious than the other couples.
I'm guessing that Bess and Dave get married in the near future - probably around book 70.
As for this story - Helen and Jim along with 3 other married couples invite Nancy and her single friends on a ghost hunting outing.
OMG.
Helen Corning Archer appears in this one.
But aside from her and her husband and the Regular Five sidekicks, there are a bunch of other people.
Too many to keep track of.This is an obvious case of people trying to scare others off a property.
Pro tip: If you own a desirable piece of land and a strange phantom suddenly appears and then a few days later some sketchy dude tempts you with an unsolicited lowball real estate offer, the latter is responsible for the former.
There's also a bunch of stealing of valuable seashells.
I liked that there were multiple mysteries to solve and then they ended up being linked.
The writing was okay and the plot moved at an amicable pace.
Having read this one after some Nancy Drew books that were written later on I can say that I do prefer the earlier style of writing.I also enjoyed the idea of the "ghost hunters" although I felt there were too many to keep track of, 14 in total -Nancy, George, Bess, Ned, Burt, Dave, Helen, Jim and 3 other couples who were friends of Helen and Jim. An unnecessary extravagance which made things a bit confusing sometimes.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
Just like the back cover narrative promises...this was full of "cliff-hanging suspense and thrilling action". I think Nancy Drew was the originator of forensic / CSI, because at one point she determines from a speck of mud and a piece of hair that "the intruder has dark, bushy hair, and he may be staying near a stream where ferns are growing."Reading these stories is almost as good as watching The Bionic Woman episodes!
I read Nancy Drew Chronicles when I was in high school. This book left a mark in me. Well-written, unpredictable and I really got scared! It's nice to remember books I read in 90's. Ha, it wasn't all Sweet Valley High books.
It was really nice. It's about a group of friends going to places where supernatural happenings are seen often and trying to track down and hunt the people who are actually doing tricks to make others feel that there are ghosts for real in these places. Five stars. Grasping read. For anyone who loves a superb mystery.
Now I'm not about to start writing reviews for every Nancy Drew book because there is over 50 of them but this seemed to be different. I could tell a difference in the writing compared to the others I've read and the story was very interesting. Wouldn't it be cool if there were really ghost hunter clubs around here? :)
