https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84785.The_Overlook
I remember enjoying the serialized version, but, as one would expect, the novel winds up being a fuller and richer experience.As the story opens, Detective Harry Bosch has just been reassigned to the L.A.P.D.'s prestigious Homicide Special Squad.
It appears that terrorists may have used the pictures to force Stanley Kent to give them extremely dangerous radioactive material.The Feds, of course, want to take over the case and are, logically, pursuing it as part of a dangerous terrorist plot.
While Bosch recognizes the threat, from his perspective this is principally a homicide investigation and he insists on being allowed to pursue it.
Michael Connelly has made a name for himself by creating the characters Harry Bosch and Mickey Haller.In The Overlook, Connelly’s 2007 entry into the Harry Bosch files, the mystery writer takes on a case where Bosch must work with the FBI in a suspected terrorist case.This is the 13th Harry Bosch novel (Connelly began the series with The Black Echo in 1992) and the LAPD detective again demonstrates his Holmes-esque attention to detail and also his inability to follow bureaucratic rules.
2 stars – It was neither good not bad. As my younger friends say meh!The most exciting thing that happened in this Harry Bosch novel was learning a bit about the radioactive material cesium and what could happen if it were used in a terrorist plot. All seemed too familiar, like the same old. A short story that seemed rushed. What saved The Overlook from becoming a DNF was the continued fine performance by Len Cariou in narration.
Harry Bosch now works in the Robbery-Homicide Division in the Homicide Special unit follow the events of Echo Park.
FBI Agent Rachel Walling makes a return and is a major factor in the story.
Even though I figured out the villain early on, there were still some surprises at the end.
Lou Cariou continues to work for me as the narrator of these stories.
I liked this one and the ending left some unanswered questions that I'm looking forward to having resolved in the next book.
He and his new partner are assigned an execution killing but it quickly becomes complicated when his ex-lover (I think) and FBI agent shows up on the scene on behalf of Homeland Security.According to the jacket, this was originally a sixteen chapter serial story published in The New York Times Magazine and reformatted for video book-like storytelling.
Writing was clear but bland lacking details that build richness of character.
When I looked up the history of the book, wikipedia noted that some reviewers state it lacked the depth of his other stories.
Among them Harry Bosch with a new partner that just wants to solve a the murder that starts of the whole story.
It is a really well written chapter in the book and great is my relief to see the main characters being disgusted about what happened.The book is a great mystery and at the same time a big complaint about politics of fear that rules over common sense.
And in this book as always the common sense is Harry Bosch.Another great one by the Connelly bard of great US thriller/mystery writing.
I'm a big Bosch fan and I always enjoy reading about him but I am a little disappointed in this book.
As one might expect with a serial novel, many chapters are disjointed and Connelly does not focus on character development.
Rachel Walling is again back in Bosch's life and while Connelly mentions the relationship, he doesn't do much to develop the relationship and/or play off the tension created when the two are again pitted on opposite bureaucratic sides (Feds vs.
Hardcore Connelly fans will enjoy another Bosch novel but don't expect the rich character development and plots that we've come to expect from him.
His partner Ignacio (call me Iggy) Ferras is younger than Bosch, and their partnership is not going very smoothly.
Bosch and Iggy (I don't care that Bosch doesn't like the guy's nickname, he was being an ass by refusing to use it) are called to a homicide where a Doctor Stanley Kent is found with some bullets to the head.
I know Bosch isn't dead (hello other books in the series) but it leaves things on a fraught note with him maybe getting in trouble due to being around some of the radioactive material.
The Overlook is a much shorter Harry Bosch novel than the others I have read, in fact it felt a bit like a novella and it missed some of the characterisation we are used to from Michael Connelly.
It could perhaps be said that once again Bosch ties everything up too neatly, and that once again career ending mistakes end up being washed away however this is fiction and I read these books to see Bosch behaving like this and to see him come out on top and so I am not going to complain.
Harry back with the LAPD and a new partner.Harry and his partner get called to a homicide on the Overlook at Mulholland Drive.
Turns out that this is not just a homicide but could also be terrorist related.
The FBI have suspects but wont let Harry interview them.
Harry is more than a little bit annoyed at the FBI but conversely the FBI are just as p'ed off at Harry.If the animosity that exists between the LAPD and the FBI in the book is a reflection of real life it's a miracle that any crimes ever get solved.It's good to see Harry back where he belongs.This is a short, easy and entertaining read with enough twists and turns to keep you turning pages.
Bosch is at his irascible best, hunting for murders of a nuclear scientist. Add in Homeland Security, the FBI, including former love interest Rachel, and possibly evil Arab terrorists, and it's a fun ride.
Butbefore Bosch can take charge, he is confronted by FBI Special Agent Rachel Walling of the Tactical Intelligence Unit, an old flame, who is less interested in a homicide than the potential for radioactive caesium to have fallen into the hands of a terrorist group.At the victim’s house the wife is found naked and trussed up on the bed, obviously distraught, the situation not helped by the arrival of Walling’s partner, Brenner, and Bosch fights to keep some control over the case…and some elements of the wife's story doesn't sit right with him.This is classic Hieronyous Bosch standing up to the FBI.
At times in The Overlook, I actually start to find Harry's deliberate obtuseness annoying and wonder if even Connelly is getting a bit bored with him, but then, as always, he cracks the case wide open and his stubborn refusal to play with others becomes a side issue as he closes in on the killer.What started as the sort of book that made me wonder if Bosch had run his course for me ended in a good 4 star rating.
Harry Bosch is called out on his first case since being recruited to the Homicide Special Squad.
Harry and his new partner Ignacio Ferras are just starting to put the pieces of the murder together when FBI Agent Rachel Walling shows up.
She wants information about the murder, but doesn't want to give up anything in return.
As Harry fights to keep jurisdiction over the murder, he discovers this routine investigation has spiraled into an incident that may cost hundreds of lives.This is a fast paced story and a good installment in the Harry Bosch series.
The 13th book in the Harry Bosch series.Another great page turner that keeps you gripped to the very end.This book was slightly different to the usual Michael Connelly recipe but this fast paced action packed novel certainly hits the spot. A little shorter than usual but nevertheless outstanding. Bring on number 14.
A quick read but not my favourite Bosch - too short and the closest I’ve come to guessing the outcome of a Bosch book. Read from other reviews on here that it is adapted from a short story and it does feel like that. Onwards to the next one and hopefully a return to form....
Three and a half stars.I like the Harry Bosch books.
About once a year I'll read one or two of the Bosch novels.
Anyway when I picked it up at the sale I was surprised to see how thin it was in comparison to past Bosch novels.
I actually enjoyed seeing Harry pull it off in his own unique style and it was refreshing.
In  The Overlook he has to figure out what happened before things blow up in L.A. It's a near combat situation and he has to ramp it up a bit.Harry Bosch has been around for a long time.
I can't believe Connelly wrote this book. Bosch asks "what is a person of interest." That's just one of a dozen annoying instances where Bosch is clueless as to what's going on. Then his antagonism with the FBI is childish. He, of course, turns out to be right and the FBI wrong. This is just not up to Connelly's usual great writing. I really do suspect it was ghosted.
Fabulous read! The details and possible ramifications of the case were fascinating. For the first third or so of the book, it wasn't a frantic read for me and I was able to sit back and enjoy Connelly's highly readable style and expert plotting. Then it became frantic.
While bumming around Chicago-saw a church book sale. SWEET!!!!!! Huge bag of goodies for $20-actually 16, but it is a church-so donated the change. I even bought a vintage Russian novel-though I cannot read it-i so adore the dust cover art, and the color plates of the story.
While being the 13th book to feature Harry Bosch, THE OVERLOOK is a great way to introduce new readers to the series long running character.
He’s got a new partner and a new case which looks very LA Noire on the surface, yet looks can be deceiving.An execution style murder on the Mulholland overlook becomes much more when a link with a radioactive chemical is established and a plot involving terrorists emerges.
I will source more books in the Harry Bosch series – if THE OVERLOOK is anything to go by, Bosch is one interesting character with many interesting cases under his belt.
However, he is being bounced to different departments in the district every time I pick up the next Bosch novel.
It makes him seem less special, less of a team player, a trouble maker, less stable, less of a hero.
I focus more on the crime now than I do on the relationships I've developed with the characters and the relationships Bosch has between old and new partners, not to mention supervisors and chiefs.
The passion for the next novel of Bosch is waning and I know I have quite a few more to get through.
6/10Possibly the weakest Bosch I've read to date, easily in the worst 3.
The reason for this is twofold; it's a short novel coming in about half as long as his others and doesn't let Bosch get his teeth sunk into the case.
Bosch is best at plain old murder.
There are flaws in this novel and it didn't grab me like a normal Bosch novel would but it's still got some good parts and recurring characters cropping up adding to the wider feel to this series.
Pretty typical, yet a whole new interesting story.
Well written & read.
Note that I list this as 17th in the Harry Bosch Universe, not the 15th as listed below.
Next up are 3 short stories.
I've found they're important to read in order, if possible.16 - Echo Park (Harry Bosch #12), 200617 - The Overlook (Harry Bosch #13), 200717.4 - Father’s Day (2007) in Angle of Investigation (2011) (HB's first investigation?)17.5 - Suicide Run(2007) in Suicide Run, 201117.6 - One Dollar Jackpot(2007) in Suicide Run, 201118 - The Brass Verdict (Harry Bosch #14, also Mickey Haller #2), 2008
The book read like someone held a gun to Connelly's head and demanded triple-time story development and resolution.I don't know why Connelly even gave Bosch a LAPD partner but I guess LAPD protocol required it.
Iggy, the partner in this book, was a new one and essentially ignored - Bosch generally had him running errands, offscreen as it were.
When he was in the action with Bosch, Iggy generally disapproved of Harry's methods.
I wonder if he will be around next book?My complaints are with the rushed feeling of the story - not Connelly's writing, which was excellent as usual: even at triple-time pacing!
Connelly is a master of misdirection in this thrilling mystery where nothing can be taken at face value. Bosch is called out to a murder scene and the FBI quickly becomes involved when terrorists are suspected of stealing cesium to mount an attack. There are a lot of lies and backstabbing between Bosch and the FBI but Bosch ultimately solves the murder. Extremely well-written!
Harry Bosch is called to the scene of a murder on the "Overlook" a high location in LA which offers stunning views of the city of angels.
As a maverick investigator he views with suspicion the actions of others and questions why not only the FBI but Homeland Security should "muscle" in on his turf!
Once the FBI and Homeland Security takes charge of this possible major chemical contamination, Harry is always playing catch up.
There are some great secondary characters; Harry's new partner Ignacio (Iggy) Ferras who Harry refuses to call by his preferred name..."See you there, Ignacio Bosch said.
The book featured a new partner who seemed to just be Bosch's opposite in every way, and a sort of love interest that had no particular defining characteristics.
Perhaps I'd have found some of them more interesting if I'd read so of the others, but they definitely didn't do anything to motivate me to do so.I would certainly be willing to read another of the series if I was presented one, but I'm not sure I'd go too far out of the way to do so.
Things soon take a disturbing turn when it is revealed that the victim had access to radioactive materials and that the motive may be terror related.
As Bosch and FBI agent Rachel Walling race against time to locate the killers and the missing Cesium, they will have to trust their instincts and each other to uncover the truth.
Harry's interactions with the FBI in general, and Rachel Walling in particular, is very realistic.
The inclusion of Rachel Walling is another highlight of the story.
Writing female characters and romance are not Connelly's forte, but he is on the right path with the intriguing dynamics between Harry and Rachel.
Another fine audiobook featuring Harry Bosch.
I really like them in spite of disliking the main character.
He's arrogant and can be a real SOB, almost impossible to work with.
As an example, he refuses to call his partner Iggy, even though asked often to do so by Ignasio, who much prefers Iggy.
Now why would you not call someone by the name they prefer?This one is relatively short involving the theft of Cesium, ostensibly by terrorists to create a dirty bomb.
The FBI and the LAPD's terrorism squad all get mixed up, but, as usual, only Bosch can see the truth.
