https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20701984-el-deafo
Middle grade/young adult graphic novel.
In comic book form, Cece Bell tells the story of a young girl (rabbit?) growing up with a severe hearing impairment.
She does a great job tackling the subject with humor and pathos, letting us see the world through the narrator's eyes (and hear through her super Phonic Ear).
Along the way, we meet pushy friends, clueless peers, helpful teachers, not-so-helpful siblings, and a whole cast of other characters that any kid can relate to.
A great novel for raising awareness and promoting understanding, because not everyone hears the world the same way, whether we have a super-powerful Phonic Ear or not!
This was so great! I didn't realize before reading it that it's semi autobiographical, which was a nice surprise. I really enjoyed getting a personal account of what Cece went through and how she felt growing up deaf. I highly recommend this book, to people of all ages!
My heart is so happy. This was absolutely adorable. And so informative!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This is the autobiographical story of Cece Bell and her experiences of going to school as the only deaf kid in the class. From her own insecurities to people treating her different, Cece found a coping mechanism in the form of “El Deafo” a superhero with nerves of steel who Cece imagined saying and doing everything she only wished she was brave enough to . . . . This is a great book for youngsters. Aside from pointing out the obvious f
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This is the autobiographical story of Cece Bell and her experiences of going to school as the only deaf kid in the class.
Aside from pointing out the obvious fact that people are people and shouldn’t be treated different just because they aren’t an exact copy of everyone else, it also did a great job of explaining (in kid terms) exactly how it might make the person who is being treated differently feel.
My 3 Star rating is the lowest amongst my friends, which is totally legit since I’m easily the biggest jerk in the group of those who have read it.
“Our differences are our superpowers.”Starting and ending the day with a good read will never grow tired on me. Starting at a new school is scary, even more so with a giant hearing aid strapped to your chest! At her old school, everyone in Cece's class was deaf. Here she is different. She is sure the kids are staring at the Phonic Ear, the powerful aid that will help her hear her teacher. Too bad it also seems certain to repel potential friends.This funny perceptive graphic novel memoir about gr
Too bad it also seems certain to repel potential friends.This funny perceptive graphic novel memoir about growing up hearing impaired is also an unforgettable book about growing up, and all the super and super embarrassing moments along the way.
El Deafo is filled with all the upheavals and self-questioning of Cece Bell's early childhood, from experiencing crushes, pushy "best friends" and loneliness, to making many discoveries about lip-reading, including how it can create many awkward misread situations.
This year I was provided with the newest brands and they have lots of applications, like background noises muting and "hooking" to the cinema's sound or the computer.A funny detail: if I try to put one of my little machines on the other side, I hear nothing.
Thank God now the company lends you a similar one with your “map” to substitute yours until it comes back to you.About the “Phonic Ear” Cece takes to school for teachers to wear in order to hear them, it’s totally different in my case.
Amazing! Highly recommend to anyone. Great ownvoices deafness representation. Loved how childhood friendships were portrayed. I think any kid would get a lot out of this story (and adults too!), be it identifying with Cece's story, or relating to feelings of being different, or understanding their peers.
Phonic Ear to the rescue!Cece's Phonic Ear hearing aid gives her superpowers, but it also makes her feel alienated and different, not the easiest things to juggle while trying to make friends...and growing up.
I secretly, and openly, believed that my deafness, in making me so different, was a disability.
I'm no longer ashamed of being deaf, nor do I think of myself as someone with a disability...To the kid me, being deaf was a defining characteristic, one I tried to hide.
Now it defines a smaller part of me, and I don't try to hide it-much.
3 I liked it stars ***Reading level 8-12 years but all ages can enjoy***After a sudden illness strikes Cece when she is four, she finds herself hearing impaired after recovering.
This book also promotes awareness and understanding for people with disabilities, mostly it points out that just because Cece cannot hear doesn’t mean she feels different things than other people.
So reading this book reminded me quite a bit of the stories my grandmother told me about being deaf as a little girl.
Cece Bell uses the graphic novel format to tell her own story of hearing loss and the imagination of a child going through it.
I thought it was fantastic, presenting real issues like how friendships change, the balancing of the best technology with the most comfortable technology, resistance to learning ASL, etc.
Some of my favorite moments were just in the artistic representations, particularly a few pages on the trampoline.
That's when I discovered this was a memoir (up until then I thought it was just a story), and found this article about how it empowers kids.
El Deafo is a semi-autobiographical graphic novel by author Cece Bell.
She must use a hearing aid, but sometimes the words she hears are garbled and she must rely on visual clues and lip reading to clearly understand.
She gets a new hearing aid that is much stronger called "The Phonic Ear." The teacher wears a microphone around her neck so that Cece can hear her voice more clearly.
Speaking more slowly makes it more difficult for her to read lips when she's wearing her at-home hearing aids.
Each deaf person's situation is different and how he/she chooses to communicate is a personal choice.
It is a very realistic portrayal of her own elementary school experiences: her illness and hearing impairment, moving, adjusting to a new school, a giant hearing aid, trying to make friends, and the many different reactions to her deafness.
A wonderful story about growing up and learning the strengths in our differences.
She absolutely devoured this book, reading it constantly until she finished.
I heard her chuckle quite a few times but I also overheard her explaining the book to her grandfather in detail and she mentioned the difficulties she observed in the story.
This book has a great message for all ages.
The result, El Deafo, is a remarkable look at a great grand question (What to do when you can no longer hear and feel different from everyone you know?) alongside a smaller one that every kid will relate to (How do you find a good friend?).
At the same time the book’s heart lies with a single quest: That of finding the absolute perfect friend.The rise of the graphic novel memoir of a cartoonist’s youth with a child audience in mind really hit its stride when Raina Telgemeier wrote, Smile.
7/21/17 Reread for my summer YA Graphic novels class, the memoir of a girl who has lost much of her hearing, gets bullied for it, but transforms her sense of herself by thinking of herself as a superhero, El Deafo!
Great for any kids who are being bullied for being different.
From the time I first read this three years ago and now, this has become a staple in American elementary and middle schools, yay!9/13/14 Bell's memoir about her hearing impairment, brought on by meningitis when she was 4 years old.
And also (in 4th and 5th grade) she likes a boy, so there's stuff about that and school generally.
The premise is simple: Cece sustains illness-induced hearing loss at a very young age, and both she and the reader must puzzle their way through a newly tricky world.I liked two things especially about this story.
It makes lip-reading a huge pain, and your words sound really weird.Cece doesn't speak up about these things until very late in the story.
To be fair, she should have been told, by the same people who helped her figure out her hearing aid and taught her lip-reading, that she'll need to educate her friends.
(Its target audience is probably 2nd through 5th graders, so much of the message--of tolerance and acceptance of those who are different than us--was probably lost on her.) This aborted experiment was not a total failure though: before her attention started waning, she laughed a lot at the Super Hero-ic El Deafo (i.e. Ms. Bell) and her efforts to fit in; I was quite impressed at the non-preachy and universally accessible message.
This graphic novel is about how she learns to deal with other people and their reactions to 'the deaf girl.'Wow, sounds pretty lame and after-school-special, right?
A superhero named "El Deafo." And with her superpowers, she can handle any problem that comes her way!I was laughing and enjoying this funny book.Best part: A kid in her class asks Cece "Are you death?" LOL So funny.
And exactly the kind of mistake a kid would make, changing 'deaf' for 'death!' LOL And then Cece, in her mind - using her El Deafo persona, says, "Yes, I'm Death!
She is quickly fitted with hearing aids which, combined with lipreading, help her understand what people are saying -- so long as she can see their mouths, or they're not cartoons on TV, making nonsense shapes instead of words.
Thanks to the Phonic Ear, which has a microphone that allows teachers' words to travel directly to Cece's ears, she's mainstreamed in school.
She does well, but suffers insecurity due to the obvious cords from her hearing aid.
It captures both the general troubles and foibles of navigating elementary school and friendship and the specific problems Cece encounters due to her difference from other people.
CeCe Bell's graphic novel memoir is a standout, both as an exemplar for the form and for its message. While I knew that CeCe has hearing loss, I enjoyed getting to know CeCe better through this story. I think many children will relate to her struggles to form meaningful, healthy friendships and her journey toward self-acceptance.
This memoir about a young girl who lost her hearing as a child and learning to navigate her new life, was heart-warming and educational. I recommend this for all ages. You'll learn so much about how to interact with someone with hearing difficulties and see a little in their eyes.
El Deafo is one of the best graphic novels I've read, about Cece Bell growing up with a severe hearing impairment in the 80s after becoming ill. El Deafo is beautifully illustrated and the story is fantastic. Cece shows us what it's like to not only be unable to hear what's being said but understand what's being said. From the difficulties of making friends – especially best friends – to discovering the amazing Phonic Ear, this is a remarkable story about growing up. Cece now has superpowers: El Deafo, Listener for All!I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books.
It’s a very colorful and cute book.
But the story told through this cuteness is not so cute actually!
It’s an autobiography of the writer who accidentally loses her hearing ability at the age of four.
She started to learn sign language and tried to keep her distance from people full of negativity.
Maybe it’s because the writer has presented her writing in such a funny way that for me, the real depth of her story got lost somewhere.
Well, I was expecting something like  Wonder actually!
So it turned out to be just a regular children book for me!
Until she was four, Cece had "normal" hearing.
And then a bout of meningitis left her deaf, needing a hearing aid to understand the world around her.
In her comic book memoir, Cece writes mainly about the obstacles she faced in making friends in a hearing world.
Cece's writing is perfect for what she's accomplishing.
This will definitely reach Cece's intended audience in the way that she intended.I also have to mention that the art is super cute.
Everybody is bunnies.
Because bunnies are adorable, that's why.
Why shouldn't they be bunnies?
Great book. Such a fun memoir to read. This is an honest telling of what it is to be raised hearing impaired. Fun little stories and fun art and the telling is simple and honest. El Deafo jumps off the page. I get why this was considered for the Newberry and got an Honor. I think anyone can enjoy this book and enrich your life. So glad I gave this book a go.
Just as good as everyone raving about it has said.
The world is doing such a good job of pushing this book.
Way to work it.
I grew up closely adjacent to the deaf community.
My mom worked as an interpreter, her best friend was deaf, we went to deaf movie night at the community center.
Bell is fairly close in age to close friends of our family who traveled similar paths.
It's so great to see an authentic book packaged and marketed in such a smart way.I just really really hope that the kids are finding it, reading it, loving it.
Because stories like this need to be read more often.
Bell's memoir focuses on ages 4-14 or so, starting pretty much with the illness which deafened her and ending with her finally feeling accepted by her peers. It is amazing, and you should read it right away. Natasha and I are in complete agreement on this.And if you haven't already, follow it up by reading Smile by Raina Telgemeier and Stitches by David Small, two more amazing memoirs told through graphic novel format.Library copy.
After I was finished with what I was doing, I asked the co-worker if he'd been able to help our fellow colleague and he sniped a bit, finishing his rant with, "It's like she doesn't even listen."I went over to my desk, grabbed my scissors, and returned to him intent on stabbing his entire face off.(in my mind)I wish this book would have been available back then because I would have pointedly left it on his desk with a note explaining that perhaps he could learn some compassion for others through reading.
This story threw me back into my own childhood and, somehow, that made the entire story so relatable.
This was such a sweet middle grade semi-memoir style graphic novel that features a little girl who loses her hearing due to illness prior to Kindergarten and how she goes forward forming friendships and dealing with being "different".
Children are so dang honest and watching CeCe's internal and external reactions to their comments, her self-conscious reactions, and social anxiety form and get tackled was beautiful.
I can't imagine how important a graphic novel like this is to both hearing and non-hearing children as they navigate a world where they're being introduced to people who are different than they are in so many ways.
Although her world is unquestionably silent, Cece isn't embittered by her condition because it has its own perks: everyone is extra special to her.Then she gets a hearing aid and while she can make out sounds, it's still hard for her to understand which creates quite the rift between her and her best friend.
She has a new device!She might not be able to hear and she might be different from others but along the way, Cece discovers that it can actually be a gift.
