https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19003.The_Little_Drummer_Girl
”What would it be like really and absolutely to believe? (...) To know, really and absolutely know, that there's a Divine Being not set in time or space who reads your thoughts better than you ever did, and probably before you even have them? To believe that God sends you to war, God bends the path of bullets, decides which of his children will die, or have their legs blown off, or make a few hundred million on Wall Street, depending on today's Grand Design?” Joseph proved to be more than just a
Joseph proved to be more than just a fan with flowers.Charlie is an English actress who has been reasonably successful on the stage and is one good role away from becoming an established actress when she meets a man on a beach in Greece.
Joseph is an Israeli spy and his job is to reel Charlie in for his boss Martin Kurtz.
Notorious with Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant.The relationship between Joseph and Charlie reminded me strongly of the Alfred Hitchcock movie from 1946…Notorious...which is one of my favorite Hitchcock films.
We came up with you and that’s why you’re here…”-	Martin Kurtz, in John Le Carré’s The Little Drummer Girl The spy novel is a very particular genre with a very particular audience.
Thankfully, John Le Carré’s The Little Drummer Girl is far more than a spy novel.
Kurtz, of course, is unforgettable, but it is Charlie that must bear The Little Drummer Girl’s moral weight.
In one sequence, Charlie goes to a refugee camp to train: There is a terrible, yet pastoral peace that comes from living for a long time among the world’s real victims.
DNF!I read enough to squirm noticeably and VERY uncomfortably in my bus seat, and discarded it (I’ll give it the four stars it surely merits, though...)!If existential burrowing into human psychology was to be my next big reading escape from reality, it was not the last.
But bestselling suspense novels were now on hold.Political thrillers, like THIS one, had now,that day, become the Nazi dentist in Marathon Man, drilling right into my nerve.
HOUNDED!I felt cornered.And isn’t this the same for us ALL, even if our job is not like mine was?
I was a le Carre fan coming in, but this book's explorations of identity and morality blew my mind while simultaneously blowing up lots of other stuff.
It's complex as hell; the identity stuff is on a PK Dick level, but goes there without drugs.
The morality issue may be closer to common, as we are given Palestinians and Zionists and why they are who they are, but le Carre never overtly politicizes.
Part of the point here is the complexity of the politics, but a greater point is how it affects people.
And that's what this story comes down to: people.
The basic scenario in the book is that Mossad are concerned about a successful series of bombings carried out against Israeli targets by a Palestinian terrorist group.
There are two scenes near the beginning that I quite often think of.In the first, the Mossad agent who later becomes Charlie's controller is making the initial approach.
You just have to think that the wine's making you want to fuck."I've never been able to watch a drink commercial the same way since.The second scene isn't as amusing.
He tells her a story from 1948, where Israeli tanks were used to destroy a Palestinian village.
John le Carrè’s The Little Drummer Girl is much more than a spy novel.
But it’s the genius and complexity of the relationship that raises The Little Drummer Girl to heights far above the limits of the spy genre.
Meet Joseph: battle-scarred Israeli hero and “all that a girl adrift could wish for in her savior.” He’s an enigma, a conjuror, both warrior and poet.
Standing in for Michel, he manipulates Charlie, even as he’s drawn to her.
The Little Drummer Girl deserves a wider audience.
If any of them too pissed off George Will, then so much the better.A few quotes and bits of business, typed out in the spirit of learning-by-doing, for the Aspiring Novelist’s/Working Writer’s Toolkit:All Americans unsettled him; and most scared him, either by their knowledge or their ignorance, or both.He had the answers children long for.…deep down, like most rebels, she was only looking for a better conformity."Do you think we do not understand that your politics are the externalisation of a search for dimensions and responses not supplied to you when you most needed them?”…she herself, that tiny gyroscopic creature deep inside that always managed to stay upright, tiptoed gratefully to the wings to watch.“You’ve read Frantz Fanon.
With time, just by holding it in focus, you find yourself remembering what a fatuous thing a car really is without man to give it meaning.
In this story LeCarre takes us on a trip into the schizophrenic world of creating legends and running spies. It was set during the early 1980's when terrorist bombings had become common place in Europe. And there were characters in this story that reminded me of the BaderMinehoff(sp?) Group. Even though some of the elements in this story are dated, it is still a powerful novel.And after a spate of reading not so great Le Carre novels, this one was very refreshing.
What happens when a woman loves two righteous men?
Two feuding nations?
A woman who is struggling with both her inner and outer world; her inner and outer dialogue.
''The Little Drummer Girl'' is the second best spy novel I've ever read, but I NEVER give first prizes.
Charlie is a woman who incubates in the womb of her mind the warring ideals and pitiful trails of two imperfect people(s).
I love William F.
Buckley's take:''The Little Drummer Girl'' is about spies as ''Madame Bovary'' is about adultery or ''Crime and Punishment'' about crime.
But a working holiday soon becomes a journey of discovery when she encounters a mysterious stranger on the beach.While Kurtz makes inroads into the network responsible for the bombing in Germany, the tangled threads of the stories weave their way together until Charlie finds herself at the centre of Kurtz's international espionage operation.Episode 1 of 6A fiery and brilliant actress is drawn into a dangerous international espionage operation.Episode 2 of 6Charlie is recruited with the promise of the role of a lifetime to infiltrate a dangerous revolutionary cell.
One of his best novels and his female main protagonist is brilliantly realised.
In awe of the writing craft displayed in this novel.
Le Carre's skill at weaving backstory with a love story with a gripping political thriller is unique.
Every time I read him I'm reminded again that he is a real novelist.
Basically, the great joy of le Carre, in all his novels, is the meticulous build up with superb characterisation and brilliantly written scenes.
For me this is literary fiction at its very best with a thriller element.
His writing is superb and reading him is to engage with ideas on so many levels.
Another LeCarre masterpiece, in my judgment, right up there with the best of the Smiley/Circus series.
Given the broad spectrum of characters here (from Israeli intelligence agents to young members of the '70s counterculture to Arab guerrillas to European Marxist revolutionaries -- all of whom are worlds apart from Smiley's British "espiocrats"), I predict that this will go down as LeCarre's most ambitious project.
Also, LeCarre somehow manages to create truly chilling scenes that take place in the sunny and warm settings of Greece and Lebanon.
And then there's Charlie, as clever as George Smiley and as courageous as Alec Leamas...this is her story, and I think you should read it.
Your courage will be like money.
You will spend and spend, and one night you will look in your pockets and you'll be bankrupt and that is when the real courage begins.This book is possibly the most complex le Carré novel I've read to date.
Gadi Becker (affectionately dubbed "Joseph" by Charlie) is sent to bring her in, despite the fact that three Israeli wars have burned him out and made him doubt his country.
If you have any interest in what real spycraft is like, and if you only have the patience for one spy book, this should be it.
A young actress, Charlie, is recruited by an Israeli spymaster, Martin Kurtz, to try to locate a Palestinian terrorist by the name of Kahlil, who zeroes in on Jewish targets, mostly in Germany.
Internal conflicts arise for Charlie, whose character is probably loosely based upon Vanessa Redgrave, because she is an anti-Zionist working for Israelis.
As the plot spirals inward, the pressures on Charlie consistently increase.This is the least favorite of LeCarre's novels that I have read.
I had a hard time connecting with the character of Charlie.
The Little Drummer Girl is a page-turning story of love and loyalty set against the backdrop of the Middle East conflict, and I found it significantly different in tone and composition to the George Smiley series, and his other spy novels generally, which I am more familiar with.
With Le Carre’s always impeccable detail to plot structure, characterisation, location, and social and political mores of this particular point in history, the book manages to balance a sense of menace and claustrophobia with a convoluted love story that ties into the themes of loss and betrayal, with an immensely powerful denouement.
I do not want to rate this book because I've given up on reading it and I know this author is greatly admired and read all over the world. I just could not get into the book and am moving on.
If I'm going to put this much effort in, I'd re-read "I'd like you to know that tomorrow we will be killed with our families", which was incredibly important, yet a much better read; and that was NOT a fiction.
If I'm going to actually put an effort into reading a Genocide, War, or Terrorism published novel, please wake me up in the morning so freaking mad I want to join the peace corps.
Again, I'll have to let you know, after a few weeks, I'm only about 3/4 through.
I have piles of books next to the bed since I read so much.
As we move, I'm going to try to move to strictly electronic books.
but interesting and fairly even-handed treatment of palestine and the occupying nazi..oops, east german...opps dang it, israel, and their battles both on 'battle fields' and on innocents.so this thriller told mostly from a mossad side, infiltrating terror bombing family and setting up a big sting.
palestinians still in refugee camps or embattled in their more permanent settlements, israel still on war stance, even expanding their geography and trying to keep safe, terrorists still waging war on all fronts, and seemingly no dialog or solutions.so interesting book for geopolitical lessons served in a bitter spoon of inhumanity and thrill where reader can compare happenings for 30 years or so.
Astonishing. It literally starts with a bang (Palestinian terrorists set off a bomb in Germany), but then Le Carre takes his wonderful sweet time setting up the plot. The recruitment and training of a young British actress by Israeli counterintelligence takes up two-thirds of the book. Her actual mission kept me on the edge of my seat for the final wrenching 150 pages. This 1983 book was Le Carre's first to leave Smiley behind and not center around British intelligence, and it's far and away one of his best.
His best, and for me that's saying a lot. Intricate, atmospheric, penetrating and going to a gripping climax. The love interest in The Night Manager is less manipulative, and I like that book better as a romp, but Drummer Girl is exceptional in its politics and its Shakespearian psychology.
L'ossessione per i dettagli nel costruire i personaggi sembra dare rigide indicazioni anche ai direttori del casting poiché LeCarré si sofferma sulle più incredibili minuzie per conferire ai personaggi dei suoi libri una verosimiglianza che mi capita di rado di trovare nei libri.
L'aspetto romantico dei suoi libri sta nel parlare di violenza e sopraffazione tra stati e individui facendola avvenire quasi sempre fuori dalla scena, quando il lavoro del bravo ufficiale dell'intelligence è finito, quasi a significare che a menar le mani sono buoni tutti mentre pensare a come farlo per garantire il successo è un lavoro per pochi eletti la cui esistenza è avventurosa in senso non convenzionale.
Le Carre does a good job in developing the character of Charlie, a cut-rate actress with radical left leanings suffering from low self-esteem, who is recruited as a mole to ferret out a terrorist bomber.
The Mossad operatives are also well portrayed as cold and vengeful.Events in the story are disturbingly realistic showing the ruthlessness required for the counter-terrorist game.
The author spent a lot of time researching this book in Lebanon and other places in the Mid-East, and clearly shows sympathies to the Palestinian plight.
Not recommended for those readers only interested in thrills and action, which is general advice for all of Le Carre's works.
This one was a bit of a battle.
I had such high expectations, Le Carre is said to be 'the master' in the realm of spy novels, but I guess I have different criteria, because I was confused and bored most of the time, and indifferent during the last third.
Maybe this just wasn't the right book to start with, but I wanted a newer one...so, possibly my fault.
The plot was somewhat clever, but not good enough to make me seek out another by the author in the near future.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
In his genre he's hard to beat. So if you want to read a suspenseful spy thriller and are willing to put in some effort (a bit slow and thorough storytelling and often complicated (sub)plots) then you can't go wrong with this one.
solo se puede decir una palabra: novelaza¡¡¡¡¡la novela se centra en el conflicto palestina-israel, con sus espias, sus ataques terroristas... y quienes creen que son de los suyos igual no lo son tanto.Charlie es una actriz de segunda que le interesa en el tema de palestina, pero se vera envuelta en un guerra en la que no quería intervenir.interpretara el papel de su vida en un teatro de lo irreal.
Yes, it's a slow burner, but all his best ones are.
The question is whether or not it builds the slow burn to an intense heat (ref The Honourable Schoolboy) or just smoulders away to a damp fizzle (ref Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy).
I think the first piece of advice I would offer is not to think of any of Le Carre's books as "thrillers".
But even if you make that step, there is an argument that Le Carre's characters, far from offering insightful portrayals, remain murky and unclear.
Some say his female characters are often two-dimensional - to readers of that camp, how did you find Charlie?
You expect a certain amount of sexism in a John le Carre novel.
Rightly or wrongly, it's usually the kind that you can dismiss by saying, that was just what it was like back then.
This is not that kind of novel.
Or the fun little jab at feminism: "The only news items she followed with any loyalty concerned a female giant panda at London Zoo who was declining to mate, though feminists insisted it was the male’s fault."le Carre is so good at describing the psyche of male cold war spies, but his descriptions of his female lead are unconvincing and patronizing
This was my first time to read John le Carre.
But if I never pick up the Smiley novels, at least I read "Little Drummer Girl." A young woman delivers a suitcase bomb to the home of an Israeli diplomat in Bonn, Germany, an act of Palestinian terrorism that sets in motion an elaborate Israeli plot to recruit a double-agent who will infiltrate PLO ranks and settle the score.I would give this book 5 stars, except that the first 50-100 pages could have been trimmed.
Le Carre later apparently admitted as much.
The Alexis character, so prominent at the outset, has no real bearing on the plot.
Description: John le Carre's classic novels deftly navigate readers through the intricate shadow worlds of international espionage with unsurpassed skill and knowledge, and have earned him unprecedented worldwide acclaim.In this thrilling and thought-provoking novel of Middle Eastern intrigue, Charlie, a brilliant and beautiful young English actress, is lured into "the theatre of the real" by an Israeli intelligence officer. Forced to play her ultimate role, she is plunged into a deceptive and delicate trap set to ensnare an elusive Palestinian terrorist.
I was loving LeCarre.
He was batting .1000 as far as I was concerned and then I hit this one.
I'm getting older and I'll never be able to read all the books I'm going to want to read before I die and I think slogging through 50% of a book to get to the good isn't fair to the reader.
That's half of the book wasted when it could have been 100% awesome.
Kind of bummed...but he's written enough good books that it doesn't really matter so much.
Every author gets a few gimmees.
