https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282445.The_Dehumanization_of_Art_and_Other_Essays_on_Art_Culture_and_Literature
In my judgment, the characteristic feature of new art “from the sociological point of view” is that it divides the public into two categories: those that understand it, and those that don’t. The more I read of José Ortega y Gasset, the more I discover that he was one of the most complete intellectuals of the previous century. During his prolific career he made contributions to political theory, to philosophy, to literary criticism, and now I see to art criticism.In the title essay of this colle
During his prolific career he made contributions to political theory, to philosophy, to literary criticism, and now I see to art criticism.In the title essay of this collection, Ortega sets out to explain and defend the “new art.” He was writing at the high point of modernism, when the artists of the Generation of ’27 in Spain—a cadre that included Dalí, Buñuel, and Lorca—were embarking on new stylistic experiments.
It is an art for artists, and appeals only to our pure aesthetic sense.As usual, Ortega is bursting with intriguing ideas that are not fully developed.
What about, instead of trying to paint the person, aiming to paint our abstraction or our idea of a person?, then, in his words:"el cuadro, renunciando a emular la realidad, se convertiría en lo que auténticamente es: un cuadro, una irrealidad".my translation: "the picture, renouncing to emulate reality, will become what it genuinely is: a picture, a non-reality."And, according to Ortega, art and artistic (and historic) ages, can be understood as we see the relation between the artists and their intentions, -which, in modern art (for him, early XX century), has undergone a switch in focus, and it's now bent over itself, art is the content of art, the goal of art, and thus, it's dehumanized.This quote towards the end, explains the core of the essay:La aspiración al arte puro no es, como suele creerse, una soberbia, sino, por el contrario, gran modestia.
Un libro que es una tela de araña, si se toma y saca lo substancial de él, es bien poco. Una constante en muchos filósofos. No comparto casi nada de lo que propone el autor. Imagino que para la persona que ha leído más sobre estética o historia del arte le puede ser útil. No creo que vuelva a Ortega y Gasset por mucho tiempo (quizás nunca).
That I which is you, my dear friend, does not consist in your body, nor yet in your soul, your consciousness, or your character.
You are the person who has to live with them, by means of them, and perhaps you spend your life protesting against the soul with which you were endowed -- of its lack of will, for example -- as you protest against your bad stomach or of the cold climate of your country.
We must learn to free ourselves from the traditional idea which would have reality always consist in some thing, be it physical or mental.
José Ortega y Gasset provides quite a good overview of the paradigm shift that happened with the beginning of self-consciously modern art (in different media) in the mid-19th century and onwards.
(at least among my generation)That's also kind of the title essay's downfall, though, and you can see it in the title: Though the author by his own confession attempts to stay neutral and descriptive rather than prescriptive, the general tone of the writing remains almost ridiculously conservative.
"A Falsa Igualdade entre os HomensDebaixo de toda a vida contemporânea encontra-se latente uma injustiça profunda e irritante: a falsa suposição da igualdade real entre os homens. Cada passo que damos entre eles mostra-nos tão evidentemente o contrário que cada caso é um tropeção doloroso".
If you think Ortega y Gasset's notion of humanization more as the episteme of constructing, generating and understanding any form of human sentiment and activity in our "reality", this essay can say something even to the 21th century readers.
I disagree with just about everything he argues in here, but it's still a very thoughtful and engaging set of essays -
Some very exciting ideas in this selection. Sadly some rather fanciful ones as well. Promises a lot more than it delivers, but Oh my! What promises!
Изображение человека сегодня, собственно отход от конкретного изображения, и попытка усмотреть все то, что не изображено.
Однако это как-то в моем плебейском сознании не соответствует реальности.
Это всегда попытка искривить изображаемого так, чтобы в нем осталось нечто субстанциональное.
Игра ради игры, ирония ради иронии - это скорее ближе к постмодернизму.
Едва ли "Петербург" это ироничная игра форм, чуждость "какой либо трансцендентности".
Отход от спекулировании на чувствах, отход от изображения живых форм, даже игра с самой идеей искусства, произведения, что подразумевает третью черту (по Ортеге: стремление к тому, чтобы произведение искусства было лишь произведением искусства) это ясно укладывается в моем голове.
Scritto nel 1925, parla di quella che allora era "arte nuova" e senza dubbio fa considerazioni che possono essere applicate anche all'arte contemporanea d'oggi.
La posizione di Ortega è ambigua nella misura in cui da un lato afferma di non voler affermare la superiorità né dell'arte contemporanea né di quella precedente, dall'altro si tradisce quando descrive la separazione tra volgo ed élite intellettuale (l'unica in grado di capire l'arte contemporanea - e non è difficile credere che lui se ne senta parte).
Ci sono senz'altro note corrette e del tutto precorritrici di quanto è poi accaduto, in particolare il carattere intrinsecamente ironico dell'arte contemporanea.
Lo que me llevó a este libro fue que Susan Sontag lo citaba en "sobre el estilo", el segundo de los ensayos de "Contra la interpretación".Algunos de los ensayos incluidos son mejores que el titular, y en general forman un conjunto interesante. No pueden aplicarse a todo el arte de vanguardia, pero hay que celebrar la confianza mostrada en la modernidad y en el formalismo.Una idea: me pareció curioso que Bazin, en "La ontología de la imagen fotográfica", llegase con la deshumanización al realismo, idea aparentemente opuesta (aunque en realidad es otro tipo de realismo).
Gasset goes over primitive art as a focus on multiple objects, and it progressively becomes a canvas of various forms held together by a unifying motif, and then it progresses further into a unification of subject and space.
Gasset discusses how the object in a painting becomes a focus.
After this Gasset discusses the trends of such in art history.In Search of Goethe from Within - A high point in the book.
Without this ability to center and become yourself, you thus become frenetic and live beside yourself, not fully unattached, but unable to be an actual person.
However, the problem with this book is the structure of the essays themselves: while Ortega y Gasset is surely a strong, convincing essayist (though sometimes just outright wrong), something about this text seems to be cursory, for it always slumps beneath the scope of its grand claims.
This is by no means a critique of Ortega y Gasset as a full philosopher and social critic, as I haven't yet read his more popular work, like "The Revolt of the Masses." I'm actually excited, based on the limited selection I've read here, to delve more fully into his work.
The title essay is a very interesting and measured analysis of the modernist and avant-garde tendency to turn its back on realism, reality and, eventually, humanity itself.
The other essays are equally interesting but are perhaps not as original; 'Notes on the Novel' struck me as being a rehash of Nietzsche's theory of drama in 'The Birth of Tragedy', albeit reframed with the then-contemporary figures of Proust and Dostoevsky as examples of the contemplative-Apollonian archetypal artist.
Ortega con estos ensayos compilados hace una inteligente exposición del arte del siglo XX, genera antagonismos y polémicas al afirmar que el arte es desarrollado por el placer de hacer arte y no por representar una época, una cultura o una historia.
Tal afirmación, se puede prestar para contradecir lo que por siempre se ha hablado: que el arte es la consecuencia de una época.
Pienso que el arte abstracto del siglo XX al que critica por haber desaparecido al hombre, de todas maneras es un reflejo de lo vivido en la época y como tal continua mostrando la realidad en base a una mentira, como diría Picasso.
It's somewhat interesting to read what a cultural commentator with a strong art history background had to say about Modern art as it was happening, but many of his conclusions feel dated and a little off, mostly because of all the time that has passed since he came to them, and all the intervening analysis of Modernism and its practitioners that informs the way we think about that art now. But Ortega y Gasset is a very strong essayist, both as a thinker and as a stylist, and this is a nice little concise collection of some of his work.
Read only the long essay, "Notes on the Novel." Written ten years after the book on Quixote, this essay is less satisfying than the earlier book's "First Meditation." It is more diffuse in its ideas and subject (contrast "notes" to "meditations," after all), and some of the claims seem unwarranted.In most cases the two essays are compatible, but he eases up on a few of the earlier claims, with more and less success. For details you'll have to read my dissertation. :)
The Dehumanization of Art is a quick and enjoyable read.The essay "In Search of Goethe from Within" shows us the poetic soul of Herr Goethe, but also the poetic side of Señor Ortega himself. Maybe it's the poetry of philosophy.Ortega notes Goethe's reaction to seeing a crayfish in a brook. "Wie wahr, wie seiend!"Yes . . .Wonderful stuff. Wonderful ideas at work. Wonderful thoughts in play. All the essays are worth reading. "In Search of Goethe from Within" is sheer delight.
Ortega y Gasset analiza el proceso de sofisticación del arte contemporáneo (a partir, sobre todo del s.XX) como una forma de "elitización". El arte se vuelve críptico, deliberadamente, para poder distinguir socialmente a "los que entienden" de los que "no entienden". El verbo, entender, es lo relevante: el Arte se aleja de la percepción en un proceso de intelectualización que lo quiere alejar de las clases populares. El Arte no "gusta", no "se disfruta", se "entiende", se deshumaniza, en fin.
I know there's only a little part in the book that's particularly on Dostoyevsky but it always amazes me whenever one pays tribute to Dostoyevsky, the way he builds his characters, and his writing style without being partial. Gasset does exactly this in his second essay, which is on novels. A deep read into how "we" managed to dehumanize art, with a rather witty approach, overall. Who's to deny the strong urge to resort to sarcasm when it comes to anything concerning humans, anyway?
En este ensayo, Ortega y Gasset hace un a análisis sociológico sobre la visión estética del arte moderno. Esta crítica poco convencional nos descubre una nueva perspectiva por la que observar el arte, ideal para todo aquel apasionado o entendido en este campo del conocimiento.
He leído este libro corriendo y por obligación... por eso no me parece justo puntuarlo, ya que estoy segura de que si lo leo en un futuro por propia voluntad, voy a disfrutarlo mucho más.
What a fine writer! Especially liked the Goethe essay, but all worth reading.
Totalmente imprescindible si se quiere llegar a comprender el arte moderno. El estilo de Gasset es sublime.
Viel Intellekt auf wenig Papier, das mag ich sehr.
"The Dehumanization" essay is a good read for my Modernism class."On Point of View in the Arts" is a good read for my Advanced Painting or Drawing class.
My 6: Refreshing, quotable, and often brilliantly wrong.
Unamuno/Ortega y Gassett class w/ Dale Pratt.
Full of brilliant observations. I often disagreed with the author, but he always kept me thinking.
