https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11988.The_Plague_The_Fall_Exile_and_the_Kingdom_and_Selected_Essays
I read The Plague, but I couldn't find that book listed on its own. It's a great book that had a profound effect on me in college. It was the first book I "had to read" in a literature class. I was so innocent, and this book opened my eyes to pain, suffering, death, tragedy... real life! I went on to be an English major. This book may have turned me in that direction.
Camus' THE FALL continues to haunt. It is the ghost of Augustinianism--and is itself haunted by an Augustinian option.
This is why I don't like riding in cars.
The Plague: Boring, speckled with inconsequential sequences, unrealistic and just runs into sand at the end. Excellent as a intellectually-looking inventory for your bedside table that lasts a very long time.The Fall: Interesting stylistically and intellectually from start as a dialogue reduced to a first person monologue, but eventually it just goes on rambling until you loose all capacity to pay attention.I am done with Camus.
I had high expectations. So, my bad.

In short, The Plague can be defined as a fictional version of the Myth of Sisyphus.
Similar to my feelings on Hemingway, I think the short stories are really the best work of Camus.The essays on Absurdism are quite interesting, though honestly the only parts I truly enjoyed and didn't find to be trying were the ones where Camus explains the absurd by reviewing the works of Dostoevsky and Kafka.
Using literary classics as a way to explain his concepts was a good choice and really helped with overall understanding of Camus' beliefs.Finally, Reflections on the Guillotine was probably the highlight of this collection, for me anyway.
"The Exile and the Kingdom" were also very enjoyable.There are two essays included in this collection: "the Myth of Sisyphus," which I've read before and "Reflection on the Guillotine." The latter is an especially poignant read with regards to capital punishment in the United States and the botched execution of an inmate several weeks ago.In my opinion, Sisyphus is the best work to read when trying to explain existentialism to someone.
If you're like me and you try to balance your literary diet and you're interested in existential writing, consider adding this one to your list.


I wanted to write a long note about how, once I'd finished rereading The Plague, it dawned on me that *this* story had played a giant role in forming my character.
And to realize something like that is a bit profound.
Perhaps it was due to the veil of fever I was reading through but I had to lie still awhile and cast myself back to the initial encounter and recall the kid I had been...
That ferociously vigilant and angry kid appalled by the world of the 80's...sigh.
Wanting, as Rimbaud wrote, (in which poem was it?
ما به ندرت برای کسلنی که از ما بهترند راز دل می گوییم .
حتی از محضرشان می گریزیم .
در مقابل ، بیشتر اوقات اسرار خود را نزد کسانی اعتراف می کنیم که به ما شباهت دارند و در ضعف ها و حقارت هایمان شریکند .
بنابراین ما نمی خواهیم خودمان را اصلاح کنیم یا بهتر شویم : زیرا در این صورت ابتدا باید به حکم عجز و قصور خویش گردن نهیم .
خلاصه می خواهیم دیگر مقصر نباشیم و در عین حال برای تزکیه نفسمان هم قدمی بر نداریم .
Really liked "The Plague" and "The Fall"--liked some of the selected essays better than others. "The Artist at Work" was quite good.This was the first time I had ever read Camus and I'm glad that I have read so much Greek and Russian literature over the years to prep for Camus.I enjoyed the style of writing by Camus because no one seems to write like this anymore.(This collection doesn't have "The Stranger" just so you know.)
"The nature of art is to bind the general to the particular... I also know that I am not seeking what is universal, but what is true. The two may well not coincide."For me Camus is an artist, a discerner of truth, a moralist, and, above all, a humanist.
The Plague is incredible; The Fall less so; Exile & the Kingdom is good but inconsistent; The Myth of Sisyphus is nearly impenetrable; and Reflections on the Guillotine is one of the most lucid, compassionate and persuasive pieces of writing there is.
The Plague and The Fall were recommended to me by my french tutor and shrink, respectively. The Plague went on a little too long, but The Fall was nice and short. Not bad if you're feeling philosophical, but not great either. These stories are like Limbo in book form.
I would of given this book a five, but it excludes The Stranger/The Outsider. Without this, I do not believe that is a true summary of Camus's contribution. However, The Fall and The Plague go further to detail Camus rebellion against French existentialism and his champion of Absurd philosophy.
I have read the Plague. It is not the favorite of mine. I received this book for Christmas the year before last and have been randomly picking it up to read The Fall, Exile and the Kingdom. With most of Camus' good books, it is always possible to find many things to think about from a few pages!
I read the introduction about Camus, and the one essay that was really of any interest to me entitled 'The Myth of Sisyphus'..."the struggle itself towards the heights is enough to fill a man's heart."
The foundation of a writing style; the philosophical foundation of a life.
Five stars for "The Plague" – absolutely brilliant novel
I have only read the introduction.
Excellent collection of many of Camus’s most important works and essays.
only read 'The Fall.' the other stuff was crappy. 'The Fall' teetered near the end but the first 2/3rds of it was damn great!
A great Collection which brigs together most of the 'Essential Camus'.
It's always a pleasure to add a celebrated author to shelf. I highly recommend reading his essays, The Myth of Sisyphus and Reflections on the Guillotine.
"The Plague" is Carp-500
my copy of this book doesn't have the jacket
Read it and caught the flu. Beware.
