https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2169506.The_Dead_and_the_Gone
(and by mighty, i mean only those vehemently opposed to adults who read teen fiction).
now, i am only opposed to adults who read teen fiction exclusively.
come find me in a year or two and see what is happening then.but i thought this book would be worth a read.
for example: the main character, a hard-working, catholic-school-attending, second-in-his-class, doing-homework-after-the-apocalypse kind of kid- this kid doesn't know how to make macaroni because of the traditional gender roles of his ethnicity??
boo-urns for repetition.but i know that when the third book comes out, i will be pushing teen readers out of the way with a vengeance.
Premise of both books: meteor hits moon, natural-disaster apocalypse ensues in the form of a collapsed infrastructure, food shortages, epidemics, etc.
Life As We Knew It took place in a suburban Pennsylvania town much like the one I grew up in.
TD&TG took place in New York City, a city much like the one I live in now.
Let's just establish this right now: if I were ever to have to experience an apocalypse, I probably wouldn't make it.
Disaster hits, and when the power goes out and the city starts to panic, Alex is at home with full responsibility for his two younger sisters.
One day they are a happy, large Puerto Rican family....and the next Alex finds himself trying to survive with his two younger sisters.
Alex and his sisters have to grow up quickly when they find themselves without parents in a city almost completely shut down in an instant.
Alex has to learn to scavenge from dead bodies and vacant apartments in order to have food, medicine and basic necessities.
The Last Survivors series is written for YA readers, so there is no graphic violence, sex or bad language.
I didn't like the characters as much as the first book (this is a companion novel following a new family of survivors), but I did appreciate that the author showed us this same event from such a different perspective and setting.
I enjoyed seeing how a huge city like New York would be affected by these natural disasters.The main character, Alex, hits or thinks about hitting his younger sister sometimes, which was difficult to reconcile with my wish to root for him.
Though less angsty and more mature than Miranda from the first book, his and his sisters' actions were more irritating.Rep: Main character and his family are Puerto Rican.tw: death, floods, illness, a brother hits his sister, starvation, sexism.
I read the companion novel Life As We Knew It, and swore I’d stay away from this book because it scared the beejeezuz out of me.
Well I saw it on my library shelf just glaring me in the face and daring to be read, so I picked it up like a dummy; and now I want to go to the store and stock up on food, medicine and water in case the world comes to an end sometime soon.
This book is so scary and surreal, and I really regret reading it.
And in the end, I felt like the book just abruptly ended.
The same apocalyptic events follow; Tsunamis claim the coasts, volcanoes erupt, ash fills the sky, arctic winter sets in followed by food shortages, killer flues and starvation.THE DEAD & THE GONE is equally as realistic and bone chilling as the first book, maybe even more so and also just as fascinating and unlookawayable.
(A tin of pineapple as it turns out) When his pretty and spirited 12 year old sister becomes something of value Alex has to find a way to get them out of New York at any cost.
wow.Hier gibt es noch eine Reihenrezensionhttp://lovelybooksbytine.blogspot.de/...
I get so enthralled with books that are set in a post apocalyptic world--well, at least one where natural disasters are going crazy.
Both had their highs and lows...but this one KILLED me for two major plot points:Alex's dad was the super of the building.
I know this a young adult book but Pfeffer isn't afraid to bring in harsh subjects (selling a young girl into basically sex slavery, anyone?)so it surprised me that she left out such an element.
(hide spoiler)]Don't get the idea that I didn't really enjoy this book; I totally did.
All the way through I complained and whined, the characters painfully unbelievable and about as dimensional as pancakes, but that said I could not stop reading.
Pfeffer is an amazing concept writer, and the concept is what pulls you through this book.
The characters are bland, and I'm somewhat amazed and disturbed at how emotionally unaffected it left me.
This sequel felt like a checklist of things Pfeffer left out of the first book a) glowingly positive representation of religion b) a city setting c) a male main character with sisters.
Check, Check, Check felt way too premeditated.
What happens in these books, which is actually a cool idea, is the first book is about Miranda in Pennsylvania, and the second book is about Alex in New York, a completely different cast of characters dealing with the same end-of-the-world catastrophe.
This all being said, I'm still interested to read the 3rd book because in it, Miranda is again the narrator, but the book deals with what happens when her father, stepmother, half sibling, and Alex (from book 2) shows up at her door, and they get together somehow, although it seems that the relationship doesn't work out.
It was really hard work to finish this book!
:-/Naturally, it didn't help that the characters had medieval worldviews including their opinion about what was "women's work" and what was the definition and job of a man!
I've read books about religious people before and although I myself am an atheist, it was fine.
Even the rare “high points” of the protag’s difficult existence-—and the near brush with a flu death—-are similar.The book is reasonably well-written, but I can’t help thinking that Pfeffer has simply written the same book twice instead of taking on new territory.
Six months into the crisis, the male protagonist can’t figure out how macaroni is prepared: “You use a pot for that, right?” This is supposed to show how much he depends on his sisters, how their work in the home is just as valuable to their survival.
Not as good as the first book, but a nice sequel that continues narrating how the moon being knocked out of orbit affects people in New YOrk now .
The rich and influential are able to get out of town, but the poor are left to fend for themselves and the Catholic church plays a powerful role in their survival, representing the moral center.
(This strong moral belief comes into play in the third book.) But the church can't pull bread and fish out of thin air, so there are a lot of desperate, starving and sick people in the city.
Yes, Alex resorts to some morally questionable activities, but I just think that in a big, bad city things would get worse.
Even if it wasn't Alex, there would be a lot of other people doing really bad things.
It’s riveting.The two books together make for very interesting reading as both detail what happens to different families during a natural disaster that causes the moon to move much closer to earth, causing cataclysmic changes.
I’d like to know what happens in the future to each of the families and it would also be interesting to have a book from the point of view of brand new characters as well.
And even though I knew her formula somewhat from reading the other book, the suspense was enormous.
Toujours aussi bon !! Je vais devoir attendre jeudi après-midi pour lire le tome 3 T_T
In other parts of the book, something interesting is about to happen and then the storyline is cut off in the middle of the action, as if the author just stopped writing the scene.
However, it seems to me the author did not do it well in this book and what we read was Pfeffer’s stereotype of what a Puerto Rican family was like.
As mentioned above, the author uses religious references and catholic references to depict the family that is the center of this book.
I’m sure they are out there somewhere, but they are certainly not in Susan Beth Pfeffer’s second book of her Last Survivors series.
At some point while reading this book, I glanced at the back and noticed a blurb that said, “for ages twelve and up” and really, that is the real problem here.
But I don’t recommend these books for adult readers of YA, unless of course you are looking for some serious fluffy brain candy ;)Update 12/11/11 Having read, and been severely disappointed by author Susan Beth Pfeffer's Blood Wounds, I actually will not be continuing this series.
More like 4,5* but closer to 4.
I felt like something was missing.
Maybe because is the sequel many things were just thrown in there.
Overall I really liked it but it was one of the saddest books I've read.
The characters all have to grow up so fast and this time there wasn't a mother to tell them what to do and do all the planning.
I love this city and I knew exactly where all the streets from the book are.
It was kinda weird to see this city in position like that.
That's what those books are about.
The Dead and the Gone has not made it up to my expectations especially after loving Life As We Knew It. I'll talk more about the problems that I found in the book rather than the ones I liked (which were fewer actually)Alex Morales is a seventeen-year-old Puerto Rican New Yorker whose parents disappear in the aftermath of the tidal waves, must must now care for his two younger sisters, Julie and Brianna even when hope seems all gone.The novel explores on how a young man takes on unimaginable responsibilities.
Brianna's annoying, Julie's annoying and Alex's annoying.
The third person POV just didn't work -- there was literally NO EMOTION the whole way through -- and the storyline (asteroid hits the moon, world thrown into chaos) was pretty much identical to Life As We Knew It. What was the point of going from the beginning again?
IT IS HARD, OKAY.There's a great line near the end when Alex thinks about "how often he'd felt burdened by his sisters." Oh, you mean the sisters who do your laundry, your cooking, and your cleaning -- those sisters?
Life as we Knew It was an amazing novel, and this was an amazing a terrible completely got that me convinced that Susan Beth Pfeffer was an amazing author a terrible author, At first, Pfeffer paints a realistic and exquisite picture of a latino family, which slowly starts to tear apart after a near-apocalyptic disaster.
At first, the book is completely believable, as are the characters, but slowly, the characters become far to unrealistic.
Will the fifteen year old girl start acting her age and stop being called Brush?
Will Kevin stop reading Playboy?
I just saved you from reading a terrible crapload of a book.
I was sucked in to this story like a whirlwind.
I loved it!
I thought this book was better than the first one, "Life as We Knew It"...
This second book in the series takes place in New York City and involves a Puerto Rican family.
The moon is knocked off its axis as in the first book and terrible things start to happen to the earth.
Its up to the oldest kid in the family to be the "man" of the house now.
The book is fast paced and never has a dull moment.
I look forward to book 3.
This book was good but It would be better if it had gunshots. The gun wasn't even useful in the story , and I'm glad Kevin died. N.Y is bad luck. I like how Alex took care of his sisters and bri has a strong faith.
The second in the series, we meet Alex and his sisters in NYC, who are coping after the apocalypse. After many unrealistic adventures, they make it out of the city and into the countryside. What are the odds that they will meet Miranda's family?
So I think I read a different book than all the other reviewers on here, because I was eternally irritated and pissed off at our protagonist.
Alex is misogynistic, a bully to his sisters, and a little bit of an idiot despite supposedly being one of the best in his class.Who doesn’t know how to boil water!?He has a problem using keys to get into abandoned apartments and going into his parents room, but no qualms about going through dead bodies’ pockets?
He refuses to communicate with his sisters and let them know what’s going on, then hits them when they question him?
Fuck you, guy.Father Mulroney was an idiot.
This sequel was just as good as the first book! I really love this series. The format and the writing just make the whole thing feel so real! Its a very scary book. At the same time, you just fall in love with these characters. Definitely recommend this one if you are a lover of Post Apocalyptic.
3.5 stars.
The third book continues on with Miranda’s story and that is the story that really interests me.
So, I feel like I went on a little detour in this series and will read the third book because I want to catch up with Miranda and see how life turns out for her.
I guess I will see what I think after book 3 to see if I want to continue.
(view spoiler)[Side Note: One thing in the book that drove me crazy in this book was the use of elevators.
Then Alex’s sister dies in this exact way in the elevator and they still continued to use it.
http://www.hoteatsandcoolreads.com/20...I love when you read a series, and the second book is just as good as the first.
This book follows Alex, a teen who lives in New York City, when the Asteroid hits the moon.
His struggle is much different than Miranda's, from the first book in the series, Life as We Knew It. Alex's parents disappear in the madness and he is responsible to take care of his two younger sisters.
This is Alex's new life.
I highly recommend this series to anyone who loves apocalyptic books.
These books are for everyone who enjoys a great read!
