https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53981.The_Great_Transformation
Even two centuries of market dominance have been unable to overcome human nature in this respect--when we look around at what motivates people's buying and selling choices, even in the modern West, the chief factor is clearly not economic interest, but social status.
Marketing experts know better than to listen to the claim that man trades primarily for his economic interest; it's about time professional economists woke up to the fact as well.Second is Polanyi's argument that land, labor, and money are of course not commodities at all--they are "fictional commodities." Land and labor are simply part of the basic fabric of natural human existence; only if they are torn completely away from their natural foundations can they begin to function as commodities, but even then, nature will continually re-assert itself, and the market will never gain uncontested mastery over them.
Foreword, by Joseph E. StiglitzIntroduction, by Fred BlockNote on the 2001 EditionAuthor's Acknowledgments--The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our TimeNotes on Sources:1. Balance of Power as Policy, Historical Law, Principle, and System2. Hundred Years' Peace3. The Snapping of the Golden Thread4. Swings of the Pendulum after World War I5. Finance and Peace6. Selected References to "Societies and Economic Systems"7. Selected References to "Evolution of the Market Pattern"8. The Literature of Speenhamland9. Poor Law and the Organization of Labor10. Speenhamland and Vienna11. Why Not Whitbread's Bill?12. Disraeli's "Two Nations" and the Problem of Colored RacesIndex
The first three are elements of the final element.That is, Polanyi posits that the free market is not free, nor is it self-perpetuating, nor is it a natural state of affairs - instead, governments have had to act in order to create economies on a national scale.
The government has had to act in order to create the free market.
Economy and society are inextricably linked, an apparatus which he calls the 'Market Society'.
He does not deny that on a simple level of raw productivity or GDPs, the 'free-market' system works.
What you get is this: the claim that markets and "socialism" are simultaneous in their emergence.
Markets would destroy the very elements they thrive upon -- human beings.What we get from Polanyi is that the temporal separation of "stages" that the Scottish Enlightenment figures (Smith, Hume, Ferguson, etc.), hegel, and marx deployed, is replaced in Polanyi by the "overlaps" of stages.
Or you could start with a short and excellent overall sketch in  The Economic Thought of Karl Polanyi: Lives and Livelihood, by James Ronald Stanfield.
I read this a few years ago.I've been thinking about it again after reading Streeck's stunning How Will Capitalism End?Maybe the key concept here is embeddedness (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embedde...)Capitalist society relies on pre-capitalist social formations to sustain itself.
to me, that seems like an open question; at the moment it almost seems equally radical to call for a new New Deal as a second Bolshevik revolution )http://prospect.org/article/karl-pola...'Hayek contended in The Road to Serfdom that even democratic forms of state planning were bound to end in the totalitarianism of a Stalin or a Hitler.
But 70 years later, there is not a single case of social democracy leading to dictatorship, while there are dozens of tragic episodes of market excess destroying democracy.
Polanyi understood economics more realistically than most economists, and understood that economics does not stand alone, but exists within a larger social institutional context.
But until you get it, you will suspect that economists don’t know something you don’t.
You might even believe in the “almighty market” as something that exists outside of culture and politics, like the revolutions of the planets.
Economics is always, like religion or politics, something we create together in response to the world we live in.
The people in this book are, among other things, creating a new economics.
Polanyi asserts that free markets, whereby labour, land and capital become fictitious commodities, result in massive social dislocation.
In his opinion, the establishment of the free market is not an inherent part of human nature, but rather a human invention, which can, and must, be extensively controlled and regulated.
A truly free market could never exist, as it would destroy man and nature within a very short amount of time, which it requires to function.
This is the inherent contradiction of unrestrained capitalism.This book attempts to answer a big question: how did we get to where we are?
It would be fair to say that the entire “science” of economics is founded upon the illusions that Polanyi exposes, since his principal thesis is that economic life is not the base of human society but “embedded” in it.Polanyi’s critique is as applicable to the Marxist as the Liberal tradition to the extent that Marx took over from Ricardo the notion that economic life is primary to society and not the other way round, as Polanyi insisted.
Polanyi’s thesis is based not on a Keynesian or Marxist critique of capitalism, but on a more profoundly basic analysis of the very idea of a self-regulating market; the idea (illusion) developed by the founders of the Liberal school: Ricardo, Malthus, Burke, and Mill.
The four stars (3.5 really) are because the author presents some excellent historical analysis and pulls that together to synthesize extremely original ideas of economic development.
I'm surprised we don't see more references to Polanyi's theories.I did have some concerns with his choice of historical events.
As is often the case, he has chosen those which support his arguments over other obvious events.
The book is worth reading reading as it demonstrates that there are their options to the left/right analyses to which we are accustomed to.
Marx is not the only voice on the left.
I really didn't like this book, mostly because I felt that it was poorly formulated and based on a lot of incomplete examples.
Every time Polanyi tried to prove something he'd give 4 examples of random indigenous populations in which the event occurred.
All of his examples seemed like exceptions rather than base cases for a rule, and his strange statements like "previously to our time (the 1940s/Industrial Revolution period in general) no economy has ever existed that, even in principle, was controlled by markets" made me question if we were even living in the same world.
Polanyi's "Great Transformation" is a classic of economic history in its older, political-economy mode, and a book too often forgotten in an era where economics is seen as a kind of physics, a discipline about ineluctable mathematical laws.
England and at the way British society, through relief schemes and workhouses, tried to cope with a world where workers were expected to behave as mere inputs.
A fine work, well-written, and frightening in its depictions of what "all that is solid melts into air" and "creative destruction" can mean in the absence of social constraints on the market.
This is a very important book.Polanyi's basic argument is that the tenets of the free-marketeers rely upon strange assumptions—one, that all human societies have been "barter" societies (that mankind is many things, but is, in essence "economic" first and foremost)—two, that the process of barter benefits both parties concerned.
Truly, I am neither cute nor unique when I reiterate what many others have said—the greatest revolutionizing force in recent history has been the spread of capitalism.Furthermore, Polanyi holds that if left unchecked, this great revolutionizing force of free markets not only destroys the bonds of society which help members understand their place within it, but destroys the planet.
On Adam Smith's vision of Economic Man, Polanyi writes: "In retrospect it can be said that no misreading of the past ever proved more prophetic of the future." That misreading lingers.While Polanyi's analysis of the nature of the origins and implications of the struggle between the market and society remains as incisive as ever, I cannot be assured by the optimistic note upon which he tries to close.
Also, the ecological effects of industrialization everywhere have hardly been addressed, let alone resolved, and may prove to be the absolutely insurmountable limit to the market (and the survival of society).
Just re-read this book from start to finish and I could not believe how relevant it is. This may be the most important book written this century. While some parts are obviously outdated, his thorough takedown of neoliberalism, myths of colonization and money are essential. The fact that we’re still only reading Adam Smith or Marx is a tragedy.
Private enterprise, "sound" currency, libertarianism, deregulation--the still familiar ideas that originated with Malthus, Smith, and Ricardo are shown here to be based wholly on fictions that defy the evidence of all human history.Among those fictions are that:* the motive of economic gain governs all "rational" social behavior--conclusively disproved by mountains of ethnographic evidence from all over the world;* human labor, land, and money are actually "commodities" produced for sale--an obvious falsehood in each case (just look at non-market societies)* and the world is strictly divided into economic and political spheres--this contradicts our actual experience of society, as a world of continuous human interaction.Despite their absurdity, these fictions were nonetheless enforced by the liberal state in the midst of the industrial revolution, eventually supplanting traditional economic practices all over Europe (and beyond) and leading predictably to social chaos and suffering for the most vulnerable classes.According to Polanyi, industrialization seemed to proceed independently of any ideology; the fictions of economic liberalism merely filled this ideological vacuum, becoming the axioms of economic life for a century.
Karl Polanyi sadly passed away before his writing could find its natural format, a 100+ tweet thread beginning with "It's Time For Some Game Theory..."This book is nominally an account of the development of laissez faire capitalism, and a rebuttal to the arguments of Ludwig Von Mises that free markets naturally develop in the absence of political intervention, with a kicker about capitalism's responsibility for the rise of fascism (the book was published in 1944).What this book is is a rambling series of vaguely linked essays and tangents, with a few sparkling epigrams buried in a mass of economical-historical mush.
When I was in graduate school, I read Michael Polanyi's Personal Knowledge: Towards a Post-Critical Philosophy (1958) and was impressed with the way in which he argues that positivism gives a false account of knowing.
The sentence goes to the heart of Polanyi's position: the rejection of the free market as an incontrovertible universal force of nature like gravity whose action benefits everyone.
For Polanyi, the free market is a theoretical construct that is helpful in examining certain sorts of economic behavior.
Machine production in a commercial society (the only kind that can have it, because machine production is necessarily 24/7)involves no less a transformation than that of the natural and human substance of society into commodities.
nothing less will serve the purpose: obviously, the dislocation caused by such devices (i.e.the whole apparatus of the market economy)must disjoint [humanity's:] relationships and threaten [our:] natural habitat with annihilation."HEY MARXISTS!
Polanyi is saying (I got this wrong in my first post, before I finished and re-read, that the market society (which we call "the economy") which has nearly eaten up the whole world, is an inevitable result of mechanized mass production.
I came to this from a Marxist orientation, wanting to understand the roots of John O' Connor's ecosocialism. One of the books that changed how I think. Though I disagree with its implicit dismissal of working class struggle
“Belief in the gold standard was the faith of the age." (26) Currency became "the pivot of national politics” (25) and the “snapping of the golden thread was the signal for a world revolution.” (29) To understand the upheavals of the 1920s and 1930s, Polanyi argues that we must look back to 19th Century England and the roots of market society.
Self-Protection of SocietyCh. 11: Polanyi restates his “double movement” argument (136-137) and proposes to show how the crisis of the early 20th Century grew out of “the clash of the organizing principles of economic liberalism and social protection….and the conflict of class.” (140) ***Ch. 12: Economic liberalism only emerged in the 1830s, when its three classical tenets came into being: a labor market; the gold standard; and free trade.
His assertion is that a truly free market could not exist for any length of time without "annihilating the human and natural substance of society...it would have physically destroyed man and transformed his surroundings into a wilderness." Free markets cannot be achieved because of what he terms "embeddedness." The economy is submerged, or deeply embedded in the social context and relationships within that context.
A truly free market must be disembedded to be fully self-regulating.Polanyi also suggests that free markets are undesirable...unregulated, unrestrained greed ultimately leads to abuse of those in vulnerable positions within society.What is needed according to Polanyi?
Some books take one idea and build an ironclad case around it.
This book, on the other hand, is chock full of ideas.
The idea is that the free market is embedded in, and consequently a tool of society.
But the free market is assumed to be entirely independent of social structure in order to function properly and society is merely a small adjunct.
Because people in society will not sacrifice their lives for the ideal of the free market when the automated control it provides makes their lives worse.
A really great book full of ideas to help you understand the world.
I discovered Polanyi's work through a provocative essay on The Market as God in which religious commentator, Harvey Cox writes: "Since the earliest stages of human history, of course, there have been bazaars, rialtos, and trading posts—all markets.
But The Market was never God, because there were other centers of value and meaning, other "gods." The Market operated within a plethora of other institutions that restrained it.
As Karl Polanyi has demonstrated in his classic work The Great Transformation, only in the past two centuries has The Market risen above these demigods and chthonic spirits to become today's First Cause."Bumping this tome up the list for serious summer reading.
I'd like to recommend the literature of what's wrong with capitalism — how if you let it just run unregulated, it will self-destruct like it's doing right now, and it will drive millions of people into bankruptcy and kick up unemployment.
People haven't written about that in a long time because we've been living in a state where we thought those problems had been solved, and now it turns out they haven't been.
The classic book on that subject is called The Great Transformation by Karl Polanyi.
It's not the easiest thing to read, but it's the classic indictment of pure, laissez-faire, 19th-century style economics.
I get a big kick out of it."
In this absolutely marvelous book--his magnum opus--, Karl Polanyi analyzes free-market ideology in an absolutely brilliant and accessible way.It is unfair to say that this book is prophetic.
As he was arguing with the founder of modern economics, the author was going on far more than intuition.
(Karl Polanyi was the intellectual rival of the founder of modern neoliberalism--that is, of the man who later became economic adviser to Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan.) It is, however, the best critical analysis you could possible ask for on the origins and nature of free market economics.
As far as I know, Stiglitz was in diapers when Polanyi wrote the Great Transformation, so I don't know why he is listed as an author. I have the original edition of this book and it is a timeless economics classic and has yet to be surpassed in breadth and depth by any current economic theorist. Also, Polanyi is about as sexy as economics gets.
Te underlying philosophy is that if development harms people right now, than don't do it; i.e., the ends don't justify the means, something I agree with very strongly.
That there is no hand of providence guiding the markets towards grace. That no one in the political sciences can write, and that professors educated at harvard yet pontificate elsewhere are worms.
To monetize both these factors reduces the natural placement of each in our world, especially considering how nature can and will re-assert itself over humanity and our economic systems.Second, Polanyi theorizes that the debate between "socialist intervention" and "economic liberalism" will become the norm- and from a 21st century lens, this is true.
The main macroeconomic debates, throughout the 20th century was between Keynesian and Hayek's neoclassical economics.Third, the assertion that man is only fueled by economic self-interest- as believed by Adam Smith/Ricardo- is false.
While the book is commonly associated with the Social Democracy/Keynes/Bretton Woods/New Deal-ish regulated market economy, Polanyi's critique of the market society, where the social, humanity in fact, is subordinated to the logic profits ('running of society as an adjunct to the market') is much more fundamental.His key argument is that there was nothing 'natural' about the free market.
He says, essentially, that a kind of 19th century free market capitalism must end in hell, total destruction of the social fabric, exploitation and misery.
