https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2617684-winnie-the-pooh-and-tigger-too
Winnie the Pooh stories always have awesome themes and lessons that are great for a classroom setting. Themes like teamwork, friendship, and persistence are portrayed in this story.
Just so sweet! I loved reading this to my children and now to my grandchildren. If Pooh is a bear of very little brain.....well, I don't believe it.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12228936
Several of these books have the same basic story but written differently.
Tigger (and Rabbit) learn important lessons...it is far better to talk to each other instead of trying to trick each into changing. Timeless lessons presented in a simple way.
In this book Winnie the Pooh was walking to go see Piglet, and Tigger came bouncing by. Tigger was going to Rabbit's house. And Tigger bounced on Pooh. I liked this book because Pooh and Piglet and Rabbit were hiding in a log after they left Tigger in the woods. Then Tigger came on top of the log. It was not scary. Tigger got stuck on a tree and Tigger came down and Rabbit said no more bouncing. And Tigger said he was not going to bounce anymore and Rabbit was not being nice.  -by Felicity
This. Was. A. Page. Turner!! LOVEEEEEDDDDD IT
One of the first books I received in my collection of the 'Disney's Wonderful World of Reading' and what a wonderful collection it is!
The art style is beautiful (And I proudly state that in the entire collection, all of these books have brand new illustrations, instead of just the common screenshots you see in todays releases).
The story is a classic and as a child I fondly remember being truely concerned about the misadventures that Winnie the Pooh would have in his stories.
Today I have collected almost the ENTIRE series and I display them very proudly in my Disney cabinet.
This book was definitely one of my favorites growing up because I loved everything Winnie The Pooh! I was so excited to find this book and to read it again. This would be a great read aloud so that the different voices could be used for the different characters that most know. I also enjoyed the use of descriptive words to teach the reader and they are used twice most of the time to practice the word once and to sound it out and then to read it again.
This story is sure to entertain any child and has been a very popular and beloved tale for many children for years. I love how the story is shown through its detailed illustrations because it does have a lot of words for a children's picturebook. However, it introduces many different sentence structures and is great for discussing storytelling within the classroom.
Winnie the Pooh has always been the kids favorite character since i was a kid over ten years ago. In this particular story, Winnie and Tigger go on an adventure to try to find there friend in the woods. With great pictures and vocabulary, the kids will be well entertained.
This is a really sweet story that helps young kids learn things about life while telling it through the cute characters in the story. The book is adorable with great pictures that younger kids will enjoy.... This will be going to my niece who is going to love it!
PB 40: This book is great for showing children that you should accept others for who they are. Rabbit did not like Tigger's bouncing, but when he finally got him to stop bouncing he realized that he likes the bouncy Tigger better. Great lesson with classic characters.
READ THE REAL WINNIE THE POOH BOOKS THIS IS RUBBISH!!!!!!!
Such a great and classic children's novel that has delighted children for generations, and will continue to delight for generations to come.
Enjoyed by children both big and small. Recommended.
This book is good because it shows how everyone is unique. It shows how strong friendships are and that working as a team is beneficial.
Meh. Adaptations by "reading" groups are usually boring, poorly done. The attempt to make the books easy ignores any sense of whimsy or fun. Basal readers fail new readers because they underestimate the power of interest and curiosity and underestimate the intelligence and abilities of readers. This is no exception. Julius brought it home from school. When we finish The Little Prince, I'll see if he's interested in the real Winnie the Pooh by A.A. Milne.
This delightfully illustrated book is a great representation of the Tigger introduction sequence from the movie 'The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh' and the font is large enough that most children can read it with ease. For myself it is a good little book to read quietly while unwinding for the day or if you're feeling under the weather.
Winnie the Pooh is a classic, my favourite character of all time! Cute, sweet, friendly, funny and with a tendency of binging on sweets - what's there not to love? When you read the series, you learn about friendship, life, but all with a refreshing dose of innocence and humour.
This book is an adaptation of the story in the Winnie the Pooh cartoon. Rabbit is annoyed with Tigger's bouncing and tries to scare him into not bouncing...which doesn't work. Then, he tricks him into not bouncing, but Tigger is so sad that Rabbit gives the okay for him to bounce again.
This book is a very funny and very well written book about the story of Pooh and Tigger bouncing everywhere. It is a great book about how we need to be true to ourselves and not let others change us
Rabbit is annoyed with Tiggers bouncy nature and tries to change him. Soon he realizes that he likes Tigger just the way he is, bouncing and all.Very cute story.
My daughter was just diagnosed with ADHD. A lot of truth in this book.Also I just noticed I have 2 different versions of it
This was probably the first Winnie the Pooh story i ever read. For that reason and nostalgia, 5 stars.
This is a nice story about Winnie the Pooh and his forest friends and how we need to accept people for who they are and not try to change them.
This is an awesome children's book. It is about Rabbit wanting to stop Tigger from bouncing,so he tries to plot something with Piglet and Pooh. The plan ends up backfiring and Rabbit eventually decides that he likes when Tigger bounces.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
Disney is not my favorite anymore...it just seems to be a recap of a movie, when it comes to the books. They tend to leave out the character building parts of the movie and focus on storyline only, which is becoming annoying to me. What is the point of a story without some kind of a message. The message in this one is don't leave Tigger in the woods - he will find his way out and you won't.
This is a really cute beginning reader book about Winnie the Pooh and all his friends. It might be a little bit too difficult to be considered a true beginning reader, but I think you could definitely make a good argument for it. It would be a fun book for kids, who are familiar with Disney characters, to take home and read with their parents.
