https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8187887-free-thought-and-official-propaganda
Free Thought and Official Propaganda, Bertrand Russell, Watts and Co.1922 - Nabu Press 2010تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم ماه آوریل سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: آزاداندیشی و تبلیغات رسمی؛ نویسنده: برتراند راسل؛ مترجم: امیر کشفی؛این رساله خطابه ای است که «برتراند راسل» در سال 1922 میلادی در مجلس یادبود کانوی ایراد کردند. ترجمه فارسی آن بر پایه اثر بالا انجام شده استا. شربیانی
دوستانِ گرانقدر، در این کتاب، «برتراند راسل» خردمند و بزرگوار (یادش همیشه زنده و گرامی باد) در موردِ «آزاد اندیشی» و «اندیشهٔ آزاد» سخنانِ بسیار خردمندانه ای بیان نموده است که سعی کردم چکیده ای از مهمترین بیاناتِ این فیلسوفِ بزرگ را در زیر برایِ شما دوستانِ فهیم، بنویسمعزیزانم، به اعتقادِ «راسل» "آزاداندیشی" در معنایِ محدودش به معنیِ اندیشه ای است كه خشک اندیشی و جزم هایِ اديانِ و مذاهب را نمی پذيرد... کسی «آزادانـديش» اسـت، که هیچ دینی: چه مسیحی، چه مسلمان و چه یهودی و چه ادیانِ دیگر را نپذیرفت
آنها اندیشیدن و روش درستِ تفکر را از مردم میگیرند، زیرا به نفعِ آنها نیست که مردمِ معمولی و عادی مستقل فکر کنند، زیرا تصور شده است كه مردمی كه مستقل فكر ميكنند، برایِ مديريت ناآزموده هستند و موجبِ مشكلاتِ اجرایی برایِ حکومت و دولت ميشوند---------------------------------------------------------------------------‎عزیزانِ من، آرزوی رسیدن به «آزاد اندیشی» و درکل «آزادی»، برایِ یک اجتماع و مردمِ آن، قطعاتِ فکری آزاده میخواهد، متأسفانه بسیاری از ساکنینِ سرزمینِ ما جز کتاب شیون، هیچ برای تعلیم انسانی در خود فهم نمیکند‎وقتی هنوز این مردم، توسط متولیان دین، معنایِ فهمِ «آزادی» را در بی بند و باری، تعلیم میگیرند، و مدام به آنها القاء میشود که «آزادی» یعنی بی بند و باریِ جنسیتی، که غرب آن را ترویج میکند...
Perhaps the sickliest racist ending I've seen so far in my whole lifetime, this short text is quite a brilliant analysis on the topic of propaganda and its ill effects on social development.Russell traces exceptional connections between the problems of education for intelligence, making a living and free thought (which he does not confuse with superfluous free speech) as far as I can tell.His political views are to be paralleled with Orwell's Animal Farm to the point that economic monopolies (capitalism) and State control (URSS so called socialism) become antithesis of healthy development.
Transcript of a lecture given by Russell I would guess in the twenties or thirties on Free thought. Good incite but the text came with a lot of typos and was very short. It looks like anything that can be found that Russell said in his life is game for publishing which is a testament to the man. Still I think the things he said in this lecture can be found in his other writings.
In this short essay, Welsh philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell wrote about his understanding of free thought, liberty of the press and state (official) propaganda. The text is readable, clear and straightforward. Liberty of thought and speech is a hard feature to achieve and harder to maintain. States and social arrangements have distinct ways to suppress it. Russell points to some of it and gives some tolls to overcome it, in order to achieve better results, provided we all agree in the goodness of free thought.
"Our system of education turns young people out of the schools able to read, but for the most part unable to weigh evidence or to form an independent opinion."Reading this in 2018 and thinking, "We sure have made no great progress". Kids in schools and people who get easily swayed by political/religious/state propaganda should try going through this short essay.
To be watchfulOutstanding philosophy presented in 1922 that can carry a warning to present time of the dangers propaganda exercised by; elected,appointed, and bureaucratic officials can use to threaten freedom of thought for the individual.Should be requiring reading at all levels of a free society.
More important than everA must read in today's political climate. Unfortunately, the predictions of ninety years ago were too optimistic. Anyone still concerned with ethics and truth needs to read this. It wouldn't hurt you trump supporters who can actually read either.
Excellent read! You literally want to quote something on each page. Easy to read and inspiring.
This is the transcript for a short, but dense lecture. I won't try to summarize it. I'll probably need to listen to the lecture a few times.
Per page, I have found this more rewarding than any book that I've read. Russell discusses freedom of religion, his personal experiences, the hypocrisies found among various countries and their laws, education and propaganda, all in 25 pages. He does this while tying together relevant events that give an accurate historical perspective of the time. Still more impressive is how engaging the writing is. What's strange is how progressive Russell was and yet ends the essay with an oddly racist sentence. That shocked the hell out of me! Was he trolling? Perhaps we'll never know.
This speech is valuable today in the political climate of Trump's America. If only we had listened to Bertrand a hundred years ago and taught our children how to think rather than how to be subjects..."so long as men continue to have the present fanatical belief in the importance of politics free thought on political matters will be impossible,"
"Credulity is a greater evil in the present day than it ever was before, because, owing to the growth of education, it is much easier than it used to be to spread misinformation, and, owing to democracy, the spread of misinformation is more important than in former times to the holders of power."Perhaps this is why Trump won the 2016 election.
An old premise for 21st centuryWere Bertrand Russell alive today, I wonder if he would change a single word. The ideas presented may be exactly what America needs in these turbulent and polarized times.
Eye openingAn amazing read that really makes one thank about what he's as read through out their live. Abouslte lovely read
Rereading this work with a 2017 lens. “What is wanted is not the will to believe, but the wish to find out, which is the exact opposite.”
Has some interesting tidbits but nothing mind-blowing. It's a quick read, but lacks focus and direction.
I read this book before arriving at and after leaving Occupy Austin today. Bertrand Russell's analysis of free thought and propaganda makes me feel (and think) less like an apolitical freak, and more like an intelligent human being who wants freedom from truly faulty economic and political ideologies - left and right - and freedom from the propaganda that suppresses true free thinking.
"We are faced with the paradoxical fact that education has become one of the chief obstacles to intelligence and freedom of thought."As the complexity of society increases, the need for an educated population increases drastically. Bertrand Russell's lecture on "Free Thought and Official Propaganda" is a good place to start.
This books makes me feel less like an apolitical freak, and more like a human being who wants freedom from truly faulty economic political ideologies - left and right - and the propaganda that suppresses true free thinking.
FantasticIt's obvious, early on, that these words are still relevant today. This is quite sad, but also quite beautiful. A must read for everyone.
Excluding that last sentence, which more than he knew, aloud me a peek into his mind. His information was on point.
A brilliant thinker whose ideas are as apt today as 94 years ago.
A thought provoking read. It would be interesting to hear how Mr. Russell would react to contemporary speech issues....
Beautiful. Simply beautiful. Written in 1922 and still crystal clear almost a century later. The charlatans of the continental philosophy can't express one section in 800 pages.
