https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194642.Some_Prefer_Nettles
I enjoyed Some Prefer Nettles immensely. If you appreciate or seek classic literarary fiction, Japanese novels, a well-formed sentence --and many of them --over plot, ambiguous endings, complex family dynamics, imperfect marriages, and the sound of rain frogs on a summer's eve, you likewise may appreciate it.For an excellent review, read this from William:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
We’re in 1930’s Japan and one of the main themes of the book is how the people, the upper middle business class, anyway, feel torn between modern Japan with all its new western influence and traditional Japan.
Despite his western predilections, he starts to admire his father-in-law, who, in his old age, has turned back to traditional Japanese culture.
Kaname, who considers himself a modern man, has even allowed Misako to see a lover, even though they still share the same house.
One morning Kaname arranges to meet his father-in-law at the bunraku puppet theater in Osaka, a favorite haunt of that connoisseur of Japanese culture.
Misako represents the female side of the modern/traditionalist continuum, just as the old man does the male side.
He is intoxicated by the old ways and his father-in-law's lifestyle but thinks of himself as modern.
With Takanatsu's arrival we see how truly split Kaname is between so-called modern (Western) views and the lure of old Japan.
Kaname and Misako are getting divorced, if they ever get around to it.
Kaname's main concern is that when the divorce happens, the lover had better settle down with her to save embarrassment.
The part where the loss of love isn't even that interesting; the logistics of divorce are the scary part.All this and puppet shows!
Kaname finds truth in the old-fashioned Japanese puppet shows.
Tanizaki wrote this book two years before they got divorced; it may be a subtle hint, but one would imagine she got it.this is an actual thingO-hisa isn't quite what she presents as.
Cada bicho com seu gosto; alguns preferem urtigas.(Provérbio japonês)Este é o quarto romance que leio de Tanizaki.
É considerado uma das suas melhores obras, mas eu sou mais bicho de urtigas...Entre representações de um teatro tradicional japonês de marionetas, "actua" um casal já cansado um do outro.
O mais frequente não é marido e mulher enganarem-se reciprocamente, mas ambos reconhecerem e ignorarem o facto, muito como no meu caso."E eu sempre a aprender...já sabia que no Ocidente o adultério é coisa corriqueira, o que não sabia é que era consentido e apreciado pelos respetivos cônjuges.O tema tem a sua piada, mas o (pouco) desenvolvimento é que aborrece...
Introduction--Some Prefer Nettles
A fine novel - I keep thinking of mixing clouds of smoke, with all of the intertwining and contrasting themes. A theatre of contrasts. I look forward to more.
Tanizaki is one of the greats in Japanese literature -and the only one that I know who was obsessed with how the West mixed with the old Japanese culture - in its practice as well as its aesthetic. The puppet theater in the novel is worth the price alone, but what is fascinating about this book is how Tanizaki shares his doubts and love of western culture. It was a conflict with him, and this is what makes his literature so unique in Japanese 20th Century letters.
There is a lot of "the grass is greener on the other side" in this short little classic. The question is what side of the fence is greener. There is the west is best or go with the traditional Japanese culture, live life like modern Tokyo or be like the country hicks in Osaka, and stay married where there is obvious love (but no sex) or divorce and proceed into new marriages. Japanese puppet theatre is lovingly featured as well.
The story of the gradual disintegration of a marriage, 'Some Prefer Nettles' is not Tanizaki's novels, but contains moments of beauty and poetry interspersed between pages of often too stilted dialogue.
Perhaps the dialogue is purposefully stilted; after all the key theme of the novel is the disaffection between the married couple Kaname and Misako, however their separation is a reflection of wider societal trends which Tanizaki is commenting and reflecting on.
รักไมเตมรอย Some prefer nettles ของ จุนอิจิโร ทานิซากิ แปลโดย แคน สังคีต สนพ.บานหนังสือผิดคาดกับเลมนีทีเดียวคะ เพราะอาน The Key กับ Quicksand มา เรากคาดวาเลมนีของทานิซากิมันคงจะบีบคัน ทำรายคนอานหนักหนาสุดๆ ตามเคย แตเปลาเลย Some prefer nettles มันไมใชงานในแนวทีเราคิดเรืองราวของ Some prefer nettles มี 'คานาเมะ' คุณสามีเปนตัวเอก เขามีชีวิตสมรสทีไมคอยจะราบรืนเทาไร แต... มันกไมใชดวยเหตุผลเลวทรามตำชา เคาแคมอง 'มิซาโกะ' ภรรยาของตัวเอง เปนเหมือน 'เพือนมนุษย' มากกวาจะเหนเธอเปนผูหญิง ซึง...สำหรับคนเปนภรรย

From the first reading, I thought I remembered that the father-in-law and his mistress did the Shikoku 88 temple pilgrimage, but I was wrong and they do a less arduous 33 holy places on Awaji.
They are thoroughly modern (Western influenced Tokyo types) and they haven't the energy to stop the rot.
It's his father-in-law's influence.
The father-in-law is a man who likes his theatre like his women; dolls.
Kaname ends up swinging the same way.
It's a bit "Choose Your Own Adventure" at the end.I liked the thoroughly modern cousin who smells of garlic.
I liked that the thoroughly modern people worried about how the boy will take the separation.
READ DURING "THE DARKNESS"A very touching and incredibly sad story of a disintegrating marriage. Would elaborate but high levels of pharmacopeia at the time allows for little recall. (Million-dollar idea: Remake of Total Recall named Little Recall featuring the talents of dwarf actors exclusively. Nailed it!)
Siamo nel 1928, Kanamè e Misako, ancora giovani, sono sposati da oltre dieci anni; tra loro non vi è mai stata passione, lei ha un amante, il marito tollera e persino incoraggia il legame extraconiugale della moglie.
La grandezza di Tanizaki sta nel raccontare perfettamente, grazie a una scrittura lenta e dilatata, non solo la semplice storia di una relazione amorosa in stallo, ma soprattutto la difficoltà di Kanamè, e con lui di tutta la società nipponica di quel periodo, a staccarsi dalle antiche tradizioni orientali per entrare di fatto nella modernità occidentale.
Kanamè ci viene presentato nelle prime pagine come amante del jazz e del cinema hollywoodiano, a cui vorrebbe ispirarsi anche per una relazione sentimentale che veda la donna al centro della passione di un uomo.
Some Prefer Nettles is not at all a badly written book, but unfortunately there was nothing in the story or characters I could relate to.Tanizaki tells a story of a married couple that no longer wants to be married, but somehow Misako and Kaname don't do anything towards their official separation.
I fully understand what Takizaki tried to do in terms of the conflicts between East and West, old and modern, but...no.
It's not that Some Prefer Nettles was a major disappointment, it just didn't speak to me in a way that can make me really like a book.
але вони й так знають сюжет і пам'ятають ролі – їх менше цікавить розвиток п'єси, ніж прояви майстерності ляльковиків; а те, що мистецтво бунраку, можливо, скоро остаточно загине, додає відчуттям вишуканості.
щось схоже відбувається з самими місако і канаме, які грають ролі так, наче за ними в будь-яку мить хтось може спостерігати, мучаться від своєї підвішеної ситуації, та водночас гостріше переживають кожну дрібницю; щось схоже робить танідзакі на метарівні, коли віртуозно виплітає історію, але зрештою обриває її, не сказавши так або ні.
memilih jelatang diterjrmahkan oleh Mokhtar Ahmad (yang turut terjemah 100 years of solitude) dan aku dapat buku ni percuma setelah membeli novel seorang penulis kacak.Okay buku ni tentang konflik perhubungan suami isteri di ambang penceraian.
Watak utama iaitu Kaname dan isterinya Misako, membuat keputusan untuk bercerai setelah kehidupan suamiisteri tidak berisikan cinta lagi.
Dalam masa yang sama mereka memiliki anak.Kaname memberikan kebebasan kepada Misako untuk menjalin hubungan dengan Aso dan Kaname pula kerap bersama Louise, perempuan yang dianggapnya kadang2 sebagai teman kadang2 sebagai mainan.Apabila ayahnya mendapat berita yang ia akan bercerai maka...Baiklah, penceritaannya ok.
Tapi dibaca pada zaman sekarang, ianya rasanya bacaan yang sederhana saja.
We’re all fascinated by things foreign and new, but at the same time still uphold a lot of traditional aspects even unintentionally (this is further reinforced by Kaname saying that his marriage would maybe work in the west but would be unheard of in Japanese society towards the beginning of the novel, and then later the old man says how many relationships, including his marriage, are very much like theirs).Kaname in particularly is in love with the perfect eastern personification, which is why he is fascinated by O-hisa, he even says that maybe he could end up with someone who is "more O-hisa than O-hisa actually is." (I don't have the book on me, so this is probably not the full quote, just the gist of it).
Tutto il libro ruota attorno all'ipotesi di un divorzio, che appare inevitabile nonostante venga sempre rinviato, ed alle sue conseguenze.Tanizaki con una prosa raffinata e sottile ci presenta un uomo combattuto fra la millenaria tradizione giapponese e lo stile di vita occidentale.
Nell'affrontare questa piccola “odissea coniugale" il nostro protagonista riscopre la bellezza di un'antica arte giapponese: il teatro delle marionette.
Le marionette, con tutti i loro significati, giocano infatti un ruolo decisivo in questo libro.Ho trovato questo romanzo un gioiellino, una lettura piacevole e delicata, con una ben sviluppata analisi psicologica dei personaggi e della situazione particolare che si trovano a vivere.Consigliato a tutti gli amanti di letteratura giapponese.
Ne parlo qua: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIPCV...
""יש המעדיפים סרפדים"" נחשב לספר מהפכני לתקופתו.
בקריאה אנכרוניסטית אפשר אף לראות בו ספר בעל יסוד חתרני, המערער את השמרנות החברתית תוך שבירת מוסכמות.
הפירוד בין קנמה ומיסקו הוא עיניין כמעט גמור.
הספר נע בשני מישורים, סיפור הזוגיות האומללה של קנמה ומיסקו וסיפור הפיכת יפן למערבית.
סיפורים מקבילים ומשיקים לעיתים נדמה כי סיפור הנישואים הוא מטאפורה לשינוי שעובר על יפן בשנות ה- 20 של המאה ה- 20.
ספר נפלא, מכווץ את הלב ואחרית הדבר מאת ד""ר מיכל דליות - בול תורמת לו ערך מוסף שמשדרג את הקריאה.
""יש המעדיפים סרפדים"", ג´ואניצ´ירו טניזקי הוצאת מודן, 2009, 223 עמודים "
Nowadays, however, one is counted clever if one can reach a goal without tasting the sorrow, however slight it may be, that seems to lie along the way.
They could only accommodate themselves to their cowardice and follow its peculiar way to happiness."A small, beautifully written novel about the gradual dissolution of a marriage.
The gentle, undramatic tone of the novel made it feel realistic and honest, and I continue to maintain my general impression that Tanizaki approaches the Japanese version of Tolstoy.
My little library here in London has a strangely sizable collection of Japanese literature (Tanizaki, Oe, Kirino), so I may be returning quite often to Japan.
This is a very beautiful and simple book about a young man and woman in an apparently loveless marriage, and the hold of Japanese traditions which both comfort and chafe them. The story is told alongside the traditional puppet shows: the ancient stories of the Bunraku puppet shows of Osaka and Awaji island. It was very lovely and touching, much less complex than the Makioka Sisters, which I also love.
The version I read was translated from Japanese by Edward Seidensticker in 1951.) Like Quicksand it has as its center a failed marriage, though of a different kind and among people of a very different sort.Misako and her husband Kaname got married at a time of matrimonial transition from arranged marriages through family connections or brokers to marriages of romantic love.
There is an amazing two page description of a minor character, a fifty year old Canadian woman who owns and operates a number of brothels, that is an amazing literary jewel.In Some Prefer Nettles we see a classic Reading Life type in the father in law, a man who has sort of cultivated himself into a isolated corner.
The story is told by (the husband) Kaname who has accepted the state of affairs and pushed his wife into the arms of a lover via an informal arrangement that he is considering making formal.
The story is at once about marital conflict but also a cultural conflict between the Osakan tradition and the emerging modern Tokyo.
" We Japanese scorn bold fact, and we consider it good form to keep a thin sheet of paper between the fact or the object and the words that give expression to it".
Written in Tanizaki's distinctive style, his depiction of life in Japan during the earlier decades of the 1900's is richly textured, beautifully refined, and intimately inviting.
Tanizaki masterfully maintains a delicate balance between description and suggestion throughout the narrative.The story centers around a wife and husband who have decided on a divorce after realizing for some time that their marriage is without passion, or even, much emotion.
Like many of his works, it is bathed in irony and steeped in symbolism.
The plot may not move as quickly or entertain as much, but it is still as intriguing as some of his best works.

Junichiro Tanizaki's "Some Prefer Nettles" is the story of the slow and painful dissolution of a marriage.
For much of the story, both Kaname and Misako are paralyzed, each unhappy and wanting the other to take the steps necessary for a divorce.Unfortunately, I found much of the novel slow and painful to read.
I could see what Tanizaki was trying to do -- contrast East and West, show the difference between the view of the virtuous woman and the debased-- I just didn't find it terribly interesting.
just as things finally got moving in a direction, the story ended.
This book wasn't bad but I didn't enjoy it. It's well-written and not boring or anything but I didn't like either the subject matter or the characters. There wasn't a single person I could relate to or that I remotely enjoyed reading about. This does make me want to try another book by Tanizaki though, preferably something that isn't about divorce and infidelity.
some prefer another book.
