https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/434903.The_Rings_of_Saturn
As I passed the Golden Hill take-away on Haydn Road its uninspiring shopfront nevertheless brought to mind the cruel life of the Dowager Empress T'zu-Hsi, who personally strangled eight of her own sons, including the schizophrenic Emperor T'ung-chih and whose influence in the latter quarter of the nineteenth century in China was ahistorically described by Edwin Featherstonehaugh of Bedevere College, Oxford as that of  a human boll weevil.
The commotion attracted the attention of another dog, not a Labrador, more a kind of bull terrier crossbreed, which inspired me to discover a previously unknown twitchell, ginny, or back passage, which led into Sherwood High Street.
I sat on the cliff edge, sipping weak tea, under a looming livid sky, and contemplated the rusted cars 100 feet below, the surging waves, and the retreating certainties.
L’appetito vien mangiando, e di questo viandante e dei suoi racconti e divagazioni non si riesce più a fare a meno, se ne vorrebbero sempre altri.L’immagine di copertina dell’edizione Adelphi.Lo scrittore vagabondo trova sulla riva del mare un recinto che rinchiude un centinaio di maiali addormentati: scavalca la recinzione elettrificata (bella prova di determinazione e di spregio della proprietà privata), si china vicino a uno dei cento animali e si mette a fargli grattini dietro l’orecchio, proprio come si fa al gatto di casa; nel frattempo, si accoccola sulla spiaggia e pensa a due pseudo scienziati che si sforzarono di ricavare luce naturale dal corpo delle aringhe morte, e si chiamavano Herrington (in inglese aringa si dice herring) e Lightbown (light=luce); ma anche a quell’articolo del noto quotidiano ‘Eastern Daily Press’, di cui ci fornisce testimonianza fotografica nel caso fossimo scettici, intitolato ‘Housekeeper Rewarded for Silent Dinners’, cioè la vicenda della cuoca di un eccentrico ricco signore a nome, non a caso, di George Wyndham Le Strange, cuoca che ricevette un’eredità di milioni di sterline perché lo strano signor Le Strange voleva godere della sua silenziosa compagnia durante i pasti.André Kertész: New York.
As capitalist consumerist ethics and technology-dulled sensory blight inexorably infect all regions and human terrains, and even the way we map those terrains, and even more so how we think about and conceive of mapping those terrains, I will retreat happily away into realms of pure words and sounds - where vestiges of humanity and imagination still thrive, like a hidden rainforest under the city, full of weird animal and vegetative life (memory, intimate experience, organic elision that also produces meaning ...) Rings of Saturn is a knee-high abyssal-emotional archive of everything we're losing, since we're tainted with annihilation the day we are born, cast out to glide in a forgetful stream, dreamwalking our way through thick, ancient time.
With poetry and pathos he narrates a wandering, but not random, series of extended meditations inspired by history and memory, local geography and phenomena, people he meets or sees on television, books he's read.
St Sebald, from whom the author's family name comesThere is a documentary called "Patience" based on or inspired by this book, I'll have to track it down.
I'm also interested in reading his poetry, as I very much liked Kay Ryan's poem inspired by this book.
The subjects of these digressions range from a straightforward history of a formerly glorious manor home he comes across on his first walk, a discussion of Joseph Conrad of Heart of Darkness fame, inspired by the tragic case of Roger Casement, the sad tale of formerly bustling, repeatedly washed out Dunwich, an isolated craftsman working on a famous, minute replica of the Temple at Jerusalem, a sketched portrait of Swinburne and tales of the last days of the Chinese empire.
(It often felt as if he included every possible tangent, but near the end he missed a trick by mentioning Rendlesham Forest's strangeness without going near the whole "British Roswell" business, which would have also connected perfectly with the abandoned defence works at Orfordness.)Though one feature of the war is retold inventively by a gardener, in that feature of Sebaldian style I'd shorthanded in my head as "said Austerlitz", and which a couple of days before writing this paragraph, I read Christopher Hitchens, in his introduction to an old edition of Rebecca West's Black Lamb and Grey Falcon - found in Arguably - delineate as long and quite grammatical addresses that would be unthinkable in real life...however, in a book the solilioquy is not to be despised as a means of elucidation.
La realtà parlaUn libro strano, difficile, faticoso e bellissimo: non solo parole, pensieri, riflessioni ma, per tenerci ancorati alla realtà, anche fotografie a formare un tutt’uno col testo. Sebald cammina, si guarda intorno, osserva, e ogni cosa su cui posa lo sguardo diventa spunto narrativo, colore, profumo, memoria, malinconia… la realtà prende vita sotto il suo sguardo, parla, si svela dentro una miriade di storie diverse, le più disparate e insolite, narrate minuziosamente o appena abbozzate.Temevo Sebald, ma sbagliavo. Dopo Walser ecco che ho trovato un altro “wanderer”, un compagno di cammino.https://youtu.be/obvUyE7DDVU
The article also mentioned an opera house dating from Litchfield's flush heyday, now being halfheartedly restored, and the meeting hall, now a museum, built by the local post of the Grand Army of the Republic, that once-vast fraternity of Union veterans.
Most G.A.R. posts were segregated, but the founder of Litchfield’s was a radical editor who had commanded a black regiment at the Battle of Nashville, and he welcomed a black veteran by the name of Van Spence, born a slave in Kentucky.
I hoped he wasn’t simply “our darkie.” The photographer of the veterans, a post member himself, enjoyed a local renown, and captured the town in the twilight of the nineteenth century.
We read of the narrator's perambulations around, through, along – but also simply ruminating on – places to be found mostly in Suffolk, the English county in that bumpy part sticking out on the east coast, up north of the Thames outlet.
Depicting neither place nor architectural wonder, but a mere patch of sky?On the next page our narrator is found comparing himself to "poor Gregor Samsa", that Gregor Samsa of a Kafka narrative (I know not which, perhaps you do?), viewing through the strange black netting covering the window "an utterly alien place", as if "I were looking down from a cliff upon a sea of stone or a field of rubble".
La navigazione è quella di Wells; il suo stazionare tra resti antichi, fortezze e bastioni, tra lande nebbiose e paesaggi lacustri, tra vite dimenticate anche se illustri, libri logori, in questo mausoleo di resti e memorie, che appaiono così lontani da noi nello spazio-tempo, è come il viaggio in carrozza di Flaubert, un prendersi una pausa rinfrancante, financo inammissibile nell’estuario inquieto e veloce della vita, una messa a fuoco di quello spettro che si aggira nell’arte e che è lo spettro dell’indeterminazione, è ammettere la possibilità che quelle cose dimenticate e per i più inutili perseguano «un palpabile progetto nei nostri confronti» (the palpable design upon us, come direbbe Keats), ci vogliano sorprendere con le loro alleanze segrete, con le loro rivelazioni inopportune.Ci sono corde che continuano a vibrare, come diceva Dante, anche dopo che le frecce hanno centrato il bersaglio (la saetta che nel segno /percuote pria che sia la corda queta).
E quem pode destruir um pedaço do seu coração?"Alexander SoljenítsinComo todo o leitor merece ler Os Anéis De Saturno e sei que palavras minhas não serão suficientes para vos fazer acreditar nele, transcrevo, do meu exemplar d'A Herança Perdida, alguns excertos (adaptados) do ensaio de James Wood, intitulado A Incerteza de W.
Não é bem ficção nem livro de viagens, mas é sempre absolutamente artístico."Os Anéis de Saturno é um livro (Sebald não gostava que chamassem romances aos seus livros) extraordinário sobre o Mal e o Bem. E com o qual se aprende muito sobre Literatura, Pintura, História e até sobre o arenque e os bichos da seda.
Ένα οδοιπορικό στην σύγχρονη νοτιοανατολική Αγγλία όπου η κάθε περιοχή, το κάθε ακρωτήριο, η κάθε πόλη και η κάθε έπαυλη κρύβει μια ιστορία από το παρελθόν την οποία ο Sebald ξετυλίγει αριστοτεχνικά με μια γήινη, απαλή και ζεστή γραφή που μαλακώνει την ψυχή.
Η κάθε ιστορία είναι ένα ταξίδι στον χρόνο αλλά και στον χώρο όπου μεταφερόμαστε από την Αγγλία σε άλλες ευρωπαϊκές χώρες και μέχρι την μακρινή Κίνα και το Κονγκό του 19ου αιώνα.Μελαγχολία, νοσταλγία, ματαίωση προσδοκιών, το εφήμερο και προσωρινό στοιχείο της ζωής, οι αντιφάσεις της ανθρώπινης φύσης όπου η δημιουργία και ο εξευγενισμός συμβαδίζουν με την καταστροφή και αγριότητα, όλα διαπερνούν ολόκληρο το έργο μαζί με τις ολοζώντανες και εκπληκτικής ομορφιάς περιγραφές της φύσης και των φυσικών φαινομένων.
RINGS stands as the peak of Sebald's inspired sequence of anti-narratives (a sustained late-in-life aria that ended w/ a car crash on the cusp of the new millennium) out-doing even his earlier theme-&-variations on the Holocaust, THE EMIGRANTS.
Blithely these RINGS loop through episodes of efflorescence & decay, from once-exotic resort towns to the boom & bust of the herring industry -- & much more, much -- & yet Sebald's framework locates this serendipity cheek by jowl, the wildly diverse forever physically close.
The genius of Sebald is to expose all our vanity & failure, w/ a level voice & a cold eye, while at the same time restoring us, dizzied & bareheaded in open country, to awe.
It feels like those days of fever when you listen to the radio and drift off in between times, re-awakening to find that the documentary you were listening to has turned into a play, the biography is now a news programme, Start the Week has segued into satire.
In Austerlitz, there was a slightly more traditional type of narrative in the story of Jacques Austerlitz, but the Rings of Saturn is a journey, a physical journey along the coast of Suffolk, yes, but more a mental journey, the vagaries of the mind.

Il coraggio che non ho“Ho camminato per quasi quattro ore e non ho visto altro, sino alla linea dell'orizzonte, che campi di grano tutti già mietuti, ho visto il cielo, carico di nuvole basse, e le fattorie, a due o tre miglia di distanza l'una dall'altra, per lo più circondate da un'aureola di alberi.
A tratti, durante quella giornata – nel mio ricordo ora pesante come il piombo ora d'una leggerezza quasi impalpabile – si apriva un piccolo squarcio attraverso la coltre di nuvole”.Sotto il segno della malinconia si svolge il viaggio solitario, estivo e nomade, per le terre del Suffolk, East Anglia, dove Sebald trascorse gran parte della sua esistenza, prima della tragica e casuale fine.
Some readers might value oblique reminders that the holocaust and Luftkrieg took place, but I suspect that anyone who gets something from the content of Sebald's work has something else in mind: its comfortable pessimism.
But we can think about that spot at great length, at least, and thus face up to the abyss that we have created twice over--once in that the cost of our comfort is actual suffering for the poor, and second in that the 'despair' Sebald writes of is just self-aggrandizing melancholy masquerading as deep insight, the kind of insight that greatly appeals to readers of literature.
Despite my complaints, I did enjoy the book, and am interested in reading more of Sebald to see if his other novels have anything different to offer.
The very nature of the category (in my mind) is that it rides that fine line between "boring" and "interesting" so dangerously.I think the boring-ness makes your mind wander which is exactly the point: so that you're paying less attention to the "main thing" and more on the visceral level of the word (or image if you're talking about film).
A new iphone beckons with Words with Friends, but it refuses to give me 'airshow' as a word and nevertheless allows 'haha' for my cross-country opponent.So maybe it was the wrong time to take a walking tour of England in W.G. Sebald's "mind's eye." A peculiar numbness?
From here to there with meditations of landscapes and seascapes and burned out buildings and unrequited love.Which is to say that my mind constantly wandered in the pages-long paragraphs, despite gems like "Not even Coleridge, in an opium dream..." and a stuffed polar bear who was "a ghost bowed by sorrows." Yet Sebald could write, "I do not see a single human being...." in this ethereal walk.
I read this twice, seperated by a most important decade. The second reading was in the early days of our new house. Terms like haunted are often misused, but there is a sense that Sebald elevates the ghosts of maladaption and legacy to a momentary viewing, however stilted. New homes and a safely surveyed life often prove to be mixed wagers. Sebald grounds one in the quotidian. Even as he unnerves with a passing query, a nagging thorn of dissociation. Commerce and legacy are tainted. The inheritors bear the mark. As readers we remain cursed. So be it.
To be perfectly honest, I've never read anything quite like it.The book consists of a walk along the Suffolk coast of England, and the many observations that the unnamed narrator makes on his journey.
This leads to an account of the life of Joseph Conrad (a close friend of Casement's) who it turns out, spent many years in Lowestoft, which is also a stopping point on this walking trail.
Some of its observations fascinated me, like the strange, sad life of the the poet Edward Fitzgerald, and the history of the once-great Somerleyton house.
I’m attempting something new: a real-time review, folks!
I’m recording my thoughts as I move along this gorgeous book.
Only 20-pages in, I’m captivated by the clarity of the labyrinthine sentences.
This is lovely.Page 42: Still flawlessly written, if gyratory.Page 117: These chapters are concentric circles.Page 210: I’m hard-pressed to find many analogues thatZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZPage 210.5: Sorry, I feel asleep mid-sentence.
But I gave Sebald an impossible task by reading this after two consecutive Ballard’s and an Ishmael Fucking Reed.
Sebald è ipnotico. Da una riflessione banale su di un canneto arriviamo alla vita di Conrad, ai massacri cinesi, alle rovine di possidenti inglesi, alla letteratura piu' alta. Con un tono che raramente ho sentito più gentile, e colto, e raffinato, conduce in una avventura peripatetica che potrebbe durare giorni e giorni senza provare fatica. In mezzo a questo, il senso della naturale distruzione dell'umanità, che non potrebbe essere più lieve ed ovvio. Sopra tutto, una intelligenza inquieta e profonda, con una capacità didattica unica.
Sebald, who is and isn't the narrator of the memory trek called The Rings of Saturn, early on describes the contemplative methodology of the seventeenth century (meta)physician Sir Thomas Browne: he therefore sought to look upon earthly existence, from the things that were closest to him to the spheres of the universe, with the eye of an outsider, one might even say of the creator.
Laid low by the pungent display of history's recollection, stirring the embers of that memory appears to be the only avenue of escape from his disordered condition.The Rings of Saturn is a slow-burn blues, a measured, steady voyage across the shimmering steppe of fiction and non-fiction.
And indeed, so to this day one sees in Belgium a distinctive ugliness, dating from the time the Congo colony was exploited, [.....]manifested in the macabre atmosphere of certain salons and the stunted growth of the population, such as one rarely comes across elsewhere.
And so on.And I am sitting, nodding wisely, oohing and aahing at all this wanton destruction when I come across a little ditty: Sebald is resting on a Dutch beach, half delirious with tiredness from all his walking about, when he realises in a moment of ‘suspended’ consciousness that he can understand every word the locals are saying about him.
His points regarding the slipperiness of memory, the significance of dreams, and the strangeness of 'chance happenings' and 'the ghosts of repetition' were also not lost on me.
No matter how often I tell myself that chance happenings of this kind occur far more often than we suspect, since we all move, one after the other, along the same roads mapped out for us by our origins and our hopes, my rational mind is nonetheless unable to lay the ghosts of repetition that haunt me with ever greater frequency.
Long lists of catalogued exotica (here I am reminded very sharply of Eliot Weinberger’s An Elemental Thing, and not just here) combine with this compression to require a slow reading, a savouring of the sensuous surfaces of life, and function with other devices to mourn, if ironically, the attempts to overcome time and death (Umberto Eco has written that we love lists because we fear death, and our possessions perhaps, ideational or material, are like those ordering lists that can be classified and set into quasi-permanence) yet in reality, as far as we can know some stable underlying reality, Just as people supposed they could uphold some straight line, some dramatic and unexpected deterioration would compel them….to the last post, prisoners in their own homes.
What a strange yet sublime work.
The interesting thing about the paradox that I find at the heart of The Rings of Saturn- Sebald is traveling among otherness throughout the text, buildings (Peto’s magisterial hall, the Reading Room, etc) and geographical places and all of them are foreign to him in some way, and yet- he is comprised of nothing else.
What I interpret Beck to be pointing to when he includes “the otherness of the object” as an internal dimension of cosmopolitanism (18) is that even when Sebald fills his text (and, given the structure of The Rings of Saturn, his narrative consciousness as well) with these objects he understands profoundly that he cannot overtly editorialize on them, he cannot truly have a space for critique because they are inherently foreign to him, inaccessible, neither made nor owned by him.
'The Rings of Saturn' is a book that stays with you.
In taking what seems to be a meandering walking holiday in East Anglia, the author describes places and people that have now faded into obscurity, but held great importance in their day.
From the town that literally fell into the sea, to the great dreams and schemes that have been lost to history, Sebald describes the contexts for that which we do remember.
Overall I would describe 'The Rings of Saturn' as a rich and deeply moving masterpiece of modern literature.
I went through it slowly at first, but it is oddly exciting for something that is essentially a combination of linked essays, long walks, and landscape descriptions.
But: great essays, great walks, and great landscape descriptions.
There are a few sections - Holderlin, the dilapidated Irish manor, Conrad - that will stick with me.Now, this is difficult to rate because it's not really LIKE anything else.
But when it's right, it puts you in a rare dreamy mood.Speaking of which, I find dreams difficult to read about and the book turns to them too often.
Το πρώτο βιβλίο του Sebald που διάβασα, η γνωριμία μου μαζί του, ήταν σαν να άνοιξε μια πόρτα και μπήκα σέναν άλλο κόσμο. Πώς υπήρχαν τόσα χρόνια τα βιβλία του στα ελληνικά και δεν τον ήξερα; Τον βάζω στους 5 πιο αγαπημένους μου συγγραφείς για τον τρόπο που σκέφτεται και τον τρόπο που γράφει.
Το πρώτο βιβλίο του Sebald που διάβασα, η γνωριμία μου μαζί του, ήταν σαν να άνοιξε μια πόρτα και μπήκα σ΄έναν άλλο κόσμο. Πώς υπήρχαν τόσα χρόνια τα βιβλία του στα ελληνικά και δεν τον ήξερα; Τον βάζω στους 5 πιο αγαπημένους μου συγγραφείς για τον τρόπο που σκέφτεται και τον τρόπο που γράφει.
But the book had much in store for me - history, biography, literary criticism, art criticism, science, photography, natural history, etc.Later I found that this book is normally defined as: Combining the details of a walking tour with meditations prompted by places and people encountered on that tour, The Rings of Saturn was called "a hybrid of a book--fiction, travel, biography, myth, and memoir" (Thanks Wikipedia).What is the book About?As stated earlier, it is "a hybrid of a book" combining many genres.
Still most of the essays are weaved around some recurring themes, such as History, Memory, Destruction and The Transience of human nature.What is history?Sebald writes: 1."...history, which is but a long account of calamities," (Page.
Ambling along England’s eastern Suffolk coast, Sebald wanders from inward reverie through outward reverie exploring any and all directions connected to the landscape traversed.
Part travelogue, part historical meditation, part (non?-) fictional memoir.
The carefully researched historical vignettes interweave with eloquent reflections of a personal nature.
Dreams, war, history and disappointment all bleed into each other, painting a compellingly strange landscape that is both bleak and beautiful.
And all the while, walking along the desolate coast with Sebald, engrossed in his fluid prose, I couldn’t help from being reminded of James Joyce’s famous quote: History is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.
Winfried intanto ci racconta paesaggi, persone ed eventi, come una battaglia navale che si svolse nella baia alla quale siamo arrivati, la flotta olandese che esce inattesa dalla nebbia.
Durante il viaggio ci fermiamo sempre in nuovi alberghi, belli o fatiscenti e visitiamo ville un tempo famose e parchi che sono felicemente sopravvissuti alle dimore.
Non ho condiviso con lui l’attitudine romantica a cogliere ed amare soprattutto il declino delle cose., “il lento avvitarsi del mondo nell’oscurità”, la visionarietà che gli fa trasfigurare la progressione della notte sul globo come “una successione ininterrotta di corpi distesi, come buttati giù e mietuti dalla falce di Saturno”.
sebald bütün dünyayı, dünyadaki her şeyi anlatmak için yazmış sanki.
her şeyi olabilecek en kısa ve en hızlı biçimde ortaya koymanın yollarını aramış.
bunun için edebiyatın imkanlarını zorlamış, geçmişle geleceği, gerçekle kurmacayı iç içe geçirmiş, metinler arasında, disiplinler arasında gidip gelmiş.
nihayetinde hatırlayıp hatırlatarak, bilgilendirerek ve hayal ederek ortaya koyduğu karışımın/toplamın "roman" çatısında toplanması, roman için yeni bir tanım ve anlam demek.
sebald'in hep vurgulanan özgünlüğü, gücü bu zaten.
okur tarafını ise, klişe olmakla birlikte, özellikle bu roman için "yolculuk" olarak ifade etmek mümkün.
edebiyat okuru olarak kitap bittiğindeki his, iyi bir roman okumuş olma hazzı değil, bir tür deneyim ve tanıklık hissi.
"Gli anelli di Saturno" di W.
Sebald in questo libro del 1995 racconta di un suo viaggio (o pellegrinaggio in Inghilterra, come lo chiama nel sottotitolo) nel Suffolk, Inghilterra orientale fatto alcuni anni prima e ogni pagine, ogni frase è ricca di ricordi, assonanze, rimandi ad una serie di notizie concetti culturali e sociali che affascinano.
Ricco di illustrazioni che completano il testo, questo lavoro del letterato tedesco, più volte candidato al Nobel, più che un romanzo è un atlante di cultura europea, denso di fascinazioni e di passaggi deliziosi.
Our real protagonist isn't so much our traveler as Europe, and really any civilization that committed piles of atrocities in the name of pursuing some great "destiny," so you could easily apply that to the United States, Nanking-era Japan, the beat goes on.
Sebald, though, gets the bonus effect of smashing to bits our idea of Europe as the height of civilization, starting with a discussion of Rembrandt's Anatomy Lesson (a nice art-violence juxtaposition; here's where I was most affected by Sebald's love of working in pictures), and ending with the horrors of the Holocaust, portrayed here not directly but through a sleight-of-hand that makes them ever more haunting.
Probably his most known work, Sebald’s The Ring of Saturn shows a mixture of scholarly writing and descriptive photography with a lexicon of words that may seem a bit verbose or may be described as loquacious in nature and is not for the most casual reader; it takes an amount of focus on what is being said and how our nameless narrator’s portrayal of history of past and present in reference to its corresponding areas as he travels by foot mostly (except on certain occasions by truck or bus), on the southeast Anglican coast of Suffolk from Lowestoft to Southwold to Dunwich to Orford and then back through the countrysides of Woodbridge, Yoxford, Harleston, Bungay, Ditchingham and Norwich.
G. Sebald writes:In order to pre-empt any petitions for pardon that might have been made by persons of influence, excerpts from what was known as the Black Diary, a kind of chronicle of the accused’s homosexual relations found when Casement’s home was searched, were forwarded to the King of England, the President of the United States, and the Pope.
In The Rings of Saturn, Sebald’s narrator is in this respect nothing like Thomas Bernhard’s narrators, whom Bernhard is at pains to make seem near-lunatic themselves.
Given the gushing responses by many whose tastes I respect I will probably try to read Sebald again, but it may take a while.[2017: I now believe it was Austerlitz, not The Rings of Saturn, that reminded me so strongly of Thomas Bernhard.
“Every time I decipher one of these entries I am astounded that a trail that has long since vanished from the air or the water remains visible here on paper” (93).Thus, writing gives life to the past and meaning to the present; in writing we remember; in writing we survive; in writing, perhaps we can step out of the darkness of history.
The rings of Saturn were once large moons in orbit, but through time and great destruction they’ve been reduced to an ephemeral dust — something tragic, something whose trace haunts the present with its reminder of the past — yet it’s beautiful.And that’s one of the best ways I can think of to describe this book — tragic, yet beautiful.
sebald, un autor de cărți cult am decis să recitesc câteva cărți ale autorilor contemporani favoriți - așa că, după 2 ani de la apariție, am recitit a doua carte tradusă din opera autorului german winfried georg sebald - autor cult pentru conaisseuri livrești.asta după citisem prin 2010 - ȘOCAT!
- capodopera sa, austerlitz, despre care am scris imediat entuziast aici.sebald atrage cititorul în pânza de păianjen a poveștii autobiografice.
apoi începe să te înfășoare cu alte povești enciclopedice, în mare parte absente din orice dicționar și din orice carte de popularizare.te mai hipnotizează apoi cu fotografii ale locurilor despre care povestește și cucerirea-i gata...mai mult http://chestiilivresti.blogspot.ro/20...
De uitzending gisteren eindigde met de opmerking van zanger-tekstschrijver Frank Vander linden dat de fragmenten die hij had uitgekozen allen bleken te gaan over het vastleggen van iets.
Vaak weten we zelf niet meer waarom we dit hebben opgezocht en dat hebben opgeslagen, en waarom net daar.
De schrijver had wat ideeën en ging wandelen om het boek tot zich te laten komen.Nick Cave, iemand die heel veel schrijft, heeft daar iets moois over gezegd, zegt de tafelgast in het loop van het gesprek.
Maar als je over kiekenstront schrijft en je doet dat goed, dan zal het automatisch over eeuwigheid, geschiedenis, dood en liefde met grote letters gaan.
At this juncture, Sebald will insert text into the quotation that alerts the reader to the dislocation of the personal pronoun, as I did two paragraphs above.I had determined that I would use this technique to incorporate some of Sebald’s own book into the commentary on a meme that refers to Sir Thomas Browne, who himself is the subject of some of Sebald’s reflections and whose own spirit evidently infuses his work.How thrilled I was, then, when a friend and student, Ted Locke, suggested that I read a paper by the literary scholar Jane Tompkins called “Me and My Shadow.” Ted and I have discussed auto-theory off and on for over a year.
