https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120991.The_Only_Astrology_Book_You_ll_Ever_Need
Beginning with the Sun signs and moving on through the remaining planets, as well as more obscure influences such as the Ascendant, Moon signs, Decanates and Cusps of each sign, the book is well thought out and the information presented in a logical and orderly manner In addition the author explains the steps necessary to erect a chart in simple terms.Without including any un-necessary information Woolfolk includes everything that you need to get a decent idea of what each element in your chart means and provides an accurate method of putting all this information together in an easy to understand format.
The title of this book could not be truer!
I had the original purple first edition when I was only a teenager in high school, casting birth charts for all of my friends who thought this was so cool.
I didn't even realize until many years later just how much more I knew about astrology than the average person, as result of reading this book.In 2003 I moved into an apartment and in 2004 I moved out.
At some point in all that ruckus I lost my book.
This book is so useful, so valuable, and so essential that I bought it a second time, the updated blue cover with the additional CD.
This book is AMAZING! I use it as a reference ALL THE TIME! I wish it came in pocket size (lol!) As a wanna be astrologer I find this information to be incredibly helpful and most importantly incredibly accurate. It has helped me better understand the basics of astrology and I'm not able to put together basic birth charts for friends and family with ease.
When I started studying astrology, this was the first book I read. Very comprehensive but simply written and great for beginners who are just figuring out what sign their moon is in. The charts in the book are not always going to be the best indicator for planetary placements, so it's best to go to a site such as astro.com or astrology.com to get your natal chart. Then you can use the book to help you figure what all those planets mean.
yes , it was truly complete . although birth chart part was a little complicated for me .i liked it but not as much as love sign by Linda goodman . and of course it didn't contain Chinese astrology
The only Astrology Book you'll Ever NeedBy, Joanna Martine Woolfolk ...I am done from reading this book but to be honest I didn't read everything because some of the things I need to have another book to go into details....This book is a big help when you need to know about Planet, houses, zodiacs and even how to read your #BirthChart...The best thing about it is that the writer went into a lot of details to get it right and surely she made it interesting...If you're a beginner like me then this is the book to start with .
This book was really what the title stated....the only astrology book you will ever need.
It goes into every aspect of astrology, (sun signs, moon signs, ascendant signs); categories often overlooked, but equally as important as the sun signs.
"The Sun sign is the part of you that is most apparent on the surface; it is what others see.
The Moonsign is the part of you that you see.Your Ascendant is the sign that reﬂects your outward demeanor and to a great extent determines how the outside world looks at you." Great read and book to return to often!
Despite the book’s title, definitely not the only astrology book you’ll ever need, especially if you’re interested in deeper insights on one’s chart.
As the author herself said, no book could ever be packed with all the information on astrology, but this one includes important info for those starting out, such as those regarding Sun, Rising and Moon signs.
I feel as more space should have been given to aspects as they are the most important part for understanding the person’s chart and less space should have been given to tables with planetary positions as that can be easily googled nowadays.
Ms. Woolfolk's book was extremely helpful in learning about astrology and producing my own birth chart. Also, the information given on each category of the subject was insightful. This book is definately the only astrology book I'll ever need (not). Thanks Ms. Woolfolk
This book is sooo worth purchasing if you’re looking to expand your knowledge on Astrology & all things related! Definitely user friendly & an easy guide through all the signs. I use this reference book daily!
Very interesting read. If you're looking for your first ever astrology book; look no furthur.
the book gives a detailed description of each sign and their history.
the sections include: Sun sign astrology, Less well-known influences, Understanding astrology, Astrology in history and legend, Astrology in our time, An astrologers lexicon and Astrology tables for the years.
also in all of this information it also teaches you how to create your own calender's and understand your sign.
this book has helped me understand a lot more about my sign and about myself.
because this book is all information it is a lot to take in.
the book definitely lives up to its name.
It really IS the only astrology book you'll ever need.
I found a site through astrology.about.com and did my birth chart and with the help of this book was able to learn a lot about my personality.
I even got a lot of my friends on twitter to do theirs.
What I enjoyed the most was the descriptions of all the signs (Rising, Sun, Moon) and how they should be read and then each of the planets and their significance.
If you enjoy astrology, I highly recommend it!
I love this book. It's a great reference for your astrological signs. You learn your sun sign, your moon sign, your planet, your cusps, your decanets (sp?) your houses, etc. You can even create a whole chart for yourself! This book is recommended for all to have in their library.
I used to own this book. I had so much fun with it because you really could make a chart with it! If anyone is interested in astrology this would be a must-have.
This book used to be my bible.... until I denounced paranormal phenomenon as a means to base my life.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature.
Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.Like televangelists, and snake-oil salesman, these publishers prey on the vulnerable.
To quote Holden from Chasing Amy, "Over- or underweight [people] who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter."Though a copypasta of it, these books never tell you about hermeticism.
Having worked in this field, including sales of these exact books, I can tell you...
Let me paint you a little picture.I (Taurus) was entertaining family for the weekend~ my mother and sister (Scorpio and Libra) were kind enough to come and see the play I performed in and after a fun-filled day about town, they settled down as I opened this tome and read them their secrets.
They giggled and nodded as I read an overview of their signs~ roaring laughter ensued as they heard about the roles they take in relationships~ it was all so true.
As an artist and performer, I lead a delightfully creative and expressive life and I enjoyed relating to the creative and powerful, yet gentle, Taurus way.
As many other reviewers have pointed out, this is not the only astrology book that you will ever need, but it is a good start.
From my experiences as a very novice astrologer, this book was very helpful on getting a good grip of the signs, houses, and planets.
Astrology, as I am quickly learning, is an intuitive art, but Woolfolk's method of reading a chart seems very much plug and chug, using generic statements for the planets in signs and planets in houses, and then asking the reader to cross list them.
Very little time is spent on aspects.
The information about the signs isn't very in depth (a few pages on basic description, love interests, body, etc.) and a lot of it is to do with other aspects such as natal charts, history, ascendants, moons, etc.I was interested in learning about natal charts, but I remember that section of the book was a bit confusing and there wasn't enough information to know how to actually apply it to your own (you basically need to hire an astrologer for that lol).
There was like a 5-page detailed report on Oprah's chart but it didn't properly explain how to do your own!To get 5 stars I wish the book would have talked more about the signs and better explained how to read/make your own natal chart.Overall it was a big but worthwhile read.
I truly agree with the title: with detailed descriptions of how to draw up your own charts, descriptions of every planet in your chart, descriptions for every house and charts to tell you were everything was, you can truly to everything with this book.
The only downside is the size: it is great if you are drawing up charts for your friends (as I was in high school) but it is an awful waste of space if you are only concerned with yourself.
Terribly disappointed that it is out of print and I have not been able to replace my mother's copy.
This is a good book for beginners to absorb some of the terminology used in astrology and to understand the nature of various zodiac signs.
I found the section that combines all the information to understand the horoscope on a composite basis to be too brief and weak.
In other words, the book does a good job of explaining what the position of each planet in each house and with each sign does on a standalone basis but fails to detail how to interpret the interaction of various planets with each other, which is really what reading the horoscope is all about.
There was a ton of great info in here, but it kept talking about creating your own chart online and had NO information on how to find it! There was no link or anything that would direct you to this chart creator. I googled myself to see what I could find, and the hits were really vague and confusing. I loved what I learned from this book, but it would have been nice to actually have my chart made after it was suggested so many times!
I've had this book for over three (3) decades. I'm sure it's been updated but I still use this one. (The front cover on this edition is a plain front in two panels. The panel closest to the spine (that wraps around the spine) is a dark blue color and covers about one-fifth of the front cover. The remainder is a dark butternut squash color.)
A good book. I needed this for a class and found the reading easily absorbed. Her style is relatable and she provided examples of popular personalities that make you feel like you can see how the layers of zodiac attributes combine to develop more understanding. It is full of information. I didn't use the CD and wonder if I would have liked that more.
Wasn’t really into astrology prior to reading this book. After finding out the various aspects of western astrology, it is uncanny how well some of these signs portray myself and others I know. Easy read and interesting
Wouldn't say its the only book you'll ever need. Good for beginners & refference. Barely anything on aspects which was kinda annoying for me because i feel like thats the most important part of my own chart
Very easy to understand for the beginner. Insists on a lot of strictly two-gendered stuff (which is very common in astrology) and barely acknowledges same-sex relationships, so that's why it's not 5 stars.
I love the artwork on the cover! and my favorite part is some of the sign comparison to the famous. Check out scorpio. ;)
I absolutely love this book. It is the best book ever!!
