https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/507221.Language_and_Myth
فصياغة مفهوم عام تفترض وجود خواص محددة، وبفضل تلك الخصائص الثابتة يمكننا معرفة؛ ما إذا كانت الأشياء متشابهة أم متباينة، متطابقة أم غير متطابقة؛ وهنا يتساءل كاسيرر: كيف تستطيع هذه الفروق أن توجد قبل اللغة، ألسنا بالأحرى لا ندركها إلا من خلال اللغة، عن طريق التسمية؟يفترض كاسيرر أنه من دون تحديد لشكل المفاهيم اللغوية الأولية وميزتها، لا يمكننا تطوير نظرية منطقية خالصة عن التصور، لأن جميع مفاهيم المعرفة النظرية تُشكّل مجرد طبقة عليا من المنطق تقوم على طبقة سفلى؛ وهي مفاهيم منطق اللغة، فقبل الشروع بالعمل العقلي في إدراك الظواهر وفهمها، لا بدّ أن يكون عمل التسمية قد سبقه، لأن هذه العملية تُحوّل عالم الانطباع الحسي، والذي تمتلكه الحيوانات أيضًا، إلى عالم عقلي، أي عالم من الأفكار والمعاني.وبدلًا من مقارنة الأشكال اللغوية الأساسية بأشكال التصور المنطقي، يتم مقارنتها بأشكال التخيّل الأسطوري، فالتصور اللغوي والأسطوري يُجمعان في مقولة واحدة تقابل شكل الفكر المنطقي، والذي هو على النقيض منهما.
You know that colony of people in Ray Bradbury's novel Fahrenheit 451 who commit books to memory in order to save them from a culture of book burning? Well, if such a thing were to ever come about in reality and I was the one to get saddled with this thing, you can kiss it goodbye; what's more, I doubt anyone would notice its absence.
فهو يعتمد على رأي أوسنر، في بحثه الفيلولوجي عن جذور اشتقاق أسماء الآلهة، أن الشرط الضروري لتكوين الهة شخصية هو عملية لغوية – تاريخية.قبل الشروع بالعمل العقلي المنطقي في إدراك الظواهر وفهمها، لابد من أن يكون عمل التسميه قد سبقه، حتتي تتكون مفاهيم الموضوعات المنطقية التي تنقل عالم الحس إلى عالم الفكر.
فما أن يتم تصوير إله خاص من البداية حتى يطوق باسم خاص وهذا الاسم لابد وأن يكون مشتقا من الفاعلية الخاصة التي تسببت بإحداث ذلك الإله (مضمون التجربة كالظواهر الطبيعية) ومادام هذا الاسم يفهم ويؤخذ بمعناه الأصلي فإن حدود معناه هي حدود قوى الإله.
Its a pretty tough subject matter, if you really want to understand it. I read the whole book about 3 times and parts of it 10 times, and I still conflused. I did make one very important connection tough- words are gods. Doesn't the bible say: "In the beginning there was the word, and the word was God?" Anyways, I think its pretty cool how he derives the two from the same source- sensory impression. Even though I'm still trying to come to grips with its derivaiton and consequences. I would highly recommend this book if you're unhappy.
This books is a compilation of six essays which explain what religion is at it's base level and the relationship between Metaphor and Language.
This is currently my bathroom reading.
Cassirer insists that,"Theoretical, practical, and aesthetic consciousness, the world of language and morality, the basic forms of community and the state—they are all originally tied up with mythico-religious conceptions.
Still, mythic and discursive conceptions, while undoubtedly distinct, share a similar creative impulse in that,"Language and myth stand in an original and indissoluble correlation with one another, from which they both emerge but gradually as independent elements.
In the discursive conception, we come to regard art as a separate arena from 'life'.
This book is an collection of six essays from Ernst Cassirer translated by Susanne Langer, originally published in 1946.
The essays that stand out for me are "The Successive Phases of Religious Thought" which attempts to excavate just that and it really does feel a bit archeological as it moves toward the dawning of religious sentiment.
In fact, as a religious naturalist, I found this chapter relevant for those of us who reject supernaturalism as Cassirer devotes much time to exploring the origination of the concept of "supernatural power." The other chapter I found most interesting is "Word Magic" and it is here where his argument for the "original bond between the linguistic and the mythico-religious consciousness" is most clearly enunciated.Definitely for those who already have a strong interest in this topic and as such a kind of "specialist" book.
This book was assigned for one of my first courses at Union Theological Seminary: Philosophical Method & Its Relationship to Theological Inquiry, taught by Dr. Smith during the first semester of 1974/75.
A little overview (translated by aesthetician Suzanne K. Langer) of the position Cassirer works out in his multi-volume "Philosophy of Symbolic Forms". A sentimental favorite.
it's a pain to read if you're not used to philosophical text (aka me), but if you can get through the writing, Ernst presents a lot of interesting evidence to back up his claims
"كما أن الكلمة هي الأولى في الأصل، فهي الأسمى في القوة. وغالبًا ما تكون اسم الإله، وليس الإله نفسه، ولهذا تبدو المصدر الحقيقي للفاعلية".
Its a very Eurocentric both Grecoroman and Judaic/Christian perspective on religion and spirituality. For Agnostic atheist sense of spirituality and enlightenment from Buddhist, Hindu perspective, this book is not very relevant. It is beyond Cassirer to imagine God as a experience rather than just a belief, and he certainly does not mention the mystic tradition and their view of spirituality. It is also a drag to read.
Cassirer caught my attention when I was in my thirties because of his theories of language and religion. I collected his essays for a while than deemed them for a sale-off in unemployed times. Now I pick up an essay here and there and re-read him. This piece feels a little like the translator was a bit exuberant but it does put forth is ideas about the flaws and holes of the symbols in language that also produce meaning. That strikes me very contemplative.
I read this in college years ago, and was fascinated. I decided its's time to reread it, Still have the yellowing paperback, but just got the Kindle version for convenience.
این کتاب را محسن ثلاثی به فارسی برگردانده و توسط نشر نقره در 1366 چاپ و منتشر شده است
Worthwhile.
One of thos eyeopeners
Very interesting...
If you are a writer, I think you should read this book.
Perceptive, though Cassirer was not a Christian (as far as I know).
هناك مشكلة في هذا الكتاب، لكن لا أستطيع تحديدها. على الأغلب الخلل في الترجمة. بشكل عام الكتاب جيد يسرد أمثلة حول ارتباط اللغة بالأساطير الدينية. ويحاول طرح أسئلة حولها.
