https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13039.Clea
Darley has been living on a Greek island looking after Melissa’s daughter (with Nessim).
Darley returns to Alexandria, reuniting Nessim with his daughter.
It is Clea and her relationship with Darley that takes centre stage.
The Quartet seems to hang together as a result of this novel and the prose is still wonderful.
All of the main participants take some sort of bow.Durrell indulges himself in all sorts of meditations covering art, the novel and creativity, set within the outstanding writing and the Freudian allusions.
The Quartet is a great achievement and the prose so beautiful it defies description.
"Para alguns, entre nós, o implacável dia chegaDa grande escolha, da grande decisão De dizer Sim ou Não.Aquele que em si sentir a sede de afirmarPronuncie-se sem demora.Os caminhos da vida abrir-se-ão para eleNuma cornucópia de benesses.Mas o outro, o que nega,Ninguém o poderá acusar de falsidade,E repetirá cada vez mais alto a sua descrença.Está no seu direito — e, contudo, esta pequena diferença.Um "Não" por um "Sim" — afunda uma vida inteira."Konstandinos KavafisQuem pretender ler algo sobre O Quarteto de Alexandria, de Lawrence Durrell, pesquise outras opiniões que, por aqui, foram publicadas e não perca tempo a ler o que se segue, pois se trata de pouco mais que devaneios meus...Fica a sugestão.
مدينه صبغت الغريب بصبغتها ووضعت بصمتها على من يعيش فيها حتى لو غريب عنها.الممتع فى هذه الرباعيه هى الشخصيات بصراحه (وخاصة الشخصيات الرئيسه) :فمن خلال هذه الشخصيات قدم لنا : المشاعر المختلفه (حب وكره واحترام واحتقار) وقدم لنا الغرائز من جنس وحب قوة وحب سلطه مُمثله فى شخصياته.عمل عظيم (بل مشروع عظيم) .أكثر عمل أعجبنى هو هذاالجزء : (كلِيا) : فقد قدم لنا الأنثى بسحرها وغموضها وإثارتها وثورتها .
This Precious Image"Mountolive", the third volume in  "The Alexandria Quartet",  initially alienated me, but totally turned me around."Clea" started in the same manner, but more patient this time, I let it work its magic. It fell into place much more quickly, and the rewards came sooner as well.Initially, I wondered whether it might be a grab bag of ideas and impressions stitched together as an afterthought to what might otherwise have constituted a trilogy.Even if it had been conceived of as a

Will review tomorrow.
Alexandria itself is as much a state of mind as a geographical location.The middle portion of the novel is an extended portion of the deceased Pursewarden’s journal, a portion addressed to Darley himself that Darley is given by Clea to read.
This fourth volume of the Quartet contains some of the loveliest and most poignant love prose that I have ever read, the relationship of Clea and Darley, with all of its moods and fluctuations, being painted with exquisite delicacy, very moving.The Alexandria Quartet is one of the most beautiful and haunting works of fiction that I have encountered.
After an absence of 7 years or so we return to Alexandria during the last year of WWII with the reliable Darley as narrator.
It seems that Durrell actually intends to give us some resolution to this multi-faceted story, so we revisit the same cast of characters, some now dead, some forever altered ..it's difficult to even conjure up the first impressions I had of this exotic bunch.Of course, the emotional thrust of the story revolves around Clea, someone that we've only met obliquely in the earlier books.
But then again, Darley doesn't always get things right, and he's not even convinced that he is a worthy writer.
I've quoted from the other three, so here's a bit of Clea: "A phrase of Pursewarden's came into my mind as I softly closed the door of the ward.
I don't love, or even like, Elizabeth Gilbert, but I read a quote of hers a bit ago about listening in a college freshman English class to some dude saying how Harper Lee was a one-hit-wonder.
And how ludicrous that is to say about someone who wrote a definitive (perhaps the definitive) novel on racism in America.
I don't care if he wrote another damn word, because the Quartet is a masterpiece.
Sadly, I have come to the end of The Alexandria Quartet*.
It has been a revelatory reading experience and I now see why this dated collection is still read, praised, even loved.I found Clea the weakest of the four, perhaps because Durrell is winding down, as is the historic city of Alexandria.
In his inimitable way, Durrell infuses all of this into a sad farewell.Clea, who had always been a shadowy presence in the earlier novels, now has her day.
He is older and wiser now, but Clea is wiser still.The End.*The Books of the Alexandria Quartet:Justine, Balthazar, Mountolive, Clea
and now, in Clea, Durrell returns to Alexandria and to a tighter focus on two lovers, but views them from the irremediable perspective of time.That recurring word, "irremediable," seems to set the key note—the events of the earlier books have receded inexorably into the past.
Like all young men I set out to be a genius, but mercifully laughter intervened.Wow, I didn't expect such a sudden dislike. Allow me to retreat to my hutch to scratch together a review.
نعود للتساؤل هل حقا كان هناك تعايش بالإسكندرية؟ أم هو تعايش منقوص فقط بين الأجانب مهما كان مستواهم الاجتماعي"يكفى فقط أن تحمل جنسية أى بلد ذات نفوذ" والمصريين الأرستقراطيين، لكننا نجد الفقراء من أهل البلد لا يتواجدوا سوى بالأحياء الفقيرة ولاعمل لهم سوى الدعارة والتسول، هل تلك هى الصورة الحقيقية لما كان عليه المجتمع السكندرى وقتها، أم تلك هى نظرة لورانس داريل نفسه؟ وبعيدا عن عائلة حصنانى القبطية وجوستين اليهودية لا يوجد تواجد حقيقى للمصريين.
يا عمّى يا ابو الفانوس..نوّر لى ها العتمةإن كان هناك تفسيران، على نفس القدر من الجودة، أو أكثر لفعل إنسانى واحد، إذن ماذا يعنى هذا الفعل غير أن يكون وهماً.
إيماءة تصدر فى مواجهة الخلفية الضبابية للحقيقة، غدت ملموسة فقط نتيجة الطبيعة الخداعة للانقسام البشرى.حظى السىء – أقول- وجّهنى متأخرا للتعرف على لورانس داريل.
هذا ما صدمنى به داريل الذى لا أعرف له أى مؤلف آخر ولا ينتابنى الفضول لمعرفة هل له مؤلفات أخرى أم لا، يكفينى هذا القدر ولو لم يكتب غير رباعية الاسكندرية لكفته ووضعته على قمة الناثرين فى الأدب العالمى.
At the close, the feeling of time having passed and events having changed their futures and impressions of each other are felt as they move on to the next phases of their lives.
Seeing this through to the end has highlighted that each individual book is only a step towards this point, another aspect of the story, sometimes told by other characters, (like links in a chain) the end of the whole read, and I think you have to plough all 4 to appreciate the work in its entirety.
Der Protagonist des ersten Teils, der irische Schriftsteller Darley, kehrt nach einem langjährigen Exil auf einer griechischen Insel nach Alexandria zurück und versucht sich in der Stadt wieder heimisch zu machen.
Nacheinander begegnet er seinen alten Freunden und Bekannten, die der Leser aus Justine, Balthazar und Mountolive bereits kennt, oder hört über andere von ihrem Schicksal.Nach einem interessanten zweiten und großartigen dritten Teil, wurde ich hier leider enttäuscht.
Während die beiden Vorgängerbände je einen eigenen, völlig anderen, überraschenden Blick auf die Geschehnisse des ersten Bandes werfen und besonders in Mountolive die Fäden der Handlung zusammengeführt und zu einem Abschluss gebrachte werden, bleibt im letzten Teil eigentlich nicht mehr viel zu sagen.
Whereas the first volumes of the Alexandra Quartet begin with a quotation from "Justine" by the Marquis de Sade, Clea starts with a quote from a different work by de Sade. It is as thoroughly sadistic as the first three volumes and equally enjoyable. Individually, the novels are all dreadful. Together they are quite outstanding. They do however need to be read together over a fairly short period of time.
After running into Balthazar and his Inter-Linear, he eventually heads off for Alexandria again with the child, full of both trepidation and anticipation about the past and the people he knew there.When Darley arrives in Alexandria, almost immediately he runs into his old artist friend Clea, and consummates a formerly Plutonic relationship, now that their circle of friends is unencumbered by the presence of Melissa, who has died, and Justine, who is under house arrest for the duration of the novel.
All of this is, as always in this tetralogy, tied in beautifully with Balthazar’s earlier analyses shot throughout the Inter-Linear.Reading these four novels has been one of the more powerful set of experiences that I have recently had.
But shortage of money made me compose them one after the other." He spent, he said, a total of seven weeks on Clea.
When he's on, as he is, for example, in the carnival episode of the Mulid of El Scob that effectively concludes Clea, Durrell evokes the physical world with a pleasingly impressionistic synesthesia.
His "A"-game prose is poetic in the best sense of that over-used word.
In Clea, three characters do page-long 'impressions' of the dead Scobie, presumably because Durrell couldn't bear to part with the 'colorful' comic qualities of a character he'd thoughtlessly killed off.
The scene is a pair for the one at the end of Mountolive when David finally sees Leila again; Durrell's characters, it seems, cannot just revisit former loves and part as friends; there needs to be an additional twist of the knife as well.For the most part, the promise to carry the story forward in time takes the form of "Whatever happened to so-and-so?" I am reminded of sitting in on my mother's tea-parties as a child, hearing her catch up with news of old friends from school or college days, people that meant nothing to me.
An amazing book and whole tetralogy! I wish more people would read this liberating non-judgemental book about personal life juxtaposed with war and history.
There are four volumes in Lawrence Durrell's sumptuous, stupendous narrative experiment ("Alexandria Quartet') and taken as a whole, they will astound any sensitive reader.
It's an 'origami'-crafted story; a 'Moebius-strip' story; everything is relayed from a different angle; and yet the same angle at all times.Durrell writes his love tale with multiple characters which twists-around-on-itself.
Now. This particular novel to which my TAQ review is tied--'Clea'.
'Clea' is the finest episode in the quartet, to my way of thinking.
Clea is in love with Pursewarden (a fellow expat who I imagine looks very much like actor Dirk Bogarde).
It's difficult to articulate the incredible achievement Durrell has produced with the Alexandria Quartet, and this, the final novel and, in many ways, key to the series.
As Durrell noted in the introduction to the second volume, _Balthazar_, his overall plan was based on the four-dimensional space of Einsteinian relativity physics, and this last volume, indeed, introduces, explicitly, the effects of time into Durrell's narrative, including all the ramifications time represents for interpersonal relationships, artistic creation, the dialectic of sex, aesthetics, and death, illusion, and the proceeding of generation after generation of humanity in the world (or in Alexandria, in this case).
The prose throughout the series is absolutely stunning, the characters completely believable (including a range, in each, from sympathetic to unsympathetic as the reader meets them in different circumstances and with different knowledge).
so i have spent the last 6 months or so reading the alexandria quartet with my girlfriend and at the moment, i am a good third of the way through volume three in terms of a close read with extensive notes.
i don't plan on writing a full review, but do plan on writing an essay on durrell's plagiarism - as i have hunted down a good half dozen, and counting, sources that he filched from.
i also wanna try and understand why durrell did this and whether the quartet should be seen in a different light.
Mountolive'den sonra, kitaba hala yeni karakterlerin girmesi ile aslında süregelen hikayenin ihtiyaç duyulan açıklamalarının bu kitabın ortalarına kadar açıklanmamış olması biraz can sıkıcı. Mountolive o kadar heyecanlı ve çözüm odaklıydı ki bu kitap biraz gölgede kaldı. Ayrıca herkesin birbirine sürekli yan gözle bakmakta oluşu da artık 4. kitapta biraz batmaya ve şaşırtmamaya başladı. Sonlarına doğru Clea ile ilgili olarak gelişen yan hikaye bile heyecanı arttıramadı. Seri, Mountolive'de bitirilebilirmiş belki de.
At first this final book in the series didn't hold up as much as the other 3 because requited love can be boring compared to the angst of requited.
how lovely to settle into that flush of union of spirits and Durrell's poetry captures that transcendence.
Plus it's vital to the complete series and the horror the soul experiences as it tries to assimilate the hate and ugliness of war.
I only keep books that I love.
And are worth rereading and while I doubt I will do that in its entirety - so many books so little time - I can't bear to part with it either!
Punto final al Cuarteto de Alejandría. La ciudad, sometida a los rigores de la guerra, es el escenario donde Darley y Clea nos llevarán hasta el ¿desenlace? de todas las historias previamente trazadas en los otros tres libros. Pero como gran reflejo de la vida, los cierres de las historias abren otras historias nuevas... Lo que pasa es que ya no las veremos.
En la última novela se desarrolla el final de cada personaje.
En la anterior se deja ver que toda la historia tiene un motivo político.
Y ahora se muestra a los personajes con todo la brutalidad de la realidad.
Nessim tuerto , Justine sin su belleza, los dos solos, abandonados y fracasados, Leila muy lejos de Alejandría, Pombal enamorado de una casada, Mountolive enamorado de la hermana ciega de Purserwarden, Darley con Clea.
La guerra ha terminado con todo.
Y cada personaje regresará a su origen, los caminos se bifurcan, solo Nassin y Justine continuarán en su Alejandría.
http://kristinsbookblog.blogspot.com/...Clea – the fourth (and final) installment in Lawrence Durrell’s Alexandria Quartet – returns us to the narrative style of Balthazar, and picks up where it left off.At the conclusion of Balthazar, Darley receives a letter from Clea, though since I read that novel almost a year ago I don’t have any recollection what that letter was about.
After months back on his island, Darley receives yet another letter from Clea, and we are given to believe that the two of them will meet up again in Paris.I began the Alexandria Quartet back in December of 2008 or January of 2009 – I don’tremember which, but I know it feels like a lifetime ago.
A fantastic finale to the quartet. These four books are among the few literary works I would describe as astonishing. What an achievement. I plan to reread them soon.
CleaClea is the denouement for the series the Alexandria QuartetFinished the book Sunday, April 19, 2009.The lives of Justine, Nessim, Narouz, Pursewarden, Melissa have all unraveled or ended.
Clea and Darley seem to be haunted by the ghosts of Pursewarden and Melissa; of course Darley has been caring for Melissa's baby by Nessim, the little girl named Justine for several years before his return to Alexandria.
I find Pursewarden to be an empty, arrogant individual who takes away from rather than adds to the Quartet.The book ended on a good note with the love affair between Darley and Clea also for Nessim and Justine.
