https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336021.The_Primeval_Forest
This slim volume is a vivid account of Schweitzer's impressions and experiences during his first period in Equatorial Africa (modern Gabon), written "with the help of the reports which I wrote every six months in Lambarene and sent as printed letters to my friends and supporters".
On his way to Lamberene, Schweitzer stopped off at Paris to talk to his old friend Charles Widor, and books were sent to him in Africa by "Professor Strohl, of Zurich University" (this appears to have been Jean Strohl, a zoologist).
Albert Schweitzer was a doctor at a Christian missionary station in what is now Gabon during the First World War. He was also a theologian, philosopher and organist.
His book is about the daily life of a missionary doctor, the suffering and survival of the native people, and man's struggle with Nature.
The book is a vivid and engaging description of his circumstances and environment, and he ends with a call to action to his fellow Europeans to help Africa at a time when Europe was just beginning to recover from the war.
This was the second book which I read about Albert Schweitzer and was given to me by my uncle who was a surgeon.
As a young boy it inspired me to want to be a doctor in Africa also (sadly I was not clever enough to be a doctor).
The writing style is old fashioned and some of the attitudes may seem a bit condescending for modern day readers, but when put in the context of its time it's an inspiring work about a man filled with a huge compassion.
"If he has no definite object in view for which to earn money he stays in his village."Schweitzer's conclusion from this approach to labour is interesting: "The negro, then, is not idle, but he is a free man; hence he is always a casual worker."This casual approach to paid labour - that it is to be engaged in only as necessary to purchase specific items above and beyond the daily necessities of food and shelter - inevitability found itself in conflict with the economic aims of the French colonists, whose primary concern was in felling and exporting the jungle's rich supply of quality hardwoods for transportation and sale to European markets.
Of late I have continuously been coming across books on and by Schweizer so I gave up and read one. While the language is dated this text of the experience of setting up his hospital is valuable. Faith in action and a life in the service of others.
DNF.
Der Einblick in eine andere Zeit, wie auch die Beschreibung des Umlandes von Lambarene war für mich sehr faszinierend. Anders als zunächst gedacht, war auch die Sprache sehr angenehm zu lesen.
I picked up this English edition after a futile and abortive attempt on a poorly translated Chinese edition.Dr. Schweitzer's narrative of his experience and impression is straight forward and to the point. I have read from somewhere that people had criticized Schweitzer for his patronization toward the African natives. However, I don't sense it from this writing. I find him giving the question of relieving the natives a deep thought and trying to provide sincere solutions. His contrasting "child of nature" and "men of civilization" did help in explaining the viewpoints and the thinkings of the natives pretty well.
Je découvre qu'il a eu une autre vie avant l'Afrique(organiste hors pair et très influent, autorité sur Bach, docteur en théologie, pasteur protestant), qu'il a pris la résolution de devenir médecin pour partir fonder son hôpital en Afrique.
S'il perçoit et regrette tous les torts causés par le colonialisme, le déséquilibre qu'il amène dans les pays qu'il domine, la perte de la culture africaine qu'il induit, Schweitzer n'en tire pas les conclusions qui nous semblent (oui je sais, presque un siècle plus tard) s'imposer.

Deserving of its canonical status in the history of philanthropy; Schweitzer nevertheless can’t seem to overcome his colonial capitalist sympathies (the Protestant ethic at work). Contemporary readers will similarly find his paternalism, Islamophobia, and his frequent talk of the “black man’s innate love of spending” unpleasant, to say the least.
I have only read the first of these two Schweitzer books. It is an amazingly philosophical overview of life in west Africa 100 years ago. Beautifully insightful.
