https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192832.I_Could_Do_Anything_If_I_Only_Knew_What_It_Was
Proceed with caution: this book helped me to quit my job and change my career! Seriously, it is a very powerful, insightful, honest analysis of what might be holding you back from finding true career satisfaction. Through detailed breakdown of different personality types, you can be on a very enjoyable road to self-discovery and a brighter, happier, more fulfilling future! A great book!
The other thing I found off-putting is that that author uses one exercise, early in the book, in which the reader imagines his/her dream job -- your ideal job.
Well, isn't that why we're reading the book -- because we don't know what our dream jobs are?
After that exercise, and one more in which the reader fine-tunes their dream job, the author writes, "Look who just figured out what she wants." It seemed an oversimplification, to say the least.
It actually gives you the mindset to be able to fix your situation.
The author has a ton of exercises for the reader to write out; one of them is writing down everything that made you happy when you were 5 years old; another one is writing down a time line of what youve done at past ages and predicting what you will do at 30, 35, 40 and so on.
If you actually do what she talks about you'll begin to delve into your desires and work on a plan for achievement instead of just sitting miserably in the background wishing for things you think you can't have...
Started off incredibly strong--I read 2/3 of it in one sitting (2am on a weekday at a 24-hour McDonalds when I was mourning over a rescinded job offer and felt doomed to a life of unemployment and living with my parents) and was encouraged by its message.
You're a success every time you face down fear." (21)Using your "escape dream" to figure out what you want in life: "That escape dream holds a powerful clue to something you really need.
It was the perfect timing as I have been going through a lot of questioning about the future of my career and considering a drastic change.
It was insightful and very helpful.
Unlike most of self-help authors, Barbara Sher says it like it is.
As we grow we change and hence everything changes, our dreams, goals and our needs.
I highly recommend the book for the those who are considering a career change or feel lost and can't put their fingers on what they want to do with their lives.
I had to read this book for a course and had no idea just what nuggets of truth it contained.
I can't give it 4 or more as the layout made it so hard to read.This book is one of the things responsible for deciding to take a risk and live my dreams and it's really happening!
And you reading this, are probably one of them :)I highly recommend this book to those a bit discouraged in life and for those on the cusp of realising or re-realising what it REALLY is they want to get out of, and give back to, in life.
I found this not only easy and enjoyable to read but very beneficial! The exercises, though at times tough, were fun and enlightening. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone feeling stuck in their careers, or in decision making about a career, and to anyone who has been putting off doing what they really love out of fear.
There are lots of practical exercises, and if you do them, you can't help but feel like you have a better understanding of yourself, your likes and dislikes, and a different way of approaching your career obstacles.
She gives the very practical advice that "if you want to do a lot of things, you can do them all." (either in sequential careers, in hobbies, or in finding the very rare career that combines many different interests - such as a writer).
It also helped me understand where this uncertainty and being stuck came from, some things I already had gotten explained to me, others which were new.
I also see myself in a new and more positive light, having identified with certain 'types', and why if not done in excess it can be good to think life through and check if you are going where you want to go.I've not done a great deal of the exercises yet, some seem impractical or aren't explained well enough for me, but others certainly have merit.
I got stuck when I started on this book, because I stopped after a few chapters and thought that I'd have to solve a certain thing before I can get onwards.
See, the thing is, I need a book right now called "I could do anything if only I wasn't pregnant." or "if only I didn't have 3 little kids," or, "if only I had the energy," etc.
Then I was irritated because I felt like the author was encouraging me to leave my husband and kids behind to follow my own passions and be selfish.
Then I was irritated because I decided I didn't need the authors help after all!Ok, so that wasn't a range of emotions, it was mainly just one emotion.No, really though, this is a motivational book that I think could help a lot of people get on the right track.
В общем, многие книги советуют повзрослеть и немного рисковать, но Барбара Шер очень милая в этом плане.
I checked this book out of the library, and would love to add a copy to my personal collection.
The suggestion is to read the first three chapters, and then choose to read the chapters that you think will help you the most.
It is full of ideas, usually in the form of written exercises, to help you think through what's keeping you from taking action toward your life purpose.
Her tone was not condescending or patronizing, but rather full of energy that helped me feel confident in my ability to take action.
I will be checking this book out again anytime I need a boost.
Мені здається, що книги для саморозвитку - це як ключі, які інколи підходять, а інколи - лише заважають. Видно свого ключа я таки знайшов =)
The book starts with general overview of the idea that something is stopping us from the realization of what do we really want.
On one hand it does provide some self-analysis assistance and can be a good start to your new career discovery.
On the other hand I find it has way too much self-help spirit in it, and even though it does provide a lot of motivation and support, at one point you start feeling as a lost soul who went to visit a healing group where he leader constantly repeats you can do good, you are doing good, but you see no result no matter what.
First three chapters are written to everyone and after that it's divided by personality.
Chapter 6, written for people who don't know what they want because they want too many things had me pegged.
Title: "I Want Too Many Things; I'm All Over the Map." "You are a born scanner - you're a person who delights in the astonishing, unending variety around us.""Scanners want to taste everything.
You love what is new, and ou don't suffer from fear and indecisiveness.
On the contrary, you're dedicated to learning all that you can, and you're intelligent enough to delight in all that you learn."
I really liked this book!
She articulated my thoughts that you can’t change your life through “positive thinking,” that is is false and if you could change your life that way, you wouldn’t have these problems.
I honestly believe that 99.9% of people would change if they could, but they don’t know how and can’t because of some condition or another that has to change first and is outside of their immediate control.
You can’t change your life through magical thinking, it takes something else.
I feel like i really identified with that, as do many people, it turns out.
It focuses more on the self and has an excellent way of guiding you through the process of discovering what you want out of life and what may be holding you back.The real gem is the structure of the book and the exercises that you are taken through.
The rest of the book is then structured to discuss different aspects of obtaining what you really want based off your results from the various exercises.
I found I only read the chapters (After the first three) that related to me and this made it easier to undertake the exercises and recommended actions from each chapter.A book I will be coming back to read again.
Most likely, you're only going to be able to use two, maybe three, sections of this book at most.
Which is useful in and of itself.Some of the exercises are not particularly helpful.
I don't think it transformed my worldview, but it did help me clarify a couple key points.
Actually, in my case, I think it helped confirm that some of the decisions I made were good ones--while my current job isn't perfect, it's actually pretty close to what I want out of a job.
So this book isn't changing much about my behavior, but it did help change how I felt about my behavior.
i didn't imagine such a book exists, when i saw it at the book store i got hooked it was as if it was there for me at the right time.I loved the classifications and the exercises in this book,the idea that everything we do as adults is rooted from childhood is really true though it's annoying, we think we have passed childhood long time a go and grew up and become strong adults, but it's not true, there are a lot of unsettled issues that tend to hunt us in different ways and forms,it could effect some ppl in their attitudes or behaviors, it could effect others in their careers, and others in their relationships.....etc.
Her books are easy to read and promote active participation in figuring things out for yourself.
I keep coming back to her work whenever I’m at a crossroad or feeling stuck.I love her enthusiasm about all the possibilities one could explore in life.
I can really get behind a life coach who promotes whinging and ranting and even throwing tantrums (and then getting sh*t done).What I love most are the tangible exercises she gives.
The book isn’t worth half as much if you don’t follow the exercises.
The author does not offer a quick fix but instead helps you to identify and remove obstacles in the way of your goals, which can lead to long-term solutions in various areas of your life, not just your career.
It's unlikely that you're going to figure out exactly what you want to do in life after reading the book for the first time.
If you invest some time into the process, however, you should learn quite a bit about yourself and be on the right path toward determining what you want out of life.
You need to work your way through it at your own pace while doing the excersises and thinking about your choices and past and everything that has led you here, where you are now.
My thoughts in general so far: The author comes with great excersises thoughout that really helps readers identify the the things they find imortant, and elliminate all the negativity and pressure they have been bombarded with all their lives, from family or teachers or even friends.
What I found most useful so far, is the excersise 'Job from hell' in which the reader must describe the worst job they can imagine and change it into the opposite.
This was a tremendous book and should be given as required reading for every senior about to graduate.
This book has helped me work through may of my issues pertaining to launching and sustaining a writing career.
Before I read this book I was convinced that there was no chance I could write for a vocation, but here I am looking head-long into my next three or four books with very little apprehension or doubt.
The book is great and the author a miracle worker.
If you have kids, buy this book for them.
If you are stuck in a dead end job, get the book for yourself.
This book is incredibly insightful and goes beyond the typical "help me figure out my career" type of books.
It goes on a deeper level, including exercises to help understand ourselves and behaviors, and its chapters are divided by different personality types (I recommend reading them all!).For anyone who feels lost and just not sure what to do with his/her life, I highly recommend this book!
It gave me so much insight on myself, and also made me feel like I am okay right where I am, and understand why and what I can do from here.
When I started reading this book, I wasnt thinking that there would be such deep-analyzing stories in it. This book is about your true you, it asks you questions and gives some thoughts to think about the little things that had been developing you as a person since you were born. Понравившиеся высказывания из книги: "Отложенная мечта высыхает, как виноградина на солнце. Она атрофируется как неиспользуемая конечность. Однако, такая мечта, над которой ежедневно работают, становится с каждым днем сильнее". "Мы люди, и наш жребий - учиться и оказываться в новых непостижимых мирах".
ugh, i know. i am embarassed to admit i read this. i am just desperatly searching for a clue as to what i should be doing with my life (career wise).this is a great book if youre looking for excuses for why you are lazy and unambitious. it lets you blame all your shortcomings on your parents or upbringing. i, on the other hand, am fully aware no one is to blame but myself. therfore this book and i didnt jive.
there was a lot of eye opening exercises and they tapped into your emotions, your childhood, and your interests. Some of them were really helpful; there were chapters dedicated to certain types of people which I found very useful and she encourages letting your emotions out to get to the bottom of the real problem of suppressed desire.
Excellent book with many exercises that supported me in getting clarity around what I really wanted to do in my life! I keep referring back to this book and use multiple exercises from this book with my clients.
Positive advice for understanding what blocks you and what to do about it if you are ready to face it.
WTF?!Das Buch hat zwar ein paar nette Ideen und Übungen, schafft jedoch nichts Substanzielles.Kritikpunkte:Die Autorenschaft erwähnt Zitate und Studien, ohne diese genau zu zitieren/ Quellen anzugeben - das mag in den 90er, als dieses Buch erschien, noch nicht so schlimm gewesen sein; heutzutage erwarte ich jedoch mehr.
116) - wenn das mal keine indirekte Bewertung ist, dass man noch nichts gemacht hat...Im Grunde können die Tipps aus dem Buch auf fast alles andere angewendet werden, so allgemein sind sie formuliert/gehalten (Ziele überlegen und jetzt damit anfangen, überlegen was einen hilft, negative Einflüsse vermeiden, Dinge aus der Vergangenheit kann man nicht mehr ändern, ...).
