https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36381037-cinder
But all that doesn't really matter now because I've remedied the problem and absolutely fallen in love with this wonderful story.When I first heard of Cinder before it's release, it was gaining quite a bit of buzz known for the retelling of Cinderella.
Reading Cinder reminded me of a simpler time before responsibilities, when the biggest thing I had to worry about was setting up the VCR (yes, a throwback!) every day because at 4pm, right before Dragon Ball Z, Sailor Moon would come on.
“I'm sure I'll feel much more grateful when I find a guy who thinks complex wiring in a girl is a turn-on.” In this, my third attempt to read Cinder, I finally made it to the end. But I find myself wishing I hadn't bothered. Going into this book, I thought it was fair to expect a light, probably unremarkable, but ultimately entertaining read. I did not come to this book wanting my mind to be blown with science or to be taken to another world by beautiful prose, but I also did not expect it to b
I did not come to this book wanting my mind to be blown with science or to be taken to another world by beautiful prose, but I also did not expect it to be so painfully boring.
A part-cyborg protagonist, a loose Cinderella retelling in a future/alternate universe, a setting in New Beijing, and a potential war with a kingdom of Lunar people (a race who live on the moon).
Iko was the not-so-funny sidekick.I'm also not sure I understand why part-cyborg people are considered second class citizens when they're basically regular humans who've had parts added to save them.
wow. wow. WOW.I went into this book not expecting to like it. I'm not sure why, but this book completely surprised me!
In this re-envisioning of the fairy tale, Lihn Cinder is a cyborg, meaning, she is almost half mechanical - she has prosthetic hands and a foot, a big chunk of her internal organs are wired into her body.
Cinder is a mechanic in New Beijing, the capital of the Eastern Commonwealth, a country ravaged by plague outbreaks.
The world of Cinder is very imaginative and full of potential.
New Beijing, royalty, plague, cyborg falling in love, a war with the Lunar (Moon) Empire.
I mean, just think about the possibilities here.
Does she think of herself as human?
A fairy tale retelling (Khanh loves retold shit!!!!).Yet for years, I resisted the many, many "KHANH, YOU GOTTA READ CINDER" because of one reason.
I like my main characters purely organic and carbon-based.Let's get one thing straight.
I know she is part machine, but it never felt like that part of her was explored as much as her humanity is sold to us.Furthermore, the KHANH LOVES ASIAN SHIT part of me was so not sold on this.
Those are just names, this is not an Asian-based book.
This book is like that.There is no explanation about New Beijing's culture.
*4.5*This was amazing!! Why didn't anyone tell me to read it sooner?! Just kidding.. The world and characters are so great, I can't wait to continue on in the series.
*mild spoilers* Cyborgs!!!! *squeeaaaal*Androids!!!! *squeeaaaal*New Beijing!!!! *squeeaaaal*Cinderella!!!!! *sque—uhm, I’m more of a Beauty and the Beast girl. But not bad. Cinder was one helluva ride for me. Saying that it was a special one is an understatement. Why I call it special? Because of the ups and downs it had. If you read my Kindle notes for this review you’d thing I’m suffering of DID (Dissociative Identity Disorder). What do you think doctor House? Am I sick? Can it be treated?? Y
*squeeaaaal*New Beijing!!!!
*squeeaaaal*Cinderella!!!!!
I replaced thisWith thisI’m sure Cinder would prefer to be the uncool version.Dude, you’re a freakin’ cyborg...
Probably add some cool gadgets and make everyone drool over me.
Imagine the possibilities since you’re a badass mechanic!
There are so many things you missed in this new world you have created.
I want to know more about their infrastructure, more about what type of transportation they have, what clothes, toys, gadgets, what food even!
I wish Cinder transforms him into a brainless zombie in the coming book.But, in the end, I have to say that I didn’t mind this book at all.
Re-Read On Audio!
I love the narrator =)I'm still loving Cinder, Iko and Prince Kai. I loved one of Cinder's sisters but the other one and her stepmom.
They are trying to find a cure by doing some evilness.
Cinder gets to meet Prince Kai and sigh, I felt so happy for her.
Here's a really cool fan art of Cinder by MiraPau ↓This book was so good.
I remember when I read it the first time that it was so amazing.
I'm loving these audio re-reads.
=)  MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List***2015***I LOVED this book so much!
“Even in the Future the Story Begins with Once Upon a Time.”  Once Upon a Time,there was an avid reader (let's call her K) who thought she was very clever but she couldn't be more wrong.You see,she'd heard about a futuristic version of Cinderella in which Cinder is a cyborg mechanic that everyone seemed to love but she refused to read it,because she was skeptical and a little prejudiced.One day she read the first page but when she came to the part where Cinder takes off her foot she said "Ok I
Once Upon a Time,there was an avid reader (let's call her K) who thought she was very clever but she couldn't be more wrong.You see,she'd heard about a futuristic version of Cinderella in which Cinder is a cyborg mechanic that everyone seemed to love but she refused to read it,because she was skeptical and a little prejudiced.One day she read the first page but when she came to the part where Cinder takes off her foot she said "Ok I tried but it's not for me,end of story" and she continued her life.Until she decided to give it another shot,and then the skies opened and the stars above made her see the truth.That she was aOh my stars,she really was an idiot.Because there can be only one reaction towards a book that narrates a classic tale that takes place in the future after the Forth World War,when androids are a part of daily life and a plague kills thousands of people and the Earth is threatened by the cunning and inhumanly beautiful Queen of the Moon who has mind-controlling powers:
CAN'T REVIEW.NEED THE NEXT ONE NOW. THIS IS ALL I'VE EVER WANTED IN A RETELLING. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
This is my 2nd read from Marissa Meyer (after Heartless) and I can finally conform that I'd happily read any book written by her because THIS. WAS. YAS. PLOT: Cinder is a Cinderella retelling but with a sci-fi/dystopian twist as the setting is in New Beijing (post 4th World War). It is also the first book among three others in The Lunar Chronicles series. The main female lead, Cinder, is a cyborg who specializes in mechanic. Despite peace in the world, a plague known as Letumosis, has hit the ce
I love love Iko, I want more of Iko pls, there just wasn't enough in this book.👠 Prince Kai is sooooo swoooooonnnyyy and no, he doesn't have to be a troubled character to draw my attention even though troubled ones are my weakness but who's judging anyway.
👠 Despite having a strong start and ending, the middle parts with all of the lab scenes lost me a bit 👠 I also felt like if they were less clues than what's presented, I wouldn't have predicted the plot twist xD The next three books in the series better have built on this world and leave me genuinely surprised in order to love it wholly :)“Clearing his throat, Kai murmured, "You have no idea how to dance, do you?"Cinder fixed her gaze on him, mind still reeling.
*I know this sounds ridiculous.
The whole point of the book is to create a futuristic cyborg Cinderella, right?
But it really takes a certain amount of the fun out of a story when a reader already knows a lot of where the story is going.
Cyborgs are relatively novel in the YA world.
Books set in Asia are relatively novel in the YA world.
I still really enjoyed the book the way it was but I think Meyer could do (arguably even more) wonderful things with her own imagination.3.5/5 starsEDIT: A-ha!
See Comment 8 below for information about the remaining books.
my only experience with them was through disney films, so retellings arent usually something i gravitate towards, but this series has been recommended to me so many times, i thought ‘why not?’ and surprisingly, i wasnt disappointed.i liked how even though i knew the general story of cinderella, this book followed a plot line that felt new and exciting to me.
i thought cinder was a wonderful character (even if certain aspects of her story were extremely predictable) and found her to be very relatable.i know the following books each have their own fairy tale twist, but are still connected as a whole, so im looking forward to see how the series plays out!
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsLet’s talk about fairy tales.I was raised on them and I love them.
Like X-Men. Only the queen is Magneto, not Xavier (thus the evil).LOVED it.And even if you don't ordinarily go for YA books, if you like fairy tales, science fiction, and/or dystopian novels, then I would definitely give CINDER a chance, b/c it doesn't read like a typical YA book.
The Queen's Army (Lunar Chronicles, #1.5)
Well call me surprised.
Shocker of the century!
I actually loved this book.
I was scared starting it due to what I thought would be inevitable romance but it was pretty minor in this one.
But OH MAN did I wanna throw Adri to the wolves.
What a terrible human.
She got my blood boiling so friggin much.
Also, cyborgs?
Mind control?
Moon people?
Get outta here obviously I'm gonna like this book.
I can't really think of anything that bothered me about this book.
But yea, wow.....never would have thought I would enjoy this as much as I did.
list of things 2015 me and current me agree on:- One Direction Take Me Home Yearbook Edition is a musical masterwork- the idea that you can get salmonella from eating cookie dough is a myth perpetuated by the government to prevent people from having a good time- Cinder is a 3.5 star read.review to come!!---------currently-reading updatei've always said that the best time to begin a reread of a very long and addicting series is right as the busiest part of the semester begins :)
3.5 starsA Cinderella story through and through...or is it? “Even in the Future the Story Begins with Once Upon a Time.”   Everyone knows this story. At this point, I have read so many versions that I have a tough time going through yet another one.  Yet, the further I read, the more I was delighted.  This book was unexpectedly sweet, endearing and enjoyable.My younger sibling had this book on a shelf for the longest time and (finally) at the nudging of one of my friends, I picked it up. I'm gla
I'm glad I did.Cinder is a  cyborg mechanic living in New Beijing who, along with her best friend (a robot named Iko) and sister (a fully human gal named Pearl),  fall in love with Prince Kai. But, life isn't all cleaning and singing, there's a ravaging plague and crippling poverty.
Gee, I wonder why this hasn't been contained.Cyborgs (like Cinder, our heroine) are recruited at a rate of one-per-day to be sacrificed for plague research.
I liked how the relationship with Prince Kai is more of a crush than an end-all-be-all sort of love.
Now I know what the hype is all about🙈🙉🙊I didn't expect to love this book so much. But, I'm really glad that I've got the chance to start this series.Kai❤Cinder❤Iko❤
4.5 stars Cinderella with cyborgs! So I'm pretty late to be jumping on the bandwagon, but this was really good! I know I normally gobble up any retelling, but when this first came out there were so many iffy reviews that I gave it a pass.Stupid.I should have checked it out for myself.So you have a pretty faithfulish retelling going on here. Of course, since it's sci-fi Cinderella, there are going to be some substitutions to the carriage and glass slipper.But they were really cool substitutions!
I know I normally gobble up any retelling, but when this first came out there were so many iffy reviews that I gave it a pass.Stupid.I should have checked it out for myself.So you have a pretty faithfulish retelling going on here.
Of course, since it's sci-fi Cinderella, there are going to be some substitutions to the carriage and glass slipper.But they were really cool substitutions!
And you could still definitely tell that this was the Cinderella story.And the ending was soooo good!
It seems that Cinderella won't be the only fairytale that gets retold in the Lunar Chronicles...If you've been putting this off because of bad reviews, you may want to reconsider.
You know when people keep talking about a book. Lah, this is fantastic! OMG, you have to read this! If you don’t read this I’ll shank you and play hackeysack with your kidneys!The usual…This is one of those books. I was cruelly declined on netgalley so had mostly buried it in my TBR pile and forgotten about it until people started terrorizing me with demands to read it.Oh am I so bloody happy I did! I loved this book! I stayed up most of the night to read it! It wasn’t perfect, of course. There
You know when peo­ple keep talk­ing about a book.
I mostly just want to find every­one else who read this book and give them the high­est of fives.I mean… yeah, if you want to get tech­ni­cal, it annoyed me that all the antag­o­nists were women (and that there were only two pos­i­tive female char­ac­ters out­side of the main pro­tag­o­nist) and they were all hor­ri­ble peo­ple.
Sure I don’t expect every sen­tence would be filled with reminders to the loca­tion but I wanted to feel the city and the peo­ple and the world – which I often didn’t.I hope there’s more cyber­punk in the next one.
Really enjoyed Cinder! It's more of a 4.35 stars in my book! Not 5 because I DIDN'T HEAD OVER HEELS LOVE IT, but i'm super excited as to where this series is going, I have a full booktallk/discussion here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xV9x3...
Super heavy sigh 1.5 stars is more of what I felt for this (actually as time passes I dislike this more and more).There might be some spoiler-ish information through here, so don't read the tags if you don't want to know, but I will do my best to not spoil it outside of the tags.I'm in the minority when it comes to the lack of adoration towards this book, and I just don't get it.
Like she finds that old car and is determined to fix it but it has no headlights, and the only reason I even mention that is when she points out how she was thankful for the lights from the houses on the way to the palace.
And Iko. And Kai. And I really want to bitch slap Adri and Queen Levana.
I swear, every time I read this book, they seem to get bitchier and bitchier.I am now ready to start Scarlet!
HARD.The Good- The first thing I want to talk about, which is the most important thing, was how well the author molded the Cinderella fairytale into this re-telling.
I completely fell in love with Cinder's story.
GAH!The Characters- I've read a few books before where the main character is part human and part machine, but Cinder was different.
Unless, you know, you don't like Cinderella...or cyborgs...or hot Asian Princes...So, basically, this book was epic.
REVIEW TO COME TODAY  My heart : Are you ready to be broken twice by this series? Me : SSSSSSHHHHHHH, I LOVE BEING BROKEN BY BOOKS.  I'm rereading it    I WILL REREAD THIS SERIES THIS YEAR  First Read Review : (view spoiler)[I knew this book a months ago because my sister told me,she said this book was awesome and most of people on goodreads liked it or even loved it and then checked on goodreads about this book and i read the blurb and i was likebut because i didn't have any books to read,i d

(I'll probably edit this review later)Aside from the fact that this was really predictable and not much of a shocker (probably because I read a spoiler, but I'm pretty sure even if I didn't read the spoiler I would have guessed it), this was an enjoyable read.
Some things I liked:~Kai and Cinder's romance.
It was a really quick read.~Prince Kai. He was so damn sweet and cute.
(No joke guys.) But obviously Cinder is a much more cooler and kickass version of Cinderella.What I didn't like:~It was predictable as fuck?
:)____________________________________________________________________Lol I read a spoiler.
ಠ_ಠ~.~FINALLY GOING TO READ THIS.
With all the rave reviews and hype surrounding this book, I had psyched myself out for a spectacular read.
Constantly reminded by her guardian that she is less than human, Cinder's daily existence is bleak.When the Prince unexpectantly seeks out Cinder's mechanical skills to fix an android, the story begins to get interesting.
Overall, I liked the story, but didn't love it.
At some point, I might read the second book in the series.
I can't help but feel like I'm missing something with all the glowing reviews that this series has received.
Este era uno de esos libros que empiezas con grandes expectativas y que al final eso juega en tu contra.
Tengo que reconocer que la portada y la edición son hermosas y estan muy bien acabadas, pero si me voy a la historia, siento que es bastante floja y que me quedó debiendo.El inicio del libro fue bastante lento, siento que la autora se lió un poco para explicar el mundo que había creado, ya que estaba muy perdida y tardé bastante para meterme en la historia.
Pero luego de hacer el esfuerzo para continuar con la lectura logró atraparme y entretenerme bastante.Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201...
Beats me guys, read the book.So let me just send out a list of things that don’t technically change from the original story.There is a dramatic entrance.Even though I think we glazed over the "until midnight part," there is the dramatic "everyone turns and looks," just like the story everyone knows and loves.
I need more princes like him.There is a ball that we are all just so anxious to get to.And BONUS there’s an evil queen.Now I might be mistaken, but I think she has something to do with the Snow White thread.
THIS WAS REALLY GOOD???????? Like I totally didn't expect to like it as much as I did!! I was hesitant about the whole cyborg aspect but I actually loved it. CINDER IS MY SWEET FIERCE SMARTASS BABY.This was a buddy read with the YA Book Bloggers squad <3RTC (maybe)May 14th 2017:Alright guys, I have finally caved and added the book to my TBR. I had absolutely no interest in reading it but my dear friend Mandy (how do I link to someone's profile again???) convinced me that it was worth it so here I am! :D
This is the first book in the Lunar Chronicles Series.
She is a mechanic cyborg named Cinder instead of Cinderella.There is a plague called letumosis that is killing off the population.
Cinder spends her days in New Beijing doing mechanical repairs to earn money for her very mean step mother.
There is a connection between Cinder and Wicked Queen Levana that is predictable.I loved this Cinderella tale and can't wait to read the second book.
I just loved Cinder.
I didn't like her mean step mother of course or Evil Queen Levana but who would, they also were done so well.
