https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102720.Roman_Blood
7.5/10A great start to this Roman series which attacks on two levels, one being the atmosphere and culture of Ancient Rome and the other being a good old mystery.
It caught me off guard because of this; I was thrown straight into Ancient Rome with all these historical figures and their way of life and instantly donned my toga and joined in.
This oozed atmosphere, every description added an extra level of realism to the time, the main character (Gordianus) I believe to be fictitious but the surrounding cast are all real historical figures.
Having not studied Latin or ancient history at school or university, my knowledge of the ancient world has come from reading Gore Vidal's Creation and Robert Harris' Imperium.
All this means that I came to this particular novel - the first in a series set in ancient Rome and featuring Gordianus the Finder - with very little knowledge of the time in which it is set and with no particular expectations.
In addition, the characters are well-drawn and the portrayal of Cicero made me want to read some of his works (I had the same reaction when I read Imperium, but didn't do anything about it.
In the case of Roman Blood, we are introduced to Gordianus, told he is known as "The Finder", he lives in a house in inherited from his late father, and he's sort of in a relationship with (view spoiler)[ his house slave Bethesda  (hide spoiler)].
I thought it was a smart move by the author to place the explanation (which was a little dry reading but important to the story) towards the end of the book when Sulla was starting to play a larger role in the plot of story.
(view spoiler)[ I did not believe Sextus to be guilty of murdering his father for most of the book.
Quick re-read before reading number two in the series.-–--------------------------------The only flaw (for me, I mean) was the long history lesson about Sulla, which sent me to sleep--serves me right for reading in bed.
Otherwise it kept me glued to the electronic pages.I missed the first twist--which is not surprising...
I always miss the twist!
And I fell for the red herring which followed--that too is not surprising.
I have a great willingness to suspend disbelief when I read a mystery.
This is, in fact, a well-written start to an interesting series that I will certainly continue.
Sextus Roscius was a wealthy, degenerate old man murdered on his way to a brothel in the heart of Rome.
I read historical fiction because I like to gain insight and learn about distant lands and times.
I especially appreciated the time period of the story.
Much of Roman historical fiction that I had read thus far seemed to focus on either Julius or Augustus.
Saylor focused his story on the period following the Social Wars (about 90 BCE).
This provided some insight into Marius and Sulla and a period that I had only known about in the most general terms.
Rather he gained his insights the hard way.
The famous Cicero (before he becomes famous, that is) hires Gordianus the Finder to solve a mystery and help him make history or, well, just help him finds facts for a client's defense.
And Saylor knows how to pull together the sights, sounds, tastes, smells, and feel of the city, time, its people, culture, religion, and politics wrapped up in a mystery involving history's most intriguing characters.
(hide spoiler)]Saylor's understanding of ancient Rome as a living, breathing, multi-faceted city is at the same level as Renault's understanding of ancient Greece.
In order to prove Sextus Roscius innocent, Cicero and Gordianus must attack those very aristocrats that now hold Rome in a powerful grip.I avoided reading this book for a while because I didn’t want it to disappoint me.
Details are presented in an easy and matter of fact way, which I found helped me get into the time period more simply because it was all given so casually.Roman Blood is not a ‘great men of Rome’ sort of book, though it does feature many of the people we know: Cicero and Sulla to name a few.
The investigation takes Gordianus to the houses of nobles and the brothels of Rome, encountering slaves, bodyguards and senators, and the corruption of Sulla's dictatorship.This is an absorbing novel, and the author really brings to life every aspect of Roman life, from top to bottom of society.
I enjoyed learning more about these notable Romans and their achievements in such a lively and interesting way.This was a real pleasure to read and I would strongly recommend to anyone who enjoys historical fiction set in the Roman era.
We get to meet all sorts of people from Ancient Rome - Cicero, Rufus, Sulla, Chrysogonos, and a host of others as Cicero prepares his defense and Gordianus must try and provide him with the clues and evidence necessary to support Cicero's arguments.The book sometimes gets a little heavy on history, especially the chapter that dealt with the rise of Sulla and the Social Wars for supremacy in Rome, but the book was a good, solid read and one I would recommend to one and all who like history, Roman history and a good mystery.
I am simply overwhelmed by this novel.
The author has presented an accurate, well-researched and wonderfully written story about life in Ancient Rome, with its treacheries, lies, vulgar activities, politics etc.
Is is very explicit but not boring when explaining habits or places and his characters are vivid and true-to-life.
Moreover, the whole story is very thrilling.
What more could one want from a historical novel?
Oh, and I should also mention that this was only Steven Saylor's debut novel!
Can't wait to read the other ones about Gordianus The Finder (in fact, I think I'll get started right away xD).Absolutely intoxicating and strongly recommendable to any fan of history, especially about the Roman Empire!
An interesting book set in Rome at the end of Sula's dictatorship.
The book is a combination of a crime thriller, historical novel and legal thriller and mostly reads like a page turner but includes some dull moments.I liked the descriptions of every day life in Rome, both of the nobility and of the more simple people.
The emphasis of the book, on the day to day life in Rome as opposed to the big battles and expansions that are described in other books about the era, suited me.There were some descriptions of dreams and spiritual/mystical episodes that I did not really care for.
At the time I wasn't that impressed with the story, maybe because it was in the middle of the series, and I couldn't remember much of it now anyway.On the other hand, Roman Blood is the first in the series, so that is a better start.
The story focuses a lot on Sulla and Cicero, but from a normal Roman citizen's point of view.
The mystery is pretty much solved halfway through, although there is a twist at the end.
It also does not have a happy ending, but something more realistic.If you are looking for a historical fiction set in Rome, I would highly recommend this book.
Roman Blood is a fictional narrative of Cicero's first major case, Sextius Roscia's defence for killing this father.
I am not much of a Roman history fan, but I looked up some aspects of the case and was surprised by how true Saylor has been to history, even with the inclusion of a major fictional character.
The only parts that bored me was when the author had Gordianus pontificate about Roman history.
When you are in the mood for murder and mysteries, you don't want to read about who won wars or what their aristocratic background is.
All in all, an excellent read for history / mystery fans.
Gordianus the Finder – a Roman detective with a lust for the truth, hard drinking, and his slave-girl Bathsheba – is hired by Cicero to unearth the facts behind a mysterious killing.
Gentleman farmer Sextus Roscius is accused of killing his estranged father, but the truth of the matter may reveal corruption not only in the man’s own family, but in the noblest and richest families of Rome; the murder may involve even the dictator Sulla himself.This is a superb historical detective novel.
Gordianus is a Roman Matt Scudder, a hard-living survivor with no special interests or abilities except a deep need for the truth and, possibly, a liking for rough justice.
Gordianus the Finder is hired to aid Cicero with the defense of a man accused of patricide.
Cicero is a young man at the start of his career and he is determined to make a name for himself.
I almost loved this book.
It was entertaining and informative, with enough action to keep the story from getting boring and enough accurate history about the laws and living styles of Romans in 80 BC to hold my interest.
I didn’t think it was quite good enough to hold its own with the other books on my 5 star shelf but it came close.
Eco and Bethesda have touched his heart, and they, along with other friends, remind Gordianus that as difficult as justice is to uphold, personal integrity sometimes is enough.This is one of my favorite literary references, and I think it would be the author's too:"'Forgive me if I am not justified in what I ask,' said Scrooge, looking intently at the Spirit's robe,' but I see something strange, and not belonging to yourself, protruding from your skirts.
are they yours.' Scrooge could say no more.'They are Man's,' said the Spirit, looking down upon them.
Roman Blood was an interesting ride, a look at late Republican Rome that was of a different flavor from the one I was used to - then again, the Rome of this period that I was used to was based mostly on history books, and there are just some days when those aren't nearly as fun as fiction.
I'm not sure if Saylor's depiction of Cicero is accurate, but it is interesting nevertheless.
Either way, I appreciate the "gray" morality more than if it was clearly black-and-white.As to the plot, it's nothing new - the mystery fan will find similar (likely better) in other novels.
Most are good, but after the seventh book ( ninth if you count the short story collections) the series begins to falter.
While his take of events is often plausible, by the time the series reaches Julius Caesar, he appears to accept what antiCaesar sources related and not taken a very balanced approach at all.
And if he understood ancient Rome so well, he would know NO ONE as overtly bisexual as he makes Caesar would have succeeded at politics.
I have not read the whole canon of ancient sources, but enough to know that much.
I had to read this one for my Roman History class in college, and while it was ok, I didn't get a sense of Rome, its political atmosphere, and what made it tick anywhere near to what Colleen McCullough manages to do in her Masters of Rome series.
Despite the professor's insistence that this book was more "accurate" wrt to Cataline's conspiracy and the portrayal of Cicero, the writing was pretty dry and uninvolving.
I'm not big into mysteries anyway, so my enjoyment suffered from Genre Apathy, Required Reading, Comparison To A Great Book, and Professorial Hype (she knew Saylor, a habit which made me leery of one's opinion then and now).
One of my favorite books, featuring the actual murder defense that made Cicero's reputation. Gordianus the Finder is a wonderful protagonist; you really get to know and like him tremendously. And Saylor makes Rome come alive, describing the streets and people quite vividly. The actual solution to the murder really surprised me, even the fourth(?) time I read it (my memory not being quite as good as it should). One of my favorite things about this series is the way Gordianus' unconventional family grows.
Nice historical mystery. I'll read more in this series. It's set towards the end of Sulla's dictatorship and features a young Cicero preparing to argue one of his first cases, defending an accused parricide. I liked the "detective" and the descriptions of the city were vivid.
This is an excellent historical mystery series set in ancient Rome. It has darker undertones than Lindsay Davis's Falco series,which I also enjoy, and Saylor's main character interacts with all of the major players in the twilight of the Roman Republic.
I loved this book. The combination of historical Rome with its ruthless rulers, merciless rich and spoiled citizens, poor slaves and bloody politics, with a part murder mystery part legal thriller, are very exciting! I'll look for more in this series.
First in the Roma Sub Rosa ancient Roman mystery series featuring Gordianus, a disreputable Finder.My TakeI seem to be in a very interesting rut! I keep reading novels that are set in the same places. I had just finished reading  King's Gambit  (SPQR, I) by John Maddox Roberts which is set in ancient Rome, and here I am plunging into, yup, ancient Rome. With the same historic characters, but at an earlier time with Cicero and Sulla.It's a fascinating look from the average man's perspective of a
!The StoryIt's an unexpected start when Tiro finds Gordiano hungover, although he quickly impresses young Tiro with his powers of deduction.Gordiano does his best to talk Cicero out of the case, but it's a deep game with a challenge that Gordiano can't resist: a man wrongly arrested for murder, and no one interested in the truth.The CharactersGordianus is a Finder---an investigator---who lives on the Esquiline Hill and is shunned by almost everyone.
Bast is Bethesda's beloved cat.Marcus Tullius Cicero is a young lawyer just starting out and needs to win this case that no one else will touch.
Fun historical mystery.
In particular, I refer to the passage around 75% of the way in during which the narrator drones on and on and on and on about the Social Wars and Sulla versus Marius.
Prior to this moment the author had seamlessly mixed historical exposition and original plot.
As narrators go, I rather like Gordianus (his "hangover cure, do you haz one?" intro seemed overdone, but he promptly calmed down, so no real harm dine) and I'm sticking with the series on that account.
The mystery itself is engaging, though sometimes feels like a prop for (surprise, shock) the larger social upheaval at hand.
This is an ancient Rome murder mystery/political intrigue type of book.It plunges you into the life of an investigator, Gordiano, who is asked to help the lawyer Cicero.
Cicero is defending a man, Roscius, who has been accused of murdering his (Roscius') father.The book is very detailed in its descriptions of the seedier life of Rome.
All the different classes, their ambitions or lack of them, and the political gambles people take are all part of the plot, which weaves all over the place amongst the characters, but remains tightly focussed on the murder itself.
Good quality (well researched) historical fiction and mystery. If this is how Roman citizens (and slaves) acted, why do we idolize them?
ROME< PRECHRISIAN, MYSTERY, enough to take me into the world and not want to leave
This is the first of a series of mystery novels set in ancient Rome, at the time of Sulla the dictator.
It features the character Gordanius the Finder who is a professional fact finder, hired to dig up information for the rich and powerful.
The mystery unfolds to have greater political significance, always a danger during a dictatorship, particularly one as bloody as Sulla's.Overall the writing is solid and there are few flaws.
The protagonist is a guy named Gordianus who is a "finder" hired by some obscure Roman lawyer named Cicero.
This mystery is the actual first real-life case by Cicero which put him on the map of who is who in the Roman political world.
We do get to meet some other major figures like Crassus (buying a burning house), Sulla (the dictator nearing his retirement), and Chrysogonus (who...
Just browsing through the titles, it is obvious that we will be meeting many other major players as they enter the scene as well.
