https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142540.The_Empty_Chair
Sachs, Lucy and Jesse go back to the primary crime scene - to search for clues - and Thom gets to add annotations when they learn something new about the suspect, that will hopefully help them find Lydia Johansson.
John White (artist) was her grandfather and Elenor Dare was her mother and she was a member of the Roanoke Colony, too.In summation: I'm still enjoying this series - though, I was slightly distracted whilst reading this novel; mainly because, at the end of the first book (The Bone Collector) - the author did a sleight of hand with the plot - and I kept wondering if it's going to be expanded on?
My favorite thus far in the series, I loved it. The story was fantastic, I kept going back and forth of who the culprit was. And the ending, if I had read this book back when it was released I would have gone crazy waiting for the next release. Lol.
But it did feel like Deaver had picked up Redneck 101 and just put a couple of generic characters in there to add to the different location feel.This was the same usual style as all other Deaver books in that it had a quick pace, plenty of short chapters which all end on a mini cliffhanger and, lets not forget, the numerous red herrings leading us astray.
That aside, I did like this story overall and it was good whilst I was reading it.
I will probably forget I've read this in a few months time though but that is more down to the nature of these types of series.

I am just going to be murmuring that in my head as I recall the very bad plot and logic gaps all through this book.Lincoln is Lincoln, but not the ever knowing person he was due to his mind drifting to his surgery.
Except when he is Lincoln and supposedly has the powers that other mere mortals do not and can surmise things that even the reader doesn't know in order to wrap up a plot.Sachs sucks.
Nothing really works, and the back and forth between characters and Lincoln and Sachs was too much.
Also by Deaver, Teardrop is a fantastic example of a hardboiled forensic thriller that doesn't cop-out and doesn't resort to stunted writing in order to keep the pace lively.Will you think the plot to The Empty Chair is silly?
Deaver peppers his dialogue with an abundance of "like"s and makes him a horny little kid (we get to read about his erections at least four or five times), but he is also, if you can believe it, a calculating genius.
In fact, the only interesting thing about the book was wondering just how many twists Deaver was planning on putting in this particular pretzel.
Honestly i'm in awe of how absolutely great these books have been.
This though has been my favourite one so far, and i was wondering how the preceding books could have been bettered but bloody hell they were!
The feel and images of the locations have just simply burnt their way on to my minds eye, as if i had seen them with my own eyes, such is the quality of the writing.
I can't speak highly enough of this book but i would say probably in my top five of all time!
Another great one by Deaver!
I hate to say it because I am a Jeffery Deaver fan and I really love the character of Lincoln Rhyme (and Amelia Sachs) but I really didn't like this one.
Maybe it is because a city girl like me finds it hard to stomach the southern hick theme.
Ugh.Essentially, the story involved Lincoln Rhyme going to northeastern North Carolina with his partner Amelia Sachs and his caregiver Thom to have an experimental surgery that might help improve his situation- if it doesn't kill him.
Amelia comes to believe that he is innocent and hides him and one of the missing comes to try to kill Lincoln during his surgery.
Tập này không quá gay cấn như hai cuốn trước, các pha hành động truy đuổi nghẹt thở không nhiều nhưng chất tình và lý, suy luận của "chàng hình sự học của những loại Hạt và bụi" được nâng tầm nhiều hơn, câu chuyện cảm động đau lòng ẩn đằng sau làm cốt truyện có vẻ mềm mỏng và hay hơn rất nhiều.Đến cuối cùng, kẻ thủ ác thật sự lộ diện không ở đâu xa gần ngay trước mắt, còn kẻ bị mang danh sát nhân máu lạnh luôn bị cả vùng căm ghét và xa lánh thật chất chỉ là một cậu bé tội nghiệp vô tội, quá đỗi tốt bụng vì muốn cứu người mà không ngại bị hiểu lầm và buộc tội, một cậu bé với tâm hồn cao thượng và một trái tim với niềm đam mê thuần túy dành cho côn trùng.
This installment of the Lincoln Rhyme series was a little better than The Coffin dancer, although I still had some issues with the story.
And of course other things begin to get in the way and the search becomes more difficult for one of the girls.The story was engaging and somewhat exciting but I found it to be a bit more predictable than the past 2 books I read so far.
I also did not like where the author took Amelia Sach's role in this installment because it made the story a bit unrealistic for me since it was pretty much out of character for Amelia.
This was the one that ended my Jeffery Deaver/Lincoln Rhyme period. Not as well constructed, somewhat (forgive me) contrived the book lost me early on and just never got me back. I felt like the characters didn't stay true to themselves and this Lincoln Rhyme wasn't the same Lincoln Rhyme I'd met earlier. He somehow didn't come across with the same attitude toward the law or his place in enforcing it.May pick others up at a later date...
Slow and uninteresting (and silly at times, a manhunt in a remote area is not handled by helicopters, dogs or search parties, but Rhyme tries to find out where the suspect is going by putting soil samples through a GC.....) at the start of the book, picks up pace in the middle to disappoint in the end. Characters are out of chararcter, plot twists are not very believable. I'm guessing writers block on this one, not recommended...
I read the first in Deaver's Lincoln Rhyme series, The Bone Collector and loved it...gushed over it, which I can do from time to time.
The Bone Collector was what a great mystery should be, had all the elements for a best seller and was rated four and five stars by most reviewers.
(One best-seller, four-five star review, in my mind, does not automatically makes a second one in that ranking.)The first word that comes to mind is contrived.
It was ok but can tell you, I'm not as anxious to read another Deaver as I was before I read this contrived mess of a book.
His first day there, Rhyme is visited by Jim Bell, sheriff of Paquenoke County, where two women have been kidnapped and a young man killed by 16-year-old Garrett Hanlon, nicknamed the Insect Boy because of his interest in bugs.
Garrett’s on the run and Bell wants Rhyme to help find him before he kills the two women he kidnapped.
Sachs talks Rhyme into looking into the case and the two begin their unique investigating: Rhyme examining the forensic evidence in a lab with Sachs doing the legwork.
Of course, this leaves Deaver no choice but to create such stunning criminal minds that they are indeed a match for our hero Lincoln Rhyme...that the possibility does exist to get away with it in spite of Mr. Rhyme's calculating mind.But it's not just about the crime...primarily Deaver takes his time as he develops his cast of characters across a whole series of ingenious books...enveloping all of the primary human emotions within such characters: from romance, to jealousy, to hatred, to loyalty, betrayal, and so forth.P.S. Same review for the whole series.
If you've read this review of Lincoln Rhyme, you've read them all.
Čas - 1:32Krutibrko!
Nasrat Franta na trabanta, ja dam 5*.To bylo totiz tak nechutne dobre napsane, ze se snad bojim jit spat, protoze se mi urcite bude zdat o proklatem HMYZU.
Bzzz.Aaaaaa, potrebuju horkou cokoladku na uklidneni.Jako vazne.
Muze mi nekdo vysvetlit, co jsem to prave precetla?
Nemohla jsem se odtrhnout a proste.
Mela jsem milion teorii a PRD, Deaver nade mnou vede 1:0, fajn..
mozna 5:3 (uhodla jsem toho prece jen dost - neco driv, neco pozdeji, cast postupne, ale neco mi hlava nebere jeste ted), protoze si to vymyslel jeste husteji, nez jsem si myslela.
Nejsem nadsena..Jsem fascinovana.Tezce.Ale ten hmyz.
Too many twists, everyone in town is a criminal.
But all is not what it seems and Amelia let’s herself be convinced by the boy’s pleas and manages to get him out of jail thus starting a second persecution, this time with both of them as targets.I think Deaver managed to insert several surprises in this story.
Let’s just say I was several times surprised with how the action developed and that Deaver loves to lead us one way just to show us that that was not the thing at all.
I can't put the Lincoln Rhyme novels down once I start reading, but find them ultimately rather unsatisfying.
They set up one cliff-hanger after another only to find out again and again that Rhyme has anticipated it and set up the bad guys.
Then you get an ending so improbable it's hard to keep a straight face.
The bad guys are all revealed, the good guys are all OK and even the accidental killing turns out to have been a bad guy, so that's OK too.
I rather like the characters of Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs, but the plots are just ridiculous.
It's been awhile since I read anything in this series. I really did love this book and I found it hard to put down last night. Interesting characters, Amelia and Lincoln get out of NYC and the resulting story is pretty darned good. So glad I started this series again.
Another great installment in the Lincoln Rhyme series! I have to admit, I was quite skeptical of  The Empty Chair  because the previous installment,  The Coffin Dancer  wasn't my favorite Deaver book. One thing I really enjoyed about the case in this novel was, Deaver brought back the forensics, Lincoln Rhyme's specialty. In the second installment,I felt like the forensics was missing, or at least not to the extent of the usual Lincoln Rhyme. Something else I enjoyed about  The Empty Chair  was
One thing I really enjoyed about the case in this novel was, Deaver brought back the forensics, Lincoln Rhyme's specialty.
Again, Deaver threw in so many plot twists, and I enjoyed how deep this story became than just the surface case.
I also enjoyed how Lincoln Rhyme has a personal conflict within this installment.
I feel like these touches Deaver adds not only make the stories more believable, but it also makes Rhyme more conceivable.
The book also provides a reference map before the first chapter to follow Lincoln Rhyme's search.Suspense, action, insects and characters galore throughout the whole story, but get ready and buckle up...because the best of the best in terms of writing style, twists, turns and "coups de grace" is reserved for the last 200 pages, they are full of "traps" and "surprises".
Jeffery Deaver- The Empty Chair (Pocket Books 2005) 3.75 StarsLincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs are asked to assist a small town police force in hunting down a brilliant kidnapper aptly named Insect Boy. Finding the boy may not be so difficult, but keeping him within their grasp may just be the toughest thing they have ever done.
I also enjoyed the section right before the end, as it was very creative.I recommend The Empty Chair to mystery lovers and Deaver fans.For more of my reviews check out my website, www.tonypeters.webs.comTony PetersKids on a Case: The Case of the Ten Grand Kidnappinghttp://authortonypeters.blogspot.com/
There are certainly mystery writers who offer more shocks and scares (Sanford and Cornwell spring to mind).
There are mystery writers who write with more technical proficiency (Larsson) and who write more twisted characters and plots (Flynn).
He has taken a character and placed him in a situation unlike that of any other character I have read.Lincoln Rhyme is an arrogant, egotistical and often unlikable man who happens to be a quadriplegic.
I admire that Deaver has taken a man in such a complicated situation and allowed him to be so relatable.
Time is of the essence as the groups rush to find them, discovering traps and dangers along the way as both Rhyme and Amelia both discover not everything is as it seems.I almost wanted to give this two stars.
But while it has that it also contains many surprises (and believe me, there are a lot of 'em!) that make up for it.If you want to read a tale about interesting characters and a plot with many twists I'd suggest you try this out...
but maybe only after you've read The Bone Collector (Rhyme's debut) first.
REVIEW OF AUDIOBOOK; SEPT 23; 2015Narrator: Richard TurnerI enjoyed this very much but don't want to say too much for fear spoilers. It's one of those books you just have to read for yourself. For the last quarter, I just couldn't see how Deaver was going to get Amelia out of the jam she'd gotten herself into but he did and I was happy with the way he did it.Narrator: Turner was okay but I didn't like his voice for Garret - it was too feminine. Even Amelia sounded more masculine than Garrett.
3 Stars (In my heart it should be 2.5)3 Stars for enough twists and turns at the end to make this book enjoyable. I really, really do not like Amelia Sachs as a character. AND!! The twists to the mystery were just a little too far-fetched and unbelievable. I know that truth is stranger than fiction, but commee ooonnnnn... really??I am just glad to be done with this. I am not sure about reading the next book. If I do, it will be in about 6 months; after I have cooled down.
The 3rd book in the Lincoln Rhyme series by Jeffery Deaver.Lincoln Rhyme is a former NYPD Homicide Detective who is now a Forensic Consultant since he became a quadriplegic. He is partnered with Amelia Sachs who acts as his eyes as she walks crime scenes.I have now all of this excellent series and remains as fresh as ever. There are also very good spin off series from this series.
Gelungenes Verwirrspiel, beim Kapitel Kommunikation muss man, auch in Sachen Auflösung, allerdings sämtliche Hühneraugen zudrücken.
