https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/480570.The_First_Man_in_Rome
I want to hug them, slap them, strangle them, lick them, and keep them in a special box with a fancy little bow to pull out and play with whenever I want a grand old time.Why I Re-Read This Book Over And Over:1) The Style.
As this book ends, Marius's sun is setting while Sulla's is on the rise and eventual success is in the hopeful offing.
After all, he learned from a master.And if the stick-up-the-ass blue bloods in Rome think they had trouble with Marius, just wait until Sulla's in charge.
5 godina sam molila i kumila i ubedjivala vlasnika Narodne knjige da radimo ovaj serijal...
Odbijao je to zbog obima knjige, više od hiljadu strana...
Govorila sam mu da svaki naslov podeli na tri dela i tako ga objavi...
Onda smo se vlasnik Lagune i ja družili tokom jednog snimanja za TV i u pauzama ćaskali o knjigama...
I onda sam njega počela da ubeđujem s istom argumentacijom...
Bogu hvala te me je poslušao posle kraćeg razmišljanja (a pre nego što sam omatorila i osedela)...
:) Tako da je prve delove objavio pre nego što sam ja došla u Lagunu za glavnog urednika :)
Monthly group read with Historical Fictionistas!A solid four stars, which will probably get bumped up to five once I get a chance to reread this in its entirety rather than listening to the abridged audiobook.
Don't get me wrong, the audiobook is fantastic, but...
abridged.
*shrugs* DOS did a fantastic job reading, as I knew he would, and McCullough's research shines through each of these characters.
I don't know how much of each character was made up and how much was historical fact (aside from Gaius Marius ruling for six unprecedented terms), and to be honest I really didn't care because that's how good the story was.
They do real damage, the power-men and the altruists.I've always been hesitant about reading The First Man in Rome, Colleen McCullough's magnum opus about the Roman Republic.
McCullough requires some pre-existing knowledge of her readers and it makes the book very engaging - it's like a dialogue between reader and author.In short, The First Man in Rome is a brilliant example of what historical fiction can be.And, yet, why can I not give the book 5 stars?Well, in short, some of the story is drawn out way beyond what I was able to pay attention to.
1154 pages… This book was a true test of willpower. But I made it… In the words of Caesar, 'Veni, vidi, vici.' Politics. Love. Lust. Murder.  Ancient Romans knew how to live it up at a meal.The sequel:  I am here for the drama.
The Thornbirds is just "eh" for me, her take on P&P made me really appreciate her as a skilled author and storyteller...but THIS book makes me revere and idolize her as one of the best authors in existance.This is an almost 1000 page book about the ancient Roman senate, and I was addicted to every single word.
She made this story so captivating that I was on the edge of my seat more than once-over such things as a massive grain shortage and the passing of a bill to grant basic Roman citizens (the 'Head Count') land.These people with their 3 and 4 word ridiculous names will quickly become real people, and by the end you'll feel like you've been reading about them for years.Totally awesome.
a larger-than-life, fascinating novel...Halfway through this book, I found myself with eyes full of dark circles.
Suffice to say, after reading The First Man in Rome, I am now more than willing to eat my words and bow at the brilliance of McCullough's writing.In an attempt to be objective, though, not every part of this story was that engrossing.
Rome with Marius at the helm of power, proved the most riveting part of the book.Other than that, I have only good things to say about this novel.
This isn't by any means an easy read, since she delves into the intricacies of Senate debates and internal politics, but it is quite unlike anything else that has been published on Rome.This is the first volume of her massive 7 book series, and probably covers the least-known period of Republican history: the rise of Marius and Sulla, and the transformation of the Roman army, arguably the first steps towards civil war and the fall of the Republic.There are times where (in this book) the characters slightly tend to soap opera, but they are few.
Overall, a superb read.
I've read the entire Man in Rome series - TWICE. 900 plus pages per book. My all-time-favorite books. I'd read them all yet again should I feel so compelled. I tried to get them all in hard-bound so I could keep them for my grandson to read. I'm only missing the one I loaned out. (Dang, I shouldn't do that!) In my opinion there is not a more definitive, comprehensive, and well researched set of novels written about the Roman Empire, Caesar in particular. Love history? Read, read, read!
First I have to compliment Colleen McCullough on her research. Truly an outstanding effort and very praiseworthy. Her glossary at the end of the book is excellent and one which I have referred back to more then once for just general information. Having said that I now have to state that the entire series has been going down in quality since the second installment  The Grass Crown . With the first two novels it is apparent that Ms. McCullough wrote them more or less simultaneously over a period o
The attention to detail is excellent, her characters come to life, they sound and act like Romans (Silly thing to write actually.
None of us actually know what ancient Romans sounded or acted like do we).
After a short while I felt like I was reading a prequel to Robert Graves classic novels about Claudius.
Instead of a series of Roman novels there is a soap opera with modern characters running around in togas.
by Robert Graves if you want truly entertaining fiction set in the Roman Empire.
I read Tom Holland's excellent Rubicon and knew I needed more--especially on Marius and Sulla, two of the most fascinating characters of this or any historical period.
I've read all seven, but my favorites are the first 3 or 4.I really appreciated the way she was faithful to the known history but filled in the unknown areas with reasonable and interesting guesses (e.g., Sulla's first wife probably wasn't Julius Caesar's other aunt, if he had more than one, but she was a Julia).
It's a fascinating and exhilarating story, and the best way I can think of to understand this important period of Western history.
Nevertheless, despite the length of this novel and the extremely intense subject material that it covers, I still found this highly enjoyable, and (while I can’t speak to the exact level of accuracy of McCullough’s Ancient Rome and her main characters of Marius and Sulla) I learnt an incredible amount from my reading experience.
This novel was highly recommended to me by a co-worker who knew I'd liked I, Claudius and Imperium: A Novel of Ancient Rome.
He said that although Colleen McCullough is best known for The Thorn Birds, she is actually a well-respected authority on ancient Rome.I have to admit that I approached The First Man in Rome with a lot of skepticism.
It sat on my shelf for two years before circumstances compelled me to start it...
I found it to be a compelling read, so much so that it's the first book I've read in a long time that has interrupted my normal routine (skipped exercise to read, stayed up late, ignored the TV...).
However, summarizing; it's over-long, the beginning (100+ pages) it's very disorganized, the narrative tricks get really old (the use of letters to cover historical and plot gaps is extremely annoying), the coverage of battles is minimal, the ending stretches far too long.
On the upside, the senate scenes are good and convincing, some of the characters are well developed, specially Sulla, and the Glossary is helpful (although better would have been a prose that doesn't require one).
It surprises me that lots of reviewers have called this the best historical novel they have read.
Now I look forward to read Santiago Posteguillo's "Africanus, el hijo del consul" which according to most reviews is a fantastic historical novel.
The First Man in Rome (Masters of Rome, #1), Colleen McCullough (1937), First Published: 1990عنوان: ماریوس در دربار سزار؛ اثر: کالین مک کالو؛ ترجمه: سالومه مهوشان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، سمیر، 1387، در 512 ص، شابک: 9789642200009؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان استرالیایی، قرن 20 م
The First Man In Rome by Colleen McCullough is a door-stopper of a book. Without the 100 page glossary, it clocks in at 931 pages. The premise of the book is that it details the rise to power of Gaius Marius, also known as the third founder of Rome. There's politics, sex, and war. Really, you would think the First Man in Rome would be right up my alley and take a short time for me to read. Eh, wrong.Read the rest of my review here
There are only so many ten-page letters an author can insert detailing the monotonous dealings of the Roman senate which don't so much as budge the cast one way or the other before the reader is skipping lines.
And to my horror––my absolute dismay––I found that there was not a single solitary (real) battle sequence in this book, or any of the kind of historical detail and attention Ms. McCullough gave the personal and political aspects.
The book is long and after five hundred pages the word 'slogging' will suddenly be in vogue in your vocabulary.
I had a hard time rating this book.
But that's a good thing here; the bit where Sulla slowly and covertly poisons an unwanted family memberwas amazing.On a personal note that might just be TMI for some, (view spoiler)[ this is also the first time I recall being sexually aroused by literature.
Not the first time I came across sex or sex scenes in literature of course, but the first time reading about someone's erotic feelings/encounter actually turned me on.
I would challenge any male renowned for his historical war fiction like Bernard COrnwell to write battle scenes that good, and I bet they would fail.
Okay, to be honest, I didn't finished this one. I was hoping more of a historical focused novel, rather than a fiction-romance with some historical background. So, I guess, 2 out of 5.
This was always going to be daunting - 1000 pages about an era I know nothing about, with a cast of dozens who each have at least three unpronounceable names to get my head around, plus the prospect of long wars and dreary politics which never hold my attention - so when my GR friend Diane Lynn also expressed an interest in reading it, the thought of tackling it as a buddy read was very appealing!There was a lot to enjoy, particularly Sulla's antics which started out as crazy debauched fun and ended as a future leader; I loved his interactions with Metrobius, Clitumna, Stichy, Nicopolis and Julilla, and enjoyed his warring philosophy 'why go to so much trouble when you can just kill them?' I also enjoyed the chapters which involved women, giving us relationships, squabbles and scandals to amuse and entertain.Although I also liked many of the male-dominated sections, the going got predictably tough for me during the endless wars, politics and info-dumps.
I just couldn't choke down any more of the flat characters, out-of-place dicticism, and stupid plotting.I went into this hesitant because I'm already predisposed to not like historical fiction.
This book just felt like bad, bad writing.I realize that part of the problem is that McCullough needs to "educate" her readers.
But the explanation, for instance, of Sulla's past is so ham-handed that I couldn't force myself to chug through several hundreds more pages of the like.I would rather just read a history book about Rome, or a dozen history books about Rome, than more of this.
This book is one of them.Having read Colleen McCullough before(and still will) I was keen to read the Masters of Rome series.
550/781, and I just couldn't push any further.The reason people don't like history is because they're told like this.
The reason people remember the exciting bits of history(fact or fiction) is because they keep you interested.
The First Man in Rome is like a university text book, written by a politician.
If I wanted something like this, I'd just read the bible.
650 pags leídas (57%), pero tiro la toalla.Está muy, muy bien ambientado.
Demasiado bien para mi gusto en novela.
Porque yo busco una novela, no una profusión asfixiante de detalles de la época.En novela histórica suelo tirar de búsquedas en la Red por curiosidad, pero con esta novela no me quedaban ganas.
Y lo peor : más que novela obre acontecimientos de la época es una descripción de las luchas internas del poder político del momento.Las “batallas” se resuelven en dos líneas y ¡hale!, sigamos con la política.
Se salvaba Augusta que ha salido poco pero tenía tirón.Resumen : Posteguillo, please, saca tú otra de Romanos!!
I'm late to the Masters of Rome party, so I will only say that this is truly one of the greatest series of all time and an incredible recreation of Rome in the time of the Crisis of the Republic. 8000 pages are not enough for what the writer is doing in these books. Colleen McCullough is a genius!
This book is addictive and I will read the next one in the series, "The Grass Crown".McCullough gives us possible personalities, motives, priorities and character traits of the major players in the rise to power of Gaius Marius.
We read of a possible relationship of Marius and Sulla, possible motives for and means of their military exploits and triumphs.The book has a wonderful glossary that gives everything from an analysis of the toga to the plausibility of the union of Sulla and the Caesar family that she poses in the novel.I would recommend that subsequent editions/printings include a more detailed table of characters.
I love this series. It is so historically accurate yet fictional. McCullough is gifted in her making Rome come alive
another reread of an all time favorite, again I have no idea how many so far but 10+ reads; still as engrossing as on first read and keeping its place in my top 5 books/series of all time - books 1-3 are just awesome, while the rest are excellent though marred by the author's deification of Caesar Marius and Sulla and an extraordinary supporting cast with high stakes politics, war, love, murders, and the best panoramic historical recreation of an era I've ever read
I Cladius meets Clan of the CaveBear
Bet tad tu paņem grāmatu rokās (man tas nejauši sanāca, kad biju izlasījusi nieka pirmās 600 lpp.) un uz 4.
vāka izlasi aprakstu, ka šī grāmata esot par "bagātu, bet zemas izcelsmes sievieti Mariju un nabadzībā grimušo aristokrātu Sullu".
Toties visa grāmata stāsta par izcilā karavadoņa Gaja Marija karjeru un panākumiem cīņā ar ģermāņiem.
:D Tā iet, kad it kā sīkumu uztic acīmredzot iztulkot cilvēkam, kas pilnīgi droši nav ne lappusi no grāmatas izlasījis.
Makkalova pamatīgi iedziļinājusies laika posmā, kad uz galu iet Romas republikas periods.
Glosārijs grāmatas beigās ir kolosāls un sniedz patiešām lielisku ieskatu Romas politiskās dzīves peripetijās.
I had wanted to start McCullough’s Rome series for the longest time, but was scared to death of it because I knew nothing of the time period and then there’s the massive size of this book.
For example, Marius (remember- I’m on a first name basis, I won’t be writing out full names) is off fighting battles quite a lot of the time.
I didn’t understand a lot of the politics and it just didn’t hold my attention.There is a lot I liked in this book.
Not only do I understand how the naming works, but these characters are so well done.
