https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961831.The_Shadowy_Horses
Verity Grey is an archaeologist who takes a job up in the Scottish Borderlands on a dig that maybe - just maybe - is the final resting place of the legendary lost Ninth Roman Legion.
Parts of this book rate 4 stars, maybe even 5, but I feel like I have to drop my rating because there was a big chunk in the middle where I got bored with the plodding mystery and super-slow-burning romance and skipped ahead, even though this is a fairly short book.* It's still sitting on my shelf,** so one of these times I'll give it another shot and maybe my rating will go up.The Shadowy Horses was recommended to me by an author friend who said it reminded her of Mary Stewart's books.* Okay, not really all that short; I just checked my paperback and it’s 350 pages.** This would be the bookshelf in my bedroom, which is reserved for books I REALLY plan to read, or reread.
I love me some Roman history, and I've read more books set in the UK than anywhere else, so this book pretty much sold me at "female archaeologist searching for the lost ninth Roman legion in Scotland".
I probably would have given it a solid three stars for that alone, but with such a gorgeous setting, lush prose, wonderfully developed characters - including a few very grey side characters, a likable, brainy MC with integrity and nerve, and a love interest that you fully understand her attraction to - ghosts, a psychic child, and a captivating plot, I had to bump it up to five.
Truly, I enjoyed this so much that I bought all of this author's other books after reading it.Proof:
- Sarah's Reading Guide for The Shadowy Horses -(1) Open google.(2) Load a picture of dry toast. Example:(3) Stare at toast for 3 minutes.(4) Leave the room. Trim your toenails.(5) Return to the computer. Stare at toast for another 3 minutes.(6) Close picture.Congrats! You've successfully duplicated the Shadowy Horses experience. Be proud -- you've saved yourself untold pain by not bothering with the tepid characters, bland plot, excruciating infodumps, cutesy humor, & nauseating romance of this book. Thank you, & goodnight.
Sometimes the formula works for me and sometimes it doesn't.I did like the setting of the archeological dig and the insertion of the Roman history that went with describing what the archeologists were looking for and discovering.
There was too much repetition on the whole, repetition of descriptions without any elaboration or development of the idea being described.
This story doesn't hang together well at all, and I'm not sure I will be reading any more of Kearsley's work.
A bit more romance-orientated than my previous read by this author (Mariana), I can still easily endorse Susanna Kearsley as fast becoming one of my favorite authors; one that is adept at creating a wide array of individual characters, as well as intricately setting up an atmospheric read.
Though Mariana will remain my favorite Kearsley (for now!), I loved The Shadowy Horses and think that this is an author that continues to impress and grow as a writer.
Shadowy Horses was another quick, enjoyable read by Susanna Kearsley.
It's not a time-slip like the others that I've read, but more of a contemporary ghost story, although it's really not what you would call a chilling one.
I expected a bit more of an eerie, Gothic atmosphere, and got more Scottish flavor instead (which is really not a bad thing).
The story centers on an archaeological dig in an old fishing town where a mad old scholar believes he's found the final resting place of the Roman Ninth Legion.
I enjoyed the details of the dig and the cast of characters involved.
I even liked the romance aspect of it.
My rating: 3.5 of 5 starsI won this book in a contest hosted by Reading Between the Wines and Sourcebooks.Shadowy Horses is centered around Eyemouth, which is an actual fishing port located in south-east Scotland.
The story references actual places and events including The Ship Hotel, the fish auctions and the Herring Queen Festival.
a Roman soldier that died over two thousand years ago.The Shadowy Horses is my third read by Susanna Kearsley and while it's not my favorite, it still managed to guarantee that this is one author I will be reading everything she writes.
It was one of those books where you say to yourself "I'll just finish this one chapter" and do that over and over again until you look up and 2 hours has gone by.
I always love Susanna Kearsley's writing and this book was no exception.
This book takes place in Scotland, like so many of her other stories.
The story effortlessly weaves historical facts with paranormal elements and dashes of romance.
I didn't like this story quite as much as "The Rose Garden", one of my all time favorites.
I still am giving this book a high rating because I loved it overall and have such respect for Kearsley's style.
He Bids His Beloved Be At PeaceI hear the Shadowy Horses, their long manes a-shake,Their hoofs heavy with tumult, their eyes glimmering white;The North unfolds above them clinging, creeping night,The East her hidden joy before the morning break,The West weeps in pale dew and sighs passing away,The South is pouring down roses of crimson fire:O vanity of Sleep, Hope, Dream, endless Desire,The Horses of Disaster plunge in the heavy clay:Beloved, let your eyes half close, and your heart beatOver m
Loved this.
Just as I've loved every other Susanna Kearsley book I've read.
And yes, if you've read her book The Firebird, this book is linked to it, predating it by about 20-25 years.
This one stays in the present though, not delving back into history like the other two I've read.
Her characters are fabulous, and by the end of the book, you feel like you know them all personally.
Highly recommended to those of you who love your history with little romance sprinkles on top.
I had expected something a little less fiction and a little more fluffy (Kind of like Elizabeth Lowell, who writes stories involving art history, book history, studies of artifacts, etc.
The plot, from the first page, picks up speed like a boulder rolling down a hill, and I couldn't put the book down until I had turned the last page.
There were even twists I didn't expect!The author mixes in some basic archaeological information, about the process, how things are done, and why they're done - which will help an archaeology-ignorant reader understand the dig, but briefly threw me out of the story on occasion, since I already know a bit about archaeology.
It's set in Eyemouth, a port town in the Scottish Borders, and I love the way Kearsley writes about Scotland.
It is clear from the very first page that she did a lot of research before beginning this book!This book only has one POV and we follow Verity, an archaeologist, as she moves to Eyemouth to take part in an archaeological dig looking for the Ninth Roman Legion, which was never been discovered.
I love Kearsley's descriptive writing style and she sets the scene so well.
At the beginning of the book Kearsley dedicates it to the people of Eyemouth and thanks them.
What can I say, I think Susanna Kearsley could write the back of a cereal box and I'd think it was marvelous, lol.
The Shadowy Horses was no exception, the setting was modern day Scotland with our main character Verity Grey an archaeologist accepting a job to help find the truth as to whether the lost Ninth Roman Legion is buried in a rocky field by the sea.
This story has everything, a charming hot Scottish leading man , great supporting characters, a wonderful setting (the windswept shores of Eyemouth Scotland), a ghostly sentinel, a loveable romance and a young boy who has the gift of "second sight".
Some samples of the beautiful writing:"The man, to my eyes, looked enormous, a great dark giant who moved over bracken and thorn with an effortless stride.
""The pungent smell of damp earth touched my nostrils like a sweet seductive scent, and I couldn't help but feel that tiny catch of excitement deep in my chest, that tingling thrill that all explorers must have felt from time immemorial.
Her name, is very appropriate for her, and the story :).It was enjoyable as well, seeing Robbie as a little kid, before the events of 'the firebird'...
One cup of ancient Roman Legion history, one cup of archaeology tidbits, one cup of modern Scottish coastal village atmosphere, full dollop of paranormal element and one tablespoon of the Scots language. Mix all ingredients together. Sprinkle romance and mystery on top and enjoy this wonderful creation!Warning: Consumption can lead to:1. Impulsive internet search on everything to do with Roman Legio IX Hispana and its disappearance.2. Overwhelming desire to visit the east coast of Scotland and,
One cup of ancient Roman Legion history, one cup of archaeology tidbits, one cup of modern Scottish coastal village atmosphere, full dollop of paranormal element and one tablespoon of the Scots language.
The main storyline revolves around an ancient mystery - what really happened to the Roman Legio IX Hispana.
Not only does the author weave together an interesting story about the archaeological dig and the relationships that form and stretch during the dig, but she also brings the past in and effortlessly weaves it into the story.The description of life in a small Scottish coastal village was beautifully done.
This was not up to the standards I have come to expect from this author.Story premise was interesting and the characters with all their contrasts and foibles should have carried the story. But it all fell flat for me.  At times there was too much detail and others not enough. It was as if the author got bored with her own story and just wanted to get it done and over. I was reading along and all of a sudden we went from zero to sixty. Neatly tied up with a bow and happily ever after? Huh?
When Verity Grey arrives in Eyemouth, Scotland, for an archaeological dig, she doesn't know exactly what to expect.
When she meets eccentric Peter Quinnell, who's financing the dig, she's intrigued by his theory that he's found the lost Ninth Legion of Rome.
However, Quinnell isn't working off solely archaeological evidence; there's a Roman ghost, and a small boy who can speak to him.
I thought the style started out a little overly descriptive (I could feel myself skimming a little in the early pages), but settled down and developed a particularly good sense of place.
2.5/5Picked this one up before reading The Firebird, which is the companion book to The Winter Sea but also features a character from this earlier novel. Frankly, The Shadowy Horses didn't do much for me. It's definitely not as good as The Winter Sea—the formula is very similar, but Kearsley has definitely grown as a writer since this one was published. That said, it did make me read up on Legio IX Hispana, so I know a bit more than I did previously. Yay for that, I guess.
We meet her main character, Verity Gray, as she arrives at an excavation site in Scotland, where her new boss is attempting to find evidence of the elusive Ninth Roman Legion, and even from her initial bus ride into town, we know there will be more discovered here than old bones.
Kearsley's Scottish setting is charming, her romantic involvement is sweet and understated, which is a welcomed relief from those authors who think they need to describe sex to us as if they were writing an instruction manual, and her discussions of the Roman archeological site are interesting and sometimes informative.
We all need a guilty pleasure--for the time being, Kearsley is mine.
What I liked: - the archaeology and Roman history lessons, - the main premise, - the setting, - Wally, Jeannie's dad.
Ha, no, really, I did like most of the secondary characters - even the annoying ones.
I enjoy reading Kearsley's books - though they tend to be populated with similar characters, it's fun to see them in slightly different positions this time around.
I loved The Winter Sea - both couples in that story had a lot of personality and chemistry.
But I've read three novels by SK since then, and they've all been tepid.
"You've only got one chance to get it right."I am not sure which is my favorite book from Kearsley.
Each one is unique in their own way, but I can always count on the budding romances, the suspenseful scenes, the harrowing twists, and a dab of supernatural occurrences that are a penchant in all of her wonderful novels.The Shadowy Horses is based in Scotland, about an archeologist who is invited to join an excavation to find the long lost fleet of the Legio Nona Hispana (Ninth Spanish Legion), dated to have disappeared without a trace around AD 107-108.
Its hardly a wonder why I finish these books with incredible speed.
Sally Armstrong reads the audiobook, and has done a good job with the various voices and accents, from cultured Anglo-Irish gentry to upper-crust English to “braed Scots.” The heroine’s Scots dictionary proves invaluable in translating Scots terms for the reader as well as for Verity herself.All the threads of the story held my attention, from the interpersonal relationships of the group of archaeologists working on the dig and others connected to the Rosehill household, to the young psychic, Robbie McMorran, and the ghost only he can see, to the quest for the Ninth Legion itself.
Verity, the protagonist of The Shadowy Horses, is a far cry from the gentle personalities shared by both Carrie and Sophie of The Winter Sea. Instead, I find her to be a much more modern, ambitious woman, driven by her passion for her history and her belief in the impossible.
Whatever the reason may be, I enjoyed the love story that played out between Davy and Verity far more than I did either of the romances in The Winter Sea - and I really adored those romances when I read them.
A Susanna Kearsley book always reemphasizes for me why I love reading and why quality writing always wins out over filler and flash.
Instead of focusing this post on reviewing The Shadowy Horses though, I am going to discuss more why I love Susanna Kearsley and highly recommend this author!For me, what elevates Susanna Kearsley's novels is the development of the setting and the characters.
Though the formula for The Shadowy Horses is similar to Mariana and The Winter Sea, the setting and characters are completely different and I found all the related history to the Ninth Roman Legion fascinating.
My first read of the year.
I love Susanna Kearsley’s books, and I save them to give myself a treat at the start of the year.
This one was an early effort, and is mid-range for her, Winter Storm being my favorite up to now.
I sank into the world she created, embraced Roman ghosts and people with the “sight”, which struck a familiar chord from my Celtic bloodlines.
Archeology, the border country, it all was pleasing and was a great place to spend the dark nights of winter.
A great start to my reading year.
In fact, this story has that elusive quality that I am always searching for in a novel - room to breathe.Set in the windswept moors of the Scottish borderlands, in a coastal village still lingering under the miasma of a terrible disaster that claimed the lives of its menfolk a hundred years past.I adore stories that have dual timelines running at the same time, and this one came close to having three.
I wish the author had done so, I hope another will.Back to the book itself, the characters are well drawn, with the exception of the love interest, my second complaint.
Like Mary Stewart, Kearsley is able to deliver atmosphere, excellent description of the setting and very likeable characters.THE SHADOWY HORSES (aka ROSEHILL) is different from The Winter Sea and Mariana in that the heroine does not experience flashbacks to a previous life.
Instead we have a young local boy who is both seemingly prescient and also open to communication with ghosts from the past, in this case all the way back to 110-120 AD and the mysterious disappearance of the Ninth Roman Legion involved in the occupation of Britain at that time.If you have seen the 2011 movie The Eagle or read Rosemary Sutcliff's 1954 book, The Eagle of the Ninth, which the movie is based on, you'll be familiar with this topic.
There is no evidence for this, beyond a small boy's vision of a Sentinel protecting the site.Verity is pulled into Peter's vision of the site being the Ninth's marching camp, and into the boy Robbie's visions.
Peter's granddaughter Fabia is the site photographer.At first Verity is suspicious of Robbie's abilities, but as the novel progresses, she becomes his staunchest ally, especially after the Sentinel manages to communicate with them through Robbie, and she realises that he is protecting her personally, and those she loves.This is a novel that is every bit as good as The Winter Sea and Marianna, and makes me even more determined to find and read more of Kearsley's books.Re-read March 2013
not me- or a Scotsman for that matter ;)- the Scots terminology, slang, colloquialisms, the dry humour- just enough archeological detail- loved the Scottish history - the Herring Queen Festival, The Great Disaster of 1881 and the tapestry made by Eyemouth women to record in stitches the names of the 189 lost fishermen on Black Friday.Susanna Kearsley's writing reminds me a little of one of my all time favourite authors Barbara Erskine, that beautiful, lyrical, haunting style I love.
If her other books are anything similar then I know this author will fast become a favourite.
Complete with ghosts, an unnervingly psychic child, and the gorgeous highlander David Fortune, The Shadowy Horses is a spine tingly, hair raising good read.
Rather, he has initiated this project on the stories of a young local boy, Robbie, who has seen the ghost of a Roman soldier walking about the grounds.
Verity is naturally skeptical of the whole project in the beginning, but becomes more convinced of the validity of Peters claims and Robbie's psychic abilities as the ghostly sentinel begins to follow Verity around and horses who do not exist by day run beneath Verity's window by night.
I thought the paranormal aspect of this book would play a bigger role than it did and so I kept waiting for more about the Sentinel or for Verity to eventually see him, but that never happened.
I also thought this book would more about what happened to the ninth legion, but Kearsley doesn't really put forth a theory on what happened to them exactly.
The focus again, was on the actual people in the book, which were great, just not what I was expecting.I knew going in that this wasn't most people's favorite Kearsley and it seems that for once I agree with the masses.
