https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13222.Charlotte_and_Emily_Bront_
NOTA: Este tesoro precioso (precioso!!) me regaló my brother... para que olvide este episodio de nuestras vidas, supongo XD
I think when I was younger, death was more of a concept than a reality, so the idea of the eternal after-death love of Catherine and Heathcliff was satisfactory, when now, after experiencing so much of my own personal loss, all that's left is the folly of losing all of that living time they could have been together over pride and jealousy and the expecataions of others.
It wouldn't be the same story any other way, but this time it left me just feeling hopeless.
Basically - it was best the first time and should be read as a teen, but I'll probably never read it again.
In the dark shadow of Mary Shelley, here come The Bronte Sisters!Masterfully written tales of tragedy and work with touches of romance hither and thither. These tales are most definitely classics to be read and reread time and again throughout the generations. Though the 19-Century English makes the novels a bit difficult to read, they are not hard to follow. And though a foreboding shadow looks over most of their tales, a touch of femininity peeks in throughout. Their poetry holds the same bipolar allure. Amazing classics! Do I really need to say that I recommend these books? LOL
Ho letto e riletto Cime Tempestose e Jane Eyre molte volte. Credo che non si possa dire di aver davvero apprezzato la letteratura classica senza aver letto qualcosa delle sorelle Bronte.Consigliato sia come lettura che come ri-lettura!!
You know, I've read Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights, both of which are in this book, but none of the rest of Charlotte's works. One of these days I need to get around to that.
All the stories in this book were amazing! I loved Jane Eyre the most.
I've only read Jane Erye, and I LOVE it! It's such a great classic.
10/2 I am giving myself a break from this series becuase I just can't seem to get into Shirley - I know little about the industrial revolution in turn of the century England and this book is thick with references to the political goings on during this era.
Maybe I can study the history first and then I'll understand what the heck Bronte is writing about.9/21 - Second book in the Series: Wuthering Heights - 4 stars.
If only Heathcliff had been raised in an environment of respect and nurtured rather than shunned - how differently his sad life would have turned out.8/27 First book in the series: Jane Eyre - 4 stars.
I own this book - this edition, actually, and I have to say it's a wonderful thing to have on my shelf.
It's lovely, and big!!
Jane Eyre is one of my all-time-favorite books.
I could pick it up and start reading anywhere.
Villette was incredibly sad, but I really, really liked it.
The story drew me in and I had to know how it would end.
Wuthering Heights is just a strange, strange novel about pathetic, selfish, people.
I read it because it's that book everyone is like, "ugh I hated that book!" I loved it.
I've read Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights and will be moving on to Shirley.
It's been interesting to see the difference between the sisters' writing.
Though both have written the "hero" as a very dark, mysterious, and somewhat cruel man, they have both also included the reasoning behind the actions of these men...what pushed them to this extreme.
Anyway, this was definitely one of the good gifts I received from my sister.
She decided to get me a book one year after seeing a bag I owned that said a good friend would buy me a book I've never read.
I bought this book because my daughter had to read Jane Eyre for school, and I decided I would read it along with her. I ended up purchasing this collection of all the works by Charlotte and Emily Bronte. My daughter found Jane Eyre very hard to read and hated the book when it was over. I enjoyed Jane Eyre and then went on to read Wuthering Heights. I did not enjoy Wuthering Heights as much. It just seems such a dark story.I'm currently reading Shirley, and so far have not been able to get into the story.
All the Bronte books have always fascinated me. There is a new BBC version of the movie on PBS right now that puts Heathcliff in a whole new light. Maybe the way we've always pictured Heathcliff isn't who Emily really created.Merged review:A book shouldn't be judged by the pretty picture on the cover, right? Jane was always the perfect heroine to read about when I wanted to be a little spooked.
After reading Jane Austin, I despised 19th century England. They appeared motivated by greed and wealth. While you get this sub-current with the Bronte sisters, you get a real feel for England. The picture of the industrial revolution but with stories of classes of people not stuck in the r7uling class. The development of their characters is the true accomplishment Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights are of course good, but I was also pleased with the lesser known works.
I read this book as a teenager and loved it. I think my mom gave it to me as she'd had it when she was young. The only downside I would say, is that about two thirds of the way through the story does seem to get a bit lost and slightly boring but it soon picks up and keeps you turning pages till the end!
Why are certain books readable over and over again? Why do we seem to see more in them each time? Learn things each time we didn't realize were there? The Brontes are in this class. It's a depth of insight, observation, feeling, ... about life, about people, the self, the world, the universe ... which, in a lifetime of reading, I've been fortunate to find in just a few authors.
So far I've read Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights. I love Jane Eyre She is one of my favorite characters in all of literature. This is one of my would-read-again books. Wuthering Heights was a little disturbing and not at all what I expected from vague references on TV, etc. I didn't like it very much although the writing was of course excellent. Too dark for my taste.
Yet another excellent value from this line purchased back in halcyon youth working in the Media Play book department. I've only read  Wuthering Heights and  Jane Eyre from this, so I'm not really in a position to rate it.Where's lonely Acton Bell in all of this, I ask?
I struggled with reading this story. It just seemed so dark and I didn't like how every relationship was a bad match. I kept hoping that something good would happen but it never really did happen. Don't know that I would read it again.
mich better AS any movie
revkiew
I stopped reading this to read another book for Book Club and couldn't get back into it. I didn't finish - I couldn't!
I love delving into the writing of a bygone time. Jane Eyre has been a favourite since I was about 9 years old - I keep this on my shelves and re-read it from time to time
My favorite gothic novel. I'm not sure why by the darkness of the story and the angst of the characters interest me.
got this book from an old book shop in a village for a pittance. an amazing feeling to have this gilded copy.
Didn't do anything for me. Tedious, slow and unlikeable characters.
6/25/2005
Beautifully haunting stories.
I have only read WUTHERING HEIGHTS and JANE EYRE. I hope to read the others in the next few weeks. Have any of you read SHIRLEY or VILLETTE or THE PROFESSOR?
I really enjoyed reading these novels. I had only read Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights prior to checking this volume out at my local library.
I enjoyed Wide Sargasso Sea much more.
