https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1024648.The_Rising_Tide
This book is very atmospheric and completely time, place, and character-driven.
Time passes, and the characters grow older, but there really aren't many dramatic turns.
Most of the drama takes place in the characters' minds and perceptions.
The two houses, Garonlea and Rathglass, represent the two time periods (along with their cultural mores), depicted in the book.
Garonlea is the severe Neo-Gothic manor, with its unhappy vibrations and Edwardian constraints, and Rathglass, the more natural, bright, modern house filled with flowers and Jazz Age parties.
Cynthia tries her best to white out the gloominess of Garonlea and turn it into a light-filled, cream-colored, cocktail-filled party house.
She takes on a broader time period than I've seen in her other books, ranging thirty years, in order to bridge the generation gap from the 1900s to the 20s and explore how the power dynamics change not only with the person in charge but with the constraints of each period.
Eventually, Cynthia rises to full power, ready to cause her own damage to the next generation.The Rising Tide has a much darker, more sinister tone than Keane's black comedies.
This is not comedy at all, but an exploration of power as it inevitably fails and falls to the next generation, a picture of the women in power as they slide toward the edge.
Four and a half.
In The Rising Tide, Molly Keane contrasts brilliantly the Edwardian era with its strict rules of propriety, fussy clothing and the kind of rigid conventions that so often imprisoned unmarried women in dull lives at home, with the freer, party years of the 1920’s. The title reflects the rise of Cynthia, but also those tidal like waves of time, the years pass, and one generation is replaced by the next, the conflicts of one mirrored in the next – time after time.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
Like Iris Murdoch at her peak, Molly Keane, showcases the power of personality to devastating effect.I am drawn to books that feature women with limited choices; it fascinates me to see how they cope and often flourish.
Keane has taken this situation a step further: it is not just that her young women are living in a rural setting with limited society (and, of course, no suggestion of working.
Several years ago at a book/author luncheon the presenting novelist was asked the question "what makes a book good"?
Molly Keane is a thought-provoking author and one definitely worth reading.
I enjoyed the atmosphere of Garonlea, the awful family stately home, and the characters were interesting, but I got very bored by the endless descriptions of hunting and horses.
I loved this cleverly-written novel about the vicissitudes of a wealthy Anglo-Irish family living in a gloomy pile of stone called Garonlea in the early 1900s.
It's really the story of two women -- the matriarch Lady Charlotte who rules her household with an iron fist; and later, her daughter-in-law Cynthia.
I couldn't like either woman, mainly because they treated their children so badly, but it was an engrossing tale and I couldn't wait to find out if the charming and self-absorbed Cynthia would ultimately lose her little empire.
Molly Keane's writing closely observes the inner thoughts of an Anglo Irish family across the decades from before WWII and just afterwards.
There is no comfort to be drawn from the chillingly self obsessed characterization of the two Mothers in this story who are really quite monsterous.
The writing is clever and can be humorous but always interesting in style.
I wanted so much for the family to stand up to these two women that sometimes I wanted to throw the book but the denouement for both was beautifully created.
A good story of how miserable it was to be an unmarried woman at the turn of the 20th century. We often forget how far we've come. There is still inequality, but nothing like then. Darker, deeper, less funny than other Keane novels. That's good for me, because I don't like her cynical humor that much.
Pas ma tasse de the. Je me suis de plus en plus ennuyee au fil des pages. Snif. :(
Pas ma tasse de thé. Je me suis de plus en plus ennuyée au fil des pages. Snif. :(
Things like the first world war, the home rule question...The women are the major players in this book, and Keane has created some real monsters.
This all starts with the mother, Lady Charlotte, who is a snob and a despot who rules over her daughters and every aspect of their lives.
Cynthia may be a more personable woman, but she makes her own childrens' lives a misery, forcing them into horseriding and hunting when they clearly have no interest.
It's just a continuation of generations torturing the others, and as children grow up and get their independence, they start to turn on their elders, as both Charlotte and Cynthia gradually find out.
I bought this Virago edition many years ago and stumbled on it during a recent/current illness. I got very absorbed in it and really enjoyed it. The story is personal and societal and illuminating. I find a certain resonance with a story about people living in a privileged bubble (as the Anglo-Irish did for centuries.) This book doesn't offer options for the rest of us, but it's a good portrait of entitled ceaselessness. It just sort of suited me right now!
Brilliant and riveting and lyrical, despite the distanced writing style.I'll be hunting out more Molly Keane(Virago need to get their act together editorially though - such a quantity of typos and errors!)
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12862740
I didn't really like Molly Keane as a teenager. But I re-discovered her in my late 20s and am now a huge fan. It was a pleasure to re-read this old favourite again.
I read this years ago. Set in the early twenties in Ireland, it’s about a family under the control of a strong matriarch broken by events in the First World War.
