https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2337326.Black_Oxen
The story takes place within New York’s high society and there is much criticism of both the older and younger generations in the 1920s.
Black Oxen is certainly well-written, although the frequent delving into philosophy about youth and age, experience and responsibility, among other things, throws off the pacing in the last 100 or so pages.
Yeats and Atherton both received what was known as the Steinach treatment, which was supposed to do exactly what the operation in Black Oxen did: restore youth, not just in terms of physical appearance, but mental ability.
A very unusual mixture of AGE OF INNOCENCE with the fantasy fiction of H.G. Wells.Into New York society enters a young Austrian Countess who sparks interest in the upper class, and among the flapper-prone Sophisticates.
The Countess bears a striking resemblance to one of the luminaries who ran among New York society over two decades before.
The film literally ended just before the Countess' revelation, so I had no idea of why reviews referenced the "regained youth" plot line.
I've known about Gertrude Atherton for some time (since I was doing research on turn-of-the-century San Francisco and came across her name as one of the leading authors of the area) but I haven't had a chance to read any of her work until now.
This book is, sadly, not set in San Francisco but I enjoyed it.
The premise is a fascinating one and the book is reminiscent of Edith Wharton, though Atherton is a little more overt with her philosophizing and less subtle than Wharton.
Atherton was also known as a feminist and I can certainly see evidence of that in this book.

this is turning into a science fiction novelScience fiction..political commentaryInteresting in that it is written in that period between the World Wars, when there was an economic depression and political upheavals not even guessed at in the offing. I would venture to guess that the suggestion of Bismarck was very deliberate.But it ends up in the Cheap Words wagon.
As luck would have it someone has posted the silent movie version on YouTube.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4xQod...
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
Fascinating "what if" romance that will be especially appreciated by those who love New York City.
The story is set in the transition period from the post-WWI Gilded Age to the 1920's.
I knocked it back a star because the author has some distasteful, if only glancingly referenced, fascist sentiments.
But the many characters are all distinctly drawn and the scenes of New York life are eternal, although the specific restaurants and theaters described have been gone for 90 years.
Would love to see the silent movie version!If you enjoy Edith Wharton give Gertrude Atherton a try.
This was interesting and well-characterised if prone to tacitly endorsing the worst of 1920s political and social attitudes - i.e. That one disturbing section about how rejuvenation procedures link naturally to eugenics, as they will allow the 'best' people to live longer and more productively.
The central conflict of Mary Zattiany existing as a 58 year old woman in a 28 year old's body is examined from all possible angles, arguably too many as the book does start to drag after a while.
Mary is an unusual character, and one I'll be thinking about for a while.
Wordy. Published in the early 1920s. Made into a movie with Clara Bow. Interesting historically.
This is an audiobook from LibriVox.http://librivox.org/black-oxen-by-ger...
