https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107775.Castles
This is the last book in the Crown's Spies series and, IMHO, it's the best in the series.
I don't know if I'm being sentimental here because this was the last Garwood I had on my TBR and now I've got to go out and buy some more, but it doesn't matter.
I loved it, hence the 5-star rating.
I don't want to do it now because it would be like saying goodbye to Garwood and I'm not ready to do that yet.
I'm holding on to this book until I add more Garwoods to my TBR.
The Duke has a plan to marry Alesandra off to one of his sons, Colin, in order to keep the general from marrying her.When Alesandra arrives at the Duke and Duchesses home, the family comes down with a stomach illness and so they send her to stay with their other son, Caine, and his wife and daughter.
But before he can help her he too falls ill.While nursing Colin back to health, Alesandra starts to care for Colin.
One of the funniest parts in the book is when Colin and Alesandra are at the Duke and Duchesses house to decide what is to be done with her.
lol It isn’t a real 5 stars read but I am giving it a 5 star rating for old time’s sake.The story is about a princess Alessandra, who had been living in a convent first with her ailing mother and later just by herself with the sisters.
Once the duke heard about the evil general, he had proposed to let Alessandra marry his second son, Colin, who was still unmarried.
Colin realized that he actually liked the princess but still did not want to get married.
I liked Colin and Alessandra as characters.
★★★★✩ The narrator, Heather Wilds, was fine, especially with the male voices (unusual, right?).
They did get a little "thicker" as the story progress, too.
Or was that my imagination?
However, she really drove me a little batty with the heroine, as I felt she was making Princess Alesandra's accent change from scene to scene.
Sure, Alesandra is a princess from a made up country in Europe...
but pick an accent and stick with it, don't give me French, Dutch, and then Russian, etc.
Still, the story holds up and made me smile a lot and laugh out loud more than once.
everything,and i mean everything,either had me rolling my eyes,scoffing, or sighing loudly.ive read julie garwood books before, and while i wouldn't run out and buy them, i definitely don't remember them being this terrible.Let me wrap up the whole book for you-colin tried not to laugh.alesandra burst into tears.a smidgen of stuff about a lady killer.some random stuff.dumb conversatioins.stupid characters.the end.the characters were horrible with a capital H, and that includes main and side characters.no one had any real substance.&they were all annoying.Garwood really tried to sell the point home about her being beautiful and amazing.Ive seen authors convey that the main characters are really pretty without going into all this extravagant speech.
Oh thank God this series has redeemed itself. Though I admit,the plot was really a chaos... There are so many plotting points to be considered. Too many things going on. There are more than one antagonist...But the cleverness and wittiness of the characters made up the plot's flaw. :) I am so in love with Colin and Alessandra... Though Colin can be a misogynist pig, his sweetness and possessiveness over Allesandra made him still lovable.. :)
Another wonderful story from Julie Garwood
Princess Alesandra and Colin the stubborn so and so.Colin is the kind of person who would cut off his nose to spite his face, and he's got that snarky type of arrogance I usually hate in Heroes.
And I did hate it, yet I did end up liking him.
For far too long Colin is a stubborn asshat to Alesandra.
Like an opposite to Colin's character who is the quintessential charmer and likes to tease.
The action was brief and straight forward.I really liked the way the author turned around Colin's character towards the end of the story.
We have a serial killer and a evil general who are both after the princess.
The serial killer storyline was wrapped up, but the evil general storyline was kinda dropped.
Overall, the resolution was very quick.Most of the fun of her books is seeing the gruff hero who doesn't need anyone realize how much the heroine means to him and how strong/valuable she is as a partner.
Then *boom* it seems like within 2 pages he's realized she is a financial genius and was right about the serial killer all along, then the book is over.
I think compared to her other books in this series the romance is slow to start but I liked that. The heroine is one I love, intelligent and smart!
4.5
Let's call it 4-and-a bit stars :)I finished listening to this audiobook with a huge smile on my face. Yes – there were some aspects of the book as a whole that I found problematical, but an excellent performance by Heather Wilds – a narrator I will certainly be looking out for in future – helped me see (or hear) past those issues, and just sit back and enjoy the story for what it was; a well-written and well-performed piece of romantic fluff. Castles  is the fourth book in Ms. Garwood’s Crown’s
Yes – there were some aspects of the book as a whole that I found problematical, but an excellent performance by Heather Wilds – a narrator I will certainly be looking out for in future – helped me see (or hear) past those issues, and just sit back and enjoy the story for what it was; a well-written and well-performed piece of romantic fluff.
I haven’t read or listened to the other three, but I’d say it’s not necessary to do so in order to enjoy this one.The heroine of the story is Alesandra, princess of some unspecified, European principality, who was orphaned at the age of twelve and brought up in a convent.
RTC
(I'd go about 4 stars for the narration)The story itself  is not my favorite historical by Garwood, but it's okay.
I liked Colin's devoted butler, Flannaghan, who fell over himself for "his" princess, Alesandra.
I liked Alesandra's cleverness, surreptitiously handling Colin's ledgers and finding a way to ease his wounded leg.
Colin is often grouchy, but I liked him, too.
He made me laugh a little (but I didn't laugh during this book as much as during some of Garwood's other historicals).I could not buy the reasons given for Alesandra to move in with a bachelor.
Somehow in my younger days I completely missed how creepy this book is in it's "read between the lines" way.
Unfortunately Alesandra is a complete Door.Mat. And I've wanted to throw the book every time Colin treats her like a child (too numerous to count).
It's gross and creepy that these two hook up as Colin treats her more like a child than a partner; which makes him a mental pedophile (kinda?
I just finished a PBS special on feminism that was really inspiring and positive and then I read this book on 'How to Bully One's Wife.' I feel better now.
Osjećala je teškoće svoga vremena i teškoće koje pruža ženama, ali umjesto da se okomljavala na muškarce oko sebe pronalazila je način da okrene stvari u svoju korist svojom inteligencijom, a muškarci su sami shvaćali njenu mudrost i poštovali je.Glavna junakinja je golemi plus ovoga djela.Glavni junak je bio zavodnik kakvi su karakteristični za ove romane, ali se nije hvalio time kao što su to većinom činili junaci u drugim romanima i njegova žena nije oduševljeno prihvatila njegove prošle avanture.
Yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa. COLIN yaaa. Eşşoğlueşek. <3Kusursuzdu. Çünkü o Garwood. Cmon. Bu serinin kadınları da erkekleri de favorim. Ahhhh ama bu eşşoğlueşek Colin var ya. Yaaaaaaaaaaa ölürüm! Kesinlikle mükemmel. Bellisimo. Oh-lala. Awwwwwesome!
Muhteşem bir serinin sonu da ancak böyle güzel bir şekilde olabilirdi.Bu serinin kadın karakterlerini erkeklerden daha çok seviyorum.
The fourth book in the Crown's Spies series by Julie Garwood. Princess Alesandra ends up on Colin's doorstep when everyone in his family ends up ill and he is forced to assume guardian duties while his family recuperates. Funny and fun. Another enjoyable read by Ms. Garwood.
#benimyerimseninyanin *_*Bu seriyi bastan beri cok severek okudum ki Julie'nin sevmedigim tarihi kurgusu da yok ki arkadas:)) Ama bu seriden ayrıca bir keyif aldığım da bir gerçek.
Delirttiler adamlari hepsi de:))Bu kitabimiz 2.kitapta gonlumuzu çalan Caine'cigimizim kardesi, 3.kitabin kahramani Nathan'ın ortağı, yunus lakapli, yaralı (kobekbaligi hart demisti bacagina hatirlarsaniz:D ) Colin'imiz <3_<3 ve de dedigim gibi çatlak Prenses Alesandra'nin hikayesini anlatiyor.
talihsizlikler sonucu Alseandra'nın vasiligi gorevi bir süreliğine Colin'in üstüne kalır.
^^Son olarak, Serinin ilk kitabindaki Lyon ve Christina bu kitapta hic gecmedi.
Diger 3 kitap akrabalik iliskileriyle tam bir seriyken Lyon'un kitabi ayrik otu gibi kaldi.
Kitap için derin düşünceler içindeyim efenim.
:DŞöyle ki başlarda başımı ağrıttı çok.Kitabın içine giremedim bu yüzden.Serinin diğer kitapları gibi değil,Julie üzgünüm ama bu olmamış diyordum ki bütün düşüncelerim kitabın yarısından sonra değişti.
Diğer Julie kitapları gibi okurken keyif almaya başladım.Julie sana söylediğim bütün sözleri geri alıyorum yine harika bir kitap yazmışsın dedim bitirince de.Colin ve Alensandra nın hikayesi de güzeldi.Okurken dize güldürecek bolca sahne vardı.Ama dediğim gibi başlarda biraz beklediğimi bulamadım gibi.Bunda sanırım birazda Colin etkili.Beyimiz bildiğin hödük yani.Alesandra saf,aptal görüntüsü veriyor kendisine bilerek ama aslında çok zeki.Ve kocasına fazlasıyla aşık bir kadın.Zaten Julie den bahsediyorsak farklı bir şey beklenemez.Kızlarımız çok naz yapmadan kocalarına aşık oluyorlar ve onlar için mücadele ediyorlar.Caine ve Jade ile Nathan ve Sara yı da görmek çok güzeldi.Gerçi Sara nın adı geçti sadece sonlara doğru bir göründü ama olsun.Colin,Caine,Nathan ve Alesandra sahnelerini çok sevdim.Gerçi çoğu yerini secdim kitabın ama bu sahneler aşırı eğlenceliydi.
I hated Colin.
I despised how he spoke to Alesandra as if she was a child.
He spoke to her very rudely.
He made her do things she didn't want to do and what made me more upset was that Alexandra allowed it.
She wants to come off as a strong and independent woman.
I couldn't read any further.
I had 3 hours and 30 minutes left to read in the book, and couldn't waste those hours of my life.
I hate books with leads such as these two.
This one I outright hate and had to say no more.
Creo que Alesandra es una de las chicas más "inteligentes" de Garwood, sigue siendo una persona peculiar pero es muy astuta, inteligente y perspicaz.
Es organizada y piensa con la cabeza fría (la mayoría de las veces).
Colin es un soltero renegado, con un mapa trazado de su vida y ni Alesandra ni ninguna otra mujer está en sus planes.
Hay barreras de confianza que atravesar pero lo hacen bien, a un ritmo tranquilo.La trama secundaria ,"el asesino", es relleno porque la historia pudo haber funcionado tranquilamente sin su añadido.
Entretiene y me alegra porque lo compré sin leerlo y me alegro que haya funcionado.
DNF.
I now understand how readers that read Julia Quinn and don't get why those of us that do love her feel.
Julie Garwood's books seem to be beloved, but I don't get it.
There were a few funny parts but this book was overwhelmingly boring.
And I don't understand why the nuns wanted rid of her so badly in the beginning because she seems to just accept everything that comes her way or she cries about it.
I don't know that Julie Garwood is for me.
Given that this novel has a high average rating of 4.11, I seem to be in the minority, but in addition to the fact that there were several aspects of the story that reminded me why I avoid most historical romances, this book was also very poorly written.
The use of the adjective "sexy" once (yeah, it was that kind of book) is an embarrassing mistake, but I would have let it pass.
Sure, the setting was 1820 and that term wasn't used (at least in the way you mean) until a whole century later, but still, one time I might let it slide.
But FOUR times?
3.5 disapointing stars.Miss Garwood you are one of my favourite authors!But I was so disapointed with this one...Characters were shallow,feelings not well written...I so hope that next one will be better,I'm not quiting on you...
The Crown Spies series was another great series by Garwood and I'm so disappointed that this is the last book.Princess Alesandra and Colin were such a cute couple.
Colin married her in order to protect her from being forced into marriage by a man who was trying to gain her inheritance.
One of my favorite scenes is when the entire family is having dinner and Colin announces to the family that he and Alesandra are getting married.
Alesandra doesn't want to marry Colin since he denied her previous proposal.
While at dinner he told everyone at the table that they had to get married because he and Alesandra 'slept' together.
She's kind, sharp as a tack and mostly a good judge of character.She has to be married soon, so that the evil General Ivan doesn't get control of her money and use her, as PRINCESS, to get her country back.
Yes, that wasn't a surprise to any of US, but it was to him.There is a sub-plot of a serial killer that had me guessing just who it would turn out be.I was annoyed with the way that Colin tried to keep Alesandra in a box, where he thought that a wife should be...he didn't take her intelligence into the equation.
Have you ever read a romance series & liked one of the secondary characters?
She's a typical JG heroine (drop dead beautiful, intelligent, nice & generous).
She's actually smarter than a typical JG heroine, in fact smarter than Colin.
There's a secondary story about a serial killer.
We get to see Jade & Caine, Nathan & Sara.
Alesandra has to stay with the unmarried Colin due to a mysterious stomach ailment that has cut through Colin's parents & Jade & Caine.
Colin acts like a jerk through the first part of the story.
Very disappointing, because I liked him in the other stories.
It wasn't my favorite in the Crown's Spies series (those would be The Gift, then Guardian Angel), but I did like it quite a lot.
Alesandra was a lot tamer than the other ladies in the series, and I loved that she had a great head for business (and a bod for sin - sorry, couldn't help myself).
Despite my enjoyment, I can't help but note that pieces of their story seemed to rely on more tell than show.
Despite my hangups, I did truly enjoy Castles.
It was a nice way to round out the Crown's Spies series, and I do recommend them all.
