https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15012.The_Haunted_Screen
Una magnífica panorámica por la historia del primer cine alemán en la que Lotte Eisner, una de las más grandes escritoras sobre teoría y análisis del cine, revisa a través de los recursos cinematográficos y estéticos utilziados en éstas las grandes películas del llamado expresionismos alemán. Imprescindible.
Another book read for my Weimar Cinema class.
Almost an unsettling detachment from plots and a focus purely on aesthetics permeates this page.
Like Kracauer, Eisner occasionally mentions films that aesthetically predict Nazi style but no judgement is made of them.
I'm often interested in purely aesthetics too but I find her complete disinterest in plots to be alienating and frankly creepy.
The book is mostly photographs and descriptions of the visual images of films, with little analysis and no thesis.
Lotte Eisner's great book length study on German Expressionist films. She has the final word, with respect to this subject. Hell, she knew these people as well!
Twenty-five years ago I took a film theory class as part of my college degree, and was given a list of 9 books as required reading.
Surprisingly, I got an A- for the class despite not reading any of them.
I tried to start reading one or two of the books, but the subject matter was far too abstract for me to care about.
Over time, I gave all the books away except for this one, and finally, last week, I pulled this one off the shelf and started reading.
German Expressionist cinema is one of my favorite styles, which was most prevalent in the 1920's. Eisner's examination of this, and the influence from the great German stage director, Max Reinhardt is a must read for anyone interested in this topic.
She does give fascinating information about the filming of some of the great movies that do survive, however, movies like M, Metropolis, Faust, Nosferatu and Pandora’s Box. She seems to regard Murnau and Lang as the greatest of the German film-makers of that era, a judgment one can’t really argue with.
She also has a very high regard for Louise Brooks, the brilliant American actress whose reputation rests entirely on her two German movies, Pandora’s Box and Diary of a Lost Girl, and she believes that Brooks’ contribution to the success of those films was immense.


Great insight into German Expressionist Film
книга, которую нужно прочесть каждому кинокритику, чтобы осознать свое меcто в этой мире.
Awesome. And a lot of the key film references can be found on netflix instant streaming. I highly recommend The Hands of Orlac. =)
помимо прочих познавательных радостей, которые приносят книги вообще, эта подарила крайне уместный ныне афоризм Готфрида Бенна из "Искусства и власти" (1934): "Новая молодежь принадлежит власти..."
