https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18750.Beauty_s_Punishment
Once again, I'm not rating this read because I don't think it would be fair to "hurt" this book's average rating considering I knew I wasn't going to like it (I'm not a fan of pure erotica and I'm no expert in BDSM).Just to get started, here's the plot summary given at the beginning of the 3rd book, Beauty's Release:Sold on the village auction block at dawn, Tristan soon found himself tethered and harnessed to the carriage of a handsome young Master, Nicolas, the Queen's Chronicler.
High Fantasy, Graphically Sexual, and Exquisitely Detailed… I feel that in this day and age, there are few taboo texts which still exist to embarrass the reader who unapologetically devoured the pages without regard to the outside world… But the Classic Erotic Trilogy of Sleeping Beauty comes as close as possible to that point…Many readers detest these books... I enjoy them! "It was over. The cracks still rang in her ears. She could still feel the paddle as if in a dream. And her sex was like a
High Fantasy, Graphically Sexual, and Exquisitely Detailed… I feel that in this day and age, there are few taboo texts which still exist to embarrass the reader who unapologetically devoured the pages without regard to the outside world… But the Classic Erotic Trilogy of Sleeping Beauty comes as close as possible to that point…Many readers detest these books...
Stockholm syndrome on steroids and BDSM on crack. That sums up this book nicely. It still fascinating to read why the princes/princesses accept and even come to like their daily punishment. I have known BDSM for a few years but there is not one person who can put up with years of degradation and humiliation every second of your daily life. In some ways this is truly a fairy tale - for pervs but still a fairy tale ;pThe plot is better than the first, but if you're looking for a plot rich book than go somewhere else.
I am also slightly amazed at the open sexual gratification of not just one but of many.What a way to end the book by throwing them not only into each others' arms but into the mercy of "pleasure slave" captors of a sultan from across the sea.
All in all, the sexual exploration of this ongoing tale is to be enjoyed with an open mind, if not a hot libido.
I know that even as I quaked with the horror that I am sure both Beauty and Tristan, as well as other princes or princesses in this tale, felt with abject humiliation and raging desire; I can only honestly state that I am inspired to try a little spanking myself...
I don't even know why I proceeded with book 2. I was dumb, okay.
Let's go over what this book has to offer:Prostitution (Offering your slaves bodies for money is, in fact, prostitution, and pimping)A strange form of pseudo-beastiality (They don't have sex with animals, but Anne has them dress up as such, which is just weird.)Sword handlesMore rape.Alright, Anne, now you're really starting to piss me off.
Ladies, please raise your hand if you've had an orgasm by every single person you've had sex with?
There is no way Beauty can possibly have screaming orgasms every time something is in put into this woman's vagina.
DO NOT READ THIS BOOK IF YOU LOVE ANIMALS.
I DON'T CARE HOW HORNY YOU ARE, DO NOT READ THIS BOOK IF YOU LOVE ANIMALS.
This book was freaking weird.
Anne Rice, though I have a sort of love/hate relationship with her, has a sick and twisted mind.
I didn't read this because it was porn.
I read this because I heard about how freakingly strange this was, and this was Anne Rice as well.
And it had weirdness, trust me.
But after a certain scene I couldn't stand anymore sick weirdness.
Yeah, don't read this book if you love animals, especially cats.
Despite plodding through this series, I am intrigued by the story.
I'm actually torn over my rating: I enjoyed reading this book a bit more than I did the first one but the direction of the story in the introductory novel was so much more interesting to me.
I do like how Anne Rice has developed the characters as she moves toward the end of the trilogy, and the psychological implications attached to Beauty and Tristan's differing reactions to existing as naked pleasure slaves make for surprisingly thought-provoking revelations about the nature of sex and arousal (at least, their natures as they pertain to the story).
This is not "your" story, it is the fictitious account of Sleeping Beauty and the Prince who awakened her (at least in the beginning, after which it becomes a story of multiple "slaves" and their many different views on BDSM.)That above point is the key to not only reading the first book to completion, but the whole series, so I'll say it again: SET ASIDE ALL OF YOUR PRECONCEIVED NOTIONS REGARDING SEX."While I enjoyed the first book, things really got interesting once I acclimated to the unique sexuality views prevalent in the series and the plot hooked into me with deeper purchase.
"HE SPANKS ME, HE SPANKS ME NOT" ...... DNF @10%
She decided not to always be obedient, perhaps knowing that by pushing back she would reach a greater level of submission than if she meekly obeyed every order.
Once he found what he sought, he began to find peace and contentment in his position as a slave.Overall this story was more fulfilling, and I found a deeper understanding of the mind and soul of a true submissive.
No less whimsical than the first book, it nevertheless told a more in-depth and revealing story.
Though again, I did not wish to be Beauty, there were moments in which I truly envied her.The ending of this story leads to another adventure for both Beauty & Tristan.
This sequel to "The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty", the first of Anne Rice's elegantly written volumes of erotica, continues her explicit, teasing exploration of the psychology of human desire.
Once again Rice's fabulous tale of pleasure and pain dares to explore the most primal and well-hidden desires of the human heart."Beauty's Punishment" is the continuation of "The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty", Anne Rice's erotic retelling of the popular fairy tale.
In the village Beauty and some others are auctioned to the civilians who transform them into working slaves : they have to work, the boys are turned into horses or poneys, and their masters and mistresses are degrading them and punishing them into a new stage of submission.
She likes some of them a lot & she loves the abasement & the punishment even more.
I found myself highly amused at her antics most of the time & liking her more & more throughout the course of this installment.Tristan becomes attached to his Master (Nicholas) & he's definitely more tender hearted than Beauty.
There's a special place in the village for public punishments with a maypole, a spinning wheel & even public tents & both he & Beauty delight in the tortures that lie there.
Will Beauty find her true Master or be a wanton little heartbreaker?
I think it helps to add more depth and then there is the introduction of a new character and the story being told from their perspective as well as Beauty’s.
I quite like the new perspective and seeing as it is a different slave to what Beauty is (a different type of slave) I think it adds a better dimension compared to the first but only in so far that it helps add more dimension to Beauty’s character.
In saying that I think it’s an abruptness that’s needed to continue the slaves growth, but still I like the brutality, mainly because I’ve found it to be a more colourful novel and even more detailed then the first.
But I admit, I read all three.
It's been a few years since I read this so I was tempted to give it only two stars but after some consideration, decided to bump it to three.
After finding the first book at the tiny public library I secretely hoped this and the third were available as well.
On the very bottom shelf probably more read than anyone would care to admit.
My bet is none of the librarians ever bothered to pick it up...or if they did they liked it too because I imagine it received quite a bit of negative attention for being in such a tiny town's library.
I thought this series was an imaginative take on the sleeping beauty fairy tale. It is so dark. The hard core sex element is not for the faint of heart.
I also find it impressive that she did such an outstanding job on this novel, given that she wrote it for an academic degree, and that the subject matter is by and large misunderstood in mainstream society.With a nod to Rice's abilities, I will now move to my second point: This book depicts a Grimm-infused view of BDSM.
For those who do not participate in the community, or bother to learn the reality of the lifestyle, I would like to point out that few people are able to engage in the kind of "day in and day out" dynamic depicted in the book.
Beauty's Punishment is the second book in Anne Rice's Sleeping Beauty trilogy; I'd be lying if I didn't mention that I'm relieved that I only have one more to go.
I had written in my review of The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty that I was curious to see where Anne Rice takes this, just how far she goes.
However, the second book, although surprisingly darker than the first (surprising because how is that even possible!?) is not as lacking in emotional ties as the first.
I would not, however, recommend any of these books to someone who is offended by off color language and sexuality.
This was a hot fantasy to be honest. Not all of the kink is my kink, but it was strangely arousing to read.This is porn, but decent porn, not pretending to be anything else.
Above all It offers all this things with an aesthetically attractive way, so I think it's an ideal erotic reading.Η έκδοση του βιβλίου που διάβασα - άκουσα για την ακρίβεια - ξεκινάει με μία εισαγωγή που ξεκαθαρίζει τις προθέσεις της συγγραφέως.
Στο πρώτο βιβλίο υπήρχε το στοιχείο της βίαιης ερωτικής φαντασίωσης αλλά σε αρκετά σημεία τα πράγματα ξέφευγαν από τα όρια και στο τέλος αυτό που διάβαζα ήταν περιγραφή κακοποίησης.
Σε αυτό τα πράγματα είναι αρκετά διαφορετικά παρά το γεγονός ότι - όπως φαίνεται από τον τίτλο - η ιστορία περιστρέφεται γύρω από την τιμωρία των ηρώων μας.
Author: Anne RicePublished By: PlumeAge Recommended: AdultReviewed By: Arlena DeanBook Blog For: GMTARating: 4Review:"Beauty's Punishment" by Anne Rice is a sequel from book one: The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty" where we find it is another 'steamy erotica' read of how 'Beauty and Prince Tristan' survive in 'The Village' that is told to you in first and third person.
Now, let me stop here and say if you haven't read the first book and not open to erotica, bdsm, fantasy, fairy tales, sexuality ....STOP!
One has to assume the amount of times Beauty is curious with knowledge of the village in book one, that she would end up here eventually!
Beauty and Tristan are auctioned off in the village and thus the story begins.
While Beauty becomes the Captain's personal servant, Tristan falls in love with his master.
The story focuses mainly on Tristan with Beauty as a side character.
Complete with horsetail phalluses and gang bangs, the book continues to tell the erotic tale of sex slavery and dark human desire.
Be fair warned.I love the ending of this story.
Another aspect of this book I had some trouble with was Tristan's POV.
This is supposed to be Beauty's story and if alternate POVs are needed, they should be in a way that they further the story.
It felt like Tristan's chapters were just another way to dump more BDSM torture on her readers.This is no longer a re-telling of a fairy tale.
I think it's safe to say that from chapter 2 in Book 1, it no longer became a re-telling and was more of a stand-alone trilogy.
I'd most probably read Book 3, but just to see what happens to Beauty in the end.
This was my favorite of the three, I found the finale very unsatisfying.
The first time I read it was was SHOCKED, I tell you, shocked!
But as the years go by it gets less shocking.
I was also shocked when a friend came over one day and saw it on my shelf and she exclaimed, "Oh!
I love those books!" At least it took away some of my youth's embarrassment at her focusing at it on my bookshelf.
Years later, it was hilarious to me when a co-worker at Macy's was reading it in the break room and someone asked her about fairy tales.
This trilogy was my introduction into the BDSM World of reading. I absolutely loved it. Being raised a good catholic girl, I was naive to anything sexual, but this book opened my eyes to many possibilities and to the different aspects of sexuality. I read the entire series in two days.The books can be a bit extreme at times, but whats the purpose of fantasy if you can't push the envelope.
Did I write this is the most erotic novel I have ever read. I meant for this series. And even this is one of the most weird twisted sexy novel I think I will ever read. I am looking forward to read the next novel. So that I can know what happens with Beauty !
However, never one to not read anything bound between two covers if stuck in front of me, I gamely plodded on to Beauty's Punishment, the second in this erotic triad.:: The Plot ::In the first book, the story of Sleeping Beauty is retold by Rice/Roquelaure in a new way; rather than being claimed by the kiss we learned in the familiar fairy tale, Beauty is claimed by the Prince with a "sexual initiation" (really a rape...
And although their masters are still not allowed to do any real harm, there are no other restrictions on the ways in which they may be used.Tristan finds himself put to work as a human pony, complete with tail and harness when he’s not being punished in a public spectacle while Beauty is handed over the handsome Captain of the Guard for his pleasure as well as that of his men.Both slaves at first experience deep fear as well as humiliation but neither can deny the pleasure even these feelings bring them.
After her punishment, Beauty will return to court.This is the second in the A.N. Roquelaure's Sleeping Beauty erotica series.
If you thought that Anne Rice could not possibly think of more twisted, sexual tortures, you would be wrong.
If you thought that the second book would surely bring some sort of redemption in the development of a love story, you would be wrong yet again.
I can't stress the point enough without giving actual details and since I cannot block children from my reviews on Goodreads, I am absolutely not going to do that.There is a little more background in Beauty's Punishment and as mentioned in my review of The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty, there is a story, which is not all that bad.
Anne Rice’s erotic spin to a fairy tale classic starts-off when the charming Prince awakens our heroine by initiating sexual activity.In this erotic and uninhibited second novel from Anne Rice’s Sleeping Beauty Trilogy, we follow Beauty as she is forcefully transferred from her luxurious life in the castle with high authority to being sentenced to slavery in a neighboring village for willfully disobeying the Prince and the Queen herself (despite being their favorite) in an act of S&M and bondage.I’ve made the error of starting here -the middle of the trilogy- which results to some minor confusion.
