https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131787.Marilyn
Well, I am glad I read the book.
There are so many books written about Marilyn, so picking one is quite difficult.
The entire feel of the book is to place before the reader divergent views.
The book does not offer a deep psychological analysis of Marilyn.
On completion of the book I feel I have been given an adequate understanding of the woman and the events of her life.
I am giving the audiobook narration by Jeff Harding three stars too.
I seem to be the only audiobook listener who just wants a narrator to read the lines in a straightforward manner!
Stormin' Norman was on a British radio show called Desert Island Discs once.
That's a show where you choose 8 "gramophone records" (as they quaintly say) to take with you to a notional desert island on which you have been abandoned.
Norman stated up front that he didn't really like music so he just picked 8 tunes which reminded him of his six wives and two significant others.
What a tosser!Anyway, Norman's unabashed drool of a book makes it clear that he would have liked to slot Marilyn in somewhere between Wife No. 4 and Wife No. 5.
Lots of surprising inside info about Marilyn. More substance to her than I thought.
These days I think Mailer is considered unfashionable, a 'great pity' as the great man might say...
I found the book a real page turner, easy to read, and more interesting because of Mailer; he doesn't just regurgitate details from interviews, he tries to get into her possible state of mind in key points of her life.
I recommend it as I was not thinking I would find the book particularly interesting, as I've come across most details about Monroe before.
My first book about Marilyn Monroe. My fascination started with my favorite movie of hers which is Bus Stop. I always felt a bit of envy over her beauty but after learning and reading about her, I know that her private life was tortured and being beautiful was a far cry from being happy. Beauty is skin deep but happiness and who you are as a person hopefully runs deeper and is more important. Marilyn's intense insecurity and need for love struck a cord in me because I have dealt with the same issues, hence the fascination perhaps.
Mailer was obsessed with Marilyn. Unfortunately for him, he was refused a meeting with her on one occasion, and missed his opportunity on the second. This book is like stream of consciousness elevating a woman to a Goddess. He is bitter, he is sweet, he is not quite right in the head.
Hey, I was 21 years old.The book itself is called "A Novel Biography" and that sort of sums it up.
You get fantasy, facts, wishes, and maybes all in one, with the book concluding that Marilyn was assassinated by shadowy government forces.
A type of success that still makes it possible to say Marilyn with no other other name attached and everyone knows who you mean.
She should be remembered and her story is one worth noting, sadly this particular book/novel is a sort of mixed bag.
I'd say read it as fiction or possibly a fictionalized story.
The book was controversial indeed when first published in 1973; charges of plagiarism and an attendant lawsuit from the authors of biographies used in his research put a pall over Mailer's interpretative accomplishment, and feminists and progressives were particularly at arms by the fact that Norman Mailer, of all people, had written anything at length about Monroe.
This book contains Mailer's Private Marylin Monroe, and at the time it was published it was a florid, beautifully written , occasionally interpretation of the dry facts about Monroe's life and career.
De asemenea scoate in evidenta imensa fragilitate de care suferea diva (care a si impins-o sa se sinucida pana la urma)Am inteles ca Marlin era o femeie extrem de inteligenta care stia sa-si foloseasca atuurile in favoarea ei, ca intarzia ingrozitor de mult la filmari si ca filmarile la un film dirau foarte mult nu pentru ca era neglijenta sau dezinteresta ci pentru ca era bolnava iar boala ei avansa extrem de tare si nimeni nu parea sa-si dea seama sau nu vroia sa-si dea seama.
Am mai inteles ca in ciuda mitului nu era o femeie frivola ci dorea doar sa fie iubita iar barbatii nu faceau decat sa-si bata joc de ea.
I have heard of Norman Mailer but have never read anything by him until now. His style of writing (at least for this book) can be described as such: Why say something in a few words, when a few hundred could do? The writing in this book is very flowery, to the point of being down right annoying. He even, on occasion, refers to himself in the third person. All in all, if you (like me) don't know much about Marilyn Monroe, I would suggest starting with a different biography. This one will just frustrate you.
Everest Yayınları'nı bir kez daha bu aciz goodreads köşesinden tebrik etmek isterim.
Devrik cümleleri okumaya başlayınca kötü bir çeviri mi acaba diye düşünmüştüm ama daha sonra Işılar Kür'ün aslında elinden gelenin en iyisini yaptığını anladım.
Norman Mailer'in Amerikan üslubu bu.
Manifesto gibi yazıyor.
Büyük tespitler yaptığını düşünüyor(ki çoğu tespitler harika)Norman Mailer gerçekten bir stalker gibi izlemiş Marilyn'i.
İngiltere'ye yaptığı yolculuğunda kaç bavulun Arthur Miller'a kaç bavulun Marilyn'e ait olduğunu yazıyor.
Yazar, Marilyn'le iletişime geçmek , belki de daha fazlasını yaşamak istemiş ama reddedilmiş aktris tarafından.
Instead it is a collection of titbits about Marilyn's life taken from a range of biographies and what Mailer terms 'factoids' - a bizarre mixture of tabloid fancy and fact.
However, Mailer makes the reader well aware of the smoke and mirrors effects of putting together someone's life, especially someone as complicated as Marilyn Monroe.
Indeed, the book does two things simultaneously; firstly it portrays her complexities, her contradictions, hopes and fears whilst at the same time it keeps you guessing as to what really happened and leaves you to come to your own conclusions.What makes this book a sumptuous experience is the pictures and interestingly, these were to be the main feature of the book (following an exhibition of them 'MARILYN MONROE - The Legend and the Truth;)with a commentary written by Mailer.
This is a biography about the one the only Marilyn Monroe.
I absolutely love this book for many reasons.
This book is the period of June 1st, 1926 to August 5th, 1962.
June 1st, 1926 being the best day in time, the day Marilyn was born.
:( Marilyn Monroe was a actress, singer, and model.
I think this book was made because it was just about her and everything that happened to her.
I have no dislikes to this book only likes, but that's just me.
(Anything to do with Marilyn Monroe I'll like it)
Being an avid MM fan I had to gobble this up but it was a very critical view, an such a sad look at such a sad lady. It is tragic that Marilyn really had no one to protect her, from herself, or from those who would manipulate her in her weakest hours. This was a time when stars were used up like Kleenex and thrown away.
Less concerned with any attempt at journalism or establishing facts/timelines, this is more of a vehicle for the author to wow us with his amazing and flawless intellectual and literary prowess (sarcasm). It's a pseudo-biography pandering to the Cult of Marilyn—of which I'm a proud member, so I guess I can't fault Mailer for writing the thing. The photos are beautiful.
Photographer Larry Schiller curated some of the greatest pictures of MM - by Andre de Dienes, Milton Greene, and others - and, perhaps for the first time, showed what a genius Marilyn was in front of the still camera.But onto the text, which Norman Mailer described as a 'novel biography'.
The book followed Capote's In Cold Blood by a few years, another example of an author approaching a real-life subject with quasi-fictional style.
How could he intrude, seemingly without shame, on the private life of his literary rival, Arthur Miller, Monroe's third husband?) For all its problems, however, Mailer's Marilyn remains one of the most influential texts on a woman who, in death, has become far more mythic than Mailer, or Miller will ever be.
I have to give 5-stars to the glorious photographs, one star to Mailer's writing, for a three star review.Previous Review:When this author writes of DiMaggio and Monroe's attendance at the premiere of "The Seven Year Itch", we learn that by the end of the evening, the couple fought.
"It is like a calculus of partial derivatives." So that's when I closed the book: Mailer is writing only for himself, certainly he isn't writing for any marketing niche of which I'm familiar.
The pictures here are awesome though, definitely worth a view, so just skip Mailer's weird and sometimes nonsensical writing.
I gave this book a three as the photos were incredible (four stars) and the writing was really challenging/difficult to follow (two stars).
Mailer is a high-brow writer that often wrote about statements that were suppositions, and he often trailed off into tangents, so it was a bit of a slug to get through.
That being said, it was fun to compare notes and interesting facts about Marilyn with my book club, as each book contained different "factoids" (as Mailer often referred to them).
I found the last third/quarter of the book he really seemed to speed up with telling her story, whereas the front end felt a bit more meandering.
One of the most boring books I have ever read. And I really like Norman Mailer. This book was more boring than boring.And I slogged thru it just because I knew eventually since it was written by Norman there would be some pearls. I honestly don't remember any, but I think maybe there were one or two? Maybe?was Mailer just plastered all the time when he wrote this and to understand it one has to be drunk too?I don't know
I was in an apartment in New York with nothing to read. I looke for something on the bookshelf and saw this book by Norman Mailer. I had heard of it, but never read it. Figured it might be interesting. Wrong. Mailer wrote a biography so he could describe his sexual fascination with Marilyn Monroe. Obstensibly, it is a biography. But there is nothing but speculation that drifts all over the place, including the Silent Majority of the Nixon years. Huh?Weird.
And so began my love affair with Marilyn Monroe..I even started wearing my training bra to bed.
It is more Norman Mailer’s rumination on Marilyn Monroe’s life and career, but he is up front with this position; he states that he is writing a biography that is also a novel in the introduction.
On a different note, this book was published in 1972, and there a few moments where Mailer connects Marilyn’s celebrity and tendency to stretch of the truth in service to publicity (in what he calls “factoids”) to Richard Nixon’s political career (before the Watergate controversy reaches its pinnacle no less!).
I could not help connecting these comments to the current administration in 2018.
meh - I felt I was reading something written for 1970s Playboy magazine - clearly aimed at 70s man. Norman Mailer aims to get out of jail on this one by calling it a Biographical Novel which gives him flexibility to make up stuff whilst drawing on existing biographical work - so I don't think he is really adding anything of worth to the mix. Also takes a but of an underhand swipe at fellow writer Arthur Miller particularly when Miller was going through a dry phase. There are probably better biographies out there.
Very mushy and poetic. Good ego trip for someone with eyes of a certain hue of blue. It surely did much for her legacy. Mailer obviously had a thing for her. I am going to read more Mailer. This book should not be read by someone who hates Marilyn Monroe completely because it is a fan book. I read this quite a long time ago but the poetry of his prose touched me.
I was eager to re-read this on my 10" Kindle because the photos in the original paper book were spectacular. This is ONLY the text which, though beautifully written, is not what I expected when I purchased. There is nothing like viewing photos on a 10" Kindle Fire. Unfortunately none of those classic pictures are included here. To say I was disappointed is an understatement.
Very strange book. Not what I was expecting. There are vignettes' of Marilyn's life scattered through out the book & the picture it gives is a girl of deep insecurity & promiscuity. She was always 'acting' never real.
No one should have to read this kind of stuff about themselves.This author is obsessed with sex and obsessed with other Marilyn Monroe biographical stories, and has put his two obsessions together, in a very creepy (and sometimes completely crass) way.
I could review this book, but I suggest you find Pauline Kael's long and scathing review of "Marilyn". She said it better than anyone else could.The second star is for the occasional fine bit of writing - Mailer was an excellent prose stylist.
3.5It was overall enjoyable, but there was a lot of unnecessary sexism - but maybe that was the point of it. Maybe it's just a product of its time. I'd treat this more as an exploration of a historical figure and not so much a biography for those considering reading it.
Worst Marilyn bookI have read a ton of books about Marilyn Monroe and this is by far the most boring one I have read. Truly sad. I couldn't wait to be finished.
