https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92780.Cold_Comfort_Farm
Rarely do I see a film much better than a really good book, but this is it.
And if it didn't blight her entire life, she certainly made sure it would blight, or at least add even more blight, to everyone else at Cold Comfort Farm, the family home and ancestral seat of the Starkadders.Essentially this is the American tv series, the Hillbillies rewritten for 1930s Sussex and parodying Hardy, Lawrence, and various other Great British Writers, but is more related to the Hillbillies with incest, hellfire, strange obsessions (cows) and all manner of people who all have mental or emotional problems of the darker, more malign sort.
I haven't seen the film of it, only just learned there was one, which was apparently brilliant and stars top British actors and actresses (as opposed to 'stars' famous more for their beauty than any thespian ability).
I can also imagine her gently cackling to herself in polite and proper manner as she clattered out the lines which would come together to form the world of Cold Comfort Farm; Postes, Starkadders, Beetles, Myburns and all.Flora Poste is bright eyed, knowing, impossibly perky and recently orphaned (if indeed 20-somthing ladies can be orphans).
Apparently penniless with only £100 per year to her name (this was thought to be a paltry sum in Jane Austen's day so clearly young Ms Poste is gently skulling up financial shit-creek), she throws herself upon the mercy of her relatives and with jutting chin and determined step, strikes out boldly for Sussex and Cold Comfort Farm.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Muriel Spark-ish Tartness: "Cold Comfort Farm" by Stella GibbonsThe first two-thirds of it are much funnier than the last third.
That said it's quite witty and clever throughout, and Stella Gibbons' sentence construction is a thing to behold: she kind of combines mid-twentieth century Muriel Spark-ish tartness with the flawless, rolling rhythm of the Victorian sentence (or something like that).
Just to point up the primitiveness of Cold Comfort Farm?
If you're into Mundane Literature of the Victorian kind, read on.
Cold Comfort Farm is a stinging satire and outrageously funny parody of the literature about rural English farm life, especially by Sheila Kaye-Smith, Mary Webb, and to a lesser extent, D.H. Lawrence and Thomas Hardy. I haven't read much by the former mentioned authors to appreciate the full extent of Gibbons jabs, but it doesn't matter because the humor is obvious. Gibbons writing was very clever and her cast of characters would have made Dickens proud. Very funny and very entertaining. 4.5 stars.
The protagonist, Flora Poste, is a bracing antidote for anyone inclined to be a sad sack.
"Nature," she says, "is all very well in her place, but she must not be allowed to make things untidy."This edition of the book has the added pleasure of an appreciation of Stella Gibbons in the form of an introduction by Lynn Truss (in which we are treated to hear what Virgina Woolf--a bit of a sad sack herself--had to say about Gibbons) and irreverant cover illustrations by Roz Chast, (whose style will be instantly recognizable to New Yorker readers.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003. "For, if she lived at Cold Comfort as a guest, it would be unpardonable impertinence were she to interfere with the family's mode of living; but if she were paying her way, she could interfere as much as she pleased." A wonderful novel, possibly the only modern classic I will ever fully enjoy. Not a comedy but a satire, but done with a love for pastoral classical writing that I think the author felt
A wonderful novel, possibly the only modern classic I will ever fully enjoy.
Not a comedy but a satire, but done with a love for pastoral classical writing that I think the author felt slightly embarrassed by.
Think of Austen's Emma and you have the protagonist, Flora.
There are smatterings of Heathcliffe, Bathsheba, and all the other archetypes of Classical Literature.
Great writing, though often too short and blunt (though we can blame my love of lengthy Victorian prose for this).
It is a Modern Classic with no grudges except, perhaps, just a desire to be a little more to the point.
The left point of the triangle abutted on the farthest point of the octangle, which was formed by the cowsheds, which lay parallel with the big barn....Leaving the house by the back door, you came up sharply against a stone wall running right across the yard, and turning abruptly, at right angles, just before it reached the shed where the bull was housed, and running down to the gate leading out into the ragged garden where mallows, dog's-body and wild turnip were running riot.
THIS BOOK RULES!!!!I mean seriously, oh my god!
I want to live inside this book!!!!!Well, just kidding.
All of my trying-to-move-in-and-permanently-inhabit-a-fictional-world energies are currently taken up by the film Mamma Mia!: Here We Go Again (2018).
I am purely certain that I could handle the whole Sam situation much better and end up with him in the end but also still get with Harry and Bill in the interval.SOMEONE TALK ABOUT MAMMA MIA WITH ME I CAN'T BELIEVE HOW MUCH I LOVE IT.But the book!
I love the book, too.Bottom line: Stella Gibbons you are a goddess among men and this book is DOPE AS HELL.
When Flora arrives at the farm, she sets out to make some changes and tidy everything up, even if it means upsetting her strong-willed aunt, Ada Doom.My favorite parts of the book are when Flora decides to give her wispy, poetry-loving cousin Elfine a makeover that improves her love life, and when Flora helps her cousin Seth become a movie star.
Flora even comes up with the perfect way of dealing with her Aunt Ada, thanks to a well-timed Jane Austen quote.This book is so delightful and has become such a favorite that I will never do it justice.
Probably with my hometown, specifically the coconut plantation, as the setting.Cold Comfort Farm tells the story of Flora Poste the most delightful character that I so far encountered in British literature.
She is this London orphan girl (like Jane Eyre and many other orphans in British literature) who has to live with her relatives in the mysterious Cold Comfort Farm.
For example, when Flora is about to leave the train at the beginning of the story, her London relatives are at the platform of the train station.
Best satiric novel ever written, bar none. I loved the movie too.
Virginia Woolf is enraged, she writes to Elizabeth Bowen in 1932, that the esteemed Prix Etranger award has gone to someone named Stella Gibbons.
Leave wood in a woodshed for ten minutes and it's teeming with centipedes.* yes I spent 20 minutes making that video, yes it was an excellent use of my timeThis is a very funny book.
Is funny alone enough to make a book great?
Will anyone ever find Graceless's leg, which fell off and no one even noticed for half a day?To answer Virginia Woolf's question: Stella Gibbons wrote 22 books but we remember only this one, which has survived all this time because everyone just likes it very much.
Stella Gibbons turns her attention instead on having a good time and on romance, penning a rusticated novel of manners in which Flora Poste, a highly educated and sophisticated young lady from the London high society sets out to clear up the muddle of Cold Comfort Farm.
There is no answer to the riddle; only that bodies return exhausted, hour by hour, minute by minute, to the all-forgiving and all-comprehending primaeval slime' Flora Poste, despite her young age, is a lady who knows what she wants from life and how to get it :  Unless everything is tidy and pleasant and comfortable all about one, people cannot even begin to enjoy life.
Review, of sorts, may be found in Message 1.
If, like me, you've seen the 1996 movie adaptation of Cold Comfort Farm, with Kate Beckinsale, Ian McKellan, Joanna Lumley, Stephen Fry and Rufus Sewell (mmmm yum!), you'll know that there have always been Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm and that Aunt Ada Doom saw something "narsty" in the woodshed when she was two.
Like I said, this is one of the most readable classic novels I've ever read, and I can definitely see myself re-reading it many times over the course of my life, and finding more joy in it each time.Flora Poste finds herself an almost penniless orphan at 19, and decides to live off her relatives.
Eh, it just wasn't for me. I really wanted to like this but it just felt too... saccharine. The sweetness of it turned sour in my mind. However, the writing is good and very simplistic, nobody would find any trouble with it. The cast of characters are very memorable and incredibly idiosyncratic. I did enjoy the parody of the novels of Hardy and the Brontës and such but it was very hit and miss for me. Oh well.
She can choose to work or to live with relatives.
She chooses to live with her country relatives, the Starkadders of Cold Comfort Farm.
Think of the rural countryside of Thomas Hardy, the madwoman of Jane Eyre, the matchmaking of Emma and you've got Cold Comfort Farm.One of my favorite lines: Flora says," When I am 53 or so I would like to write a novel as good as "Persuasion", but with a modern setting, of course." This was a fun, light hearted book that I thoroughly enjoyed!
Rural GothicThe humor of this glorious funny book resides mainly in Gibbons' masterly control of prose style; if you have only seen a filmed version, you know less than half of what the author has to offer.
(This will seem less odd if you know English place-names, and throughout the book Gibbons' choice of names is both almost plausible and brilliantly absurd.) The farm is described in the first of the starred passages, beginning thus: 
However, as light and warmth are brought into Cold Comfort Farm, the doom begins to dissipate.
Maybe because in Cold Comfort Farm he played Seth, the sexy one with the smoldering sex-eyes, so appropriate.I digress.So, with my ravenous appetite for Rufus (who, I might add, is the only thing that makes the recent movie Hercules even remotely worth watching), why did I wait so long to read the book?
Strange things happen - like I don't recognize humor very well in print, or it feels so...
I can't say the same will happen for you.Interestingly enough, it's just like Rufus Sewell - well, without the eyes or the cheekbones or...
The characters in this book are so vividly realized, and they are all the more ridiculous for how seriously they take themselves.
The basic story, for anyone who is interested: When she is nineteen years old, Flora Poste's parents die, and as she does not want to earn her living, she decides to find some suitable relatives to live with.
Flora takes it upon herself to "tidy up" Cold Comfort Farm and free its inhabitants--her cousins--from their oppressively depressing lives.This book is such a hoot--I recommend it to just about anyone.
Although I don't think this the comic masterpiece everyone else does, I was very struck by this passage on p93 - written in 1932, and seemingly predicting the 1960s.
In London our heroine goes to a meeting of the Cinema Society :"The audience had run to beards and magenta shirts and original ways of arranging its neckwear...
it had sat through a film of Japanese life called 'Yes' made by a Norwegian film company in 1915 with Japanese actors, which lasted an hour and three-quarters and contained twelve close-ups of waterlilies lying perfectly still on a scummy pond and four suicides, all done extremely slowly."Nice one, Stella.
I began this book thinking: "Wow, very witty, very interesting, very much in the 4 star range..." To: "Umm...less interesting than I thought, but engagingly quirky and the English humor isn't bad...maybe 3 stars" And finally: "O.K. this is just stupid.
The main character reminds me of Mary Poppins meets the setting of "Napoleon Dynamite" where he works on that creepy farm and the weathered farmhand offers him raw egg-juice...this is a slightly funny 2 stars and I hope I can get through the last four pages." Honestly, after reading this book, I can understand why it is considered a classic that isn't a classic.
Well, that's fine, but sometimes that and some witty jargon just isn't enough.
¿La novela cómica más divertida de la literatura inglesa del siglo XX? Para mí va a ser que no. Y eso que le reconozco el mérito de reírse con gracia y a base de bien de Cumbres borrascosas, que personalmente detesto.
You’ll be guided along by Jane Austen, D.H. Laurence, and a book I wish was real called “The Higher Common Sense.” It is a funny story, but it’s so much more.
There’s a thread of haunting tension played up with a very successful point of view switch, allusions to futuristic cultural changes, and a formidable main character that I instantly loved.And best of all, Cold Comfort Farm does what all good humor books should do: it makes you feel better.
You leave it more capable, as if you too had had a visit from Flora, Robert Poste’s child, and she successfully tidied up your life and set you to rights.

va bene che vi si discorre di metodi contraccettivi, che si irridono sottilmente le semplificazioni psicoanalitiche da settimana enigmistica e che, tra un pudding e l'altro, ricorrono considerazioni su capezzoli, nudismo, britannica lascivia in merito ai costumi sessuali e, per dire, boccioli di rododendro dall'aspetto fallico e imperioso.e va bene, benissimo anzi, che le fanciulle e le signore del romanzo smettano il tweed quando arriva la sera: una lettrice di mondo apprezza sempre romanzi in cui qualcuno si cambia d'abito per la cena (per tacer dei leggiadri vestitini da cocktail).
apprenderlo mi muove a stupore, perché la storia non prende, le battute vorrebbero essere brillanti ma quelle che strappano il sorriso sono in diluizione omeopatica, e la noia arriva anche prima del previsto.
più che altro effetto flora batterica, direi.
I didn't get the joke. :/
Meals at the farm were eaten in silence. If anyone spoke at all during the indigestible twenty minutes which served them for dinner or supper, it was to pose some awkward question, which, when answered, led to a blazing row; as, for example : 'Why has not (whichever member of the family was absent from table) -- come in to her food?' or 'Why has not - the barranfield been gone over a second time with the pruning snoot?' On the whole, Flora liked it better when they were silent, though it did ra
Interestingly, those authors took later opportunities to lash back, and little dissing / name-checking interactions took place; in the 3os!)Reading this and knowing the outcome, I realized that this would be the perfect book to find hiding away in a horrid little motor-court motel, perhaps, on an unnecessary and bleak business trip.
For balance, Gibbons manages to work in a few substantial stabs at the adjacent if distant Bloomsburys, the arty-crafty Wm Morris interiors and society posturings that contrast diametrically with the doomed, simple country-mice of Cold Comfort Farm.
I think it’s a lot like Polyanna (I’ve only seen the Hayley Mills movie, but I imagine the book has to be pretty similar), but creepy instead of saccharine.
It’s very off putting, in the same way I imagine management by Flora Poste would be off putting.
I think I remember the story that made me like this, and, trust me, you don’t want to know it.
I also appreciated how (view spoiler)[everyone found their calling or true love (hide spoiler)] because of Ms. Poste’s solicitude.
I picked this up at the beginning of a mini reading slump, and then read almost nothing of it for two weeks until yesterday when I finally settled down and bombed through it in two sittings.
It was exactly the remedy to contemporary fiction fatigue.
The story of breezy, capable Flora and her mission to transform the lives of her desperately dirty and repressed relatives at Cold Comfort Farm is both funny and genuine.
It’s got comedy and heart, and feels like a period piece at the same time as being shockingly modern.
A great spiky comforting remedy for reading fatigue in this time of Prize longlists.
