https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152838.These_Strange_Ashes
She uses creative detail to relay the bizarre happenings to the reader and often tells it from the perspective of the Indians.However, this book is mainly useful for the spiritual lessons that can be learned.
These are lessons that every missionary will learn during their first few years on the field.
Losing an entire year of work is not much fun and may help those dealing with trials to persevere.
Considering the situations the author faced subsequently it is good that she had already worked through her questions about God and His purposes.I recommend this book.
Although Jim Elliot and the other missionaries' story of martyrdom by the Auca Indians for the cause of Christ is both historic and compelling, the thing that hit me hardest about this read was the epilogue.
She pulls out the "What if?" What if none of the natives were ever saved and there were no easy answers for the death of Jim and the other missionaries?
Would God be any less good?
God has brought this message much closer to home since reading this book, but I'm thankful for Elliot's honesty and tranparency in facing tough questions.
Faith, prayer and obedience are our requirements, however, we are not offered in exchange immunity and exemption from the world's woes.
To be a follower of the crucified means, sooner or later a personal ecounter with the cross.
The cross always means loss.
She is honest with the struggle of faith and the hardship of following Christ.
I thought it was interesting how the catholic faith was at odds with her ministry and how they handled it.
This account is really about faith and the simplicity of it.
How we struggle with distraction and bring into focus the cross.
I don't think this is the Elisabeth Elliot book to start with. If you are already familiar with some of her story, you appreciate this much more. This is the account of her days among the Colorado Indians before she married Jim Elliot and before the account in "Through Gates of Splendor."I love how she captures the everyday things in the cultures she lives in. She presents an honest look at life, including some of her frustrations and disappointments. We did this as a family read-aloud and everyone loved it. I recommend it.

This book brings back so much nostalgia for me.
I used to read missionary books all.
time.
when I was 9-10, and it pleasantly surprised me by how similar it was to those books!
I really enjoyed reading about Elisabeth’s experiences with the Ecuadorians.
What a good memoir.
It definitely dragged at times and was a little boring, but I guess that’s what I should’ve expected, with it being a nonfiction memoir.
4 stars.*FTC DISCLOSURE: I received a complimentary copy of this book from Revell in exchange for an honest review.
All thoughts are my own and a positive review was not required.*
"It was my first experience in having to bow down before that which I cannot possibly explain.
Usually we need not bow down.
"Each separate experience of individual stripping, we may learn a fragment of the suffering Christ bore when He took it all...He had bore our griefs and carried our sorrows.This grief, sorrow and total loss that empties my hands and breaks my heart, I may, if I will accept, and by accepting it, I find my hands then have something to offer.And so I give it all to Him, who in this mysterious exchange gives Himself to me." ❣️
I kept a little notebook beside me as I read so I could write down thoughts and quotes.I found it amazing that Elizabeth had problems so similar to myself, even though she was living in such different circumstances.
She writes of how hard it is to know how to spend an individual hour, when there are so many things you could do but none that have to be done.
Also if you do read this book you may want to know that a 'plantain' is a banana shaped fruit/vegetable/herb that is used like a potato, and not a weed that is generally not eaten....
A short quick read written in Elisabeth Elliot's typical blunt style, yet packed with so much insight and wisdom.
Also, more so than the other Elisabeth Elliot books I have read, this one gave a fuller picture of her missionary adventures: riding horses down ravines, sleeping outside, chasing horses, scabies, cooking failures, and snake sightings.
It was an adventure and held the thrill of adventure..." But the wonderful thing about this book is that Elliot's life reflects adventure for a purpose-even if parts of that purpose remain invisible.
Elisabeth Elliot is one of my very favorite authors and I really loved reading this book where she shares openly of her first year as a missionary ministering to the Colorado Indians in Ecuador, before she was married.I really loved this book.
As Mrs. Elliot shares of her experiences of her first year as a missionary, she shares her struggles and triumphs, mistakes and failures and this book was very encouraging and eye-opening.
This is definitely one of my favorite books.
It's very amazing, awesome, and encouraging to read of God's mighty hand in the lives of the heroes and heroines of the faith!
I think this will become a book I will continue to find myself remembering and considering a long time from now. This tiny book contained much concerning counting the cost of being a disciple of Jesus and what it means to have faith in spite of the circumstances. Without trying to, I found myself more thankful for the simple modern conveniences I usually take for granted such as electricity, running water, and reliable stoves. I pray I am able to withstand my own trials with faith in God's sovereignty and love for me and those around me.
A difficult book to read, not because of style or vocabulary, but because of the honesty of the struggles she explores. How does a Christian with a passion for faithful service to God navigate the times of violence, loss, and sense of abandonment that haunt our lives? Her conclusion is an encouragement, though; the faithful witness of Elisabeth Elliot's life only serves to confirm the conclusions she came to as a young woman eager to serve God.
A wonderfully written book in which Elisabeth Elliot tells the story of her first year of missionary service and the lessons she learned regarding the sovereignty of God. I've had this book for years, and it's been a long time since I read it. I'm glad I read it again.
This was a quick read about the 1st year of Elizabeth Elliott's calling as a missionary. It wasn't overly spiritual/dense but still thought-provoking. Opened my eyes to the lives of an unreached people group and the challenges faced by missionaries in that kind of setting.
If you're struggling to understand why you've lost somthing that seems good, read this book. Disappointment and trial were part of Elisabeth Elliot's life. She learned to look to God, not merely block out the pain, and discovered that He truly does give beauty for ashes.
Made for the Journey: One Missionary's First Year in the Jungles of Ecuador (previously published as These Strange Ashes, 1998) is a brief memoir by Elisabeth Elliot describing her first months on the mission field in San Miguel, before marrying her husband Jim. She worked with three other single Protestant missionary women among the Colorado Indians, specifically responsible for beginning to develop a written alphabet of their language, Tsahfihki.Made for the Journey is a straightforward and succinct book.
What we are offered has to do with another world altogether." Despite her questions, Elliot perseveres in the Christian life and work she is called to, and confidently confesses the sovereignty and goodness of the God she serves.
Disclaimer: This book was received for free from Revell, a division of Baker Publishing Group, in exchange for my honest review.
These Strange Ashes by Elisabeth Elliot is a gentle but honest reflection on missionary life in Ecuador in the 1950s.
Although these reflections are set before the death of her (then future) husband Jim Eliott, it's his death more than anything that provided the platform for Elisabeth Eliott's books and influence.These Strange Ashes is set in 1952-53 on her first ventures into Ecuador and attempts to reach the Colorado Indians and learn and translate their language.
For me it is the comments of the older Elisabeth that proved to be of greater value, we should learn wisdom from those who have gone before us, suffered much and loved our Lord greatly enough to serve Him wherever that might take them.
This is the personal story of Elisabeth Elliot's first year as a young missionary in the jungles of Ecuador.
It is also the story of three other young women missionaries far from home, their relationships among themselves and with the strange Colorado Indians who lived scattered throughout the dark forests.
In this memoir, Elisabeth Elliot shares her times of joy and her dark nights of loneliness.
She writes of the bitter disappointment she experiences at the death of the one Ecuadorian Christian who knew the spoken language of the Colorado Indians and who helped her immeasureably.
This was a primitive tribe whose language was spoken but had no written form.
Elliot attempted to create a vocabulary so the Bible could be translated in the heart language of these people.
To survive for a year in such primitive conditions was amazing but to see a whole years work in linguistic lost when someone stole the suitcase containing the work was heartbreaking.
I think that the study of linguistics was perhaps the most difficult course I studied in college so I could feel Elliot's agony over the loss.
Elliot says that the lesson here is " Christ is sufficient.
Read this after watching "End of the Spear" again as well as listening to an old audio of "Jungle Pilot" read by Nate Saint's widow.
Because I have a faint memory of the shock of the martyrdom of the 5 missionaries in Ecuador back in 1956, this genre always takes me back to that world.
"These strange ashes" tells of Elisabeth Elliot's first year as a single missionary working with 3 other missionary women among the Colorado Indians of interior Ecuador.
The ministry seemed to be a total failure, as after she left for the next assignment, all the language work she had compiled was lost on the trip to civilization.
I have some mixed emotions about this book.
It's short, and really just a synopsis of Ms. Elliot's first year as a missionary.
It tells about her disappointments and not knowing what God's plan is...for she and her soon-to-be husband as missionaries, but also for the people she is trying to help.
I didn't get a good sense of uplifting positivity.
One good thing was her mention that as young Christians we tend to be impatient for God to work, and often it takes years and years.
That is a lesson so many people are slow to learn.
I don't know if it's because I'm a single female missionary that I enjoyed this book so much - but my goodness did I love this book!
It's not super long (I read it in a sitting) but it felt like I was having coffee with an old friend as she told me her story.
I had a smile on my face most of the time while I was reading it because I could relate so much and her storytelling abilities.
I could "see" so much of what she was describing-from carrying water, markets, missing mail and things taking longer, to the emotions of feeling what missionary life should look vs.
I got so much more out of this book than when I read it years ago as a teenager. Probably because I could identify with the themes of this memoir of Elliot's first year as a missionary better than I could back then. Eliot spends her first year in missions work with three other women with the Colorado Indians, seeking to try to put their language on paper. She is faced with her own "crisis of faith" as she seeks to understand why it seemed God led her to "do His will" there yet everything goes absolutely wrong.
Simple and compelling, These Strange Ashes tells the story of Elisabeth Elliot's first year as a missionary. For many the life of a missionary is something mysterious, but as this book shows it is a life that is abnormal in some ways and yet surprisingly normal in others. Yet just like the normal Christian life it is filled with pain, loss, and unanswered questions that try one's faith. At least that's the way it was for Elisabeth Elliot. And once you let her begin to tell her tale, you won't want to put it down.
This account of a young woman's missionary journey reminds us that seeking to help others is never about us; it's about those we're there to help. Elliot forces herself (and us) to examine her (our) motives, to come to terms with the culture of another people, to realize that the mission is not as simple as we might think. Most of all, it forces us to examine the concept of failure and how what we think may be worthless can be used for extraordinary purposes, those beyond which we can't even begin to imagine.
If you think you're having a bad day (or life), read this. The difficulties of our lives have meaning.From the back cover:"In this deeply personal account of her first year as a missionary, Elisabeth Elliot shares what it was like to work in the jungles of Ecuador with a small group of women, bringing the Word of God to the Colorado Indians. With fascinating detail, she captures the stark realities of life among this primitive people and reflects upon the "strange ashes" that can result when an act of obedience is passed through the fires of God's perfect--yet mysterious--will."
This is a beautiful story of faith and selflessness in following God. Elisabeth Elliot recounts the story of her missionary work as a single young woman among the Colorado Indians of Ecuador. Her experiences, acceptance of hardship, and simple trust in Christ are a breath of fresh air and an inspiration. They stand as a light in the self-centered darkness of what often passes for Christianity today. I highly recommend this book for anyone - and then pass it on to a teenager.
This was a very interesting book about a missionary in Ecuador. The author was very honest about the challenges and struggles she faced. I learned a lot about what it was like to live in the jungle in that time-period. It would have been very difficult, and the author did not sugar-coat any of it. The style of writing was ok, but I think the book could have been edited a little better. It was a good story, though.
I found the narrative flat and uninspiring. Elliot mentions many times about being a missionary, yet I just never got the sense that she "witnessed" or made converts. I sympathized with her when her year-long translations were stolen and I read in horror as she mentioned the many insects she had to deal with. Other than each two things, I just found myself getting through the book.
This is the first year of a jungle missionary for Elisabeth Elliott. She tells how God used the losses of that year to remind her that He is requires trust and obedience and He will take care of all the rest. It was a good, easy read but full of lots of deep truths that need to be remembered by all of us.
