https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131179.The_Bird_s_Nest
The more I read by Shirley Jackson, the more of a fan I become.
Shirley Jackson once again proves herself to be the queen of creepy, the dame of disquiet.
I feel as if in Jackson's later work, she learned to do more with less--to write her characters without having to explain so much, which only heightened their weirdness and also, in a way, the black humor, which is largely missing in The Bird's Nest.
Her writing is also tighter on the sentence level in her later work.
Shirley Jackson is a national treasure.
The quiet and mousy Elizabeth, the extremely sensitive Beth, the wickedly naughty Betsy, and the juvenile and anti-social Bess whose growth has been stunted.Life proceeds at a sedate pace for Elizabeth and her maiden aunt Morgen (with whom she stays), except for the excruciating headaches and backaches experienced by the girl - and the mysterious threatening letters she keeps on discovering on her table at her office.
Even though Jackson's narrative power and metaphoric strength (the hole in the museum wall near Elizabeth's table reaching up to its foundations is an extremely powerful one) are on display, the story ultimately did not satisfy.
Foreword, by Kevin Wilson--The Bird's Nest
Strange and wonderful, Shirley Jackson does the odd and peculiar so well, like you are in a world completely alien to all others and where things that would be strange to you or I are normal to these characters.
Although I found it a bit tough during the middle, the beginning and end gripped me and I was fascinated to see how Jackson writes about 4 separate characters in one body (a bit like 'The Three Faces of Eve).
This must surely be one of her cleverest books ever, I was amazed she could continue the sharpness of her writing right until the end.
Primo libro letto di questa autrice. Devo dire che l’idea di scrivere di un personaggio come Elizabeth affetta dal distrutto di personalità multiple è un’idea eccellente. Mi sono appassionata alla descrizione di ogni personalità come se fosse realmente un’altra persona ,con ognuna i suoi pregi e difetti . .. peccato che verso la fine abbia preso piede una confusione in cui mi sono totalmente persa . Voglio credere che la Jackson l’abbia studiata a tavolino questa confusione finale , così da lasciare il lettore un po’ interdetto e stupito !
4.5/5.
Dunque, c'è una ragazza che si rivolge a un medico perché ha sempre mal di testa, dorme male, è rigida come un baccalà.
Una creazione della testa matta di Betsy?Da qui in poi il libro diventa un pollaio con troppi galli, o un cortile con 4 bisbetiche irascibili che litigano fra loro e starnazzano e se la prendono con la zia, con il medico, cercano di uccidersi a vicenda, frignano, lagnano e io non vedo l'ora di uscirne viva.
Oppure non ho capito un tubo ma pazienza, me ne sono fatta una ragione.
Having loved, “The Haunting of Hill House,” and “We Have Always Lived in the Castle,” I was looking forward to reading more by Shirley Jackson.
When we meet her, she lives with her Aunt Morgen and working in the clerical department of a museum.
The book was not quite as compelling as Hill House or Castle, but that would be unlikely, as both are classics of their genre.
As an example of Jackson’s early work it is of great interest and you can see her gradually honing her writing style and characters.
For what they had for information and treatment at the time this novel was written I'm beyond impressed. Several things in this felt like things only a person with DID would know. I'd love to know Shirley Jacksons sources on this story. Review to come
The novel describes Elizabeth/Beth/Betsy/Bess’s initial unraveling, eventual diagnosis, and the efforts of a Dr. Wright (with the help of Miss R's Aunt Morgan) to effect a cure, to integrate these splintered selves into a complete whole.
Though I overall like the book, it has always been pretty much my least favorite of Shirley Jackson’s six novels.
Jackson was a master at humorously limning pompous windbags such as he (Betsy calls him “Dr. Wrong”), but he unfortunately sucks up two largish chunks of the book, which is one too many.
Initially entertaining, he eventually becomes rather tiresome company (most of the pompous windbags in Jackson’s other books have the decency to remain in supporting parts).
4.5 stars I think that this was one of Jackson's most commercially successful novels, and while in many ways it reads like vintage Jackson, it has a slightly different feel than We Have Always Lived in the Castle and The Haunting of Hill House, two of my favorites.In The Bird's Nest, Shirley Jackson once again taps into the complicated psyche of her characters and ultimately her readers with the story of Elizabeth Richmond, a young women suffering from multiple personalities. This once popular
I think that this was one of Jackson's most commercially successful novels, and while in many ways it reads like vintage Jackson, it has a slightly different feel than We Have Always Lived in the Castle and The Haunting of Hill House, two of my favorites.In The Bird's Nest, Shirley Jackson once again taps into the complicated psyche of her characters and ultimately her readers with the story of Elizabeth Richmond, a young women suffering from multiple personalities.
I was amazed at what Jackson got right about DID. The first and third parts of the story were my favorites. I didn't enjoy the perspective of Doctor Wright very much. His methods and sense of ownership over Elizabeth's personality were unethical and frustrating to read. I also found the plot not very climactic. Overall, though, I enjoyed this and definitely want to read more Jackson. I'm enchanted by her succinct and haunting writing style.
I think the correct term nowadays is Dissociative Identity Disorder, but this book is from the '50s (I think) so Elizabeth's condition is called something else. I can't vouch for how accurate a portrayal it is. It kept me turning the pages, and I was expecting Morgen...I don't know if she was a jealous sister, a fed-up guardian, or something else entirely, but she got rather verbose with long rants in the latter half of the book.
Che non hanno niente di speciale, che sono le stesse vecchie cose che hai visto tutti i giorni, solo perché non sei più costretto a rinunciarvi?»Nonostante un inizio titubante e incerto Lizzie è stata una lettura piacevole (per quanto possa essere piacevole leggere di una tematica di questo tipo), ma se non avete mai letto nulla di Shirley Jackson vi sconsiglio di partire da questo libro.
I fell in love with Shirley Jackson when I read We've Always Lived in the Castle.This is an earlier work, and while it isn't as successful, it's still a compelling, dark and disturbing read.Its subject is Elizabeth - a woman with a multiple personality disorder.Elizabeth is a quiet, apparently unremarkable woman working in a museum and living with her aunt.
We hear from Elizabeth's doctor and her aunt, but we also hear from different versions of Elizabeth as her various personalities fight for control.There is the apparently charming and happy Beth, but also the more malevolent and assertive Betsy and Bess.
.Lizzie è stato il primo grande romanzo sulle personalità multiple, io ho deciso di leggerlo perché questo argomento mi interessava molto ed effettivamente non ne sono rimasta delusa anzi, durante la lettura ho provato un giusto mix tra fascinazione ed inquietudine.Il tema viene trattato su più livelli:Innanzitutto dal punto di vista clinico e quindi come malattia vera e propria, con i suoi sintomi e una terapia da seguire.
I must say, after reading it, my brain is exhausted.
However, the exhaustion is not to be confused with dislike for The Bird's Nest.
The book follows the deterioration of her mind and the journey she, her aunt, and her doctor take as a result--the problems caused and the help applied.The story has surprises and well-developed characters, although at times it can be very wordy.
The whole time I read, I was trying to guess how the rest of the book could play out (perhaps contributing to the exhaustion of my mind).A good read, though.
We can collectively refer to this person by her "pre-fracture" name, Elizabeth.
At some point in her past, she suffered a terrible trauma and, employing a very unhealthy coping mechanism, fractured her own personality into four distinct ones: hence, Elizabeth, Beth, Betsy, Bess.Sometimes I forget how much I love Shirley Jackson, but then I read a page of words arranged by Shirley Jackson and my love flows once again.
She presents Elizabeth with dignity and passion and dissects her psyche like Russian nesting dolls or layers of onion or some other such stratigraphically compelling substance.Okay, gotta go read every single thing Shirley's written now.
i was kind of worried after i read hangsaman that there was a reason early shirley jackson novels were out of print but no, this is great. i love the way shirley jackson writes mentally ill women, although i was a bit worried this one would be problematic considering the disagreements over MPD/DID. idk, i guess it's a bit dated but i liked it a lot and now more than ever i am excited to read judy oppenheimer's bio of ms jackson. also, i scored this for $2.75 from better world books' last sale. u jelly?
3.5 Stars. Deliciously strange. Who wrote stuff like this in 1954? Shirley Freaking Jackson, that’s who. In my quest to read everything she wrote, it wasn’t my favorite, but I’m glad I read it. It felt overly long in the middle, but the story of a young woman with multiple personalities and the doctor and aunt who want to “save” her captivated me all the same. (The scene where Aunt Morgen witnesses all the personalities taking a bath one after the other, unaware of all the time they’d spent in the tub, was comic gold.)
Though I don’t think The Bird’s Nest can be considered a Gothic novel (like her last two and more well-known books), it shows clear ruminations on interiority and deeply emotional characters and the creation of a dark, tense atmosphere through the writing—hallmarks of Gothic writing.
From the outside, everything seems to be just fine, but come inside and maybe you’ll sense that the floor is slightly uneven, a marble rolling cleanly across it, a slight feeling vertigo when you come around the corner.This off-kilter building creates the tingle of foreshadowing, the ominous buildup for what is to come when Elizabeth begins losing time, splintering, showing off the other sides of herself that have been hidden inside.

4.5 stas
Very intriguing novel!
I imagined her full-length novel would be similar, a grabby read with a disturbing surprise ending, and I was right.Okay, I'll qualify that.
This description turned out to be symbolic of the protag's character, but to me it read like an author in love with her own voice.
But then, when the aunt resolves to take the girl (she's 23 years old, but is treated as much younger) to a doctor who in turn recommends a psychiatrist, you begin to suspect that there's a lot more subtext here than meets the eye.In the second chapter, told from the POV of the psychiatrist, you begin to get the picture.
I highly recommend it, but I warn you, like "The Lottery," some parts of it are downright disturbing.

E' davvero un peccato. Per la prima metà è appassionante. Leggi una pagina dietro l'altra nell'ansia di scoprire che succederà. Poi tutto si ferma, si annacqua e si perde. Le personalità alla fine non le distingui più, i personaggi che dovrebbero stare bene, fanno cose inspiegabili e il tutto finisce in una bolla di sapone. Messo così è una buona base per un film, ma con un buon sceneggiatore che tiri fuori le situazioni che la Jackson nn pare essere riuscita a descrivere.
Gave up on this after 60 pages, just not my thing at all.
I don’t believe in astrology and the likes, but being a Gemini, I do hold a fascination for the concept of doubleness and having more personalities at the same time.
After Elizabeth starts suffering from ever stronger headaches and pain in her back, she is sent to a psychiatrist for further examination.
Her 3 other personalities of different ages start surfacing, pushing the real Elizabeth deep down under and burying her in their bickering.
There was a contradictory search for and at the same time running away from a person named Robin, which made me weary.
La strana storia di una ragazza che soffre di personalità multiple.Questo romanzo conferma l'impressione avuta con la lettura de La lotteria: Shirley Jackson è maledettamente brava a raccontare.Per tutta la lettura mi sono sentito coinvolto, nonostante una trama esile.
E' appassionante, i conflitti tra le varie personalità della protagonista, le sue disavventure ed il tentativo da parte del dottore Wright di "guarirla", sono narrati splendidamente.
Il punto di vista dei vari personaggi è gestito brillantemente, e umorismo, suspence e malinconia sono intrecciati con arguzia.E' un romanzo divertente, manca però quel "qualcosa" che lo elevi al di sopra del semplice intrattenimento.
