https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/730959.Barren_Ground
A novel about a woman in turn-of-the-century Virginia who, after being jilted by her neighbor, must discover another means of making her life a success.
Beautiful writing to complement the kind of story you continue munching on long after you've closed the book.
If you enjoy reading rural stories of yesteryear featuring female protagonists (think Hardy, but American), or if you're interested in Virginian history, or just life in a small farming community around the turn of the 20th century, I think you'll eat this book up as wholeheartedly as I did.
If not for a quirk of local politics, it is unlikely that we fifteen-year-olds in Mrs. Riddle's high-school lit class would have been exposed to Ellen Glasgow's novel BARREN GROUND.
Published in 1925 but set a few years earlier, the novel relates the life of Dorinda Oakley, a poorish young woman from a traditionally poor region of Virginia, the Southside.
Suffice it to say that it was something even today's fifteen-year-olds might want to be kept from, but Ellen Glasgow was a Virginian, as were we, so politics trumped "good taste" and in this case, I was pleased.
In my opinion BARREN GROUND is under-read, and under-appreciated.
I have changed my mind on this novel.
At first, I thought it was a little too deterministic and overwrought...then I realized it's brilliant how Glasgow critiques a chauvinistic economic system.
The common arguments about the problematic loss or sacrifice of Dorinda's sexuality (or sexual desire) seem to miss the mark and Glasgow's ironic intent.
Also, while some argue that "Barren Ground" is on board with Allen Tate and the Agrarians, I'm not sure I see the relationship existing so smoothly: Glasgow seems to critique and thus complicate both sides of the Agrarian v.
Industry debate."Barren Ground" should be on more college syllabi.

A girl in an orange-coloured shawl stood at the window of Pedlar's store and looked, through the falling snow, at the deserted road.Hard-hearted Hannah really does knock the frills off Scarlett O'Hara. brilliant.NB - There is a small amount of mild racism in this story that one could feel uncomfortable with but please bear in mind the vicinity and the times.
Read this for a southern lit course in grad school. Uninspiring & tedious, with the discouraging theme of "life can be a drag--man up and tough it out." Feh.
If you are looking for a Thomas Hardy-like read head straight to Ellen Glasgow..the detail, the characters, the story (ironic and sad like Hardy), it's all there and set in Virginia USA. I decided to read this book as the author was named a top favorite by Jonathan Yardley as he left the Washington Post after writing 3000 book reviews over 30 years. I didn't always agree with his reviews but this reccomendation was no disappointment.Here's his final column if you want to know more:http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinion...


A hard, bleak read but very memorable. As an Alabamian and oft-times Virginian, I love all of Glasgow's books that I've read. I thought I had read them all but have come to realize that I haven't even read half of them. Glasgow is taught, I am told, in Womens Studies classes which is a real way to kill an author but hasn't done that to Flannery O'Connor or Eudora Welty. Maybe we'll have a "groundswell" for Glasgow from the literary cultures; I support that.
Written in 1925, reading it because I have to read popular American books from the twenties. The prose is purplish but the plot is unsentimental: a better, more brutal Gone With the Wind.
One of my favourite books ever.

I am pleasantly surprised. The novel started out rather slow and uneventful, but by Part Two I was engrossed. Dorinda was a fascinating character and (although I usually do not enjoy books that takes place over several decades) it was a pleasure to follow her throughout her life. The three complaints I have: 1) Before major plot events there was often some sort of line, like "later on she would regret it," which completely destroyed suspense, 2) Too many colours, 3) It was occasionally depressing (I tend to avoid depressing novels).
Too much about the vegetation. I get it. It's ugly.
Good, sad
For example, check out these themes: the pathos of life is worse than the tragedy; time avenges all; hard work is the comfort of the lonely; fate is cruel; weakness is a vice; character is destiny; etc.
Also, some of the inner monologue is tedious at times and the secondary characters range from archetypal (her mother and younger brother are pretty interesting), to animistic (Dorinda's view of men is that they are a mystery she can never understand), to thinly drawn (persons of color).
If you have an interest in that particular theme, add a star to this review, because Barren Ground was very good in evoking an isolated place and time.
While Dorinda Oakley is certainly a complex, extremely human and even triumphant version of the early 20th century female public self, her private self is undernourished, mangled and stagnant.
She is the barren ground.Ellen Glasgow's novel may still exist as a feminist text for some readers, but ultimately it is not the brand of feminism I champion.
Feminism is just as much about the health and wholeness of the private self as it is about the public self, and Dorinda doesn't satisfy the hungering of the 21st century feminist.The Dorinda of Barren Ground is "grounded" solidly in her time.
We watch Dorinda Oakley embrace love and hope, then fall into existential despair, and then embrace a stoic and unforgiving life of hardship, only to have a big realization in the final three pages.I imagine a lot of people would find this book intolerable: the constant philosophizing, the melodramatic voice, the repetition of themes, the heavy use of metaphor!
I think the latter.Early in the book, when Dorinda falls in love with love, she has this realization: "All around her people were pretending that insignificant things were the only important things.
Ugh. After 80 pages of character descriptions I don't feel like going forward.
Ironically, despite these plentiful descriptions of crisp winds and hair blowing and character-defining features (like a sad mouth and limp hair), Glasgow has yet to establish any true character; I know Dorinda has black hair and has the hots for the local boy, but I know nothing about who she is.
To me, this illustrates (in comparison) how brilliant an author like Edith Wharton was, who could tell us more about a character with a single word or action (and often inaction) than this novel attempts to do with plentiful character descriptions.
Dorinda Oakley loves Jason Greylock, a young doctor returned to the Virginia countryside to care for his alcoholic father.
After she discovers that Jason has married another, Dorinda's self-determination grows.
After a difficult period in New York City, Dorinda achieves a crucial green-world vision at a concert.
Dorinda returns to her land, applies new methods of farming to the broomsedge, becomes economically independent, and buys all of Jason's property.
At the denouement her relationship to nature prevails as the ultimate reality in her life." Annis Pratt w/some of my notes
"The transparent flakes...diffused in their steady flight an impresion of evanescence (vanquish like vapor) and unreality" (10)."...insubstantial as a pattern of frost on the grass" (10)."It was as if the secret spirit of the land had traced an image of the flat surface, glimmering, remote, unapproachable (10-11)."I wonder if everything has a soul?" (11)."The passing trains had been part of that unexpected miracle, the something different in the future, to which she looked ahead over the tedious stretch of the present...
19"Her mind...miles away in an enclosed garden of wonder and delight...but some casual part of her was still occupying her familiar place and living her old meaningless life" (22).were the trivial things, after all, the important ones?
One of Glagow's greatest novels, the story of Dorinda Oakley, impoverished farm girl who is "ruined" by an unplanned pregnancy to her betrothed who ends up leaving her for another woman days before the wedding.
Glasgow turns the story upside down by having Dorinda travel to New York where she reaches rock bottom and loses her pregnancy when hit by a carriage only to have it turned around when the doctor who helps care for her gives her work as a nanny and helps her to become educated in dairy farming at the local university.
"You know, I can appreciate that a strong female protagonist may have been a rarity when she published this book.
I understand how this could be important in that regard.
But it's so damn dull.
I mean, is this really the standard we want for "great literature" from the 20s?
How is it that this book is on multiple best of lists?
It's inconceivable.
She gets hurt, so she becomes successful.
Wow. Amazing.
I mean, at the beginning, it's like it's a hourly account of her life.
I don't really see myself picking up another Glasgow book after this one."
I really enjoyed this book, though it was a bit long with themes correspondingly becoming sometimes repetitive.
I am puzzled as to what the book says about Glasgow's views of women.
The protagonist, Dorinda Oakley has one failed love affair and then decides never to allow herself to love a man again and I wonder if Glasgow is saying that success and independence demands for a woman the choice between being loved by a man and maintaining one's own autonomy.
I know that Glasgow never married so wonder if she is justifying her own choice or whether it was a choice at all.
Set in rural Virginia in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, this novel tells the story of Dorinda Oakley, a young woman from one of the villages.
She is jilted by her fiancé, moves north to New York City, and eventually returns home to buy a second farm and live out the rest of her life.
The book provides something of a window into the rural American South after the Civil War, and strong characters, especially the main character.
I thought in some cases, the author provided too much description, which made the book drag in some places, but overall, an excellent novel.
Four because it was so descriptive and so LITERARY but only a four because at time it was dry and even though I understand the appeal of knowing the main character so deeply, I got tired of her emptiness and the pages-long descriptions of her emotional emptiness. NOT A HAPPY BOOK.
A little too long and repetitive, but enjoyed it on the whole.
tread-read, but for last chapter. not 1k predemise. but 2nd pres related
I never truly finished this book. I just didn't like to writing style. It was a bit slow and had too much detail about the land and being pulled back to it.
