https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198784.Mr_Revere_and_I
Breast is mentioned - non sexual.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
I have hundreds of other detailed reports too, and I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This is the story of the American Revolution, told from the perspective of a British horse who ends up carrying Paul Revere on a number of significant rides. It's hilariously, stiltedly formal - the voice is wonderfully done - and in a way it mirrors the journey a lot of people with instinctive loyalty to England must have underwent, too: going from determinedly loyal to infuriated by the very details they once admired so much.
Fun, often humorous, and delightfully written book about Paul Revere's ride, illustrated with beautiful drawings! I don't know how much is fact and how much fiction, but it got me interested enough to try and find out.
It's taken from the point of view of a horse that was formerly a member of the British Cavalry.
Best of all, the facts of the midnight ride were kept pretty straight, leaving everyone exactly where they were in the chain of events, Paul Revere having not made it on to Concord.While the beginning of the story was pretty dry and kind of hard to get into, I think it really lent itself well to the transformation between stuffy, British officer's horse believing she was pampered to an abused workhorse to a truly pampered messenger's horse with a true family.
AMERICAN HISTORY--STRAIGHT FROM THE HORSE'S MOUTH!I was surprised that this book read so quickly; it's the story of the horse that Paul Revere rode as the American Revolution was gathering momentum--culminating his famous Midnight Ride.
Narrated in the first person by a purebred English horse named Scheherazade, this book recounts her philosophical coming-of-age; she gradually changes from a conceited military parade horse from the Mother Country, into a fast-thinking patriotic mare of the Colonies.
We learn much about the personal life and skills of Paul Revere--not noted for his horsemanship, but rather for his work as a silversmith and for being a good family man.
So what we have here is historical fiction in which the broad historical details are reasonably correct, including the characters of the leading figures of the Sons of Liberty, but most of the Loyalists are caricatures - the most notable exception being the storyteller, commonly known as "Sherry".Sherry tells the story as a retrospective in her near-retirement years after her involvement in Revere's pre-War courier work have ended, starting with her early career as the personal mount of an officer in His Majesty's 14th Regiment of Foot.
When I was a kid I loved the Disney short "Ben and Me," which was based on a similar story by Lawson, so this was kind of a letdown.
Lawson also indulges in every American Revolution stereotype in the book--the British are all stuffy aristocrats with bad teeth who have been inbred to the point of idiocy, and the Americans are all strapping, freedom-loving Lockeans who have discovered the ancient secret of how to aim a musket, which enables them to mow down the mindless lobsterbacks willy-nilly.
In short: beautifully illustrated and amusing Revolution-flavored nonsense.
After reading the full book, I think that I definitely need to order multiple copies for read-aloud next year.
5/11/13 ** I recently read King George: What Was His Problem?
by Steve Sheinkin recently and this whet my interest in the Revolutionary War. I remember reading this book when I was in elementary school - several times, and decided to re-read.
Interestingly, I know that I have owned a copy as an adult, but can't find it anywhere.
So, I'm reading a library copy.This would be an excellent book to use when teaching perspective or point of view.
This is not nearly as charming as Lawson's other book "Ben and Me." I think the difference is that in "Ben and Me," Benjamin Franklin and the mouse were buddies who talked to each other, whereas in this book the horse never actually talks to Paul Revere.
(For example, "farrier") My son did not love this book, and I am pretty sure that I would not particularly have loved it, either, when I was a kid.It's a good book if you are interested in the subject matter, but if you (like me) think it is going to be similar to "Ben and Me", then skip it.
(There's nothing wrong with old fashioned language, but I think in this case it may be a deterrent to some readers.) Ultimately, I came to really like Sheherazade (Revere's horse) and it was an interesting perspective on the events leading up to the Revolutionary War. I listened to this on CD, and perhaps that contributed to my feeling that children may not like it.
I started off listening to it with my children and they quickly became bored.
But I used to teach 5th grade, and I think that few children would pick this up on their own for pleasure reading.
My summer reading adventures took place at the Raytown branch of the Mid-Continent Library serving the suburban KC metro area.
There were no prizes, programs or smiling librarians.
It was simple.
Read 60 books and you get a free book.
After I blasted through a lot of picture books and my annual read of The Diary of Trilby Frost I got to sixty and was dismayed when there were only two books left.
Both looked super gross.
I took Mr. Revere and I because at least there was a horse on the cover.
Mr. Revere and I A Junior bookVery interesting and fun book about the American Revolution. This story is narrated by Paul Revere's horse Sherry. Sherry starts out as a very dedicated British cavalry horse and gradually changed into a fierce patriot horse ready to die at any time to carry the famous warning. Chris S.
I didn't read this as often as I read Ben and Me growing up, so I didn't have as many fond memories going into reading this aloud to the kids to go along with our Revolutionary War history.
Tommy is reading my college text of Paul Revere's Ride and has commented on how accurate Lawson is with the big details.
The kids were entranced with this book.
The story is so sweet, we loved how Sherry slowly becomes a Patriot (character development in a horse!), and we really got a feel for the atmosphere in Colonial Boston around the Tea Party.
Lawson just captures certain characters (particularly Sam Adams and Paul Revere) so well.
Read for Goodreads 2018 Summer Reading Challenge, Expert Level.Forefathers: Read a book about your country’s independenceSince the other book that I read for this category was soooo short (I Survived the American Revolution, 1776 by Lauren Larshis), I decided to read another book in the same category.
It made me feel better about myself.
lolOkay.
So the history on this one was a little...creative.
But it was a fun little read and I did enjoy it.
It was well-written and a fun little piece.
While I wouldn't use it to write a research paper, it was the very definition of historical fiction.
Highly enjoyable, well-written if not entirely historically accurate. thoroughly enjoyed reading this novel.
Great read aloud!
Such a cute book, and well worth the read.
**review to follow**
Historical Fiction: 3rd-5th: Story of Paul Revere told from the perspective of his horse.
Read to Ben.
I do remember that I had read this years and years ago when I was a child. I came across it at the library a few days ago and read it again. It was just as engaging and charming as I remembered!
I did some fact checking after reading it, and many of the events were pretty accurate, but Paul Revere didn't actually own are horse at the time of the Revolution, so that whole part was fiction (I had known that he borrowed a horse for his famous midnight ride, but I had hoped that maybe he did own a horse by this name at some point, but looks like he didn't).
I really liked how it covered so much more than just the 'main events' that everyone learns about in history class, e.g. the voyage over by boat from England, British deserters who fought on the colonists side, everyday life in colonial times.
Historical FictionAges: 12 and upHardback This classic tale written by Robert Lawson who not only was an author but also an illustrator of many books use a uniqure way of drawing readers in.
This story is told by a horse who was once the fastest horse in the kings army.
Headed stragiht to the glue factory, the horse was saved and giving a second chance.
The horse using wisdom to tell events that it experienced and played a role in the American Reveloution.
Though this book didn't win and award the author won awards for previous work.
This story feels a bit antiquated.
It is a historical fiction, so that seems a given, but it seems a dated historical fiction, if that makes sense.
I did enjoy it.
It is told from the point of view of the horse Paul Revere rode on his famous ride.
What I like is that the book covers the background to a certain extent.
It builds the story from farther back in time and shows the mounting tension between the occupying forces and the colonists.
I think it had enough action to keep kids interested, though it is a higher AR level than you might expect.AR Book level: 7.5Pts.: 5.0
This is the story of the events preceding the American Revolution told through the eyes of Sherry, a British born horse who will end up working with Paul Revere on his famous midnight ride.The book is quite humorous at times, and since a horse is telling it, there are lots of other details about Boston, the British and the American colonists that make this story delightful. I am not sure the historical accuracy of some things, but overall just a fun book to cap off our Revolutionary War studies.
This was a nice evening's read. I've always enjoyed Robert Lawson's quirkiness and sense of humour, both in his writing and illustrations. I can't say this is my favourite of his books that I've read, but it was a fresh way (for me, at least) to look at the Revolutionary War and understand a little better the emotions and attitudes and incidents that led up to the war and experience, after a fashion, the exhilaration of being free.It's not an era I've done a lot of reading on. Anyone have any recommendations of Revolutionary War era stories that are good?
A really fun perspective of Paul Revere's role in the American Revolution."straight from the horses mouth"...as the jacket says. The horse goes from a die-hard Loyalist to a Colonial after being co-opted for the other side of the cause. He's a little snooty, but comes around with some lovin' and a different vantage point. The illustrations are fantastic as well. Robert Lawson fans will not be disappointed!
I don't think I've ever read a Robert Lawson book I didn't enjoy and subsequently purchase for my personal book shelf. The illustrations are always a delight. The POV is definitely another plus to recommend this retelling of the classic story of Paul Revere's ride. This makes an excellent avenue to pull middle grade students into reading biographies. Heaven knows they need more positive roll models.
Carina got this book from her aunts. It will be several years before she's old enough to enjoy it, but I decided to give it a read. It was pretty good. It's the story of Paul Revere from the viewpoint of his horse. It isn't heavy on historical detail, but it gets the main points. I think it will be a good read for her when she's 6 or 7.
I loved this book when I first read it almost 50 years ago. I found it online and purchased it from the Friends of the Johnson County Library, and reread it. I still love it. Robert Lawson was wonderfully creative, and his writing and illustrations are delightful. I think I may be headed towards a second childhood, but I don't mind if I get to revisit characters like Sherry, Mr. Revere's horse.
