https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114135.Genuine_Lies
Gosto sempre de voltar a Nora!! São leituras descomplicadas, que começamos a saber que vai acabar tudo bem, mas que me dão imenso gozo!Gostei muito deste livro, embora tenha previsto o desenlace bastante cedo, adorei ler o desenrolar da amizade entre Eve e Julia, a simplicidade de Julia e o facto de Eve ser tão excêntrica e especial!Recomendo sem reservas, uma leitura leve e descontraída!
My first Nora Roberts novel...truly a milestone.In "Who's Afraid of Happy Endings?" there's a clip of Nora Roberts describing an encounter with a woman who, upon learning Roberts' identity, said "Oh, you write that smut." Nora's response?
My response now, after reading one of her novels, is...yeah, she's still too easily offended, but she really doesn't write smut.
After reading Genuine Lies I'm not convinced she even writes romance, at least not in the sense that I attribute to the term.
Maybe it could be considered a kind of feminist, empowered romance, in that it is truly all about the woman.That being said, it was a good book.
4,5 starsInkvotaryThis was the second time that Ive read this book. And I was again hooked and very entertained. My rating stays the same and to dive into the glamor and shiny facade of Hollywood as gorgeous as ever. The style Nora Roberts had in her early work is fascinating and expresses the feeling the 80ies and 90ies had. Eve is a real diva. Everything she does, she plans or even has to deal with, she needs to have the control. The people in her life have to live the way she wants them. With
The style Nora Roberts had in her early work is fascinating and expresses the feeling the 80ies and 90ies had.
With some, that works, with others, it doesn´t.
In the end, when she has to learn the very hard way, that she can´t control everything, not even nature, she again, does everything to get that feeling back.
And fails.Soft, sensitive and with no word too much or too less has Nora Roberts written this great novel about the shiny world of Hollywood, family, love and what it means to be adopted.
Putdownable.
Yes, it does and I am….a lifelong fan…I am!!!But, back to the story of a Eve Benedict, the famous queen and movie goddess of Hollywood who hires Julia Summers to write her biography and her adopted son, Paul Winthrop, who plays an incredibly important part in both these women’s lives.There have been so many reviews written in the last 20 years on this book, so I am just going to write my feelings after my umpteenth read.*Although written over 20 years ago with a few dated references such as the clothing descriptions, the story still remains as fresh and new today.*I absolutely loved Eve. Her love for life, her kindness, her loyalty, her sexiness…here’s a woman in her late sixties who still has the power – not only because of her beauty but because of who she is inside – to seduce a gorgeous man half her age!!!!
heck, I’d even like to see an honest breakdown of the Speidi ordeal.Maybe I should pick up a celebrity bio…anyone have a good suggestion?Anyway, back to the book…Alongside Eve’s romances are a slew of industry secrets and lies.
Seriously, I had no idea who was threatening Julia and Eve because so many people were accused of hideous ordeals in Eve’s stories.
And the big shocker of the book is one you’ll probably see coming about halfway through (Paul tipped me off) but it’s not a secret you’ll see coming from the start of the book…definitely a really good twist.In the end what I enjoyed most about this Roberts title was that it was different.
This book is full of champagne, love affairs, and secrets.
This was over wayyyyy too fast. It's plotted crazily, in that messy way that turns out to be simple, and the beginning Hollywood glamour thing goes away when the trial starts, so the book feels uneven. And then it just ends. But Paul and Julia are great, and so is Brandon.
Or the biggest regret you'll have at the end of your life is wasted time."When Julia Summers is asked by wildly famous and legendary Hollywood actress Eve Benedict to write her biography, she agrees but has no idea what she is getting herself into.
Certainly not the amount of people in Eve's life that do not want the book written.
And of course the romance was passionate and wonderful and sweet, which is one aspect of Nora Robert's books that I don't think I will ever get tired of.
However, there were a couple of things that made me angry, (okay, okay, I understand that this book was published nearly two decades ago, but really?!) first, how Paul seemed to be verging on the edge of killing Julia himself at some moments, and second, there is no way a woman nearly in her seventies would go on a movie set and start shagging a 20-year-old boy, and I don't care how good she looks!

Me ha gustado bastante aunque quizás no he llegado a conectar del todo con Julia y Paul. Eve si, Eve es MARAVILLOSA ❤ Ahora que ya han pasado las fiestas me vuelvo a poner las pilas con la lectura que tengo un poquitín más de tiempo para dedicarle.
That plot twist will be remembered as the one I never, NEVER saw coming.
Hollywood actrice Eve Benedict, was jarenlang de grande dame van het witte doek. Tijdens haar carrière van bijna vijftig jaar heeft ze twee Oscars gewonnen. Ze is vier maal getrouwd geweest en heeft de nodige minnaars gehad. Nu is ze eindelijk bereid haar levensverhaal te vertellen. Julia Summers, een gerenommeerd journaliste wordt hiervoor gevraagd. Julia verhuist met zoontje Brandon naar Californië. Paul Winthrop is Eves stiefzoon en een gevierd schrijver. Julia’s komst zint hem niet en hij lijkt Eve en Julia koste wat kost te willen dwarsbomen. Mijn bespreking: https://alimolenaar.nl/stukjes/theate...
Well, I did wake up till 5.17 AM to finish this book. I liked it.I wanted to start writing biographies, one-fourth through the book. There were a dozen things I liked about the book, but the fact that I fell in love with Eve was the clincher. I was uninterested in the romance or the murder, but the biography shaping up in the book had all my intrigue. I hurt for the woman, I was amazed by her resilience and I hurt for the mother again.
Ništa posebno, predvidivo, na delove interesantno priznajem ali kraj me nije iznenadio..
y es algo que ambos van a necesitar.Los secretos de la vida de Eve ponen nerviosos a muchos participantes, las amenazas y los accidentes no tardan en aparecer y el verdadero motivo de Eve sale a la luz, quedando en evidencia que ni siquiera en Hollywood se puede huir de las mentiras.Nora Roberts escribe una gran historia con todo el glamour de Hollywood, es palpable a través de los flashbacks de la vida de Eve. Mientras se vive el romance de Paul y Julia en el presente, además de descubrir la verdadera mentira y quién está atrás de las amenazas para evitar que se publique el libro.Muy buena historia, debo admitir que no esperaba ese final....
August 31 The key characters are Eve Benedict, a famous movie goddess, Julia Summers, a biographer, and Paul Winthrop, Eve's handsome stepson.
Eve Benedict who is now in retirement, decides to write a biography about her and the things she did and went through in order to get the top of Hollywood.
In order to get this accomplished, she hires Julia Summers, a distinguished biographer, who brings alot her 10 years old son.
When word got out that Eve was planning to spill all her secrets, the people who knew they would be in big trouble if she did, got upset.
But Eve has her reasons...
Julia Summers is the biographer Eve has handpicked to tell her story.
Transported from her quiet life in Connecticut to glitzy Beverly Hills, Julia hates the limelight but loves her work -- and the home it built for the ten-year-old son she's raising alone.
But Eve's elegantly sexy stepson, Paul Winthrop, will challenge Eve's determination to tell her story -- and Julia's resolve to guard her heart.
And as Julia learns just how far Eve's enemies will go to keep her book from publication, she also discovers that Eve has one last, dark secret to share.
It is one that will change Julia's life -- and could cut it brutally short.
Nora Roberts wrote a breathtaking story of a glamorous actress who by the end of her life wanted to right all of her wrongs.
She brought her long lost daughter to her home, into her world to write her biography.
her daughter Julia didn't know Eve was her biological mother, as she was given up for adoption as a newborn.
By the end of the story I grieved for Eve, and missed the cast of characters.
I want to go back into Eve's world, relive everything over and over again.
Sempre que leio um livro da Nora Roberts sei que a autora nunca me vai desiludir pelo contrário, torna-me viciada nas histórias dela mesmo até ao fim e este não foi excepção.
Eve é uma daquelas deusas do cinema, é adorada por todos, já teve 4 maridos e uma enorme legião de amantes, mas decidiu que era a altura para escrever a sua história, mas há alguém que não quer que ela conte a história principalmente o segredo que ela esconde.
A história um espanto, como já disse esta autora não desilude com a história e em cada livro só me torna cada vez mais viciada.
Teoría confirmada (no era tan descabellada) y uno de mis sospechosos confirmados.Se nota que es una novela de hace ya unos años porque el protagonista masculino tenía tendencia a ser más rudo, pero ha sido uno de los libros de Nora Roberts que más me ha gustado en bastante tiempo, uno de mis favoritos también.
Eve Benedict, the elderly Hollywood star that Julia (heroine) is hired to write a biography for, is just as 'main' a character as any - and some might argue that the real meat of the story is only there because of her.
There she meets Eve's stepson, Paul (hero), who has an instant dislike for the idea of the book, but warms to Julia fairly quickly (as we might expect).
Nora sets up many potential villains in this book - NO ONE is happy that Eve is having this biography written, as it will reveal many dark secrets and stories.
Как будто бы историю расскажет она сама.Джулия понимает такое желание Евы, но как только звезда начинает говорить, становится ясно, что история будет полна скандалов, сожалений, побед и поражений, горечи утрат и разбитых сердец.
Ей кажется, Ева откровенна с ней, откровенна до конца, и она сочувствует ей и готова сопереживать, но это до тех пор, пока неожиданно одна из тайн Евы не затрагивает ее саму.И Джулия не готова стать частью такой скандальной биографии.Драматическая история встречи матери и дочери спустя много лет - это главная и основная сюжетная линия.
There she meets Paul, one of Eve's ex-husbands' son.
The romance between Paul and Julia is almost secondary in this book.
The first 3/4 of the book is all about Eve, her Hollywood beginnings, the lovers, the ex-husbands, the frenemies, all the Hollywood scandals and secrets Eve knows about and/or was involved in during the "Golden Years" of Hollywood.
The last 1/4 of the book is more interesting as Paul and Julia try to exonerate Julia and find the real killer from a pretty big suspect pool.Although there were lots of interesting Hollywood tidbits interspersed during Eve's reminiscences, I think that part of the story was overlong.
This book reminded me of Bette Davis.
I pictures Eve as Grande dame that Bette was.It took me a while to grasp on to this book.
She moves Julia in (so did Bette Davis of her companion until her death) and spilled her soul to her for the memoir.She went full out and stepped on toes in Hollywood without thinking twice.
Julia received death threats if she continued with the book.
Eve told Julia (who is adopted) that she was her daughter.
Then, Eve was murdered.An investigation tried to pin the murder on Julia.
Eve was SO Bette Davis.
Legendary movie star Eve Benedict has decided to tell her story.
There is opposition from many quarters, even including Eve's step-son, Paul Winthrop, but Eve is determined and Julia is thrilled for the opportunity, even though she must uproot Brandon again.
Eve's stories are exciting and she shows Julia her Hollywood life, but then the notes come.
But the sense of danger around her grows with each new story from Eve's life.
Three stars because it's easy to read and Eve and Julia are wonderful characters.
But this is an older book, so the relationship had to start with dislike and I hate that.
But there are some secrets people are willing to kill to keep off the page...This one was a huge disappointment for me.The suspense was the only good thing in this book, with its many side plots, suspects, motives, secrets...The rest of it was just “meh”.First of all it was the length, making the story drag its feet.
Maybe a 100 pages shorter, and with less “filler” scenes it would’ve worked better.Then there were the characters.
I didn’t particularly connect with any of them, especially Julia or Paul, hence the whole romance angle threw me for a loop.
The only character that appealed to me was Eve, and even her I could barely stand in some scenes.And the whole connection between Eve and Julia was predictable and cliché-ish.
I cant remember now if I've properly read or actually completed any of her other books, but this one blew my mind, crisp and well done.
Amazing read.
Eve's larger than life image, a woman who knows exactly what she wants and how best to deal with shit, indulge in female rituals, enjoy the rides of her life with her eyes wide open, she is a hell of a woman.
When something happened to her, I actually went down with remorse.
How can I continue reading now that Eve is ....
I love this book.
Eve, the image of chivalry over and over again.
No one can spin a tale like this Author. This has to be in my top ten reads, I have no clue why I haven't read it sooner than this? The storyline is fantastic the characters jump off the page, I can picture Eve like she is was right there in front of me. All the lies, deceptions, secrets they all make sense that's how I would picture Hollywood to be and the people from that era. I was raised with all those old movies. Loved loved this story
