https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153168.Wilfrid_Gordon_McDonald_Partridge
Once upon a time, if only in a picture book, a young boy—one Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge—lived next door to an old folk’s home.
Wonderful things happen.Mem Fox’s text and the gentle pastels by Julie Vivas render a beautifully told and depicted insight into aging, but more importantly, sharing.Once upon my own time, I had the opportunity to place 1000 or so copies of this title into schools through a program where I worked.
I knew this would be one of the picture books we’d use the moment I saw it.
It’s remained a sentimental favorite since the first time I saw it.
I adore this. Fun to read aloud, and makes me tear up every time. It's poignant in a kinda sad way, but also full of joy and hope. Young Wilfrid and his neighbors are all inspirational. The art is vibrant and full of movement, very appealing and a good fit for the text. Wonderful theme, successfully presented.
The older people in the book are overweight, have wrinkles, wear glasses, and wear commonly worn clothes for people at an old age home.
I have been to an old age home where you walk in and see several people lined up in comfortable chairs just sitting like they do in the book.
I use this book in my classroom to kick off our service learning project with the elderly.
The students have so many questions before we visit an old age home in Skokie and this book kicks off that discussion.
I enjoyed this story about a young boy trying to help an elderly lady find her memory again. It is important to identify the special bond between Wilfrid and Mrs Nancy. Quite a innovative idea, such a young boy having a close bond with residents in the nursing home next door to his house. Lovely book to read though.
As a younger child, my mother worked in a long-term care facility.
When Wilfrid overhears his parents talking about Nancy Alison Delacort Cooper's memory, Wilfrid sets out to find out what a memory is.
And with each resident giving him a different definition of the word, "memory," Wilfrid sets out to put together a memory collection for his friend.Writer's Workshop ready for discussions and writing invitations about memories.For older readers, talk about the power of definition.Wonderful, natural ladders to TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, SOMETHING TO REMEMBER, TIP-TAP POP, and a host of other books that celebrate multigenerational interactions.
This delightful book is about a little boy who befriends the residents of a retirement home next door to his house. In particular, he makes friends with 96-year-old Miss Nancy. When he learns that Miss Nancy is having problems with her memory, he takes action. A beautiful story about how compassion can make all the difference. I legit cried reading this.
Such a special story that showcases the beauty of relationships between the old and the young.
What is so beautiful about this story is that, upon discovering her memory loss, Wilfrid becomes the key to Nancy’s rediscovery.
Some might point to the parents reflecting the realities of life and there being a childhood innocence here, but for me Wilfrid provides an insight that back needn’t be turned.I really loved the concept of memory in this story, resembling something different to each of the characters and being a poignant symbol for perceptions on life and experiences.
This story of a young boy who lives next to an old folks home is a beautiful book about discovering what memories are, and how to share them with others. It reminds me of all the initiatives happening in the Netherlands and elsewhere in Europe to try to bring young children and the elderly together to share experiences and joy.We were given a copy of this book as a present at our Baby Shower this weekend, and friends were encouraged to write their favourite childhood memories inside. This is going to be a lovely keepsake to read to our children.
Absolutely precious. My two very favorite kinds of people: baby things and little old folks. Somebody has lost something and another wants to help get it back. SO precious! The illustrations are perfect. This is an absolute must read for all.
"Wilfred Gordon McDonald Patridge" by Mem Fox is a touching book mostly for adults but can be relatable to children.
One day, he overhears his parents talk about his favorite friend in the nursing home named, Miss.
Nancy because she has four names like him--Miss.
This is a great book that can teach kids about memory loss and can also connect kids to elderly people who I feel like we exclude from society.
I think it would be great to go to an elderly home and listen to all the stories they have when they were a young child.
I discovered it during grad school when I worked at a children's bookstore, and it was love at first read.
It's a beautiful book, and true in the way that sometimes only fiction is.Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge is a little boy who lives next to an old-age home.
When he hears his parents say how sad it is that his favorite resident, 93-year-old Miss Nancy, is losing her memory, Wilfrid Gordon quizzes all the other old folks about what a memory is exactly.
An incredibly sweet but intensely sad story about the relationship between the very young and the very old.I felt that the story-behind-the-story added significantly to my enjoyment of the book.The regular contact between Wilfred and the residents of the old people's home greatly contrasts with my limited experience.
We took X-man to my grandmother's nursing home and were quickly overwhelmed my dozens of elderly ladies desperate for some contact with a baby.
It seems sad that today there is such paltry contact between these two groups in society.If you planned on using this book to explain dementia to children I would be wary.
I love this story.
So he begins asking other neighbors and they each describe memories in a different way...something sad, something funny, something warm, something from long ago, etc.
Children can bring in photographs or objects that help them remember sad memories, funny memories, warm memories, and so on.
Then each of these photos or objects can lead to a story.
Or even if students can't bring in actual objects, just using these descriptions and listing memories that might be sad or memories that might be funny can be a great springboard for helping them record their own memories.
A little boy named Wilfred Gordon Mcdonald Partridge lived next door to an "old people's home" and he knew all the people that lived there.
Wilfred Gordon Mcdonald Partridge's favorite person though was a woman named Miss Nancy Alison Delacourt Cooper.
One day Wilfred Gordon's parents were talking about Miss Nancy and said that she had lost all her memory.
This is a great book about caring for people and talking about what memories are and what they can make us feel.
That’s because where Possum Magic is a fun, whimsical fantasy, Wilfrid is poignant and truly resonates.On its surface, it’s about a young boy who lives next door to a nursing home and befriends the residents.
The rest of us are stuck in the middle, too old to be innocent, too young to be wise, and too caught up in our day-to-day lives to give it much thought anyway.Wilfrid’s favourite friend at the nursing home is Miss Nancy Alison Delacourt Cooper, because she has four names just like him.
One, who we call Grandma Millie, is 94, and just like Miss Nancy Alison Delacourt Cooper, lives in a nursing home.
Mem Fox’s Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge uses first-rate dialogue to express ideas of friendship, caring, curiosity, and remembrance. Fox also makes splendid use of figurative language by comparing memory throughout the book to a number of different things. She describes memory as something “warm,” something “from long ago,” something “that makes you cry,” something “that makes you laugh,” and something “as precious as gold.” This picture book allows young readers to engage in a rich and rewarding story. The illustrations and colors are tempered and bring great sensitivity to the story.
A lovely book for children exploring what memories are. Beautifully illustrated.
First sentence: There was once a small boy called Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge and what's more he wasn't very old either.
His house was next door to an old people's home and he knew all the people who lived there.Premise/plot: Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge has many friends; but his most special friend has four names just like him: Miss Nancy Alison Delacourt Cooper.
Equipped with descriptions of exactly what memory is, he sets out on a quest.
A lovely story about the friendship between a little boy and the people in the old folk's home next door. When one of his friends loses her memory, Wilfred tries to help. Gorgeous illustrations and a heart-warming tale. You could do quite a lot with this in class - exploring what makes a memory, what would children put in a memory box... could lead into writing poetry (I'm thinking Kit Wright's Magic Box model). I imagine you could have a fair bit of book chat with this one. Lovely.
I liked this book. I thought the innocence of the boy and his love for Mrs.Nancy is sweet. I don't know if I would read it aloud to my classroom but I would definitely sit it out for quiet reading time.
A nice story in which different people tell a young boy about their perceptions of memories, and he uses this to help an elderly friend get her memory back.
A beautifully written and illustrated book. It is easy to read, and I love how there is such a wonderful relationship between the young and the old. My daughter loved it when I read this to her.
I think this is one of my favorite Mem Fox books. The sweet story of a boy who helps an elderly friend find her memory.
I love Mem Fox!
Andrea loves this book.
Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge is a heartwarming exploration of the meaning of memory.I also really liked the relationships between the little boy and his elderly friends: once again, heartwarming :)Interestingly, the adults in the illustrations are all legs and bellies (and tiny heads, haha). It's such a smart way to represent a small child's point of view!
Oh! So sweet! A little boy lives next to a nursing home and learns that one of his dear old friends has lost her memory. So he sets out to learn what a memory is and give her some.Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
I unequivocally enjoyed this picture book and so did my 5/6 students. It was so beautiful and created discussion around memories, losing them and how we can help each other. I wanted to reread it straight away as it tugged at the heart strings.
He is friends with a bunch of people from the old people home next door, especially Ms. Nancy.
Ms.Nancy is special because she is older and does not remember things like we do (she has short term memory loss).
This sparked his curiosity, so he asked many of the other friends he had at the old people home.
The little boy ran home and gathered as much of these things as he could find.
I put them in a basket and gave them to Ms. Nancy.
She remember things that happened when she was young, all the way up to the time she met him.
An Aussie favourite, this book is a staple anywhere young children lurk.
He is concerned about Miss Nancy and wants to help restore her memories.
He asks each resident in turn, 'What's a memory?' They respond differently of course and Wilfred gathers objects that, indeed, remind Miss Nancy of her past.
The strength of this book is that there is something for everyone: Wilfred's quest and success, the strong relationships and sensitive treatment of the aged.
It's sustaining for all the audiences.For the language focused classroom teacher who would ruin a good story with exploration of grammar, this is a great book for looking at adjectival clauses and similes (in context).
