https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1514059.Regain
Giono has a unique voice, even in translation, so I can only imagine what he would read like in French.
Not far from the village of Aubignane is a 40 mile long plateau, higher than the surrounding countryside."Flat as a threshing-floor, it was a meadow of clouds.
The path was nothing more than a tiny rill, dried up to the bone.As far as the eye could percieve, it was like a great sea, darkened by a surge of juniper shrubs.
The warmth of the earth stole up into your loins; the grass was all round like a warm, sheltering sheepskin.
Like all of Giono's early works, it's a parable set outside of historical time, evoking the deepest mysteries of human nature and ecology, showing how people work together with each other and their natural communities to renew life on earth.
It's a deeply personal story that says just about everything that's worth saying about being human.
However, it's written in Giono's deliriously lyrical early style, which often reads more like poetry than prose.
Self-taught, immersed in nature from childhood, Giono developed his own totally unique voice.Note: The French original is Regain, and this book has been published in English under the titles Harvest and Second Harvest.
Dans le fond, je l'ai trouvé plus intéressant à lire que Colline, mais quand il y a si peu d'action dans un livre, on en devient plus attentif au style et il m'a paru moins bien écrit, moins fluide à lire et surtout moins poétique.
La vie habite tout ce qui nous entoure, prête à rejaillir au milieu d'un champs de ruine, elle attend juste qu'on l'ensemence avec nos yeux, nos mains et tout le reste.Bon, je suis pas non plus devenu fan de Giono en relisant Colline et Regain mais je serai moins dans l'angoisse lorsque je croiserai son nom dans une librairie.
Often beautiful, but after putting it aside for a while, I found it too dull to proceed to the second of two parts.
Regain est un livre écrit avec passion, évidemment pour des exigences personnelles intimes.
On voit que l'auteur aime le sujet de son roman et le traite avec soin.
Toutefois, c'est juste pas trop mon type de roman.
Tout d'abord pour le style, qui essaie d'être poétique grâce à des métaphores symboliques un peu trop pathétiques, qui montrent la faiblesse de leurs analogies si on y refléchit juste un peu.
C'est un livre écrit avec un message, un message conservateur de retour à l'antiquité et au travail dans les champs, et tout semble construit non pas pour suivre une logique en soi, mais pour demontrer cette thèse.C'est quand même un livre bien écrit, qui se fait lire sans souci.
amazing, in the most low-key of ways. It's short. It's also truly time traveling back to a place that had thrived, became barren, and was made to thrive again through the hard work of simple daily living. It touches and teaches about life, about living, about relationships, everything, simply by showing. What a great writer.
I love Jean Giono in general but I particularly like this one. His use of "the wind" throughout the book is really effective. His capacity to write about the sensuous world and the eroticism of the natural through Pan's presence is amazing.A wonderful story about sacrifice and change and healing.
Uno dei Giono più appassionanti.
J'ai aimé ce livre bien dans la ligne des œuvres de Jean Giono Émouvante histoire de ce village qui se meurt et retrouve la vie grâce à deux êtres qui se rencontrent.Beau, émouvant
Splendeur des mots de Giono, des paroles du génie. Un chef d’œuvre en puissance.
Giono does so many small things right: the astute touches; the intuitive grace; the gentle touches; the comic touches; the poetic moods; the slow suspense of a settler story; the dance between man and woman from time eternal.
I feel the wind that his people feel.
And some of the similes failed too – but I suppose that could be a loss from translation.
I try not to think about 'loss' from reading a translated book, but the more I think about translations, the more I understand their artifice, contrarily, the more I believe in their ability to capture the 'truth' in an author's voice.
Earth, peasants, melancholy and loneliness but joy and getting back to the land.
The novel is beautifully translated from French, bringing out intelligent, poignant prose of a man tied to the land,adamantly staying put just when everyone desserts the village.
There is a bit of the fantasy as fate arranges him to begin life again on the land turning from a hunter to a farmer, underpinned by an almost misfortunate accident resulting in him marrying a girl who rescues him.
Together they replenish the land, and live happily ever after so to speak.
I remember when I was in my early 20s, hanging around NYC starving and broke, I came across a set of Giono's books in a used bookstore.
I had no idea who he was, but I was drawn to them by force.
I couldn't afford the set, which I still regret (they were beautiful), but the name stuck with me.
Since then, I have had a soft spot for this Provencal giant.
Time to read this one, I think.Sometimes the translation captures his beautiful raw language.
Other times not.
His writing is like the hands of Alain Pascal, the winemaker at Gros Noré.
Animal hands.
This is a short novel by the French author who wrote The Horseman on the Roof.
I gave it four stars at first, and then upgraded to five when I opened it at random towards the end and reread a dozen pages.
Giono is a terrific writer, Hemingway-like in his simplicity, and this book is wonderful.
The tone, and the main character, change completely during the course of the novel from dark and almost menacing to bursting with life and quiet joy.
The story of a remote village that comes near to dying out and madness, this is a great book.
Ce n'est qu'en arrivant à la page 100 que je me suis rendue compte que ce livre était le troisième d'une trilogie..J'ai lu ce livre sur deux fois, la première fois je me suis arrêtée à la page 49...au beau milieu du déclin d'Aubignane, et je suis contente d'avoir repris la lecture, car après la pluie le beau temps!Jean Giono a bien su illustrer la relation du campagnard avec sa campagne et le rôle de la femme symbole de fertilité..
L'histoire d'un petit village de Haute Provence qui arrive au terme de son dépeuplement, à la croisée des chemins entre sa mort ou sa renaissance. Ce roman est une ode à l'harmonie avec la terre, avec la nature et sa nature. Un livre touchant, nostalgique d'un temps révolu, où l'on avait le temps, peu besoin d'argent, la vie avait un sens simple, évident. En lisant le dossier, on perçoit encore mieux la puissance et le génie de l'auteur. À lire !
This book got me going on Giono for a while. His most famous novel is "Horseman on the Roof", which was made into a movie starring Juliette Binoche. But "Harvest" is a gem. It rustic, simple and beautiful. Giono is the French equivalent of our Steinbeck, which makes this book good summer reading for those who want romantic rural settings and hearty characters.
On dirait du Pagnol. Je ne connaissais pas l'auteur, mais c'est lui qui a écrit "La femme du boulanger".Le livre se lit bien. L'histoire d'un village où il ne reste plus qu'un homme qui arrive à trouver (tomber) sur la femme avec qui il va remettre de la vie dans ce village.C'est assez "grossier" comme résumé, mais le thème de "Regain".
Ce roman est très court d'ou vient son grand avantage. On pourra metre sur un cours de litterature francaise pour des non-francophones sans leur faire peur. On y trouve une belle qualité de francais. Les personnages et les conflits son faciles à comprendre. En somme, c'est un outil pédagogique qui fait bien son travail.
Un classique. Qui aurait cru que j'aimerais un classique ? Ce n'est clairement pas mon genre de prédilection malheureusement mais ce livre... Oh là là ! Je me suis vraiment attachée à Panturle et j'ai encore plus aimé suivre son évolution au côté d'Arsule. C'est une magnifique histoire sur la renaissance d'un village... Oui bon, il faut le lire pour comprendre ! La fin est vraiment magnifique.
Yawn. mediocre prose at best. maybe it was better in the mother tongue, but en anglais, it is pale. Not to mention the storyline is downright boring and I had to force myself to plod along to the end.
Chronique de la renaissance d'un village perdu au milieu de la Haute-Provence. On redécouvre l'importance qu'avait la terre il n'y a encore pas si longtemps ; et grâce au style bien particulier de Giono, on sentirait presque sur son visage ce vent à la personnalité propre.
Jean Giono is one of the greatest inspirations of my life and writing. Stepping into any of his books, but especially this one, is like embarking on a genetic recoding of one's self. I emerged from this book lustily enthused for all of life.
Harvest I love Giono!
great prose. harsh landscapes, simple people, would like to read more from this author
feel the wind, hear the brook, see the sky. love this guy
Poetické vyznání drsnému kraji, moc a moc se mi líbíla, dal bych 6
giono has a wonder style of writing
Considering how much I loved The Man Who Planted Trees, this was a big letdown. It wasn't nearly as engaging or interesting.
Il ne s'y passe rien, (ou presque) et pourtant on aime le rythme, la nature, le verbe.
