https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235712.Ordeal
After nine years of abuse from a man she describes as so controlling that she wasn't allowed her own purse, let alone bank card or driving licence, she had finally been pushed over the edge.Minutes earlier, as she tells the story, she had been held down and savagely raped by her husband, Ray, again.
Judge had ordered her not to return to her own home, occupied by Ray and the children she hasn't spoken to since 5 November, when she told them she was going for some Christmas shopping; in reality she was heading to court to hear her sentence."Leaving those kids that morning was the most heart-wrenching thing I've had to do in all my life," said Sarah.
I read it when I was in my teens and it appalled me the life this poor woman led.
I didn't like it, it messed me up for a while, but reading it was eye-opening and it blew my mind, that a man, Chuck Traynor, was capable of doing this to another person.
Just awful : (I absolutely hated the man after reading this book, back then I had visions of finding him and kicking the crap out of him I was that angry.
I know they are making a few movies about her life, it will be a travesty if the truth isn't depicted as she described.
I don't care, police or not I would be running for my life.I can't decide if I believe everything in this book, but it does have an eerie ring of truth to it.
She went ahead and turned against porn even though she was being offered million dollar contracts.
That might be a low moral decision, but that kind of money would change my life.
Something bad had to happen for her to say no when that kind of money could have changed her life as well.
It definantly leaves me believing that she never wanted that type of life in the first place.
Many people, even now, do not believe Linda's story of abuse and virtual slavery at the hands of her husband/manager, Chuck Trainer.
The reaction to the book, even among people I know, is a testament to the power of this woman's story and what our interpretation of it says about how we view sex and autonomy.
The attitude being that if a woman is raped it is because she "asked for it." Dinner parties at the time would nearly explode in arguments and as one woman said at the time, "Any person who believes Tess to be a harlot rather than a victim is a person I don't want to know." I feel the same way about Linda.
Ordeal' such confronting reading.I never heard of Linda Lovelace until I picked up her book 'ordeal' and read the blurb, it sounded like an interesting story however I didn't realise how shocking it would be.
I really do feel for Linda Lovelace and the book at times was very hard to read.
After finishing the book I was inspired to do more research and soon found there were many mixed opinions about Lovelace and the 'real' story of what actually happened.
From my research I do believe that 'ordeal' is the actual true account of Linda Lovelace's life.
To come out, and live somewhat a normal life as she did and to be brave enough to put these words out there for people to read renders me speechless.This is the biography of Linda Lovelace.
Linda's pornography film "Deepthroat" was the beginning of mainstream pornography that we have in today's society.
She fought to get away from Chuck many times, and finally was successful.Before her death, she did get to live a somewhat normal life, married to a good man who was a provider and she also became an activist against pornography.

I have just finished reading Ordeal and I am speechless.
I was disgusted at so many intervals of this book, I was shocked to my very core.
After reading this book you grasp the agony that Linda lived with for years, you understand that she was not the woman who revolutionized the porn industry.
Anyone who cannot handle shock, I don't recommend this book to you, not at all.
I'm sure that there are many empowered women in the porn industry, Linda was not one of them.
She was courageous for telling this story, I really appreciate the experience of reading this.
you can't look away.Your heart is racing while your eyes are desperately seeking some sign of life, searching for a survivor amidst all the blood and destruction.And Linda survives, not only does she survive but she thrives.After years of living in a nightmare world from the deepest pits of hell, she escapes.She finds a man who loves her for her, not for the Lovelace Legend.She has two children and attempts to live a normal happy life.Sadly, on April 3, 2002, Linda was in a car accident.She suffered massive trauma and internal injuries.
Also towards the end of the book she came off as being a little homophobic which I didn’t appreciate at all but the book was written in a different time so you have to remind yourself that saying things like that was ok back then, certainly not ok now but people wouldn’t have batted and eyelid back in the 80s.It’s a very sad book and one that I’m glad I read, I don’t think I would ever be able to read it again, more than once I had to put the book down and take a break it got so extreme and personal.
Dość wstrząsająca książka. Opisująca życie kobiety, która wbrew sobie stała się ikoną pornobiznesu i bohaterką "kultowego" pornola.Niestety całość napisana jest tak, że momentami traci na wiarygodności i sprawia wrażenie literackiej zemsty na biznesie i ludziach, którzy ją wykorzystali i porzucili bez grosza. Relacja o głębokiej więzi z Bogiem, który pomógł jej przetrwać pornoniewolę brzmi dziwnie. Tak czy inaczej wygląda na to, że ta zemsta się należała.
The most moving aspect was that "Linda Lovelace was not a good actress." Nevertheless, "you had to be a good actress to fake her reactions." It is a heartbreaking story about abuses that can simply happen to anyone (and if you think otherwise, you need to educate yourself on the seasoning process).
It really is a miracle that Linda Marchiano managed to survive her entire "ordeal." And to just consider how much courage she had to have to come out with her story - especially during the "Golden Age of Porn"...
A must read for anyone who still believes the porn/sex industry can be anything but an abusive and exploitative institution (or who actually believes her first books, "Inside Linda Lovelace" is in any way factual).
I have pretty mixed feelings about this book.
I've read my share of porn autobiographies (Traci Lords, Jenna Jameson) but I figured I should head to the source of these memoirs to the original.
So essentially, I don't know how much of th narrative is credible but I can live with that.The actual writing is pretty weak- regurgitated conversations and prurient details that are caveated with "this is so awful; I'm sorry to use this language" sorts of warnings.
My final verdict would be: read it if you're completeist on porn biographies.
A trash classic. It's a little sad just how earnestly Gloria Steinem, Andrea Dworkin, Catharine MacKinnon & Co. took it. Ladies, you kinda missed the point.
U might be thinking what inspired me to pick up this book out of the whim,well yesterday i was searching for a suitable movie to watch and i stumbled upon, a movie which was called as 'love lace,' sure Amanda seifreed did a marvelous job in this ,but i must say, the story was too one sided and did not do justice to this amazing and thought provoking topic.so which led me to her books.This is the story of a girl, naive and callow,and how she makes the mistake of her life, by living with a complete stranger, just so she can taste freedom, but wht does she know about this strange person, she is living with.Naive and innocent linda browley wanted freedom but as her mystery man turns out to be a vicious animal who runs a whore house, she felt more trapped than ever, and top of that he forces and blackmails her into prostitution and sex slavery.Poor linda!
Later, Linda found that Chuck is a monster who physically, verbally, and sexually abused her.
Linda was a virgin, but then Chuck took her virginity.
Linda and Chuck met a pornographer and the rest is history.
Apparently, Chuck trained her to relax her throat muscle to do this.I had to hold my breath while reading this book.
Chuck always used his weapon, that he would kill whoever got in the way, including Linda's parents.
Chuck and Linda were regulars at Hefner's lavish parties.
I read this book before I see "Lovelace", Linda's biopic starring Amanda Seyfried.
I dont want to believe any woman has gone through this because doing so would make me wonder if I could be Linda Lovelace had I made different choices in life: a thought too horrible.
She blames a car accident for her meeting Chuck Traynor and getting into the sex industry-no, Linda, that was your poor choices.
As I said, this book is leaving me conflicted, I really dont want to be angry at her, but I find that I am.As a companion piece, on Netflix is a documentary Inside Deep Throat, its really good and touches on Linda Lovelace's abuse, though mostly focuses on the times, the movie and the men behind it, the sleazy, disgusting movie makers-Im sorry but they are-and poor Harry Reems who was totally thrown under the bus.
I had never heard of 'Linda Lovelace', until I read there was to be a film made about her.
She finally escaped from him and formed a new life with children and a new husband.For me, this is a book about abuse and sexual control and how hard it is to escape from an abusive partner.
How does it feel to know that images of your abuse remain online/on tape?
This book made me very thankful that I never encountered men who treat women as sexual commodities or punchbags and that society now takes domestic abuse more seriously.Now I have read this book, I don't want to see the film.
I really felt reading this that it spoke more about the human race than it did about the porn industry; so many people around her knew what was going on but no one was willing to try and help.
Don’t worry, the world is a big place, there are still plenty of good ones, I’m not saying the planet is filled completely with sex crazed, manipulative vermin; I’m just saying that one should be careful, that’s all.
I’m sure in the past that I’ve probably manipulated a situation, which may be considered at someone else’s expense, but ever since reading this book, I know for sure that I haven’t and never will.
The Lovelace story caught my attention so I decided to read more about it, and found this book somewhere along the way.My reaction when I first began reading this book was probably the same reaction many people had: "Why didn't she just get away?
I wasn't in her shoes, and Lord knows they must've been hard shoes to walk in.
It is my understanding that, in order for this book to have been published, Lovelace had to pass a polygraph test to prove she was telling the truth about the contents of the pages of the book.
They walk amongst us each day.
This is a memoir, written by Linda Lovelace - known as the porn star in Deep Throat, a movie that shot the porn industry into even more acclaim.
What a brave lady.This book made me so angry at the world, and in particular the men in it and i had such a hard time not getting up in the middle of the office, and kicking all the men in their nads.
Just cause they were men.I'm so sorry that Linda didn't have the amazing life she deserved following her brave escape from Traynor and the porn industry.
She deserved so much more and the world and the people in it, let her down.
When I finally got to the last page of this memoir, I wanted to do exactly what Linda had said she was going to do.
This book left me feeling tired, used and just all around dirty.
I can't say that I've been happier to finish a book, just so I can hand it off to someone else.
I have experienced a terrible story and through it felt bad for the leading lady.
I have been as touched by her recounting, But I can honestly say, hers is a story I am only too happy to leave behind.
Goodbye, Linda.
I feel wrong giving it 5 stars and saying I really enjoyed the book when Linda went through such terrible things.But I did enjoy the read.
It's hard to imagine these things happened to her and maybe happening or might happen to others beside her.I feel bad for the things Linda had to go through in life.
Makes realize somethings you thought were bad in your life aren't that terrible at all.
Fearful because something like this could happen to anyone, at anytime.I can't even begin to imagine what went through Linda's head during this time in her life.
I read this book after watching the recent Lovelace film.
I did not expect the book to contain such horrific horrors as it did.
In contrast, the film is a very tame Hollywood-ized account of Linda Lovelace's life.
It does not even the scrape the surface of the humiliating experiences which she endured.
The book, at times, is difficult to read as Linda chronicles her nightmare years with the abusive Chuck Traynor.
She suffered extreme exploitation and degradations.
The power and control Traynor had over Linda was immense.
However, Linda, in her life post-Traynor, was not a victim any longer.
The first time I heard about this version of Linda Lovelace's story was in one of Gloria Steinem's essays and I knew I had to read Ordeal.This book was horrifying and very hard for me to read so I read it in tiny bits.
I haven't seen "Deep Throat", I am sure there are more hard core movies around nowadays, but it is also terrifying that those who were fans when the movie came out are still saying "yeah, yeah, she is lying." Well, even if only a small part of the book is true, it is still a pure horror story.
I've heard about Linda Lovelace, of course, like pretty much everyone else of my generation.
I heard that she had been abused.
I read that she was a porn star.
This book is one of the saddest I've ever read.
Linda went through hell on earth.
This poor girl endured so much.
I've read comments by people who don't believe her story, who believe that she "loved" sex and "loved" being a porn star.
To them, I say read this book.
Unfortunately, Linda passed away at age 53, in an auto accident.
RIP Linda.
Read it, if you can endure the sadness.

In total there have been three "memoirs" of Lovelace' s experience - one written by Chuck Traynor, one a composite of the truth and what would sell, and this.
I imagine this is as close to the truth as we will ever get, as horrifying as it is.
In reading this, you don't want to believe it - you don't want to believe that anyone could be as brutal as Chuck Traynor or as victimized as Linda Lovelace.
You want to believe that she, to some extent, took part in her life.
This was a disturbing read.
The recent movie is like a walk in the park on a Sunday morning compared to the horrific reality the real "Linda Lovelace" had to deal with day-in day-out while living with, or rather *under*, the sadistic psycho pervert Chuck Traynor; who ruled over her with an almost literal rod of iron.
And when she met Chuck she hoped to have found a means of escape from her parents.
But what she really found in Chuck was an escape from the frying pan not into the fire but into a raging inferno.
This book stands as a record as to why so many of us are terrified of the implications of modern pornography. Deep Throat, a movie viewed by just about everyone I know, documents the worst of the sex industry--women who performed under coercion. While the book doesn't make a specific political commentary, it's a reminder that all sex workers deserve much more than mere dollars and amplifies the voice that the profession should be a choice.
