https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557153.No_Highway
He discovers a fatal flaw in some airplanes, and no one believes him except his boss who is neither a genius or a crackpot, but he is a decent guy.So Mr Honey has to go on a crazy air journey halfway across the world, because that's what you do if you're a colorless shy decent genius in a Nevil Shute novel, and then of course some beautiful intelligent women fall in love with him (one of them is a movie star) and decide that the best use they could possibly make of their lives is to keep house for him and his daughter (his wife died tragically in the war) because being a genius apparently means that you have never heard of washing your floors.
It's interesting to re-read a book after a long time, and see whether your opinion of it has changed.
From the age of 11 to 14 most of what I read had something to do with aeroplanes, and if No Highway had not been about aeroplanes I would probably not have read it at all.When I first read the book the most memorable things were the technical bits to do with the aircraft.
But I thought it was a good read back then, and it's still a good read now, and probably will be in 60 years' time too,
Suddenly realising the danger, mild mannered Dr Honey has expressed his apprehensions to the nice stewardess Marjorie Corder and to the famous Monica Teasdale, a much-married American film star, an erstwhile favourite of Theo’s and his late wife.
Dr Honey lives in a world of domestic male incompetence which can only be remedied with the installation of a good woman; who will it be – stewardess or actress?
In this one, Shute is himself twice, both in the narrator (a young manager at an aeronautics company) and the main character, a weedy, pathetic, but brilliant "boffin".The novel opens with the young manager, Scott, talking about his job managing a bunch of brilliant but mildly eccentric scientists at a safety facility, a job much like the one Shute had before the WWII.
Honey comes to Scott and tells him that the tail assembly of the brand new plane currently flying the Transatlantic flight is going to crystallize and shear off after a certain number of hours.
A withdrawn scientist working in self contented obscurity is forced into trying to avert aviation disaster. It starts clever but ends very stupid. A fine thriller ruined not by plotting but by the relentless desire of the author to foist an unlikely happy personal ending. Could have been so much better.
Bettie's Books
The aftermath of this incident, Honey's relationships with a stewardess and a fellow-passenger he met on the threatened plane, and the involvement of the narrator and his wife with Honey and his motherless young daughter Elspeth, form the rest of the plot.I read this novel after having watched and enjoyed the 1951 film adaptation No Highway In the Sky. It's a case, I think, where book and film are both very good on their own and complement each other well even though they differ in some particulars.
Whew, finally finished this!
Very tedious reading because the plot was so focused on a certain type of plane and Mr. Honey trying to prove that it would crash after 14,000 hours of flying time.
I like planes and flying, but all I can say was that this was boring.
Really boring :P I like the beginning and Mr. Honey's character was unique (although weird at times).
My favorite scene was when he was in the plane scaring everyone about crashing.Anyway, glad to have read this, and I probably will still watch the movie based off this book.
This is a weird one. Fundamentally, there's a good yarn here but it is clothed in some very old-fashioned views about gender; about social status and about families. It made for slightly uncomfortable reading, even though I have lived through the era in which is was set and I therefore understand how things were then and how times have changed.I would not therefore recommend the book very strongly.
Delightfully engrossing with deft characterisation and dramatic moments galore..
I was less comfortable with some of the non-scientific themes in the book but that it more a reflection of my own thoughts as opposed to how they are discussed in No Highway and I think it is a credit to the author that he manages to achieve this - I also thought that this book was a great reminder of the time before email and cell phones were such an easy out for communication and that there were once modern times when getting a message from the UK to the wilds of Canada in a couple of days was considered pretty impressive!I will have to hunt down the movie version now to see how well the book translates - I would really recommend it for any one with an interest in the technical aspects of aviation, with a smattering of romance, or who is simply looking for a good read by the fire...
The gripping part involves a search by a bunch of engineers to prove that the tail wing of a new passenger plane contains a latent design flaw (which admittedly doesn't sound that gripping, but in Nevil Shute's hands becomes so) while the mundane part concerns pretty much everything else, specifically a horrendous domestic drama involving a cast of insipid female characters straight out of a Cholmondley Warner sketch.
Etc.Another thing which bothered me was that Shute frequently violated one of the principal rules of POV by narrating several chapters outside of the experience of the main character (the book is written in the first person).
Because I have an interest in things aviation I was drawn towards this story, which at its heart deals with the serious issue of metal fatigue in aircraft.
One of their scientists has theorised that such catastrophic collapses can occur after a certain accumulated number of hours of flying in the aircraft "Reindeer".
This theory causes major conflicts with the airlines, the aircraft manufacturer and the scientists at Farnborough, as there is no actual evidence to support the theory that has been placed before all the interested parties.
For the Farnborough scientists it becomes critical that they find the crashed aircraft and the critical parts to try and identify if metal fatigue was the cause.
Free download available at Faded Page.The movie based on this book is available at YouTube
Loved it, contains everything from (slightly dubious) science and engineering to pseudoscience and superstitions. Brilliant read.
He argues that repeated cycles of vibrations cause aluminum atoms to absorb sufficient energy to eject a neutron, converting them to isotopes and creating a crystalline chemical structure that weakens the atomic bonds; in other words, aluminum is prone to fractures from “metal fatigue.” Honey estimates that after 1,440 hours of flight the tail will fall off of the newest transatlantic airplane—the Rutland Reindeer.
Does it suggest that Honey is bonkers, thus undermining the credibility of his professional work?News arrives that a Rutland Reindeer has crashed in Canada; it turns out that it had about 1,400 flight hours.
I was really pleased to receive a Shute novel in a vintage book subscription package I've signed up to - Shute's A Town Like Alice was one of my favourite books as a teenager, so I was delighted to get the chance to read another of his books.
This is a great escapist read of the "little man" going up against major players in his bid to prove his theories about how "metal fatigue" might affect an aeroplane.
Amusingly, he does seem to have no issues attracting women (I suspect this is wish fulfilment on Shute's part) despite being described as having the features of a toad.
The big issue with it is that it's a product of a its time.
Engaging:I did have to keep reminding myself that this book was written 70 years ago and not get angry at the way women were depicted etc.
It was strange to read what felt like a modern novel, but was missing the modern tech such as email/cell phones/gps etc.
I was sad that the ageing film star was pushed aside to make way for the younger air stewardess.
I did rather like Mr Honey in a bumbling sort of way.
Surprisingly easy to read despite much of the book being about metal fatigue!
Cleverly structured, if slightly repetitive story about a small group of people waiting for something disastrous to happen, and how this forges relationships and leads to different ways of seeing their own lives.
As always with Shute, characterisation is subtle and sympathetic, as window into the day-to-day minutiae of ordinary English people living in the 1950s its detail is incomparable.
There's also a great deal about aeronautical engineering, which was the author's day-job career, and another instance of his uncanny prescience, this time in its theme of airframe metal fatigue causing major problems to an airline and the people associated with his fictitious 'Reindeer' aircraft, which would come to pass in less than 10 years with the real Comet airliner.
Good. This was quite good. It is a little bit dated and the characters are very much of the period, very male orientated. The story is not bad, a little bit forced in places, but it flows quite well. The characters are good and fit the story well particularly the main character, quite quirky. Overall I liked it, it’s not exceptional but it is good. I would recommend it, particularly if you are a fan of Shute.
I originally read this after seeing the excellent movie, NO HIGHWAY IN THE SKY, which starred James Stewart and Marlene Dietrich. Loved the book even more. Though I was still a child at the time Shute wrote this, the social attitudes that many reviewers have commented on were real. I think it's important to read books from other times in order to understand how far we've come and how far we have to go. I wonder what people 60 years from now will have to say about our culture?
This classic work of fiction, came as a gift to me by my first major client at an investment bank. The novel is gripping and beautifully graphic till the last few pages. The most impact the work creates is in terms of life lessons that are drawn home by way of artistically crafted characters. One among many impressionable references is that the world is moved ahead by little insignificant men.
I didn't like this nearly so much as other Nevil Shute books I have read. It is the story of a piece of research into airplanes, that becomes very practical when one crashes. Lots of technical detail, blustering males and women who think their best contribution might be cooking, cleaning and picking out clothes for a clever man.
The story is still goodI read this book for the first time over 40 years ago. It's still a good read, which is unusual given the way one's tastes change over time. Anyone who enjoys aviation stories will enjoy this one.
Engrossing, as all novels are written by Nevil Shute. This one concerns a nerdy scientist who discovers a faulty mechanism in a chain of aircraft. When nobody believes him, he publicly disables a plane so that it will not put any more lives in danger. There is also a love story.
This book is one of those that you keep drawn to so that you might touch the every day bravery of the normal hard working plodder in life. The mundane, ordinary , boring man who is capable of miracles in such a unself conscience way that he is just a smidgen away from being an angel. A must read .
Borrowed from Michel Dignaud3.7 Very good. While it is till about airplanes and flying I found it more interesting than Round the Bend. I has all the hallmarks of Shute. Good characterisation and story telling.
The story is fun but it is very dated, set as it is in Britain shortly after WWII.
Intriguing.
Un romanzo "dimenticabile"...
