https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184449.1905

This book is an engrossing political look at the 1905 Russian Revolution (which was ultimately unsuccessful in overthrowing the tsar).
The first few chapters (I think first 5) are a difficult read, but are very important economic and historical background.
It has been said that in revolutionary times, hours can be more important than years previous and this book describes that flow of the working class.
From the forming of the St. Petersburg soviet to its functioning (it was more of an administrative body, coordinating the actions that the workers throughout the city were taking).
A must read!
Al no existir una burguesía democrática con tradiciones parlamentarias, y ante la incapacidad de ésta incipiente clase capitalista en constituirse como tal y liderar la revolución burguesa contra la autocracia, ese vacío de dirección fue ocupado por el proletariado y sus organizaciones, dándole un carácter socialista al procreso revolucionario en curso.
Lenin hasta las Tesis de Abril, no reconocería ésta característica.La creación del consejo de diputados obreros (soviet) con representantes electos democrática y directamente por los trabajadores de cada fábrica, fue uno de los gigantescos pasos que ha dado la humanidad, y aunque éste fue disuelto, la revolución derrotada y sus líderes perseguidos y deportados, quedó la experiencia como ensayo general para la revolución triunfante de 1917.
To understand how the proletariat came to power in 1917 in the Bolshevik Revolution, it is imperative to understand how the older generation learned from its' mistakes in the Revolution of 1905.
Trotsky would become a leading light of the October revolution of 1917 which inaugurated the first workers state in history.
Events would prove him to be the most consistent defender of a Marxist perspective on the issue of revolution in Russia.This book is an invaluable insight into how he developed his analysis and why it is a critical addition for contemporary Marxism.
At that time Lenin, having come over to Trotsky's perspective (persuaded in 1917 by experience of events which Trotsky is able to foresee and explain in 1905) called for "All Power to the Soviet" setting the stage for the building of socialism, in Russia and internationally.
