https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862012.The_Clue_in_the_Crossword_Cipher
I love how they are always ragging on Bess for her weight. This book more than any they really got into her about it. OMG she is over 100 lbs! She is going to break the alpaca's back!
Yet another great addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
To decode some old plaque.
Nancy dives into a creek to save the plaque, and takes a ride on a runaway ox.
Nancy almost gets sucked out of a plane (at a high cruising altitude, the passenger door just falls off the fuselage!
A guy hurls roofing material at her in an attempt to kill her and also throws a BOMB at her.
I'm waiting for the bad guy in the next book to be smuggling table salt.
Anyway, it makes NO sense for him to try to kill/hurt Nancy.
ALSO: Ned kisses Nancy.
In this one, Nancy and her friends travel to Peru to solve a 300-year-old mystery that has baffled generations.
I find it interesting that Nancy and her friends have unlimited funds to fly here and there.
This book had quite a bit of history in it and the girls travel to places of archaeological interest.
In the end, the mystery is solved, but this is the first time that Nancy has encountered drug smuggling - although I'm not sure how hard core quinine is; it definitely isn't cocaine or heroin.
It seemed more like a travel ad than a typical Nancy Drew book. I also didn't appreciate the barb about one of the girls being heavy for weighing, I kid you not, "more than 100 pounds." They are supposed to be 18 year olds. I know this book is 50 years old, but maybe a rewrite on that part ...
If you have sniffy eyes, you might be a very bad person.....
I'm enjoying my read-through of the Nancy Drew series as an adult. Some of the wording is funny, but the stories are timeless. I am on a mission to read all of them!
Fun. Why does Nancy always get to travel
nancy is introduced to the Incans.
This one I do remember, I remember them searching for the giant monkey out of rocks from the air. Good story.
So cool that Nancy gets to travel the world and solve mysteries! This time, she heads to Peru to solve a 300-year-old mystery about a wooden plaque featuring the carving of a monkey.
Another fun and exciting whodunit in this series.
The format presented here appears as a forerunner to the Dan Brown location chasing sequences mystery/clue books.
Instead it was just a socially reactive chase sequence where adversaries raced and tried to prevent Nancy Drew from determining the meaning of a token object plaque.
I would have been about the same age as this Nancy Drew is portrayed in the late 60's, and I think that a lot of this culture and archaeology was fairly well known at the time.
This is the closest ND comes to being James Bond-ish - placed in gorgeous scenic locations, fighting crime while solving mysteries.
Because we were independent travelers and not on a tour, I traced many of the places she had been probably because somewhere in my subconscious the story was still there.
It was only when my sister traveled to the region this year that I dusted off The Clue in the Crossword Cipher and re-read the whole book in one sitting.
She/he must have traveled to these locations to be able to write fairly realistically about them.
The Clue in the Crossword Cipher  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 44th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew and her friends travel to Lima, Peru, to solve a mystery involving a long-lost treasure and a puzzle of an ancient wooden plaque. The mystery might turn deadly, however, as Nancy uncovers a smuggling operation. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local
Eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew and her friends travel to Lima, Peru, to solve a mystery involving a long-lost treasure and a puzzle of an ancient wooden plaque.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
You didn't know that Nancy Drew went to Peru?
I read a few Nancy Drew mysteries in middle school but giving that she didn't have a canine or equine sidekick, I lost interest in the series pretty fast.
The past few months I've been raiding our library system for All Books Peru though, and when this came up I knew I had to give Nancy another shot.
Nancy, along with her two pals Bess and George, decide to travel to Peru to help another friend Carla solve the mystery behind a mysterious plaque that has been in her family for generations.
I'm pretty sure I wanted to read this book 25 years ago.
Too bad I didn't because reading Nancy Drew as an adult sucks.
And for that we should be thankful!) Consider a summary of Chapter 1:CARLA'S FAMILY: Want to borrow our mysterious family heirloom, Nancy?
I'll do my best to solve the 300-year-old puzzle.
CARLA: Oops, I dropped the heirloom into the river, Nancy!NANCY: No prob.
NANCY: Can I fly to Peru to solve this mystery?NANCY'S DAD: Of course, Nancy!
But where's that heirloom?!
It's...gone!Chapters 2-20 are much the same.And don't get me started about poor "slightly overweight" 18-year-old Bess (13):"Miss Marvin, you must weigh more than a hundred pounds.
I think this mystery stands out somewhat from many of the other Nancy Drew mysteries, at least in my view.
I found it very easy to become absorbed in the mystery, and I also really enjoyed all the interesting facts about the Inca that were worked into the story.
I don't know how many of them would be considered completely accurate by today's archaeological community, but I was glad that the Inca culture and history played a significant role in the story, and seemed to be represented with a good deal of respect.
This book I read is called The Clue In the Crossword Cipher.
The main characters are Nancy Drew, a yonge detective, George Fayne, one of Nancy best friends, Bess Marvin, another one of Nancy's best friends and, Carla Ponce, a friend that needs a mystery to be solved.
In this story, it is about Nancy, Carla, and her friends who have this plauq that may or may not lead to treasure.
While on their path to find the mysterious treasure they run into a few problems.
Nancy Drew the Clue in the Crossword Cipher is a good book.
This one was a bit too unbelievable.
Minutes after Nancy's friend allows her to take a mysterious family heirloom home, someone tries to steal it!
It's also incredibly handy that Nancy's contacts are able to fly her and make travel arrangements at a moment's notice.
She's even allowed by the Peruvian government to dig in a historical landmark!
Other politically incorrect moments: whenever Bess is put down for her weight.
Her cousin George seems to think Bess won't be able to attract a man if she keeps eating.
I think I prefer the more updated versions of Nancy Drew to these original stories.
Lovely young Carla Ponce who lives in Peru invites Nancy and her friends Bess and George to visit her and solve her "monkey mystery," which promises to lead to a fabulous treasure.
The clue is carved on an intriguing wooden plaque that is so old most of the crossword cipher is obliterated.When a notorious gang headed by El Gato (The Cat) steals the priceless relic, Nancy's hopes of solving the mystery are almost shattered.
But the daring young detective's ability to think fast and act quickly results in the recovery of the plaque.Nancy's determined efforts to decode the crossword cipher take her to the magnificent, awe-inspiring Incan ruins at Cuzco and Machu Picchu.
I received this book as a prize for a spelling contest in 4th grade, and I liked it a lot back then because I was so into mystery stories.
"Carolyn Keene" has her girls basically giggling their way through their mysteries, or shedding tears at the drop of a hat.
She's the female equivalent of Chet Morton in the Hardy Boys series, who's always terrified and 'quavering'.
I've enjoyed the nostalgic journey of reading the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew books of my childhood these past few months; they took me back to a simpler time where my life was sweet and playful and full of promise.
Nancy Drew and The Clue in the Crossword Cipher by Caroline Keene is a must read for every mystery fan out there.
I believe that this is one of the best Nancy Drew novels out there because of the fact that you see almost all of the clues in the first part of the book but you never notice them until the final ending where you think "Seriously!
The other reason why I fell in love with this book is Bess.
I also enjoyed how much history this Nancy Drew book contained.
I hope you will love this book just as much as I did!
This story involves a wooden artifact that seems to have some kind of message on it.
Nancy, Bess, George and a girl named Carla set out to find out just what the message means and if it leads to anything specific.
The artifact gets stolen, recovered, stolen, etc.
Along the way there are the usual thugs that Nancy encounters (Where is the Shadow now that she could really use him?) along with the normal attempts to injure or kill Nancy.There's also a good bit of travel involved in this story, and some cultural lessons that are quite interesting.
A rather good story overall.
I always like when Nancy, Bess, and George travel for a mystery, so I really enjoyed that aspect of this book. They went to a lot of really interesting places, and I thought that the author did a pretty good job of representing the Peruvians fairly, which was nice, because sometimes Nancy Drew books don't deal super well with other cultures. My one big issue with this book was the everyone was really mean to Bess... like usually they make some jokes about her love of food, but I felt that George was really nasty about it in this book.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
After reading a total of 42 Nancy Drews, in addition to multiple Kay Tracys and Trixie Beldens during my middle school years, I believe (and I may be wrong since it was quite a while ago) that this was the last book I read.
I remember feeling I'd finally reached my limit for this genera.
This is not to detract from the book, which I'm sure was just as engaging as the rest of the series.
I believe I'd just gotten bored with ol' Nancy.
I believe I pretty much jumped from this to Jurassic Park...it was time to quit.
Another decent Nancy Drew travelogue mystery, this time to Peru where Nancy and her friends spend more time looking for crooks than looking at the scenery at Saksaywaman (Incan ruins outside Cuzco), Los Arrayanes National Park in Argentina, Machu Pichu and the Nazca Lines. I think I enjoyed learning about these places more than the characters!
The three girls were intrigued by the various effigies, most of them made of clay. Many were hunched-up figures, seated with their knees near their chins. "This was also the position in which [the Inca} usually buried their mummies," the guide explained.No, Nancy Drew. No.Too many exclamation points. Nancy Drew is always in peril, but she never dies.
Nancy helps solve a centuries old Peruvian puzzle. She, George and Bess even get to travel to Peru in search of treasure, all while trying to avoid "El Gato."Seriously, how many times can they call Bess fat? Nancy and George are NOT nice about a girl who is described as being "slightly overweight" at the beginning of the book.
