https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4980.Breakfast_of_Champions
I've never read anything by Kurt Vonnegut before.
The book looks like this:[image error]I'm enjoying the book because it feels easy to read.
I'm not enjoying the book because parts of it induce discomfort.
One of those things is a lava lamp.
My lava lamp looks like this:[image error]* * * * * * * * * * * * *Listen: On the base of the lava lamp is a sticker.
The sticker is a picture of me and Agent in jail.
Agent and I are not actually in jail, but if we were, we'd probably be happy anyway.[image error]
A novel is a dead tree with words on it. Breakfast of Champions is a great dead tree with words on it.
In the very unlikely event that I should find myself at a convention of bookish intellectuals, I feel like I'd fit right in if I sipped my champagne and said "Oh yes, indeed, I simply adore what Vonnegut has to say about the absence of free will..."This is the kind of bollocks that runs through my mind on a daily basis.
Should I find it funny?The funniest parts are his jokes about white people and the way in which they celebrate their "discovery" of America in 1492, despite the fact that others had actually been living on the continent for thousands of years.
For the whole novel we are prepared for a momentous meeting between our main characters, the still undiscovered, aging, soon to become monumental, SF writer, Kilgore Trout and Dwayne Hoover, a successful Midwest car dealer.
And then I had come suddenly to pity them, for I understood how innocent and natural it was for them to behave so abominably, and with such abominable results: They were doing their best to live like people invented in story books.
There are many characters, themes and places that appear in more than one novel of the author and that is a prize for his fandom, of which I am still part of.
Breakfast of Champions or Goodbye Blue Monday, Kurt Vonnegutتاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم از ماه ژانویه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: صبحانه قهرمانان؛ نویسنده: کورت ونه گات؛ مترجم: راضیه رحمانی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ققنوس، 1393، در 312 ص، مصور، شابک: 9786002781147؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مصبحانه قهرمانان رمانی طنزآمیز است. دغدغه های ذهن نويسنده، درباره ی دو پیرمرد سفیدپوست لاغر اندام، که روی سیاره ای در حال مرگ زندگی میکنند. کیلگور تراوت، نویسنده ای پرکار، و در عین حال، ناکام است، که ب
حضور تراوت، در آن شهر رخدادی ست، که زندگی چندین نفر را دگرگون می‌کند؛ از جملهٔ این افراد: دواین هوور است، که فروشنده ی ماشین‌های پونتیاک، و از ثروتمندترین شهروندان میدلند سیتی، هست.
ونه گات در واقع، شخصیت‌هایی آفریده، که با آن‌ها خود را متحول می‌کند، و به این نتیجه می‌رسد، که انسان‌ها دو بعد: «ماشینی» و «مقدس» دارند.
اما در درون همه ی موجودات، به طور یکسان، ماهیت مقدسی نیز، وجود دارد که نویسنده آن را «نوار لغزش ‌ناپذیری از نور» می‌نامد.
ونه گات در این رمان، از تکنیک‌های بسیاری استفاده کرده، تا اصول سنتی داستان نویسی را، در هم بریزد.
The Emperor’s New Clothes, As retold by Kurt Vonnegut, taking a leak (view spoiler)[ a main theme in Vonnegut's novel, symbolizing holding up a mirror (hide spoiler)] in front of Humanity to mirror their fictionalized realities!(Vonnegut was apparently capable of prophetically foreshadowing what would happen to America in the 21st century, when leaks are indeed mirrors of the country's general condition! America is really taking the piss, and he KNEW it would happen.)Once upon a time, there was
America is really taking the piss, and he KNEW it would happen.)Once upon a time, there was a storyteller who tried to honestly hold up a mirror (leak) in the face of a pitiful assembly of postmodernist, cool people posing as representatives of the long lost species of homo sapiens, satiated from overdosing fast food, fast reads, fast philosophy, fast bad chemicals, fast fashion, fast listening and fast wisdom - not to mention fast governing."Listen!"He said to his followers.
(I suspect many people say they like Vonnegut because he is so damn weird, but theres gotta be a purpose to it.
As if the author considers himself not only separate from, but better than the human race and its tendencies.Finally, as if the book wasn't self indulgent enough for Vonnegut, he inserts HIMSELF as a character for the last third of the novel, telling us what he can and can't do if he wishes and how every characters actions are predetermined by his will, even as he interacts with them.
It follows a sci-fi author (Trout) of Vonnegut's own creation who meets a Pontiac dealership owner (Hoover) in the 1970's.
Their meeting puts Hoover over the edge of sanity through one of Trout's novels, making him believe he's the only person with free will in the universe, and that everyone else is a robot (a meat machine as Vonnegut puts it).The highlight for me is one of Trout's novels about an alien race that communicates only by farting and tap-dancing.
Nothing is sacred in Breakfast of Champions.
The narrator/Philboyd Studge/Vonnegut makes his appearance as the Creator of the Universe (or at least the creators of the characters in his novel) as he delivers what amounts to a searing meta-critique of American culture.
After his brief appearance in Slaughterhouse-Five, it was fun to see Kilgore Trout, the failed science fiction writer, take center stage.
Of course, Vonnegut makes it clear that he as the narrator is the one pulling the strings and arranging, of all things, a Nobel Prize in Medicine for the confused Trout.
Fun, interesting and bizarre!
Along the way there is plenty of time for digressions full of deadpan takedowns of American culture as well as for dozens of endearing little doodles from our author.The end result is a novel that reads like something an off-beat science fiction novelist would write if given the task of explaining the United States in the 1970’s to an alien species.

His ideas are crazy yet strangely perceptive; it’s like he sees beyond the idiotic surface world of human culture, of life itself, and makes fun of it.
He also uses self-reflective addresses in the middle of a narrative sequence: his own personal voice comes through, the voice of the individual, and acknowledges the fact that this is actually a book.
Perhaps since the last Vonnegut book I read.
The persona that narrates this novel is a real oddity; it’s almost like Vonnegut has written a story about his imaginary friends, and about imaginary parts of himself.
So this guy, Dwayne Hoover, is a rich owner of stuff, primarily a Pontiac dealership, and he has these bad chemicals in his brain.
Anyway, Dwayne reads one of Trout's novels and he thinks it's real which really messes with those bad chemicals in his brain.
Vonnegut hits on some pretty heavy stuff, and he never holds back in how he presents it.
Vonnegut has a pretty bleak outlook on life and society in general, and he presents his worldview in a very unique way in this book.
I don't think I'll read anything like it again.
I mean, I've read about a dozen books of his and I don't recall a true stinker in the lot.
Jesus fucking Christ, Vonnegut seems to say in just about every one of his books, can't we all stop acting like shits for second?!I won't try to describe the plot of Breakfast of Champions.
I will however say that this book is a good starting point - not a necessary one, but a good one - from which to begin a Vonnegut reading journey.
Then again, you won't go wrong starting elsewhere.
When I read this novel as a teenager, I remember finding the following paragraph strikingly witty:1492.
As children we were taught to memorize this year with pride and joy as the year people began living full and imaginative lives on the continent of North America.
Actually, people had been living full and imaginative lives on the continent of North America for hundreds of years before that.
1492 was simply the year sea pirates began to rob, cheat, and kill them.Though since then, the point has been made even more economically by the well-known poster below.
Sometimes I think of it as second shelf Vonnegut (four stars).
I'm sure the picture of the asshole and the beavers might just be the inspiration my sixteen-year old needs to start this book.
Today is Valentines Day. Christians, and by Christians I mean a Pope (I can't remember who), tried to turn a Roman festival into a Christian holiday honoring a martyr (this also could be a common myth).
I think, perhaps, my birth was so easy for my mom because of Vonnegut's book.
The old fashioned way.Here is a picture of my brain receiving its extra fold from Vonnegut's at age 5 months:
Breakfast of ChampignonsNow It Can Be Told, Thank GodSo I finished reading this novel soon after I arrived at my hotel, and I thought I’d better write a review while it was still fresh in my mind.
Or somebody was.Trout didn’t seem to recognise Vonnegut.
Would you like another martini?” I nodded.I never saw him again, nor my drink.Somebody else sat in his seat.
Perhaps I tried a little too hard, for the next time I looked at our table, neither one of us was there.Breakfast of Champions
Listen:What the hell was that?I finished reading Breakfast of Champions, closed the book, went to Goodreads, stared at that big empty review box, ate a cookie, stared at the screen some more, hands hovering over the keyboard, not moving.And so on.Now, if you are thinking “what is that stupid paragraph above?” Don’t worry about it.My Achilles heel as a reader of modern fiction is that I don’t cope well with unconventional narrative styles.
Only Vonnegut can get away with this kind of thing.The main story arc is to do with a very successful businessman called Dwayne Hoover slowly losing his mind and eventually runs amok after reading a sci-fi book by Kilgore Trout called “Now It Can Be Told”.
The House of Trouts:Kilgore Trout’s latest book, World’s Funniest Thermonuclear Accidents, was forthcoming from Michael O’Mara.
He shared a bathroom with Kilgore Trout, whose latest book, Complications in the Chrono-Synclastic Infundibulum, had forthcome from Yale Press.
The two Trouts co-rented a kitchen with Kilgore Trout, whose book I Was a Teenage Obergruppenführer, had not found a publisher.
All three Trouts did not read each other’s books and did not discuss literary matters at all.
So for those unsure about this strange little novel, take my word that this ranks among Kurt’s greatest books, along with the nine or so others of equal import: Mother Night, The Sirens of Titan, Jailbird, etc.
He was a graduate of West Point.
West Point was a military academy that turned young men into homicidal maniacs for use in war.Another brilliant ride through Vonnegut-land.
Part comedy, part searing social satire, this book has its fourth wall broken more than any other book I’ve read.
Also, I am now completely convinced of Mr. Vonnegut’s influence over Douglas Adams.The Creator of the Universe had put a rattle on its tail.
The Creator had also given it front teeth which were hypodermic syringes filled with deadly poison.
Sometimes I wonder about the Creator of the Universe.And so on.
What is life we live from day to day?
What dreams do we dream and what ideas do we have in our heads?“The things other people have put into my head, at any rate, do not fit together nicely, are often useless and ugly, are out of proportion with one another, are out of proportion with life as it really is outside my head.”Some obey God, some obey government, some obey voices in their head and some obey no one.“He spoke of his wife and son again, acknowledged that white robots were just like black robots, essentially, in that they were programmed to be whatever they were, to do whatever they did.”Under the close scrutiny of Kurt Vonnegut our quotidian life turns into the most preposterous occupation in the world.
Shit, piss, fuck, cunt, cocksucker, motherfucker, tits.ASSHOLE.
It's nearly as indecent as how Vonnegut treated his character Kilgore Trout.
In fact, the author shows up, treats the damn guy to success, wealth and fame, tells him he's gonna win some fancy awards in the future, and he does it only because he can.What a damn jerk.I mean, look at all these other SF authors other than Kilgore Trout who spend their lives writing stories in perfect irony and obscurity, only to die unsung and unloved, UNLIKE Kilgore Trout.
This kind of unflinching gorgeous tribute (in perfect irony) to SF authors, in general, makes me weep.
It stabs me in the heart.Oh, other than that, this novel is PACKED with damn funny lines, ideas for SF novels, scathing satires of our entire way of life...
One of the great things about the book is Kilgore Trout’s endless imagination and his ability to come up with a science fiction story for just about anything.
In other words, the author refers to himself within the book as the creator of the book (VALIS is another great example of this technique--it’s a marvelous book) Can anyone explain to me what the first three walls are?
I want to say happy 50th anniversary to the author, but then I realize the book was written in the early 1970s and Mr. Vonnegut has since passed on.
Thank you Fujisawa library for letting me read this book free of charge!
This is only the second Kurt Vonnegut book I’ve read.
After finishing  Breakfast of Champions , a book about nothing in particular and which doesn't necessarily lead anywhere, I was left with the distinct impression that I am yet unable to fully grasp and appreciate Vonnegut's humor and satire.
In a less than shocking twist of fate however, I happen to love books that challenge me, and I've already formulated a plan to devour Vonnegut's entire opus over the coming months.
The rest of the book encompasses a cast of eccentric characters and an absurd little narrative, both of which are clever hosts for a not-so-disguised satirical look at American culture, with all its horrors and absurdities.
It's about as "Vonnegut" as Vonnegut books go - with Kilgore Trout as a leading character, and Vonnegut mixing his views into the narrative to the point of eventually inserting himself, as author, into the story.
Perhaps my views are colored by the final Harry Potter, which I read right before "Breakfast of Champions." When I picked up Vonnegut, I really wanted a *story* and Vonnegut's plots are, well, not the point.
In many ways, "Breakfast of Champions" is as much a clever and humorous essay as it is a fictional narrative.

Somehow I never got around to reading this one - either it wasn't on my boyfriend's shelf at the time or maybe I healed up enough to be able to go back to work at that point and just never got to it.But now, years later, in a different apartment, surrounded by different dogs, under different circumstances (ie, no gaping wound, no pain pills), I find myself up after 1 in the morning finishing off another Vonnegut book.
The only thing that is the same is the boyfriend himself, in another room, sound asleep.I think Vonnegut is the sort of author that deserves to be read in one sitting, preferably at night.

This was the first Vonnegut book I read, when I was 13.
I chose it from the ones my mother had because, when scanning through, I noticed the little drawings.
I am so grateful that those little drawings made me choose this book first.
Since then, after reading many others, I know it was definitely the best to introduce me to the Vonnegut genre.
Vonnegut changed my life.
Every time I finish a Vonnegut, I sit with it in my hands, pondering and examining my life.
If you are interested in reading Vonnegut, I definitely recommend this book for a beginning.
