https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250057.The_Deadly_Percheron
He sat down in the easy chair across from my desk, and said, ‘Doctor, I think I’m losing my mind.’”Jacob Blunt seems perfectly sane, but the scarlet hibiscus in his hair begs to differ.
The redhead glanced up at us as we came into the room, her eyes intense green blurs in her beautiful, blank face.”While George Matthews is waiting for a train to go home, he feels a sharp blow to his back and wakes up in an insane asylum with everyone referring to him as John Brown.
He spent the first half of that life in advertising (1944-1963), becoming Vice President and Director of Edwin Bird Wilson Inc, and the second half teaching Advertising and Creative Writing at the New School for Social Research and writing copy and doing publicity for various charities, including the United Jewish Appeal and the United Negro College Fund.The Deadly Percheron begins like a nightmare, a joke, or a shaggy dog story: a young man walks into a psychiatrist's office, wearing a large scarlet hibiscus behind his ear, and says, “Doctor, I think I'm losing my mind.” Jacob Blunt tells Dr. George Matthews that he has been hired by three “little men” (Joe, Harry, and Eustache) to perform certain odd tasks: wear specific flowers in his hair, whistle loudly at Carnegie Hall, and give away quarters on the street.
El escritor norteamericano John Franklin Bardin (1916-1981), es autor de una decena de novelas, la más famosa de la cuáles quizá sea ‘El percherón mortal’.
Sin embargo, escritores como Guillermo Cabrera Infante, lo consideraban como uno de los autores más originales de novela policial, y lo equiparaba a Edgar Allan Poe y Dashiell Hammett.
El lector cae en las redes de Bardin desde el principio: un hombre entra en la consulta del doctor Matthews, creyendo que se está volviendo loco.
Se trata de una lectura absorbente como pocas, de esas de las que no te puedes separar.
Utterly, utterly brilliant. I completely devoured this book and now I want to find more by the same author. It kept me guessing right until the very end. I suppose the plot is convoluted and the repeated bouts of amnesia may seem to be a little unbelievable, but I was so caught up in the action that I willingly suspended disbelief. For most of the novel I was unsure as to whether George Matthews (or John Brown) was an entirely reliable narrator, but that was fully resolved in the end. Fabulous stuff.
a truly weird, madcap detective novel that left my head spinning. It was kind of like walking through green smog, but it smelled nice, like a joke, or carnival food. The basic story: a man claims a leprechaun paid him to be somewhere at a specific time. He goes there and a woman is killed. There is a vague mention of a horse. People can't remember who the main character is. He thinks he might be crazy. He meets several circus freaks.and so on.
The young man, named Jacob Blunt, tells the good doctor that he is going insane.
To his horror, they inform him Dr. George Matthews was found dead ten months ago.The only way he's able to get out of the mental ward is by pretending to be the derelict John Brown and concocting a story the hospital staff will believe.
After Matthews meets the "leprechaun"the second time, he begins to unravel the mystery of what happened to him in the intervening months between his blow to the head and waking up in the mental hospital.
Like George Matthews, the psychiatrist, you don't for a minute believe the leprechaun story, but you want to know what it means.
Instead, he uses them to prolong and to deepen the mystery.* In his Introduction to The John Franklin Bardin Omnibus, Julian Symons claims that George fears he is going mad.
And this is the key to the book's reevaluation: if the reader brings this perception to the work, then the whole thing becomes a psychological game, with reality in the balance.
But it's a game the reader must play with himself, for Bardin does nothing to encourage it.* But for all that, this is a good book that deserved rediscovery.

I certainly enjoyed good chunks of this. But there are also chunks that I don't think date well, like the hokey ending. Whew.
Bill Kerwin’s review of THE DEADLY PERCHERON piqued my interest, so I picked up a copy. I have to say that I really loved the first two thirds or so. But the conclusion does not fulfill the drama of the beginning.
While the body of the book doesn't sustain the remarkably odd, sometimes hilarious, almost hallucinatory beginning (even descending into some "he said, then she said" mundanity at the 2/3 point), Bardin fleshes out his mystery with consistently interesting characters and an existential queasiness that never really lets up, even during the epilogue.
This was apparently Bardin's first novel and it has some typical first book issues (a dragging mid-section, awkward transitions, occasional info-dumping, and difficulty tying up loose ends) but it also establishes what would appear to be the writer's primary and very personal interest in identity and personality and the ways we negotiate and integrate our multiple social selves in the world when either our outside surroundings or our inner resources break down.
Bardin writes a nicely psychological story that really throws the reader for a loop early on and guaranteed that I stuck around for the end; I loved how such a ridiculous setup was made to seem chilling and even riveting, and I actually think the way it was resolved was inventive and interesting.
Πάντα δυσάρεστη γι' αυτόν που την βιώνει & το περιβάλλον του, πάντα ενδιαφέρουσα ως σενάριο.Πολύ προχωρημένο για την χρονιά που γράφτηκε(1946), έχει κάποιες δυνατές στιγμές που ελκύουν τον αναγνώστη ακόμα και στις μέρες μας.Ο Μπάρντιν εκμεταλλεύεται τα παιχνίδια που μας παίζει η μνήμη, καθώς και τα εύθραυστα όρια ανάμεσα στην τρέλα ως ιδιορρυθμία και την τρέλα ως ασθένεια, για να πλάσει μια μαγική, μυστηριώδη ατμόσφαιρα και να προκαλέσει μια διαδοχή από απρόσμενα επεισόδια.Κρίμα μόνο που στερείται δυναμικής και περιορίζεται στην βαρετή -για τα γούστα μου- ψυχιατρική οπτική ντιβανιού.
Από κει και πέρα ο αναγνώστης καταλαβαίνει ότι έχει να κάνει με one man show, και αυτή η παράσταση για έναν ρόλο, του αφηγητή και μόνο, θα τον πάει μέχρι το τέλος.Ευχαριστώ τη φίλη που μου το χάρισε, η ανάγνωσή του ήταν ένα ευχάριστο διάλειμμα.
One of my favourite films is 'Mona Lisa', which I was looking up on IMDB to see if anyone had any words of wisdom about the significance of the white rabbit.
I discovered that, not only is one of the characters reading 'The Deadly Percheron' in the film, but that the film is apparently full of references to it.
There are no white rabbits in the book but it turned out to be quite a find all the same.It's hard to believe this was written in the '40s - it seemed to me to be at least 20 years ahead of its time in both style and content.
However, there's still more than enough great stuff here to make it well worth reading.
A very strange and brilliant crime novel originally published in 1947. It begins with a psychiatrist who is visited by a young man wearing a flower in his hair; the young man is doing this because a leprechaun has paid him to do so. From this opening the story gets wilder and wilder, until it culminates in a truly bizarre confrontation in a Coney island funhouse at night. There are twists galore and although the prose style sometimes is a little clunky (inadvertently increasing the oddity of some scenes) as a whole the novel is magnificent.
Wow! I really really hated this one!Definitely odd, with bizarre circumstances and characters, written in a stylized tone familiar to anyone who has seen old films -- the problem is with all of the unnecessary details meant to keep the reader from discovering who the murderer is.What a mess.
This is copy 31 of 300 signed numbered copies.This is the sixth book printed under the Millipede book imprint.
As much as I think the "X meets Y" type of review is as lazy as the "like Z on acid" type, this read like Phil K. Dick met Raymond Chandler, or perhaps Dashiell Hammett, all of them on acid. Dated, though, and a bit clunky, the story was fun and certainly unlike any other noir I've encountered. Amnesia, though, as a plot device, is about as recommended as time travel.
El libro es bueno y se lee con fluidez; plantea una diferencia a la novela policíaca tradicional por el hecho de que el investigador no sólo debe salir a buscar pistas en el exterior, sino que debe hacerlo en sí mismo puesto que le han hecho perder la memoria; además, el hecho de que tal investigador sea un psiquiatra incide de buena manera en la anécdota, pues los cambios de identidad hacen pensar en desajustes mentales del personaje - al estilo de Lost Highway de David Lynch - y no en la elaborada trama en que se ha visto inmerso.Sin embargo, el final es un tanto forzado y hasta un tanto predecible; a mi gusto el libro vale más por la construcción de los nudos que el por el desenlace de lo mismos.
This is an incredible novel and one I wouldn't have heard of but for the Pocket Essentials book on Noir Fiction. Lately I'm into noir novels of the immediate post-war period, and while I enjoyed parts of Gresham's Nightmare Alley I found this to be more readable and its plot more supple. Hell, this has a rollercoaster ride of a plot. I'm keen on reading the other two in Bardin's early trilogy of noir novels, Devil Take the Blue-tailed Fly and The Last of Philip Banter. Highly recommended for noir fans.
4.5/5.En un inicio no tuve mucha intención de leerlo porque no me gustaba la portada pero una vez iniciado fue maravilloso.Es un libro que revela lo necesario en cada momentos y te mantiene a la expectativa constantemente, la narración fue buena en todos los capítulos aunque sentí que no se puede llegar a conectar con el personaje del todo.
For its influence on the movie "Mona Lisa."
Incubi della mente o omicidi reali? Un giallo psicologico ante litteram, dove lo psichiatra diventa vittima dei suoi stessi incubi.Un autore sottovalutato per decenni, che aveva detto:"C'è un'unica ragione per cui si scrive un romanzo: perché venga pubblicato e letto. Per me non c'è distinzione fra un romanzo giallo e un romanzo, ma solo fra un buon libro e un cattivo libro. Un buon libro trasporta il lettore in un nuovo mondo d'esperienza; è come un esperimento. Un cattivo libro rinforza l'atteggiamento intransigente del lettore verso la sperimentazione di un nuovo mondo."Sottoscrivo in pieno.
This started off exceptionally strong, with a very bizarre premise which was handled in a logical, clinical tone (fittingly, as the protagonist was a psychiatrist). Likewise, the middle portion was bizarre, but intriguing as the protagonist wrestled to deal with the events; however the last third of the book which tried to pull everything together was a bit of a mess.
Lo que empieza siendo un hecho absurdamente cómico se convierte en una increíble historia policiaca donde no faltan todos los elementos típicos de este género pero tratados de tal forma que en ningún momento de la historia pierde ni su interés ni la originalidad. Para todos aquellos lectores amantes de la novela negra.
UnputdownableMy first Bardin, and it's made me a die-hard fan. Reading this is like finding Cornell Woolrich had a lesser known brother. Darker, more complex, even more chilling. Bardin is Woolrich on steroids. Totally satisfying!
Clever story about a psychiatrist who is catfight up in a series of murders. While there are clues throughout the story I didn't guess the murderer. Takes place in early 1940s.
Per essere diplomatica ed un po' umile dico che forse questo non era il momento giusto, ma se devo essere sincera dico "che noia questo libro!"
A fast read, typical noir, feels a bit dated and at times contrived, but not bad, like watching an old movie.
I really like this novel. It is well written and the characters and plot are composed with care. I'd say that this one of the best detectives I've read.
