https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298816.Peace_Child
"At first I sat there confused. Then the realization broke through. They were acclaiming Judas as the hero of the story! Yes, Judas, the one whom I had portrayed as the satanically motivated enemy of truth and goodness....I saw now that the Sari were not only cruel, but honored cruelty. Their highest pleasure depended upon the misery and despair of others.......treachery was idealized as a virtue, a goal of life....Judas was a super-Sawi! And Christ the object of Judas' treachery meant nothing
Most of all, you must be prepared, in the strength of the Lord, to do battle with the prince of darkness, who, having held these many tribes captive these many thousands of years, is not about to give them up without a fight!"The author answered the call taking his family to live and work in primitive conditions with this basic premise in mind:"The world just isn't big enough anymore for anyone to be left alone.
The crucial question was; would the Sawi culture and the Scriptures prove so opposite in their basic premises as to render this two way loyalty impossible?
Most books about missionaries that I've read start with the missionary: his call, his preparation, his arrival among people with an unfamiliar culture and language, his painstaking efforts.In "Peace Child," as in "Lords of the Earth," Don Richardson starts with the people the missionary is trying to reach, in this case the Sawi people of what then was Netherlands New Guinea (now Papua Indonesia; Irian Jaya in the interim).
(They also are a people who celebrate treachery, but the Richardsons don't realize this at first.) We also sense the terror the Sawi must feel the first time they meet 20th century technology with its high speeds and throbbing noises in the person of these strange, seemingly immortal, pale gods.
Even if treachery is a culture's highest ideal, the Creator has planted within that culture a "key" to "unlock" such seemingly "closed" minds to at least consider the fact that the Creator actually may have visited this planet.
We just have to find that "key" within each culture, so that people will at least listen and consider the "story" of Jesus.
I had no time in my schedule for him, who was a mere "visiting missionary" during "Missions Week" at Dallas Theological Seminary, and had asked him if he would just tell me a good story that I could use for my collection of required sermon illustrations.
For about 30 minutes he kept us "spellbound", telling us the story of this book.
The first 50 pages are shown through the tribes POV, so it is a little dark and evil at the beginning, revealing those without Christ do not have hope.
Everything with the Peace Child was so amazing.
Once Don Richardson was able to reveal Christ to them through their traditional idea of the Peace Child, salvation began among the people.Some parts of the book are a little disconcerting, especially with the tribes traditional beliefs.
The description of cannibalism isn't very nice to read.
I would not recommend for under 16/17 of age because of that.I'm looking forward to reading Don Richardson's other book.
One of the major genres in my home growing up was missionary and martyr stories. This was one I read multiple times as a child, I loved the completely different culture. I'm pretty sure it is what stayed in the back of my mind in my undergrad years that led me to doing a research paper on the music if the Kaluli people of Papua New Guinea,
I think he tends to overdo the storytelling a bit, but the main point does come through very clearly: A missionary can never present the Gospel effectively if he doesn't take the time to understand the culture of the people.
Richardson was only able to connect the message with the people after he understood the "peace child" concept built into their culture.
Richardson touts the value of finding a "redemptive analogy" like the peace child to aid the preaching of the Gospel in a foreign culture, but books like this should probably always be labeled the same way diet plans are labeled: "Results may vary."
Eventually, the missionary discovers still more metaphors in Sawi culture that he can use to communicate the gospel, and I was again reminded that the transformative power of Christianity is housed in the vehicle not of law, but of story.
And again I am reminded of why I was drawn by liturgy and found myself moving from the starker rituals of evangelical Protestantism to the rich, inspiring story-telling of the liturgical Christian world.This metaphor of the peace child, though it comes from a culture very different from my own, nonetheless helped me to again see the gospel afresh.
I can't think of a missions story I like better. I read it maybe a quarter century ago, and was grateful to revisit it now. Our Peace Child, the Word of God, the Story and the Storyteller, never changes, yet He is always new and surprising with every new audience, whether an individual or a culture. And always exceedingly lovely and glorious. And in this instance, most affecting.Reader seemed well-suited to the book.
What an amazing story! I started this book years ago but couldn't get past the first section - it was SO violent, shocking and sad. Picked it up again and pushed through and was greatly rewarded. I stand in awe of our amazing God. He's a loving genius who is unbelievably huge and creative. I'm so thankful that I will share Heaven with the Sawi someday!
This was a very interesting story about a missionary bringing the gospel to the Sawi people of New Guinea.
I also enjoyed getting to hear this book from Don Richardson's point of view as he shares how he tried to help the people through the strength of God to overcome their superstitious beliefs.
I liked how real this author was as he shared the joys AND disappointments--the times where he was seriously questioning why God had sent him to the Sawi people if he was going to fail in being able to make them understand the gospel.
Great story that demonstrates Gods creativity in creating diverse cultures; his self-disclosure and unique pursuit of this remote tribe in Papua New Guinea. The missionary in this book lived with the tribe, learned their worldview and discovered the key to explaining the gospel in a culturally relevant way.
I read this book a long time ago, perhaps not long after it came out. At the time I was very impressed with the way it beautifully conveyed how every culture has myths/legends/traditions that point to the story of redemption, restoration, and healing. Though I have since read or heard other similar stories, I still consider this book to be a valuable read.
Wow.
And although my first impression was less than great, I’ve come to appreciate the deeper meanings in the story.Don Richardson and his wife Carol faced some truly difficult situations as they tried to find a way to share the truth of God’s word with the Sawi people.
Being headhunters and cannibals, the Sawi weren’t necessarily people you messed with too much—but Don and Carol had a love for them that transcended fear and gave them hope that things could change eventually.
Their lives were changed for the better, and that is incredible to me!The thing I love about stories like this is how it’s applicable in some ways no matter where you are.
Before they could minister to these barbaric people, they first had to learn their language and customs.
The Sawi language turned out to be highly sophisticated and proved most difficult to learn and then commit to writing.
Bored with common, everyday murder, the Sawi and neighboring tribes like to "fatten with friendship for the slaughter" those whom they would kill and eat once the victim's trust was gained.The Sawi, however, had a custom to signify complete trust that they would not dishonor - the "Peace Child." Each tribe would surrender a baby of its own and give it to the other tribe.
This was a wonderful missionary story, telling of the transformation of barbaric cultures into an unlikely culture with a Christian worldview. Richardson writes well, including action and even cliff-hangers at the ends of several chapters. Here is a post on missionary work and the transformation of culture, and here's a related one on redemptive analogies, appropriation, and supplanting. Here's an update on the Sawi people.
The argument goes like this(though it is told in a narrative story) in each culture God places keys, redemptive analogies, to aid in the communication of the Gospel. Analogies which are made evident are then appropriated by the missionary. For example Paul in Athens appropriated the unknown god to proclaim the true God.In the Sawi people the Peace Child was a redemptive analogie Don and his wife used to communicate Christ. Hearts which admired Juda's betrayal more then Jesus' sacrifice were transformed.A balance between redemptive analogies and chronological teaching is a wise middle.
Excellent read. The cultural aspects challenged me intellectually and expanded my worldview. I was also deeply moved by Richardson's example of incarnational missions. Lastly, the book was spiritually encouraging: I felt that God was truly glorified by this testimony to His sovereign grace among the Sawi people. My only critique would be that the story felt somewhat sensationalized at times, and lacked expression of realistic time passage and character development overall. However, I would highly recommend this read as a cultural, intellectual, and spiritual challenge.
I read this book last year. I am fascinated in the lives of missionaries and in other cultures, but I'm usually put off by the often weak writing that is put out by Christian publishers. I remember reading this book though and finding it quite poetic in places and well written. The choices and the faith that brought this man and his family to live in such a remote area were inspiring to read about. I would like to read this one again.
This missionary novel was different than other ones I've read of its kind. I really liked this book! I liked how it was written in almost a story form and it definitely kept my attention. I definitely recommend it!
this is my favorite missionary book. i love the idea that every culture has some story of redemption thus showing the human need not only for relationship with something greater but also for some kind of redemption.
Caleb and I read this together for school and it was really intersting. The traditions of the people were disgusting, however.A great book for every Christian because it is one example of how to tell the Gospel of Jesus to a different people who have a different culture.
God is amazing, and what the Richardson did was amazing. They risked their lives, and of course it's amazing and inspiring to see what God does for them and the Sawi. I don't particularly like the way the book's written, but the actual incidents and events are amazing.
Definitely interesting. I was amused at someone else pointing out how many exclamation points there are. I hadn't really noticed. Yes. There are lots of them. The story itself is amazing Worth the time to read it.
Fascinating and inspiring story.
Excellent reading choice and a good example of how a sovereign God is able to put traces of the truths of His gospel in any culture, even in one untouched by civilization!
I like this book so much I've developed a sort of book trailer for it... ask me to do the trailer for you in person!
this is a phenominal true story. i love how this couple really takes the gospel to the culture and doesnt just try to change the culture.
I LOVE this book! I encourage any adult Christian to read this book. Not only is it well-written, but the redemptive analogies employed by the author-missionary to reach the Sawi people of New Guinea are simply amazing, repeatedly bringing me to tears. I would also encourage any reader to keep these verses in the back of his mind while reading: “Because Jesus lives forever, He has a permanent priesthood. Therefore He is able to save completely those who come to God through Him, because He always lives to intercede for them.”Hebrews 7:24-25May God bless your reading, and His Church worldwide.
This was an excellent book! It was well written and definitely worth reading!The first couple chapters were a bit graphic in the descriptions of cannibalism, but that makes the reader realize just how desperate these people truly were for the Truth. I would recommend this book very highly for about age 14+ (depending on maturity).
