https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162089.Flawless
Meanwhile Aria and her brother panic childishly about the idea that their parents might get a divorce and inconvenience them, Spencer’s pathetically petty parents drive her into the arms of creepy Wren and his “sexy British accent”  (not sure which British accent this is, but since he went to Oxford I’m going to guess at “constipated posh”) and she has sex with him to a soundtrack of children’s cartoons, Emily fails to quit her swimming team, which is obviously enthralling, and Shepard continues to misuse the term “ironic” and its derivatives.
"An eye for an eye and the whole world goes blind."-GandhiThe second book to the Pretty Little Liars series, Flawless, we're back and we're following the lives of the four reunited friends - Emily, Aria, Hanna and Spencer.
Emily can't deny the sparks that fly between them and the way Maya makes her feel but is too scared to travel down the lesbian road because of what her friends and family might think or say about her.
Newly single, getting caught stealing, a DUI and just when she thinks she might be getting her father back in her life, her ugly (on the inside) step-sister makes sure that it's never going to happen with her manipulative ways.
I also have to admit I'm liking the TV series a little more and it kills me to say that because I'm sure TV will one day eat my brain (if it hasn't already).I just couldn't ignore some of my complaints about the series this time around.
But I'm not liking the girls as much.
It just annoys me when Shepard goes into insignificant detail about clothing, throwing out brand names left and right.
I do not know the difference between Gucci and Prada and Marc Jacobs, and I have no idea what Chanel Number 5 smells like.
It's also hard for me to believe what these girls supposedly did in 7th grade.
You are probably thinking - what are you doing giving this book 4 stars, when you've been giving 3 stars to way better books left and right.
Let me explain: - As I've admitted earlier - this is my guilty pleasure read.
- Yes, the writing is bad (although it has improved greatly from the 1st book).- Yes, the dialog is patchy and undeveloped at times.
I started reading these series because I was nostalgic for some PPL, but didn't want to rewatch the whole show.
The book two is totally different from the show and I am very interested which way it goes.My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
Flawless by Sara ShepardThere's really not much I can say about this book, having already seen the TV-Show, nothing was a big surprise, but I still really enjoyed it because I just love Sara Shepard's writing!In this book we had the big 'Foxy' benefit dance, which was kind of like homecoming (I think it was homecoming, anyway) in the TV-Show.I can't wait to see what happens in the next books, and I'm really hoping for a lot more character development, and a larger development between the 4 girls and their friendship with one another.
It was OK. The girls are so nasty but somehow, I still want to find out what's going on in Rosewood. On to the next book!
1 star. I don't think I'll be continuing this series. Review to come.
Wow, this book was so good! It was so addicting, I read it in 2 days which was fast for me. I need the next book. Stay tuned for reviews coming soon :)
While the show took the basic premise and made it good, it's clear why this series never really took off until after the show came out.None of the characters have a single redeeming quality to them.
Yes, they come off as having multiple layers but in the end they are just as shallow as any real life pretty girl.
None of these girls talk to each other, they seemingly hate each other and there seems to be no real reason.
I'm really gutted by how disappointing this book was for me; especially considering how amazing I thought the TV series adaptation is.
The fact that the book also frequently focused on the high-society vibe also weakened the mystery and thrill of A and his/her threats, which makes the story rather lacking, since those aspects were the only things that separated this plot from countless others in YA fiction.
I thought the general plot and idea of the story is ingenuously amazing and brilliant, but the poor prose took so much away from that.
What was that ending????I'm so confused.Ok so book two.
While the four girls still aren't what you would call friends, they are finding themselves thrown back together as they try to figure out just who A is.I will say, all of these girls are kind of horrible and self-centered.
It's just horrible.
We get to learn more about each girl here and just what secrets they were keeping with Ali. I am liking getting to know them, even if I don't really like them (does that make sense lol).
(hide spoiler)]Aria and Spencer are so far my faves.
I feel bad for Aria and I like Spencer's adult attitude (even though she makes stupid ass mistakes).
An eye for an eye and the whole world goes blind.Remember I said I liked Toby? I don't anymore, actually. He was sweet and cute but I now know what he did and... No.When I think of Aria, Emily Spencer and Hanna I see 4 train wrecks. They are all derailing so fast it's making my head spin.Bring on the next one!
loving this series so far!
017)(view spoiler)[ no answer  (hide spoiler)]What does Spencer know about Alison that the other girls don’t?
004)(view spoiler)[The Jenna Thing (Pretty Little Liars, pg.
(Pretty Little Liars, 145)(view spoiler)[ Toby molested Jenna, his step sister.
(view spoiler)[Alison DiLaurentis: They found her body (Pretty Little Liars, pg.
Pretty Little Liars: Book 01Alison DiLaurentis?:(view spoiler)[Throughout the whole first book, the girls all think that Ali is back and is playing a game with them.
Aria, Spencer and Hanna think that Toby is A because he is at Foxy and knows about the Jenna thing (Flawless, pg.
It has the same thing the other book does- the four girls: Spencer, Aria, Emily, and Hannah are still getting threatening messages from an unknown sending who always signs the threats "-A." They are trying desperately to figure out who this mysterious person is but there are no clues that could help them.
Emily tried to once, but A let out one of her deepest secrets and after that, the girls kept quite.
Ali knew all of the girls deepest and darkest secrets.
Whoever "A" is, seems to know all of the girls secrets too, all the ones they told Ali.The book ends when the girls think they know who the real "A" is.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; MysteryLove Triangle/Insta Love?: Nope.Cliff Hanger: Nope.Rating: 4 StarsScore SheetCover: 6/10 (I don't really like the tv covers)Plot: 6/10Characters: 8/10World Building: 5/10Flow: 8/10Series Congruity: 10/10Total: 7/10In DepthBest Part: Melissa screwing over Spencer, neither deserve Wren.Worst Part: (view spoiler)[Toby killing himself, i don't see why he did that, so it felt like a stretch to me (hide spoiler)]Overall Feels: This 2nd book flowed so well from book 1, which is always a good thing.
I love how even the minor character's like Mona and Kate are getting in on the screwing over action!ConculsionContiuing the Series: yes!Recommending: yes!
Are you kidding me? I'm so mad at myself everytime this happens with Shepard's books. This is yet another book that ends in the middlr and, guess what? It was no where near as good as book #1. I could leave right now and be happy (which, if we are being honest, is mostly because I read book #0.5 which I'm fairly certain gave everything away..)
Flawless (Pretty Little Liars, #2), Sara Shepard
And Emily is more confused than ever about who she is when she meets a really hot guy...Toby, the stepbrother of Jenna.After the intriguing and deliciously juicy "Pretty Little Liars" (and knowing I would need a light read for flying), I had to pick up Book 2.
Sean got more interesting through his conversations with Aria, and I really admire Shepard for making Meredith a character and not just "the bad guy".
How did Aria and Sean get inside and go back to making out so quickly after the text?
Spencer, Aria, Emily and Hannah hadn't talked ever since their best friend, Alison DiLaurentis, went missing in seventh grade.
Emily was known as the good girl but that all changed after a new girl moved into Alison's old house.
After all of that went down she tries to prove that he really does want her back, and when she gets out of hand her mother calls her dad in.
I would recommend this book to girls in middle school.
More specifically I would recommend this book to girls who love gossip and lies because I believe they will not be let down after reading this book.
M-a făcut să cumpăr următorul volum spiritul de colecție și opiniile unor englezi, care spuneau că acțiunea din carte e mult mai complicată decât cea din serialul TV.
Să nu uităm nici de faptul că în serial, Emily e singură la părinți, iar în carte ne întâlnim des cu sora ei mai mare.
În plus de asta, din Impecabil aflăm că, de fapt, Toby o abuza pe sora lui și nu invers, cum ne prezintă serialul.
În plus, în carte, Jenna pare să le fi iertat pentru glumele din trecut pe cele patru prietene.
I found myself not wanting to read at night because I got so paranoid!
A is becoming more vengeful and more into blackmailing them, their worlds are crumbling beneath them.I think if I could only read one series for the rest of my life, this would be one of the top contenders.
It takes you on a ride that has so many twists and turns that you start to think crazy thoughts about who A might be.
I am both annoyed and happy I haven't figured it out yet!This series is absolutely wonderful!
So far I'm really liking this series!It's so easy-written and fast paced, enjoyable to read. Because I watch and love the TV show as well I love getting more insight in some things, getting more details etc...
Dit deel vond ik beter geschreven dan deel 1. Minder kinderachtig en spannender
Can't wait to read the 3rd book!
Yeah I get that more stuff gets uncovered, but it's such a long series, and I reckon (view spoiler)[they'll never find out who A is until the end..
(hide spoiler)] Surprised that (view spoiler)[Toby died though!
(hide spoiler)] I really know know what's happening.
The way all of the characters are intertwined is confusing me.
So much stuff gets revealed each book, I forget what's happened to who and who's related to who.
If I don't read them all quickly I'll forget.
I get characters mixed up, and there's too many of them.
Just hope I read them all quickly.
3,5Lo que más disfruto de esta historia es la diversidad de sus personajes y la actualidad de las situaciones y problemas socio/culturales que presenta. Estos libros han sido publicados hace más de una década pero se sienten totalmente contemporáneos.
Nyt alkaa jo tulla eroja sarjaan nähden.
Außerdem wurde mir gesagt, dass sich die Bücher ab dem zweiten Teil dann von der Serie unterscheiden und ich war gespannt, was mich erwartet.
Die vier Mädchen Aria, Hannah, Spencer und Emily finden wieder zusammen, da sie mysteriöse Nachrichten von A bekommen.
A kennt die schlimmsten Geheimnisse von jeder einzelnen und zwingt sie damit, bestimmte Dinge zu tun, damit ihr Geheimnis nicht verraten wird.
Wenn das allerdings stimmt, was am Ende passiert ist, dann entfernen sich die Bücher tatsächlich sehr von der Serie.
Ich bin gespannt, wie es im dritten Buch weitergeht, denn von nun an scheint sich die Handlung ein bisschen von der der Serie zu unterscheiden.
This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic Nerd MY THOUGHTS I don't have extremely high feelings towards this series so far, but I did like this book and think it was a great sequel.Spencer, Aria, Emily, and Hanna all have their own secrets that are spiraling out of control. What's worse it that a person called 'A' keeps sending them messages and threats to unleash their secrets. Some secrets that only Alison, their best friend that went missing years ago. And her body has just been fo
I don't have extremely high feelings towards this series so far, but I did like this book and think it was a great sequel.Spencer, Aria, Emily, and Hanna all have their own secrets that are spiraling out of control.
All four of the girls have to deal with their own drama-filled lives along with trying to figure out who 'A' really is and they are getting very suspicious...First off, I read this as an audiobook and I would just like to complain how the narrator for the audiobook had a very young voice.
Granted, I was able to do this with the last book, but in audiobooks all the characters are usually voiced by the same person.
