https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60935.Possessing_the_Secret_of_Joy
FGM is compared to foot-binding in China, another patriarchal practice that was used to control women.In Lisa See’s book Snow Flower and the Secret Fan, the sister of the main character dies due to a bungled foot-binding procedure.
This book is very Jungian in its approach, Jung even makes several appearances as Mzee (Swahili honorific for an elderly man), Tashi's first psychotherapist.The most horrifying thing about this book is that FGM is still practiced in many countries.
However, this book makes a statement; Alice Walker gives a voice to the women who have experienced FGM and have no voice.
The book kicks off a quote about Tashi from “The Color Purple”, who as a young immigrant in America chose to have her face scarred by Olinki tradition “to make her people feel better” and to seek the female initiation ceremony as well:Tashi was happy that the initiation ceremony isn’t done in Europe or America … That makes it even more valuable to her.It is the same Tashi who leads us back to her family remaining in Africa, long after the political chaos that drove her mother to take her to California as a young girl.
I picked it up two nights ago and WOW...The subject of genital mutilation has been dormant in conversations in my world lately, and I welcome the opportunity to be awakened to important concerns in the world today as I've been sidetracked with issues of little relevance to anyone...I had a professor that claims she was a princess of Yoruba.
She opened the discussion of female circumcision, cringing every time it was called "genital mutilation" by us naive westerners.
I wondered for just a minute if I were really just a stupid judgmental American (probably) that had no valid concern for the women in Africa and elsewhere who endure this brutality--after all, this was an actual African princess with whom I was arguing.
Read years ago, but still remember this powerful read. Walkers description of female genital mutilation is so disturbing, it is indelibly imprinted in my mind.
Back in the early Nineties, there was a story in our local newspaper about female circumcision that was published because of the release of Possessing the Secret of Joy by Alice Walker.
(I don't know what possessed me to think of it today.) With Possessing the Secret of Joy, Walker proves that fiction can often make a point more powerfully than non-fiction.
To be honest, the only reason this book gets 4 stars instead of five is because of a stupid scene with a French woman giving birth who has an orgasm when the baby comes out.
That scene almost made me throw the book through the window.
i am, doubtless, doing a grave injustice to this book, which will be probably rectified the moment i read reviews and secondary material on it.
but then there's a whole lot of anthropology thrown in, and some etymology, and some sort of grand historical theory of patriarchy and the submission of women, and when you scratch the surface a tiny little bit you realize that it's made up.
i didn't scratch the whole surface, so it's entirely possible that some of it -- the core of it?
genital mutilation must stop.
This is my second reading of this book.
The first was nearly 20 years ago and all I really recalled was thinking I should hold on to the book because I would read it again.Since I am a very different person now that when I was in my early twenties - I experienced this book very differently.
And 20 years ago, researching the topic was not easy.
Opening line - 'I did not realise for a long time that I was dead.'#PossessingTheSecretOfJoy * "My wife is hurt, I say.
Not mad.
Evelyn laughs.
The laugh is short.
Beyond hurt.
Unquestionably mad.
Oddly free." *Driven by emotion rather than intellect Tashi (Evelyn) undergoes female circumcision in her teen years.
Despite the subject matter, this is surprisingly easy to read yet raw at times.
The procedure, amongst other things, drive Tashi to insanity.
The entire novel is narrated by the characters with each chapter titled under them.
The novel also jumps back and forth in time providing an added dimension.
Oh, I say. These settler cannibals. Why don't they just steal our land, mine our gold, chop down our forests, pollute our rivers, enslave us to work on their farms, fuck us, devour our flesh and leave us alone? Why must they also write about how much joy we possess? I can't wait to read something like this that was written in reaction to Black Lamb and Grey Falcon. If I had to take a drink every time another treacle-tart infantalization brought upon by the complete refusal to both learn a new l
If that seems like too much, take the stance of Walker's book: highly specific in scope, inherently balanced in humanization, and actively working against every kind of attempt to transform a human being into a metaphor.
I don't know why I like reading about black people in places other than the US, but I do.
I have a 10k strong population to throw at people for that latter situation.Walker's one of a number of WOC authors for whom I have one book read and at least one more waiting in the wings.
This was the toughest book for me to finish.
It was recommended to me by several friends whose judgment in books reflected mine, but I kept putting it off.
The novel's subject, female genital mutilation, cannot be sugar-coated, nor should it be.
Alice Walker does a unbelievable job of kicking your apathetic butt into gear.
You will be angry, unbelievably angry.
I am not an emotional reader, leaving teardrop stained pages, but I dare you to be unmoved by this story--whether you are male, female, black, brown, white, asian or latina.

I read this book close to its first publication date.
I will reveal my total ignorance here--I did not realize that the subject of this book was 'real', as in actually happening, until I was more than halfway thru the book.
That realization was quite a shock!
In my defense, probably 98 percent of the US population at the time had never heard of female circumcision (as it was then called).In light of that, perhaps one star of my rating might be attributed to the torrent of emotion released within me at this tragic revelation.
But I challenge any clear-thinking human to read this book and not be profoundly moved.
There are very few authors who affect me as deeply as Alice Walker does.And FGM infuriates me more than any other misogynistic cultural practice.
If a culture (including religions) perpetuates the subordination of females, it is simply abominable.
Males must develop ways of germinating (*haha*) self-worth beyond the ones that base status on one's ability to possess and dominate females (and other males).Alice Walker's linguistic gifts are stunningly beautiful, but I also like the wisdom that I find in her work.
/ Some people fault him for claiming to die for them...a kind of insanity that...the pampered oppressed always feel(LOVE that concept of the pampered oppressed!)...his eyes gone grave with love and incomprehension(Tashi's son when she was abusive to him.
I picked up this book in 2015 because I liked Tashi's character in The Color Purple and wanted to read more about her.
And of course, the prevailing theme of Possessing the Secret of Joy is the extremely unpleasant female genital mutilation; while I appreciate the importance of the topic, that doesn't mean I want to read about the process in detail.Here's a relatively mild example: Tashi is convinced that the little girls who are dying, and the women too, are infected by the unwashed, unsterilized sharp stones, tin tops, bits of glass, rusty razors and grungy knives used by the tsunga.
"Una parte de los derechos de autor de este libro se empleará para educar a mujeres y niñas, hombres y niños, sobre los graves efectos de la mutilación genital, no sólo en la salud y la felicidad de los individuos, sino en toda la sociedad que la practica, y en el mundo entero".
I started this book before years ago and couldn't finish. Finished because this was a bookclub section and I thought it jumped from too many POVs and time periods.
There's no question that a practice that mutilates women with the goal of making them look like Barbie dolls--i.e., with a flat, featureless landscape instead of actual genitalia--is inhumane and nothing that should be condoned as "tradition." The problem, however, with Possessing the Secret Joy, a novel about Tashi, a woman who has suffered this brutal practice and continues to struggle with the physical and emotional scars for many decades after, is that the narrative structure is messy and lacks the emotional power I expected.The story is told in alternating POVs (one per chapter): Tashi, her husband Adam, their son Benny, Tashi's friend, Tashi's shrink, Adam's mistress (yes, his mistress), and Adam's son with the mistress.
In 1991 Alice Walker first published the novel, Possessing the Secret of Joy. It introduced many readers to the ruthless, painful technique known as female genital mutilation (FMG) or female circumcision, suffered by 90 to 100 million women worldwide.
But fortunately for modern readers and current sufferers everywhere, Ms. Walker and others began to report even more thoroughly on the noxious anti-feminism and unusual folklore supporting the practice.
Thank goodness other books and conferences began popping up, and the horrors (both physical and psychological) and the treatments of the practice have been further revealed.I highly recommend this novel not only for its information but also for its startling truth and dramatic storytelling.
The book details the life of an African girl, Tashi, from her youth through marriage - she meets the son and a daughter of missionaries and becomes friends with them - although still seeking acceptance from her village.
We see the wonderful youthful girl enjoying a crush and feeling the splendor of sex in the grass - yet - we learn that women in that village practice genital circumcision on every young girl.
The book chronicles the history and the belief that women are unclean and that myths and practices destroy the person within.
Tashi represents the "every woman" who takes a stand for women's rights, but only after she chooses to undergo circumcision as a young woman.
They are made to feel dirty and unclean if they are "not bathed." We must educate ourselves and then educate those around us to continue to fight for women's rights -- not just for equality, but to end violence against women.
Anyway, definitely read Possessing the Secret of Joy. It's definitely one of those "profoundly moving books."(P.S. Claudia -- you definitely need to borrow this!
Alice Walker not only opens your eyes to the reality and the presence of it within societies all over the world, but she also attempts to communicate the endless suffering and madness caused by this horrifying 'tradition'.I feel like I can't quite eloquently put into words the way the book made me feel and what it made me think.
I believe this is one of the first true trauma narratives I have read, at least it is the first to have truly impacted me.This book is so important, because it forces you to face something which is so hidden in society and because it touches you and moves you through the beautiful language and very human characters.
Very disjointed, character-driven story telling in which the plot itself is a mystery that is slowly revealed by numerous, inter-related characters at various points in time. When the puzzle finally comes together, it still feels like pieces are missing. Connections between female circumcision in Africa, sexism, political oppression, and AIDS are powerfully argued, but the motivation behind characters' actions are often obscure.
I was deeply disappointed in Alice Walker when she wrote this book. Her motives, I think, were genuine but her method was problematic for me. Her commentary on a very complicated issue is very limited, not to mention, biased. It's another post-modern tragedy. A third-wave feminist critique gone wrong. I love you Alice, I just don't agree with how you went about this one...
the writing wasn't that bad but the pov changed a lot so that was really confusing.I don't like books about slaves so that's one of the big reasons i don't like it.
I must read more books by this woman.And every conscientious person that is concerned about cruelty to women should be aware of the issues written about in this book.
Possessing the Secret of Joy is a powerful read, written in Alice Walker's usual evocative style.
Tashi, who has appeared in the peripheries of Ms.Walker's other novels, takes the centre in this book.Through Tashi, Ms.Walker not only creates a condemnation of FGM, but also leaves the reader with insights into how it plays into a victim's psyche and life.
While we learn of Tashi's life and how a misguided loyalty to her tradition makes her voluntarily submit to FGM, we also learn of how that moment comes to be.
There are several moments of Tashi's account that horrify the reader.
wow what a thoughtwrenching/ heart breaking story of Tashi. Although the tribe is fictional Walker uses this place as a combination of Africa. Female Circumcision is a horrible practice which still occurs physically in many parts of the world.
i'm not sure i did read this book, though i could see myself starting it and then putting it down.it is a good book but sad. female genital mutilation, as the author puts it, is not only harmful to the individual but to the whole society.
alice walker cut me to the core once again. please read this book
Instead you learn from it, feel pain and sorrow and outrage during reading it, and you come away viewing the human-made world differently (such as how the animal world suffers for our vaccines).On a personal note: A few years ago I went on a date with a young woman who spoke of herself and her friends as being new 'revolutionaries' during the Bush years.
At the end of the date she said to me, "At some point in life everyone should possess the secret of joy." I never spoke to nor saw her again after that one date and had wondered what she had meant...
