https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56465.The_Gift_of_Fear
Violence is seldom random - we almost always have warning signals long before the boyfriend refuses to be broken up with or the employee with the gun climbs the clock tower.I'll relate my own Gavin de Becker-esqe story here, by way of example.Several years ago I had a well-liked roommate who needed to break the lease and move to another city.
The most important book I've ever read.
"Tell them to find a woman who looks like a mommy and ask her for help." After all, how often is a policeman around?
Read this book.
Read this book.
Are you a woman?
Much of the time we're afraid to look foolish or rude by listening to that nagging feeling (leaving the overcrowded nightclub, walking away from the stranger who "just wants to help you with your groceries") but your intuition has been honed over hundreds of thousands of years of collective experience.
"This Holiday season, give THE GIFT OF FEAR."Anyway, a lot of this book is common sense, and the author describes "intuition" or your "gut feeling" as (deep voice) THE GIFT OF FEAR!
I was really let down by this book because, again, it's mostly just common sense.
There's nothing really new here.Another thing, for the most part this book posits that it's mostly men stalking, harassing, and being violent (mostly toward women).
It just didn't feel balanced to me, especially in a world where the statistics of female on male crime are greatly reduced for various societal reasons.
Really explaining The Gift of Fear in a way that does it justice will easily overwhelm the review space, but its main idea is that human intuition (or “gut feeling”) is more powerful and helpful than it gets credit for and absolutely can save one’s life.
De Becker strongly opposes how some movies and t.v. shows depict romantic relationships, particularly how men are portrayed pursuing women.* He also opposes how media report crime and portray criminals and explains why, after one kind of crime occurs, copycat crimes occur not long thereafter.
The cover text of all three described Kaczynski as a “genius.” Reporters usually refer to assassins with triple names, like Mark David Chapman, Lee Harvey Oswald, Arthur Richard Jackson.
Also, if the stalker calls you 20 times and you answer on the 21st ring, that is telling him, oh I have to call 21 times to get her to pick up the phone.The messengers of intuition are: nagging feelings, persistent thoughts, humor, wonder anxiety,curiosity, hunches, gut feelings, doubt, hesitation, suspicion, apprehensions, and Fear.
The new manager opened it anyway, but before he did, one man said let me get back to my office before the bomb goes off, he did leave and he survived, never dreaming that his instinct was telling him to run.
De Becker uses many examples of people who suspected something was wrong and then were proven right, but what about all the times that people suspected something was wrong and then nothing happened?
Furthermore, I do not share his confidence that people can just know by instinct when a situation is dangerous.
For example, I have an anxiety disorder.
I don't expect De Becker to have the cure for anxiety disorders, but I did expect more practical tips for identifying danger rather than just a constant refrain of "trust your instincts", since so many people seem to have poorly formed instincts for various reasons.
This book spent a bit of time talking about the epidemic of violence, which needs very little more illustration than to say that three out of every four American women will in their lifetimes be the victim of a violent assault, and a large portion of those assaults will be sexual.
We know women have been socialized to react in maladaptive and often dangerous ways to men, and yet we're supposed to rely purely on reflexive response in moments of great danger?
De Becker doesn't say, and actually given the nearly pathological lack of race discussions from this book about violence, I suspect he doesn't know.
On the first day of SFSI training for sex educators, we do an exercise called "I Don't Want To Talk About It." Trainees practice saying just that to a partner who inundates them with questions, from the mundane to the highly offensive.
Most of them are about anal sex.)It's hard for many trainees to set that boundary, and most women especially add qualifiers: "I don't want to talk about that right now." "I'm sorry, but I'm not comfortable talking about that.""I don't feel like talking about that."This book trained me out of those caveats by teaching me that I don't owe strangers anything: not my smile, not my appearance, not my reply on a dating website.
The book was making me feel scared and helpless, so I put it down for awhile.Then, months later, I picked it back up again, because I'd heard so many good things about it from so many people whose opinion on this sort of thing I trust, and because at least one person told me it helped them get away from a particularly poisonous harasser.
As it turns out, I had stopped reading right as it was getting good, and from then on I've barely been able to put it down.One thing I've heard from critics of the book is that the chapter on domestic violence is a bit victim-blaming, and I do have to say I agree.
All martial artists should read this.
Hopefully you already know that awareness is by far the most important aspect of self-defense.
The Gift of Fear by Gavin de Becker tells us how to tune into the body's natural awareness (a subconscious intuition for danger that is hard-wired into our psyche).
Basically he argues that our intuition is a far better judge than our logical mind when it comes to danger.
The Gift of Fear is a truly great piece of writing about self-protection, almost poetic in places, and especially good for women (though pretty vital to everyone).
Please read it.
Sometimes we need a book like this, because not everyone is as obvious as this guy...Oh sure, let me check in right now!This book isn't about what to do after a crime has started. Instead, it's about how to prevent these things from happening in the first place. It's about using your intuition, a natural response to things being, "off". It's an instinctive survival signal that we've had since the caveman days.   "Since fear is so central to our experience, understanding when it is a gift - and w
A lot of us don't want to appear rude to people.
Better safe than sorry.One of the most interesting things that I learned from this book has to do with restraining orders.
Did you know that if a woman gets a restraining order against an abusive husband/ex/boyfriend etc, he is more likely to kill her?
If you get a restraining order against a stalker, this feeds their need for attention.
Any contact with a stalker, or a similar person, will only cause more harm than good.
The gist of it is: Be aware of how you feel and don't discount your fear.
The thing I remember most vividly is a story about a woman who kept refusing a man's help carrying her groceries and finally relented when the man said, "There's such a thing as being too proud," which made her feel dumb, which prompted her to let him help her, and then he raped her or something.
And like those email forwards, it pisses me off that it seems like more attention is paid in the book to the overemphasized "problem" of random attackers seizing women as they return to their cars in the parking lot rather than the very real problem of women who are the victims of domestic violence.
Essential reading for anyone who wants to understand the undercurrent of violence in our society today. If you have a child going away to college give this book to them the summer before they leave...you will feel better.
What this book taught me: I should have listened to my intuition and not read it.
You really needed a 400 page book to tell you, "listen to your gut?"Give me $7.99 and I'll tell you to listen to your gut.The Gift of Fear is impossibly repetitive.
It is disorganized, badly edited, and mainly serves as a pedestal on which Gavin de Becker can place himself for the rest of us to admire.This is basically what the book looks like:Listen to your gut.
Here is how Gavin de Becker and his crack team of intuition geniuses saved the day.
i recommend this book to women i know who care about personal safety, but also to people who are interested in the patterns of human behavior; its not just insight into what i consider 'bad behavior,' its a very interesting behavioral view into the world of women and their complicated interactions with men - and illustrates the problem of safety in a way that most men rarely think about.its not a perfect book, but it was enormously helpful in helping me to understand a lot of things about humans in our culture - myself and everyone else, both in light of some terrible events and just generally.
I preferred when de Becker gave real world examples and used them to teach instead of making up examples and speaking theoretically.
But the rest is him mansplaining domestic violence and blaming the victims, and, without exception, de Becker speaks of men as the abusers and women as the victims.
The first few chapters and the section on how to spot when someone is using charm as a way of gaining trust for malicious reasons were potentially useful, but the author's attitude toward domestic abuse was offensive and gendered, and the last third of the book had little to do with everyday life.
This book has some useful information, particularly for women, and I appreciate that Mr. de Becker gives the reader permission to trust her instincts while aiming to educate and fine-tune her intuition.
Yes, there are people who murder their parents and then set off cross-country to attempt to assassinate a famous person or two, but my chances of being tied up a situation like that are really very, very small.The first half of the book has some very useful specifics regarding methods criminals use to gauge how easy it would be to make you a victim and how to recognize and counteract those methods.
The book is worth reading for the first half to two-thirds which has valuable, applicable information.For more book reviews, visit my blog, Build Enough Bookshelves.
But, the officer tells them, if they apply for a restraining or stalking order, have it granted, and the creeper violates it, the officer can do something.
So, the woman applies for a restraining or stalking order, and whether or not she has it granted, continues the cycle of contacts with the creeper.De Becker says, and I totally agree, that this is helpful in some cases, but not all.
She said, “Yeah, but the police are terrible at responding.” “Do you think they are better at responding if you have a restraining order?” I asked.Even though my question did not put her at ease, hers was a case in which she continued to maintain contact with her alleged assaulter through the justice system.
So often, information about avoiding danger that is given to people, particularly women, is unhelpful, dangerous, sexist, and/or serves only to feed into paranoia.De Becker, in contrast, draws a strong distinction between the culture of fear that we live in (where TV news and email forwards cultivate fear of dangers that are unlikely to occur), and fear as an instinctive tool one can use to protect oneself.
These chapters are interesting from a human behavior standpoint, but are less readily applicable.Overall, I would recommend this to everyone, but particularly to women like me who sometimes have trouble balancing safety with the desire not to let anxiety rule their lives.
This book did change my life and years after reading it, there are many points that remain vivid in my memory and I actually recall them fairly regularly.
Although the grim reality of what women in particular face in the sense of being targets on a daily basis is made quite clear through the book and scared me, that wears off while the insights gained have changed my perspective on protecting myself.
Predators use women's perceived social obligation to be courteous against them.
He has served on President's Advisory Board at the U.S. Department of Justice and the Governor's Advisory Board at the California Department of Mental Health; he now runs a consulting firm which advises government agencies, universities, police departments, corporations, and media figures on the assessment of threats and hazards.He gives true examples in each section with people who either followed their gut instinct or didn't.
The book was never boring for me since I was reading true gripping stories, or skills that could save me.There are sections on avoiding workplace violence (like people who come kill after being fired), how to deal with stalkers (truly different ideas than law enforcement will often preach), and how to recognize someone trying to manipulate you.
The caveat is that we must be open to, not dismissive of, its cues to benefit from it.A dear friend called me shortly after I'd finished reading this book.
To benefit from them up front, we must be willing both to hear those warning indicators and to respond as if we have really heard them.It's my bet you'll be willing to do both things after reading this book, which I recommend wholeheartedly to everyone, everywhere.
What makes both books so powerful and also uncomfortable to read is that Gavin de Becker and Lundy Bancroft explain that it isn't true at all: that many people who assault others aren't mentally ill at all, and that everyone is ultimately motivated by the same simple things, like wanting to feel in control of your own life and wanting to avoid ridicule by others.
In each chapter, De Becker gives examples of common predictors of certain types of violence, and breaks down a few myths about how to deal with potentially violent predators.I should be clear—this book is focused almost entirely on verbal and psychological strategies.
but the information presented here can help you predict and avoid the situations where you might need to elbow and kick someone, which, to my mind, is the best form of self-defense you can practice.There's a great deal of really valuable information presented here, and it's presented very well.
One of the "bad" things is that the stranger struck up an unsolicted conversation with her, but then the author goes up to her and unsolictedly tells her that the other guy is a creep and to make sure not to go anywhere with him after the plane lands!Later in the book he spends some time raking the press/media over the coals for glamorizing crimials and violence, but he contributes to it himself by using the criminals' names (instead of victims') as shorthand (the equivalent of refering to it as "the Booth incident" instead of "Lincoln's assasination").
GdeB’s firm protects famous people, typically, those who are at risk of assassination or deal with more stalkers, threats, security problems, unwanted attention, etc., than the rest of us.
I am sure this book would be better if GdeB had done that.Something else troubling about the book is the way it handles mental illness.
GdeB lets us know repeatedly that almost all assassins are mentally ill.
No mention is made of the fact that mentally ill people are more likely to be on the receiving end of violence than dealing it.
I wish I could make all young women read this book.
Everyone should read it, but the parts about partner abuse and avoiding stalkers and pushy men and keeping yourself safe in relationships were so good.
I loved how he talks not just to women about keeping themselves safe, but also addresses the broader cultural messages we give to men to never give up and to not take no as a final answer.
No is a complete sentence, he says.
I loved his many examples of how our fear can guide us to spot people who will be violent.
Really great book.
It is unbelievable at how brilliant this book is.One of the things (but they're many) that really got to me was how Becker really put things in perspective.
We are the only species that will ignore our built in danger detector because we don't want to come across as "rude".
We were all raised to treat others with respect and not to come across as rude or uppity; though my experience is based on a upbringing in the south.
So here's my gift to you...If you read this review and never go get the book always remember this.
The book says it's scientifically proven that we non-sociopaths have a physical reaction around sociopaths that we try to ignore or explain away, especially if the sociopath seems "normal." Book walks the reader through our own animal instincts designed to protect us, giving examples of when our bodies say no (suddenly tense, sweating, urge to run) but our brains, in fear of looking dumb or rude, say yes (he looks like a nice guy, sure I'll hold the door of this secured building open for him since he says he's meeting a friend on the third floor...).
After the fifth or sixth person either recommended "The Gift of Fear" or mentioned reading it, I made sure to find it at the library."The Gift of Fear" is a tough read at times, due to discussion of violent crimes.
However, the subject -- learning to trust that true reaction of fear when in a situation or encountering someone that just doesn't seem right -- is one that more people should spend time thinking about.While De Becker emphasizes listening to the reaction of fear, he discourages worry, and helps the reader differentiate between the two.
De Becker also provides characteristics of violent individuals.
