https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530910.Tertium_Organum
That said, this book involves a lot of reasoning that would be difficult, if not impossible, to support factually.
Well grounded though, I can't wait to see how deep he can go......finally finished this work.
I will only say that if you are a "thinker", constantly searching for more in this world than what is offered at face value, this is a work that will stretch the boundaries of thought for even the most profound thinkers.
The most disturbing part of this all is that this work, and this path of thinking, has been left for dead.
He almost predicts this possibility in the book itself.
what i wouldn't give to have been a speck of dust in a room where Ouspensky and Gurdjieff were waxing on...
Russian Theosophy at it's best. Read It>
Very hard book to read and comperhend. I am not too sure if I ever understand this book, might finish it in couple of years!
But because man, for the most part seems currently incapable of this conscious evolution, he continues to experience this 4th dimension as time and is restricted therefore to seeing the infinite 4th dimensional space as 3-dimensional world slices.
Within the context of this limiting and false 3-dimensional world slices , Ouspensky points out that it is impossible to establish real cause-and-effect relationships.
He shows that because words, concepts, symbols and phenomena attempt first to partition and separate the reality of Oneness and real causes, they are incapable of apprehending it or serving as vehicles for teaching or expressing it.
Here you will find the mind of the 19th and 20th century philisopher/ Realizers like Ralph Waldo Emerson & Richard Bucke.
Peter D.
Ouspensky (March 4, 1878–October 2, 1947), (Pyotr Demianovich Ouspenskii)a Russian philosopher,who invoked euclidean and non-euclidean geometry in his discussions of psychology and higher dimensions of existence.
His first book, The Fourth Dimension, appeared in 1909; his second book, Tertium Organum, in 1912; and A New Model of the Universe in 1931.
This last work discusses the idea of esotericism.
He also wrote the novel Strange Life of Ivan Osokin, which explored the concept of recurrence or eternal return.
How many times will I allow a Russian Theosophist to break my heart?I followed his paces so faithfully! He measured his stride so! He spoke to me of his affairs with Kant and with Consciousness.Ultimately, he believes we are all imperfectly-understanding emanations of the Cosmic Conscious... or of the First Intelligence... call Him what you will. I still insist that he is the better of Edwin A Abbott (of Flatland acclaim).
this the real book and i will try to find original book over than 700 pages
Mind-blowing!Reality-altering!Mentally-stimulating!This book is all that and so much more.
The logical reasoning the author uses throughout this book is sound, and I cannot refute his arguments.
Mind you, he looks at them from a purely UN-positivistic point of view, so everything that modern positivistic science has taught you might be shattered before your very eyes.I remember reading somewhere, someone describing this book as: "The most important book ever written".
Now that might sound like a mighty overstatement, and it is certainly an overstatement.However, this is DEFINITELY one of the most important books ever written.
Brilliant, mind-bending piece about nature of the world and consciousness. It's a must read challenge for all of the materialist science-believers that have fallen into the one-dimensional limited way of thinking and observing the world through the matter only. Ouspensky is succesfully showing the flaws of the positivistic, exact, science and philosophy by offering another, deeper way of thinking outside of the box.

Great beginning, I liked the author clarity, his reasoning and the ways he leads the reader through complex geometry concepts. However, he lost me half-way when he introduced the snail and its one-dimensional vision. Maybe it is to be taken in the particular context of the turn of the 1900’s when spirituality was very present in the mind of most scientists involved in the development of exact sciences, but it makes it a little challenging to accept by today’s metrics.
Awesome book. Never knew that the beyond can be deduced from philosophy and logic, and that too in such a beautiful manner. And the application of maths was just wow. Ouspensky used analogies very nicely. This book introduced me in much details to the world of beyond world
Be very careful with this book. It will take you into a dangerous labyrinth that if you do not take precautions will trap you. He presents a grand problem, The Kantian Problem, but then takes a very wrong road to its resolution.
Excellent, Excellent book!It was the most exciting riveting and analytically challenging book I have ever read.....I get excited just remembering back when I did read it- even though I did get a headache., I loved it!!!Jonathan-
interpolates between the mystic and metaphysical to attain a constructive knowledge of the fourth dimension of creation. For you multidimensionalist, this might seem outdated, but it does contain the essentials of universal creation.
Una mirada diferente del universo y uno de sus misterios más insondables. El tiempo.
Another book I've had on my shelf for decades. Uses mathematics (Warning! high level math, in case you're numbers-challenged) to prove the existence of God!!
Came upon this treasure while reading a short story titled, "My Shoe" by a very witty and insatiable writer William Saroyan. Will provide a review upon completion of it.
Not as good as in search of the Miraculous, but interesting
This book opened my mind like a crowbar opening a locked lid. It took lots of pressure but the sudden snap as my mind finally opened has changed my view of life, the world and the universe.
I think this is the best book which analysed vedanta philosophy of shankaracharya through pure logic.
I loved this book. So many beautiful ideas, leaves you in wonder.
I started but have not picked it up in awhile so I will read it later.
Helped me think through multidimensional ideas. Otherwise this one's a relic.
