https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7147962-marnie
This was an excellent read. It is very dated, couldn't take place in the age of IT, she'd be outed on Facebook in no time. But as a story of its time featuring a young, female con-artist, an unusual heroine. If you are the sort of person who questions everything at every turn, don't read it, watch the film instead, but if you can suspend disbelief and just go with the story, then this is a good, light read.

The movie was somewhat controversial at the time for its relatively frank treatment of sexual problems and today if anything it divides audiences even more.The novel was very successful at the time.
It also has to be admitted that she enjoys stealing although again it’s as much the fulfillment of a psychological need as it is the excitement of the life she leads.Marnie believes she is happy.
In particular the Marnie-Mark relationship is different in several respects, the explanation of Marnie’s sexual problems is somewhat more complex and also different in important respects compared to the film, and the ending is quite different.
(Τραβάτε με κι ας κλαίω.) Φράσεις και πράξεις δηλαδή που αν προέρχονταν από κάποιον άντρα σήμερα πιθανότατα να ξυπνούσε με μερικές δεκάδες ασφαλιστικά μέτρα εις βάρος του.Όπως και να 'χει, το βιβλίο είναι καλύτερο από την ταινία του Χίτσκοκ, διότι σου εξηγεί βαθύτερα το ιστορικό της μοιραίας γυναίκας και από που προκύπτουν η καμιά εκατοστή περίεργες φοβίες που παρουσιάζει όπως για παράδειγμα ότι δεν μπορεί να βλέπει το κόκκινο χρώμα.
Από την άλλη, στην ταινία πρωταγωνιστεί ο Sean Connery στα νιάτα του που ειναι eye candy και καταπίνεις λιγάκι πιο εύκολα τις χοντράδες του ήρωα.
A surprisingly good read. I was familiar with the story from the 1964 Hitchcock movie but did not know that it was based on a book by Winston Graham (of the Poldark series). As usual, the book is better than the movie. Both are psychological thrillers, but Hitchcock focused on Marnie’s sexual repression and Graham on her self-discovery. And that secret Marnie’s mother has always hidden from her?--it’s different in the book and more shocking.
I didn’t read the book but saw Hitchcock’s adaptation of 1964. The movie was qualified as a “psychological thriller”.The story is arranged as to make the reader/viewer wonder about the central character: Marnie (played by Tippi Hedren) and understand her behavior. Marnie: a compulsive thief. She started robbing $10,000. A well-planned coup regarding her hair-color (then dark), no traces left, evasion, social security cards etc.  Marnie then visits her mother with an expensive gift for her; yet
Marnie tells mother they didn’t have a father; she says:”we don’t need men!”.Now she’s looking for a new job; she applies for an interview in a publishing house and despite not having references she gets the job as secretary.
Her boss Mark (played by Sean Connery) starts a relation with her; takes her to the horses races.He tries to understand Marnie’s fears of thunder,… and the red color.
Meanwhile Marnie managed to rob the editorial house; but Mark knows about it.
Mark will proceed in a sort of psychoanalyst/psychologist’s work trying to unravel Marnie’s past.
Maybe that will work.Mild story.
4 stars is outstanding and 5 stars is almost life-changing.Marnie is an enjoyable read (other than two racial slurs that were a shock and were part of old expressions that are now execrable).I loved the movie (and if you've seen the movie, you know how most of the book goes other than the ending which is somewhat different).Marnie is a compulsive thief.
The pleasure in the book is the voice of Marnie herself (it's told in first person pov--hers) and in the easy reading of it.Graham is the author of one of my favorite series--Poldark.
This book was a huge thing for me, since I knew it was the book my Grandmother read when she decided that my name should be Marnie.
The main character in Marnie is a full, live like character you can relate to and personally there were a lot of things she did and went through that was close to me and that made the book even more realistic to me.I don't think this is a book for everyone, but it does have a deeper meaning to it.
I will not forget this Marnie and her life story very soon,in fact I think it will stay with me a while.
But the psychological damage she suffered as a child, which has led her to a life of crime, among other things, is so far reaching and buried so deeply, not even Marnie herself is aware of them.The book was made into a film by Alfred Hitchcock in 1964, which remains controversial to this day on a couple of different levels: some think it’s a masterpiece, some a failure; and the film’s sexual politics feel suspicious to some modern viewers who are sensitive to the stereotypes of female hysteria in old school psychiatry.
And at the death of her mother, Marnie learns her mother's secret history and double life.Different from Hitchcock's version, Graham's version of the mother's crisis is not of Marnie's doing.
I thought, there's only one loneliness, and that's the loneliness of all the world."Just before the twisted ending, Marnie, feeling all 'emotional and female and hopeless,' wonders if she was in love with Mark.Marnie is the story of trauma, mental illness, crime, deception, and a man's sick obsession with a woman.It is little wonder that I have been disturbed by this story for about fifty years.
I didn't ask what he was in for.This is more or less how Marnie begins her life of crime, with a minor theft at the age of ten.
And that's when Marnie's uncomplicated, if criminal, existence comes to an end.I didn't know until I saw the credits that Alfred Hitchcock's film was based on this novel, or any novel for that matter.
The movie pushes Mark into the foreground; the book, narrated by Marnie herself, keeps him at a distance -- though not quite far enough away to suit Marnie.
As Graham drops one clue after another about the source of Marnie's derangement, we begin to sympathize with Mark, as well, or with his aim at least.
It followed a lot of the book faithfully, although the ending was completely different, as was her hidden trauma, and there lies some of the weakness of the story that dropped it to a four star rating over five.
Mark as a character is a shining gem- the patience and tragedy of the man was maybe more depressing to me than Marnie's mental struggles.The book is almost 400 pages, and you'd think a lot of shifting scenes may be needed to keep it interesting - but it doesn't need that for the pacing doesn't suffer.
Excellent story.
I had seen the movie, or parts of it previously, a couple of years ago and it wasn't my favourite Alfred Hitchcock movie.
But the book, with little anticipation, was excellent.
It's written in a very familiar, down-to-earth sort of style.
Marnie is matter-of-fact, a thief, with little feelings for those she steals from.
She has her reasons for her lifestyle, a story that comes out as the book progresses.
Her personality, while frustrating at times, develops nicely and is very interesting.
The story is very well-paced and develops so nicely, you just have to keep reading.
Most enjoyable story, surprisingly so.
Brilliant mystery.I couldn't put it down!Who is Marnie?Love Winston Graham who is a true master of his art.Loved it!
What an interesting and unusual book. I liked it a lot better than the movie (I can't imagine anyone's reading that book and thinking Sean Connery would be a perfect Mark Rutland. And I really don't understand why they added the character of his sister-in-law, Lil, and changed his mother to a father, but whatever.) This truly was a novel of suspense, as advertised, and the ending was one I didn't see coming at all. Overall, a remarkable book.
I was already a great fan of Winston Graham based solely on my enjoyment of his Poldark series (now re-released and which I highly recommend!
But it is definitely a psychological thriller in that you delve into the mind and motivations of a con artist and began to feel the suspense of waiting to get caught.
I really enjoyed the read, and made Jonas listen to an hour-long plot summary and analysis of the book.
Perhaps that is why I enjoyed the Poldark books so much.
I'm looking for more Graham to add to my reading list.
It is so good.Now I am a firm believer of first reading a book before watching a movie.
Why you might ask: Well when you first read the book you will make up in your mind how the characters look like, how they are and if you watch a movie first someone else is doing that for you.
When you then read the book you will see the pictures of the movie instead of your own which is a waste.
of your brain with its beautiful way of being able to fantasize.This is such an excellent book I can not highly recommend it enough to you guys.
Marnie the book is darker and more complex than Marnie the movie, and so is Marnie the character.
Hitchcock's depiction of the traumatized Marnie always seemed icky to me, and Sean Connery as her husband is the most loathsome Hitchcock character ever.
The basic premise is the same in the book as in movie: pretty con artist Marnie is caught stealing from her employer by a widower who has fallen in love with her.
Winston Graham's book, while dated, tells the story from Marnie's point of view, creating a more sympathetic character.
Bettie's Books
Marine is a well observed psychological thriller set just before the time of writing in the late 50s.
By now it has almost historical significance.One of the most interesting aspects is the deep understanding Winston Graham has of psychology, which cannot have been current at the time.
We gradually come to see how Marnie's childhood has made her into the unpleasant person of today.
His depiction of Marnie's initial resistance and eventually healing is utterly believable.
Graham had great kindness towards and understanding of humanity.
Marnie has always been my favorite Hitchcock film, and I thought why not read the book? It was almost nothing like the film.....her name was Marnie, his name was Mark Rutland, there was Strutt, and Forio........after that, it's all up in the Air! I loved it. Which is the better telling? They are both good stories, which ending did I like Better? I honestly can't say. I did really like the writing. And the human mind is certainly a roller coaster ride!
A Good book but it left me hanging at the end! There's so much I want to know! I guess the author want me to use my own imagination as to what happens at the end. For those who read the book, what do you think happen to Marnie?
I knew the movie way before the book. No surprise that the book is even more complex and captivating than Alfred did with the movie. I read it almost in one go.
I enjoyed this, I found it more believable than the film. No woman can freak out every time they see red! It also seems to me that Marnie has more legitimate reason to be messed up in the book. It's a 3.75 stars for me.
Marnie, is when she's either visiting her mother or her horse, Forio.So she carries on this pattern, moving between British cities and taking on new work.
He also makes a comment that women as pretty as Marnie and with such good figures aren't frigid.
There isn't a lot of respect for a woman saying no, and certainly Mark's cousin, Terry, never lets up with her.It's certainly an unsettling book somehow, and even when you feel that she's starting to make a break through and come to terms with herself, I'm not sure we even get to know her then.
But she's yet to meet handsome company director, Mark Rutland, whose pursuit of her will ultimately lead to her downfall.Winston Graham is probably best known for his "Poldark" series, but also wrote a number of taut thrillers, of which "Marnie" (written in 1961) may be the best remembered - having been filmed by Alfred Hitchcock in the early 1960s.
This new adaptation for radio returns to the heart of the book itself.One could not forget the famous of this film Hitchcook's version (1964) based on this book, with Tippi Hedren, Sean Connery and Diane Baker.
Surprisingly intelligent.
Surprisingly because intelligence is not a quality that one associates with the literary source of a Hitchcock film.
It might have been interesting to see Marnie filmed by someone like Chabrol or Duvivier or even a journeyman British director like J.
Lee Thompson, with the original bleak ending preserved.As for Marnie herself - whom Hitch called one of the most unusual heroines he'd ever encountered (and then proceeded to milk her for the usual melodramatic clichés) - she is not so unique: she could be a femme fatale from any American roman noir, or from something by James Hadley Chase; what's unusual is making her the narrator and delving into her past and her psychological make-up.
And then, of course, there is the ever-present British class aspect which adds an extra dimension.

SO much better than the movie! And I really like the movie, especially Sean Connery as Mark Rutland. The story is told from Marnie's point of view and it's chilling. Suspenseful, well-written and character-driven. No wonder Hitchcock made a movie out of it. He changed several things, but Marnie was obviously his type, the cool beautiful blonde with larceny in her heart. Loved it!
First published in 1961 but here is a book that will always be a fantastic read. Brilliantly written, first chapter felt a bit dated and then I couldn't put it down, well not willingly anyway. Marnie is a thief and a pathological liar. Whether it is nature or nurture or a bit of both, she is somewhat damaged. Highly recommend this book, Winston Graham is a master storyteller.
