https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30246.Blue_Moon
It wasn’t until I was about 15% into the book that I remembered all of the delicious things that were awaiting me I’m quoting a pretty large paragraph from the book, but it’s a great way to explain the relationship between Anita and her two men, Richard and Jean-Claude.Richard was an alpha werewolf.
I’d run from the werewolf to the vampire.
Jean-Claude was Master of the City of Saint Louis.
It’s only war if you start it, but if you start something, by God I will finish it.” Jean-Claude was motioning for the phone rather desperately.
Which unfortunately means her endings can be abrupt and read like an epilogue/after-thought.But she did get the book on track, and I did end up liking it (and even though there were parts that irritated me -- especially my inner-editor -- I was never NOT engaged), and though I am sure these bad habits will continue through the rest of the ridiculously long series, I will read it, fixing the defects in my mind as I go.Side note; for those of you who read the series and like your Anita lustful, this one certainly does not disappoint.
Anita also makes out with at least THREE guys with whom she is not in a relationship: Nathaniel, Asher, and Damien.+ Anita resorts to torture or coercion TWICE in order to obtain information (one of those times, she refuses to allow medical treatment until she finds out what she wants) and then justifies her actions and "becoming the monster".+ She never turns herself in for MURDER and TORTURE.Okay, so before she was b!tchy, trigger-happy and impulsive, but at least she didn't commit blatant crimes (murder, torture, etc.) and then come across as the Spotless Pure and Holy Mother of God (well, she does hem and haw about "becoming the monster").The books have already started to move away from the formula of the earlier entries--and not in a good way.
"Behave like Richard's mother and not his outraged girlfriend.""How dare you!" she said.
So, of course, his family calls Anita, his ex-girlfriend to drop everything and run to Tennessee to save his sorry ass.
of beer!So, when the Keystone Cops tell Anita and Richard that all they have to do is leave town in order to get the rape charge dropped, all they have to do is lie and say they will.
Even when one of the cops has Anita naked and is about to rape her, Richard refuses to just say the words that he will leave to make it stop.
Sex, violence, poor plot, irrational prudishness combined with irrational sexual behavior... Dont know what else to say really. Except wheres Larry? The most interesting supporting character has been lost somewhere. And wheres Animators Inc? Does she even have her job anymore (it is mentioned in the end in one sentence and thats it...). Oh and Anita is turning into very, VERY unlikeable. She isn't satisfied with ANYTHING! She gets everything she wants and whines about it. Total immature bitch. OH and are there any normal and likeable females in LKH's imaginary world? No.
I’m sure I thought it was “one of the best books ever” because I was still a fangirl and it features a whole hell of a lot of Richard and back then I was a fangirl of him too.
Jean Claude is barely a blip on the radar again during this book (I think he calls in once) because he is not allowed to travel to Master of the City vampire Colin’s territory, where Richard is being held, or all-out war will rage.
Blue Moon is narrated by Kimberly Alexis who does a great job voicing the tough as nails, increasingly coldish Anita.
First read: May 2006Re-read: July 2017The plot: Anita is called away from her home in St. Louis to a small town in Tennessee where Richard has been arrested on a rape charge. Anita is convinced he is innocent, and with the full moon coming, if Richard isn't freed from jail before then, his parents and his employers will learn he's a werewolf and he could lose everything.What I liked:- Blue Moon was a much more enjoyable re-read than I had been expecting. I despise Richard as a love interest and
I would love for Hamilton to write a proper guide to Anita’s world, putting all these details across all the books together into one comprehensive piece of work.-	 Loved the small town setting that took Anita out of her comfort zone.
The demonic appearance that followed was also suitably terrifying, but I did like that Anita’s faith still worked against the demon despite how much she has changed over the course of the series so far.
This has been set up here with the reference to Jean Claude being able to feed from sexual energy and it is my least favourite part of Anita’s new found magical abilities.-	I am not a fan of Damien; he is too pathetic and needy.
If this had been the first Anita Blake I had read, it would have been the last Anita Blake I had read.
There is a plot.
It is an interesting plot even.
The plot, however, takes a different car than the sex that gets pushed to the fore.
(Yes, I know the correct expresssion is "the plot took a back seat to the sex", but the plot is farther back than that).
I also think it is interesting that we are told she is going to be taught to use her newfound powers, but we never see it.
The first several novels in the Anita Blake series are great.
As you read each book, you can really see the character development as Anita becomes more sure of herself and more comfortable with the "monsters".
However, some the later books have deteriorated into little more than soft porn for women.
However, I feel it cheapens the series, which features a great role model in Anita as a women who has accepted that her life works the way it is and makes her happy, even it is not what the rest of the world thinks is normal.
LKH has spent a lot of time building up Anita’s moral landscape; it is one of the strongest segments of her developed character.
She came up with a scenario that got them together without betraying Anita’s morals and it all made sense in the context of this world.I also have to say that Richard sleeping around is almost as left field as Anita/JC.
I know LKH gives us apparent reasons; Richard being hurt over what happened with JC, and Anita running to JC because she couldn’t accept what she’d seen.
Anita tortures one of the baddies and saves the day, the end!What really bothers me here is the love triangle between Anita, Richard, and Jean-Claude.
After sleeping with Richard, Anita is given permission to continue to sleep with Jean-Claude.
Richard, understandably, says that he will continue to sleep with other people as well.
Richard can't accept his beast, can't accept humans that accept his beast, won't sleep with weres, and doesn't like that Anita is turning into a monster.
Jean-Claude seems to be using everyone for power, according to Anita, and she doesn't trust him, and doesn't believe that he loves her.
I might need to take a little break from Anita and all of her vampires, wolves, and leopards.
It's getting to be a bit much.
Hamilton clearly must have found her (weird and twisted) audience, but as I've said a bunch of times, I would have liked her series better if she had stayed on the path it looked like she was originally on, with Anita solving preternatural crimes, rather than becoming Queen of the Underworld.
It's way worse with Anita, who is pretty much having Monster of the Week crushes at this point.
In keeping with her naming her books after places, L.K. Hamilton's novel, Blue Moon, has several connotations.
Her were-leopard friends are becoming more touch-friendly and she is playing with fire when it comes to handling Nyer and his wish for the Spear of Christ, an artifact that was supposedly the spear that went through Christ at the Crucifixion 2000 years ago.The book is troubling for several reasons: Anita is even more moral-less than in past novels.
both richard and jean-claude lied to anita about what would happen when she had sex with them - make there marks stronger and give them all new funky powers.
but still highly annoying to me, i liked her wholesome attitude & i want it back!we got to meet richards mum and baby brother.and because richard and jean-claude lied to anita about the marks she's decided to try and stay away from them for a while to get control of her new skills and find out who she is now.
I was really liking these at first. Anita Blake is a bad ass. I was liking the paranormal, and mystery aspect that was happening. Now it's getting a bit like a soap opera. I was looking forward to the next and the next up to this point. I think I will have to take a break and read something with a bit more horror, and come back to the series a bit later on.
For me, this book showed to be well written with great character and relationship development among were-leopards, were-wolves and vampires.I enjoyed not having so much Jean-Claude in this book.
Richard got more time in this book which was delightful in some of the revelations of his escapades.From trying to rescue Richard from jail and numerous fights with humans compounded by continuing vampire politics and cruelty, Anita was thrown between life and death battles from beginning to end in this tale.
I have had a huge break from reading Anita Blake series.
But after few books I decided I need a break and it took me a lot of time to come back to the series.
I still like it in spite of the love triangle I usually hate in every book.The story is good and grabbing with lots of pack and shifters stuff.
However, some parts are rather dark and I'm not sure about what to think about them but I didn't feel the need to stop reading.
Her constantly pushing and pulling Jean-Claude and Richard is slowly driving me mad.I feel like it's time to continue with the series.
Kurgu da olsa bir kadının hayatına öyle ya da böyle giren bütün erkekler yakışıklı mı olur ???
Yok onun saçı güzel, yok bunun gözleri dehşet ayy :P Bayağı ütopik olmuş :DSevgili yazar, Anita'yı yosma(Kitaptaki tabir.Ben başka bir şey derdim de neyse..) yapmak zorunda mısın ?
Ne için olduğunu tahmin edersiniz artık :P J.C. ile sevgili olup Richard'ın da sadece kendine bağlanmasını istemesi çok bencilceydi.
Ama aksiyon kısımları çok iyiydi.
Thompson'a nasıl öyle işkence etti yaa, ben yapamaz diyordum o.O Ama insanlığı da git gide zedeleniyor kızın.
Bence ileride olacaklara şaşırmamamız için yazar bizi hazırlıyor :P Lütfen bozma şu kızı yaa okumam bak!
Some friends have read 50 Shades (yes, I do point and laugh when they admit it) and either hate it and want to read a "good" dirty book or love it and want more of the same.
I don't read "naughty" books.
So, to the delight of some contrarian somewhere I have a stack of books I am working my way through in hopes of finding something to recommend.
If you are bored and it is on hand, it is an entertaining read.
But with all the truly wonderful books in the world, I wouldn't go out of my way to pick it up./two cents
Anita barely sat down in this book.
There was so much going on.
But not so much that you were completely overwhelmed.
Anita also is a complete badass even though she feels out of control.
I really missed Jean Claude.
I'm hoping to see more of him in the next book.
This was a really great read.
Although I felt the ending was kind of ridiculous.
There were tons of battles and tough situations but she survives the final battle with prayer?
We are talking about Anita Blake.
I expected a big bang of an ending but it left me a little disappointed.
This is the last one in the series I could read.Up until now they were really good but this onegot a little too erotica for me.
this girl has so many boy toys it’s giving me anxiety trying to keep them straight
i'm not even going to defend this rating so don't ask. like yes these books are objectively terrible AND YETalternate review: come for the vampires, stay for the slow slide into debauchery, kink and polyamoryi will admit that every time someone ends a statement with a question mark and we get told they "made it a question" i want to smack Ms Hamilton like yes WHAT DO YOU THINK A QUESTION IS and also WHERE IS YOUR EDITOR
It starts with Richard, Anita's ex-fiance and alpha werewolf, being jailed for alleged sexual assault of a woman.
Anita knows that Richard would not be capable of such a thing, so heads off to rescue him.
Because Richard is trying to save the trolls, he refuses to leave town, and Anita stays with him, even though this pisses off the entire local vampire contingent.
YOU ARE A SOCIOPATH!!!!!Sorry, I'll try to focus.After choosing Jean-Claude two books ago, she finally gives in to her attraction to Richard and they do the dirty.
Mo matter what you do or how bad you feel about it, life just goes on.
The constant whining about this really got on my last nerve.Secondly, Richard's mother and brother are raped by the bad guys this time instead of his pack members.
I'm not bothered by having rape used as a storyline as such if there is a point to it and the story is followed through but I don't think that happened here which left me wondering why it was used.The werewolf politics really bored me to tears-whole sections on how to great each other correctly and where to sniff and all that stuff and in the end, Anita doesn't even go to the pack meeting!
I always enjoyed Anita's kick ass attitude but this twist to the character made me love Anita more.
A girl wth beauty, power, and incredible strenght who is not just capable of doing efficient job but also is vulnerable to pain and love.What is alarming about the book for some is the injection of the sexual aspect of the characters involve.
A plateau.So overall, still a good read with a little precaution because of the sexual aspect for readers who doesn't enjoy that.
Still packed with gore, kick ass and details fight scenes, and the usual love triangle of Anita - Jean Claude - Richard.
A potentially great story line with Richard having been accused of attacking a woman, something readers will know he's not capable of, and needing to get out of jail before the full moon reveals his werewolf secret and destroys his life.
Unfortunately large chunks of the book were taken up with Anita's burgeoning sexuality and a chase through the woods as the werewolf pack lose control.
Instead, what started as the main plot gets sidelined and tied up at the end rather quickly without ever getting the due care and attention it deserved.
The books are getting thicker but the story lines seem to be getting thinner.
This piece of whatever is barely worth the paper the book was printed on, and I listened to it on audiobook.
I want to like the Anita Blake series so much, I really did get a kick out of the first three or four, but first I started to get kind of bored with the whole Richard/ Jean Claude blah blah blah, and then she just starts raping people.
At the end of the book JUST to provide a LITTLE more motivation for Anita to kick some ass?
Maybe it's because she prayed to get rid of a demon?
Or maybe it's because she has sex with anything that moves and gets mystical powers from it.
It seems like at the end of every book she either hates Jean-Claude, Richard, depending on who she just spent a lot of time/had sex with, or herself.
And how many titles can she have?
I'll read the next book just to see what new mystical power and title she uncovers.
I hope it's not demons that she learns how to control by having sex with them or I will stop reading these.
Sexual angst and powerTo be perfectly honest, I threw this book away after I finished.
Some people will be happy that the story is full of sex, talk about sex, misunderstandings about sex, sexual abuse, cheating--with 'permission', and open relationships.
The book ends with Anita wondering if God has forgiven her and concludes that he may be too merciful.
(view spoiler)[ The vampire turns out to be essentially an incubus.
Anita can use sex to heal mortal wounds.
Sex equals power and that turns this series in a direction I don't care to follow.
(hide spoiler)]This will most likely be the last book I read in this series.mature content
