https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14431.Rites_of_Passage
Odd, in that it keeps the reader at arm's length for much of Edmund Talbot's narrative.
Young William is a prig and a stuffed shirt and a snob and awfully skilled at self-deception and there was no greater desire in my ungenerous heart than for him to get his comeuppance.
When it arrives though it is in the realisation that he has been unknowingly, and yet not entirely blamelessly instrumental in the kind of public humiliation that a sensitive man cannot survive.
So Talbot's pained self-knowledge that I so wished upon him comes at the cost of a man's life.

Original review 13 Oct 2015:A tragicomic tale that takes place entirely on a sea voyage in the early 19th century, this is an entertaining book, more about the class system than about the sea.
Postscript added 1 Feb 2017:The Mookse and the Gripes group is revisiting the Booker shortlist for 1980, the year this one won, and all of the other three shortlisted books that I have read so far (i.e. Earthly Powers, A Month in the Country and The Beggar Maid) impressed me more than this one did.
I wonder whether this was a compromise choice agreed to honour an established writer whose other books may have merited the prize more than this one
Then there was the disappointment of the explanatory-dénouement passage, which all felt a little clunky—but Golding still managed to pull off a last surprise, in the form of a memorable final line.
He is also in love with naval language, although he is more user-friendly in is deployment of it than someone like Patrick O’Brian, having helpfully chosen a landlubber as his main voice, so that all the sea talk is effectively subtitled.I realize this review is a little cryptic in terms of plot, but this really is a novel you’re better off reading in complete ignorance of the plot, if you can possibly manage it.
William Golding's Rites of Passage is one of those books you can't say much about, since it ruins the tale.
Talbot is a pompous young man, and aristocrat, who happens to keep a detailed journal.
In the end, the tale becomes a profound meditation on Good and Evil -- in every man.
So much so, that getting toward the end I wondered if Golding was opting for a "Rashomon effect." Not that there's anything wrong with that powerful literary device, but Golding, in the last few pages, goes deeper.
Very conscious of his station, he is surprised that the Captain did not greet him personally, and is aggrieved at the size of his cabin, which he calls a hutch) but he soon resolves to make the best of it:I have resigned myself therefore, used Wheeler for some of this unpacking, set out my books myself, and seen my chests taken away.
But this is a more personal book; the darkness is less atavistic, less a matter of what others do, more a question of what lurks in one's own soul.Edmund Talbot is not the only journal writer on board.
One can only imagine the politics (and the bitching with Anthony Powell was well publicised) that went on in the background.Rites of Passage is so ponderous, and the two primary characters, Talbot and Colley, are so wooden and one dimensional.It's actually quite easy to write comedy novels about the English Class system and the weird foibles of yesteryear (judging from classic Wodehouse, Waugh, Powell and many others), but this is not Golding's forte.On British TV there was a recent series called Life on Mars which took a tongue-in-cheek look at 1970s policing and attitudes.
This book was absolutely brilliant, and utterly awful, and I really hated it.
And the plot movements that made it brilliant and awful work best when they unfold naturally, so this is where I'll stop.Other than to say that Golding's narration is fantastic: he is excellent at writing the journal of a pompous man-child (the book is about a young, wealthy man on his way to a bought position in the colonies, traveling via ship and writing a journal for his wealthy godfather and benefactor).
The Napoleonic wars are coming to an end and young Edmund has joined a heterogeneous crowd of émigrés on board an old decommissioned warship, for a long voyage to Australia where he is to become an important man in the administration.The early narrative takes the form of a journal that Edmund Talbot keeps on the way to Australia – ostensibly to amuse and inform his godfather back in England.
“Kişi başkalarının yaptıklarıyla değil, kendi yaptıklarıyla kirlenir.”
It ends up being a story about bullying; (view spoiler)[Reverend Colley, whose version of most of the events happening to him is relayed in a letter to his sister, is picked on and plied with drink until the point that he performs fellatio on a handsome sailor.
Colley then realizes the level to which he has abased himself and retires to his cabin, willing himself to die.
(hide spoiler)] I spent most of the book thoroughly not enjoying it, but the last quarter of the novel tied everything together and gave the story a meaningful structure.
Loved it. A very intriguing story about the social life on a voyage. Superbly written, as the story develops it becomes a real page turner. I finished the first half in a week, and the second half in a day. I can't wait to start Close Quarters, the second part in the trilogy.
Loved this book! Going to start the second book in the trilogy next. Somehow I had not been aware that Golding had won a Nobel.
It may be fancy pants, but it's still crap. Yes, sir.
2.5 stars. A lesser Golding novel (hard to believe it won the Booker prize). Gets much better in the second half with the change of perspective but is missing the abstract hallucinatory prose of his best work because of the chosen narrative device to tell the story first person through journal entries.
Having boasted about his journal of events, Talbor has made Anderson aware of the need to cover up his own aggressive behaviour towards Colley - because it was that which made others on board feel that they could bully him with impunity.
I'd like to read the sequels on which these are based if they're as good as this one was, deftly written in a C19th seafaring style and showing Talbot's painful self-growth towards maturity.I finished reading and journalled this book on 23.2.2008.Lisa Hill, ANZ LitLovers (Cross-posted at The Complete Booker).


If you rate a novel on Goodreads, you indicate how much you liked it and not how good you thought it was.
Rites of Passage is one of those novels that I think is good, but I can't exactly say I liked it very much.
The story simply didn't grip me, and I couldn't even keep some characters apart because so little was said about them.
I felt there was much more in it than I got out of it; so two stars because it was "ok" in terms of my enjoyment, but in a more general way, it would deserve three, I think.
I should have known, since this is William Golding, that it would be about bullying. If I had realized what this book was going in, I might have given it a higher review. However, I was led to believe that I had bought a rousing, swashbuckling sea novel and so, of course, was pretty disappointed. That being said, for what it is, it's very well done, and is an especially good read in light of how much press bullying is getting. Just wasn't what I was looking for.
I found Lord of the flies a bit better and easier to read - perhaps because the language employed in Rites of Passage is hardly the usage of modern English (or is it because I am no sailor myself?)In any case, another remarkable book by Golding ..... I'll retain the last reflections:"Men can die of shame .... Like all men at sea, who live too close to each other and too close thereby to all that is monstruous under the sun and moon".
I haven't rated this as I didn't get too far before realising I wasn't willing to persevere with it. So I can't say I've read it either. Mainly it was the style of writing that I found laborious. Or perhaps I'm just lazy and couldn't be bothered re-reading sentence after sentence to follow its meaning. Whatever!
I love the focus on relationships, friendships, religion, cabin-fever and morals. I found it brilliant that Golding introduced the moral debate about a man of religion having a drinking problem and that introducing some animosity. However, not a lot happened in the novel and was quite slow-burning. A good premise and whilst it had its moments, overall, I found this quite disappointing.
This is one worth perservering with. Initially the olde English language put me off slightly but after a while it soon becomes familiar. Ultimately it's a tragic story and tackles issues like bullying, lonliness, remorse, shame and living with the consequences of ones actions or, in some cases, inactions.
In this book a man dies of shame. Few writers could make this credible. But William Golding does. Through the eyes of callow, supercilious snob Mr Talbot, we observe the passengers of an unnamed vessel, emigrating to Australia, and the humiliation that leads to the demise of the Reverend Colley. Brilliant!
Vivid descriptions of the claustrophobic life on an early nineteenth century sailing ship coupled with a brilliant description of status, class and inhumanity. All told in wonderful prose. A great short novel, which feels much larger than its relatively small word count.
For an Australian this book resonates even more, since the story is about an immigrant ship to Australia.This book is just amazing. Awesome.
Difficult to understand the story from the start up once you get there Golding creates a wonderfully claustrophobic atmosphere of life below deck. The first book in the trilogy I am hooked.
Not that great of book. It dragged on from the first page. Wordy and not good, boring English stuff. Would not recommend it.
Set aboard a cramped all-purpose ship carrying goods and people from England to Australia in around 1812/13, a class-segregated ship named the Britannia, William Golding's Rites Of Passage considers how it might happen that a young sensitive awkward man, deluded about his own skills, can become the victim of a sordid prank and kill himself from the shame of it.
Looking at just Talbot and Colley - they both simultaneously have to go through that rite of passage from indulged youth to welcomed adult.
Golding is interested in this rite of passage.
