https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14568987-the-art-forger
In my twenties I spent years perfecting the Parrish technique (which harkens back to Bellini and later artist such as Degas) and to this day the paintings glow in my home, though, I don't paint in this manner anymore due to the incredible amount of time it takes in between glazings.So, imagine picking up what you hope is a decent mystery surrounding the art world and discovering further clues on the very techniques I've attempted to master and discovering a solution to a gnarly problem that has long escaped me (Why isn't there a writer who exclusively authors mysteries taking place in the art world, as for example Francis does with horses and Dunning does with books?).One of the things I love about this book is its verisimilitude.
My predominant emotion while reading this book was irritation and I became much more interested in why it was irritating me so much than I was in the novel itself.
I think what they mean though is simply that she told the story of Han van Meegeren.
There’s a suggestion this novel asks the question, what are the moral implications of forgery in a world where everyone sees what they want to see?
But if you want to read a serious, well-crafted novel about an art forger I’d recommend The Last Painting of Sara de Vos
I will start by saying that my experience reading The ART FORGER was like I sat down to watch the movie Heat, and for some reason the movie Quick Change ended up in my DVD player by accident.Okay maybe I am exaggerating a bit, but it was a much lighter read than I had expected...I kept looking at THE ART FORGER on other people's "to read" list and was kind of on the fence about it.
It has a little bit of everything -mystery, romance, suspense, art history, and everything you would ever want to know about art forgery but were afraid to ask.
The story centers around artist Claire Roth, who is good at making reproductions of famous paintings.
Claire recognizes that she's making a deal with the devil, and part of her payment is she gets her own art show.The novel includes chapters about Claire's background, which involve a doomed love affair with an older artist, and there are also letters from Isabella Stewart Gardner to her niece.
The flashback chapters, the letters and the present-day action slowly build toward solving the mystery of the stolen painting.I enjoyed the artistic aspects of the novel, especially the details of different forgers and the skills they used to make such believable reproductions.
Sorry, could not care if Claire was successful or not.
I know we were supposed to be sympathetic toward her, why else for the youth prison volunteerism, but she was too untrustworthy.
Of course she had her penance of never knowing if her paintings are selling because of her talent or her notoriety.
Tough break for a felon.Few too many loopholes in the story, and the devotion of her friends seemed unfounded (most I could glean-- the men liked her because she was attractive—although Rik was thrown in as a gay man).
Just couldn’t care if Claire was thrown in jail or not.
On top of the her unexciting narrative tone, Shapiro includes an ongoing correspondence between the collector Isabella Stewart Gardner and her niece which is both stylistically unconvincing and a cheap trick -- the letters themselves are available to the reader, but are presumed to have been destroyed in the fictional universe they are meant to illuminate.
Most readers will know the conclusion long before Claire and the obtuse museum officials (the 1990 Gardner museum robbery seems to have done little to increase the saavy of the members of the Boston and New York art scene on display here).
Described in even more loving detail is the Gardner Museum, which I didn’t have time to visit (and I so wish I had).The ending felt anticlimactic.
I realize I am perhaps being too critical, as well as contradictory, but I either wanted one more (fictional) letter or perhaps no letters at all, since I’m not sure the tone of them rang true from an aunt who has robbed her niece of happiness—and I don’t think that was their point.The novel is billed as a ‘literary’ thriller and while not of the same order as What I Loved or The Goldfinch, it’s still an interesting glimpse into the art world, even appealing once to my childhood self who loved From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E.
The foundation of the story is based on the 1990 theft of thirteen paintings from The Isabella Gardner Museum.
Barbara Shapiro paints a tale of the who, why, what to explore a plausible explanation regarding one of the most famous art pieces gone missing that day; a Degas.
In the story the stolen painting is a fictional work by the famous artist named After the Bath.
Claire Roth, an artist and reproductionist makes a deal to forge the stolen painting.
Tense is places, enough mystery, characters that were vivid and that I liked, this was a fine read for me.
I enjoyed this so much that I will have to read it again sometime. I also need to get more of her books.
When she gets an offer she can’t refuse in the form of her own show in a top-notch art gallery plus a healthy monetary payment in return for forging a well known Degas stolen from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in the famous 90s heist, morals be damned.
The twist has been well publicized, so there’s no spoiler here, but Claire must decide what she’s going to do when she discovers the “original” Degas she’s presented with to copy from is a forgery.There’s a lot for me to like in the book: Shapiro does her “facts” very well.
I have actually long held a little-known fascination with the Gardner heist, primarily because of the idea that her will induces the museum board to leave empty frames in their place, even decades after the only unsolved large-scale art heist.
Something I am sure Isabella Gardner never could have foreseen when she wrote her will that way, but, somehow, based on what I have read about her character, I am sure it is exactly the way she would have loved it to be.
I confess to being wrapped up in the reading of this book and particularly the art of art forgery Shapiro unmasks.
Isn't it just as valuable as art even if it was painted by an unknown?
We seem to carry our love of celebrity back into the ages before us and it is the name that sells.Shapiro's main character, Claire, is a bit conflicted on the morality issues and a little heavy on excusing her own part in the disasters in which she becomes involved, but she is very human in wanting to be recognized for her talents.
I enjoyed the art techniques described succinctly - painting, curing, aging, framing.
Art history, art appreciation, collector's obsessions, and the Gardner Art Museum heist were other founding plot-drivers that I found fascinating, along with literary elements.
In all fairness, most literary mystery novels typically aren't.
I did enjoy her letters to her niece.
Lastly, the off-color language and loose morals and sketchy ethics left a pungent scent in the air.
A scent that bitters and detracts.
And that, along with the above mentioned disconnects, was the deciding factor to round down - not up.3.5 THREE *** Literary Mystery: Contemporary in Voice, Historical in Reach, Slow Burning *** STARS
When Claire comes to suspect that something is not quite right about the painting Aiden has given her to copy, her investigation leads her to research the museum where the painting was hung, the museum's colorful, world traveling founder Isabella Gardner, and the life and techniques of the artist Degas.
Interspersed between chapters told from Claire's point of view are lively nineteenth century letters about Degas and the European art scene of the time from Isabella Gardner to her beloved niece.
I loved this book, all the art references and the art processes explained here are catnip to me. I love museums and art, therefore any book mixing both its going to my criteria. The only reason I'm not giving it 5 stars is because I hated the main characther personality , (so much so that I was rooting for her to get in trouble) but I guess all is well that ends well!!! :) I am completely satisfied with this book!
This is the kind of mystery that would not make a good movie, but is an intirguing tale for a book. This taught me much about art- oil painting, especially, that I did not know. Next time I go to the Art Institute I sure will be looking closely at those Impressionists. LOL! Enjoyable tale filled with excellent research. The plot, to me, was rather discernable, early on.
I seem to have an interest in the sub-genre of art forgery, even though, all told, I can think of just two (or three) other books I've read in that category.
I read two books by the same author but can't remember if they were both about art forgery.
I put the jewelers' loupe to my eye and shift back and forth between the photo and the painting.
The effect is a little like when the main character in The Shipping News is finally revealed to himself as a virile male.
The story moves deftly back and forth between the period where Claire is in love with Isaac who ruins her life, the present, and letters Isabella Stuart Gardner writes to her niece from her art purchasing trip.
The Isabelle Stuart Gardner heist is one of the greatest unsolved mysteries of the art world.
After reading this story I would love to get to visit the Gardner museum in person one day.
Although the mystery may never be solved as to who stole the paintings from the Gardner we can all imerse ourselves in the art world with the irrestible characters B.A. Shapiro has created.
This review is from: The Art Forger: A Novel (Hardcover) Claire Roth is an artist that has been involved in an art work scandal and has found herself blackballed in the artistic world.
The story also intertwines the story of the founding of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston and the place the stolen Degas was exhibited.Claire is throughly involved in the orginal scandal and in the decision to copy the Degas picture.
You never feel sorry for her as she created her own mess.
I did not care that she got a new couch which takes up way too much page space.It was interesting to learn how paintings are forged.
Her call to adventure comes in the form of a prominent gallery owner who offers her a one-woman show in exchange for a tiny favor: create an exact copy of a Degas masterpiece that just happens to have been stolen from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in 1990 in the largest theft in American history.That we actually buy this is a tribute to author Shapiro’s skill in setting up Claire’s character and her world.
For once we have an amateur detective whose involvement in the case is actually credible.It’s good that Claire is as well-drawn as she is, because she’s on nearly every page of the book.
Twenty-five years earlier, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum was robbed of a number of paintings including the Degas "After the Bath".
Three years ago, artist Claire Roth allowed an older artist, once her professor and later her lover, make a fool out of her and derail her art career by claiming that a painting she did was his work.
The thing is- this is NOT the original but also a copy and leads Claire on the trail of mystery and suspense both now and in the days of Isabella Gardner to find the truth.
I'm going to start with a bit of a spoiler, because I just can't discuss the book without mentioning it: the "forgery" itself blows up in their faces; the more Markel said "there's layers, babe, they can't get to me ..." the more certain I became he would be wrong.
I would've preferred that Claire actually discover a couple of them that directly related to the Degas matter, rather than so many interspersed throughout the book.
This is one of the few times I have been driven to read a book by sheer curiosity after reading the back text.
And the original might actually *already* be a forgery?
Seriously, how can I not read this book?
The mystery of what happened to the original isn't hard to figure out, though I didn't actually see it coming because I was so busy enjoying everything else about the story I didn't stop to think about it much.
And the author includes a lot of fascinating detail about how art is made and how the main character can make a forgery.
It's that nagging (just like a mother's "sit up straight!") that makes you really take a second look at the books you've been meaning to read forever and realize from reviews that you really should.
I really liked this book because it shows just how much work it takes to fake a painting.
I don't know if I'd consider this historical fiction first because Shapiro at the end says she made up some characters that made the story work.
So maybe a fiction about artists first and historical information provided to move the story along.
A writer friend once told me that when she walks into a library anywhere in the world, the smell makes her feel instantly at home.It takes my mind a moment to catch up with my body, and I realize I'm feeling dread.If Rik were around he'd say 'I'm getting old here.'Six weeks is a long time.
Most of which I see no man doing at all.We can only talk about the bad forgeries, the ones that have been detected.
The good ones are still hanging on museum walls.
On the night of St Patrick's Day in 1990 when the attention of Boston was focused elsewhere, thieves entered the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum and made off with art valued at $500 million, including three Rembrandts, one of only 34 known paintings by Vermeer, and works by Manet and Degas.
Part mystery, part art history lesson, part novel about rebuilding your self-confidence after it has been shattered, B.A. Shapiro's The Art Forger is a well-written, intriguing, and well-researched look at the world of art forgery.Claire Roth is a young artist whose promising career was derailed after a scandal involving a former lover and fellow artist.
I've a soft spot for stories about art and artists and hoped to enjoy this novel.
It was clever, the plot an original twist on so many real artist novels.
She makes money by working for reproductions.com as their Degas specialist, copying his paintings for wealthy buyers.
She's very good at it, has studied the great forgers' techniques and so temptation comes her way.
3D characters, a great sense of place and of young artists' lives make it fascinating reading.
No wonder the buyers want provenance and documentary proof these days!If you like art, mysteries and great writing this is the book for you.
Claire Roth is the main character who has been living under the shadow of false accusations and the emotional repercussions of the death of her bi-polar, married lover who just happened to be her former professor and the credited artist of a famous painting purchased by MOMA.
The tale of the lover and the painting are told in flashbacks while the current drama of Clare's life as an art "reproduction" expert who specializes in Degas unfolds.
Claire is contacted by an old acquaintance to copy a Degas that was stolen in the theft at Boston's Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum twenty years ago.
3.5 starsI thought that this was a) historical fiction and b) a mystery.
However, being from the Boston area, I enjoyed all the local color and I found the information about art very interesting.
In particular, seeing the "art scene" in terms of a business, a way of making a living, was fascinating.
I found the historical fiction parts about Isabella Stewart Gardner fun but not completely believable.
I also thought that (view spoiler)[Aiden Markel's "big reveal" predictable and it bothered me all along that Claire wasn't more cautious/suspicious.
(hide spoiler)]
