https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88455.The_Chocolate_Touch
It's a book that works well at the beginning of the year or with groups who may not be up to level later in the year.John Midas likes chocolate.
He finds a coin.
He finds that he can purchase a box of chocolates with this coin.
Soon he has his own special Midas touch.I find that I need to teach the students the story of King Midas prior to reading this book they understand the parallels.The reading is fairly easy and the concepts clear.
Students do not struggle to understand the humor.****p65 simile "bounded ahead like a jackrabbit"****1 October 2006
I love this book partly because I read it as a child and partly because I love the lessons that it teaches children, such as:1. There definitely can be TOO much of a good thing (such as Christmas every day, chocolate all the time, etc.)2. Nutrition - our body needs healthy foods to function healthily.3. Moderation in all things.4. It teaches these ideas in a fun, silly way that kids love.
I've always loved this book :) This reading of it was no different. It wasn't quite how I remembered, but a charming fable nonetheless.

This book had one lesson, not to be greedy. The book stayed on topic so it wasn't very confusing. Some books I read didn't have that "trait" in them. It`s a great book for children.
This book had one lesson, not to be greedy. The book stayed on topic so it wasn't very confusing. Some books I read didn't have that "trait" in them. It`s a great book for children.
As a big nerd of classical antiquity, I really liked the idea behind this book.
So, I was excited to settle down and read this to my 8 year old.
The book did what it set out to do, but it did little more.
My 8 year old (and kids’ options about such books should probably matter more than my own) enjoyed the book.
She was excited to read through it.
It’s one of those books that is enjoyed for the moment while you read it, but largely forgotten after you’re done with it.
John Midas loves chocolate more than anything in the world, including his friends and family.
His greed is punished when he is given the chocolate touch.
Everything John puts near his mouth turns to chocolate!
It sounds great at first because everything from toothpaste to his pencil turns into delicious chocolate but it becomes disasterous.
Kids will be interested to learn more about an ancient Greek myth about King Midas who was given the golden touch.Food for thought: If you could turn anything to chocolate what would it be?
AND Do you think John learned his lesson?
I think this book was a good book but I would not want to be in the same situation he is in. But chocolate is one of my favorite things. So I would definitely read this book
It was great! I loved it so much 4 star rating :]
This is a fun story that’s a variation on the King Midas myth, but involves the dilemma of a young boy afflicted with “chocolatitis.”It’s a perfect book for chocolate lovers and I am a huge chocolate fan, but chocolate gloves? Yuck!This is a good early reader and read aloud book, and has a moral lesson about not being selfish or greedy.I think I missed this when I was young even though it’s from my era; it’s now a bit dated but still very enjoyable.
I read this book with my students...it is great and my 3rd-grade students loved every word. I gave them a test over it...they all passed and I rewarded them with m&ms...yay!!!Well...I read this book again...but to my 2nd-grade students. They LOVED it!!! And totally groaned when the story ended...one student even said...that's it...I want more!!! I love hearing that!!!
This book is good and when you wouldn't think of it , it has a nice story about selfishness and the boy learns a lesson that life isn't about him or candy. Everything might turn into chocolate that touches his lips but in the end everything goes back to normal expect his love for chocolate turns away for people he loves even more.
I read this book with my little one. She loves chocolate and got a kick out of this story. We even ate chocolate while we read it. It was quite a fun experience reading and learning a few life lessons. I liked how the story was written and enjoyed how it kept her engaged. I loved how John came full circle and my little one’s favorite part was the trumpet episode. She giggled so hard that it was sweet. It was quite the experience and we made some memories.
My 7-year old son’s rating and review. “This was so cool! My favorite part is when John kissed his mom and turned her into chocolate. If you like silly books, you should read this book!”
For example, The Chocolate Touch was a quick and short book with an interesting plot.
I also liked this book because it teaching a lot of life lessons.
I say this because this book only has 128 pages and has an interesting plot which is about a greedy boy who all he eats is chocolate page 24.
One theme I learned in this book is to be appreciate in life i=even with the smallest things.
For example, all John was eating in the beginning was chocolate but then he got sick and was forced to eat different foods so that taught him his lesson in my perspective.

I remember reading it when I was younger, probably somewhere between third and fifth grade, and I found it both fun and slightly disturbing.
Just like the Midas Touch, everything this kid eats turns into chocolate after eating a special candy from a store.
Its crazy, but he thinks its cool until he turns his parents into chocolate statues.
I remember feeling bad for the kid at the time, but I suppose he did that whole "learn a valuable lesson" thing.
Too much of a good thing and all that.
But I remember being very satisfied by the story in the end.
The chocolate touch is a great book.
It teaches you not to be greedy.
Because when a boy finds a magic coin with his initials on it he decides to start a coin collection.
But when he walks past a chocolate store.
CHOCOLATE, CHOCOLATE, CHOCOLATE.
The boy loves chocolate.
He walks into the store and buys candy completely forgetting about his coin collection.
When he opens the gigantic box he finds only one chocolate.
But when he eats it it's the best chocolate he has ever eaten.
The next morning he walks up every thing tastes like chocolate.
I suppose this is a useful way to introduce kids to the King Midas myth (legend? story?). But wow! It's preachy and moralistic. And all the adults are so dismissive of John - was that true to the era, or just another example of the annoying writing style? My 8yo seemed to like it okay, but it wasn't a fav. He said it was kind of cheesy. The 11yo (who read it to himself) said it was too predictable.
Published in 1952, this book has a timeless element that still speaks to children today. It's based on the myth of King Midas and the plot follows the main points of that legend. We are holding our inaugural meeting of a children's book club this evening. A few members of my book club have similarly aged kids, so we are giving it a try. This is the book we are discussing (along with themed crafts, snacks, and games).
This was a really good and funny book john the main character ate a chocolate and now what ever he eats is chocolate!!!!
This was a very cute story!
The Chocolate Touch is about a boy named John who loves chocolate so much that he would eat it any time a day , but there is also a lesson to learn
John Midas was just like any young kid.
Whenever he got his chance to eat candy, he would take it.
But what’s special about him, is that he is more like an enhanced version of the average kid in this area.
He LOVES candy!, especially chocolate, and in the book,”The Chocolate Touch”, author of Patrick Skene Catling, he shows just how much he loves it.
He finds out he’s been over eating way to much chocolate.
This somehow functionally causes him to only be able to eat chocolate.
I recommend this passage to all the chocolate lovers out there as a fun side book.
Cute little middle grade book with a fun morale: be careful of wanting something because you might get it, and it might not be such a good thing.John Midas loves chocolate more than anything, but when he bites into a magic chocolate, everything he touches turn into chocolate. That's super fun at first, but then...not so much. Cute little story that you can read aloud to kids/students or hand over to just-ready-for-chapter-books readers.
Reading for my Children's Lit class. I remember this book fondly from my childhood and it did not disappoint. It also teaches a great lesson about selfishness and how too much of a good thing, is just too much!
It was kind of funny.
I liked it I would recommend you to read this book if you’re interested.
Read it with my 5th graders-cute, easy read.
A fun kid-friendly take on the old Greek tale of King Midas.
