https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403098.A_Man_for_All_Seasons
Repeated viewings ensured eventual clarity; living in the Catholic city of St. Louis one was sure to catch this on late night reruns several times a year.
The book is a quick read.
I polished it off in two long sittings, but will read it again.
I gobbled it this time, partially because it was so good, but also because I want to share it with my Dad when I go home this weekend.
Having just read A Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation I could see shades of that in there.
However, the protagonist of the play, Thomas More, takes the stand that morals are above the law, not mere gestures, for they define a man.
The most interesting aspect of this character is that he does nothing to prevent the disaster that occurs in the play, hinting that Bolt is aiming to show his audience that when the common individual does nothing to prevent it, tragedy will triumph.A Man For All Seasons is the story of a man who essentially does not bow to others putting pressure on his beliefs in regards to politics, religion and one state Marriage (a marriage that Henry VIII argued semantically, was invalid).
پیشخدمت: من را ببخشید سِر توماس، بی تقصیرم، من فقط یک آدم ساده و معمولی هستم که نمی خواهد به دردسر بی افتدتوماس مور: خداوندا، به تو پناه میبرم از انسانهای ساده و معمولیقاتل حقیقی توماس مور چه کسی بود؟ پادشاه قدرت طلب؟ سیاستمدار سازشکار؟ اسقف خدافروش؟ کارمند پَست مایه؟ دادستان بدسرشت؟ مردم کوربین؟ خیر هیچکدام، قاتل ارباب، پیشخدمتِ «ساده و معمولی» بود. او برای اینکه به «دردسر» نیفتد جاسوسی کرد، زندانبان شد، رشوه گرفت و در انتها ارباب اش را هم کشت... پیشخدمتی که چندین و چند دفعه به پاک وجدانی و بی
او برای اینکه به «دردسر» نیفتد جاسوسی کرد، زندانبان شد، رشوه گرفت و در انتها ارباب اش را هم کشت...
پیشخدمتی که چندین و چند دفعه به پاک وجدانی و بی گناهی توماس مور شهادت می داد، خودش به عنوان هیئت منصفه رای به گناه‌کاری او می‌دهد و تبر بر گردن ارباب می نهد...
بله پیشخدمت از هر کس و ناکسی «سکه» می گیرد و سکه نماد خیانت(یهودا به مسیح) استو چه اندازه از این پیشخدمت ها در جامعه ی عافیت پرست ما بسیارند...
دقت کردیم که کاخ عافیت ما بر خرابه های کدام خانه ها بنا شد؟ما هیچ ما نگاه
This country's planted thick with laws from coast to coast-man's laws, not God's-and if you cut them down-and you're just the man to do it-d'you really think you could stand upright in the winds that would blow then? Yes, I'd give the Devil benefit of law, for my own safety's sake.Several years ago I did something stupid, not sure what. It is near certain that I knew at the time. My wife yelled at me. I deserved that, I'm sure of that in hindsight. I sat and read this in one go. It isn't historically accurate but it is compelling.
This is two gems in one: The play itself is unforgettable, and Bolt's introduction is equally so.
I have my own ideas on selfhood and its importance even if there ends up being no transcendent foundation for individual identity, and I think that even if it turns out to be true that what we call the self is only a temporary assemblage of synaptic connections, the sense of self is a vital element that needs to be individually recognized and explored and delimited before any search for transcendence can be realized.
For those who are history buffs this is a play about Sir Thomas More and his refusing to submit to pressures of Cromwell to recognize the union of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn against the Roman Catholic Church.
The play was intense and shows a man, More, who actually loved his sovereign but loved God more.
I read the director's/actor's script of the play and every countenance of the characters or discourses were minutely detailed so the reader had a good concept of how the actual play should be performed.
I would recommend this play as one that is well written, clearly defined characters and highly dramatic.
After reading this book, I'm a little bit in love with Sir Thomas More.
You can't help it after reading Robert Bolt's play, though.
King Henry VIII is such a great character in this play, such an overly-jovial spoiled baby, that More looks even more noble by comparison.
(In my head I picture him looking a little bit like Clark Kent.
this is a very famous play and i'm not really sure why. thomas more makes an inspiring main character but neither he nor anybody else ever changes and there's not a single surprise or twist in the whole play. just a straight line to martyrdom from page one. it's like one long speech about standing up for principles. it's a well-written speech, but still.
نقد نمایشنامه مردی برای تمامی فصولعنوان این نمایشنامه اثر رابرت بولت به سِر تامس مور اشاره دارد.
در کل اگر متفکرترین، با فضیلت ترین و با اخلاق ترین فرد در جامعه، در نهایت سرش به نیزه آویخته شود، چه امیدی برای دیگر افراد جامعه می ماند؟ این پرسشی است که در طول خواندن نمایشنامه مردی برای تمامی فصول مدام در گوشمان تکرار می شود.کمالرابرت بولت در مقدمه این نمایشنامه اش می‌گوید که تامس مور «برای من به مردی با حسی از استواری و استقامت تبدیل شد.
در این نمایشنامه مور تنها شخصیتی است که چنین حسی از کمال را داراست.
Would you give up your life on principle for what you believe is right?Whether from our 21st century point of view, Thomas More was right or not matters little.
The play has value as a psychological portrait of a man who digs in his heels and refuses to sign an oath for reasons of conscience, though he knows that doing so will mean his death.
But that fate follows inexorably.Perversely, this play makes me think of Ammon Bundy and his crew, and the recent death of their compatriot LaVoy Finicum, even though I in no way believe in their cause.
I didn't expect to like this book/play as much as I did. Story goes, our English teacher brings in the book and has us read the super long, boring prologue. Literally, the most boring thing in the entire book. Other than that, the book/play of fly. Set during King Henry VIII's rein, poor Sir Thomas More struggles to keep his family safe while struggling to resolve an issue against his moral conscience. It's all great. No spoilers, since it is history.
با دیدن یکدیگر بر جا میمانند به وضعی سرد و دشمنانه.نور کم کم صحنه را روشن می کند.کسی جز این دونفر در صحنه نیست.بعد همزمان با یکدیگر با سرهای افراشته و یک بر به جلو می خرامند و در وسط صحنه از برابر یکدیگر می گذرند.اما همینکه به در خروجی می رسند مکث میکنند پابپا کنان و به ارامی بر میگردند.به حالت تفکر و پرسه زنان به سوی یکدیگر می ایند.کرامول سرش را بالا می گیرد و مبادرت به لبخندی می کند.شاپیس پاسخش را می دهد.بازو در بازوی هم می اندازند و به پلکان نزدیک می شوند.در حین رفتن خنده ی مظفرانه ی آنان شنیده می شود.خنده ای که نشانی از بد نهادی یا بد خواهی در ان نیست بلکه حاکی از ریشخند خود اغماض از خود .
اگر ما در کشوری زندگی می کردیم که تقوا مفید فایده بود، عقل سلیم وادارمان می کرد که خوب باشیم، و حرص و آز ما را قدیس جلوه می داد.
اما اکنون که می بینیم حرص و غضب و حسد و غرور و بطالت و شهوت و حماقت بر فروتنی و پاکدامنی و جرأت و عدالت و فهم غلبه دارد و بیشتر مفید فایده است و ما هم بهرحال باید انتخاب کنیم که اساساً انسان باشیم یا نه، پس ناچار باید کمی پایدار بمانیم، حتی اگر لازم باشد خطر «قهرمان» شدن را نیز بپذیریم.»
A very fast read; I managed to read it all in between loads of laundry. I would love to see this on the stage. I feel like the playwright captured Moore and Cromwell's positions and reputed attitudes very well. This is one of my favorite periods of history, and I never get tired of it. 3.5 rounded up.2018 Popsugar- A book that is also a stage play or musical.
3.5 stars  If anybody petition for Goodreads to create a rating system with half star in it, I will be the first to sign.  Format:  Play  Favorite characters : Thomas More - the witty, saintly guy who (view spoiler)[ finally dies (hide spoiler)] to preserve his selfhood, rather than suffer himself under the whims and wishes of his society, and betray his conscience by swearing to a lie.  What's good about this? :The play is short, the dialogue had a lot of quotable quotes, clever uses of symbol
Format:  Play  Favorite characters : Thomas More - the witty, saintly guy who (view spoiler)[ finally dies  (hide spoiler)] to preserve his selfhood, rather than suffer himself under the whims and wishes of his society, and betray his conscience by swearing to a lie.
In the end, I understand More for what he did, but (view spoiler)[ in my humble, and perhaps erroneous opinion, More ought not sacrifice himself for a tangible ideal, because by killing himself, he would achieve only his preserved sense of selfhood, but what about his family, and more importantly, what about the people of England who were left in the corrupted hand of Rich and Cromwell?

This was excellent. If you're at all interested in Henry VIII, Thomas Cromwell, Thomas More, or any of the goings-on of the English court in the early 1500's, this is a good one to read. I was particularly intrigued by how differently Thomas Cromwell is portrayed in this, as a sort of villainous side character, as opposed to him as a main character in Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel. 4/5 stars and I wish I could see it live, but I'll just have to settle for the film right now.
Well written and thoughtful. With a unique perspective as a non-Catholic, Bolt shows the beautiful rationality of Sir Thomas More's decisions that lead to his death at the hands of English King Henry VIII. The same decision that gained More sainthood in the opinion of the Catholic Church earns him the respect of all rational and principled people through the writing of Bolt.
در تقابل با کتابِ تالارِ گرگِ هیلاری منتل که بوکر برده، تصمیم گرفتم اوّل این رو بخونم که کوتاهتره و کلاسیکِ تثبیتشدهست. توی این کتاب سر تامس مور، بابتِ پایبندی به اخلاقیاتِ شخصیش و تنفّرش از سرپیچی از وجدانش تا سرحدِّ مرگ، شخصیتِ مثبته و تامس کرامول، بابتِ قدرتطلبیش و آمادگیش برای فنا کردنِ هر چیزی در راهِ رسیدن به هدفش، شخصیتِ منفی. توی مجموعهی هیلاری منتل نقشِ اوّل رو کرامول داره و تامس مور یکی از ضدّقهرمانهاست. دوست دارم بهزودی اون رو هم بخونم و دیدگاهها رو مقابلِ هم قرار بدم.
در تقابل با کتابِ تالارِ گرگِ هیلاری منتل که بوکر برده، تصمیم گرفتم اوّل این رو بخونم که کوتاه‌تره و کلاسیکِ تثبیت‌شده‌ست. توی این کتاب سر تامس مور، بابتِ پایبندی به اخلاقیاتِ شخصی‌ش و تنفّرش از سرپیچی از وجدانش تا سرحدِّ مرگ، شخصیتِ مثبته و تامس کرامول، بابتِ قدرت‌طلبی‌ش و آمادگی‌ش برای فنا کردنِ هر چیزی در راهِ رسیدن به هدفش، شخصیتِ منفی. توی مجموعه‌ی هیلاری منتل نقشِ اوّل رو کرامول داره و تامس مور یکی از ضدّقهرمان‌هاست. دوست دارم به‌زودی اون رو هم بخونم و دیدگاه‌ها رو مقابلِ هم قرار بدم.
A great classic, worth the read. We know how the story ends, and this one is a good depiction of the conflict between power --how arbitrary it can be-- and principle, in the face of all sorts of social pressure.
The author’s 1960 preface claims that “we think of ourselves in the third person,” “we no longer have, as past societies had, any picture of individual man […] by which to recognize ourselves and against which to measure ourselves; we are anything.
(His daughter’s solution to the central dilemma is Euripides’ from the Hipppolytus: “say the words of the oath and in your heart think otherwise” (140).) More himself channels Brecht by commenting on a hypothetical “happy land that needs no heroes” (140) (Brecht is cited in the preface, NB (xviii).)His ultimate adversary is Cromwell, who is the ‘government’ in Agamben’s sense from The Kingdom and the Glory, as opposed to the ‘sovereign’: “Oh they are the constitution.
It was hard to rate this...the meaning of the story itself of course deserves five stars, but the book itself seemed like three stars...so I decided on four stars. :)
No matter, the play is still a great read.
Bolt doles out true wit without sarcasm or cutting down another person, while also garnished with wisdom.
One great line that I forgot (and which isn’t in the movie)...The traitor Rich is being coaxed into betrayal, and once it’s implied that he will betray More, Cromwell says he looks depressed, Rich says he isn’t, he’s “Lamenting...I’ve lost my innocence.” To which Bolt via the character Cromwell adroitly notes about such a person:“You lost that some time ago.
Best. Play. Maybe Ever. Sir Thomas More was a man of principles inviolable, (view spoiler)[ and for such would he meet his doom (hide spoiler)]. He was a family man, a religious man - Saintly, even - and could not be tricked, bullied, or altogether coerced to break an oath he had made in good faith, even at the behest of Henry VIII.Robert Bolt's introduction to the play enriches the entire experience. We get to understand why More's story was so compelling to him, and what he hoped to achieve w
Sir Thomas More was a man of principles inviolable, (view spoiler)[ and for such would he meet his doom  (hide spoiler)].
Cut a great road through the law to get after the Devil?ROPER I'd cut down every law in England to do that!MORE Oh?
And when the last law was down, and the Devil turned round on you - where would you hide, Roper, the laws all being flat?
This country's planted thick with laws from coast to coast - man's laws, not God's - and if you cut them down - and you're just the man to do it - d'you really think you could stand upright in the winds that would blow then?
Just finished this.
Also, interesting is how the Church of England, in its attempt to escape the "oppression" of the Catholic Church in fact instituted its own sort of Inquisition and, as we all know, executed Sir Thomas More for refusing to give up Catholicism (the excuse for execution is that More committed High Treason because not swearing allegiance to the Church of England is the same as not swearing allegiance to the King, a capital offense).
Anyway, good, interesting.
More's character is very admirable in his steadfast loyalty to his beliefs in addition to his unwillingness to be hateful towards others nor admit with all certainty that he is in the right.
I love St. Thomas More but I generally detest reading plays so I wasn't quite sure of how I would feel about it. Thankfully, it turned out to be one of the most enjoyable school books in a long time. It was meaningful and ponderous, but witty all the same throughout. And I loved the idea of the Common Man, and how he tied most of the scenes together. Though I am still unsure why plays are published as books when they should obviously just be watched like they were meant to be...
Want to say only this much: If you are a Catholic and do not know much about St. Thomas More, after reading this play you would end up loving him.If you are a Catholic and knew about St. Thomas More, you would begin to love him much.If you are a Non-Catholic, you might be tempted to fall in love with St. Thomas More and the Catholic Church.
sounds boring and history-y, right? Ya well, it's also very, very interesting. It really made me think about... well a lot of stuff. Morality, matyrdom, how people become famous and reputed... Idk. It's good.
Magnificent play showing More's life and his trial under Henry VIII's reign.
I've never seen a film so many times based on a play (which I have never seen) before reading the source text.
The text is richer indeed than what the film could bring forth, but the performance of Paul Scofield, who interestingly also performed as More the first time the play was put on, is what really brings everything together.Robert Bolt's 1960 introduction to the play also gives you insights into the words he put into the characters he portrayed before us."...If we lived in a State where virtue was profitable, common sense would make us good, and greed would make us saintly.
