https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79903.Studies_in_Words
Two kinds of people will read this book (and some would think they are one and the same--people like me who love the work of C.
S. Lewis and will read anything he wrote, and people who love words and how their meanings develop and change over time.This is a work of literary scholarship that explores how the meanings and connotations of words have developed and changed over time.
Likewise, his chapter on "world" explored at length the variety of ways we use this to refer to the world of people, the world as the physical place we live, the world as the cosmos, and the world as an evil system in league with the flesh and the devil.
Very interesting read for me as a linguistics student. Really enjoyed the close examination of certain words.
The book has a philological purpose: he examines the semantic history of 8 words, beginning with their Greek and Latin roots.
I am not a fan of 19th century philological views of language, but this work is the best of the breed and shows the importance of this methodology for the study of any literature of any era.
I found it refreshing to read about the many connections between the use of language and the moral and political purposes of those using words.
The study of language often ignores this factor in the production of prose, poetry and imaginative literature.
Simply brilliant - both in Lewis' analysis of the subject matter (word history) and in his writing. If you have even a slight interest in the origins of words, you'll find this a very rewarding read.
This is a brilliant study of words and the way their meanings change over time.
One might wonder why he narrowed his list to these particular words, but I suspect that Lewis believed that these words were particularly important and their shifts in meaning significant in the history of language, at least up to his time.
His concluding chapter deals with the use of language in literary criticism, but it has a broader application.
His point seems to be that the words we use to criticize say more about us and our understanding (or lack of understanding) of words than they do about the person we are criticizing.
If you have any remote interest in the origins of words, particularly that class of words which are so ubiquitous as to have lost their meaning, this is an excellent book for you.
You walk away from this book with a greater grasp of English, not only of its history, but of that curious linguistic process termed pejoration.
This is something we rarely think of in our daily conversations or writing, making Lewis' book a very good reminder to watch what we say and to take care to express precisely what we mean.
Studies in Words is C.S. Lewis the scholar at his most accessible, if the reader has any interest at all in linguistics or how words come to be.
Some Biblical translation exegesis is present (on the word "world"), notable for its rarity in Lewis’ writings.
Although the book is about the way words develop, Lewis characteristically can’t help but make moral observations, since the way people think affects the way they speak (and vice versa).
In the last chapter he sneaks in a welcome essay on the proper motivation and use of criticism in relation to the words critics use to condemn.
For example, in a kind of "You are now free to move about the country" Southwest Airlines sense, we today use free to mean physical mobility.
On popular-critical use of language he has much to say, most of it applying the ideas of verbicide and d.s. to a few of the words I reference at the end of the fifth paragraph.If you're in for an etymological romp with application potential delivered in Lewis's crystal-clear manner, Studies in Words is worthwhile reading.
The vocabulary usage Lewis chooses is profound. It took me some time to absorb his philosophy of language usage. This is a wonderful read which will turn you into a zeitgeist if you let it.
Interesting and enjoyable, as with much of Lewis, a little above my reading level.
Many false ideas are smuggled into words and if you unpack the meaning, certain equivocations appear.Old Review:Natural Law advocates MUST read the first chapter, which is on nature.
Lewis is quick to point out that words do often show a surprising continuity, but it is a continuity of fortune and providence, not necessity.The ending, though, is very humbling, not to mention brilliant: "I think we must get it firmly fixed in our minds that the very occasions on which we should most like to write a slashing review are precisely those on which we had much better hold our tongues.
Nine words, one multi-word expression, and one chapter about expressing emotions on three hunderd pages.
I might need to know my English better than I do or I might not be so lazy to use dictionary as I am not native speaker nor very good in English and sometimes had some problems with undertanding.
In spite of these hardships and the Latin and French which I understand even less (or not at all :D) I enjoyed it.
It made me think about words we use every day.And...
Lewis read Jane Austen!
I know she's great.
If you want to read Dante, or even Jane Austen - or if you want to learn more about philosophy and the way words like 'nature' and 'sense' developed, this book is a great help and a fascinating read.
If you run into a word in an old book, say 'philosophy', it helps to know that in the old days philosophy meant all of science, including the natural sciences.
But the important thing for the general reader is that he can bring his highly specialized knowledge to bear on your general everyday thinking; and that his exuberant love for the history of words, for philosophy, and for literature is extremely apparent - and very contagious.
As a descriptivist, I often wanted to object that language is fluid, and meanings change over time, and depending on the situation - language must adapt lest it become useless.Some of the chapters here are quite good, and some left me nonplussed.
well, they weren't bad, but I don't know if I left with any particularly new revelation.However, the best chapter was At the Fringe of Language, in which the discussions on Emotive and Emotional language was brilliant and left me with plenty of new things to think about, and the parts at the end where he discussed literary critics was great: "We are in the presence of tragicomedy from real life.
Have not read this yet-- but will hopefully get my hands on it sometime soon.
The only other work of scholarship I've read by Lewis is Experiment in Criticism-- otherwise I'm only familiar with Lewis' Fiction and Apologetics.
I'd be interested to see how Tolkien would attack a topic like this, being a bit closer to the professional center of the discipline of words-- actually, I'd like to put together a reading list of those of the Inklings who dealt with language and semantics-- this work by Lewis, something by Tolkien and something by Barfield (his -Poetic Diction- certainly, but that was an early work of his).
Lewis was a scholar first, a well-known professor of medieval literature in Oxford and, later, Cambridge whose academic works, especially The Allegory of Love, was seminal and is still considered useful in the field today.
Christians who love Lewis will find his voice in it, but there's nothing that marks it as a specifically Christian book--it's a philologist's treasure, a book for lovers of words and their origins and a great resource for students of philosophy, ancient and medieval literature, and the words they use.
I wish more people would have a look at this wonderful little surprise and get to know Lewis the academic a little better.
A year or two ago I once watched a film entitled Narnia something so I'm not sure if the film was based on this book.I read its 12 Chapters at random and, despite its oldish publication (his 1959 Preface), his lecture series proved his scholarship in terms of English words derived from Latin, Greek, Middle English, etc.
Moreover, this book has been edited/reprinted 13 times during 1960-2000, thus, its readership is relatively wide which, surprisingly, the author humbly claims, "the whole of this book is about the senses of words" (p.
In brief, if you're interested in some various 'senses' of some particular words as included in each chapter, this book is for you.
Lewis has finally totally defeated me; I just can't climb into this, no matter how much I love language.
I think it's less that Lewis is academically over my head--although that's also true, in that his romp through the linguistic history of Nature, Sad, Wit, Free, and Sense includes at least six languages--and more that I just can't push myself into caring enough.
Maybe it felt too much like Latin class all over again, I don't know.
But I'm throwing in the towel, because there are other wonders to read...like maybe I can go back and give another shot at his Space Trilogy...
"Indeed I am ashamed to remember for how many years, as a boy and a young man, I read nineteenth-century fiction without noticing how often its language differed from ours.
I believe it was work on far earlier English that first opened my eyes: for there a man is not so easily deceived into thinking he understands when he does not.
In the same way some report that Latin or German first taught them that English also has grammar and syntax.
There are some things about your own village that you never know until you have been away from it." (p.311-312).
Lewis takes several words with significant histories -- and chases them through all their meanings until they reach their modern sense.
Which can be quite a permutation.
Did you know that "sad" originally meant "full"?
As in, I hope you were all sad after Christmas dinner.Nature, free, world, life can all mean all sorts of things in old documents.
And it's fascinating to watch the words undergo the exact same semantic drift in several different languages.This is a very useful book for writers.
When we bang around words, we change them.
This brings it out and lets us see what we are doing.
J.R.R. Tolkien, a philologist, wrote this in a 1960 letter to his son Christopher: "I have just received a copy of C.S.L.'s latest: Studies in Words.
. He remains at best and worst an Oxford 'classical' don—when dealing with words.
I think the best bit is the last chapter, and the only really wise remark is on the last page: 'I think we must get it firmly fixed in our minds that the very occasions on which we should most like to write a slashing review are precisely those on which we had much better hold our tongues.' Ergo silebo.
Incredible journey through the Westerna language.
Originally written for his students to guard them against applying modern meanings of words to their counterparts in classical texts, Lewis provides a fascinating foray into how the meanings of words have evolved over time.
He covers words such as 'nature,' 'conscience,' 'free,' 'world,' 'sense,' and even the funny phrase, replete throughout Jane Austen, 'I dare say'.
He always reinforces his claims with textual examples, mainly from the English language but also engaging texts in Latin, Greek, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.
My appreciation for the vast meaningful history the words I use every day has deeply enriched my life.
He prefaces it "this is primarily for students; it is not a discussion in the philosophy of language or anything of the sort" (paraphrase. I know you don't use quotation marks, but heck, what else do you do?). You get what he promises: it is a discussion of the etymological journeys of some words he finds interesting. As a hint, for those of us who are not, in fact, Oxford dons, this does not necisarrily mean that these discussions will interest everyone. Some interesting stuff, mainly at the end where he gives you a mini lesson in criticism.
Phew, that was a dense book. I like Lewis, virtually everything he writes, and I did like this book. It was so thick, however, with citations, with Greek, with Latin, with French, with Old English, that it was like walking through three feet of mud. His insights as always were charming and full of wisdom.
Another fantastic book by Lewis. His expansive learning is showcased without ostentation and, while he is confused at times about his premises (i.e. what language is ultimately for and what makes the 'best' language), he sails over those difficulties with typical Lewis ease and alacrity. Important lessons to be learned here about how to be conscientious readers and critics of literature.
Remarkable the breadth of Lewis' reading - the book is filled with wit, virtue, philosophy, theology, and intellectual precision. Especially good are the chapters on Sad, Simple, World, Life, and the Fringe of Language.
I had to think a bit about my rating on this one, because frankly, it is a brilliant book, but also a book for the geek population. People interested in language will love it, people interested in philosophy or theology will really enjoy it. Personally, I loved it.
This is a wonderful and perceptive book that anyone should read who is interested in literary studies or the study of words/linguistics. Lewis brings wonderful clarity and depth to give almost always surprising and enlightening insight into the history of certain words.
An exceptional book on philology and methods written for intentional students in the subject. With only an amateur's interest, I spent much of the book realizing I had bitten off more than I could chew. Highly recommend to anyone interested in the study of words.
Heady. LOVE!!
