https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3713971-heart-of-the-west
Like many of you, I suspect, I read The Gift of the Magi and The Ransom of Red Chief in school, enjoyed them both, and then never gave O.
Most explore happy times, though death and sorrow do pay an infrequent visit.
More than once the folly of male/female relationships is explored with predictably humorous results.
Henry's greatness?
The ambient prairie, diversified by arroyos and murky patches of brush and pear, lay around us like a darkened bowl at the bottom of which we reposed as dregs.
Like a turquoise cover the sky pinned us there.
Lovely, huh?
Read and savour this man's writing.
Тези деветнадесет истории надзъртат в емоциите, които оцветяват живота на пионерите от американския Запад – а понякога изтъкават и самия вътък, който сплита в едно деянията им, и героичните, и раждащите смеха ни.Кралица на тези емоции без съмнение е любовта.
Със състезание по галантност, в което доскоро неразделни приятели сега седят от двете страни на една жена и се съревновават за чувствата ѝ, всеки по начина, който смята за по-удачен, но без да се възползва нечестно от отсъствието на другия (честта е важна съставка от тогавашния живот – дори неминуемите измами, които изобилстват във всяка територия, граничеща със закона, се подчиняват на неписани правила).
I have always heard about O. Henry, but had never read any of his works. This was an enjoyable romp through the Old West, with typical O. Henry type endings. Most of the books involve romance in some form or other, often with unexpected conclusions.The narrator was perfect for these stories. Just enough good ole boy accent, but not so much as to be distracting. The only bad thing I can say about this audiobook is that O. Henry loved to use unusual words in his stories & it is hard to stop &a
I have always heard about O.
Henry, but had never read any of his works.
This was an enjoyable romp through the Old West, with typical O.
Henry type endings.
Most of the books involve romance in some form or other, often with unexpected conclusions.The narrator was perfect for these stories.
The only bad thing I can say about this audiobook is that O.
Henry loved to use unusual words in his stories & it is hard to stop & look them when listening to a book.I received the audiobook version of this book from the narrator or publisher & chose to review it.
**3.5** Thes stories were nothing like my boy hood days of reading 'Larry & Stretch'. O. Henry is a complete logophile. He absolutely kept me at the dictionary (not that i retained any of these sesquipedalian words. Regardless, all of these short stories had some really nice elements of humour examining the diverse relationships between men and women.Partilarly liked 'The Pimienta Pancakes' - Alls fair in love and war. Trickery at its best.
Henry’s short stories back in 2010.
O. Henry’s endings are on a level with Agatha Christie’s for ingenuity, elan, and all around devilishness, only they are usually of an outrageously humorous nature, whereas Christie contents herself with being merely shockingly clever.All of the stories in Heart of the West are set in the west – mostly Texas.
They are humorous, but masterful; light-hearted yet deeply sincere.Conclusion.
Henry’s short stories to serious readers.
Heart of the West may not be the absolute best of Henry’s works, but it is a fair sampling.Visit The Blithering Bookster to read more book reviews!http://blitheringbookster.com/home/ca...
Henry's short stories that I have read, after which I can amply understand just why he is considered an American master - so much so that his name is still attached to an annual prize dedicated to the form.The opening 'Hearts and Crosses', to do with a lover's secret sign and the ownership of a cattle ranch, is a perfect story of its type, with an arresting first line, wonderful set-up and a pleasing, serendipitous ending.
Henry's writing is full of that grandly genteel dialogue, laced with outrageous slang such as 'cognocious', 'gaboozlum', 'masquerootin' and 'zizzaparoola', which s richly, uniquely American and a wonderful idiom for - as one of his characters puts it - "an amiable sort of hostility".I could have highlighted a few more stories too as all nineteen are very good.
O. Henry shows his use of the twist ending well here, with a strong showing for his sentimental side.The ending story is “The Reformation of Calliope”, in which a man who regularly gets drunk and shoots up the town is finally brought to heel by the one person in the world who he can’t fight.
This one’s a bit less sentimental and a bit more wry humor.In between, the most striking tale is “The Caballero’s Way”, a dark stinger about a Texas Ranger’s attempt to bring in the notorious outlaw known as the Cisco Kid. It’s the closest to the Western genre, and the cold-hearted, cunning villain of the story inspired a series of movies and television shows…where he’s the Robin Hood-style hero.
Henry, read my review of O.
. Go check it out, this book is 110 years old, my review won't exactly get any staler in the meantime.
Henry stories, all of which are set in or feature the American West at the turn of the 20th Century, back before paved interstates, when cowboy culture was at its peak and the Stetson Hat Company was still employing much of North Philadelphia.
I don't recall reading any of the stories in other more recent (like in the last 60 years) O.
Like Roads of Destiny, Heart of the West remains wonderfully readable 110 years later.
This is O Henry's second book of short stories. They take place in and around Texas, lots of mentions of San Antonio (where I used to live). A couple of stories at the beginning of the book were a little long (relative to other O. Henry stories). These stories are quick reads and its nice to just sit down for 5-10 minutes and read a quick one. They are funny little stories, not laugh-out-loud funny, but full of cute little phrases here and there. I read this book as part of a complete collection, its not the edition above.
It is seldom that I don't finish a book but in this case the labored, wordy writing became so tedious I couldn't bring myself to read beyond about halfway. I simply reached a point where Porter's (O. Henry) excessive use of obscure "big words" and "made up" words created, for me, such a distraction that I was having difficulty in maintaining an interest in the story.
The Ransom of Mack, a short story about two best friends always there for each other.
What to say about this book. Nineteen short stories about the west. O. Henry likes to use big words that need a dictionary for explaining and just truly make the story confusing. He talkes in riddles and you're sitting there after 3-4 pages wondereing what the heck is going on! I did like some of the stories (those I could understand)but most of them left you wondering what the real ending should be or what the whole point was in the first place. I understand he's very well liked buy I have to say...hum!
Henry, O.The Complete Works of O. HenryIn compilation only.1) Hearts and Crosses2) The Ransom of Mack3) Telemachus, Friend4) The Handbook of Hymen5) The Pimienta Pancakes6) Seats of the Haughty7) Hygeia at the Solito8) An Afternoon Miracle9) The Higher Abdication10) Cupid a la Carte11) The Caballero's Way12) The Sphinx Apple13) The Missing Chord14) A Call Loan15) The Princess and the Puma16) The Indian Summer of Dry Valley Johnson17) Christmas by Injunction18) A Chaparrel Prince19) The Reformation of Calliope
I am just now "discovering" O. Henry, who is well-known for being the most popular American short story writer ever. I won't even attempt a detailed description, let's just say his reputation is warranted a 1000 times!I have always loved Elmore Leonard and, in my opinion, O. Henry must have been a direct inspiration to him. I can also imagine a direct link with Stephen King's short stories.Very entertaining, thoughtful, funny... his use of vocabulary is hilarious. I think he probably makes up many of the words but it's mostly all great fun and easy to read.
A 1919 collection of 19 witty and often amusing short stories with the theme of the Wild West. Stories include cowboys, cattle trading, revolvers, long horse rides, bandits and romances. Written in a peculiar style of English, a Wild West style. Simple plots, easy reading.
Read my review at my blog.
First published 1907, Included in "Best Stories of O.Henry" qv.
O. Henry short stories from his years in the west. The stories are usually romances, sometimes predictable but alway packed with wonderful language.
Excellent reading - every story is a gem.
