https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7664334-amy-roger-s-epic-detour
This was a really nice read! I find that Morgan Matson does a great job of balancing a light hearted tone while also bringing in characters who are facing difficult situations. I think my favorite part of this book was just the road trip in general. It brought on a lot of nostalgia for different road trips I've been on! All around a nice summer read!
Reread AGAIN for #monthofmatson 2017I love this book so much. so so much. I am crying. I have a lot of emotions. I also am compelled to go on a cross-country road trip.Reread for #monthofmatson June 11-12 2015THIS BOOK. THIS FREAKING BOOK. It will always be one of my all time favorites. I am feeling all of the feels right now. ALL OF THEM.Reread for #monthofmatson May 4-May 11I LOVE AMY I LOVE ROGER I LOVE EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS BOOK OKAY? Okay.
DNF - I'm just going to quietly put this one aside.Everyone told me I should read Amy and Roger's Epic Detour after I tried Matson's Since You've Been Gone and didn't love it.
One person suggested on my review that maybe I just didn't relate to the characters and, you know, I think they might be right.Matson's characters read too young and immature for me.
Her female MCs are high school seniors or juniors, but they blush at things that wouldn't have made me blush at twelve.In this one, I never felt any chemistry between Amy and the shockingly-gorgeous Roger, but I think that was because Amy has the mental age of a young child.
Both Amy and Roger are amazing people who we see work through the problems they couldn’t have made their way through without each other.
They grow to trust and rely on each other on this road trip and have a great time making their way through California to Connecticut.The plan was for Roger to drive Amy to Connecticut in order to move to her new house.
Amy’s mother planned their trip down to the second, but neither of them want to follow the path with absolutely no fun and decide to take a detour and visit places they have wanted to visit as neither of them has traveled much.
whenever I see cream soda and rootbeer I'll remember Roger and Amy. The Big Bear itinerary made me want to go on a hike, and I don't even mountain hike, but I want to do that now.
The scrapbook pages were priceless, and overall Amy & Roger's Epic Detour was absolute perfection!This story has one of the best set of secondary characters I have ever read.
They made Roger and Amy's detour inspiring, exciting and enjoyable.
I loved how she took away Amy's camouflage and gave her back a bit of confidence.
I want it!!So pretty much I loved this book.
I suggest you stop what you're doing now and read this book.
NOW I WANT TO GO ON A ROAD TRIP WITH A CUTE BOY
I really enjoyed this book, I loved the way it was written, the flashback triggers, and the cool scrapbook aspect to it.
The story was just a little less cute and a little more emotional/sad than I wanted it to be.
I picked this up right after TFioS thinking it'd be all rainbows and sunshine to help pull me out of the sad state that book had thrown me into.
Then when things got better for Amy I was so happy but then before I knew it the book was over.
I JUST ALWAYS WANT THEM TO BE LONGER.
Amy and Roger who were only childhood acquaintances are forced to take a trip that would change their lives, both trying to mend broken hearts for entirely different reasons and with entirely opposite processes.
Virtual it may have been, but I had an amazing experience as the entire story is told in Amy’s point of view via her written record, sort of like a journal of the entire trip from California to Connecticut.
This felt long!”-???????????Speaking of my cute fun adorkable ways of saying things (and I hope you all know I am using the word “adorkable” ironically, because wow what a horrible word), the English translation of that series of question marks is “there were so many weird details in this book that I assumed would come back into play, because otherwise they were so random and strange and pointless that my entire existence would seem unnecessary, but then they didn’t and now my life on this planet is sans purpose.”-kind of flat charactersOr maybe they were just boring?
But it's a minor flaw.As for negatives, they are mostly genre-related - the story is fairly predictable, the characterization is basic and the dialog is not as interesting as it could have been.
(hide spoiler)] I wish this scene would never have been in the book, but I guess the genre requirements called for it?Anyway, what I am trying to say, is that after reading YA authors like Melina Marchetta, it's hard for me to sing praises to this particular YA novel.
But readers who enjoy sweet, inoffensive, wholesome stories written by Siobhan Vivian, Elizabeth Scott and Simone Elkeles, will definitely love this book.
But since I've been out here, on this trip...it is like I've started to remember what it is like.
To feel alive.
To feel anything.
And all I'm saying it that you never know how much time you have."I have being sitting here trying to think of what to say about this gorgeous book.
I’m not sure why I am finding it so difficult because I LOVED EVERYTHING about it.
So I think it is best that you read this book yourself (like right now!!!) to experience an unforgettable road trip .
4.75 starsI highly recommend this, especially to my southern hemisphere friends who have summer coming up!
LOVED IT! Full Review on YouTube: https://youtu.be/5q17Kn9DtF4
Amy and Roger discover more about themselves and each other, as they go off the regular path, and take a detour through the states, and through the trials of life...Although not quite as good as "Since You've Been Gone" (Five Stars!) I still really enjoyed this road trip of a book that was an emotional journey, as well as a journey through various American states...I was highly addicted throughout...I recommend the book vs the ebook due to all of the entertaining travel scrapbook illustrations/photos...this book will make you want to travel cross country ASAP...and the romance is slow and very sweet!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I can’t even begin to tell you how excited I was when my turn finally came up at the library. Mainly because . . . .  ROAD TRIP!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Oh how I love road trip books. Sadly I did not love this one so much, though. The main problem I had was that both the Amy and Roger characters had zero depth to them. Amy’s story revolves around grieving her father . . . by choosing to block out anything that makes her grieve her father. Roger’s
Oh how I love road trip books.
Although Roger and Amy’s lists were both a little too precious for my taste, everyone knows the second best part of a road trip is singing at the top of your lungs to errrrrrrrrrry song .
He doesn’t find excessive Sonic talk ridiculous™ at all.)The duo also go to the place where the people who live with me love .
There was also a lot of talk about the frozen custard from Freddy’s, but if you live here and are morbidly obese like me you know that you always choose Sheridan’s or Culver’s for that treat.
I wish there was half stars on this app!
I really felt that this was more of a 3.5 stars.
I had high expectations going into this book.
It was so well talked about and I absolutely loved morgan matson's other novel, "since you've been gone".
I wish I could say I was completely obsessed with this book but I just wasn't.
It wasn't bad by all means, I just found the story to be a bit slow paced and not gripping.
I couldn't quite find myself fully into it.
But it just didn't fully capture my attention.
Anyway, Amy and Charlie's (brother) mother decides she's moving them from California to Connecticut to where their grandma lives.
Amy stayed in California by herself for the last month of school and then her mom decides it would be cheaper for her to drive the Jeep Liberty out to Connecticut.
Amy got to meet some really nice people along the way through Roger and some they met together.
"Is that all you're eating?" he asked.They made a few stops for Roger that involved a girl and got some things settled in that situation.
This was a REALLY cute, sad at times, hilarious at others story of two teens on a road trip across the US.
Amy’s father has just died, her family is moving, and she’s been basically abandoned by a mom who has no idea how to parent in the wake of losing her spouse, a stoned brother dealing with massive guilt, and is suffocating under her own grief.
The relationship that slowly develops between Roger and Amy is cute to read, and I liked watching them both work through their issues.
A fun, rewarding read.
Please excuse typos/name misspellings.
Entered on screen reader.
LOVED THIS. Thought it was a really great depiction of road trips, didn't focus on the romance too much, had some great realistic darker undertones, had interesting characters and adventures.. REAL GOOD, GUYS.I did dock a star.. I'm having a lot of difficulties currently giving anything 5/5 stars.. I feel like it can't be handed out lightly!
4.75 starsThis was so so cute!! I loved all the road maps and pictures and the scrapbook and the playlists -- just everything!! So cute!! Also I didn't realize it at first but Amy and Charlie were in Since You've Been Gone!! Now I'm going to have to re-read it to find out more about Amy and Roger!! Loved the ending -- again I wanted more though T-TP.S. Now I want to go on a cross country road trip sooooo bad
I didn't buy her grief, it somehow felt contrived to me, her choking up, her chin-trembling and her sunglasses problem.Roger was, of course, just too good to be true and even his change of heart along the trip didn't exactly come out as natural.Fortunately, the story picked up quite nicely in the second part of the book and I have to say I was really charmed by all the little notes, pictures and addition to the story (a bit à la The Sky is Everywhere).
It ended quite abruptly in my opinion, I wanted to see the conflict between Amy and her mom developed more.All in all, a decent read but, as far as these "grief" books go, that deal with the death of a loved one OR/AND trips across America, I've read better this year.
There's nothing better than a love story that leaves you feeling as though you could quite comfortably lie there in your bed and hug the book and feel complete.
Kiss!' so often throughout the book, and I got all giggly whenever they got close (I know, I'm sounding like a schoolgirl here, but hey.
I loved the way Morgan Matson wrote the playlists into the story - it was really awesome to get a feel for the music and mood throughout the roadtrip.
Oh, and if you know any "Roger"'s, please don't hesitate to invite him, too.
It's not you, it's me. sorry to all, but this just wasn't the book for me.
First read: May 2014My first time rereading one of my favorite books and I am so happy right now. I love Amy & Roger's journey in this book. It's so unique, creative and fun. The personal things they are each walking through are relatable and so moving. It's fun, light and still poignant and heart-breaking at times. I haven't met another YA contemporary to date that has beat out A&R!
It is probably because there were a few small things that irked me, okay, this is going to sound really bad, but I think it dropped a star because of the romance.
Yep that’s basically the book in a nutshell.
I think my friends wanted to kill me by the end of the day, width="220" height="205" alt="description"/>I was planning to hitchhike on a whale to America (I live in Australia, no where to road trip), and following the path Amy and Roger took.
Very inspiring...Yep, hitchhiking to America on a whale to carry out a road trip.
I loved so many things about this book, but here are my top 3...1. Amy and Roger2. The little pictures and playlists3. THE ENDING
This book was amazing. If you take away anything from this review please take away how amazing it really was. Needless to say this is a great summer book. It's fun & it shows a story of a girl figuring out how to go on with her life and embrace herself after tragedy hits. Amy & Roger are amazing characters and I loved watching them progress in this book. Please go read this book....right now.
But anyway, Amy is not okay, and she's going in this trip with this guy she doesn't know much about [yet], while her family is all messed up.
Her mom had designed a route for them (Amy and Roger) to take to Connecticut but then they think: what if we change the route?
And now I would have given anything to be back there."You know, you may think that this book is just about two kids who fall in love during a trip together.
“The best discoveries always happened to the people who weren’t looking for them. Columbus and America. Pinzón, who stumbled on Brazil while looking for the West Indies. Stanley happening on Victoria Falls. And you. Amy Curry, when I was least expecting her.” Amy & Roger's Epic Detour was a book I didn't have many expectations in. With Morgan Matson I have had both a hit (The Unexpected Everything) and a miss (Second Chance Summer) with her books. However, I was pleasantly surprised with th
However, I was pleasantly surprised with the amount I smiled throughout the book as well as being like This story of a road trip through America (I honestly have no idea the size of America or how long it would take to get anywhere) about two individuals who don't know each other at all - Amy and Roger.
So, basically everything is falling about Amy's life and there is in no way in hell she wants to go on a road trip with someone she knew when she was a baby.
My other problem was the fact that the Roger was after another girl for 60% of the book and Amy kissed another guy?
LET'S GO ON A ROAD TRIP! Seriously. Let's go.Initial thoughts:1. Heavy (emotional) baggage? Check.2. Awkward sleeping arrangements? Check.3. Fun, light-hearted moments balanced with sad, personal heartache? Check.4. Cool photos, music playlists, and US states fun facts? Check.5. Relatable, realistic, and down-to-earth? Check.4.5 stars! Check out my book review here.
