https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3147367-american-lion
Instead, American Lion wants to make you understand Jackson the myth, Jackson the People's President, and how that Jackson managed to bend the Executive Power of our nation to his will.
Jackson's presidency was the first time that the office was seen in our modern light--as a strong office with its own power instead of merely a puppet of the Congress.
(If you think the mud-slinging in current political contests is bad, just take a look at Jackson's two runs for the White House.) We owe a lot of who we are as a country to Andrew Jackson's years in power.
Jon Meacham won a Pulitzer Prize for this biography of Andrew Jackson, America's seventh president.
Jackson was a man of his time, to be sure.When I learned the author was coming to my city to do a reading for his latest book, The Soul of America, I prepared for the event by reading Jon Meacham's books about Andrew Jackson and Thomas Jefferson.
Reading the biographies of Jackson and Jefferson back to back provided some interesting insights into America's founding and early decades.
And if you're ever in Nashville, I do recommend visiting Jackson's home.Opening Passage"It looked like war.
Therefore, at best, the victory was a tragedy.2) Later, while still serving in the military, without any orders to do so, seized what is now Florida for America.
Let the reader know the good and the bad and let us decide if he was a monster or a hero.I would like to think Meacham didn't include the necessary facts because he is incompetent but I fear that it was all purposeful propaganda garbage.
Here's my impression of 75% of the book: "How dare you, sir!" "No, how dare you, sir!" with lots of "hrumphs" thrown in for good measure.Please avoid this work at all costs and if you see Jon Meacham call him foul names for me.
Um, did you know Andrew Jackson was a huge badass? He was also sort of a jerk. And he invented the Democratic party basically. Plus he was not very cool to the Native Americans.
"Jackson was a transformative president in part because he had a transcendent personality"- Jon Meacham, American LionA solid history of a complicated man.
One of the more influential Presidents, Jackson can and should be both praised and condemned.
In many ways, he epitomized our young nation.
Problematic, in the extreme, in regards to Native Americans and slaves, energetic, complicated, narcissistic, driven, and not to be trifled with.
Jackson is often revered by Presidents who want to appear both populist and strong.
Jackson, however, is no Trump.
He was brutal to anyone who stood in his way.
tyrant, despot, usurper; destroyer of the liberties of his country; rash ignorant, imbecile; endangering the public peace with all foreign nations; destroying domestic prosperity at home..."While some of you may be assuming I have quoted a contemporary political commentator, and our current political climate has certainly taken on the dizzying aspects of a three ringed circus, I am in fact quoting Thomas Hart Benton, a devoted partisan to Andrew Jackson who is describing "Old Hickory's" enemies, of which there was no shortage.Surprisingly, thirty years earlier, during the War of 1812, Benton was one of those enemies who got into such a fierce altercation with then General Jackson, that they tried to kill each other in a duel.Ron Meacham's excellent biography of one of our most controversial presidents does not record Jackson's life before becoming the seventh president of the United States but starts with his first years after becoming president.
And his demogoguery is at its fullest when he convinces himself that he is acting in the best interests of the indians, indeed, as their protecting father -- even as he subjected them to the horrors of a 19th century 'ethnic cleansing'.Meacham explores some of the effects of Jackson's populism on the quality of political discourse during his first election.
I might also say that this book focuses on Jackson's years in the White House, 1829 to 1836.
It is a compliment to Meacham that I now want to locate a good biography describing Jackson's years before the White House.
So for those who have never read Marquis James or Robert Remini's multi-volume depiction of Jackson, the first 180 pages of this book read like a season story arch of a prime time soap opera.
The "Eaton Affair" was a very central topic of Jackson's first term of presidency, but to understand why it was such a central focus, you need to know more about Jackson and his hard-line approach to loyalty (especially to a wife) - and Meacham just isn't able to explain Jackson's pre-White House years in just a few paragraphs.
I don't think anyone would come out and say that the ends justify the means, but while Jackson is critiqued for his treatment of the natives or Mexicans inhabiting the land, ultimately he's revered for securing the land.
Yes, at the time many people did not care about the lives of black slaves and native americans and we have evolved.
Jackson and his allies (which included most American men in the government north and south) knew this was wrong, but they cared more about power and land so they used arguments about racial inferiority and divine right to justify their cruel and self-serving actions.
But even compared to the standards of the time, Jackson was cruel and power-hungry.
Given current events, this book is timely to read. Jackson did some terrible things, most particularly the treatment of Native Americans. But he also kept the Union together in the face of huge dissent. Of course, that only delayed the Civil War and kept another generation in chains.The big takeaway is that no matter his faults, his primary concern was for the country and the people. If only modern politicians would do so, rather than focusing on their own enrichment and egos.
Not too often and not too long but it did happen!I decided to read this book now in an effort to understand Mr. Trump's apparent admiration for Andrew Jackson.
At the end of the book the author talks about obtaining access to some of the material for the first time.Reading this book at the beginning of the Trump presidency was fascinating.
One third of the book is footnotes which surely is one way the author is trying to say believe me.
But the author also acknowledges that many of his sources were the papers and letters of the people and family immediately surrounding Jackson.
While a terrifically thorough listing of the era's political issues and the personalities clashing over them, the examination left much to be desired.
The substance falls victim to a regular temptation among American authors writing American history.
Meacham's approach only acknowledges in passing the character flaws of his subject while amplifying the qualities and deeds that would make Jackson a hero to many.
For instance, Jackson's unrepentant slave-ownership and his role in devastating generations of Native Americans is mentioned, but not explored to the degree these positions deserve.
Blind nationalism makes a poor substitute for history, and American Lion is no exception.
While not a typical biography that thoroughly traces the man's life from cradle to grave, Meacham does a wonderful job working through the White House years of Andrew Jackson, peppering the narrative with flashbacks and poignant backstories to better depict those eight years as America's political leader.
Used effectively in 1828 to secure the South, Calhoun became too outspoken in the latter years of Jackson's first term in office and tried to bring the president to his knees for daring to flex his muscle against South Carolina.
I am on a quest to read at least one book about each of the 45 presidents.
(Yes, even Trump).I learned alot about Jackson as I read this.Rather than enumerate what I learned, please read this book to find out for yourself.This book primarily covers the years of Jackson's presidency 1829 - 1837.I was happy to learn about the more personal aspects of Jackson's life.Some of what happened during his presidency was not quite so engaging.
(Good, but just a litany of facts of what happened).Suffice it to say, Jon Meacham is an engaging and excellent writer.
http://thehill.com/homenews/administr...
A mini biography of Jackson's time as president. I have come to admire what good he did accomplish, although his beliefs in Indian removal and slavery will always mark him as an imperfect man.
I like Jon Meacham better than I do Andrew Jackson.
Even so, he was a stubborn leader with fixed views; and like most absolutists, he would not recant and forged ahead with his determined programs, thereby saving the Presidency and ultimately the nation as the future would prove.
(You can say a thing but not do it; but Meacham explains with his usual thorough scholarship how Jackson really meant this.)The star that Jackson followed was the Union with the people in charge—and nothing less.
If it hadn’t been for Jackson, Meacham suggests, Abraham Lincoln as we know him may never have been able to truly save the union.
He tried to include "dirt" as well as personal decisions that Jackson had to face during his presidency, but because he tries to cover such a wide range, we are left with only superficial scratchings on most of it.I think if he had concentrated on just one of the issues, like the issue of a Federal Bank or perhaps on some of the social scandals regarding his "adopted" family, then the book would be far better.Instead, it becomes hard to follow as characters in the book come and go, with only occasional passages to describe them.
I'm thinking it is only because of recent pop histories like 1776 this book received such honors.
Andrew Jackson is a President who doesn't get a lot of attention in the overall scheme of things.
Most people remember him from the Battle of New Orleans in the War of 1812 but don't seem to know much about his Presidency.........and a lot was happening during his eight years as the seventh POTUS.The book concentrates solely on his years in the White House with limited information about his background and what shaped his personality and ideas.
The writing runs the gamut from dry as dust to extremely interesting and informative, so it is hard to know where to put this book on a rating scale.
Not an antithesis to the "Jackson is genocidal war criminal!" narrative, but a rather balanced approach to the guy, focusing mainly on his terms of office and placing him in the context of his time.
I thought Meacham did an excellent job of presenting Jackson in a balanced way, both vices and virtues.What amazed me the most was that I had heard about "The Petticoat Affair," but - as Meacham described its evolution and progression - it was really the most encompassing, polarizing and lolzy political scandal I've ever read about.
DC society bitches be cray.Since the book mainly focuses on his administration, this scandal really does take up a share of time and attention and it is hilarious.
I was excited to read this book, so it was especially disappointing to discover how poorly written it is. I only got through about 75 pages before giving up. The narration bounces around in time, skips over areas I think are important and goes into too much detail about other things. I know the book is supposed to focus on his presidency but I need to know more about him as a person to appreciate that and this just wasn't doing it for me. Bah.
American Lion is a biography on Andrew Jackson, the seventh president of the United States.
There is not much detail on Jackson’s life before his presidency; it mostly focuses on his two terms in office.
I learned a lot about this period of American history.
There were many firsts and much drama that occurred during Jackson’s presidency: the petticoat affair, the longest Indian war, the first president to be physically attacked, and the list goes on.
I didn’t feel like I got to know Jackson as a person, however, because this book mostly focuses on what is happening around him and not so much on Jackson himself.

This is a good history of Andrew Jackson and his time in the White House.
Meacham does a good job narrating how Andrew Jackson came into his power to become president arising out of poverty and tells the story of his 8 years in the White House.
The Trail of Tears with the Indian removal was a bleak time in our country and showed Jackson at his worst.
However, Jackson acted by an inner guide because he believed our nation needed a stronger executive to protect the country from the bureaucracy and moneyed interests.
There were moments, Abraham Lincoln argued during the Civil War, when `measures otherwise unconstitutional might become lawful by becoming indispensable to the preservation of the Constitution through the preservation of the nation.' It was a Jacksonian way of looking at the world." (p.48-9)As I said in my review of Remini's book on Jackson: there is a dark side to populism.
Had Jackson backed down to South Carolina's demand it would have been the death of the Constitution of the United States."A different, less emotionally nationalistic president in these middle years of the Republic might not have been able to balance the forces of respect for the essential rights of the states with a devotion to the causes of the Union.
Meacham portrays Jackson as shrewd, stubborn perhaps to a fault, and fiercely patriotic.Jackson’s first term was overshadowed by the Eaton affair, a scandal involving the wife of his secretary of war, John Eaton, which eventuated the resignation of his entire Cabinet and left Jackson open to criticism of his moral judgment.
He took serious political risk to dissolve the National Bank - a controversial and unpopular move.Meacham is less detailed and somewhat circumspect about two areas to which Jackson’s legacy is perhaps most vulnerable - slavery and the Indian question.
Clearly Jackson opposed the abolition of slavery and his policies led to the tragic Trail of Tears one year after he left office.
When I decided that it was about time that I filled in the gaps in my knowledge of antebellum American history in general and the Jacksonian era, in particular, I was tickled to find the Pulitzer Prize winning “American Lion” there to help launch me on my journey.
What the reader learns is that there was an issue surrounding the United States Bank Charter, tariffs and infrastructure expenditures, where Jackson stood on those issues in the sense of “were he fer’ ‘em or again’ ‘em” and that, given this position…..well……what Andrew Jackson wanted, Andrew Jackson got.
And let's face it - even the best books are long stretches of necessary dull with occasional points of brilliance) - Finally picked up it again maybe 8 or 9 months ago, after finally finishing the Henry Clay book (another book I was really happy to own that sat on my shelf for years) and started gamely making my way through it.
The biography of Henry Clay, a guy who also did things his own way, and who was a MUCH better politician overall, was a lot better, but he never got to be president, so no one cares.
This book is specifically more about Jackson's personal relationships during his tenure in the White House as opposed to a political biography. As such, it paints a much rosier picture of the man than is usually put to canvas. A lot of time is spent on the Donelsons and the Eatons, and detailing Jackson's love of family. It's interesting to see how such a seemingly kind man, when dealing with those that he loved, could have been so cruel and vicious to so many others.
American Lion by Jon Meacham shows the amazing nuances which accompanies any sincere look at history.
I must admit I was unaware as to why someone like himself would find such an honored place in our history until I read American Lion.
Regarding the Native Americans, reading American Lion can help you understand Jackson's perspective, even if you don't agree with it, as we all would not.
American Lion is a great addition to my ever-growing list of American history books.
There is plenty to learn from Andrew Jackson and American Lion is a great place to learn it.
