https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/523368.Fallen_Into_the_Pit
The veterans of the fighting were, then as now, seen off with a wave and a pusillanimous "good luck!" from their erstwhile "superiors."One of those veterans figures in the book as suspect, as well as one point on a love triangle, and strangely enough the schoolmaster-cum-confidant to the peculiarly prominent son of the nominal sleuth.
Neither father nor son Felse is at all convinced of Doolally Veteran Dude's desire to murder either victim.
It just keeps getting fatter, but better my project than me!Ellis Peters is a pseudonym of Edith Pargeter, a British author who is best known for her Chronicles of Brother Cadfael historical mystery series.
I don't recall reading any mysteries set in Wales before.In 1963, the author won the Edgar Award for the second book in the Felse series.
Being incapable of starting a series anywhere but at the beginning, I had to read Fallen Into the Pit before I read the Edgar winning Death and the Joyful Woman.In a Welsh mining town just after WWII, a German ex-POW and ex-Nazi, a cruel coward and anti-semite, was found murdered in an area of deserted mine shafts.
The surprise pick of the week for me!
Why surprised?
I was rewarded by a delightful little murder mystery that left me wanting more!
I have immediately discovered that this is not an easy desire to gratify as the library doesn't have most of the series (a few more as e books) and they are out of print.
If you ever can't find what you want I guarantee one of these will fecth you a good, clean, second-hand copy, usually from the US.
Do look at all available copies, though, as the postal charges vary wildly and it's often better to pay a little more for the book and a lot less for the postage :P
Maybe I'll come back to it.I picked this up for a reading challenge category (woman author with male pseudonym).
But the level of detail is stupefying, I have to stop an unravel sentences to get their meaning on a regular basis, and the unpleasant characters are really unpleasant.
Maybe my tolerance for reading racist and anti-Semitic language is just at a low.
It fits the character, but it hits like a sledgehammer.
I would get through that if the rest of it were easier to read, but it's not.
Over all I prefer the Brother Cadfael series, just to get that said and put aside.
Deep themes, good characters, interesting setting, a smart kid who wasn't a smart aleck (American writers take note!).
I forgot I was reading Peters sometimes and thought it was a Christie book, altho the lack of wry humor brought me back to reality.
And with the kids so deeply involved in the story, the book also had a whiff of Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew.
In the meantime, I'll pick up a Brother Cadfael.
Good beginning to a series, not a cozy read, well done book.
Well done! Even better than Cadfael, in my opinion.
I read maybe five chapters and quit.
He caused some trouble where he worked and was sent to work on a farm owned by an Englishman and his wife, who was Jewish and German.
That's when I decided I really did not want to spend my time reading this book.
I thought that I would try it since I really did like the Brother Cadfael Series by Ms. Peters.
I did not like this subject at all.
However, it was the first of the series and I always like to start at the beginning.
The first of the George Felse mysteries (my favorite Peters–I’ve never taken to Cadfael). A kind of sad and uneasy story. Beautifully written—I especially like Chad. And, of course, Dominic. Bunty and George don’t get quite as developed as in later books. [June 2010]
After growing up with Agatha Christie's take on the English detective novel, discovering Edith Pargeter's sublime The Heaven Tree as an adult, and finding Brother Cadfael intriguing but failing to make a mark, my book whisperer challenged me to read the Felse Investigations.And so I arrived here, in the village of Comerford, and found it delightful!From the get go, Peters writes of the post-WWII trauma.
Perhaps because we've launched one son and have two tweening, Peters' development of the family relationships (in a very English way and English context) were particularly brilliant to me.
Somewhat disappointing.
The book starts out fine because the author writes so well, however, then came the big mistake IMO.
Instead of it being a Sergeant Felse mystery, it is dominated by his 13-year old son, Dominic and his friend, Pussy.
(Don't ask me what I think of that nickname.) I really do not like books which rely on the precocious ingenuity of children.
It devolves into, 'See the teenager do his stuff,' and has the prerequisite danger for the child.
Meh!
Hopefully, the series improves in later books, since her Cadfael series is one of my all-time favorites.
I suppose she needed the length to accomodate all the twists and turns she wanted to throw in, but none of the characters were particularly sympathetic except Felse and Son--which I'm sure was intentional, as well.
Dominic Felse as the 13 yr old sleuth smacked more than a little of Nancy Drew or one of the Famous Five, with "Pussy" as his Girl Friday.
The "surprise" ending took a bit too long in coming, and I have to say I had the baddy taped about halfway through the novel.
For my birthday this year, my family bought me a copy of each of the Felse Family Investigations, and I’m reading through them again in order.
What a delight!Reading this masterpiece for probably the fourth time, I’m amazed that Ellis Peters (nom de plume of Edith Pargeter) was seemingly able to create it out of whole cloth.
I know that EP had written other good mysteries before this to perfect her craft, but you don’t expect the first in a series to have everything–fascinating characters, unsolvable twisty mystery plot (yet all the clues are there), thoughtful dialogue, hauntingly beautiful English setting–all sprung fully formed like Athena from Zeus’ head.I wouldn’t want anything changed, and even though I already know what’s going to happen, I can’t wait to read what George, Bunty, and Dominic are going see, say, and do next.
I listened to this as a Recorded Books audiobook, read by Simon Prebble - one of my favorite narrators.
I have long loved the Ellis Peters Brother Cadfael books, but had never read any of the Inspector Felse series.
This is book 1 in that series, and I liked it very much.
It was first published in 1951 and is set in Britain after WWII.Although Inspector George Felse, his wife Bunty and their 13-year-old son are featured in this story, it really seems to revolve around the teenaged boy, with his cleverness in unraveling a mystery as well as what might be deemed the reckless sense of safety that the young might feel.
I'll be reading and listening to more of this series.
I'm giving this a 5 (a 4.65) star, because it's so much more than just a mystery. The characters are so deftly written that I can see them clearly, especially the main villain of the piece, the victim himself. Peters draws him without a trace of pity; she shows no mawkish sentimentality about his childhood or empathy for his background. In these days when we've gone so full circle that it's scary to contemplate telling the truth as we see it because of the fear of being labelled as uncaring (or worse!), it's refreshing to see evil described as evil.
The small village of Comerford is trying to come to terms with the end of the war and integrating the returning men back into the lives they left when it is rocked by a murder. Much darker than the Cadfael series but well plotted with interesting characters (including a couple of youngsters who are precocious but believable). I listened to the audio version read by one of my all time favorites narrators Simon Prebble
This is an EXCELLENTLY written book. I can't STAND the nazi character who later is the murder victim. He's too real and I got pissed of while I was reading. Sometime's a person is too real when you read them.
Peters is an excellent writer and I am delighted to find a new series to read this summer. I am giving it 3 stars because this isn't great literature just a very well-written diversion.
Ms. Peters, ie Ms. Pargeter, crafts unbelievable characters, over-explains, and over-describes.
However, her novels do all seem very British, so I guess she has that going for her.I suppose I'm more of a fan of mystery writers like Chandler or novel writers like Steinbeck.
They keep it spare by describing what's necessary, and they intensify the mystery as a result.
Peters isn't necessarily florid in her writing, but she tells you literally everything her main characters are thinking and feeling.
It isn't even really that he's precocious, it's that he gnaws on the plot line until it's threadbare and see-through.
Basically we have a small English village a few years after WW2.
One of the latter, a handsome poisonous creature gets himself murdered and is discovered by the 13 year old son of the local policeman.
Together they find the murderer.
The story's strength is its depiction of a time and feeling very rarely discussed, post war Britain with all its unrest, uncertainty and disappointed expectations.
The description of village life, the landscape, the inner feelings of the characters are shown brilliantly.
Once you hit the slower rhythm the story becomes compelling.
Ah, Ellis Peters.
The author of the Brother Cadfael mysteries sets the Felse Investigations series in Comerford, a village in the coal mining districts of England, shortly after World War II.
Helmut is a former POW who has chosen to stay in England after the war, but his Nazi past reveals itself in many small ways that upset the close-knit community and ultimately leads to his murder.
The story is told primarily through Dom's eyes, with contributions from Sergeant Felse, Dom's mother, his schoolmaster, a Jewish woman who is threatened by Helmut, and various other villagers.
A must for Ellis Peters fans and a good starting place for new readers.
I'm a longtime fan of Peters' Cadfael mysteries who had run out of Cadfaels, so I decided to try an earlier novel of hers.
It took a few pages to get into the diction of the 1950s -- she occasionally employs a turn of phrase that has fallen out of use -- but in the end I thought the book was excellent.
Now, the mystery itself ends up being a little bit predictable, especially if you are used to Ellis Peters.
The book is about chad Wedderton, a war hero, who teaches classics at the village school...in Comerford.
When Chad returns from the war, he assumes an anti-violence persona, confusing the locals, since they expect a war hero to never shirk necessary acts of violence.
But Wedderton isn't easily riled, though the boys in his class constantly try his patience, and learn quickly he is steadfast in his resolve against violence.A prisoner of war, a German, is murdered in the woods, and many suspect Mr. Wedderton.
The German prisoner of war was not exactly a likeable man.
A new series for me.
Battered and torn the set arrived in the charity book shop where I help and I brought them home.
This is the first in the series, a good mystery with very real and in depth characters.
The main character, Dominic Felse, son of George the local police sergeant sets himself, with his friend, the task of solving an unpleasant murder of a very unpleasant person.
In parts it reads like a children`s adventure story, but this is clearly intentional as there are many books to follow, and presumably Dominic will grow up.
I read several Felse stories in my teens, and much preferred them to the Cadfael series, to which I could never connect.
When I started this one, I quickly realised it was not one I'd read before, and then learned it was her very first mystery novel, period.
There was much about it that brought back memories of why I liked the later Felse stories, but I'm never a big fan of precocious, self-important tweens as lead protagonists in this sort of story.
So I give it a bare passing grade, in recognition of the fact that it was her first attempt.
Reading this book for only the second time, after having read countless other books by Ellis Peters in the decades since I first discovered them, I am struck by how little difference there is in the writing, from this, her first book, to the very latest ones.
And I mean that in a good way.
Characters start right on being fully fleshed and three-dimensional, and the keep, loving insight into human nature and the realities of life are right there from the beginning, to be built on through the years and the ever-expanding cast of characters.
Ellis Peters was a wonderful writer.
This book, penned in the 1950's, could have been a 3 star for me had it not been painfully slow to get into the plot. It's also more of a YA murder mystery than what I'd expected, but that's forgivable. Why I rounded down to two stars was the wooden and stilted prose, and characters that just were difficult to connect with. There are better British mysteries from the period, but fans of the author will probably disagree. Just wasn't my "cuppa tea."
I loved the Brother Cadfael series, so when I discovered Peters’ series about George Felse and his family, I was delighted. This book was a trifle wordy for my taste, and the mystery was pretty easy to figure out, but the characters (always the most important element to me) are wonderful. I look forward to reading the next book in this series.
Starts off very description heavy, picks up about halfway through. I don’t mind having spent the time, but don’t think I’d try to convince anyone else to keep at it if they were finding it tough going
I can't say I enjoyed this book, but it is very well written. It is as much about the impact of traumatic events on people and communities as it is a murder mystery. Also, the first murder victim was so unpleasant it was a shame anyone had to be convicted of his murder.
Ellis Peters, aka Edith Pargeters, deceased since 1995, was a prolific mystery writer with well developed characters, beautifully expressive descriptions and believable characters without unnecessary gore. I may have found my favorite mystery writer of all time!
