https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135444.Literature_and_Evil

Ανάλυση και θέση δίχως δισταγμούς και άλλες σκέψεις. Βρίσκει τον τρόπο να ανασύρει στοιχεία που θα σε κάνουν να προβληματιστείς και να αναζητήσεις μια δική σου θεώρηση για τη θεματολογία.
Rather, he focuses on a particular notion of “evil” and on the work of seven particular writers: Emily Bronte, Charles Baudelaire, Jules Michelet, the Marquis de Sade, William Blake, Marcel Proust, Franz Kafka and Jean Genet.Literature and Evil is more a work of philosophy or critical theory than a conventional instance of literary criticism and analysis.
Indeed, Bataille’s unsystematic approach is reflected in the way that he discusses different writers in the context of different critical approaches: Michelet in terms of anthropology, Blake in terms of Jungian psychology, Kafka in terms of Marxism, etc.
"Though poetry may trample verbally on the established order, it is no substitute for it." (29) A fascinating collection of eight essays (on Emily Brontë, Baudelaire, Michelin, William Blake, Sade, Proust, Kafka, and Genet) that (ostensibly) centers on the notion of evil in literature, but which touches on many other themes like freedom, eroticism, death, violence, childhood, impotence, and so on. The main point that Bataille sets out to prove is that literature is a return to childhood, albeit
"Though poetry may trample verbally on the established order, it is no substitute for it." (29)
A fascinating collection of eight essays (on Emily Brontë, Baudelaire, Michelin, William Blake, Sade, Proust, Kafka, and Genet) that (ostensibly) centers on the notion of evil in literature, but which touches on many other themes like freedom, eroticism, death, violence, childhood, impotence, and so on. The main point that Bataille sets out to prove is that literature is a return to childhood, albeit not an innocent one; his essay on Kafka was the most convincing in this respect. Worth revisiting.
There's a grand seriousness, teetering on the edge of ridiculousness, which is possible in French but not in English.
Granted, Bosie's translation can't help, but why else did Wilde write all those witty works in English and then the incantatory and half-absurd Salome in French?
Who, much to my surprise, turns out not to take some of his subjects half so seriously as they'd like.
He sees through Genet's bullshit, and is probably one of the first to note that de Sade is often at least as boring as he is disgusting (his further brilliant insight - that the 120 Days* is best considered in the same light as a monk's devotional work, rather than modern literature, is not one I recall seeing adopted elsewhere).
Στη συγκεκριμένη μελέτη ο Bataille, ενσωματώνοντας στο έργο του απόψεις του Sartre, αναλύει τις βασικές αρχές του έργου των Baudelaire, Blake, Sade, Proust και Genet.
Με κριτική ματιά, δε διστάζει να κατακρίνει τις υφολογικές και νοηματικές πρωτοτυπίες των προαναφερθέντων, ενώ ταυτόχρονα ο διάλογος που αναπτύσσεται ανάμεσα στα όσα έχουν γραφτεί ήδη από τον Sartre και στα όσα γράφει, ως έμμεση απάντηση, ο Bataille καταδεικνύει, με έναν συναρπαστικό τρόπο, το σημείο που συγκλίνουν, ή και αποκλίνουν, δύο τόσο ενδιαφέροντες άνθρωποι του πνεύματος.
Η παρούσα έκδοση δεν περιλαμβάνει, δυστυχώς, τις μελέτες του Bataille πάνω στη λογοτεχνία της Brontë, του Michelet και του Kafka.
It is guilty and should admit itself so.""I believe that man is necessarily put up against himself and that he cannot recognise himself and love himself to the end unless he is condemned.""It is to this purpose that we put the arts: they manage, on the stage, to arouse in us the highest possible degree of anxiety… evoke these derangements, these lacerations, this decline which our entire activity endeavours to avoid.""Laughter teaches us that when we flee wisely from the elements of death, we merely want to preserve life.
There is in it an element of disorder and excess which goes as far as to endanger the life of whoever indulges in it.”This only refers to the chapters on Emily Bronte, Baudelaire, William Blake, Sade, Proust and Kafka.
The opening chapter on Emily Bronte is curious as it barely refers to Wuthering Heights, the only book she wrote.
It’s a shame that Emily Bronte & Baudelaire were used for exposition, as they’re both very interesting writers, because the book improves significantly once Bataille is done with them.
Realmente fiquei com a cueca molhada quando estava a ler os capítulos da Brontë e do Baudelaire.
O capítulo sobre o Sade é desconcertante, porque nunca me tinha debruçado sobre a sua vida/obra por questões de disponibilidade.
Pensar a vida toda que se perdeu um manuscrito, tal como o Herberto terá perdido um manuscrito no comboio da linha de Cascais (não sei até que ponto isto é realmente verdade, conta-se por aí), é perder um filho?
Que bom que existe o Mal e a transgressão para me molharem as cuecas e fazerem o Bataille escrever bem e torrencialmente.
Así abre este libro de ensayos George Bataille, escritor francés, al que leo por primera vez.
Desde que vi el título de este libro en El Péndulo, tuve inquietud por leerlo.
Yo pensaba haber comprado un libro de ensayos literarios, y al encontrarme con el primero sobre Emily Brontë y Cumbres Borrascosas, por un instante pensé que me había equivocado.
Parecía más un libro de filosofía, y para rematar con una última confesión, odio la filosofía (odiar es extremo, más bien es un tema que no suelo leer).
Sin embargo, Bataille nos introduce en el tema, sobre la representación del mal a través de la literatura.
despre raul in literatura vorbeste din perspectiva raului per se, ca opus Binelui, nu ca rau tangential unei necesitati (de exemplu, dorinta de a supravietui poate impinge la acte precum furtul uni paini, crima intr-o situatie limita, etc).
2. noteaza ca perioada copilariei diferitilor autori are un impact fundamental asupra devenirii lor ca scriitori, incapsuland fatete ale raului.
Baudelaire ramane de mic fara tata iar recasatoria mamei il alunga, rupand legatura speciala formata intre cei doi.
Michelet cunoaste saracia si viata grea, la fel ca Blake, fiu unui comerciant de panzeturi confruntat de mic cu duritatea existentei.
This book surely left a good impression of Bataille in me.
His ability to link so many authors from different ages, united by this exploration of evil as being one of the proofs for the lack of innocence in literature is remarkable.I would say I was more lost with some parts because definitely Genet isn't an author I have read.
I would say that at least, there was a distinction very important to make that I was leaving out: our capacity to still become horrified with so much violence in a single book has to mean something.
As much as I enjoy the idea of transgression (which bataille and mischievous others infamously espoused), I can't help but think that in today's world-at-large, where everything is permitted (as long as someone is profiting off of it) and porn is a common coming of age activity for pre-teens, transgression has lost a lot of its teeth.
And yet...'story of the eye' still seems well, shocking and fucked up in an enticing way.
So I dug into the most interesting lesser known bataille title available through the library.
It didn't disappoint, however, the idea of what is 'evil' seems somewhat limiting again, through today's shock-fest lense.
'nemir je bitan, to je smisao ove knjige. ali vreme je da se dosegne jasnoca saznanja.vreme je...ponekad se chak chini da vremena nema. u svakom sluchaju, vreme nas pozhuruje.ovi ogledi rezultat su napora koji sam ulozhio da bih dokonao smisao knjizhevnosti...knjizhevnost je neshto bitno, ili nije nishta. zlo - jedan zhestok oblik Zla - chiji izraz predstavlja knjizhevnost, ima za nas, verujem, suverenu vrednost. ali ovo gledishte ne nalazhe odsustvo morala, ono zahteva 'hipermoral'.'emili brontebodlermishleblejksadprustkafkazhene
The nature of evil in literature by one of the most evil men alive - Georges Bataille. Well, I don't thnk he was evil, but he for sure was sexy in a really dirty way. He was also a great critic and a wonderful stylist of a writer. Bataille rules!
Denso en cuanto a ideas, sencillo en cuanto a estilo. Muy buen prólogo de Rafael Conte. Espero seguir con Bataille, con "El erotismo".
Posiblemente, lo mejor que he leído en mucho tiempo.
La tesis más o menos es la siguiente: la religión y el arte son formas de soportar, camuflar, el desgarramiento del instante.
A través de diversos autores, todos ellos malditos y con una particular relación con el Mal, Bataille va conformando un cuadro en el que se dibujan las diversas trabas que los autores se han puesto a sí mismos al querer alcanzar la soberanía.
Esas trabas, develan una ausencia, que precisamente es la muestra de un exceso ilimitado: la comunicación fuerte, que siempre que sea literatura, y sólo siendo poesía lo es, aparece como problema irresoluble.
Çeşitli edebi eserler üzerine güçlü yorumlar olsa da neye göre yorumladığı noktası net değil. Kötülük tanımı üzerinden yazarların ne yaptığını anlatmaya çalışıyor fakat kötülük nedir, hangi bağlamda kullanılmış, hangi zemine oturtulmuş muallak.
intervista a George Bataillehttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7uGmFC...Un autore assolutamente da leggere.
"C’è in noi qualcosa di appassionato, di generoso e di sacro che oltrepassa le rappresentazioni dell’intelligenza: noi siamo umani appunto per questa eccedenza." (p. 132)
Literature is evil because it is against purpose.
If work is perceived as useful time spent, writing is futile, and therefore, evil.
Writers feel guilty about their "waste" of time.
- this seems French)Bronte - cursed, mysticism Baudelaire - "denial of good is a denial of the primacy of the future"Blake - energy and momentum of the universeSade - passion and energy and "a universe which degrades gradually and systematically, which tortures and destroys the totality of the beings which it presents." Proust - justice, truth, and passion - Evil and Good must coexist in order to better avoid indifference - Fuck the PoliceKafka - the refutation of effective activity - Death is the only means of avoiding abdication of sovereignty (The Trail, The Verdict) Theme of accepting death as larger than life - greater than the self.
Amazing book,Bataille's fasciating views on literature and excess and freedom of movement across var
Utter shit. As literary criticism it makes half decent toilet paper. Also illustrates some of the worst tendencies of French intellectuals. I can't believe the respect this man received from Foucault, Barthes and Sontag amongt others. Colin McCabe says he is possibly the most important French Intellectual of the 20th Century. More important than Gide, Camus, Sartre, Proust, De Bouvoire or Aron? Bollocks.
Bataille works through the connection between Literature and Evil in a number of essays on literary figures.Literature is Evil because it transgresses the rile and order of the Good. Literature is an excess, a work that is of no labour value. It takes the human beyond the human and opens the space for something new; something sovereign; something beyond good and evil.
Bataille focuses less on literature and more on the writer. Is the writer evil? Are they inseparable from what they create? You can learn a lot about Blake's, Kafka's and Sade's personal lives, but what about their works? This reads like a biography rather than a study of literature. The title is misleading.
This was the only Bataille available at my neighborhood used-book store. I read Story of the Eye many years ago, and although I was always intrigued by Bataille, I hadn't actively sought out his other works. I enjoyed Literature and Evil, but I'm not sure this is the best re-introduction.
well, I didn't quite finish it. Some sections, like the one on Charlotte Bronte and Kafka were much better than others, but I don't quite buy Bataille's thesis that literature is evil and childish and he stacks the deck by his chapters on Sade, Genet and Baudelaire. His chapter on Proust seemed superficial. Still it was worth perusing.
Of the many books by the obsessive Bataille I read over the years (including Story of the Eye — ICK!) — this small book of essays on "evil" literature is my favorite. It's Bataille without the tears of eros.
loved it!
Should be taught in every literature program.
