https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1053319.Iron_Coffins
Iron Coffins completed the picture, and showed both the early phase of the battle, when the U-boats nearly swept the Allied convoys from the Atlantic, and the end-game phase of the battle when most U-boat crews were slaughtered.The author's true story is so incredible that at times it makes the book hard to read: one incredible escape after another.
Das Boot makes a better novel, but that is not what Werner's intentions were to write, and that does not take away from the importance of this book.
An amazing memoir of Captain Werner's experiences in the German U-boat campaigns of World War II from its early glory days to its near anhilation by wars end.
His writing is so vivid and engaging that you feel like you're in the U-boat with him fearing for your life listening to the screws of the Allied destroyers and depth charges that are searching to sink your sub and send you to your grave in an iron coffin.
His memoirs give the reader an enlightening view from the German perspective of the war.
The best war story of all times. A story by a man who was a german submarine captain and survived... it is more then a story of the war: it is a story of challenge, accomplishment, love, complete loss, and discovery .. at the setting of an immanent death.
When I was a boy of about 13 a Royal Navy submarine came to the port where I lived.
This was unusual as it was a commercial and fishing port rather than a naval port.
There was an open day and it was possible to go aboard the submarine.
I was fascinated and have remained fascinated by submarines ever since.Because it was a port my home town was heavily bombed and my generation (post-war baby-boomers) grew up with empty, derelict spaces in the streets where bombs had fallen.
Largely because of this, WWII is a period of history that fascinates me too.So, WWII and submarines?
Eindrucksvolles Buch über die U-Boot Fahrten und das Leben an Bord eines U-Bootes von Kapitän Werner während des zweiten Weltkrieges.Leider ist die Schreibe des Autors doch ein wenig trocken, was den Spass am Lesen doch ein wenig trübt. Daher hat es dann doch ein wenig gedauert, bis ich mit dem Buch durch war.Aber die Geschichte nach seiner Gefangennahme bis zur Flucht nach Deutschland ist sehr spannend geschrieben und der absolute Höhepunkt des Buches in meinen Augen.
Absolutely phenomenal, amazingly written and such a page turning story. Truly one of the best memoirs I have ever read. A no holds barred look at the U-Boat war from the happy times to the last desperate gasps. Highly recommended.
Brilliant first-hand account of German submarine warfare in World War II. A must for anyone who has ever seen DAS BOOT!
What about men such as Herbert Werner, who are basically the middle management of the Nazi war machine?Iron Coffins is an impressive read.
Werner talks about his feelings freely.
Although he downplays Nazism, it is there, with him frankly talking about how everyone was in despair upon haring of Adolf Hitler's death.
More than most, there is a real feeling of grinding despair tempered by duty which finally reaches insanity with orders to ram ships and German sailors being shot after the war ends just to avoid a repeat of the 1918 mutiny.There are many criticisms of this book, but the one that rings hollow is that it is overly romanticized.
Werner starts us out in the "Happy Time," when the U-boots were decimating the lend-lease convoys and the Kriegsmarine had the upper hand.
In the final section "Disaster and Defeat," we see the full-scale decline of the U-boot flotillas, the collapse of the German war effort, and the increasing insanity and perversity of those in command on shore.
Desperation and panic led to a huge unnecessary loss of life among the German submariners in the latter stages of the war as the U-boot ranks started to be filled with NSDAP fanatics who sailed out on last-ditch efforts straight into the waiting arms of the Allied destroyers and corvettes.
For example, he claims to taken part in the attack on Convoy SC122 and says that U239 sunk several ships.
But U230 not recorded as having sunk anything in this convoy.
In fact, there is no record of U239 actually attacking the convoy, though he peripherally took part in the operation.
I would have liked to see more information about the technical operation of the U Boat But from 1942 to the end of the war, as he passes through Europe on his way to his assignments or to visit his family, he portrays Germany's home front as increasingly battered and desperate.
This in itself is fascinating glimpse of wartime Germany, and makes the book well worth reading.
Of all books on submarine warfare in WWII this is the gold standard.
Leutnant ser See Wener's personal account from induction and service as a junior officer through being a captain of his own boat to capture is truly a great book, worthy of 4.5 stars.
The honesty he shares with us about his experience make this book a worthy read.
I wish I could round up (I love the honesty about what pig boats were like and how extreme it was between being at sea and being ashore) but Iron Coffin's didn't move me as much as the other two did.
What a hard book to read - not that it isn't eminently readable, because it is.
This book helped me see what it was like for an ordinary German serviceman during the war (although every time he was upset with "the enemy" I muttered, "You guys started it!").
Werner explained how obedience and duty are ingrained in the German people; so when the U-boats were ordered to do things that would almost certainly lead to the crew's death, they obeyed.
This book was full of action and excitement and very well told.
A very complete book of the various stages of the Battle of the Atlantic from the perspective of a U-boat captain that survived. As with many WWII books, various aspects of training, equipment capabilities, and tactics are presented throughout the book. What I was unaware of was how intense the attacks on U-boats by Allied forces were during the last stages of the war. It was a miracle for any U-boat just to make it out to sea and return to base safely.
Excellent book following Werner throughout the war from the highs of the German uboat campaign int he eary years of the war to the disaster to the uboat service by eventual Allied air and naval supremacy. Another great read.
Have read this book four times. It is one of the most amazing tales I have ever read. Cannot recommend this book highly enough.
Infatti, molti camerati di Werner non sono sopravvissuti a eventi che hanno invece fortunosamente risparmiato l'autore.Il libro ripercorre tutta la carriera di Werner a bordo dei "lupi di Doenitz" dal 1941 al 1945 e traspare in modo chiaro come i successi dei primi anni di guerra abbiano, in breve tempo, lasciato il posto a missioni in cui l'unica cosa certa era la morte grazie ai progressi continui delle forze armate alleate il cui passo era stato perso dalla formidabile Kriegsmarine sia per la miopia e la mancanza di buonsenso dei vertici militari (manifesta quando le cose cominciarono ad andare male) sia per l'incapacità dell'industria tedesca di reagire prontamente e con elevati volumi di produzione alle necessità del fronte.Dal libro è altresì evidente come la determinazione e la tenacia con cui i tedeschi hanno combattuto fino alla resa è qualcosa che trascende il nazismo.
The book tells an unbelievable story that sticks with you and makes you think about right and wrong in the face of war and evil, and you keep wondering how Werner and his crew get through all the shitstorms and survive them all as one of the very few that do.
During the book you're sometimes hit by the realization that you're reading a real account or a real person during a real time in a really hard war, and the historic context of it all is fascinating from start to finish.
The book is little more than just an account of what happened.
There is no posturing, no propaganda, It's simply a soldier's story of how he believed in his country and how he believed he was fighting the good fight and victory would be Germany's because they were the "good guys" just like Britain was convinced that they were right and noble.As the war drags on though, Werner begins to see things happening that he does not like or agree with and conflicting feeling start, but he is loyal and continues to believe that the war must be won.
Little by little, the tide turns and Britain, with her allies begin to get the upper hand.Werner is very detailed and honest about his account and his feelings and he never once talks down about the British or Americans.
This is about how the people where working on the German U boats and the ridiculous things that the German Generals would tell them to do.
The author wrote this book along the lines of historical fiction.
The main character was a person who was inside the German U boats.
The Generals often requested such ridiculous things that would get the ships sunk and kill everyone.
The main character has to face the struggles of living on the U boat and deciding what's real and what's not.I would change how the book was wrote.
Werner and documents his rise from cadet to U-boat commander and recollects his experiences in this titanic struggle from the early 'happy years' to the turning of the tables and ultimate demise of the U-boats.The book captures the grimness of operating in a submarine perfectly and give the insider a great insight to the theatre - ideal for historian yet 100% accessible and enjoyable for the casual reader.'Enjoyable' may not be an appropriate word but this book really is fantastic and is accompanied well by 'Das Boot'.I have read it 3 times over the past decade and have currently lent it to a mate.It is a absolute must read!
Regardless of your religious beliefs, it's hard to read this book through and not believe that some higher power was watching over Herbert Werner.
Every ten pages I would have to stop and share with someone what had just happened; the man went from one incredible exploit or near-disaster to the next.
You get an excellent sense of the man and of how many of the men in the German navy must have viewed events in the war as it headed towards its final conclusion.
Just when you think Werner's life cannot be any more miraculous, the war ends and the epilogue begins.
I'll say no more because of spoilers, but do read this incredible book.
probably superior to them both if one actually sits down and reads their works and compares them to Werner.
Nevermind what apprehensions one might have about reading a war memoir, especially one entitled "Iron Coffins"; Werner's book is a moving story of survival and heartbreak both at sea, in port, and on the homefront.
The number of times Werner cheated death and escaped from the Allies defies belief.
The descriptions of life in port in France is also extremely entertaining and full of drama and makes for a compelling story in its own right.
I cannot recommend this book enough!!!
This is an excellent personal history of the German U-Boat war during World War II.
Much of their operational technique is discussed and in that regard it is very enlightening.
Their early successes where they seem to sink Allied shipping at will is matched by their very rapid demise beginning in mid 1943.
Their staggering losses after that are such that the reader is amazed their crews continued to leave port.
While the book is entirely about the service of a single German sailor, the book tells a story that would likely sound familiar to submariners from any WW2 navy and in that regard is a worthwhile read.
Engrossing, particularly toward the end when it becomes increasingly clear that the Axis is getting pummeled and the author is being ordered to undertake what amount to suicide missions. And the post-surrender chapter, which deals with prison camp life and his escapes, is fascinating. I would have preferred less nostalgia about the bordellos and more description of what day-to-day life on the boat was like. (I was expecting the book to be more like Das Boot in this respect.) Thirty to sixty days on that thing? How did people not go utterly mental?
Wow! What a classic. I have read U-boat commanders accounts from WWI, but this is the first from WWII.I knew that the Allies put a beat down on the German Navy, but I had no idea that the German U-boat Fleet was almost totally annihilated. This mans story was truly enthralling. I can see why this book had been read so much that some of the pages had to be taped to stay in. If you are even mildly interested in WWII history, this is a book you should read.
My co-worker, Jay, recommended this book to me and I enjoyed it very much. Herbert Werner was an amazing person, and this book succeeds because of his matter-of-fact voice combined with his experiences as a U-Boat captain and his survival. Mr. Werner doesn't embellish his experiences, but lets them stand on their own merits. One of the best books I've read about the experience of war by those who have fought it.
No matter what you think of the Germans during WW II most did not belong to the Nazi party and served as soldiers on both side. This was true of most of German navy. This story from one of the few who survived the entire war serving in submarines is riveting. The story of his life both during mission and between them and the close calls and the sad reality of seeing almost everyone he knew die on subs and in the cities.
An account of WWII's war of the Atlantic from the perspective of one of the few surviving German U-Boat captains. Filled with evocative descriptions, action sequences, a slice of history I have not seen described anywhere else. This has been a favorite book of mine for 25 years, and it has lost none of its power over time.
I read this one after reading Shadow Divers.It made me look at war and the people who fight wars in a whole different way.By the end of this book I found myself cursing the British and American forces, and had to remind myself which side I was on.This story could have been written about any sub crew from either side of the war. Wonderfully written and enlightening
Iron Coffins is an excellent memoir about being in a German U-boat during WWII. Werner describes the incredible conditions that the U-boat crews underwent and provides an interesting view of France and Germany during WWII.The books account of how anyone could tolerate the conditions and survive being in a U-boat is well worth reading for anyone interested in WWII.
