https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25084093-hombres-sin-mujeres
I saw Murakami yesterday.
I don't mean that in a metaphorical way: I literally saw him in my home town of Odense, Denmark.
He received the Hans Christian Andersen Literary Award and made a few small appearances while he was here, one of which was at our local library.
We heard him read aloud from a short story (in Japanese) which his Danish translator afterwards read in Danish; we heard him answer some questions prepared by said translator and a literature expert.
And we heard him answer some questions from the audience.
And I got to ask him the last question.(I may come back and actually review this collection.
Men Without Women is a collection of stories about despairing men and loneliness; it depicts men who try to cope with the sorrows of life after their loved one has departed from them.
Again, these men are not emotionally fragile or unhinged; they are relatively normal people who simply get overwhelmed by emotions that they cannot control or predict.
However, despite the harsh experience the men have here, I wanted to see a little bit more positivity.
Some people, men or women, will find themselves in very similar situations in life, but they do not simply lay down and die.
Audiobook...I LOVED THESE STORIES!!!!
They penetrated through my ears and my thoughts.
I was hanging on to every word walking around town completely captivated.
The only thing I didn't like -- only for a couple of minutes-is when switching to a new story...
I wasn't ready to transition.
Do you think women drive different than men?
MEN: do you feel less at ease in the passenger seat with a woman driving - than when a man is?
To my 'audiobook' friends.....( even if you mostly only listen to non- fiction audiobooks)...this was an EXCELLENT WALKING COMPANION...( Esil)...
In the title piece a man receives a ‘phone call advising him that an ex-girlfriend has committed suicide.
And then there’s the account of a young man in confinement, who is visited by a housekeeper who also provides sexual favours and talks to him about reincarnation (she was an eel in a previous life) and a boy she secretly stalked.These stories spoke to me of introspection and addiction and of a yearning for relationships lost.
As he stumbles about his apartment trying to get used to this new, strange body he is visited by a hunchbacked woman to whom he becomes attracted.It’s my first foray into the world of the author’s short story collections and it’s one I found hugely rewarding.
“HE WOKE TO discover that he had undergone a metamorphosis and become Gregor Samsa.” Yes, that's right... Kafka in reverse! This must be the best opening line that I have seen in a short story for a long while. It is not the first one in this collection, but it certainly grabbed my attention. This collection reminded me why Haruki Murakami is one of my favourite authors.Here are some tasters:Drive my Car””… Performing allowed me to be someone other than myself. And I could revert back when the
And Dr. Tokai was one of them.”In this story Dr. Tokai concludes that women have a special independent organ…ScheherazadeAh yes, she tells stories… and Habara thinks about lampreys.KinoKino makes an unfortunate discovery, opens a bar, and there’s a cat (this is Murakami after all!) and a mysterious customer who likes to read.
Samsa in LoveSee my opening paragraph.Men Without Women”This woman was the third woman I’d gone out with who’d killed herself.” Go figure…I thoroughly enjoyed reading this collection of stories with its thread of identity and self in the lives of men without women.
"That's what it is like to lose a woman.
And at a certain time, losing one woman means losing all women.
That's how we become Men Without Women."-- Haruki Murakami, Men Without WomenThis is a soft Murakami.
A lot of his novels are dreamlike, but this one seems more like an emotional smell than a memory.
There just isn't a lot to grab onto.
It reminded me of petting a sea anemone flower at a local aquarium.
Drive My Car - ★★★★2.
Yesterday - ★★★3.
Scheherazade - ★★★★5.
Kino - ★★★★6.
Samsa in Love - ★★★7.
Men without Women - ★★★
Ja prosto obožavam ovog čoveka!Savršeno, na njegov svojstven način upakovano.Svaku sam priču doživela kao jedan mali roman. ❤ Imam osećaj da su njeno i moje srce nečim čvrsto povezani. Kad se njeno srce pomeri, ono sa sobom povuče i moje. Kao dva čamca vezano konopcem. Čak i da želim da presečem tu vezu, sečivo kojim bi se ona dala preseći nigde ne postoji. ❤
Ja prosto obožavam ovog čoveka!Savršeno, na njegov svojstven način upakovano.Svaku sam priču doživela kao jedan mali roman. ❤️ Imam osećaj da su njeno i moje srce nečim čvrsto povezani. Kad se njeno srce pomeri, ono sa sobom povuče i moje. Kao dva čamca vezano konopcem. Čak i da želim da presečem tu vezu, sečivo kojim bi se ona dala preseći nigde ne postoji. ❤️
Και υπάρχει και η άλλη, του αναγνώστη που θα δει τον Μουρακάμι μέσα από τα μάτια αυτών που αγαπάνε την γραφή του.Αυτή η συγκρατημένη γραφή του, κάτι το μελαγχολικά ψυχρό πολλές φορές στον τρόπο που οι ήρωές του κινούνται και μιλάνε, ακόμα με κάνει να εκπλήσσομαι με την αναγνώριση που έχει παγκοσμίως.
Αν και καθόλου δύσκολός στο διάβασμα, δεν έχει γνωρίσματα εμπορικού συγγραφέα.
Και όμως, αποτελεί τον πιο αναγνωρισμένο Ιάπωνα μυθοπλάστη.Νομίζω πως προτιμώ τις μικρές του ιστορίες.
Και τούτες οι μικρές ιστορίες εδώ νομίζω είναι οι καλύτερες που έχω διαβάσει από τον Μουρακάμι.
I wanted to memorize long passages of this beautiful story (although I think the beauty of the writing was stronger than the story itself).In "Scheherazade", a woman beguiles a homebound man (the reason for his being homebound is never explained, he's one of Murakami's men without the will to go into the world, in the most literal sense) with stories.
Like the men, the women in these stories are also unable to form lasting connections with others."Samsa in Love" is the oddest, funniest, and yet also frightening/touching stories in the collection.
Dreams are the kind of things you can—when you need to—borrow and lend out. You know how, for many people, reading books is like travelling without leaving the comfort of their living rooms? For me, reading Murakami is like returning home after a long and exhaustive trip. His prose, his style, all the little well known things that make up his stories, feel like a cozy, dim-lit room with dark corners and telephones that ring menacingly, like an unfortold dark turn of events, in the middle of the
You know how, for many people, reading books is like travelling without leaving the comfort of their living rooms?
For me, reading Murakami is like returning home after a long and exhaustive trip.
His prose, his style, all the little well known things that make up his stories, feel like a cozy, dim-lit room with dark corners and telephones that ring menacingly, like an unfortold dark turn of events, in the middle of the night.
Suddenly one day you become Men Without Women.
Turn a corner and you know you’re already there.
In that world you are called “Men Without Women.” Always a relentlessly frigid plural.
"But when I look back at myself at age twenty what I remember most is being alone and lonely."Ahh Murakami and his endless alienated, lonely male characters!
Men Without Women is a collection of short stories by Haruki Murakami that came out in 2017 (not to be confused with Hemingway's short-story collection of the same name).
Here, we have seven stories with male characters, each with varying degrees of despair, dread or loneliness from the lack or loss of women.
There are themes of grief, betrayal, masochism or just complete alienation in this book.
It seems to me, Murakami has been writing about them forever.Merging all the characters that Murakami, over the years, breathed life into, we invariably discover a man, always the same man, the ultimate loner.
Murakami has given him new names and effaced older ones.
This time, I loathed his repetitiveness, and the weakness and frailty of his characters.
Disgusted by their apathy towards others and their nonchalant way of going about life, I became increasingly indifferent as to how their stories progressed.
But in this case, Murakami's men lack sincerity, their stories significance.
Only a reader, relatively new to Murakami's world, should consider reading this book.
Chẹp, sau đó rốt cuộc tôi trả lời Drive My Car là truyện tôi thấy...không thích nhất....mặc dù tôi vừa thi đỗ bằng lái xe xong :3_________________________________________Bác già liếm não người đọc, hoặc thậm chí là ngoạm, bằng cách chơi luôn 7 khúc cải lương não nề, nẫu ruột với ý đồ : trong thế giới không có đàn bà, đàn ông mê man, chuếnh choáng.Làm gì mà ghê :|Ừ thì cũng hơi ghê, nhớ hồi...xem.Trong cuốn này có rất nhiều những suy tư của đàn ông về đàn bà (vẫn như thường lệ), những suy tư cực khó diễn tả thành lời (vẫn như nó vốn dĩ).
En esta ocasión, Murakami nos presenta la historia por medio de Tanimura, mientras este nos relata la relación de amistad que tuvo durante una época con Kitaru, uno de los personajes más extravagantes del autor, por ejemplo aprendió todo un dialecto porque sí.
La historia que nos relata en Kino es un poco diferente al resto del conjunto de los relatos, puesto que, entre otras cosas, aquí Murakami opta por añadir un toque de ese surrealismo o realismo mágico como lo llaman algunos, que normalmente vemos en algunas de sus obras.
There is no plot to them, but as usual Murakami writes character driven stories, and I don't care because I can read them and love them!In these seven short stories, he writes about lonely men and their experiences with mysterious women, and how they chose loneliness to avoid the pain of love.
She always tells him stories, like Scheherazade, about her teenage life and the boy she loved and even sneaked to his house to know more about him.This felt like a fairy tale.
I haven't read any Kafka book so I can't even know what to expect from him.Men without women: ★★★★★I guess this is my favorite story from the collection.
Kino is the ok story where a recently heartbroken man opens up a bar and plays host to a strange man who comes in every week, reads a book and drinks his booze.
I get the literary references - 1001 Arabian Nights (Scheherazade), Kafka (Samsa in Love), Hemingway (Men Without Women), and of course the near-obligatory Beatles nods (Drive My Car, Yesterday) - but so what?
I have read Hemingway’s collection, also called Men Without Women, though it’s been years and I can’t remember it so I’m not sure if it ties into this in any meaningful way.
The worst stories were Samsa in Love and Men Without Women.
Si hay una cosa que tengo clara, y que puedo admitir, es que no soy capaz de apreciar el arte de muchas de sus obras.
Probablemente sea porque es un escritor de otra generación mucho más adulta que la mía y me cuesta sentirme identificado con los personajes de sus historias (a excepción de Tokio Blues, de momento).Lo que sí puedo apreciar, sin duda, es un gran arte en su forma de escribir, con líneas muy claras, con un simbolismo refinado, y que siempre deja al lector con un sabor nostálgico.
It felt like an homage to a bunch of different writers (Salinger, Woody Allen, Paul McCartney) and frankly, had it not been in this book, I wouldn’t have finished reading it.
It felt like really young work that Murakami attempted to revise into something more than it is.“An Independent Organ” is a more mature story than the previous one, but I’m ambivalent about it.
Maybe I’ll like them.]I wonder how many of us writers have a lifelong love affair with Kafka’s The Metamorphosis such that we’ve written homages or parodies.
(Maybe someday a publisher will put together a whole book of stories that are an homage to Kafka’s Metamorphosis.
This was my first delve into Murukami's works, and I thoroughly the experience.
Murukami is certainly a master wordsmith, and his characters are dynamic and interesting, and the amount of depth he goes into with the actual character development, is truly astounding.
A couple of the stories, I just couldn't stop reading until the end, those were "Yesterday" and "An independent organ" The only story that I didn't appreciate was "Men without women"It just didn't give me anything like the others did.I'm actually quite sad that I've come to the end of this book, and I'll definitely be reading more of Murukami's works in the future.
3.5I guess you never run out of books to read.
I've read good chunk of Japanese books.
Just a hunch that he wouldn't be my thing.Out of a whim I picked this short story collection to atleast know what all the fuss is about and I think I'm about to read his whole bibliography now.
For one thing, i see Japanese being real crazy about Beatles in every single book.As the title says, this collection has bunch of lonely men, apparently, without women, in one or the other way.
Samsa in love - 5/5Men without women - 2/5
Men Without Women is the second collection of Murakami's short stories that I've read.
The first, The Elephant Vanishes, was the reading equivalent of receiving a mixtape of wonderful music which I'd never heard before.
Reading each of them was like being caught up in a delightful whirlwind that took me to somewhere I had never been before.Men Without Women was an altogether different experience.
I wonder where that one will take me?Soundtrack and intermission music for Men Without Women (the first two artists are mentioned in the book):https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=URw8l...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y87MR...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rgjh1...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a1WDW...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Lju1...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aswPC...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrO45...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RSquV...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6nwP...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fcxcj...
A somewhat disappointing book of short stories by Murakami. I suppose that this will be the last of his books that I shall read. After a great start, Murakami seems to have become a bad emulator of Murakami. Those quirky little things like the disappearing cat that once entertained me now stroke me as non sequetors that merely frustrate me. Seven stories that neither left an impression nor entertained. They shall quickly fade.
I'm better than that (and so are you.) Next I will read The Open Pen Anthology, six years' worth of interesting contemporary authors collected by a London literary magazine, for half the price of this book, so many other, more niche and exciting writers' work to discover.
I'm not saying you have to read that particular book instead, but it is far too easy to find 200 pages more deserving of your attention than Murakami's.
I read it at least five times a day now and it's like, suck a diiiiiiiiiick, you know?
3.5 Para los hombres sin mujeres, el mundo es una mezcolanza vasta e intensa, es la otra cara de la Luna en su totalidad. Qué buenos relatos. Los mejores, a mi gusto, son Yesterday, Un órgano independiente y Hombres sin mujeres. Me parecieron sublimes. Son cuentos que no olvidaré fácilmente.
It’s that special time of year where I return to the works of Haruki Murakami to see how I feel about the guy. For those of you who have been following my slow reading of Murakami, I loved the first novel I read by him, 1Q84, was ho-hum about  The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle , considered abandoning Murakami after really disliking  Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage , and had my faith restored when I listened to  What I Talk About When I Talk About Running . So, having felt the ebb a
This year’s candidate: Men Without Women, which also happens to fit in nicely with my attempt to read a short story collection per month in 2018.
This one’s my least favourite of the stories to date, though you just gotta appreciate how weird Murakami can get sometimes.5.
What a sour note to leave on.Average Score: ***This has been a really great collection for me, primarily to help me suss out what type of Murakami stories I enjoy most.
All in all, not my favourite short story collection of the year, but still a worthy mixed bag.
Putting together seven short stories in this book, underlines this most talented author.
Told in his usual mysterious style and with always a nod to humor, Marakami presents the reader with lots to think about as he takes us on this journey that his male characters traverse without the women they have come to love in their own special way.
Mesmerizing and beautiful these seven tales will appeal to those of us who love his work with their cats, Beatles' lyrics, whiskey, characters without names, and certainly that special oddness that we have come to expect in his writings.
(Sorry, an inside joke).There's a lot of homage going on here, at least by the titles of the stories.
Readers of Murakami will know this is not the first time he has gone down that well.
But there's also a tip of the cap to Middle Eastern Literature (Scheherazade), Hemingway (in the title story Men Without Women), and Kafka, of course (Samsa in Love).Murakami has jumped in the Kafka well before, but the story herein strays from the I once had a girl motif.
Murakami lo hace una y otra vez.
Quizás mucha gente se haya cansado de leer sobre soledades, personalidades perdidas, bares llenos de whisky y los mismos elementos de siempre.
Sin embargo, yo le admiro poder construir tanto con poco.
Los mismos elementos, las mismas ciudades y las mismas caras invisibles llenan estos relatos que se juntaron en un libro más de Murakami, otro acercamiento al tratamiento de la soledad, de la cotidianeidad japonesa y de cómo es no tener a quién amar, estar confundido o dentro de un círculo vicioso de parejas sin sentido.Otro aplauso para el japonés occidentalizado que tan bien introduce en este tipo de literatura.
Още когато попаднах на разкази на Мураками в списание "Съвременник" преди над десет години си казах - този човек умее да пише страхотно.
Те са истинските извънземни за мен и с всеки нов роман или разказ от японски писател, аз се убеждавам в това.
Това прозира даже и в адаптираното според мен за вкуса на западния читател творчество на Мураками.
Сравнително ниската ми оценка на сборника е защото два от разказите въобще не ми харесаха - "Мъже без жени" и "Влюбеният Самса".
Haruki Murakami’s latest collection, Men Without Women takes its name from Hemingway's stories of the same name (Men Without Women), but one will find no bullfighting or boxing in the seven stories here, but rather men with a gaping absence in their lives.The British publisher’s blurb reads: “here are vanishing cats and smoky bars, lonely hearts and mysterious women, baseball and the Beatles, woven together to tell stories that speak to us all”, which appears to be an attempt to appeal to lovers of Murakami bingo:And indeed the strongest story in the collection, Kino, scores pretty well with one scene alone ticking half the boxes.
