https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30242.Burnt_Offerings
There were threads of plot, the vampire council has come to town to rape and pillage the beasties, but really this book is all about Anita gaining power, dealing with her two lover boys and gaining new puppy doggies and kitties who follow her every command.
I found myself getting grouchy and bored with the oh-so-perfect and all-powerful Anita.
I want tomboy Anita The Vampire Executioner back and as much as I complained about the Nike swish descriptions I'd give anything to have them back.
If I have to hear another description of a whored up Anita outfit I'm going to gag.
These books are getting grittier. The Vampire Council comes to town and they are some sadistic motherf*ckers! Torture, rape, and murder are their nice qualities, and Jean Claude and Anita have giant bulls-eyes on their backs. The good news is that Anita keeps getting more and more bloodthirsty herself.  Some days I thought I was becoming a sociopath. Some days I thought I was already there. sociopaths have the best senses of humor...In this book we get to meet some awesome new characters: Nathan
Torture, rape, and murder are their nice qualities, and Jean Claude and Anita have giant bulls-eyes on their backs.
The good news is that Anita keeps getting more and more bloodthirsty herself.
Some days I thought I was becoming a sociopath.
pity party of one....Richard?
He even encourages Anita to try and make peace with Richard.
He may dress-up everyone around him like gay pirate romance novel covers, but he also showers Anita with gifts and romantic notes.
I'll dress like a dominatrix pirate for him any day.okay, Jean Claude, what do YOU want me to wear?
It’s neat to be able to reread a series and pick up on all the little things you missed.Blake:  Mercy will get you killed, but sometimes it’s all that makes us human.Love triangle, Anita, Jean-Claude and Richard.
A little whoaness factor there but I thought it very interesting as I read about some of Blake’s friends’ bodies being abused by the traveler and his lover.You have the Master of Beasts, Padma and his sidekick rapist son Fernando.
Between being skinned alive for wall decoration, repeatedly raped or forced into an eternity of furriness, Padma is one of my least favorite characters in this book.
Seriously, Laurell K. Hamilton used to write good vampire-slayer novels. Now she writes erotica. Don't get me wrong, I like erotica as much as the next guy (or gal), but when I want to read a vampire slayer novel, I want to read a vampire slayer novel!!! Damn you, Anita Blake.
She tries continually to sell us that she is "in love" with Jean-Claude, but then she makes statements like this:"I had to trust him.
The only things Anita appears to like about Jean-Claude are A) his incredibly, breath-taking body and B) the sex.
Which means Anita talking about the evening gown she's wearing, and, of course, griping about not wearing her black Nikes, which hide all the blood she steps in.And because LKH's entire male cast pretty much goes commando in the entire series:"The pants were black linen, clinging smooth and perfect to his body, so form-fitting that I knew there was nothing under the pants but him."LKH makes it even worse by having Anita stop in the middle of a scene where people are seriously injured to detail all the flowers she planted in her yard.
The idea that the majority of them die through spontaneous combustion as they get older and lose control is so clever and sounds realistic for that type of power.- Anita's protective instinct towards Nathaniel and the other wereleopards and werewolves.- The details concerning the vampire council in Europe and the political manoeuvrings were very interesting, particularly the inclusion of the Traveller and his abilities.- The underground/underwater scene at the Church of Eternal Life was especially creepy and horrifying.- Anita's powers and influence in the supernatural world are starting to grow and make her a force to be reckoned with.- The inclusion of Dolph and the growing distance between him and Anita is sad but realistic.- Raina's continued influence on the pack.What I didn't like:- Richard.
The first several novels in the Anita Blake series are great.
As you read each book, you can really see the character development as Anita becomes more sure of herself and more comfortable with the "monsters".
However, some the later books have deteriorated into little more than soft porn for women.
However, I feel it cheapens the series, which features a great role model in Anita as a women who has accepted that her life works the way it is and makes her happy, even it is not what the rest of the world thinks is normal.
I have to admit, Hamilton manages to introduce a new, interesting and intriguing supernatural creature in each book.Thus it's a shame her main character is so utterly predictable. I now skim through any paragraphs which contain descriptions of Anita's scars, guns, clothes, and hair.Would it be interesting to extract all these passages from the Anita Blake series and see how much copy-pasting Hamilton has done? Naw.(Is anyone else sick of reading 'naw'? Naw!)
Mesela Anita’nın süper güç gibi bir şeye dönüşmesi ve vampir konseyini bile dize getirmesi.
Şimdi bu vatandaş ilk kitaplarda sadece bir animatördü, sonra nekromensır olduğunu öğrendik (buraya kadar bir sorun yok), sonlara doğru kurt sürüsünün lupa’sı oldu, yani alfadan sonra kararlardaki en etkili işi, sonra da leoparlarrın garip isimli bir şeyi oldu; hatırlayamadım adını ama leoparlar ona bağlandı diyebilirim.
Ayrıca üç tane vampir izi de var, bir nevi JC’nin “özgür iradeli” insan hizmetkarı ve de sevgilisi ve bu sayedehızlı iyileşiyor, etki altına alınamıyor felan… Kız resmen dişi terminatör olmak üzere, çünkü öldürmek de onu etkilemiyor.
4.5I really like this series. Normally I'd get bored by now but these books are just that good. Everything is so well written that I can't put them down.
They could have been made into an interesting character but instead they are the stereotypical scorned not-quite-lover with lots of dark pouty looks thrown in for good (or bad) measure.The Council members had some interesting abilities but these were in no way really explored or explained, it was just 'here is the big bad, be scared' and the seemingly constant threat (and reality) of rape and violence just seemed a really poor way to show menace when it could have been so nuanced.I liked Warwicks character and I hope that gets explored a bit more later on, Yvette was just a rehash of the rotting girls, Padma (not queen Amidala) and his son were too much 'I WILL CONTROL YOU' and Asher was partly interesting and at least his change of heart on Anita and Jean Claude seemed reasonable.
It's like one moment Anita is talking to some firedude and suddenly all kind of shit hits the fan.
Things like clothing descriptions can be reduced.
Yet Anita's all like Rambo in heels chasing people with her Uzi all ready to shoot everyone.Also, why are these weres so wussy?
Why do her books have to have so much dang rape in them?
Do not weaken strong characters to make Anita look badass.Why do I keep reading these books?
There are some sexually charged scenes but everything is really tame thus far.
I absolutely loved the fact that Jean-Claude was in almost every scene.
I think that he is sometimes portrayed as too weak but I still love me some JC!
I still prefer Jean-Claude to Richard though.
If Richard would just claim his beast I would like him much more.
I am not sure what I think about Nathaniel yet.
I do think I will like Asher though.
Jean-Claude needs a friend and it doesn't bother me that Asher might be in love with Jean-Claude.
It had a lot of Jean-Claude, who i LOVE, and im pretty sure that's why i gave this one four stars..
Because, im pretty sure you get that im #TeamJean-Claude!
I took me a while to get really started on this book, probably cause i'd read 6 Anita Blake books in 6 days, which probably made it to...
So i took a break from Anita, and thank god i did, cause then the book because so much more good and exiting :)!
Can't wait to read the next book.Rate: 4 stars.
Except for Yvette and her constant "I'm going to rot on you" threats, this was as enjoyable as the rest. You can certainly sense that this series is taking a turn for sex fest town.
Yvette pulled Jason in against her legs, cradling his face against her thigh. “Watch, Jason, watch and see what I do to bad little boys”... His eyes collapsed inward, crumbling with rot...   The Vampire Council has come to town: screams rend throats, blood flies, and flesh peels. These vampires give Pinhead a run for his money all while maintaining the height of civility. I enjoyed the expanding cast of characters and Anita’s adoption, ok takeover, of the Pack/Pard. This is the book where Richa
Yvette pulled Jason in against her legs, cradling his face against her thigh.
“Watch, Jason, watch and see what I do to bad little boys”...
The Vampire Council has come to town: screams rend throats, blood flies, and flesh peels.
These vampires give Pinhead a run for his money all while maintaining the height of civility.
This is the book where Richard becomes the pain in ass he is for the rest of the series.
It’s an entirely different kind of horror knowing you are eternally bound to a Richard.Some of my casting choices:
Although some readers didn't like this book as much as the earlier ones (due to the increased sexual violence) I found I liked it quite a lot (not the violence, the story around it).
I'd like to know more about Dolph, and Wren, the fireman new to this book, seems like he is interesting too.
I'd like to see Larry (and Officer Tammy, for that matter) a bit more, too.The council members who have, for lack of a better term, invaded St. Louis are a scary, creepy bunch.
She is also quite a lot more comfy with the monsters than say, Dolph would like.
Bu seride artık Jean Claude dışında hiçbir şey dikkatimi çekmiyor yorum yazmak için kitabı elime aldığımda bunu anladım.
Normalde bu ay sekizinci kitabı okuyup bir süre ara verecektim ama onu bile elime alasım yok.
Bir önceki kitapta şikayet ettiğim binbir türlü olay Yanmış Kurban da daha beter hale geldi.
Bir de şu gereksiz Anıta erkekleri sorunu var.
Kadına herkes aşık herkes hayran adeta bir kusursuz erkek çekicisi.
Tamam bunu da kabul ettik bir yerde ama herkesle aynı anda nasıl flörtleşiyor bunu anlamıyorum.Sinir olmaktan başka hiçbir şey hissetmiyorum artık seriye karşı.
Right at the beginning of this book a person with pyrokinetic abilities is described as being loose in the city.
Sounds good and fits the title of the book and the description.
But, then nothing happens on this theme for over 300 pages.
Hamilton does a good job of forging an emotional connection to the characters but uses various methods of torture and violence to achieve that.
People have told me the first half a dozen books of this series are the best.
Based on this one (#7) I believe they are right and I may drop the series at this point.
honestly, i’m surprised i’m not bored yet
In short, a Mary Sue, and hopefully something shall come along shortly to limit her powers otherwise it's going to become incredibly dull reading, no matter how many sex scenes Hamilton throws in.
And while we're on that subject, I love a good sex scene as much (if not more so!) as the next person, but there has to be a reason for including it before it becomes nothing other than titillation for titillation's sake.
I kept on thinking I would come back and finish this one but....I rarely do a DNF but this I'll have to call it as it is.
So I put it in the "I'll come back to it" category but I don't think I will.
The books are too dark and I don't like the characters much.
Usually the stories end up being pretty good but that is just not enough for me.I don't rate that which I don't finish.
The story was pretty interesting but the characters and conflict off putting.
I used to do this thing where when a new book in the series was released, I would go back and reread all the prior books.
Burnt Offerings is number 7 in the life of Anita Blake and by now we mostly know her and the main players (Jean-Claude, Richard, Dolph, Ronnie, etc...).
Another thing I'm noticing now that I'm rereading these at an older age than when I started is just how much Anita kind of annoys me.
There's a way to write a strong female character without putting all of the others down.
All the other characters who aren't Anita, for one.
Traditionally the vampire that kills a Councillor takes his place on the Council.But Jean-Claude doesn’t want the job and is doubtful of his own ability to survive at such a high level against such ancient and powerful vampires.
It’s even shakier when they realise that several of the Council representatives have no reason to like Jean-Claude, including Asher, his long ago friend who still blames him for the death of Julianna and the horrific scars he received at the hands of the church.The Councillors themselves have some awful habits that strain Anita’s tolerance, and her ability to keep all of her people safe from their abuses.
Of course the ongoing Jean-Claude and Richard relationship drives the story through angst between the three and scorn from other characters in this drama.I especially like the side stories where she is finding herself functioning as a healer sharing her magical powers unknown even to her in helping those she feels responsible for return to better health.Without going into detail, the disruptive Council individuals and activities created a new and unique mixture of danger and resolutions creatively enhancing this series.This book has some very graphic descriptions that push this into more adult territory disturbing to younger readers.I truly liked how the preceding series books were leveraged to make the characters and world building faster to understand and follow.I’m definitely addicted to this series so far.
This is book 7 in the Anita Blake series and I loved books 1-3, liked books 4-6 and then this one just blew.The objections: No real plot to speak of, an officially loathsome unlikeable Anita who is becoming increasingly worshipped by the other characters who have become ridiculous, and uninteresting.
Said installation obviously requires he take his shirt off (though not pull back his sexy,wavy golden brown locks which fall alluringly in his eyes) and parade around the house in only his jeans and a layer of drywall.
After this the novel devolves into a series of increasingly personal conversations and actions which take place in front of an audience of anywhere from 3-20 people.
I was getting a bit of Anita burn out at book 5.
The books were good before but were just a bit luekwarm.
It had a touch of it in the beginning and end but the middle was the meat of the book and not even mentioned on the back.
The vampire council has taken interest in Jean-Claude and Anita because (they) killed a council member (Oliver) and yet didn't want to take his seat on the council.
Richard and Anita struggle with being in each other's company, and working together after their uncomfortable break up.
Good book.
The council is in town and Jean claude's life is once again in jeopardy but as always Anita saves the day.It is nice to see Larry becoming a good animator, I was happy to read about the rat king who seems to be a pretty cool guy.I was upset about Richard.
In this book I wondered many times why Anita picked Jean Claude if Richard is so perfect.
Kissing Richard kissing Jean claude kissing Nathaniel, kissing Jason, kissing even padma the bad guy for Christ sake.I agree with Ronnie, Anita's gotta embrace the monster that she truly is and give in to her hunger.
I've always enjoyed reading the Anita Blake series so far: there are all kinds of supernatural creatures with their own rules,abilities and powers ; there is action, humor, also my need of love and sexiness is satisfied. I'll be honest and say that I prefer strong,dangerous,gorgeous alpha males but I like Anita: she's tough, focused, honest, be her friend and she'll watch your back and be there for you no matter what, be her enemy and you'll be royally screwed! ! This book is not one of my favorites, but still worth a read!!
Wow! This series is getting better and better. How a book can be so intimate and grotesque at the same time amazes me. I love how Anita is learning what she is capable of at the same time we are. If these books weren't in first person, I feel we would be missing out! Ms. Laurell can write a book that keeps you interested and wanting more. Now I'm off to find Blue Moon!
