https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/604065.The_Story_of_Rolf_the_Viking_Bow
Cannot recommend this highly enough. Staggeringly good.
This is my least favorite Allen French book I've read.
While the story and characters were very intriguing, I found myself not liking the fantasy elements.
Unlike French's other story's, this book strays away from reality by featuring a ghost.
But despite the negative elements, I did enjoy the story.
Rolf was a boy of great integrity, and I loved seeing him stand by his convictions.
I loved the ending.
Even though I didn't agree with Rolf's method of dealing with his neighbor, he still handled it with grace.
Overall, an enjoyable read, but I will most likely be skipping the ghost scene next time.
Very well done, I thought a very unusual and unexpected plot line. Historical fiction at its best. Loved this quote from author note at Allen French in the afterward: "If a man takes his work seriously, and himself not too seriously, he has a good chance of doing something worth while."
Finished this story with a tear in my throat and a lump in my eye. Even better than I remember. Full review to come!
A ripping story, well-written with a satisfying ending.
And it is this time and what exactly the new faith meant for these people with the legacy of Viking civilization that Allen French wants to explore in his story.
But what Allen French does so admirably is to show how Christianity subtly solved the problem of unending cyclical revenge by giving honor, shame and the rule of law their proper place in a system that includes repentance, forgiveness and amendment of life.The telling is in the manner of Sagas, so it isn't so much about visual appeal and interior states externalized in dramatic settings.

Part of my endeavor to read the books I own. Pretty good story, but the language is so old fashioned, far older than the time of its writing. I can't see my kids pushing past that.
D. 1000 to 1010, a generation or so after the introduction of Christianity to Iceland, sixteen-year-old Rolf the son of Hiarandi the Unlucky lives with his father and mother Asdis at Cragness above Broadfirth.
Rolf is a character who exemplifies the effects of Christ’s teachings over the old barbaric customs of Iceland in that he upholds Christian values rather than pagan beliefs and promotes forgiveness instead of pride.
We did the book as a family read aloud, and everyone really liked it because of its excitement and adventure.
There was a good message about "doing unto others", though I thought perhaps at first it was going to be revenge (that's how you know a pretty good author, when you can think a character is going to act outside of his characteristics and yet still believe there's no way he could do that...and still maybe he could).
I found it quite dull for the most part, though the storyline was pretty good you don't get to know the main character until what felt like about halfway through.
3.5 Really enjoyed reading this to my 6th grader as it was part of his curriculum at school. Admittedly, I modernized the "methinks, thy, thou, etc" as I read aloud to him. :) When I asked him what he thought at the end, he said he really liked it, but he was super offended at the part where an innocent man falls to his death over some cliffs b/c a prideful, careless character won't listen to advice during a bad snow storm.
From Davis:Rolf and the Viking Bow is the story of a young man whose father has always been on the short end of the stick, hence his nickname, Hiarandi the Unlucky.
Their jealous neighbor, Einar, finds a way to get at Hiarandi by getting him outlawed by the Althing, and killing him somewhat unlawfully on his own land.
The book tells of Rolf's adventures in trying to find a way to show the injustice in the killing of his father.
This book is a great read for those of you that love historic fiction.
I like the progression of the morality of fighting for what is good even when it's never been seen before (lighting the beacon for the ships), the true bonds a family can provide even when previously untested (Snorri the Priest and his loyalty), the purpose of uniting to make a country with laws contrasted with its opposite (Iceland's govt vs. the country where Rolf was a servant). I love the good overcoming all odds, especially when throughout the story the odds continue to stack up against the hero.
This was a challenging book for many of my fourth graders, but my son (himself a fourth grader) devoured it. The language and storyline are complicated, but the pictures of character growth and honor and perseverance are worth the effort. He would say that the battle scenes and Rolf's excellent use of the bow are his favorite aspects of the story.
This was a great book! It was an enjoyable read and never lacked for adventurous moments. The only reason I marked it a 3 star instead of 4 would be because the emotion was not great. I liked the characters but did not love them.
Outstanding historical fiction!Rolf's quest to bring his father’s murderer to justice takes him through many wild adventures in the early days of Christianity in Northern Europe. Suitable for all ages.
I liked it. It was written in an interesting way. It sort of feels like it's a play. Some of the chapters feel like it like "and now we see Rolf . . . doing this." And it gets better as you read it.
Good story and accurate history. Not my favorite writer, but it was good story with plenty of adventure.
A great book!
The Story of Rolf and the Viking Bow (Living History Library) by Allen French (1995)
Full of grit, courage and forgiveness - storytelling at its best.
Very much shows the friendship and justice of Christ!
For school. Not terrible. Just not terrific.
Like Howard Pyle, Allen French writes a great book of adventure and morals.
Enjoyable.
A classic children's book worthy of an adult read. A good story of character, strength, determination and redemption.
Fabulous. A good story about honor, humility, patience, and honesty. Giving it to my kids to read now. :)
I read this to my children (and Dan) and it had very valuable moral lessons to teach to my children.
it a cool book about archery and about the Mid- Evil times
I was swept into a Viking Saga! Well done!
