https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/471934.Really_the_Blues
Milton "Mezz" Mezzrow blazed one through the jungle of conformity, "went black," lost time to drugs, fomented early 20th century jazz, became too familiar with jail, but remained focused on a vision.
Were it not for the journey New Orleans jazz made up the Mississippi to Chicago in the early paces of the 20th century, Milton Mezzrow would have had, like all of us, a story to tell, but no audience.
"Really the Blues," came out when Jack Kerouac was digging the music Mezz expounds upon, and it's no fantasy to surmise that the beat poet's jazz-infused prose are not heavily influenced by this book and the way it is told.
Huge, major, innsabely big influence on my life and world view.As I write this, I am beginning to get more than just a little wig fried out by the fact that he and I have had some very similar lives.- We both discovered a music that changed our lives.-We hve both devoted most of our lives toward promoting and playing what we consider to be "the real stuff."Mezzrow and myself have both experienced the horrors of drug addiction.We both sing the praises of Marijuana, and it's potential for improving mental health and creativity.Mr. Mezzrow and myself share the same story telling abilities.He was The original hipster.
Really the Blues is the story of Milton Mesirow, a Jewish kid from Chicago possessed by jazz and black culture, as told to Bernard Wolfe.
With its hip jive-talk and descriptions of clubs, dens and prisons, it captures an important time and place in American music.
I could’ve used an introduction that offered context and, as a piece, the book was a little long (and Mezz kind of a self-promoter).
I loved best his experiences in my home town of Chicago, his observant descriptions of musicians, and the details that speak for the era (how kids on street corners carried white handkerchiefs and mimicked Louis Armstrong’s stance).
Great book- wonderful historical insight and great tales- even though most of it probably isn't true!
The way-too-fun story of a white Jewish kid from Chicago who became ensconced in the nascent jazz scene (Dixie-sish, or anything pre-hard bop) in Chicago, New York, and Paris during the 20s and 30s, and who later came to identify himself as African-American.As you can see, there's a lot of appeal here.
Mezz, a mediocre hornblower at best, did perform with and helped bring together a lot of New Orleans-sound bands and musicians, so he was kind of an instrumental pivotal player through the scene while being a bit player instrumentally.
But it’s also a lexicon of hip slang of the time, the development of early jazz and championing the plight of black Americans.
By the end of the book, Mezz has basically transitioned to a black man, or at least the prison categorizes him as one and holds him in a cellblock for black prisoners (Mezz is in and out of jail a lot).
At the end of the book there are several appendixes on the music and the slang, but most interesting is by Mezz’s co-writer, the sci-fi scribe Bernard Wolfe, who explores the concept of where negrophilia and negrophobia meet.
Gotta love Mezz.
A true character from the earlier days of jazz.
It's a very enjoyable and entertaining book.
Mezz was around when it all happened and made some records with many jazz greats of the era - but truth be told - he was there mainly as a source of marijuana to musicians such as Louis Armstrong and Sidney Bechet, etc.
They tolerated his playing and he kept them high.
Many of the older musicians got a kick out of this book,but viewed it as an attempt at self promotion.
Mezz was one of a kind.
Mezzrow represents a huge gap in my knowledge of the development of jazz and blues.Mezzrow was a Polish-American Jew who became fascinated with the creative sounds arising out of the Southern black cultural music we know as blues, now loved around the world.
This broke another barrier in society and music.Alex was able to develop big band arrangements, but maintain the style and format of the original New Orleans-Chicago format Louis was known for and Mezzrow as committed to promote.
Presented here is the life of Mezz Mezzrow - "the guy, behind the guy" in the Jazz world.
Drug addict, drug pusher, and good friends with - and musical director of - Louis Armstrong, Mezz tells the story behind the scenes of the jazz explosion of the 20s and beyond.
Written in Harlem vernacular, you don't need to understand jive to dig his story, you can simply dig the language itself; however, if you're not a jazz aficionado, the many people/musicians Mezz writes about will be completely foreign and seem somewhat insignificant to the plot-line - but how can one equate one's life with a plot-line anyway?
Malgré que ce soit tiré par les cheveux de temps en temps, ce livre porte malheureusement bien son titre français un peu ringard, "La rage de vivre". Magnifique portrait du Chicago south-side et du Harlem des années 20-40, au travers de la passion d'un juif blanc pour la culture noire. On y croise Bix Biederbecke, Louis Armstrong, Gene Krupa, Sidney Bechet, et de magnifiques compagnons de prison. À recommander aux fans de New Orleans et aux fervents d'Henry Miller.
A rare historical document of the blues musician during its golden age. Mezz grew up in the streets during the '20s and he describes life as a musician isn't a bed of roses. In addition to the musical history lesson, this book is peppered with the hip lingo that cool jazz cats used back in the day.
Formed my character.
One of my favorite books of all time!
My take: http://artsfuse.org/142780/fuse-book-...
Perhaps the greatest book about music ever.

I learned to play the sax in Pontiac Reformatory." Mezz Mezzrow.One of the best books about jazz I've ever read.
A white Jewish kid from Chicago, Mezzrow claims to learned from playing on the street and then honing his skills from his stints in reform schools and prisons where he was allowed to play with the negro inmate bands.By following Mezz from Chicago to New Orleans, Paris and New York City we not only get to enjoy the story of an unlikely and adventurous life, we are treated to an amazing behind the scenes look at the jazz world that makes this required reading for anyone even mildly interested in jazz or American culture in general.
The book is an autobiography first released in 1946 about Mezz Mezzrow, a white kid from the north-side of Chicago who not only loved jazz and blues, but felt strongly attracted to the entire Black race.
It looked like he might spend his entire life behind bars for pointless and absurd crimes, yet his love of music and the people that made it seemed to offer him hope.
The book is chock full of colloquial expressions and 'jive talk' that really makes you feel like you are part of the groundbreaking era at the birth of the modern jazz age.
If you want to learn about jazz, but also want an entertaining and vibrant look at the era, this is the book.I read this as a teenager when I asked my Dad what book I should read to learn about jazz. Without a fraction of a second of hesitation, he said "Really The Blues" by Mezz Mezzrow.Name the figure you want to learn about from the truly gritty and heady part of the jazz scene. Now go pick this up and read it.Opening line: "Music school? Are you kidding? I learned how to play sax in Pontiac Reformatory."
Damn this Mezz is hip. This is his life story and it's full of funny stories, characters and a commitment to spreading the gospel of jazz and blues. He hung out with some heavy hitters including Louie Armstrong, Al Capone, James P Johnson and became a fixture in Harlem. Pretty cool and unique for a white guy in the 1st half of the 20th century. His dedication to jazz and writing this book actually did change the world.
A fellow Tom Waits' lover recommended this book to me because Tom cites it as one of his favorite books. I have had so much fun with this book on so many levels. I've learned a new language, discovered new jazz musicians, learned about jazz in its coming of age, all while reading a fantastic story of a passionate Jewish kid making the jazz scene. I'm taking this one slowly as I simply do not want it to end.
A really great look at the jazz scene in Chicago in the 1930s, through the eyes of a first generation Russian American Jew who decide to become a "voluntary Negro." Good friends with Louis Armstrong, a musician in his own right and chronicler of Jive language, Mezzrow was probably the most famous distributor of Cannabis this country has know , from the time it was still legal.
A whole bio written in jivey hepcat talk? That may sound pretty dang annoying, but I truly love this book. It's an anomaly, written by an anomaly, a white musician who "went black" in the thirties and forties. Great jazz milieu anecdotes told like it's late at night in the dressing room. Or in a car full of reefer smoke.
This book made a huge impression on me when I was about 13 years old -- early 1960s, suburbs of NYC. It taught me something about the world of jazz, but more importantly, that the clean suburban life was not the only reality. For better or worse, this was a life forming book (along with On The Road and other beat prose and poetry).
A hugely enjoyable exercise in shameless self promotion. Lots of the claims Mezzrow makes for himself, he'd struggle to verify but its none the less entertaining for that.I can see why Waits (who I'm also a big fan of) likes it so much, I think its also the source of his lyric "Jim Crow's directing traffic with them cemetery blues"
Very entertaining first-person account of jazz's infancy by one of its seminal players (although I did get a little weary of Mezzrow being impressed with his own authenticity, and with his refusal to let jazz evolve).
Enjoyable read. Found it through Keith Richards' bio Life where he cited it as his early introduction to blues music and culture. Loved the glossary of terms as well. Worth reading and fun.
On the recommendation of former bandmate and friend of 50+ years, I'm adding this to my to-read shelf.
Read this on Keith Richards's recommendation from his autobio. Great book on early jazz, Chicago, Harlem, and marijuana. Had to request it from library storage.
essential reading. excellent book.
