https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8581936-supernaturally
What a breath of fresh air!With so many end-all-be-all dystopian apacolypse YA books  out there, it's a relief to finally find one that breaks the mold. “My life is a black hole of boredom and despair.""So basically you've been doing homework.""Like I said, black hole.”  Evie was created by the fairies as an "Empty One." She longs to suck the soul out of anyone supernatural...almost as much as she longs to go on a date  with her boyfriend (Lend) or go shopping.She's finally managed to  escape th
Evie was created by the fairies as an "Empty One." She longs to suck the soul out of anyone supernatural...almost as much as she longs to go on a date  with her boyfriend (Lend) or go shopping.She's finally managed to  escape the clutches of the International Paranormal Containment Agency - aka IPCA aka her old job - and is experiencing a "normal" life...which consists of lockers (yay), her boyfriend (double yay!) and...gym class (ugh).But just when things settle down (aka they get boring), life throws her a curve ball.
I really enjoyed the give-and-take between Evie and Lend from the first book.
Moves like Buffy as sung to Lyndsey by Evie, set to Moves like Jagger by Maroon 5Do you see these scars?I can go all nightYou know in your heartThat you aren't rightI'll take you awayTo the IPCAYeah, you better behaveYou're in my controlSo don't fight meNow let's take a strollDon't you bite meYou say I'm a sheepWell, I think you're a creepI don't give a BLEEPAnd it goes like this...Take me by the the handAnd I'll go with youThrough the faerie landsAnd I'll showI got them moves like BuffyI got t
She is assigned a new and mysterious escort named Jack who begins to cause all sorts of problems for Evie, even though she already has enough problems of her own, including the relationship with her paranormal boyfriend, Lend.
(hide spoiler)]Lend was a refreshing character in the first book and I enjoyed the seemingly natural progression of his relationship with Evie.
That was an actual line in the book, Supernaturally, by Evie about Lend.
Or I'm assuming, since I never had the pleasure of reading or watching it for myself.Things this book may have in common with Sweet Valley High:Annoying blonde guy.Group sports!Jealous boys!!Long distance relationship angst!!!Characters who can literally suck the soul right out of you.
GOOD.Let me just say I was torn between reading at a crazy, feverish, I-am-consumed-by-this-book pace and slowing down to savor each delicious word and laugh-out-loud line.As I ended up reading Supernaturally in 3.5 hours, I obviously opted to drink from the fire hose instead of sipping daintily from a tea cup.Kiersten White, you are the word maestro.
(I just had to throw that little ode in to one of my favorite new characters of 2011.)I don't know if Jack has a real-life inspiration, but if he does, heaven help that boy's poor mother.Kiersten White knows her stuff.
(Part Un was my Paranormalcy review) In this second installment of the Paranormalcy series, Kiersten White picks back up with Evie and the gang after the gaggle of events that occurred at the end of book one.
But things are not fine and dandy in the paranormal world (are they ever?) and there is an unexplained influx of paranormals in town, some of the elementals are disappearing, Evie’s sister is appearing in her dreams, and a weird boy who can navigate the Faerie Paths shows up out of seemingly nowhere.
Kiersten White impressed me with her sense of humor, fun storyline, and consistent writing in Paranormalcy.
She even says herself towards the end that she wasn't thinking (view spoiler)[ when she realizes that she could have tried other colleges close to Georgetown in order to be close to Lend only after ignoring 4 other people telling her to do that the whole book!
In Supernaturally, however, she seemed to turn into a bit of a Bella Swan and think that the dangerous, stupid, things were the best way to go, like follow Jack- who she doesn't really even know- and leave Lend.
Actual rating: 2.5 stars"My life is a black hole of boredom and despair.""So basically you've been doing homework.""Like I said, black hole."Is it a bad thing that I saw that plot twist coming half a book before it actually happened?
I mean, Evie having a taser called - get this - Tasey is now getting on my nerves; I thought a badass main character who still liked hot pink and sparkly dresses was cool, but now it just seems overdone; Raquel's various types of sighs used to be funny, but now they aren't.
Whatever flaws the story had, the novel had charm in a world of YA books gone shallow and insipid, unrelatable and inane, and I was hopeful to read the next installment even if I thought that Evie's story could have stayed open-ended with readers imagining what her future might hold after she has gained some semblance of normalcy.
Will the author potentially be able to make the novels tied up plot-wise on their own so that any reader can feel satisfied by finishing one novel without needing to read the rest?
When I first time heard about Kiersten White I was about 16-17 years old.
I saw “Paranormalcy” accidentally on book store with good price, so I bought it.
It was fantasy genre and I didn’t care about the details at the moment.
And I have to say that I really enjoyed first book and I couldn’t wait for opportunity to read the second one.
However, it took me about even 3 or 4 years to get a chance for that.
Again, before taking “Supernaturally” from library I didn’t thought twice.
I loved first book and I felt sure that this one will be even better.
(Actual Rating: 3.5 stars)Wow. I really should've reread Paranormalcy before I started this.Kiersten White did very little review at the beginning of SUPERNATURALLY, which lead to a very confused Hayden.This was me: [image error]I was trepid going into this book.
They said the characters fell flat (specifically Lend) and it suffered from being the middle book in a trilogy.
I'm really liking the direction the plot is going.The reason I said I should've reread PARANORMALCY before reading this is because I forgot who some characters were (Vivian, especially), and I forgot what happened in the climax.
Fun, quirky, energetic, amusing and highly entertaining!
Supernaturally is just as great as the first book.
And if you thought Evie was a hOOt then ya'll are gonna love Jack!
Despite all things he's such a crazy-fun character who will have you laughing out loud the minute you meet him.
And lets not forget about Lead, He's just as irresistible and adorable as ever.
Love him!!
If your looking for a break from the more serious paranormal reads then look no further.
This book is the perfect combination of easy going-happy go lucky with a lot of fun mishaps along the way.
I kept thinking as I was reading this that the Evie we meet in Supernaturally is going to be hard for some fans of Paranormalcy to swallow.
Just as Evie needed to go through these hard, angsty times to come into her own (I hope) and grow, I think there are a lot of things that either happen or are hinted at that give a sense that the story is much bigger.
2,5 typischer Zwischenband und super langweilig
My favorite scene was the march of the Fey heading to the boat. Very Lord of the Rings. I also really love the fairy doors or gateways and the idea of getting lost inside one is terrifying! I like the new paranormal creature additions to the series. Very cool.
(Also, I'm exceedingly grateful to Kiersten White for providing me with the first book I've read in weeks that I actually tore through instead of that painful plodding process where I have to put it down every three chapters.)Basically, Evie's new life in the normal human world is not as charming as she had imagined.
And while I appreciate Ms. White's efforts to put a healthy relationship at the center of a paranormal book - seriously, thanks - I think that at times it was sort of bland.
First of all, I have to say that I'm a huge Kiersten White fan and I loved Paranormalcy so it really pains me to have to write a rather negative review for Supernaturally.
It was just okay for me and nothing more.So like I said I loved the first book.
The sad thing is, I liked her a lot in Paranormalcy.
This book is full of them and that was probably the thing I liked best.
I always love books that have several creatures that are either unique or unknown to me.
I really like her writing, even in this book.
I'm giving this one 4 1/2 stars, with this book I laughed, I cried, I got mad at Jack when I found out what a jerk he was to Evie but then on the other side of the coin who can blame him? he wanted revenge. I liked Reth a lot more, and Lend: Well he just jumped to the top 10 of great Paranormal boyfriends.
The best part is that Evie sees it too, and watching her grapple with the confusion this leads to adds the depth of both character and plot that elevates Kiersten White from “good writer” to “superb writer.” Middle books are differentI was blown away by Paranormalcy, and while Supernaturally is made of awesome it doesn’t quite hit the same mark Paranormalcy did.
Don’t get me wrong, the story is still fun and there’s still a mysterious aspect to unravel (which I sadly managed to figure out too soon), but it didn’t have the same edge-of-your-seat feeling that I loved so much.In some ways Supernaturally is very much a “middle of a trilogy” book, but in this case that isn’t a bad thing.
ahhhhhhhhh yay another! i loved the first book it was so different from everything paranormal ive read it was amazing and a half! such a cute relationship between evie and lend please dont let anything happen to them! i love how evie got so excited over lockers in the first book hehe and how she carries around her taser (tasey)! loved!
Supernaturally (Paranormalcy #2), Kiersten White
When I read Paranormalcy last year I didn't expect to love it so much - but I did, I fell in love with Evie and her love of pink and with Lend.
Evie has to find her place in the world, she has to find herself and she has to learn not only to trust herself but also the person that love her.
I can only tell you that you shouldn't be afraid of this second book, you won't be disappointed, it is as awesome as Paranormalcy and the ending is wonderfully perfect.
Zzzzzzzzzzzz.Dear book, Maybe it's not you.
After all, from the beginning things did not look good.
In fact, if I read the word "liebchen" again I was going to feed myself to the vamp just to be out of misery.You and I had a good run of it though.
I do appreciate the fact that you are sweet still, non-smutty and sometimes the pages that I didn't skim through could have some cute things here and there.
Also, let your author know: no more overly cute awknowledgements.
Please do not make book 2 just a mindless exercise in getting to number 3.Don't worry, I have an 11 year old.
Mostly Evie abruptly going places to do nothing then ending up back right where she started.White's teenage voice is alarmingly realistic.
I'm going to read Mind Games but if it's the same voice, I'll probably stop reading White.
It reads like a teenager wrote the book - not enough detail in some places, too much in others, a jarringly abrupt narrative and a lack of logical flow of thought from the protagonist.
Floating around vaguely threatening but not really, much like (view spoiler)[Sam in Hallowed.
Me and my best friend Tyler ADORE this series. White has such a way of evolving the glamours into thick descriptions, telling us about paranormals we haven't, or have heard about. Jack is hilarious, and absolutely adorable. Lend is..... starting to get boring, as much as I love him. And Reth is.... still up in Evie's face all the time.I'm more than halfway through it, and can't wait to finish it. I adore this book, no flaws detected!
The plot is more defined, although personally I feel like some of the characters don't have enough substance.
I like Evie, but I suffered some serious problems with her in this book.
Lend was still a sweet character, and I do like him for Evie.
I find him rather bland personally, but he's definitely got some things going for him.I was happy to see the return of Reth, even if he does have a new name now.
He just has that sexy, mysterious allure.Several new characters and introduced in this book, but by far the most important is Jack.
Ich fand die Evie im ersten Band ja schon naiv und etwas zu girly, aber ihre kleinen Abenteuer mit ihrem "Tasey" waren schon ganz lustig.Tja, dieses Mädchen ist weg.
Sie ist eins von diesen typischen Mädchen, die ihr Leben einzig und allein auf ihren Kerl ausrichtet.
Ihre Naivität und Sturheit waren kaum aushaltbar.Ich möchte auch gar nicht von den anderen Charakteren anfangen, wie Lend zb.
ugh.Die Story plätschert nur so vor sich hin, und lediglich die 20-30 Seiten kurz vor dem Ende waren spannend.
Ein bisschen Neugierde habe ich schon.2.5 Sterne
I didn't like this as much as the first book. I wanted more action. It was kinda slow and boring for me. Still it was a fast cute read and I will read the third and final book in this trilogy. Hopefully the third book is more action packed.
2,5 tähteäIhan viihdyttävä tekele, vaikkakin täysin turhanpäiväinen. Nopealukuisuudesta plussaa.
Nothing felt like it was happening for natural reasons - everything was there just to create some kind of story.
Somewhere between the first and the second book, she turned into a complete idiot, and the most aggravating part of that was that it was just so Kiersten White had a story to tell.
The only good thing about this book was that we at least got a a few answers, such as what Evie actually is and where she came from.
I got the feeling that either this book was heavily edited, or White herself just couldn't really be bothered giving it her all.
Will I read the third book?
Luckily I wasn't let down and this one remains to be another incredible and fascinating story.I was so happy that the relationship between Evie and Lend was just as beautiful and growing naturally, they are such an adorable and perfect couple and fit perfectly together giving both of them the normal life they both needed and needed together.
She is a stronger and more powerful paranormal than she ever realised which was so fascinating to read, her ability is coming to life and more and more things she can do, I dare say in the last book she will progress even more.
You see, I attached my raving review for it, so it really pains me to have to do this.....Dun Dun Dun. This book sucked.
No really, I mean it flat out sucked.
I just started a new job, so my reading time is reducing, so I clearly don't want to waste my precious book time on crap....
Book #1 was new, fresh, exciting and fast-paced.
Even with the new addition of the character Jack it was still boring.
I kept holding out because of foresaid book 1, thinking things would blow me away...
I'm so dissapointed.and now onto bigger and better things like !!!
