https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333063.The_Human_Zoo
در نهایت صرف نظر از اینکه ما چه اقدامی بکنیم، چیزی برای کاستن تراز جمعیت انسانی به میان خواهد آمد.
حالا و در این لحظه ما فرصتی برای انتخاب داریم، می توانیم کار را به تصادف واگذار کنیم یا آنکه بکوشیم خود بر اوضاع مسلط شویم.
پیشگیری از علاج بهتر است و اگر چیزی قرار است نابود شود، ترجیح میدهم اسپرم و تخمک باشد تا انسانهایی رشدیافته و متفکردربارهی کتابدزموند موریس در کتاب قبلی خود به اصل و ریشه نوع انسان پرداخته و از عنوان کتاب، میمون برهنه، مشخص است به چه نقطهای رسیده.
این موضوع که انسان اولیه و نئ
موریس در لفافه می‌گوید خودمان باید به شیوه‌ای بخشی از جامعه انسانی را از میان برداریم تا جلوی انقراض کامل نوع بشر گرفته شود و بدین منظور بهتر است از بارداری و تولد پیشگیری کنیم تا اینکه بخواهیم انسان‌های رشد یافته و بالغ را از میان برداریمچند پاورقیاول - کتاب در زمان خودش جنجال زیادی به پا کرده و باورهای بسیاری را به چالش کشیده، اما باید این موضوع را در نظر بگیریم که از زمان نگارش و چاپ کتاب 42 سال می‌گذرد و در این سال‌ها علم پیشرفت زیادی کرده و باورهای علمی دچار تغییرات زیادی شده‌اند، پس نباید توقع داشت با کتابی به‌روز و پر از ارجاعات روبرو شویم.
اگر هنوز فکر می‌کنید که انسان اشرف مخلوقات است، که تمام هستی برای او بوجود اومده، پیشنهاد می‌کنم این کتاب را بخونید.
این کتاب خواندنی که به بررسی شباهت های حیوانات در بند و انسان تحت اسارت زندگی شهری و محصور در محدودیتهای فرهنگی و اجتماعی می پردازد،با عنوان باغ وحش انسانی در سال1354 توسط مهندس پرویز پیر به فارسی برگردانده شده است
In scholarly circles, I understand that Desmond Morris is not taken very seriously nowadays. His anthropological observations of the human race are seen as too simplistic. However, I have always found his analysis to be relevant and highly enjoyable. Here, the human animal is observed in urban surroundings - according to the author, this is equivalent to the limited surroundings of a zoo. Animals exhibit many "deviant" behaviours under captivity: Morris illustrates, in highly entertaining fashion, how the same is applicable to the city dweller. Rather than being a concrete jungle, the city is a "human zoo".Extremely readable and engaging.
I read this book shortly after reading the naked ape.
I thought it was a great book.
The human animal acts just like the animals it claims to be "superior to".
the economist started using money on the monkeys ....
once they learned the coins had value ..., the female monkeys, prostituted themselves, sex for money ....
When I was in Saudi Arabia, two female soldiers were court martialed because they were prostituting.
the men didnt liked it so they accused the female soldiers of prostitution.
When the monkeys discovered the value of a dollar, they stole the coins.
Setting the standard for evolutionary psychology "just so" stories, Morris demonstrates that at least in this case evolutionary psychologists tell us more about their own biases than the human past.
In Morris's analysis, the cause and effect of human evolution are crystal clear and all happen to mesh neatly with his own biases, including his sexism and homophobia.
His "ten commandments of dominance," upon which he claims human relationships are based, are often absurd, such as the commandment, " You must suppress squabbles that break out between your subordinates." This of course ignores the many situations in which power is maintained by dividing subordinate groups so that they can't organize against those in power.
A zoo environment would certainly exacerbate such behavior but it doesn't create it.The stuff about maintaining tribal identity in a world that does not offer true tribes was interesting.I thought I would like this book a lot more than I did.
The single dominant human is therefore doomed to struggle on, behaving publicly like a tribal leader, with panache and assurance, while in private he grapples laboriously with the almost impossible tasks of super-tribal control.""The flaw i the social dropout's solution is that he does not really drop out at all: he stays put and pours scorn on the rat race that surrounds him.""The vast majority of all sports, pastimes, hobbies and 'good works' have as their principle function not their specifically avowed aims, but the much more basic aim of follow-the-leader=and-beat-him-if-you-can.
Un interesante análisis de la naturaleza biológica del ser humano, porque, aunque queramos racionalizar todo y apartarnos de nuestro lado salvaje, no somos más que animalitos en un zoo humano.Fue un MINDFUCK en cada apartado, haciéndome decir WOW a cada comparación humana con los animales salvajes.
Tanta cosa que al parecer son completamente normales en nuestro día a día, pero que tienen una raíz aún más profunda y, sobre todo, antiquísima y prehistórica.Lo único con lo que pude decir "NO" fue con el apartado donde ve a la homosexualidad como una desviación y una malgrabación.
1969 and a real forward thinker. While in 2012 the views have been updated and put within the context of today's cultural norms, this was and is a ground breaking book. Accessible, informative and a reflection on behaviour patterns. His contemporaries, such as Lyall Watson step out the shadows of this great author and command great books and acclaim themselves. Recommended reading and follow with his own students books.
What happens when you take people who are biologically programmed to live in groups of less than 200 and cram them into large dense cities? This book describes the interesting behavior patterns that play out from politics to sex.There are so so so many levels to this book. It is worth many reads.Every human should read this book!Nick Arkesteyn
Can't believe this was written in the late sixties. This is one wonderful book that puts forth with all honesty why the urbanized human being is so violent as well as vulnerable. This book is really thought provoking and definitely would change the world view after reading.
nếu vượn trần trụi chỉ ở mức hay vừa phải thì tới vườn thú người thật sự ấn tượng, rất ấn tượng.
Đây chính là nguồn gốc của những sự phân biệt đối xử, sự giao tranh, gây hấn, thậm chí là nội chiến (nhìn trên quan điểm sinh học).Chương 6: Đấu tranh và nhận kích thích cũng lý giải được nhiều tình huống tâm lý cũng như sự căng thẳng về tinh thần mà con người phải chịu đựng trong tình trạng siêu bầy đàn hiện nay.Điểm trừ của cuốn sách này với mình đó là sự thiếu đi một lời kết đẹp.

The human zoo is a continuation of Morris' earlier book, the naked ape.
Inasmuch as I can understand, the animal behavior is employed as a kind of looking glass to examine the human behaviour.
In this fashion, the human society is examined and shown to be like the zoo, where animals are living in unnatural habitat.
The crux of Morris argumentation lies in his premise that human species are not biologically ready to live in a giant metropolis.
Despite the critics, I believe the book is readable and if is not completely sceintific, at least gives us a new lens to look differently at life matters.
Đó là trò chơi đã và đang diễn ra trong suốt quá trình phát triển của nhân loại, là một trò chơi hào hứng và cũng là nguy hiểm nhất.
Tác giả Desmond Morris đã kể cho chúng ta nghe câu chuyện đó không phải dưới khía cạnh cảm xúc - lý trí, hay Thiện - Ác, mà qua từng góc cạnh nhỏ nhất của đời sống đang diễn ra sôi động từng ngày trước mắt chúng ta : địa vị, tình dục, chiến tranh, sáng tạo.
Nói không quá khi cho rằng đây là quyển sách nền tảng cho tất cả các vấn đề của loài người hiện đại.
Not bad
Essential reading for the captive, urban animal.
Good for every library
(Interesting, fifty years later, folk art and DIY culture is pushed the fore in some ways as an example of leisure and class--one has time to make a beaded necklace, instead of working!) Likewise, people commit violent acts against less powerful creatures, be they animals, children, family, or themselves.
Here, then, Morris says, is one result of our city, our human zoo: violence and consumerism to show status within the tribe.The next means by which status is shown has to do with sex.
Such an example rather makes his larger point seem more tendentious, for if country living leads to such actions, then the issue is not lack of stimulus caused by the city.
1969.An older book off of my “To Read Pile” This book operates from a hypothesis that we modern humans are essentially the same biologically and evolutionary wise as those hunter gathers making the transition to civilization (defined as agriculture) that actions and reactions to stimuli evolved for survival in small groups of hunter gatherers and we are living in conditions that our evolutionary make-up has not caught up to.
An Amazonian tribesman is equally as intelligent as say a citizen of Manhattan, NYC but their education is predicated on survival in their environment and vice versa.
Mr Morris basis almost all of his theory (or at least did at the time - I read the original 1969 version) on his observations as a zoologist.
Nevertheless, the extrapolation of his observations, including parallels to the animal world, rang true to me where most of his theories regarding our unsuitability for living in a 'super-tribe' go.
However, I cannot deny that Mr Morris caught the scent of a good idea back in the 60's, and this book does put an interesting perspective on the challenges and issues we face today.
Ενώ έχει ενδιαφέρουσες ιδέες, αποτυγχάνει πλήρως στη διερεύνηση του "ανθρώπινου" ζώου ως μέλος μιας κοινότητας που έχει δικές της αρχές, δυναμικές, σχέσεις και αλληλεξαρτήσεις.
Βλέπει τα πάντα υπό την οπτική του ατόμου και των επιδράσεων που υποτίθεται ότι έχουν διάφορες θεωρίες στον τρόπο συμπεριφοράς του.
Στο πλαίσιο αυτό και τα υπόλοιπα κοινωνικά φαινόμενα (θρησκευτικό, πολιτικό κλπ) εξετάζονται μόνο ως συναρτήσεις εξατομικευμένων στάσεων και επιλογών.Το βιβλίο πάσχει και από πλευράς τεκμηρίωσης (είναι πιο "εκλαϊκευμένο" από ότι ίσως θα έπρεπε), έχει πολύ περιορισμένη βιβλιογραφία, σε μεγάλο βαθμό στηριγμένη σε δημοσιεύσεις του ίδιου του Μόρις, ενώ τα συμπεράσματα που εξάγει για τον άνθρωπο από παρατηρήσεις σε είδη ζώων εντελώς διαφορετικών κάποιες φορές μοιάζουν πολύ "βολικές" για να στηρίξουν τις θεωρίες του.
Interesante análisis antropológico de las condiciones que el ser humano tiene que enfrentar en la sociedad moderna que hemos constituido y sus efectos en nuestra counducta. A pesar de que es un libro editado a finales de los sesentas, muchas de las propuestas de Morris siguen siendo aplicables en nuestros días. Claro que algunas posturas han debido de ser revaluadas, pero en su conjunto, constituye una guía eficaz para ayudarnos a entender algunas de las claves de nuestro comportamiento ante el hacinamiento y el entorno competitivo que debemos de enfrentar con el día a día.
This is continuation of study of human animal, describing how all our main characteristics have been developed into the extreme in our super-societies of our cities. After reading this, I am not surprised that mental problems are so prevalent in our society. We just can't help it - it's not natural. Moreover, it makes me scared for the future where everything is even more global, there are even more people both in our physical lives and on the other side of our computer connections... Information and social life overload is crazy.
Interesting read, but unfortunately does not hold up well scientifically. Morris does not explain how and why humans are comparable to animals; nor does he explain to what extent they are comparable, if they are comparable. While there are many statements of facts throughout the book, Morris fails to explain why they are relevant and what scientific evidence there is to explain that relevance (correlation =/= causation).
For a young person it gives a good picture and perspective of true human person, not the one who wants to be caged between bricks and concrete.
Leí una versión en español
Fascinating comparisons of behaviour between caged animals and urban dwellers, using multidisciplinary theories. Topics covered are fairly wide but written in concise manner.
Some book come and replace all other bookThis book one as suchThe best was analysis of human nature
This is amazing book
