https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372384.The_Final_Detail
Bolitar is back, and this time it is baseball!As always, a great combination of mystery and sarcastic humor.
As the books are never all that long, Coben gives me a quick, fun reading fix every time I come back to the adventures of Myron and Win. If you are a fan of funny mystery series with outlandish characters and great twists, this is the series for you!One thing about Coben, too, is that his mysteries are always so shocking in their revelation, you cannot discuss too much without spoilers.
If you like sports combined with your mystery, you must check the Bolitar series out!
These are more my thoughts, as I have this book and #7 to review too long after reading.Myron is such a complex character, and in this instalment we learn so much more about him.
Being my favourite fictional character, I am very happy about this.
Jessica was always a little 'off' in my opinion, and I was not surprised to see Myron fall for another so openly, and devastated for him that this also, was not meant to be.
I love how Win found Myron after his disappearance and asked no questions - well he never needs to really, they know each other so well.
Myron liked to roll.
Number 6 in the series and still going well! Poor Myron is in a bad place in this one and he has to fight back as his life unravels around him. Of course the amazing Win is there to help him. The mystery in this one is good. I absolutely failed to guess whodunnit largely because of all the false leads along the way. I also read the whole thing in one day which always indicates a very good book!
The Final Detail by Harlan Coben is a 1999 Island Books publication.
This sixth installment picks up pretty much where the last book left off, with Myron nursing a broken heart and spirit, and finding comfort on a Caribbean Island.
By now I’ve begun to recognize the formula Mr. Coben uses in this series, but it never fails to suck me in.
The dire circumstances Esperanza faces immediately grabbed my attention, and from there, Coben took me on a wild, and often hilarious journey, before the tone turns very serious, as all the pieces begin to click into place.
Experience says so.The story goes as such: Myron has run away with Terese to some unknown place and nobody knows where, not even his best friends Win and Esperanza.
Clu Haid is not alive in the book, and yet you know his character completely.
But when you see the friendship and the innocence and the unconditional love for each other, you just end up wishing you too had such a 'best friend'.The one chapter between Myron and his dad is very beautiful.Somewhere in the book, Myron has one whole chapter dedicated to the thrills of baseball.
I love Myron!!! A 4 star book but adding another star 'just because' I hope this series never ends!!
Which in itself is good enough reason to purchase some of the books and have a read.Myron lay sprawled next to a knee-knockingly gorgeous brunette clad only in a Class-B-felony bikini, a tropical drink sans umbrella in one hand, the aqua clear Caribbean water lapping at his feet, the sand a dazzling white powder, the sky a pure blue that could only be God's blank canvas, the sun as something and rich as a Swedish masseur with a snifter of cognac, and he was intensely miserableThe sports agent Myron Bolitar has left his agency in the capable hands of his now partner Esperanza and has run of with a lovely news presenter with an amazing derriere to some remote Caribbean isle where they enjoy themselves with sex and beach.
I enjoyed the characters in this book most of all, plus the manner in which Coben explores the relationships between Myron and his associates, particularly Win who is F. Scott Fitzgerald meets Jim Harrison meets James Lee Burke sort of guy. Lots of plot twists and a fair amount of violence. A bit of leavening humor doesn't go amiss in this sort of story and Coben hands that over as well.
my first Myron Bolitar. I definitely came in in the middle of the series. In this outing, Myron has been sequested in the Caribbean following something from a previous book that I’m not sure of. But while he is gone a fraternity brother from Duke is killed, a baseball player he managed. His former secretary/business partner is arrested. Good writing, witty repartee but hard to come in in the middle of a series. I’d like to try an earlier one.
The 6th book in the Myron Bolitar series by Harlan Coben,A very good read from one of my favourite writers.Fast paced and at times humorous but always a great read.
Esperanza and his business are both in trouble and someone has obviously targeted Myron for ruin.This was one of the best of the stories to date as we not only get Myron’s brain but his heart.
As with all of the stories in this series, I didn’t figure out who was responsible for everything until it was revealed, though I did come close.
Myron’s turned a corner in this story, having to do some soul searching and making a final decision about his relationship with Jessica.
What's not to like about Myron Bolitar?! Another terrific story, maybe not quite as good as the previous book, but still great, with a very convoluted plot and no shortage of funny lines. Always enjoyable!
Really interesting and an easy read.
That this book is a quick pleasure to read at all despite this is testimony to the odd way Coben can tell a quirky story with otherwise believable characters, including a 3rd person narrator who has opinions and breaks the fourth wall, and a psychotic financial specialist who cannot let himself be seen in a busy place (in Home) and yet who runs his own business in a busy office in a Manhattan highrise.
Also strange was that Coben used the New York Yankees as a vehicle for one of his characters, who ends up being rather unsavory herself, and yet makes up a few ballclubs (like the New Jersey Dragons) for the mystery man to play minor league ball in.
The Final Detail is the sixth book of the popular Myron Bolitar series and begins with Myron and a beautiful woman on a small Caribbean island.
His best friend and confidant, Win arrives by yacht to tell him that Esperanza Diaz, Myron's partner in MB SportsReps, has been arrested for murder.
There's also the fact that Clu had withdrawn $200,000 from his investment account and his blood has been found in Myron's car, the car that was being driven by Esperanza.I really enjoy this series and it's turned into one of my favorites.
I just can't get enough of the Myron Bolitar series, it's like a very powerful magnet, and I'm the metal object trying to pull away from the magnet, HAHA!The Final Detail picks up shortly after the conclusion of One False Move, Myron Bolitar is on a mini vacation on a tropical beach with a woman he hardly knows which is going just about perfectly, until unexpectedly Win arrives to tell him that Esperanza is in trouble.
So now Myron, along with Win, must clear Esperanza's name and solve another dark mystery.The ending just blew me away, and in a way it gives you a sense of right and wrong.
Two-haiku review:Myron is depressedEsperanza arrestedHe must clear her nameComplicated taleIssue of right versus wrongSins come back to haunt
What I LOVE about Myron Bolitar series is the friendship among the characters, how they'd do anything for their friends. Some background of Big Cindy is revealed in this book.You won't know the end until it end, a very nice fast pace reading.12/2 Just got this book via bookmooch. Couldn't find it in any library here in Holland.The funny thing is, the sender (from France) said that she bought it a long time ago in Holland:))
Como sempre uma combinação perfeita de mistério e humor sarcástico, uma leitura divertida, flui bem, diálogos inteligentes e mais uma vez com um desfecho surpreendente.Harlan vive fazendo seu leitor questionar sobre o certo e errado...Amo muito a amizade do Myron, Win e Esperanza ♥.Super indico não só esse, mas toda a série Bolitar, ou melhor leiam Harlan Coben.
Como sempre uma combinação perfeita de mistério e humor sarcástico, uma leitura divertida, flui bem, diálogos inteligentes e mais uma vez com um desfecho surpreendente.Harlan vive fazendo seu leitor questionar sobre o certo e errado...Amo muito a amizade do Myron, Win e Esperanza ♥️.Super indico não só esse, mas toda a série Bolitar, ou melhor leiam Harlan Coben.
This is my least favorite book of the Bolitar series.
I think part of the reason is that Myron is full of grief, guilt, and self-pity.
At one point, I had to question why Win even puts up with Myron and his constant questioning of Win's character and motives.
That, of course, only makes Myron investigate more, which puts him in all kinds of danger.
By the end of the book he figures out why Esperanza is protecting him.
However, it's a very unsatisfactory ending for me as a reader.
His plot, long winded and dull though it was, was interspersed with lots of genuine insights into relationships, male / female, father / son and friend to friend.I can see why Coben is using the detective genre as a vehicle, because it's hard to keeping coming up with stand alone books, but for me that was when his best work was done.All in all, an ok read, but long before the end I didn't care who did it, and just wanted to get it over and done with.
Een spannend boek met veel intriges en een verrassend einde
Interesting. Not great literature, but any avid reader would know that going into it. The book is written to be a vacation read, and it is a clever little mystery. And while it won't win any awards for great writing, the author does throw some unexpected substance in there occasionally. He approaches body image issues, the effects of living in an increasingly self-obsessed society, and the unpopular notion of a positive parental relationship just to name three. Harlan Coben might not be my favorite writer ever, but I think he would be a fascinating person to have lunch with.
8/10I could have predicted the rating of this book before reading it. Coben has a knack of writing solid thrillers, lots of intrigue and good characters. Myron and Win are in fine form here even if the plot isn't as good as some of the others in the series. Not one to read unless you've read the previous novel as there are a few plot threads that revolve around what happened in the previous book. Coben is becoming my literature version of fast food. Quick and easy but fills the spot.
This is #6 in the Myron Bolitar series, and I haven't yet read #3-5. There was some reference to a past relationship, where I had no idea what had happened, nor was it ever revealed. That sort of bothered me. And unlike #2 in the series where I was able to figure out the ending almost immediately, in this book there is no way anyone could figure it out unless they read ahead. But the main plot was well written and gripping to the end, as usual.
This book was weak. I think it was too focused on Myron's shortcomings. Not that the idea of a sports agent who solves crimes with his preppy murderous friend is at all realistic but I'm rolling my eyes a ton at this book. Myron is almost unlikable.I'm just not sure I get the hype about these novels. Nothing about them is particularly great.
Surprise....loved it! What I really love about Harlan Coben's Myron Bolitar series is Myron's continual emotional exploration of his life and his choices. These novels are always great fun mysteries AND Myron is continually questioning himself, his choices, his relationships as he moves deeper into his emotional life all whilst cracking jokes! There is much heart in these novels. LOVE THEM!
My first Harlen Coben novel and one that will keep me coming back for more. Well rounded characters and the right blend of mystery and reveal lead to a well realized plot and finale.
A true friend is there for you regardless.
That is what Myron is trying to do for Esperanza.
She's been arrested for murder and Myron is out to prove that she didn't commit the crime.The storyline is plausible; people will do anything for the love of money.
Win & Myron are good for each other.
They both have warped senses of humor, they are willing to go into the most dangerous places and come out unscathed.
This story reverts back twelve years ago to an incident that changed everyone life involved.This book is not for young readers.
It's too graphic, discusses alternative lifestyles, cross-dressing and murder.
The main character has a personality, but his intelligence varies sharply and awkwardly. He even has Spenser’s mode of searching. Then come hundreds of words at a time that Elmore Leonard would cut. Yet, with Doc Savage as Win, what are we waiting for? I enjoy some of it: the friendship of Win and Milo, Milo and Esperanza, Big Cindy.
