https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133621.Enormous_Changes_at_the_Last_Minute
Chances are, you probably haven't really noticed this, but if you consider the issue, and you notice that it's true, I really do want you to stop and think about why that is.There is no valid reason not to read women writers, but if you've been avoiding them unconsciously, don't beat yourself up about it.
I think this is the reason why Grace Paley's stories surprised me -- I was expecting something else, something less cool, because she's a Woman Writer with two capital Ws, and we're all scared those books are going to be like Little Women or something.
But he does not know where the money for all of life will come.
This book is a city and wears me out as such.
Nowhere is there the opportunistic grace of Let the Great World Spin, easier on the eyes and less real to the senses if I think back on my three-and-a-half year stint in LA.
The second day of reading this shock shock shock of too slow and you’ll miss it wit left me with a migraine, no less, and so I put this back and plunged into the lengthier things I’m more akin to.
War and Peace has
Nowhere is there the opportunistic grace of Let the Great World Spin, easier on the eyes and less real to the senses if I think back on my three-and-a-half year stint in LA.
ROBBING, MURDER, and PUTTING HEROIN IN YOUR BLOOD is bad.”
He had once killed a farm boy made crazy by crowds in the city.
“Too many people,” he screamed when he killed.
She’d shake her head at me, speedy reader that I am, but I did realize the sloppiness of my first effort and subsequently went back for a more serious combing, so I’m hoping she wouldn’t be too put out.
I don't know why I picked up this book today--I think it was a mention of her name in a Bookforum article that I read while I ate lunch and watched the snowstorm--but it was just right.
These stories make me feel like writing and storytelling are important, which is something I occasionally need to be reminded of.Paley's writing is super-sharp and her characters are precise and real.
It's an excellent collection for anyone who wants to get to know her work.…Paley captures a very quickly changing New York - and America - with her mostly unwed mothers raised in socialist households and trying to raise good citizens in a Vietnam War era (only as distant background) urban life, complete with rising concerns on over-population, pollution, crime, the downslide of American education and all that the future might become in such an atmosphere…Grace Paley’s stories are quirky, a little odd—the way she manipulates the language is a little out there, and I will always be fond of the puzzlement that comes over me when I’m reading her—especially her shorter work (two to four pages).
I read this collection of short stories as a part of Grace Paley’s book  The Collected Stories .
It's not often that my enjoyment of a book flags from beginning to end as much as it did with Grace Paley's Enormous Changes at the Last Minute.
It's attributable, probably, to her unmistakable voice that tends to become a little laborious by the book's end.
I also find myself only remembering her style and not so much her characters or her plots, which tend to become a little buried in the noise.It's certainly not a bad book, but I think its successes lean a little too heavily on the stylized narrative, largely at the cost of the other pieces required to make a successful short story.
this book was like meeting a stranger pal on the curb, having a heart-to-heart affirming that bastards are part of life then going about your business.
I feel kind of like a sucker, giving Paley's second collection five stars.I don't want to be this easily pleased.
But I felt like the stories themselves, and the worldview that shaped them, had gotten heavier with time, more self-absorbed.
Paley is much wiser, disillusioned, and measured in this collection, but her humor rings clear, and her experiments with form and handling of detail all force a change in rhythm when I read them.Characters from the early stories recur.
In "Conversations with My Father," the narrator's father wants her to tell a simple story about simple people, like a story by de Maupassant, and she says, "I would like to try to tell such a story, if he means the kind that begins: 'There was a woman ...' followed by a plot, the absolute line between two points which I've always despised.
Not for literary reasons, but because it takes all hope away.
Some will require multiple rereading to memorize funny lines.
Literary jitbags would deride the stories as "voicey" - but they're voices coming together - as the women singing in the story "Politics" - to secure a playground in an urban, sociopoliticized community.
"C'è un lungo spazio, in me, fra il sapere e il raccontare."Dice la protagonista di Debiti, il secondo racconto presente nella raccolta, e mi pare che talvolta questo spazio si espanda talmente che i significati vadano persi...Mi spiace Grace incipit bellissimi in alcuni racconti, frasi che colpiscono e affondano, sagace humor ebraico non possono bastare, bisogna anche saperli miscelare bene, le basi ci sono ma c'è qualcosa che non quadra...Spero vada meglio la prossima volta :)
There were some stories that I enjoyed more than others (Wants, Faith in a Tree, A Conversation with My Father, Enormous Changes at the Last Minute), but I'm not entirely sure those will even stay with me much longer.
Although I can tell Grace Paley was a talented and accomplished writer, her style is just not my thing.
I found most of the stories quite hard to follow, frequently losing my train of thought, and I'm not particularly a fan of stories in general that are incredibly heavy on the dialogue and less so on plot.
I'm glad I read it though as it was definitely something different!
Yes, Grace Paley is a unique teller of short stories.
Some of her stories are so short that they are over before you have gotten to know a character or what the story might be about.
Unfortunately, except for Faith, I didn't feel like I got to know anyone.
When the writer is also an artist, the art can accentuate the story.
But sometimes there is just the art, and it has nothing to do with the story.
That is Grace Paley for me, at least in this collection.
The art, however, did not help the stories.
Donald Barthelme once affectionately called her a troublemaker, but I don't know that it's strictly true. I think she just understood that trouble was never trouble at all--trouble is just everything that actually matters (the blood and money stuff that comes with caring)--and that we could do with a lot more of it.
Paley responds with: "I said I had learned everything I knew about the Yiddish theater to write one story." She is reluctant to dive deeper into history, even recent history, but her friend reminds her "It [would be] a pity to lose all this inheritance." As Paley reflects on her obligations, she comes to the conclusion that it is not her role to preserve the past, but it is vital for her to preserve, for history, the present reality of her community, "Actually I owed nothing to the lady who'd called.
I tried...I really tried.Not one short story appealed to me, not one!Stories were gritty, raw, hard to follow and manytimes just pointless! Bah.
Io sono e resto fermamente aristotelica, e questo lo devo non a letture del liceo (anche se, certo, il liceo, la scuola italiana e, in generale, la logica occidentale tutta sono modellate su Aristotele), ma più semplicemente a uno sceneggiatore italiano, Fabio Bonifacci, che nel suo blog ha teorizzato nel modo per me più convincente come chiunque voglia scrivere narrativa o sceneggiature sia obbligato a restare nell'ambito della poetica aristotelica.
In questo modello, il modello di Bonifacci, all'inizio di una storia la libertà dei personaggi è totale, tendente all'infinito.
Per cui, nel tempo T-10 del finale, non solo il personaggio deve avere subito qualche modifica (per colpa sua, delle sue scelte, del suo essere in vita e quindi soggetto alla scelta e all'errore), ma la sua libertà non è più la stessa dell'inizio T-0.
I've never visited, but it feels appropriate for me now to be able to review Grace Paley's collection of short stories as I travel to New York for the first time.
Often reviewers will talk about an author's voice metaphorically, but when "voice" is used with Paley it is meant as a descriptor.
In these stories, her exploration of New York voices is so varied and eccentric that it borders on genius.
I learned things about reading, writing, and other authors as I worked and thought my way through this.
It's a diffficult and sophisticated read, but worthwhile if you are a fan of the American short story.
Also a very funny story in places (especially if you resonate with a narrator who can never check off everything on her To Do list.) Accused by her ex-husband of having no wants, no desires, the narrator realizes that although she just fumbled along, raising children, living life day by day, she did indeed have wants.
Meanwhile her husband's aspirations are for making a better world for himself.
Just give him a fancy boat and he'll be happy and believe he's living a good life.There are many great stories in this collection, although I didn't connect emotionally to some as strongly as others.
It took me a couple stories to get into Paley's style - dialogue without quotations, frank, packed sentences.
Paley captures a very quickly changing New York - and America - with her mostly unwed mothers raised in socialist households and trying to raise good citizens in a Vietnam War era (only as distant background) urban life, complete with rising concerns on over-population, pollution, crime, the downslide of American education and all that the future might become in such an atmosphere, though the most recurring character, Faith, can't see the future.
And isn't that just the way life is.Thank you, Grace Paley.
There's a little sticker inside the front cover that says 'From the collection of Angela Carter.' Totally awesome.It's amazing what Paley can accomplish with such economy: absurdity, tragedy, sly comedy.
"Conversations With My Father," which I had read before, is still my favorite story in the collection, as she engages in two conversations - one with life, and one with art.
Of the reoccurring characters, my favorites were Alexandra and Faith, both women who find themselves a bit at a loss in modern life, but who provide a nice counterpoint to one another in how they confront this rootlessness (or is it being too rooted?) Anyway, I don't think female writers of short, short fiction like Amy Hempel would be able to do what they do without Grace Paley.
Stories mostly about socialist-y wives and/or mothers in the NYC area that were kind of hit and miss
I wanted to like this more than I did. An original voice, ahead of its time, sometimes raw and startling, but ultimately the prose held no rhythm for me and I didn't care about the characters whatsoever at all. I found it all a bit emotionally inaccessible and politically obscure, but perhaps I wasn't trying hard enough to connect.
I just got this in the mail via Bookmooch. Yay! I have heard tell that Grace Paley--who writes about urbane Jewish girls, ahem--doesn't care about plotting. She is more interested in what she calls "movement." Obviously, we're meant for each other.
This is the first book I ever read of Grace Paley. I had no idea what I had been missing. I remember sitting in college, devouring her books like a hungry child, hoping one day to only be half as great as this book was.
I appreciate the innovative things she does with the short story form and I love the way she paints New York (which manages to be both contemporary and old-school in stories like this). Just not my thing.
I think I'm supposed to like Grace Paley but I think I don't. She is kind hilarious, though.
I don't know that I loved every story in here (although the entire thing merits a second read) but Wants and Faith in a Tree are two of my favorite short stories of all time.
"wants" is one of my all-time favorite stories. this is a collection full of mothers and children and politics and change. it is a quick, but engaging read.
They are not really very pleasant places to be in, these stories, though they have lots of angry humor and amazing word constructions (I hesitate to say "descriptions," since the stories are notably short on visuals, and long on voice and sound, though I guess they are descriptions of a sort, of ideas or thoughts), which give the reader little nuggets of reward for sticking it out.
I didn't LOVE them in a really personal way—I found them a little suffocating, for all the reasons I mentioned—but I recognize their masterfulness, and I suspect people who lived through New York at the time would find them eerily accurate in a lot of ways.
These stories don’t seem bonkers, but then you’re in the middle of one and you’re like WAIT WHAT DID SHE SAY? and then bam! You’ve been Grace Paleyed big time.
This started very nicely, and has some high points.
