https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/502389.Babar_and_Father_Christmas
This story takes time.The interesting thing about this book is that the story of Santa is all different.
Santa lives in Bohemia.
Babar is on a quest to find Santa and invite him to the kingdom of elephants.
He goes all over looking for him, but not the North Pole.
In Bohemia he finds Santa living under ground.
Jean goes off script and just makes up his own stuff.
Each country has different traditions for sure and that's interesting to see.
The nephew didn’t like how long it was and the niece wasn't too into this story either.
Babar sets off to find father christmas and ask him if he could bring presents for the children of the land of elephants.
Father Christmas comes for a holiday in the land of elephants and passes on some equipment for Babar to continue the work of distributing toys in his own land.This is a lovely big book, lots of really interesting and beautiful illustrations.
We love the colours used and the cream paper it is printed on and the use of a grey background on some pages so that snow can be shown.
The illustrations of the elves in this were creepy and the font was cursive handwriting, otherwise good.
A strange little tale of how Babar solves the Santa problem in the land of the elephants.
In typically French fashion the story rambles along with interesting little asides like: "Celeste would have liked to go with him, but Babar told her that it would be better if she stayed and ruled the country in his absence, and that mysterious people often did not like to be approached by several people at once." There are lovely little observations like: "One always feels better after a good wash." And "The Professor examined the book carefully, uttering little grunts." There's something quirky about De Brunhoff's stories which give them a certain panache.
Long live Babar!
Babar sets out to find Father Christmas in this seventh picture-book from Jean de Brunhoff - published in 1940 as Babar et le père Noël, it was the final original Babar book, with all subsequent titles either written by de Brunhoff's son, Laurent, or by ghost-writers - intent upon asking him to include the land of the elephants in his annual Christmas voyage.
Although disappointed to learn that Father Christmas already has a full schedule for Christmas Eve, and cannot fit the elephants into his gift-giving trip, Babar does convince him to vacation in the land of the elephants, successfully setting up a seasonal relationship.I had mixed feelings about Babar and Father Christmas, which marks the end of my recent Babar reading project - after the initial title, 
My favourite illustration in BABAR AND FATHER CHRISTMAS is the double page (pp. 30-31) cross-section drawing of Father Christmas' house under the snow, up in the mountains, "about twelve miles from PRJMNESWE." Recently, when I first saw the cross-section drawings of the underground cities of Cappodocia in Turkey, my first thought was their resemblance to this drawing of Father Christmas' home and workrooms by Jean de Brunhoff. The book was drawn before Brunhoff's death in 1937, and first published in 1940.
A beautiful addition to the Babar collection, and a beautiful addition to any Christmas collection.
This was always one of my favorites and it still made me smile after many years. I want to go spend some time in Elephant land.
This is my favorite Christmas book of the season. There's a lot of life lessons woven into this story of Babar as he travels the world looking for Father Christmas so that he can bring him back to the Elephant Country with him. I loved the dog named Duck, and how the entire story plays out in such a believable manner given the fantastic nature of the characters. Just lovely!
Babar forever! I watch the animated version of this most years - so it was an interesting to see it in its original format. No Rataxes! It's so lovely, I especially love the double page illustration of the family around the Christmas tree.
I admit, I've never quite known what to think about Babar.
(Not to mention how to correctly say his name.
My husband and I have had hundreds of two arguments about whether it is Ba BAR' [me] or BAB' ar [he].) There is something unaffected about the simplistic colorful drawings and the stylish up-right pachyderm family that really appeals to me.
It may stem from the fact that as a child I never owned a Babar book and he was known to me only in a distant, library-check-out sort of relationship.
Intellectually, however, I know that these books are really not very well written.
This holiday version is the same: really not very well written, but cute and strangely enticing.
In this story, the elephant children of Elephant Country write to Santa Claus in the hopes that he will visit them just like he visits human children. When Santa expresses that he is too exhausted, Babar offers him the opportunity to relax in Elephant Country so he can recover. After he recovers, Santa still does not visit Elephant Country. Instead, he allows Babar to become the Santa Elephant there, promising to visit the following and all subsequent years. The elephant children receive their Christmas gifts and are very happy in the end.
I think we are reaching the point where it it time to start releasing "Classic" Babar stories in editions for adults with historical notes and commentary. While most have to be bowdlerized to meet modern standards of social correctness and I doubt their appropriateness for modern children, they are marvelous as primary source material on French society over a most significant period of the 20th century.
The text is in cursive writing. Zephir says that Father Christmas leaves toys in shoes. The friends write Father Christmas a letter and eagerly await a reply. They are sad as they don't receive a response.Babar finds the cave of Father Christmas and is helped back to health there (an alcohol rub, brandy and hot soup). Father Christmas visits with Babar and his family. He leaves him a real magical Santa suit.
The illustrations are cute. I never seem to love the actual story in Babar books. This one is about Babar looking for Father Christmas. He finally finds him and asks him to deliver presents to the elephants. Father Christmas says no, he is too tired. So then he and Babar go to Elephant Land so Father Christmas can get some rest and relaxation. I won't tell the ending...
Everyone's favorite elephant is on a special Christmas mission. Its time to go out, leave the Elephants' Country, find Father Christmas & ask him to deliver gifts to all the Elephants' Country children. Can Babar do it? Will he find Father Christmas in time? This is a job big enough for only the King of the Elephants to handle. =)
Pretty cute, but a little long for the content. It meandersI thought I had read all the Babar books when I was younger, but this was unfamiliar and I did not remember Brunhoff writing in the present tense.
A classic in its original language. I have forgotten both my french and the plot of this story, but I am pretty sure that it is worth a read.
A (quirky) classic!
Söt!
This book has pretty pictures in it. The story is nice, too.
So magical
One of my all-time favorite Xmas stories!
Babar meets Father Christmas
This is such a sweet book written in French that I may try to read aloud to my French 1 students. The illustrations are precious
A fantastic, Jesus-free Christmas book. Bonus points for a William Jones cameo, which should make linguists cream in their pants.
Babar !!!!!!!!!!!!
Tough to get into but it's worth it.
A very charming story that can be read all year.
Kind of long.2/28/17 Read with Naomi and Julia.
