https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26054.The_MacGregors
The main dude basically stalks the girl- sending her gifts after repeatedly being asked not to, showing up around them, arranging things so that they'll be bound by business, "forcefully kissing" her even after she's said no, and so on- wearing her down until, apparently, sheer animal lust or something takes over, and then she realizes that not only is this dude hot, he's perfect for her.
So, basically- the guy acts like a creepy asshole stalker/rapist/circa 1950s male until she realizes that her own dreams and ideas and reasons for not being with him are nothing compared to his ultimate hotness.
Caine si Diana m-au emotionat!
Our interchange went as thus: F: Well, what have you been reading?A: I dunno, I read halfway through the first MacGregor book but I had to stop because it was so bad.F: What do you mean?
Granted, it's not a steamboat and we're not in the 1800s, but all I could visualize from that point forward was:Not really that appealingSecondly, Justin's seduction of Serena went a lot like this:J: You want me (kisses Serena forcibly).S: No, I don't!
No amount of "But (dramatic pause) I LOVE YOU" that eventually comes later on in the book overrides the fact that he's an overbearing jerk.
Serena's story I liked.
Not spectacular but I enjoyed the story.
Caine's story was the most cringe worthy story I've read in a while.
I liked the characters and the plot wasn't bad but there were events and descriptions that just...
When Caine first sees Diana he thinks of her eyes as "camel eyes" but that's supposed to be a good thing?
and then soon after actually tells her she has "camel eyes"....
I can not imagine this in anyway being a compliment....granted these books were written back in the 80's and I still plan to probably read the other books in the series but its definitely no where near the top of my NR list.
Ok, so I used to really enjoy reading romance novels when I was a teenager.
I found this book in the teacher's lounge and figured, "What the heck?".
So I started reading it, and quickly realized how absurdly ridiculous these books are and especially the gender roles of the 80's (which seem to be very similar to those of the 1950's).
No means yes, she really doesn't know what she wants, etc.
Did I put the book down?
No. I finished it, so I guess it wasn't entirely horrible.
I hate leaving a book unfinished.
No more romance novels from 1985 for me.
In the case of Serena and Caine, their potential true loves come in the duo of Justin and Diana Blade - estranged siblings of Comanche descent who always fight for what they want and prefer to gamble when the odds are in their favor.This book lives up the expectations incurred from the Silhoutte reputation: love at first sight, flash-point passion, and happily-ever-after....and some truly yummy leading men!
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
This one, was actually the first book I ever read of Nora Roberts! Of course, every time I go to the bookstore there are tons of books from her so I finally decided to take the leap,aha.So this one, we have two book in one : Playing the odds  and Tempting Fate .Both are enjoyable reads and were perfect for a read in the beach. :D
It turns out, that while I like Nora Roberts, I greatly prefer her later works. I cannot remember the last time I held back so much eye rolling. The plots weren't well developed and I didn't always like the characters. Oh, and the passion with barely suppressed violence thing - yuck. I know it was around before 50 Shades but the uber aggressive male just doesn't do it for me. That said, I do like series and following characters through a series.
Sadly, another romance that starts off with a hero who acts like a stalker, and a heroine who says "no" but isn't listened to, yet clearly will fall for him anyway.Women shouldn't write this crap (well, neither should men) and women shouldn't read it. I didn't. I put it down around page 25. Which is sad, because it's very possible that the characters and the storyline and the writing are wonderful.But no means no. Even in books.
I just re-read this book - I hadn't read it since maybe high school or early college, and I loved it just as much!
I'm going to love this series.....
Since March seems to be coming in like a Lion here in Minnesota, I have found myself with just the right amount of laziness to curl up and devote myself to my favorite pastime....binging Netflix.
Watching The Lion King three times in a day is not considered binge watching is it?
Oh yes, reading.
These stories go back to 1985, a time when I knew nothing of romance and frankly had no desire.
I enjoy a good take me moment, like most women, but this border lined on Justin forcing himself on Serena.
Nora has most definitely gotten better with time.
I read it and I rolled my eyes, but I suppose that my expectations weren't high enough to be disappointed.'Tempting Fate' was not a pleasant novel at all and I nearly gave up on it a few times.
Caine was physically aggressive multiple times and had an inability to understand that 'no' means NO and not 'maybe if you shake me or just keep kissing me'.There was one occasion where he grabs her wrist to stop her from walking away from him and 'didn't make his grip gentle' and then another where he is yelling at her, grabs her shoulders and shakes her.
Is this romance?Not in my book.Overall, not my favourite ever read, especially 'Tempting Fate'.
"Playing the odds" The story of how Serena MacGregor meets her husband Justin Blade.
10 years later, he sends Daniel on a cruise - on the same ship Serena works on as a dealer.
Sparks fly, they become partners and marry after she's kidnapped.Caine's story is "Tempting Fate".
When he meets Justin's estranged sister Diana - also a lawyer.
The sparks also fly here, but Diana feels badly abandoned - first by her parents when they died and then Justin when he sends her to live with an aunt in MA.
More of Diana's coming out than Caine's.
The first 3 MacGregor books are all pretty much the same thing - very date-rapey.
They are interesting from a historical perspective - besides the very uncomfortable way the men come on to the women and touch them without their permission, and show "fury" if the woman turns them down: "Indian" is used instead of "Native American," there are physical keys at a hotel, and the heroine sends the H a telegram(!) in the first book.
I had to enjoy myself with these little time capsules because the plots are pretty terrible and the people are all interchangeable.
I read these first as a young teenager (there was no such thing as "'tweens" back then).
Justin Blade and Serena Macgregor are set up to meet by her father without either of them knowing about it. Romance ensues on a cruise ship and then continues at Justin’s casino hotel on land. Nice love story. Caine Macgregor and Diana Blade are the second story in this book. Not as interesting a story.
just so so stories :(
I really enjoy reading the men's thoughts-the insight into why they may be reluctant to make a commitment or what attracts them in addition to the physical
And quite honestly, beyond the corniness and the cliche conflicts, I did enjoy reading both of these stories.Playing the OddsSerena & JustinStory Overview:Serena MacGregor had been looking for a little independence and some much-needed adventure, but Justin Blade was not what she had in mind.
He might be able to convince Diana to form a business partnership, but could he entice her to risk everything for the love of a MacGregor?My Rating: BMy Review:For me, this book seemed to have a bit more depth than the first.
Serena, the youngest daughter is paired up, through Daniel's first of many fix-up shenanigans, with tons-of-casinos-owner Justin Blade.
(Side note: Where did that last name come from?) Following that, middle child and lawyer Caine meets Justin's sister, Diana Blade, also a lawyer!
It seems like all he does is follow Serena around everywhere, takes off all her hairpins and litters the ocean with them (super wtf character thing here), and never takes no for an answer.
Their story seems to follow more of the standard Nora Roberts conflict and resolution plot we typically see, but again, Caine practically forces himself onto Diana in every way until she literally can't picture life without him.

Daniel's romantic machinations embroil Serena and Caine with another brother and sister team, Justin and Diana Blade.
In Playing the Odds, Comanche gambler Justin Blade finds himself on a vacation cruise to the Bahamas where he is instantly attracted to a violet-eyed casino dealer.
Once settled as Justin's partner in business and in life, Serena invites Justin's sister Diana to visit.
Diana finds herself in turmoil, trying to deal with her hurt and anger toward her brother and the attraction that she feels for Caine who just happens to be near whenever Diana's well-guarded shell cracks.
First and second in publication-order in the MacGregor family romance series. The couples focus is on Serena MacGregor meeting Justin Blade in the first story while the second story focuses on Caine MacGregor and Diana Blade.This series is a mess chronologically and has a number of stories combined into single books, so you may want to explore my list of the MacGregor family saga.Series (chronologically):Playing the Odds, 3Tempting Fates, 4The Stories Playing the Odds  finds Serena MacGregor unk
The couples focus is on Serena MacGregor meeting Justin Blade in the first story while the second story focuses on Caine MacGregor and Diana Blade.This series is a mess chronologically and has a number of stories combined into single books, so you may want to explore my list of the MacGregor family saga.Series (chronologically):Playing the Odds, 3Tempting Fates, 4The Stories
(Both are the children of Daniel MacGregor; read his story in 
I really like Serena and Justin's story-the cruise and hotel/casino setting and both their sassiness...great love story and the skillet won the day haha!
I first read about her in Ian's story and liked her...but when I saw her in Grant's story I did not quite expect her "difficult-ness"...her being so cool to Gennie and then not telling Caine she's pregnant.
If she served up 10% of the nastiness to her aunt growing up maybe she won't be so screwed up.
This is one of her earlier series and although it is good it is not one of my favorites. A lot of romance and the men seem pushy in forcing a relationship in both of these stories. I will read the next in this series.
Dus bestaat er jammer genoeg ook een Nora Roberts-boek dat me niet wist te overtuigen.
‘Serena en Cain’, het tweede boek uit deze ‘De MacGregor Clan’-reeks bestaat uit twee korte verhalen waarin de jongste zus Serena en één van haar beide broers de hoofdrol voor rekening nemen.Jammer genoeg wist geen één van beide verhalen me echt te overhalen.
Als lezer viel het me duidelijk op dat een boek dertig jaar geleden letterlijk én figuurlijk een heel ander verhaal was.
Op een bepaald moment begrijpt een van niet wat iemand probeert uit te leggen, maar wanneer een ander personage het twee minuten later op dezelfde manier uitlegt klinkt het hem plots wel logisch in de oren....Mijn volledige recensie kan je  hier  terugvinden.
Playing the Odds: Serena, the youngest child of Daniel MacGregor, meets Justin Blade just on her last cruise as a blackjack dealer.
When they discover they were "set up" by Daniel, Justin thinks it funny while Serena is furious with her dad.
Sometimes funny, sometimes sad, and occasionally scary, the book sets the tone for the rest in the series.Tempting Fate: Caine meets Justin's sister Diana and his fate is sealed, although neither of them knows it.
As sneaky and manipulative as his father, Caine works to undermine her resolve and get what he wants.
I love this book.
I love the MacGregor family.
Daniel MacGregor’s first matchmaking attempt for his daughter, Serena and his young friend Justin is hilarious.
It cracks me up with both find out that Daniel planned them meeting.
I love when Diana Blade’s cool façade is cracked when she meets and fall in love with Caine.
It is so amazing how similar they are (both lawyers who with to Harvard) and it cracks me up when Diana reminds Caine of his exploits that are still bandied about the halls and dorms of Harvard.
The first two children of Daniel MacGregor are amazing and funny.
The first story within this book was with Serena McGregor and Justin Blade.
It kept you wanting to read more and was edgy because of the kidnapping and the darkend past behind Justin Blade's character.
The second book was with Caine McGregor (Brother of Serena McGregor) and Diana Blade (Sister of Justin Blade).
It was a great read and once again my favorite character was the escentric father, with his cigars and scottish burrs you can't help but to fall in love with how lively his character is.
Nora Roberts once again wrote a book that I love and will remember.
