https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1988632.The_Avenging_Saint
As I lapped up the action of the plot, I discovered myself comparing Simon Templar with the much later James Bond.
Unlike those decorative Bond Girls of male fantasy, the beautiful Sonia is a valuable long-term asset.The plot of “Knight Templar” is very like a game of chess.
The deeper I got into this book, the more the literary allusions alluringly grew like mushrooms; yet never, I thought, to such an extent as to be obtrusive, let alone irritating, to a less widely read reader.
having pretty much only been aware of the saint from the late seventies interpretation 'return of th
I first met Charteris' dashing, witty, wicked and yet virtuous swashbuckler when I was about ten...and I've been trying to match his tired worldliness ( since that is all of Simon Templar's style I ever could match!) and wit since boyhood. I miss this world and always feel a bit better about myself and my outdated values when I spent a few hours with the wonderfully debonaire adventurer of those bygone Edwardian days!
This is a sequel to The Last Hero. Like most other books in the series, this is full of wit. It is well written, has an engrossing plot, and a beautiful female sidekick. What more could you ask for?
I love the Saint. The older books bring back a time when we truly believed that a few men could make a big difference. In this book, the Saint continues to foil a plot to start a second world war. (Keep in mind this book was written before the start of WWII). He meets a lady who is in many ways his equal and his friend Roger falls for her. We'll see how that turns out in future books.
Loving it!A fine continuation of and to THE SAINT CLOSES THE CASE aka THE LAST HERO. So much taken care of and yet some things left tantalizingly open for further speculation in future books.
Scotland Yard10: Once More the Saint -> The Saint and Mr. Teal12: The Misfortunes of Mr. Teal -> The Saint in London13: Boodle -> The Saint Intervenes18: Thieves Picnic -> The Saint Bids Diamonds19: Prelude for War -> The Saint Plays With FireThe fatuity of the revised titles is nowhere more evident than with the present book and its antecedent: in The Last Hero the Saint does not close the case, and in Knight Templar the one thing he does not do is avenge the death of Norman Kent.
Marius' reason for going to England is typically devious: Sylvia Delmar and Sir Isaac Lessing are about to get married, and this will lead to a merger between oil companies owned by her father and her fiancé.
Marius wants to fragment the oil industry so that he can have more influence there, so he sets out to kidnap Sylvia and force her to marry another man.The plot is fairly typical of the thirties thriller, but Charteris handles it in what is distinctly his own way, leading up to another surprise ending incredibly audacious for the time.
After the excellent "The Saint Closes the Case," this was a bit of a letdown.
I can't say much without spoiling "Closes the Case," but this doesn't really wrap things up.
Once things get moving, though, the story does improve somewhat, though I thought the ending was flat.
Two things bug me:1.
"Oh, here we go again!" You'd think a millionaire's daughter who's engaged to another millionaire would have some sort of security, even in 1930.
If he's supposed to guard someone, the bad guys will kidnap or rescue them.
You'd think the Saint would have more intelligent sidekicks.
Battle, Murder & Sudden DeathSo goes the cry and motto of the Saint, a man living in a world that is not his. He will defend the damsel in distress and battle the wicked, not being shy about his methods or the crazy, dangerous stunts to achieve his goals. The Avenging Saint is the 2nd meet with the deadly Rayt Marius from The Saint Closes the Case.For all those who love adventures with the spirit of a buccaneer taking on the odds, this book is for you who also choose the world of the Saint.
reread after many years another dastardly plot foiled. wonder what charteris would think of the manufactured wars of the 21st century that so benefit oil and defense industries at the expense of so many lives lost?
Good old-fashioned '30s adventure. I envy these Edwardian heroes and their moral certainty. Very enjoyable on the whole, although the repeated descriptions of how great the Saint is get tiring after a while. Still very much worth reading, if you can find a copy.
I grew up on the Saint. It's not big and it's not clever, but I will always have a soft spot for these books. I've been wanting to get this one for years. The Saint saves the King's life and is forgiven all his crimes just as Scotland Yard closes in. It's completely nuts and I love it.
The early adventures of The Saint aren't the best (I rather prefer the later, more ingenious, ones) but this book is OK in any case.
I've had quite enough of gay swashbuckling for the time being. I'd begun to feel as if I were being hit over the head with a stick of candy floss.
Fascinating from a cultural perspective--the easy racism, chivalric narrative, odd violence.
This is a fun, light read.
a.k.a. "The Avenging Saint"; read some time in 1995
Pre WWII AdventureA plot to conquer and rule the world finds the Saint saving us in the nick of time. Lots of swashbuckling. The excitement may be too much.
