https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4794097-on-cats
Tinha dois meses e, em poucos dias, curou-me daquela doença a que os médicos chamam depressão e que, tal como noutros casos, não passava de desalento, tristeza, ou mero cansaço.
Em Dezembro de 2013 partiu, curando-me pela segunda vez (não de uma "doença", como a anterior, mas de um grande desgosto), apesar de ficar com o coração partido pela sua perda (uma dor amortece outra).
Não a consegui salvar, apenas os seus dois filhos;A Sissi.
Que morreu a lutar com cães para salvar os seus bebés;E tantos mais...
Eu tremo (é o bicho de que tenho mais asco) mas, na dúvida, não desisto.
this book is the vindication of my cat lady ways beyond any reasonable doubt.
i picked it up on a whim, in the mood for some light reading, and as we all know, nothing makes for good light reading like cute animal stories.
not everyone's a cat person, this much is true, but this little book is so much more than cats.
it's a story about the ways we humans, who are part of nature of course but not so much involved with it anymore, commune with the wild, unknowable things of the world.
and what's more wild and unknowable than a cat?
This event [and some other horrors, cats being mistaken for snakes and killed, kittens killed by eagles etc] sets the stage for Lessing's incredibly old-fashioned 'life is harsh, and to cats too' approach to pet ownership.Stories about tom cats fighting over your cat are not charming.
[yes, I know Lessing died last year, RIP.] Also if you're irresponsible enough to let your cat get pregnant then make sure the kittens go to owners who will keep them indoors and also spay them.
results in Lessing letting one of her cats get pregnant [because she thinks spaying is 'cruel'] only to kill 4 of the 6 kittens of that litter immediately because 2 is a more manageable number ....
Bu Lessing'den okuduğum ilk kitap oldu, sonuncusu olmayacak sanırım.Lessing ve kedilerini şurada görebilirsiniz.
Checked this short book out of the library digitally on a whim and the next thing I knew, I was hooked.
And the next thing I knew after that I was lying on the floor crying for all the cats I've ever known, loved, or had eye contact with.
Yes - I tend to be sentimental about my cats - all cats.
Or even cat behavior or cat science.
Ms. Lessing explored not only her relationship with her cats, but their relationships with each other and the world.
And now I want to go adopt three more cats.
By that evening, we’d moved a spare cat bed onto the garage step, leaving the door open a few inches so she could slip in and out if she desired.
Saturday night we abandoned all pretense that we weren't going to adopt her (though my mother dutifully called around to the neighbors, one of whom said a feral cat had a litter of kittens under their deck this summer, and that two of them were black and white), and she moved in.
Tremendo livro para os amantes de gatos, Lessing não procura subterfúgios para mostrar o âmago da convivência com gatos, na morte, na doença, nos pequenos atos desses felinos com que dividiu anos ou horas, ela desbrava um universo quente de que também me orgulho de fazer parte.
Pecinta kucing bakal manggut-manggut membaca tuturannya, sementara bahkan bagi yang bukan penyuka kucing pun akan terpikat oleh teknik bercerita Lessing yang serasa akrab sekali."Juru kisah ada di kedalaman diri kita.
Di tangan seorang penulis yang piawai, yang biasa selalu bisa jadi tulisan yang istimewa.Kucing dalam pandangan Lessing di buku ini sedikit banyak mengingatkan pada kisah-kisah manusia.
Di cerita pertama ini pula Lessing sedikit banyak berkisah tentang masa kecilnya hingga membentuknya menjadi penulis yang seperti sekarang.Cerita kedua lebih pendek dan lebih berwarna, kucingnya juga beda.
Kisah tentang dua kucing yang bertahan hidup menjadi cerita terakhir buku ini, yang mengingatkan kita pada tulisan-tulisan dari Amerika Latin tentang manusia ketika ditulis dari sudut pandang yang unik.
Comprei este livro com a ideia de que o seu alvo seriam pessoas que gostam particularmente de gatos e, no entanto, eu - que adoro gatos (e nem me atreveria a dizer o contrário tendo neste preciso momento dois magníficos representantes da espécie aqui sentados em cima da secretária a olhar para mim…) - não senti, em tempo algum, que este livro era «para mim».
A favor de Lessing está também a honestidade com que escreve e a qualidade da sua prosa, mas se quero ser igualmente honesta só posso dizer que fiquei ligeiramente desiludida com o livro.
Lessing'in hayvanseverliği tartışılmaz belki -kedilere dair duygusal bir kitap yazacak kadar sevmiş en azından- ama doğan yavruların bir kısmını sayıları çok diye boğup öldürmeyi hayvanseverliğin neresine koymalı bilemiyorum.
Kalan anlatılarda da kedilere dair iç ısıtacak şeyler değil, bolca hüzünlü anı var."Kedileri tanıyıp hayat boyu kedilerle birlikte olunca geriye insanlara karşı duyulandan çok farklı bir hüzün tortusu kalıyor: Onların çaresizliği karşısında çekilen acı, hepimiz adına duyulan suçluluktan oluşan bir tortu.""Ah kedi; derdim, daha doğrusu tapınırdım: Güzeeeel kedi!
Nefis kedi!
Zarif kedi!
İpek kedi!
Tüylü baykuş gibi yumuşacık kedi, kelebek patili kedi, süslü kedi, inanılmaz kedi!
Kedi, kedi, kedi, kedi."
A memoir of her relationship with certain cats and her observations of them. Funny how many female novelists were fond of cats! As you would expect, well written and interesting.
www.kitapezgisi.comKedilere dair bir kaç kitap okudum, çoğu sadece kedi severlerin ilgisini çekmek için yazılmış lay lay lom kitaplardandı.
Fakat ne güzeldir ki hayal kırıklığına uğramadım bu sefer.Doris Lessing çocukluğunda Afrika’da yaşamış, burada vahşi, evcil birçok kedi ile karşılaşmış birisi.
Kitap hem bir kedi sever olarak eğlenceli geçti benim için, hem de yazım, anlatım olarak da sürükleyici idi.
Ama kitap yazmanın kolay bir iş olmadığını ve sadece anılarının olmasının yetmediğini birçok hayal kırıklığı yaratan kitapta deneyimlemiş oldum.İşte bu kitap hem anlatım olarak hem de kedisel sayfalar açısından beni mutlu etti.
Adı üstünde, Doris Lessing'in kedilerine dair bir kitap.
Güney Afrika'dan başlayıp Londra'ya, İngiltere'nin kırsalına uzanan hayat yolculuğunda Lessing'in dostu olmuş onlarca kediden bazılarının hikayeleri.
Kitap kendi dönemi içinde (1940'lardan itibaren, 60'lara kadar olan dönem) değerlendirildiğinde, kedilerin insanlarla olan ortak yaşamına güzel bir pencere açıyor.
O dönemde Güney Afrika'da bir beyaz çiftliğinde, Londra'da, İngiltere kırsalında kedilerle insanlarla nasıl yaşardı görebiliyor okuyan.
Kedileri hem ölesiye sevip, hem nasıl böyle bir şey yapabildiklerine insan şaşıyor.
Bir yazarın kedileri anlama, onlarla yaşama deneyimleri olarak okumayı öneririm.
Mesela, eve yeni gelen bir kedinin diğerlerine katılmasındaki süreçler, kediler arası hiyerarşı kavgaları çok güzel betimlenmiş.
I feel kind of weird giving one of those special five-star ratings to a book about, well,  cats , but this was a pretty special book.
Squeamish cat-lovers beware ~ Doris Lessing starts out by telling of her girlhood growing up on a farm in South Africa, shooting baby kittens with her father because they simply couldn't manage to keep them all.
Yet somehow there is an acute tenderness in her writing about her cats, especially as she grows older, despite wry tales of guns & whiskey & too many kittens.
It's just that, this time, they happen to be cats!
Livro escrito com grande sensibilidade, mas sem pieguices sobre os muitos gatos e suas histórias, que povoaram a vida desta escritora desde a sua infância até à idade madura. Livro delicioso sobre a interacção destes animais cheios de carácter e independência, com os humanos seus "servos". Recomendo.
Prepare yourself for reading disturbing things like murdering kittens and cats. not what I expected!
“..Burnumuzun dibinde nasıl yorumlayacağımızı bilmediğimiz bir sürü karmaşık dil...Kedileri tanıyıp, hayat boyu kedilerle birlikte olunca geriye insanlara karşı duyulandan çok farklı bir hüzün tortusu kalıyor: Onların çaresizliği karşısında çekilen acı, hepimiz adına duyulan suçluluktan oluşan bir tortu.”
Valendo como 4.5 ;)
Los libritos de Lessing siempre nos plantean la empatía y comprensión hacia las necesidades del otro, aunque el otro camine en cuatro patas, esté peludo y sea soberbio.
There is an onslaught of gruesome cat death in this book, some of it carried out by Lessing herself.
Lessing is not writing (for the most part) cute pet stories.In fact, one of the moving, melancholic dynamics of the book is the way that Lessing uses the vulnerability of cats to reflect on our own responsibilities to our fellow creatures and the inevitable fumbles and callousness of human beings.
I love Lessing's prose:"What a luxury a cat is, the moments of shocking and startling pleasure in a day, the feel of the beast, the soft sleekness under your palm, the warmth when you wake on a cold night, the grace and charm even in a quite ordinary workaday puss.
People so attached to cats (or dogs, or whatever) will have experienced a lifetime worth of small loves and losses lost to those who never interacted with animals as individual living beings.
But Doris's sediment of sorrow may not be unique to cats, it may just be the residue that accumulates from a life's worth of love.
As it turned out, I was right, but some people would be surprised at my adoration of this work when they read some of the less "fuzzy" feelings toward cats that are described.
It does show the author's true affection for the many different cats in her life and she describes each of them perfectly, painting a picture that is clear and colorful with her words.
It is a true piece of art in written form.I am now intrigued by this author and can't wait to look into more of her work, which spans from 1949 to her final book in 2007.
We are treated to stories, enchanting fragments, about some of the cats who have shared her life; in vivid, masterful prose we are shown quirks, conflicts, tender moments, and are made to love these creatures as if we had truly met them in person.
While reading I wept, giggled, cooed over the book, seeing in my mind's eye the various escapades and tragedies.
It is, however, entirely worth your time to read these stories; with all the more reason if you happen to be a cat lover.
Squeamish cat-lovers beware ~ Doris Lessing starts out telling of her girlhood growing up on a farm in South Africa, shooting baby kittens with her father because they simply could  not  manage to keep them all.
Yet somehow there is an acute tenderness in her writing about her cats, especially as she grows older, despite wry tales of guns & whiskey & too many kittens, etc.This was one of those especially good ones that I had to read really slow at the last chapter because I didn't want it to end.
Brutally unsentimental in outlook, yet tender in her description toward individual cats, Lessing manages to both capture the sadness inherent in the idea of keeping pets and the joy of sharing existence with them.Oddly, the publisher chose to include so much glimpses into Lessing's other works with the ebook, that On Cats itself actually only made up a third of the file.
On the one hand, that's fine, as it costs neither me nor them something to do that.
On the other hand it made me read differently.
Thinking the work was much longer than it ought to be, I almost abandoned it.
This is a book truly about cat.It shows how lovable cat is without resorting to sugar coating cat's behavior or pretend that human can read cat's mind or vice versa as in Dewey: The Small-Town Library Cat Who Touched the World.
Cats will always be its own master no matter what human would like to otherwise believe.
And yet because of it the relationship between cat and human is even more special.
Black cat, Grey cat, Rufus, El Magnifico, their stories truly touched me and made me missed my faraway cat..
i hope our story will be as wonderful as theirs.
Doris Lessing's keen look at the relationships cats enjoy with each other and with us.
While Lessing may anthropomorphize feline emotions and motivations, I would hazard most cat owners would view her musings as spot on while at the same time bring a knowing smirk to their lips.My girlfriends 18 year old cat, Sassy, finally succumbed to her advanced age while I was reading this book.
It definitely proved to be good comfort in relieving my mind of the haunted echos of Sassy's last few miaowings.If you can empathize with that last sentence then I think you'll find, 'On Cats', to be worthwhile and enjoyable.
If you can't, then you won't.Purr!
Enchanting, delightful, honest, and sorrowful - it is incredible how cats can ever be understood so well by a human, or how much we see ourselves through cats. A most exquisite little book, about the most magical creatures ever existed.
Sweet and sometimes heart-breaking reflection on the cats in Ms. Lessing's life. Better than you would think a book about the cats in her life would be, which is a testament to the incredible talent of the author.
ranges from flat out disgusting to positively enchanting. full of astute and poetic observations of the cats the author has loved & lost... with interesting accounts of how cats are treated in different cultures and in different times.
