https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/646195.Babe
Read as part of the ‘Rory Gilmore Reading Challenge’.The charming tale that captured originally captured my imagination as a child due to the movie adaptation, it’s the heart warming story of a young pig on a sheep farm.Being brought up by Fly a sheepdog, young babe aspires to follow in the dogs footsteps by becoming a sheep-pig.I liked how the movie stayed really faithful to the book, it really is a timeless classic.
I remember our teacher telling us that the film was based on a book and when I read the book that I enjoyed it even more!
The story begins with Mr. Hogget winning a pig at the fair by correctly guessing the pig’s weight.
Babe then goes about copying Fly’s mannerisms and he is determined to become a sheep pig.
Furthermore the way in which Babe treats the sheep shows that he does not judge others by their appearances.
I would really enjoy reading this book to children in year 2 to upper key stage two as I think it is a very important story with themes that are important for all children.
Such a fun story. I think I like the movie better actually and this book has a lot of charm. It's clever and funny and show how far politeness can get you in life. I think this is often overlooked and I think the world can use more kindness and politeness. I think Babe also shows that life doesn't always have to be what you expect. The unexpected can be as much fun, even more so. A bit of kindness can land us in the prize winning sheep-dog circle. I'm glad I took the time to read this.
And "the bitch told the pig that the farmer was pleased with his progress." After the 2nd reference to this term, and after laughing out loud at the surprise of it, I had to tell my 10-year old that the term was not acceptable to use for humans - and was especially derogatory for women.
When I went to discuss it further with her, she just rolled her eyes at me and said, "I know, Dad, I know, jeeez." After the 4th reference in the book, and with me telling her again that this was not appropriate for humans, she was completely irritated!
Lovely. Glad to see that the movie didn't deviate too much from the book.
Die Handlung kennt man eventuell vom Film "Ein Schweinchen namens Babe", dem dieses Buch als Grundlage diente.
So man daran interessiert ist, seinen Kindern soziale Werte zu vermitteln, ist dieses Buch hervorragend dafür geeignet.
Das kleine Schweinchen hat ein freundliches Wesen und mit seiner Höflichkeit erreicht es mehr, als der Hütehund durch sein ruppiges Wesen.
Nichtsdestotrotz hat die Geschichte nichts schweres oder behäbiges.
Sie liest sich wie ein modernes Märchen und wenn das Schweinchen sich dann mit der Bitte "Wenn nun freundlicherweise die vier Damen mit dem Halsband den Kreis verlassen würden..." an die Schafen wendet, ist es, als würde es seinen Zauberstab heben.
I don't think I've ever read this book before, but I did today for class. At the beginning I thought I wasn't going to like it all that much--after all, there already is a great book featuring a pig as the main character, and that's Charlotte's Web--but awww, as I kept on reading I liked Babe more and more (and also the minor characters, Mr. Hogget and Fly especially) until by the end I was wishing I had a Babe of my own to cuddle with as he sheep-pigs his way to victory!
What a fabulous read aloud book! I enjoyed it as much as my son. My 5 year old would give it 100 stars. I did omit the word "bitch" referring to the collie as it wasn't necessary and didn't want to get into a discussion of when it is not appropriate to use the word or how people could misinterpret it coming from a 5 year old.
Distracția de mini-vacanță. O carte despre puterea de transformare, politețe și prietenie, încrederea în semeni. La fel de potrivită pentru copii, ca și pentru adulții care mai înțeleg semnificațiile din spatele cuvintelor. Să nu uităm de filmul din 1995, desigur.
So cute! Loved it as much as the movie.
Hay, además, estudios reales que dicen que los chanchos son tanto o más inteligentes que los perros, pero luego igual siguen viviendo solo para terminar en el matadero.Bueno, ya, sé que no es blanco y negro, que también es comida, y las proteínas y etcétera, pero NO es como antes, y hoy en día ya no se justifica tanto.
Si se criaran con humanidad, y los comiéramos solo luego de haber tenido una vida feliz, tampoco sería tan malo, porque los alimentamos y cobijamos después de todo, pero no es así realmente cómo sucede, y las granjas NO SON como las del libro.
Babe encapsulates the most saliently positive qualities of kids themselves, which will do nicely in commending this story to young readers.
These are valid points, to be sure, but what I take from it more is that people ("personified" in the form of Babe's mum, the sheep dog Fly) have a natural tendency to sort those around them based on prejudiced opinion, and not based on really knowing the people and making assessments on the quality of their personal character.
I recommend this hearty book to anyone; additionally, without this volume it is doubtful that we ever would have experienced the movie, "Babe".
"Babe: The Gallant Pig" by Dick King-Smith is a wonderful read-aloud or individual read for middle elementary students.
Another lesson that students can learn is to put away any former opinions or stereotypes before interaction with someone or something that they have never encountered before.
If you are encouraging your students to read this book or reading it aloud to your students, you must be aware that there is a controversial word scattered in it: "bitch".
I would recommend this book to middle or upper elementary children, because it is an easy and enjoyable read.
Some people know I have this weird obsession for movies with talking animals.
I love stories about animals, and stories that are told from an animal's point of view.
Babe is one of my all-time favorite talking animal movies.
(How did I not ever know this?) So I added it to my mental wish list of random, older juvenile books that I wanted to read sooner rather than later.Cut to my five-days-off-Thanksgiving-weekend.
I decided I just really wanted to spend the majority of that time reading, something I haven't done in a very long time.
:D I loved reading it and discovering that the movie followed the book so very closely.
Read in April 2018I am turning semi-obsessed with Dick King-Smith. The book was fun and quick, but the last two pages of the book were perfection. He hit all of the right emotional points. I wanted to reread the last two pages again, so beautiful they were. Then my kids wanted me to read them a third and fourth time too. "That'll do, King-Smith" I say, "That'll do."Mom Read Aloud to Davey & Gordon (and sometimes Eve). Davey: "Good Ending."Gordon: "Yeah."Davey: "He should have written a Babe 2. We need a Babe 2."
Can't believe I'm saying this but I like the movie better!
Poveștile lui Smith sunt tare drăguțe și pline de lecții de viață pentru cei mici, personajul principal fiind mereu unul la care ai multe admirat.
,,Babe'' este o cărticică despre acceptarea celor care sunt diferiți față de noi, despre a lupta pentru visurile tale oricât de improbabilă ar putea părea împlinirea lor, despre depășirea propriilor limite, despre bunătate, prietenie, ambiție și, nu în ultimul rând, despre politețe.
Șocați-i pe cei din jur și fiți drăguți cu ei fără motiv!
Sunt atât de sătui de egoism și impertinențe încât s-ar putea să fie sceptici la început, dar voi să nu cedați!
I've grown up watching the movie Babe and recently wanted to read the book it was based off. It's very close to the movie, so it's a pretty good adaption. I loved reading this story. I've always liked the movie and now I like the book too. I've enjoyed all of Dick King-Smith's books that I've read so far. - - - Babe the Gallant Pig by Dick King-Smith is about a pig called Babe. Won at the fair by Farmer Hogget, Babe takes a liking to sheep herding. But who has ever heard of a sheep-pig?
Aww ang charming ng mga characters at ang fitting ng storyline para sa mga batang mambabasa. Too bad mas nauna kong nabasa ang Animal Farm kung saan nagkaroon ako ng malubhang pandidiri sa mga domenanteng baboy at sa mga characters namely "Mr. Jones" hehe! Pero nevertheless delightful read pa rin
มันสันเกินไปสำหรับผูใหญแตสำหรับเดกๆ ทีเริมอานหนังสือเลมขนาดของเลมกำลังพอดีเนือหาไมซับซอน อานงาย มีภาพประกอบลายเสนสวยๆเนือเรืองอบอุน ออนโยนผูใหญอานสนุกเฉยๆแตเดกๆ นาจะชอบมาก
มันสั้นเกินไปสำหรับผู้ใหญ่แต่สำหรับเด็กๆ ที่เริ่มอ่านหนังสือเล่มขนาดของเล่มกำลังพอดีเนื้อหาไม่ซับซ้อน อ่านง่าย มีภาพประกอบลายเส้นสวยๆเนื้อเรื่องอบอุ่น อ่อนโยนผู้ใหญ่อ่านสนุกเฉยๆแต่เด็กๆ น่าจะชอบมาก
An enjoyable read.
My class had no interest in this book and neither did I to be honest.
Darling.Also, for what its worth, I believe the film version is one of the best book-t0-screen adaptations ever achieved.
This was a lovely book, just as lovely as the movie except it kept using the word "bitch" in its animal meaning and that uh took me aback every time? But Babe is lovely and amazing and I love having the book and being able to read it after all these years of watching the movie.
I love this book and how it's many messages about compassion, empathy, and trust and woven so nicely in. I also love the characters and how their varied personalities make you feel for them, laugh, and cry. Such a simple story but so worthwhile.
Dick King-Smith’s tale of Babe - the successful sheep-pig - carries hints of an allegorical fable, but stays just the right side of entertainment to be an engaging, and to my mind interesting read for early KS2 or advanced KS1.
However without that understanding the characters motivations become less clear, why does the farm not keep pigs ?
There is excellent scope for further study of the book; the story ends with all characters and story-lines open for progression and development, and an interesting follow-on activity would be a creative writing ‘what do you think happens next activity’.
This book is also known as Babe: The Gallant Pig, and is the inspiration for Babe, the Academy Award nominated film.The story begins when Farmer Hogget wins a piglet at a county fair.
But what will the farmer do when he realizes that the pig might be the best sheepdog he ever had?My girls have not seen Babe, so this was their first exposure to the clever little pig.
The print edition is best suited for children in elementary school, but my kindergarten girls enjoyed listening to this story, so it would be a nice choice for reading out loud
As well as teaching, Dick-King Smith had a background in farming.
Surprisingly, Babe has a talent for sheepherding and before long he is herding the sheep better than any sheep dog ever could.
I also feel King-Smith has a fantastic talent for creating wonderful characters that are expertly described, Mr. Hogget and Babe are stand outs for me.
I would recommend ‘Babe: The Gallant Pig’ for year 2 all the way through to upper key stage 2 as I feel there are many opportunities to use the book in the classroom, providing messages which are appropriate for the primary audience.
Just because Babe is not a sheep dog does not mean he will not have a talent for herding sheep.
Although I have always heard about his animal stories growing up most especially The Sheep Pig (or perhaps the popular film adaption of Babe), I had never actually read any of his books.
The Sheep Pig takes children into a world of imagination which allows the reader to imagine the daily life of an animal and the respect that is created between the human owner and the animal.
The book is about a pig who makes friends with all animals on a farm after he was won at market by farmer Hoggett.
Farmer Hogget's sheepdog, Fly, develops a motherly bond with Babe and when he expresses a hope to be a sheepdog like her, trains him to become the first sheep-pig.
However, Babe discovers that by being polite the sheep willingly respond to his requests and he is able to herd them better than any dog Farmer Hogget has trained before.
From the start of the story we know the ultimate fate of pigs at the Hogget farm, yet Babe is such a lovely character that we immediately hope he becomes a sheep-pig and not the Christmas dinner.
