https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8088.Sunshine
There's actually only one kind of ice cream that I actually like and that's mint choc chip.
Like when I lost interest in my mint choc chip ice cream at one interval and my evil parents had it whisked away by an annoyed waitress (I'll have my revenge one day!)So whilst I enjoyed much of the book, I found myself falling asleep a lot because it would launch into these long stories like my 80 year old grandma does when you ask her how her day was.
Over all, it was a really good serving of mint choc chip ice cream with a huge serving of cockblock.
(Oh, I forgot, both also involve scenes of googling and message board reading, which still isn't all that interesting.) The difference is that Robin McKinley can write, and instead of filling her pages with repetition and day-to-day mundanities (new word!), she creates a fun cast of supporting characters at the bakery where Sunshine works (I could almost write an entire separate review about the role baking plays in this book, but I didn't want to make anyone hungry) and puts real thought into the way you might react to a traumatic experience like almost being eaten.
Definitely worthwhile if you like vampire lit, though it's a bit of an odd one.
Okay, there is a rather sexy scene, and Constantine the vampire is a very cool character but also, undeniably, vampirish, in a not-necessarily-sexy way.I loved what McKinley did with the main character and her magically gifted family and with vampire lore in this novel; I just wished she'd dug a little deeper into the world-building and the family history.
The story doesn't wrap up with a nice bow either, which left many fans hoping, in vain, for McKinley to write a sequel or at least another book in this world.
:) When these little bits and pieces started unfolding out of the normal bakery life and a nasty kidnapping, I kept thinking to myself: well, isn't this just another setup for a romance?Yes. BUT.
It kind of stunned me just how deep and complex this novel became out of my initial observation.
The kinds of races, the kinds of magic, the twists and the turns, all of them were added like spice to the novel and it kind of blew me away.I've read a lot of mediocre vamp novels.
This story has to do with vampires.I've heard people talking about how sick they are of vampire stories, that they are stale, nothing new to be said, and of course vampires, like elves and dragons (and horses), have been tamed down by many writers into being very pretty forms of humans, pretty, powerful, but with very human (usually mapping heavily onto middle-teen adolescence) emotions.Well, McKinley teases apart the threads of this familiar tapestry and reweaves them into a very strange form.The story begins with our first person protagonist describing her pleasant but claustrophobic life as the baker for a roadside diner that is very popular in her small town.
since joel is being a slowpoke, i am going to write this review before i forget everything i was/am thinking about it and it gets lost in too-many-books-past.yeah, so i had no idea this book was about vampires.but, karen, you have voted for both elizabeth and mariel's review of this book, surely you read reviews before you vote!!
in this book, she does have a boyfriend, but he is more symbolic, like something for her to rub her sexuality against.he can physically protect her with his might, but he is really only there to give her what she needs and not ask unpleasant questions, fading into the background so she can (view spoiler)[have guilt-free near-relations with supernatural beings.
I didn't know she had it in her to write something so tech-heavy, at times sexy and in such a perky "voice."Now, I love to complain about new urban fantasy that lacks originality, proper world-building and just plain satisfactory writing.
And the writing, well, McKinley has a remarkable command of the language.But all these things that I loved about Sunshine were at the same time its negatives.
Often reading Sunshine's thoughts was like reading McKinley's own blog - sometimes interesting, sometimes boring, with never-ending parenthesis, notes, *s, and P.S.'s.
I've liked Robin McKinley in a low-level way for the past ten years or so. I really liked  Beauty ,  The Hero and the Crown  and  The Blue Sword , and when I've seen a new McKinley book I've generally tried to pick it up and read it, for old time's sake. I thought I was fairly familiar with her style and tone.Which is why I was completely unprepared for Sunshine. Who knew McKinley had a dark, experimental, inventive, alternate-universe/vampire novel in her? Who knew she had an engaging, modern,
I've liked Robin McKinley in a low-level way for the past ten years or so.
, and when I've seen a new McKinley book I've generally tried to pick it up and read it, for old time's sake.
Who knew McKinley had a dark, experimental, inventive, alternate-universe/vampire novel in her?
Who knew she had an engaging, modern, flawed character like Sunshine just waiting to come out and win my heart completely over?Ever since I first picked it up, I reread Sunshine every few months, and it never ceases to enthrall and delight me.
It has become one of my favorite books of all time.
This book has some romantic aspects, but it's more of a coming of age story (although Sunshine is an adult when it starts).
But for genre fiction, I think you have to work too hard to get the enjoyment factor out of it.
However, I wanted more of the supernatural aspects and certainly more of the intriguing Constantine.
There are also a few gory moments (not too bad, but I feel the need to warn).
I'd give Sunshine three stars because it was a good book, but I don't feel the need to reread it.
I enjoyed this book a lot.My problem with it is that is hard to read, it has excessive amounts of unnecessary information, but the story and the connection between the characters is so strong and unconventional that is worth pushing through it. The tension that the writer creates between Sunshine and Con is incredible, I just wished there had been more about their relationship; I want more about Sunshine and Con together!I definitely wish there was a sequel, in fact I can't believe there isn't! it's like a cruel joke, not funny at all.
And even the fact that listening to Sunshine is like talking to someone with a severe case of ADD because she keeps diverting and sidetracking until you lose all sense of what she was talking about to begin with and the fact that the book was like the worst kind of tease, sucking you in, turning you on and dumping you with barely a hint of a resolution, no answers to most of the questions and no sequel in sight wouldn't put me off.
Extremely enjoyable, I liked this book much more than Twilight. It was a while ago I read it, but I kept the hardback around, which says a lot since I am forced to be ruthless with what I keep after I read due to space.
Sunshine lives in an alternate post-apocalyptic world in which Others - vampires, weres, demons and angels - are accepted and everywhere.
Even after three hundred pages of first person story, I don't feel that I have a handle on Sunshine as a character.
But the truth is, I didn't care very much whether Sunshine and Con came out of the climax OK.Two more things, quickly:One is the villain, Bo. He's supposed to be a looming menace over the entire book, but we not only don't meet him until the last couple of scenes - 
And yet...the point of the book seemed to be more about the world building.
This was a fascinating world with many magics and part blood demons, ward makers and charm weavers, a special Others police force...
But while it was fascinating in places, the book seemed to be almost a long information dump.
He is alien, aloof, cold, as one might expect from a vampire and yet hard to get a handle on.I thought Sunshine was a great character in an urban fantasy setting different to many others in tone as much as geography.
Did I like reading another and different take on vampires?
I'd visit the fantasy shelf in the book shops and go "ooh um do I want to read this or not?" (Funny how the films and books I debate on are often the ones that I've loved the most.) Now, I visit the McKinley shelves, beaming at my favorites.
Those unnameable life things like falling in or out of love.
When Sunshine meets Con. There was no doubt that this book was going down in my favorites list after that scene.I pictured Con the vampire to look like Dave Gahan during the Songs of Faith and Devotion Depeche Mode era.
Because I have been to that bellow to the book gods place thanks to this book.This reminded me a lot of Moning's series, incredible created universe, first person pov from heroine who is young and not aware of her own power, plethora of characters who could be good or evil, a dark mysterious intriguing dude, and a will they or won't they.
I know there is more to his story because of the clues we are given but I'll never really know, because STANDALONE.If this reminded me of Darkfever so much, why only 2.5 stars?
It has the addictive reading quality but oh boy is our first person pov heroine into rambling.
Oh man what a fucking disappointment. I was really really looking for some creepy vampires, this has been tagged as "horror"? Didn't really feel horror-ish to me.. annnnd I don't know but Constantine was like the lamest vampire love interest ever. The female MC annoyed the fuck out of me and I mostly just fantasized about kicking her teeth in. And for the most part of the book ABSOLUTELY NOTHING happened!!! It was all blah blah blah "the Others this and that" and making cinnamon rolls.I can't even remember when I read a book this boring...
But for those who love feisty girls with thoughts of their own, ugly vampires with developing senses of humor, and wonderfully rich, dense, smart writing, this book may very well have your name on it.
I knew I would love Sunshine herself on page two when she set out to describe her stepfather.Charlie is one of the big good guys in my universe.There's so much fight and heart in that simple statement.
Which brings us to Con. As if Sunshine wasn't enough, Robin McKinley had to go and write Con--a vampire as far removed from the sexy-sparkly variety as is inhumanly possible.
There’s so rarely anything original or new in the genre, and I’m really just not a fan of the Sexy, Mysterious, Dangerous Creature of the Night thing anymore.
However, I do love Robin McKinley, she’s the only reason I picked this book up, and I’m glad I did.
Turns out this book isn’t “about vampires” in the way you might think; Sunshine’s world is either ours in an unspecified future, or an alternate versions of ours in which magic is very real, supernatural creatures are every damn place, and vampires are just one of the dangers that lurk in the night.
3.5What a frustrating book!
McKinley paints a deeply complex and detailed world peopled by humans, weres, vampires, demons, and people who can wield magic.
The author succeeds in conveying such depths that it is only too easy to immerse oneself.
Rae is very easy to like.
Additionally, the vampires in this story are nothing we have come used to expect.
Well, as much as I liked Rae, her narration ended up distancing me from the story.
This annoyed me to no end because otherwise I can see I would have loved this book.Perhaps it is me after all...
I read this some years ago, I remember liking it. A re-read should be good, I can refresh my memory enough to do a full review.
I was put off by the narrative at the start of the book that explained what had happened before.
Fortunately that was a concise section and I was able to get into the story about Sunshine.
I loved the next 1/3 of the book.
The section with her trapped with the vampire Constantine, both chained to a wall, was a wonderful concept.
Nice to see vampires back to being vicious, unpredictable creatures, but with an innate honor code that allows them to form alliances, which in this case spurs the plot.
No brooding, handsome vampires strolling through these pages.
Sunshine/Rae is back home.
The main problem with Sunshine were her internal thoughts.
And OK.→ Head=thoughts=chaos, and it doesn't make al attractive book.
But here there was only Chaos, everywhere.
Rae could be home and al of a sudden it was 2 months later.But don't think it was all bad, otherwise the rating would have been lower....I feel to lazy to write anymore, plus it's sunny outside, so bye.Just know that even though it got to heavy (all the reading), i couldn't put the book down.But i wanted a more closed ending, not a "and they walked out into the night, hand in hand".
Con and Sunshine had something.
I wasn't thrilled with all the time she spent world-building, which didn't seem to make sense for a standalone novel in which most of that information would never be used or heard from again.The characters: Sunshine herself was well-drawn.
and managed to do it without taking away the mystery that makes reading about the mystical fun and even enthralling in the hands of the right writer.She also did a wonderful job of grounding her magic-infused, supernatural haunted story in the experience of the every day.
But for the list of fictional books I would love to read ( nod to another McKinley book) would be Rae Seddon´s cookbooks.A few thoughts:- this book is a lot like Dragonhaven.
And this relates to perhaps the need, or not, for a sequel which I was just getting into:- There are many things about that universe we do not know about and which I want to know - more on Con and his difference take on vampirism, more on the goddess of pain, more on Mel, more on the Blaises.
For my sanity, I need to stop reading any books that are marketed towards fans of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Because spoiler alert: none of these books are ever like Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Sunshine wakes up every morning at 4am to bake cinnamon rolls for the family bakery.
Sunshine spends pages and pages describing her family, her friends, her cinnamon rolls, her cherry tarts, her apple pies, and her bakery's customers even though it's terribly uninteresting and nobody cares.
Sunshine makes cinnamon rolls at 4am every morning, though, and Sunshine loves to talk about that.
First of all, let me say I love Robin McKinley's work, and was so excited to see a new title I just grabbed it and started right in.
I was pulled into this new world, having a hard time putting the book down, when WHAM!
Two pages of erotic description, using language I would never have expected from an author of McKinley's caliber.
It was just there, like a worm in the center of what looks to be a lovely piece of fruit.
It isn't necessary for a gifted author like McKinley to cheapen her talent by pandering to the lowest common denominator.
Who invented this system?" Con himself is Other: not just a human with long teeth, he is inhuman, which makes Sunshine's unwilling attraction to him particularly intriguing (and yet another of McKinley's variations on the "Beauty and the Beast" theme, which she makes even more apparent by having Sunshine retell the fairy tale to Con during their imprisonment).Altogether, Sunshine is an unusual outing for McKinley in its subject matter and world, but her wonderful writing, worldbuilding, and characterization are fully evident and as compelling as ever.
Secondly, the book opens with the impression you are reading urban fantasy of the Sookie Stackhouse variety - and then it takes a MASSIVELY dark turn.
How will her life change?This book was different than most vampire books I've ever read.
In fact, Rae's boyfriend is a (probably human) chef, with whom she actually has a good relationship (DO NOT FAINT!).Number 2, Rae as a protagonist is incredibly different from most of the other first person accounts I've ever read.
Not just that it was so Slow some ground coverage went on for pages!Sunshine bored me to bits...it seems like she just goes on and on *yawn*.
I liked the powers she (sunshine) possesed...very unique.
Con had about as much emotion as a ton of bricks, but that suited him to a T and I liked him.
