https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13545075-unwholly
For some reason, I'd kind of forgotten everything that happens in this one (I think I read it too fast the first time), so I'm glad I took the time to read it again––and this time I went through it a bit more slowly/carefully.For once, I feel like my original review is pretty solid and covers almost everything I have to say about this book.
UnWholly is a brilliant sequel to Unwind––and like it's predecessor, I love how haunting, thrilling, and morally complex it is.I still haven't read books three and four yet, but I'm excited to see what they have in store!Old review under the cut.----------Original Review (1/16/13):Putting out a sequel five years after the first book came out is pretty risky.
Neal Shusterman is an absolute master at two things: introducing a bunch of new characters, more than you'd think you'd be able to handle and it makes you want to groan and just think oh my gosh get to the main characters I want to hear about already, and then suddenly making you feel so strongly for them it hurts (whether it's love or broiling hatred), and crafting plot twists that are so sneaky so diabolical they make you gasp out loud.
The ones we love from the first book--Connor, Risa, Lev, Hayden the new ones introduced in this one--Cam, Miracolina, Trace, Starkey, Nelson.
These books are messed up! I still feel sorry for kids brought up in this world! I think I would rather deal with a killer clown!!! Mel 🖤🐺🐾
I was always hoping there would be a sequel to Unwind (that ending was just too open-ended!!), but now that it's confirmed that there *will be* one.
Oh my goodness, I'm so excited, and I know nothing about the plot (more twists, turns, and suspense, of course), the timeframe (taking place a few months or YEARS after the first book?), or the characters (same cast or not?).
That is definitely the mark of a GREAT first book if I'm wondering about the sequel even YEARS before it may see print.
:)Anyway -- I love the word play with this title.
(Those are the pathways MY mind takes with the title, though.
Is it possible to get a heart attack from reading a book? Because these books should come with a warning label: ⚠Unsuitable for readers of weak constitution.⚠I am blown away. What the hell else can I say about Neal Schusterman by now?? This was a worthy sequel to an already phenomenal start. There wasn’t a single moment of boredom and what makes it even more of an epic read? (Aside from the winning plot, that is?) The characters. I can’t get over how utterly fascinating, incredibly fleshed out a
Is it possible to get a heart attack from reading a book?
Because these books should come with a warning label: ⚠️Unsuitable for readers of weak constitution.⚠️I am blown away.
There wasn’t a single moment of boredom and what makes it even more of an epic read?
(Aside from the winning plot, that is?) The characters.
I can’t get over how utterly fascinating, incredibly fleshed out and well written each character is.
In awe.
I’m in awe of his writing.
The thought and care that goes into his characters and the way every loose thread brilliantly interweaves at the exact perfect moment.
By the end of the season finale, I was completely reinvested in the story and anticipating next season.Likewise with UnWholly...Shusterman introduces three new characters who take up a good chunk of the novel with their background and development.
The most advanced technology exists and they still drink Aquafina's bottled sewer runoff?!" I actually like Shusterman's writing style but at this point in the story, I was so uninvested and detached that only nitpicking kept me engaged.And then all the tedious groundwork came together and Connor, Risa, and Lev started acting like Connor, Risa, and Lev again.
Shusterman also writes taut, tension-filled action scenes like few can.
“Words don't hurt you." Which is one of the hugest criminal lies perpetrated by adults against children in this world. Because words hurt more than any physical pain.” Not as perfect as the first book in the series but still pretty good for a follow-up if you ask me. Shusterman did justice to the characters, new and old ones alike. So the book picks up from where it left in book one when Connor was left in charge of the Whollies. The book kicks it off with a new character, Starkey, who I'm sure
The book kicks it off with a new character, Starkey, who I'm sure you'll find pretty easy to dislike.
Apart from Lisa and Lev who are still part of the story, we have some new characters accompanying each of our main characters journeys.
Still, this was really good and I enjoyed immensely every second of it and if you loved the first book then you're sure as hell going to like this one as well.What's more, Mr. Shushterman didn't forget a very important detail: that character development is really signifacant to having a great story.
4.5 stars Brutal. But spectacular. Review to come.
Actually, I really like the title :), makes me think of Lev...:)I don't know whether to rejoice or start crying that there's a sequel to 'the best book ever- no I mean it this time dude', Unwind. Some authors and series should quit while they're ahead *coughMaximumRidecough*. But I'm sure it will be excellent. The ending was very open and that's how I liked it. It allowed hope and optimism. The only thing I'm dreading is a Risa/Connor sex scene :P.
The juvies know where the graveyard is and are just waiting for an excuse to take it down for parts.Risa is trying to get through to Conner but he has built up so many walls.
Risa is trying to save the Graveyard but as she gets to know Cam she can see he is just as much a victim as everyone else in the Unwind game.
Risa and Conner struggle in this book but I love that they never really seem to give up on one another no matter if they are together or apart.
One of the best books I have ever read in my life. It was spectacular.Review pending.
I personally saw these new main characters as the "evil" versions of the original three, but that isn't really accurate in context.Starkey: The evil version of Connor.Miracolina: Levi when he sucked.Cam: Ok Cam isn't really similar to Risa, but dude definitely has enough going on already.Cons:I didn't love the first 2/3rds of the book.
I just imagined him with his old hair because that's a no from me.So in summary I didn't like Starkey and Miracolina and I thought 2 big sections of the story (graveyard and mansion) were boring.Pros:The last 1/3rd of the book was amazing.
*4.5 Stars* This document I sign of my own free will....I sign of my own free will.
...my own free will.
Okay, so, I wasn't going to write a review for this.
I finished last night and I was like...nah.
I'll leave it alone.
I know I'm going to read the third and I know that I love Connor and Risa and Lev, people don't want to hear me grumble on repeatedly.
Well, I wasn't guna!
I didn't have as deep a reaction as the first and I didn't want to write a mundane second review where my heart wasn't in
I know I'm going to read the third and I know that I love Connor and Risa and Lev, people don't want to hear me grumble on repeatedly.
I didn't have as deep a reaction as the first and I didn't want to write a mundane second review where my heart wasn't in it.
But, I'm going to venture to guess you won't want to stop if you like the first at all-but that's just me.For more of my reviews, please visit:
HOLY...!!!!!!!No way!
No WAY!
I can't even type right now, I'm so shocked.
I wonder if it'll be the same characters, or if we get new ones.But wait.
I have to wait till 2012!
(Trails of indefinitly)Edit Dec 20, 2011: YEA!!!!
Yea, yea, yea, yea!!!!Only 280 more days until Unwolly comes out.
*Long suffering sigh*Edit Apr 20, 2012: Holy Hell Weasley!
A description!
THERE"S FINALLY A DESCRIPTION!!!!
We've been waiting forever, but a description!!!Only 130 Days left...Edit Apr 21, 2012: *Imagine a cartoonish animation of a girl fainting here* A freaky cover!!!!
How totally Neal Shusterman is that cover.
129 days left...
Camus Camprix or Cam for short was created using all the best parts of unwound teens for unknown reasons by the corporate entities that hold sway over the Juvenile Authority.I wasn't sure quite what to expect with UnWholly since in many ways Unwind felt complete as they clearly expressed their message in a hard to ignore story.
Camus Comprix is equally disturbing because it's hard to understand why he was made in the first place other than him being a walking advertisement for what unwinding can do for a person.I think the most frightening aspect to me is that the Parts Pirates and Black Market aren't as scary as the Juvenile Authority as a whole.
Imagine a world where body part harvesting is not taboo, but commonplace.
Imagine someone else getting to make the decision for you to give your body parts to someone else.
Imagine walking around and seeing people on the street who are proudly sporting new limbs, eyes, and other various body parts.
Installment two of the Unwind series brought back the same beloved characters from book 1, but also threw in a couple of surprising new characters - one being a boy who was made entirely of recycled body parts.
This book made me worry! I worried about the main characters, because there were sections from the antagonists' POV and they showed what they were thinking and plotting. Then there's Cam, created from hundreds of unwinds - super creepy! And I wasn't sure how Shusterman would get the ending to work out, but then he did! And as most of you know, I'm very critical of endings but this one left me a bit breathless! I will definitely be reading the next in the series, UnSouled (I think). Although I'm already worried.
BBB Buddy ReadBOOM, FIVE STARS!!!!I need the next one soon! I need answers...I have questions and I want more CAM. I wonder what he's going to do and I need to know NOW!!!!
I really didn't like any of the new characters, except maybe Cam. I HATED STARKEY.
I hate him so much.I didn't like Miracolina, although she finally ended up having some growth and growing a brain.
Oh, I am so pissed that (view spoiler)[Trace was killed off.
(hide spoiler)] ALL BECAUSE OF STARKEY.
Trace was the one other character in this I liked and then THAT happened.I just don't think I care enough about the characters to read the last one.
I don't like the way the drama is set up either.
Buddy Read with Buddies Books and Baubles.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It is one of the most haunting YA reads I've ever encountered, and I was prepared to love Unwholly just as much.
Like he started out going in one direction, then just had a whole bunch of other ideas that he couldn't quite flesh out enough within the length of this book.
We get a little background about the Heartland war, and certainly Cam's character is something new.
Shusterman winds up boiling him down to much less than the sum of his parts.I was hoping for Unwholly to advance the explorations of Unwind, and instead it just shut the first book down entirely.
I disliked Starkey right off the bat, I still love Trace, and I have so many conflicting thoughts about Miracolina.
(hide spoiler)]Starkey:I hate him.
Cavenaugh and his people need to rethink their plan -- seriously, there's got to be a better way to go about rounding up would-be tithes than by proclaiming Lev as a god.
And then to think about how he's drawn people apart or together whether they were within inches or miles of each other *cough*Lev and Miracolina*cough*Cam and Risa*cough*(view spoiler)[AND SONIA.
This book was perfectly perfect and everything I wanted it to be. When I read this I pretend Lev is older, because if I don't I feel like a pedophile. He
Las palabras no hacen daño. —Y esta es una de las mentiras más enormes y criminales perpetradas por los adultos contra los niños en este mundo. Porque en realidad las palabras hacen más daño que el daño físico.
Cuatro estrellas un poco justas, pero cuatro.
En realidad podría coger el comentario hecho al primero de la saga y pegarlo aquí.
Con esto quiero decir que este segundo es una continuación del primero en cuanto a historia y personajes principales.
Aparece algún otro personaje que mantiene la talla: son interesantes y aportan algo a la historia …aunque no demasiado.
Pero las virtudes las mantiene en cuanto a adicción y personajes.
Un poco menos de valoración porque la trama se retuerce un poco sin ser demasiado novedosa y porque, claro, se pierde la sorpresa del woridbuilding que ya nos presentaron en el anterior.
I really,  really  hope I can get back into this book someday. I loved the first book and I have no idea why I've been stuck on this one for like two years??? I just don't have the motivation to finish it and I don't know why. It's been so long that when I do finish it, I don't think I can give it a rating. It would be unfair for me to rate it given my treatment towards it.
I really enjoyed the way Neal Shusterman dug deep to the creepy core of humanity and took the original premise of UNWIND, where teens could be salvaged for scrap body parts once they turned thirteen, and in this second installment, tried to come up with every sick "what if" scenario to keep the game fresh.
Just a really eerie dystopian scenario that was an exciting read.And of course, I loved catching up with our old friends Connor, Risa and Lev, all three of whom have developed into more interesting characters over the course of this second book.
Whoa, this was an absolutely mind blowing second book!!! As always, I'm very impressed by the variety of characters and how complex and cunning they all are. Super grateful about the way POC's and people with different religions are represented in this series. Can't wait to see where the story goes from here *-*
Berakhir dengan letup-letup harapan, para remaja di bawah umur--nggak habis pikir sih kalau kondisi mereka pada buku ini benar-benar terjadi--ini harus melawan para orang dewasa yang paranoid terhadap mereka.Perkembangan karakternya sungguh luar biasa!
Dan banyak benih-benih cinta yang ditabur pada buku ini.
Walaupun romannya terbilang lebih banyak tapi tidak sampai menyebalkan.Satu hal menyenangkan nan merepotkan tentang kisah-kisah petualangan berlatar Amerika Serikat adalah aku harus menyempatkan diri melirik peta untuk wawasan dan penggambaran imajinasi.
Dan aku tidak akan tahu Akron adalah nama kota sebelum melakukan hal itu.Terakhir: aku selalu suka dengan gaya penceritaan Neal Shusterman!
Sejauh ini, aku belum pernah membaca buku lain dengan gaya sepertinya.
I don't have much time to write a review because my fingers are itching to start the next book in the series.
But I'll keep it short and sweet: This book is badass.
And not only is the book badass but Shusterman as well.
How is it possible to write from so many POVs and make every voice so distinct and (while I do have favourite POVs) make each POV fun and exciting to read?
I heard Neal Shusterman a few weeks ago. He said in this book he will take it to a new level with something called organ printing. He told us to look it up. I did, and here is what I found. http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/stor... I can't wait to see where he goes with this. For all who did not want a sequel, he did not plan one at first, but his mind starting going in this new direction, and he must write!
