https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40389418-creativity
To have any effect, a creative idea must be couched in terms that are understandable to others, pass muster with the experts in the field (i.e. the gatekeepers to the domain), and be included within the cultural domain (the set of symbolic rules or procedures) to which it belongs.
In this systems view, the definition of a creative person is someone whose thoughts or actions change a domain or establish a new domain (pp.
Also on the issue of faith, I found the author's grouping on page 371 of studying the bible with addictive behaviors such as cruising the internet and betting on horse races to be rather laughable!).Some additional personal nuggets I gleaned from this book include the following:1.
79—but note that I was using a horizontal orientation to my eBook which almost doubles the page count) In order to cover that aspect of creativity, he sees creativity as the interrelations between a tripartite system: domain (symbolic rules and procedures), field (authorities who act as “gatekeepers” to the domain), and person (the individual who expresess a new idea or pattern while still using the symbols and methodologies of a given domain) (pp.
269) This resonates with my limited personal experience (corresponding with my limited creativity), especially when one considers a later observation in the book: “Cognitive theorists believe that ideas, when deprived of conscious direction, follow simple laws of association.
Mihaly describes the creative process as having 3 elements: 1) a culture that contains symbolic rules 2) a person who brings novelty into the symbolic domain 3) as field of experts who recognize and validate the innovation.
Also centers of creative activity tend to be at the intersection of different cultures, where beliefs, lifestyle, and knowledge mingle and allow individuals to see new combinations of ideas with greater ease.Creative types are seen as selfish and ruthless b/c of the single-minded pursuit of their goals that lead them to flow.
I'd give this book six stars, if I could.
This is a sprawling and masterful objective analysis of input from dozens of luminaries in various fields and domains, and Csikszentmihalyi assesses the commonalities, differences, and important disparities between them.
No matter what kind of a life you are trying to lead, you can gain a lot of useful insight from the material covered here.
What makes this such an important book is the way that Csikszentmihalyi tries to be objective and scientific about the endeavor, instead of engaging in 'New Age-y,' feel-good crap.
This isn't a self-help book, it's a deep analysis of survey results, and as such, it is actually meaningful.
I believe this is a seminal book for anyone interested in the psychology of the creative process.
I think this is a seminal book for anyone interested in the psychology of the creative process.
The organization of the material makes the subject matter easy to follow, and builds from context of creativity to process, to specifics and eventually to conclusions -- though he delivers enough conclusory info all along so one doesn't have to wait too long to get the important punch lines.
That he regularly supports his discourse with long quotes from the interviewees makes it all the more credible and specific.
If and when I begin my Oprah-esque empire, in addition to constantly touting Fizzy Lizzy's (best drink ever!!!) I will also employ this brilliant man as my guru. Fortunately for my fan base, this man is an actually intellectual who has devoted himself to the study of psychology and not some quack that believes if you just imagine that you have a refrigerator with a DVD player, one will materialize. Also, Csikszentmihali never did a match.com commercial.

The other important theme running through the book is that creativity is worth pursuing as a goal in itself, even if it never brings fame and fortune.While we are creating, be it a piece of art, a musical score or a mathematical model of something, if the challenge at hand matches our level of skill, then we enter a state of 'flow', and that in itself justifies our effort.
This is what makes the pursuit of skill in a domain(art,music,math) so important, because it enables us to create and enter 'flow' states.
Наверное, это самое полное и достоверное исследование природы креативности из всех, которые можно найти. Автор излагает материал структуровано, без "воды" и с множеством ссылок на релевантные исследования и литературу. Одна из тех научных книг, читать которую вообще не скучно, а едва добравшись до середины, уже хочется перечитывать.
With a name that will always be associated with the concept of 'flow', Mihaly Csiksgentmihalyi was a likely choice for a book giving a scientific view of creativity.
This, frankly, was also fairly hard work with little concrete scientific analysis provided.A final section, protestingly (as Csiksgentmihalyi doesn't want this to be a self-improvement book particularly) adds ways to enhance personal creativity.
Although what's here isn't bad, it tries hard to ignore most of the work that has been done on enhancing creativity, so skirts around the kind of techniques espoused by the likes of de Bono and Osborn without really acknowledging them, which is a shame and makes it relatively weak in practical terms.The book is worth reading for the first 150 pages, which make up the section on what creativity is and how it works.
"This book which attempts to bring together 30 years of research on how creative people live and work is an effort to make more understandable the mysterious process by which men and women come up with new ideas and new things."What makes people creative?
that's his question that he wants to answer.
And at the same time he wants creativity that makes the change.
He mentioned all the things that he thinks you should have so it lead you to creativity.
For example, mastery comes before creativity.
Also, talked about the myth about creative people.
Moreover, happiness related to creativity.
Great book about discovery and invention and creativity , it is too big and it went too long and was repetitive in some parts but generally I gained a lot of information from it about the life of creative people and how to more creative in my life.
Hmm I don’t want to rate this book because after 5 years of not reading any Human Development books -which I’m against- I might find this book interesting at the beginning then ending up judging it as trivial few years later. Anyhow found some cool facts and motivating stories between the lines but the whole idea could have been plotted through half of the book. Wouldn’t deny that some chapters gave me a creativity boost and I may end up doing something after all.
So, I’ve been very fond of Csikzentmihalyi’s work since Flow, and I think this book is the perfect sequel to an esoteric field of psychology. It provides much insight into the working minds of prolific persons within a particular field and/or domain, and breaks down the working order of insights that these people have and also provides a coherent order of hierarchy in how to be and become a creative individual. The last couple of chapters had me tugging for more. Great book.
rambles. 15 hours of rambles.a couple good quotes. some interesting history snippets.still not sure what was meant by creativity as it was spelled out differently like 14 times.I feel like this book was "the random stuff I learned writing about flow that I wanted to put in a book so I made another book loosely about 'creativity'"
Creative people are able to express the full range of traits that are potentially present in the human repertoire but usually atrophy because we think that one or the other pole is good, whereas the other extreme is bad.
Creative people express psychological androgyny: they have the ability to be at the same time dominant and submissive aggressive and nurturant, sensitive and rigid, regardless of their gender thus doubling their repertoire of responses and as a result of that they interact with the world in a richer way.
I'm most likely not creative enough to come up with a divergent perspective on the presented exploration of what constitutes creativity, but the point is to not give up in the face of difficulty. A motivation to read this book for students, soon-to-be parents, or just anyone with a minimal passion for self-improvement is to better understand the contributing factors to creativity and flow.
You need that energy to direct to your goal.Some problems with the above conclusions:1) At times reads like a deification of creative persons while 'claiming' that the intention of the study is to help 'ordinary' persons (visions of author pushing up glasses with finger pointed at the non-creative non-privileged)2) Mind-numbingly narrow range of creative domains for a mind-numbingly narrow chronological period.
I think while some of the conclusions about attention/flow are perhaps universals when it comes to creativity, the scope and range of experiences described is at times disappointingly repetitive.3) No room for fun.

It provides a definition of creativity that I've never thought about before, that includes not only the creative person, but also the community/specialists whose recognition are needed for the creativity to be valid.The book is very well organized.
The book talks about creativity, creative people, and the creative process.
There are also a lot of examples that make the presented ideas easy to understand.Rather than a how-to book, I find an exploration of what creativity is and how it comes about much more interesting.
I think this book is essential for anyone who considers themselves creative.
The bulk of the book is based on research into people whose creative contributions to their fields created paradigm shifts.
In fact, Creativity with a capital c is defined for the purposes of the book as creating paradigm shifts.
The stories of individual people and the analysis of what contributed to their success are fascinating if erudite.
The final chapter makes a claim that creativity (little c) that doesn't change the world is still of value in how it impacts an individual's experience of the world and then sets forth a prescription, ostensibly culled from the research presented in the earlier part of the book for how to cultivate creativity.
One cannot be creative without learning what others know, but then one cannot be creative without becoming dissatisfied with that knowledge and rejecting it (or some of it) for a better way.” (90) Mastery of something leads not only to having the skills and understanding to be creative, but also to a sense of enjoyment.
Without this quality, they could not have sustained the hard work, the ‘perspiration.’ Curiosity and drive are in many ways the yin and the yang that need to be combined in order to achieve something new.” (185)Near the end of the book, Csikszentmihalyi provides a series of lists of advice.
with all respect to the author, i felt that the study of creative people which formed the basis of this book wasn't all that impressive.
the conclusions on the dialectic poles in creative people's personalities sounded especially fuzzy to me.
while the author seemed to suggest that creativity entails possessing dual personalities, what i personally perceived was that it was simply a snapshot of the characteristics of the general population which naturally comprises the two extremes.
simply put, i felt that there could not be concrete conclusions drawn from this study as it was really describing a normally distributed population.
An excellent overview of a difficult topic.
However, this comes off as more of a philosophical exploration than something more concrete.
The focus is more on the cultural environment that can promote creativity than on individual creativity.
Contradiction is the norm.
Both good and poor childhoods can lead to creativity.
Mostly, avoid the comfortable middle.
Explore outside your area of focus, but also become an expert in your area of focus.
Be open, but also focused and immersed.
Bottom line - it is hard to be genuinely creative and to break out of prescribed domains, accepted thoughts, and ways of doing things.
Csikszentmihalyi’s Flow really blew my mind and I have been eager to read Creativity for a long time. This is not a “How to be Creative” book. This book examines the psychology of creativity and reads almost like a textbook. It’s not an easy read but there are some valuable takeaways for people from any background who want to think more creatively. I was also surprised that he focused more on creative people in the sciences than the arts. If you are going to read one of Csikszentmihalyi’s books I recommend reading Flow; Creativity is bonus material.
If you're looking for a prescriptive self-help book on developing your creativity, this might not be the book for you. Csikszentmihalyi conducts a survey on several creative individuals of extraordinary renown (I'm talking nobel prize winners here) and records their answers. The advice offered is quite varied and is meant to be pondered over by the reader. Csikszentmihalyi remains as objective as he possibly can. If you enjoyed Flow you'll probably like this one too, although Flow is easily the more thought provoking of the two.
Creativity may seem an elusive concept, but as a process it can be broken down into certain steps. Creativity usually happens in a system that contains a domain, a field and a person. Creative people pull inspiration from life; they work in a “flow” state and even stay creative far into old age. Importantly, the survival of the human race depends on creativity, so we as a society need to encourage its development. So work to cultivate creativity every day!
I enjoyed this book enormously. I would easily recommend this book to any person who is either creative or just intrigued by the arts. Why? Because it reminds us all that the possibility of happiness is a mindful challenge. The book delves into the domain of the creative process. A work of wonder!I quote from the book: "Creative persons differ from one another in a variety of ways, but in one respect they are unanimous: The all love what they do" Creativity by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
This book is pretty good, although it is not concise. I am much more interested in the theoretical concepts behind creativity, and how to become more creative myself. This book did give me that information, but it also included maybe 60 to 100 anecdotes. I do recommend this book if you're looking to become more creative, but I would probably just tell you to read certain chapters.
This is a heavier read, but absolutely wonderful and insightful about the lives of creative people. The author interviewed some of the most creative people of our time, and broke up the book into chapters of discussions about the creative process, domains, culture, etc., adding in bits and pieces from these people.
