https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831175.Across_the_Wide_Missouri
He tells this story with a tinge of nostalgia and melancholy, but also with an eye toward the hard realities of the mountain man’s life.Any review of a DeVoto book has to begin with the man himself.
He tells the story of a long list of people from several different entities: the men of the American Fur Company; the men of the Rocky Mountain Fur Company; the outfitting firm of Sublette & Campbell;the men of the Hudson’s Bay Company; a United States Army officer named Benjamin Bonneville; a Massachusetts speculator named Nathaniel Jarvis; and the missionaries Marcus and Narcissa Whitman.
However, the book does an able job of weaving together some of the disparate forces affecting the West at the time, including competition among the St. Louis-based fur companies for a declining trade, the efforts of the British Columbia-based Hudson's Bay Company to control the same trade,the actions of the Indians caught between these forces, the beginning of missionary activity in the Pacific Northwest,the smallpox epidemic of the 1830s, and just over the horizon, the impending beginning of the great migration by wagon trains commencing in the 1840s.
The subject of this book - the fur trade - lasted less than 20 years before the mountains were trapped out and fashions in Europe and China moved away from beaver felt hats.
DeVoto of course covers that stretch in his book "The Year of Decision."This book has really good numbers on the disastrous 1837 smallpox outbreak among the Mandan, Arikara, Sioux, Blackfeet, and other Upper Missouri tribes.
I began to do that a lot more toward the end of the book.DeVoto has that old-school style that was taught in colleges during the Depression and earlier, and this can strike the modern reader as a bit strange, off-putting at times.
But what I like about it most is that it deals with a period of time in which neither of the future belligerents were quite so much at odds with each other- the whites had not quite yet begun to break their promises, so mountain men could exist as a culture between the two.
And probably just like a mountain man, too.
It's not without its bias (toward the United States) but nevertheless has a good deal of respect for the original cultures and yet recognizes (hindsight being the historian's task) -simultaneously- "mistakes were made."
The fur trade is to me one of the more fascinating eras in American history.
Ostensibly the history of the climax and decline of the fur trade, but DeVoto fails to provide a coherent sense of how these companies operated.
My sense is he wanted to focus on the fur traders but the lack of a larger perspective made it difficult to link the traders with the trade.
I would rather have gotten a larger sense of Jim Bridger the trader than know every trade route he traversed.
DeVoto put his heart into it. This book captures the true nature of the trappers as they caught beavers and grabbed what they could as the single decade brought out the best and the worst in man. This is one of the best books I have ever read. History will not repeat itself; the 1830s were the decade of the mountain men.
One of my all-time favorite books, by one of the best writers I've encountered, at least in the nonfiction realm. It's superb.
Dry at times, but some really amazing stories of actual mountain men in the 19th century west.
This did not start out as an easy book to get into but it was well worth the effort.
Each chapter stands on its own even-though some of the same early west characters appear many times throughout 20-year period being studied.
The author is a first rate writer and historian and he has drawn on both primary and secondary sources.
He also includes his own interpretation of events when individual accounts differed.
Overall this book provides an excellent perspective on period following the Lewis and Clark expedition and the opening of the west and the Indian wars.
excellent read. This book was published in 1947, so a reader might notice a style not seen today. Some of the language might seem stilted or arcane. He gives a realistic account of living in mountains of the west among Indians and the other perils. I like that he is not apologetic of what was then the norm.
This book was a bit of a slog. I liked reading about the mountain men and the different company factions glad handing and back stabbing one another, but DeVoto is long-winded and his exhaustive history is exhausting to read. I felt like I deserved some sort of merit badge for getting through it.
Loved it - so full of history
I really like this book - chronicling the Rocky Mountain fur trade of the 1830s.
Including such remarkable names as Jim Bridger, Kit Carson, Marcus & Narcissa Whitman and lesser known yet no less hardy individuals like Jason Lee, Nat & John Wyeth, Milton Sublette, Lucienne Fontenelle and Joe Meek among others.p. 213The Hudson's Bay Company had the wisest of all systems--or what would have been the wisest if history had cooperated.
The Company's history in the Pacific Northwest is not a chronicle of solitary murder and impromptu war, the bloody history of the American fur trade, but the orderly record of the British imperial caste dealing wisely, sternly, and profitably with any set of natives.p. 220Nevertheless Doctor Marcus Whitman roused himself and got to work.
I also discovered that his biography was written by another favorite author of mine, Wallace Stegner.
Funny how things are all related...Anyhow, this book is about the fur trade in the late 1700's and the 1800's.
Having read it helped me to more fully understand the role of the fur trade as depicted in my most recently read novel - Tenderness of Wolves.Given this author's status and reputation, I will likely read more of his work despite my somewhat lukewarm response to this book.
A masterfully-written account of the history of the fur trade in the Northwestern United States.
It provided that material for a fictional screenplay made into a movie of the same name, starring Clark Gable and Ricardo Montalban.DeVoto, perhaps better known as a Mark Twain scholar, wrote with a richness and wit that seems almost extinct today.
He was a political maverick who was unafraid to take on J.
Edgar Hoover at a time when the F.B.I. Director was virtually untouchable.
Yet, today Devoto's humor would probably be so politically incorrect that he couldn't be in a lot of high school libraries.
At first, DeVoto's style drove me crazy, since I like my history written in plain, unassuming English, but as he wrote he seems to have lossened up and by the end of the book I appreciated his digressions and comments, even his footnotes. The real problems I had with this book were the lack of any map (this problem is not DeVoto's but the compilers of this edition)and DeVoto's assumption that his readers already possess a fairly comprehensive knowledge of American history. My knowledge was not comprehensive enough to fully appreciate the story DeVoto tells.
At times, I felt I was part of the story. A humanized version of the rise and fall of the Rocky Mountian fur trade and the lives of those changed by the westward expansion of the United States. Based on first-hand accounts of the era, the subject was researched in detail and gives far accounts of whites and the Plains Indians alike. Perhaps a bit romanticized, but none the less a relevant expression of two ways of life inevitably lost.
If you are interested in the opening of the West by the fur trade, and gaining a lot of insight about the first contacts with Native American tribes, this is a fantastic book. It will put you deep into the material and you will never be able to skip across the surface of this era again. I loved everything about this book, and will read it again. Soon.
I was oddly disappointed. I expected too much, perhaps, from Devoto. Found the going hard, writing did not hold up well against my last favorite of this type, Ambrose's UNDAUNTED COURAGE, which I really enjoyed.
Fun book about mountain men and the fur trade.
Factual but a little dry at times, The action came in spurts.
Great overview of the mountain men's best years from about 1831 to 1839 with crusty observations on missionaries to the Indians, etc. He has a style of his own.
Wasn't enjoying the writing so have put it away for now.
Reads just like you'd imagine a book from the late 1940's waxing poetic about the Wild West would. Not a single mention of the ecology. Cool stuff about the sexual mores of the Crows nation.
Great read of the decline and fall of the fur trapping industry of the mid-1830's. DeVoto is a brilliant historian, and quite witty. Read 'The Course of Empire' by DeVoto before taking this on.
This is the story of the climax and decline of the Rocky Mouontain fur trade during the 1830's, illustrating how it shaped the American west.
Devoto can write. very readable book and good history.
Oddly, I didn't find this interesting.
