https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198259.War_is_a_Racket
He refers to it as a racket in the sense that the corporate world that pulls the strings of the U.S. government uses the American military as muscle essentially the same way as organized crime uses its low-ranking members.Butler was not a pacifist - he advocated a true department of defense, staffed, organized, stationed, and equipped so as to protect America but not to create or maintain an empire.He showed his integrity once again in retirement, when a group of industrialists, concerned by the Depression and outraged by FDR's New Deal programs, planned to carry out a coup, overthrow the government, and put a puppet "president" in office.
This falls under the category of "Must Read." Butler's argument is that the wealthy elite benefit financially from war while everyone else suffers, either through fighting in the wars or else from paying for the war that the rich get richer from.
Part of what makes the book so powerful is Butler's history: he fought in WWI and was the most decorated soldier of his lifetime when he wrote this.
Read this each time some person on the news states the case for another war and you'll likely see how hollow their words are and how much weight Butler's words carry.
War Is A Racket is an in your face exposé about the lies politicians tell American taxpayers to justify their bloodthirsty and psychopathic lust for war.Impressive quotes:I spent 33 years in the Marines, most of my time being a high-class muscle man for big business, for Wall Street and the bankers.
At the end of the World War period, as a direct result of our fiddling in international affairs, our national debt had jumped to over $25,000,000,000.
No one mentioned to them, as they marched away, that their going and their dying would mean huge war profits.
We must take the profit out of war.
The awarding of military contracts--underpins capitalism and has us locked in a vicious cycle which still goes on today (Halliburton, KBR, etc).Butler makes a great point: after the Civil War but before the age of 'gunboat diplomacy', before the age of American Imperialism, (before we had jingoistic adventures in Japan, China, Tripoli, the Philippines) we had a paltry national debt of just $1m.
After the pattern of foreign wars began, our national debt has never receded.
Not to mention American lives that were lost.President Woodrow Wilson got elected on an anti-war platform.
Written in the 1930's by a highly decorated Marine Corps General this short book is an essay exposing the utter scam that every war that America has been involved in for at least the past 100 years has been.
Although it exposes the horrors and damage that war causes both in Butlers essay and with the inclusion of some gruesome photos War is a Racket is not some limp wristed pacifist liberal tripe.
He exposes how these wars are ferminted, who is behind them and who profits from them.
There is also a introduction written by Adam Parfrey that gives a good basic history of Butler and his life.
Is War a Racket?'For a great many years, as a soldier, I had a suspicion that war was a racket'.
I have been told 'This was the "war to make (America) safe (from Terrorism)." No mentioned to (us), as we marched away, that (our) going and (our) dying would mean huge war profits'.As a soldier I have to agree with almost everything that Gen. Smedley Butler, a two time Medal of Honor winner has to say in this book.
Yes, the politicians paint the picture that we are here to ensure that Al Qaeda doesn't come back to power, and so that Afghanistan can become an independent nation.
With such an eye catching title and knowledge of the author I had to check out his controversial views.
One should separate his military service from his active retirement.Upon retirement in the 1930’s with politics in his blood Butler crisscrossed America voicing his opinion of big business and war.
His main theory was: Money (Wall Street / Big Business) + War = Racket.
Therefore to some degree Butler is correct and it is healthy to ask questions, big questions however his conclusions seem too absolute.
I’m thankful for America’s freedom of speech and freedom of press where Butler could openly express his views to others.
Such a simple and powerful and obvious statement.What's interesting about Smedley is that he's not against war in a general sense.
To put it a different way: he was not against war, but he was against imperialism.Smedley dissects WWI in quick and simple ways that are sort of a cost benefit analysis.
Or, I'm not shocked, because this is exactly the kind of book that powerful people don't want you to read.
It really is a simple book, and a clear explanation of who benefits and who loses in war.The TL;DR version is: you lose, and soldiers lose more.Banks and arms-dealers make big.
http://www.ratical.org/ratville/CAH/w...The recitation of figures, combined with the Mad As Hell tone sometimes makes him sound like a drunk accountant railing at his bosses in the bar on Friday night, but it doesn't negate his points in the slightest.
I can imagine that after having his epiphany about the profit-driven motive for WW1, the gathering storm clouds of war in the mid-30s had him going out of his mind at insane history repeating itself.A shortened version (sans the famous quote cited in several other reviews here) is at the link above.
You owe it to yourself to read it if you have an interest in WW1 and the cyclical nature of America's foreign military adventures.
I have to admit, all of the hype I'd encountered before finally getting to this book led me to believe that this would be an articulate and impassioned voice of "right" over "might" from the pen of one the USMC's mightiest warriors.
However, Smedley seems to reduce the "cost" of war primarily to its economic terms and goes into the $$$ figures of how much companies make during war-time and preparation for war-time.
Smedley died before WWII and all of the statistics and numbers he gives in this "op/ed" piece are really chump change compared to what transpired after the military industrial complex truly exploded.
This powerful, easily read book is as relevant today as the day it was originally published. It takes about an hour to read. Treat yourself to the insights of a man who has seen from the inside the fraud perpetrated on the American public for most of the nation's history, then get angry and do something about it. War is a horror we can do without, especially since it's driven by greed and promoted almost exclusively with lies.
Smedley Butler was only one of two Marines and nineteen Americans to be awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor twice. After his retirement from the Corps he wrote an article condemning war as a means for some people to get rich(er) without their families serving in the Armed Forces. He was also a champion of veteran's rights. This work is a thoughtful collection of his speeches and papers on the subjects. A good read for thought.
What Butler saw in his day certainly lives on in ours; young men and women being sent off to fight for a cause that isn't what they think it is, profit masquerading as patriotism, men stuffing their wallets off a war that costs them nothing while shattered minds and bodies pay everything for nothing in return. Butler's manner is very approachable, like an old man at a fireside, but this old man has the edperience to back up his words. We would do well to heed his counsel.
After that, he began to speak out about the real motives behind America's military actions--profit.Just before World War I, the profit margin of the average American corporation was in the single digits (6%, 8%, perhaps 10% profit yearly).
The parallels with today are too numerous to mention.The next time war is declared, and conscription is on the horizon, Butler proposes a limited national plebiscite on whether or not America should go to war.
The separate pieces were published in a time when many Americans felt that getting involved in another European war that had nothing to do with America, was a terrible idea.
Major General Butler's main point is spot on; war is (predominately) a racket arranged by politicians to achieve their own ends while attempting to disguise their war efforts as defending "freedom." However, the General only demonstrates that certain companies turned a profit while supplying the US government during WWI.
What the General would have done better to do would have been to demonstrate that, behind the scenes, the product suppliers were the very people pressuring Woodrow Wilson into the war.
I agree with General Butler that WWI was not a legitimate war.
Notably, he is one of only 19 people to be twice awarded the Medal of Honor, and one of only three to be awarded a Marine Corps Brevet Medal and a Medal of Honor, and the only person to be awarded a Marine Corps Brevet Medal and a Medal of Honor for two different actions.In addition to his military career, Smedley Butler was noted for his outspoken anti-interventionist views, and his book War is a Racket.
Eye-opening stuff this, really.War is a Racket by Smedley ButlerMajor General Smedley Butler & The Fascist Takeover Of The USA - A Warning From History
Smedley Butler's insight is extraordinary – extraordinary in terms of his highly informed experiences, and extraordinary in terms of its modernity.'War is a Racket', as many observers note, could have been written as a critique of our time.
Butler's observations would be equally valid during the Roman Empire, the expansion of the British Empire, the conquest of South America by Spain and Portugal...
pretty much any organised society that has commercial, political and military functions.War is a racket.
War was a racket during Smedley Butler's time.
And war will continue to be a racket for a very long time.
Only a thinking soldier is ever truly a hero, and real heroes are what governments ruled by mislaid incentives despise the most.What's surprising as one reads this is how World War II and even the paradigm shift of the Cold War and subsequent intervention policy seem only to have exacerbated the scale of the problem described in Butler's thesis rather than changing any fundamental feature of it.Perhaps the broader tragedy is that such a short, cogent argument by one of the most decorated soldiers in history is not considered required reading.
An important message that must be heard. It's a little sad that in our culture it seems only a two-time winner of the Congressional Medal of Honor can say something like this and be taken seriously, but that's the world we live in. On another note I felt a little disappointed that my copy of this book was only 35 pages long. I presume that other versions of this book are supplemented with other writing by Butler, but 35 pages??? That's not a book, that's an op-ed.
Incredible. It reminded me of some of Orwell's essays.
I picked it up on Amazon and I am better for it after reading.
Included in this book is his Amendment For Peace, which details three things we should amend to the constitution and why we should have never left our shores looking for a fight.
This was an eye opening read and I think very soon I shall read it again, just to take in everything this master of Antiwar has to say.
Every now and again something like this comes across my radar and I am better for it.
This has had me thinking ever since and probably will for awhile.
Smedley demonstrates the high public cost and resultant high business profits of war, giving many examples of US companies which greatly increased their profits during WW1.
Smedley makes the amusing (from a detached perspective) observation that in WW1 the US cleverly replaced recruitment bonuses with medals.
Far less amusingly, Smedley describes how in 1916, a delegation from the allies visited President Wilson and bluntly told the president that the allies would lose the war, and thus no be able to repay the six billion dollars they owed to the USA.
Nonetheless, General Butler's detailed, quantitative critique of war profiteering and the corruption he witnessed as a Marine is damning.
His proposed solutions to war — make war industry leaders work at soldiers' pay levels to see how hard it is; stop predatory financial practices targeting veterans; and let all military-age Americans vote whether or not to OK a war — aren't going to happen anytime soon, but they inspire reflection and capture a past socialist ethos in America.
Butler was a brave man, and he shows us that military veterans, at least in retirement, need not be uncritical of militarism.
It is an odd little read and while you agree with some of the author's assumptions, others are contradictory.
However, the fact that large companies and individuals reaped fortunes from the war, although somewhat disturbing, is a part of free trade and has been a side effect of war that will always hold true The author doesn't really expound on how that should be avoided.
Additionally the book was published in the late 1930s, so the isolationist approach that the author takes may seem a little dated.It is worth a try if you are interested in how business and war are so tightly intertwined.
This is an odd little book.
The modern introduction is almost unreadable, though I appreciated the mention of another book I want to look at, 1000 Americans by George Seldes.
Part of the book is an isolationist tract, whose arguments are weakened by the advent of the missile age, rendering the oceans no longer our protector, and by the Holocaust, I think.
But the Amendment for Peace has merit, and Butler is dead on when he says that war is a racket--follow the money.
War is a lucrative business now central to our economy and hard to back away from.
Smedley Butler was a US General and one of the most decorated soldiers in the history of the US Military. Yet where most would have heard the names of MacArthur, Westmoreland, Schwartzkoff, Powell and Eisenhower, Smedley Butler is almost unknown. His short and damming assessment of the business of war might explain why. Certainly worth reading.
A concise masterpiece on the inhumane motivations behind wars. Told in blunt, no-nonsense talk from an insider, the General delivers the very thoughts on war I had always dreaded. Money is power. Power begets more money. In any way possible. The rest of us pay dearly. Sad truth, but critical it be known and spread to every person on Earth.
Today, we are knee deep in total and utter putrid shit.This here little book seems tame now, but I guess it packed a punch back in the day; hence my very generous 4 stars.I admire Smedley's big brass balls for writing such a 'piece' - back when few knew how corrupt and disgusting governments and bankers are.Today, we all know - they are all lying Twunts.
Our nation is masquerading as the 'good guys' on the World stage, whilst continuing our colonialist 'manifest-destiny' agenda.
We are, indeed, well along into a 'new' DARK AGE!!!We - our nation, wouldn't just allow these things to happen.
From the people we trust as our friends!Quote: “A nation can survive its fools, and even the ambitious.
'bestest friends in the WHOLE WIDE WORLD'- are to fear..
Vanunu is a former Israeli nuclear technician who, citing his opposition to weapons of mass destruction, revealed details of Israel's nuclear weapons program to the British press in 1986.
They took our World news away from us.
Consider, General Butler’s statements both on the eve of and during the beginning of the Second World War with President Eisenhower’s farewell address on 17 January 1961 with statements of the “Military Industrial Complex.” For Butler, the Japanese were already raping China and for Eisenhower the Soviets had already launched Sputnik, all the language used by Butler on "no attack in the USA will come" and for Eisenhower the American space program was in its infancy born in a time based "need" as even he himself could see the horizon of issues with the USSR; the space program was created with Allied agreement in order to protect the Western Hemisphere.
