https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/680141.Sister_of_The_Road
The female "You Can't Win," sort of. Belongs on the top shelf of your Hobo Studies collection, or at least of mine.
And the book was radical and inspiring, right up until the afterward, where it was confessed that Sister of the Road was not, in fact, an autobiography, but rather a work of fiction.
Let's just say that I was very annoyed.I still think that Sister of the Road is an interesting story and one worth reading.
After all, Reitman based this book largely on three women that he knew, as well as material from hundreds of conversations he had with various tramps, hoboes, and other people on the road throughout the course of his life.
Though the protagonist is clearly fictional, the world she lives in rings true...
at least based on what I know from history books and old movies.
And speaking of old movies, Reitman isn't much physical description, so I'd advise watching some period cinema on YouTube before reading to better imagine the scenery.
The most valuable thing about the book, to my mind, is how it clearly demonstrates the emancipated frame of mind is not a modern invention.
Long before the Beats and Hippies there were Free Spirits who defied bourgeois convention to live imaginatively and adventurously.
She criss-crossed the country, a la Kerouac, but instead of riding shotgun with a madcap pill-popping drag-racing pothead, did most of her traveling hopping freight cars, sometimes alone, often partnered up with a social agitator beau, or conspiring among other “sisters of the road.” (Last night I watched the Martin Scorsese adaptation of her life's testimony, Boxcar Bertha, from 1972 and starring Barbara Hershey as Bertha-- I was shocked at the fictional liberties the filmmakers pursued, basically ripping off Bonnie and Clyde, turning Bertha into a hayseed moll in a bankrobbing Depression-era gang, ignoring the progressive do-right spirit that marks Bertha as a genuinely selfless champion of workers' and especially women's rights.)This was in the 1920s and 1930s, a period of labor “agitation,” when workers often martyred themselves against police and a punitive justice system so that future generations might have better contractual rights, fairer pay, insurance benefits, and a decent pension.
Some of the oral histories recorded by Bertha read as if they were taken from real people Reitman met in his hobo days.
He merely gives us the stories of hobos (transients looking for work), tramps (those without money who tramp around for excitement or adventure), bums (those addicted to drugs and alcohol who have lost all respectability), con artists, grifters, prostitutes, pimps, the honest unemployed on relief, anarchists, leftist radicals, blacks, free love advocates, migrant workers, Wobblies, the gay subculture, etc.
Reitman offers honest and direct discussions of VD, birth control, and abortion, with Bertha working for awhile at an underground abortion clinic.
This memoir of Boxcar Bertha chronicles her family, friends, and her extensively traveled life.
Even though I didn't really buy the author's voice as that of a woman, I am intrigued by the Nabat series it belongs to, "dedicated to reprinting memoirs of truly interesting and meaningful lives and real adventures on the margins of what Kenneth Rexroth called 'the social lie'."Bertha's book was first published in 1937, imploring "who can remain quiet and peace-loving and be content just to vote.
Box-Car Bertha: An Autobiography as told to Dr. Ben L.
Reitman (Amok Press 1988) (305.5).
Box-Car Bertha was one of the original woman hoboes during the Great Depression.
Reitman was an actual medical doctor in Chicago who treated venereal diseases and performed abortions for the lowest of the bowery bums; he was known for treating his patients with respect and compassion.
He worked tirelessly serving the under-served and the dispossessed, unless he had locked up his medical office and jumped aboard a freight train for an extended run.
This book has as an appendix Reitman's statistical analysis of how these people could be better served.
this is the story of a freewheeling anarchist lady hobo who travels the country in the 1920's and 30's, hanging out with all sorts of radicals and getting into all sorts of adventures.
this book was really interesting and easy-to-read, although i suspect it's actually fiction by ben reitman & not an autobiography.
it was really inspiring & fun.
i would have given it four stars but i was turned off by all the homophobia!
and it sucks.
(one of them says, mysteriously, "lesbians are god's stepchildren." that's supposed to be an insult.
what the fuck???!!
NABAT finally makes it clear that his book is a work of fiction - based on true stories as told to or experienced by Dr Reitman. I read this book while researching my own book regarding my great-aunt who was a female hobo for 15 months in 1925. "Boxcar Bertha" is set in the 1930s. Her "experience" is dramatically different from that of my great-aunt but none-the-less interesting. I beleive this book would appeal more to the student of sociology than an historian.
This book was such an inspiration to me. It is still one of my favorites. Although it was purported to be one woman named Boxcar Bertha,it is an amalgamation of many strong, radical women that Dr. Ben Reitman, the radical doctor of prostitutes, met over many years in the early 20th century. It is the story of hobos, prostitutes, labor organizers, and con artists doing what they could to survive in America.
This is a very fun read. As I understand it, it was sold as a memoir, but later revealed to be fiction. That controversy doesn't diminish the story. Published in 1937, it's very readable, and filled with authentic details. My copy (from 1937) has an appendix with statistics and anecdotal information about homelessness and "radicals" in the 1930s.
Not really an autobiography, which is the clue given that it was “written by” someone else. They believe Boxcar Bertha was either based on someone Reitman knew or a conglomeration of the many hobos he met.
May or may not be true but it's still a damn fine page turner. This book was another of my late night reads at the laundromat.
The main character is an amalgamation of several hobo women that the author had met and interviewed over the years.
While the story of female hobos was not often discussed in the literature of the time, the impact of the realities of life for them (prostitution, the possibilities of rape, etc.) is minimalized by the obvious fact that the author is pushing an agenda.
He does offer us many case histories of the actual women hobos at the time and gives us snippets of their background.
However the author constantly returns to the subject of free love and the idea that marriage was slavery for women.
Watch out!
This book is not well-written.
Maybe it's because when Ben Reitman penned this tome language was used in different ways, but more so because it becomes fairly obvious very quickly that Bertha is not a real person; she's a collection of stories that are designed to shock the conventional expectations of the time.
Liberal in everything from sex to politics, Bertha is a metaphor for how things should be, how open-minded people should act.
It's a rollicking ride, don't get me wrong, but there's too much stuff crammed into Bertha's life.
It's a sociological document, not a historical one.
Technically it qualifies as a novel, but is a sociological study as well as Boxcar Bertha is a fictional character, an amalgam of probably three women early 20th Century radicals.While Reitman paints a compelling picture of Bertha as a rider of the rails, anarchist, believer in free love, and philosopher-at-large, what is missing in the book is the desperation of the hobo life during the Great Depression.
And although this book was just okay, I've ordered a biography of the author -  The DAMNDEST RADICAL: The Life and World of Ben Reitman, Chicago's Celebrated Social Reformer, Hobo King, and Whorehouse Physician - who sounds interesting as hell.
So modern to believe we live like none before us, but the the things that don't change prove most uncanny & ubiquitous.
I love Bertha for her honesty, I love hitchhiking, wide open spaces and concrete jungles.
Bertha still feels real to me, because I got to feeling her strong living as I read.
Got the urge to ride the rails stronger than ever.
My Uncle Tony used to ride the rails, got shot at by railroad dicks and everything, and I knew some folks in college that tried it, but somehow I missed the train.
This book is a good read. it tells the combined story of multiple different women hobos during the early part of the last century. the stories contained in the book are informational beyond just being a good story. the subjects they mention, such as the hobo camps or the hobo colleges or the specific apartments or tenements, are part of a much larger hobo history of the time. It's also part of a series being published by AK Press with lots of other really good books in it.
Although clearly written from a man's point of view, it is still a frank, revealing view of free women who rode the rails and campaigned either overtly or through their choices for a less repressive society.It should be assigned to every girl at the age of 12; those girls would remember the good and the bad written here (even without the editorial slant that Dr. Reitman feels he must add) and make different choices as a result, and really, what more can a book do for you than that?
Even though I expected Boxcar Bertha to be more of a badass, I admire that she took it upon herself to experience as much as possible for the sake of learning about the human condition. She has pretty much seen it all, even if she hasn't done it. This book was a rare education about Depression-era America with stories and statistics that weren't typically recorded out of "decency".
Awesome historical read of women hoboes during the Great Depression. A great alternative radical history, full of free loving, free-wheeling, free-thinking Wobblies and activists of all stripes whose connection to each other was the rails and a non-mainstream way of being. Found this book quite inspirational, like Angela Davis' auto-biography.
This book was pretty good. It was a little repetitious, but overall interesting. It gives a good idea of what it is like to be a female traveling around the country as a hobo, train-hopper, or as the title states sister of the road.
another classic hobo bio. bertha however is much more than a rail rider. she gets mixed up with the trouble stirring emma G! read more and find out.
A really good read, although obviously cobbled together from the histories of various anarchist women.
3,5
a unique and true story. an effortless read for a nice spring open road.
Um, this book made me really want to be a hobo for about a week.
A lifelong favorite
Good for the project I'm working on. Otherwise I had some issues.
i was very excited about reading a book about the experiences of a female hobo... until i found out it is fiction, written by a male writer. but still it was interesting, badly written though.
