https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28395.Remembrance_of_Things_Past
This is what's known in my business as a "harm reduction" approach: like addiction and religious conversion, hardcore Proust reading will suck up your time, alter your character, transform your life, and cause all your friends to hate you.
More time to read!Fine, okay: so why do I love this book so much?I remember there was a certain point in my development as a little person when I realized that magic just did not exist.
I just know that I love it, and that I cannot stop reading these things, despite their deleterious effects on my personal life.
It begins with the famous (and almost insurmountable) sequence in which the narrator tries to go to sleep and moves on to present its narrator's childhood: ill, neurasthenic, abnormally obsessed with his mother; and also the family's insular life, which is enlivened by the visits of a neighbor named Swann, who lives most of his life in Paris--quite glamorously, it seems--and who has married a woman the narrator's parents "refuse to meet." In the second part of the book, "Swann in Love," we follow Swann's earlier life in Paris, where the most exclusive drawing rooms are open to him, and where he pursues and eventually marries a high-class whore named Odette.
The narrative now involves details of the life of Marcel’s family, including the cook Francoise who has been with the family for years, her new friend Jupien, and the daily life with its fascination with its elegant neighbors.
He is all too ready to infer a tendency to Lesbianism in his lovers, Albertine in particular, that then poisons his relationships with them.In this book Marcel also dwells at length on the death of his grandmother the previous year, experiencing a reprise of his grief with greater insight into his relationship with her and into her life and character generally.
currently reading... the second 1000 pages goes a lot quicker than the first.if you want a complete experience reading the proust, its actually necessary to read the last volume first, otherwise you really have no idea what to be following in the first 1000 pages
Rispetto al volume precedente qui Proust è molto meno intimo. Feste, serate, società, personaggi che si intrecciano. Rimane che il tema che mi ha colpito di più è quello del rapporto con la nonna. Si ammala, muore, poi lo strazio del nipote che sembra comprendere troppo tardi di aver perso una persona fondamentale nella sua vita. (Ma quanto è imbarazzante votare Proust a colpi di stelline? Si starà rivoltando nella tomba?)
this became more of a chore than the first two volumes. but proust's dissection/destruction of the salon is so absolute -- and the closing scenes with swann, le duc et m. charlus so devastating - that i'll be going on to book 4 after a brief pause.
the opening to Cities of the Plain is perhaps my favorite prose piece ever written.
However it did get the French of the day all fired up and familiarizing yourself, while not essential (I made it most of the way through before getting a chance to read over the details), will go a long way toward giving some scenes a bit of extra context, mostly because everyone brings it up a lot."Cities of the Plain" winds up being probably the best volume so far, even if oftentimes people do things that don't make a whole lot of sense.
Contrastando com o precedente "O Caminho de Guermantes", o quarto volume do Em Busca do Tempo Perdido extravasa em dinâmica.Em "Sodoma e Gomorra", o lirismo, ainda presente, fica eclipsado pelos reveses em que o Tempo lança os personagens. Proust chega a quebrar a quarta parede e, em determinado momento, pede licença ao leitor para que se interrompa uma deliciosa divagação para prosseguir com a narrativa.Da Etimologia dos nomes das cidades normandas, passando pelo Esnobismo dos nobres e burgueses, tudo inundado pelo que ele chama de "inversão sexual", acredito que esse seja o pilar mais colorido da catedral proustiana.Inesquecível.
(The title of this part also balances that of the first one, in that the two walks taken by the family in the narrator's childhood would either follow Swann's Way, past his house, or the Guermantes' way, past one of their estates.)The society setting makes it easier to see in translation an aspect of Proust which is there in the original (apparently) - the humour.
And that is, in the end, the main theme of The Guermantes Way - it is an exposé of the superficiality and shallowness of society.Cities of the PlainThe fourth volume of Remembrance of Things Past introduces homosexuality as a major theme for the first time.
I have always understood what Proust meant about that flood of memories a sensory experience from our past can trigger in us - that sweeping involuntary memory that virtually obliterates the passing of time.
I felt as though I was a ghostly apparition at the actual events recorded in the diary because I could often call to mind at least some little wisp of a memory and at the same time, I maintained a vague sense of writing about those events too - sitting at the desk in my girlhood room, desk lamp on, younger sister asleep in her bed - while also existing in the present as the mature woman reading.
"'As for all the little people who call themselves Marquis de Cambremerde or de Vatefairefiche, there is no difference between them and the humblest private in your regiment.
Whether you go and do wee-wee at the Countess Caca's or caca at the Baroness Wee-wee's, it's exactly the same, you will have compromised your reputation and have used a fetid rag instead of toilet paper.
Here there are similar brilliant insights into our human psychology as the first Volume, but Proust, in Volume II, travels quite a bit more into Balzac's wheelhouse in his descriptions of society...
I only wish Proust had sprinkled in a bit more humor...
as his humor is...
If you have not yet read Proust, please put aside whatever else you might be reading.
Better yet, get rid of it.
There is hardly a point.
Literature, life, art, love, yearning, the mind, brothels, dinners, celebrities, fashion, aesthetics, cookies, insomnia, the beach, France, mothers, the theater, obsession, flowers, and memory, to name just a few, are perfectly captured here.
Writing before Proust is little but a long prologue; after him, side notes.
Also, if you're curious about Proust, please refrain from reading any other translation; the newer editions might be nicely packaged, but the Moncrieff-Kilmartin remains the Golden Standard and is far superior to the wobbly attempts of the more recent volumes.
I put Proust down for a couple years but now I am back, baby, ready to finish it all by the time I turn 30 hopefully.
My best comparisons for reading Proust are A: long distance running and B: searching through a really huge thrift store.
It's going to be long and grueling, but it will be unforgettable, you'll be a healthier person, and you'll be glad you did it in the end.
And, you'll have to paw through a lot of stuff you don't need but by the end, you'll have an armful of the best vintage material you can find.
Yes, verily, over the course of 27 years, my husband and I did promenade through all three massive volumes of this First Vintage Books Edition.
Our habit was to sit together in the evening, usually for fifteen minutes around 10pm, one of us reading aloud to the other.
Finishing the last page left me with mixed feelings: a sense of triumph at our completed marathon, admiration for Proust whose sweeping arc of narrative came to an eloquent close, and sadness that our journey through his pages had reached its end.
So, my husband and I are going to start over, re-reading this same masterpiece, but this time a different edition with a different translator.
Il secondo volume della Recherche è forse un po' più ostico del primo a causa delle lunghissime descrizioni di vita mondana.
L'inizio di Sodoma e Gomorra, comunque, dove viene narrato il rapporto tra Charlus e Julien è una delle pagine più belle che abbia mai letto in un libro.
E pure il capitolo finale, Le intermittenze del cuore, con il narratore che si rende finalmente conto che la nonna è morta davvero, per poi scordarsene quasi subito, è tanta roba.
Confermo le impressioni che avevo avuto col primo volume: Proust scrive roba VERA, roba che la leggi e dici cacchio, ma è proprio così.
Unbelievable... I actually reached the ending. I wasn't entirely sure there was an ending. I thought maybe pages quietly added themselves, possibly from the front of the book to the back, while I slept every knight.-----I think everyone should read Proust's first volume; it's one of the loveliest things I've ever embarked on. After that is purely elective, although I love what I've gotten through, thus far.This book is not a fast read. ... However, I've properly picked it up again, and I can see the light at the end of the tunnel... so I'm going for it!
It took me a year to read all three of the books of "Remembrance of Things Past." I limited myself to reading ten pages a day, which is the only way one can read Proust and remain interested. Some of the most beautiful writing I've ever read was in these books, and also some of the most boring. On the whole, I gave the books five stars because the beauty outweighed the boredom enormously.
Marcel has returned to Balbec, actually Cabourg, my favorite setting in this series. There are more salons, the Verdurins transplanted from Paris for the summer season and all the characters that attend, some old and some new. Marcel is still conflicted about his love life and the book ends with a surprise. I'm just elated to be more than half way finished with this quest~
Re Guermantes Way: Fascinating. Odd, both book and style and narrator. Can't wait for the next one.Re Cities of the Plain: Yet odder. Must have been scandalous at the time, although the understated tone underplays the scandal. But the idea of the narrator getting married is truly shocking.
A hard slog through 3500 pages in all 3 volumes - I set aside a summer when not working to get through them. Some sentences are more that a page long. Patience required. The story of Albertine, that threads through several volumes, is one of the most interesting parts of the opus.
This volume includes the two books from Proust's novel that bridges the narrator's innocence as a young boy and the realization that a darker reality often lies behind our experiences.
The 7 volume series was a required reading in college. It took me back to my whirl wind of reading prior to HS and all the book I got into.I would recommend everyone read the entire collection.
More from the Master. A long time since I read this, but it must be the one with the reflection of the sea in the panes of glass in the bookcase...
Add to that a weird and ever-present obsession with gay or lesbian sex that occupies much of the book in a very scolding and un-progressive way and you have all the makings of a deeply unpleasant reading experience.
Did I mention that this volume is around 1200 pages long and there are frequently no paragraph breaks at all for many pages on end?It tells me plenty that at the end of reading around 2000 pages of this book (when you include the first volume as well) I can barely even remember the names of the characters and definitely do not care at all about a single one of them.
Beautifully written dense prose capturing the social and political mores of the pre first world war era France. This doesn't begin to describe how good it is but I doubt I could add to what's been said about this body of work over the century or so since it was written.
Okay, this is to mark making it through "The Germantes Way," now slowly into Cities of the Plain. I can't say that I find reading Proust as enthralling as some who have showered these books with 5 stars and it is not the type of read that I "can't put down." I am fascinated by the extreme detail, of the youth growing up with all the feelings and infatuations and fantasies that the narrator has. It is a portrait of a society, seen through the eyes of one individual that appears incredibly shallow and status conscious.
The Guermantes Way -- Read 4 Oct to 5 Dec, 2002Cities on the Plain -- Read 17 Dec to 13 Feb, 2003I sometimes tell people that the first three books are prologue and it really begins around book 4. A technique that he uses is that of repeating the same story over and over, except that he changes one or two things in between each telling and therefor makes it a completely different story the second time. I was utterly in awe throughout most of Cities on the Plain, and still am.
The rule among the human race—a rule that naturally admits of exceptions—is that the reputedly hard are the weak whom nobody wanted, and that the strong, caring little whether they are wanted or not, have alone the gentleness which the vulgar herd mistakes for weakness.” 1080
the full set took me 6 months to read, and it was decent. i have heard of people reading the set multiple times. i will not be spending any additional time reading or discussing this group of books.
