https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76744.Star_Trek_1
Space... The Final Frontier... I am aware that this is a quite longer review than usual, but since it's an anthology, I thought that it was the only fair way to express my thoughts on each story collected on the book. A FASCINATING PROJECT This is the first novelization published featuring episodes from Star Trek: The Original Series. Oddly enough, the novelization didn't published the episodes in the aired order, so if you are looking for the adaptation of Where No Man has Gone Before, the fir
My ratings were based on my reading experience of the novelizations, and NOT about my opinion about the original aired TV episodes.Charlie's Law (aired under the title of "Charlie X") Rating: 2 starsThe Enterprise has the mission to transport the lone survivor, of a crashed ship many years ago, in the planet Thasus, which is a teenage boy named Charlie Evans.
Though these are shortened versions of the episodes, they still made for entertaining reading.
Maybe they're unimportant, I don't know.I have no problem with either "Charlie's Law" or "Dagger of the mind", except that the first one got rid of the duet-scene (but I get it, I don't even know how it would be like on paper), and "Dagger" felt really stiff and awkward at times.It annoyed me how Crater's name in "Unreal McCoy" was changed, for whatever reason into Bierce, it was distracting as hell.
I kept thinking "what the fuck, Spock."In conclusion, sometimes I really loved what I was reading (Miri), sometimes I just thought "what." (The Naked Time)Don't get me wrong though.
I've now read every book Blish published.Really not much different from the other ten volumes of adaptations Blish did (don't ask how I ended up reading the first one last - I don't know myself) except for the lack of a foreword.
It was the release of this volume that created a deluge of fan mail that Blish would address in his forewords to subsequent volumes.As usual the quality varies with the quality of the adapted original script.
Interesting to note that the iconic image of Sulu brandishing a fencing foil has him wearing an undershirt here- he's famously bare chested in the episode.
This anthology of several early Star Trek episodes, like many anthologies, is a hit and a miss. Some of the stories really captured the feel of the story and the characters, while others really missed that mark.
✭“Charlie’s Law” (alternate title: “Charlie X”), James Blish, D. C. Fontana (Teleplay Author), & Gene Roddenberry (Story Author). ✭✭“Dagger of the Mind”, James Blish & Shimon Wincelberg (as by S. Bar-David) (Teleplay Author). ✭“The Unreal McCoy” (alternate title: “The Man Trap”), James Blish & George Clayton Johnson (Teleplay Author). ✭“Balance of Terror”, James Blish & Paul Schneider (Teleplay Author). ✭“The Naked Time”, James Blish & John D. F. Black (Teleplay Author). “Mir
✭“Charlie’s Law” (alternate title: “Charlie X”), James Blish, D. C. Fontana (Teleplay Author), & Gene Roddenberry (Story Author). ✭✭“Dagger of the Mind”, James Blish & Shimon Wincelberg (as by S. Bar-David) (Teleplay Author). ✭½“The Unreal McCoy” (alternate title: “The Man Trap”), James Blish & George Clayton Johnson (Teleplay Author). ✭“Balance of Terror”, James Blish & Paul Schneider (Teleplay Author). ✭½“The Naked Time”, James Blish & John D. F. Black (Teleplay Author). ½“Miri”, James Blish & Adrian Spies (Teleplay Author). ✭“The Conscience of the King”, James Blish & Barry Trivers (Teleplay Author). ½All stories published 1967.
And I thought this would be the perfect time to start reading the original Star Trek episode novelisations, which I've never read before.This book contained 7 episode novelisations; Charlie's Law, Dagger of the Mind, The Unreal McCoy, Balance of Terror, The Naked Time, Miri, The Conscience of the King.
All of them reworked from the original scripts into short stories, by James Blish.I was glad to read the novelised versions of the episodes, as I don't always follow episodes very well when I don't have subtitles to help, and I thought it would be great to clear up the bits I couldn't understand.
"The Man Trap"), "Balance of Terror", "The Naked Time", "Miri", and "The Conscience of the King"This book, clocking in at 140ish pages, doesn’t much page count to the seven episodes it covers.
There are a few things about the book that make in an interesting read as a star trek fan, but its brevity and extremely shallow treatment of the episodes mean I can’t really recommend going out of your way to pick it up.
Short story adaptions from TOS first season.
I had seen all these episodes a million times, so I was interested in how Blish would execute a short story adaption from the original scripts.
I was impressed by Blish's ability to capture the zeitgeist of a familiar TOS episode yet make it distinct from how it was shot on camera.
I have been listening to the The Greatest Generation podcast of the TNG series and it has sensitized me the production costs of special effects for an underfunded television show and how that translates into adapting the script into film.
I don't know if rereading books from one's youth counts as a second childhood, but I'm having one right now ...
revisiting a lot of old favorites, including the James Blish Star Trek "novelizations," although Short-Storyizations would be closer to the truth.
Each Original Series episode is compacted down to short-story length, and something gets lost in translation.
The stories are close to the episodes, but don't match exactly ...
I can tell that Blish wasn't given final shooting scripts to work with, may even have been give only the story treatments?
I'm sure some Star Trek fan site explains it all, if I cared enough to look.
These stories are based on the tv series, though sometimes have been changed a bit. They are a fast read, not delving into much detail. Actually, I almost think some of the stories are better read as stories than a ST episode.Enjoyable and I am ready to start the next one!
Star Trek... expanded my horizons into science fiction.
One of the interesting things about Blish's versions of the stories is that they are based on earlier drafts of the scripts than the broadcast episodes, so the reader often gets an insider's view of decisions made by the production team.
Also, in my case this was often the first time I'd come across the stories, and in one case I only saw the TV version in 2016.Blish was vilified by certain sections of the SF community for writing these, since many people had nothing but contempt for TV and movie sci-fi.
People seem to catch on to what he's doing sooner (something that bothered me a great deal in the show) and the ending scene between Charlie and Kirk is very good.
All in all, I liked this much better than how the script turned out.Dagger of the MindAhh, one of my favorite episodes of all time.
I actually liked that part of the write up better than the episode.
They are well written, good little short stories that both remind you of the episodes and are different enough to make you take a new and intriguing look an old friend.
The first of eleven novelizations of almost all the classic Star Trek episodes.
To avoid writing novellas, James Blish chose to focus on the main plot from the protagonist viewpoint.
In cases like Miri this works well as we are not distracted by all those tortuous "Grup" scenes with children playing petty dictators.
In addition, the novelizations were often based on draft manuscripts and screenplays rather than final versions.
The work is hit or miss but it started the ball rolling on an entire field of syfy - the literature of Star Trek.
I can across this old paperback in a pile of books that was being thrown out and had an enjoyable trip back to the 1960's when as a child I watched the TV show religiously every week. The stories here are uneven, but Blish does manage to capture very well the personalities of the Enterprise's crew as portrayed on the original TV series, at least as far as I remember them. The stories may not be great sci fi but when read today they're awash in nostalgia.
Enjoyable collection of short stories, each of which covers one of seven episodes from the original Star Trek. The stories themselves are relatively superficial but they're still fun to read, especially if you can picture the episode as you're reading. Of the seven stories here, it's "Miri" that stands out the most, being both creepy and McCoy-heavy, both of which are things I enjoy.
Fans of the original series can get the entire collection of scripts as novelletizations (not sure if that’s a real word, but you know what I mean). They are a bit short and might have been stretched out a bit. And the text is more workmanlike than a labor of love. But it's great to be able to read the original series like this.
I'm "binge-watching" TOS by reading these adaptations on my phone; the visuals/effects of the actual show take me out of it and I find it too daunting to have to watch so many episodes like that. This is also more accessible for me. I'll go back and watch the more acclaimed ones, as well as the Mudd episodes which are not included in any of these 12 volumes.
I enjoyed this. I liked reading it and trying to remember the episode (I haven't seen them in a while). the only story I didn't really like was the last one.
a condensed collection of Star trek episodes. these were different from the actual televised versions as Blish was given early versions of the story. it was interesting to see the changes made.
Ganz nett
I enjoyed reading these adaptations by James Blish not because they are necessarily the greatest science fiction.
I relish any opportunity to escape my mundane life and enter through my imagination into that wonderful universe for a while.A couple of items in closing –As other reviewers have pointed out, some of these adaptations differ from the actual episodes, most of the time only in small ways but in a few cases by quite a bit.
In fact, many times I think details dilute what I feel is the main point of reading fiction – exercising the imagination to see and hear a story in your own way.
This review also appears on my blog.I've read a good number of Star Trek books, over the years. Since I came rather late to the Star Trek universe, I'm quite used to thinking of the expanded universe as a sprawling thing, composed of many books by a similarly vast number of authors. Of course, it wasn't always this way. Once, there were no Star Trek books at all.And then, there was one: Star Trek by James Blish.[rel://files/Star Trek by James Blish.jpg] Star Trek  is a collection of seven short
They serve well enough as summaries of the episodes, but they're not particularly engaging, and I don't think they give enough detail for readers who haven't already seen the episodes.The stories are inferior to the television episodes, too, in those cases where the acting is particularly noteworthy: Morgan Woodward's performance as Simon van Gelder in "Dagger of the Mind" and Arnold Moss's performance as Karidian in "The Conscience of the King" brought the characters to life in a way the lifeless dialogue in the short stories cannot match.The book does have one good point, however: the adaptation of "Balance of Terror" is substantially better than the other stories.
“Star Trek 1” by James Blish was the first Star Trek novel ever released and is a collection of Original Series scripts adapted into short story form rather than being an original piece of work.
Some of the stories are enhanced and some are weakened by the adaptations but they were all readable in their own way and still highlight the fun of the Star Trek series.
On a personal point, one thing this collection did highlight to me is how much the actors themselves really helped develop and enhance both the character interactions and stories.
In celebration of the 50th anniversary of Star Trek I took a break from my current read to read this anthology of short stories which were adapted from the TOS.
(Note: after checking Goodreads I see Spock Must Die was published in 1970, so this is the first book, but if that book is not based upon a TV episode it might count as the first original work of Trek fiction…)Anyway, this was an interesting little read.
Composed of all short stories, each chapter of about 20 or so pages is essentially an episode of TOS.
This volume includes novelizations of 7 episodes from the original series: "Charlie X" (under the name "Charlie's Law" in the book); "Dagger of the Mind"; "The Man Trap" (under the name "The Unreal McCoy"); "Balance of Terror"; "The Naked Time"; "Miri" and "The Conscience of the King".
Although they follow the episodes quite closely there are plenty of differences to be found here, these novelizations were based on the early scripts and not on the televised episodes, seeing as Blish was working in the UK where they had not come out at the time.
Having DAYS earlier SEEN the episodes in question on DVD, I'm incapable of being as impressed.It doesn't seem as collaborative as James Blish claims in the introduction: with very small modifications these ARE the scripts in question, only trimmed extensively, and the modifications sometimes sound dismissive of the original work rather than helpful or supplementary.
In my mind, the sound 'Romulan' is just as likely to come from a humanoid mouth as 'Rihannsu' (not Blish's invention, but it comes up later from the same place.
Also of interest is that everyone in this story seems to dislike Spock, even Kirk.- Miri - The science in this story is much better than in the episode, and the planet they land on is not an "exact duplicate of Earth" but rather an alien planet settled long ago by Earth colonists.
I like this idea much better, especially since the "exact duplicate of Earth" is inexplicably dismissed by the crew in the television version.
And it's the FIRST of many Star Trek books, so that's something.
The James Blish "Star Trek" series is a twelve book series of adaptations of the stories from the original "Star Trek" television series.
The stories in this book were some of the best episodes in the series, but Blish never did see an episode, so far as I know; he was given preliminary scripts to work from, had very little if any feel for the characters as portrayed onscreen, and there were frequently changes that were made during filming that he never got to incorporate into his adaptations.
But the book falls far short of living up to what we saw onscreen.
