https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278265.Let_Sleeping_Vets_Lie
Working with animals can be such a rewarding job as James knows, but this comes with working long hours at any time of the day or night.
Let Sleeping Vets Lie is the third book in the All Creatures Great and Small series and what a delightful, fun and heartwarming book this is.Any book that, can have you laughing out loud and then crying has got to be a book well worth reading in my opinion.
Looking forward to reading the next book in this wonderful series.
Needed something light and cheerful to put me to sleep & started this last night...thankfully no nightmares followed - although I did have to read a bit further than when my eyes began to droop - the image of a sheep giving birth wasn't the right place to end the night.
I watched the series many years ago and was addicted to Tristram and James and the old vet guy,Seigfreid.
The Yorkshire farmers accents make for some hilarious situations and I think animal lovers and aspiring vets will find the 1939 veterinary styles of medicine much different to today.
(Most antibiotics were not invented then so many old fashioned remedies were used and (((often))) worked.)
Let Sleeping Vets Lie is a fantastic collation of short stories from a series of books by James Herriot. James Herriot was an English vetinary surgeon and writer who unfortunately died in 1995. In this book Herriot speaks of his time in Darrowby and his experience working as a vet during the time. He tells many heart warming stories of miracles he observed and made possible and tragedies he couldnt reverse.
I took a long time reading this book, one by James Herriot I'd never read. I've read all the others and a long time ago, but needed something sweet and gentle from the past to offer some respite from today's news. This fit my wishes beautifully, stories by Herriot about his early days as a vet and the days of courtship with his future wife, Helen. If you need a bit of a pick me up, this is one that will help.
Another richly-satisfying read from James Herriot. My husband bought me the box-set for Christmas and he's had to put up with loud laughter (and the odd sob) coming from my side of the bed as he ploughs through our son's book-gift to him: a vast tome by Larry McMurtry! He's a very tolerant man!
Loved all the James Herriot books.
My parents began to read them when I was maybe 10 or so and they would laugh out loud but I was far too cool to read what my parents did until one day I had a miserable toothache/earache and to take my mind off it I began to read one of this series of books.
I too ended up laughing and simply being transported away to a different time, yet with places that seemed comfortingly familiar.
(I'm from Yorkshire originally and was living there at this time.) I wrote my first ever fan letter to anyone, to James Herriot, and he replied!
I also loved how he began to write the books kind of from a dare from his wife!
Being a young vet myself, James Herriots books have been an amazing companion when I feel overwhelmed by my work.
Set in a small, Yorkshire village in the 1930'ies, mr.
Herriot writes about the ups and downs about his work and introduces us to the wonderful people in his area.
I have lauged out loud, cried a little and always been well entertained when reading his books.
Do not read them, if you want exhilarating murder stories, but if you need to smile and be happy about the wonderful world we live in with so many different creatures, do give it a try
Great, great, great. As always. The only thing is, I have been reading his series one after another, gobbling them up like a pig in a swimming pool of scraps, and they are all merging into one. The monk chapter is unrivalled in the comedy factor by any other books I've ever read, ever. It's hard to believe these characters were in fact real people! I wonder if everyone knew a Tristan or a Siegfried equivalent in the thirties... And now, eagerly onto the next Herriot book; expectations are high.
Laughed out loud throughout most of it. Great read.
James Herriot's books are so 'laugh out loud' funny. I keep rereading his books most of the time. The humor never seems to grow old. His experiences among the down to earth farmers, his achievements and failures have been written down in such an open and honest manner that you cannot help but love his books.
I can't even begin to describe how much work I have on today; however, instead of starting anything 'proper' at 8am sharp, I chose to finish this little gem instead. No regrets! I read this mostly smiling through a veil of tears -that's how good he is!
I love this series of books about a country vet back in the 1930's. Entertaining, funny, informative.
Rereading and enjoying again this very gentle write up of a country vet's experiences in a time now long past.
This is such a feel-good read. I smiled, loughed and shed tears. :D
A selection of stories drawn from the main James Herriot books.
The third book in James Herriot's wonderful series about life as a country vet. In this book we see his courtship and marriage to his wife Helen.
Loved this book. James Herriot (Alf Wright) should be an inspiration to us all!
26 incidents/anecdotes in the life of a vet. Funny yet a insightful book on the life of a vet.
Delving into the semi-fictional world of vets practicing in Darrowby (based on the town of Thirsk) is as comforting as snuggling on the sofa under a fluffy blanket whilst sipping on a mug of hot chocolate.James Herriot (James Alfred "Alf" Wight) may have been a wonderful vet but he was also a very gifted writer.
He weaves his real life experiences into delightful stories about the people and animals of the beautiful Yorkshire Dales.
He does a wonderful job with all of the various characters voices, bringing the whimsy and humour to life with obvious relish and affection.

I'm still laughing about some of the stories in this one. Particularly the visit to the Bamford farm after being introduced to the delights of Mr Crump's home-made wines—the entire description of trying to get a bucket of water, soap and a towel, followed by the attempts to actually wash had me in hysterics. And then there was the Raynes ghost. I actually had to stop reading at one point so my eyes could stop streaming, I was laughing so hard. Sheer brilliance.
Book 2 in the series, or at least, of the series part I have wasn't as easy to read as the previous book, but it certainly didn't bore me either. It gave me a few hours of down-time during and after university, what with deadlines looming, but it wasn't the best read of the past year in my opinion by any means.
What a surprise! I used to see this book on my grandfather's bookshelf and assumed it must be old and boring. Then I saw it on my husband's bookshelf and figured it was worth a read. Such good writing--great little vignettes and really good humor. Very sweet and touching, too. I look forward to the rest of his books.
"Letting the cat out of the bag..."The hilarious revelations of James Herriot, the now famous vet in the Yorkshire Dales, continue his happy story of everyday trials and tribulations with unwilling animal patients and their richly diverse owners."~~back coverMore charming, grueling, funny and tragic tales about 1930s farming life in the Yorkshire Dales, as seen from the eyes of a vet.
This was a thoroughly enjoyable nighttime book; great for a week with insomnia. The stories are sweet and I suspect acutely nostalgic for some. I first read Herriot when I was in high school, and some of these chapters I'd forgotten everything - re-reading them, I laughed out loud a couple of times. It's pretty formulaic; diverting and charming enough for a plane trip or a late night.
Funny and heartwarming stories about a rural vet that nothing I could say here would give you the remotest flavour of how wonderful and real these stories are so ignore everything I say and just go out an buy them and fall in love. Having said that, I wonder if I like them because I'm from the same part of the world and can identify with the characters and their exploits? Oh, the horror!
Gentle, nostalgic, sentimentalised and clumsily written. Helps keep the myth of Yorkshire as "God's County" alive: at least it did when it was still selling. I don't think many are reading James Herriot these days. I am. And I'm enjoying them despite their faults.
An enjoyable read. I remember seeing the British Tv series based on these stories years ago. Well written and entertaining stories about a young vet named James Herriot who joins a practice owned by Siegfried Farnham.
Some times you just need a book as warm and comfortable as a sofa in front of a log fire. This book is certainly that and much more. Perhaps a little cliched but poignant and harsh as well. This is one of those books which won't change your world but you won't regret a moment of reading it.
Bedtime stories.
