https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46654.The_Foundation_Trilogy
Love...is...Forever...   CHAPTER ONE  The Foundation Trilogy By Isaac AsimovINTRODUCTION:In my life, there have been three science fiction books/series that will always hold special shelf space in my heart’s library. The first, and the subject of this review, is The Foundation Trilogy by Isaac Asimov. Yet, before I begin my history with this extraordinary story, let me briefly mention my other two great loves. A. Dune:The second of these pivotal SF relationships was with Dune, who I first met wh
By Isaac AsimovINTRODUCTION:In my life, there have been three science fiction books/series that will always hold special shelf space in my heart’s library.
I have never read better and it is the book against which all other science fiction experiences are judged.C. Foundation Trilogy:Finally, we get to my very first SF love: The Foundation Trilogy.
This series is such an amazing way to be introduced to the science fiction genre.
However, this practice in no way diminishes my love for science fiction.
What Science Fiction and I have is very special and I’ll thank you not to point your judgments in our direction.
At the dawn of American dominance, Asimov as a fiction writer was inspired to write about decline and fall, rather like Edward Gibbon turned his attention to the end of Rome no sooner had victory in the Seven Years War set the seal on British ascendancy, but with science-fiction as his medium.Asimov was fond of locked door murder mysteries and this technique of creating a seemingly impossible situation and resolving it cleverly is one that he used in the Foundation series.
Super scientist Harri Seldon using his magic powers mcguffin technique of psychohistory realises that the Galactic Empire in which he lives is going to decline and collapse into a horrible galactic dark age in the very near future.
Such are the fortunes of a genre built on the challenge of looking forward: when the future actually arrives, even its greatest masterpieces are left looking like the relics of a hopelessly distant past.The Foundation Trilogy is not the greatest multi-novel series to emerge from modern science fiction.
In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, we've come to understand that even closed systems are fundamentally unpredictable over any considerable length of time; in Asimov's time, there was still faith that science could predict the future of a galaxy-spanning empire over the course of thousands of years.
Volver a leer la trilogía de la Fundación 15 años después y esta vez del tirón (un tirón que me ha llevado 6 meses), me ha permitido entender mejor la idea general que planteó Asimov.
Pero a pesar de los fallos me he vuelto a sumergir durante casi mil páginas en las mismas sensaciones que tuve de pequeño y me he asombrado aún más del enorme proyecto en que se metió Asimov.Podrá gustarte más o menos su estilo pero es uno de los trabajos indispensables de la Ciencia Ficción del último siglo.
Les presento la mejor novela que he leído hasta ahora, una trilogía, en concreto, con la que se inicia el Universo Asimov, una colección de 16 libros de ciencia ficción que desde luego forman parte de los clásicos de la literatura Universal.Un estilo narrativo excelente, tramas originales e inteligentes, personajes atractivos y un libro muy adictivo, que engancha.
Pero por encima de todo hay algo que hace que este libro sea especial, tiene un mensaje, y es un mensaje sobre el valor de la ciencia.Les dejo una reseña completa en mi vlog de física, sin spoilers, para el que quiera profundizar un poco más:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Br3Hv...Yo creo que es de esos libros que todo el mundo debería leer, de los que incitan a que seamos mejores ciudadanos.
In The Foundation Trilogy, comprised of Foundation (Book 1), Foundation and Empire (Book 2), and Second Foundation (Book 3), you’ll quickly find yourself in front of an author whose grasp on science-fiction is beyond belief.
Of all three books, Foundation will undoubtedly go down as my favourite of the trilogy because of not only how magnificent and grandiose the ideas were, but because Isaac Asimov manages to fit what seemed like a gargatuan amount of content into just 250 pages.
While the trilogy remains the three most important books of the series and must-reads for any science-fiction fan, Isaac Asimov expands the universe with sequels and prequels, as well as separate short stories for starving devotees.
He is concocting a story which will encompass 25 Million inhabited worlds and will involve time-lines which play out over tens of thousands of years, involving sciences which will stretch your powers of comprehension.
The first book is a whirlwind of ideas and descriptions of a gigantic and futuristic human empire of the distant future.Foundation And Empire (1952): Perhaps not so great as 'Foundation', this book is written in two main parts, the first of which was gigantic, epic science-fiction that I was hoping for.
(It is surprising however, that Asimov has avoided the inclusion of any extra-terrestrial life-forms in the books, which to me makes me think: that either they were irrelevant and thus intentionally not included, or perhaps they have been kept away from the brinks of the Galaxy in the Foundation Universe only to may be include them in the later books of the series.) :P(view spoiler)[Spanning about 400 years of history during the Foundation Era,  Foundation (book one) deals with the organised establishment of its colony and on how it prevents itself from destruction.
Non dico niente che non abbia già detto su questo libro. Leggete Asimov e capirete.
This is bad science fiction in every sense of the word, overly descriptive of irrelevant details, filled soulless characters all with the same emotionless analytical voice, events that seem to have no purpose and all take place in a world that's extremely difficult to contextualise and even harder to care about and written with no style or eye for pacing.
I read at least half of the book and I honestly can't tell you what was happening, who any of the characters were or what was at stake.
Great science fiction uses the conceits of the genre to deal with big philosophical and questions and confront socio-political constructs, but it makes the reader care about these issues by putting a relatable character with basic human dilemmas at the centre.
I can see why it's so influential, mostly because I've read and seen the books and movies and television shows that have been influenced by it (I'm mostly talking about The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and Futurama, but there are countless others).
And there are times, when he moves away from the archetypical science fiction hero who is right and doesn't really have any sort of interesting journey to characters who learn and grow and change, that he really succeeds.
Mi pento di aver nutrito tanti pregiudizi verso lo stesso, in passato, ma abbiate pietà: la filmografia fantascientifica esula dal correlato genere lettererario, fatta eccezione per qualche pellicola.Dunque, sfatato il mito della fantascienza tutta  umanoidi-e-razzi-orbitanti-ultrametallicamente-moderni  posso dire di aver ampliato il mio portfolio di letture in maniera più che soddisfacente, e di voler continuare in questa direzione.
Me ne sono innamorata alla fine, verso le ultime pagine, per motivi che non posso ben delineare, pena lo spoiler su uno degli avvenimenti più travolgenti e intriganti del libro [personalmente, dell'intera trilogia].
Ok, let's begin with the fact that I tackled this trilogy when I was 12. I'm sure that, were I to pick it up once more, my appreciation would grow exponentially... HOWEVER, as wonderful as Asimov is, he writes like an engineer. He's careful and methodical, and the plot that weaves through the Foundation series is unbelievably complex. If you've got the time, and you enjoy Sci-fi, go ahead and pick up Prelude and follow Hari's awesome adventure.
La verdad es que es un libro bastante extenso (900 páginas de nada) y hay que empezarlo con ganas porque de lo contrario es muy posible que dejes la historia.
Lo que sí os digo es que el osado lector que se atreva con el tocho de libro no desmerecerá su esfuerzo ya que, a medida que avanzas en la trama, te vas enganchando y solo deseas saber cómo acaba la historia.
En cuanto al autor, lo considero un genio, solo hay que ver lo que escribió y cómo lo escribió.
Esta saga es de los años 50 y le da
Ante un futuro descorazonador se decide crear una Fundación que proteja para la posteridad el conocimiento desarrollado por la humanidad durante millones de años.
Esta es la causa, el motivo de toda la historia pero, al ir avanzando descubres otra realidad, subyacente, y sería la capacidad de controlar mentalmente el avance de miles de millones de personas siguiendo un Plan preestablecido y marcado y solo conocido por una élite que se oculta al resto de la Humanidad para que no se altere dicho Plan.
Una obra que deberían leer los seguidores de la teoría de la Conspiración.Hay mucha información en la red sobre este autor y la saga de la Fundación.
What can I say except THE BEST scifi books. I've read the Foundation books several times and, each time, I felt the same way. I got my son hooked on them too. He read the whole series at the age of 11 and loved them. I recommend it to people of all ages. P.S. I always hoped (and still do) that I will make psychohistory a reality.
In order of internal chronology: * Prelude to Foundation * Forward the Foundation * Foundation * Foundation and Empire * Second Foundation * Foundation’s Edge * Foundation and EarthThis is truly one of SciFi’s classics.
The original trilogy (starting with Foundation) is widely considered to be one of the finest SciFi series ever written.
The rest of the books are of equally high quality, except (in my opinion) for Forward the Foundation, which seems more like an attempt to tie up loose ends, something of an obsession with Asimov towards the end of his career.
3 stars. Sadly this BBC audiobook adaptation of Asimov's classic trilogy suffered from some sound quality issues (variable volume ranging from almost inaudible to too loud; annoying sound effects). It is also much abridged. An acceptable way to recall the books but I wouldn't recommend it as a replacement for reading them (or listening to an unabridged audiobook).
3½ stars. Sadly this BBC audiobook adaptation of Asimov's classic trilogy suffered from some sound quality issues (variable volume ranging from almost inaudible to too loud; annoying sound effects). It is also much abridged. An acceptable way to recall the books but I wouldn't recommend it as a replacement for reading them (or listening to an unabridged audiobook).
Meisterwerk...Mehr gibts dazu nicht zu sagen. Es sei denn, man möchte sich in ellenlangen Schilderungen von geschichtlichen und sozialen Prozessen verlieren. Spannendes Future-Telling, klare Erzählstruktur, jeder Band hatte ein großartiges und zufriedenstellendes Ende. Wer jetzt jedoch die Action gleich einer Star Trek Episode sucht, ist hier falsch.
The first still has the compelling ideas of psychohistory, although less developed than I had remembered, or would have liked.
To Azimov's credit, the character of the Mule was still vivid enough in my memory that the second book lost most of its tension.What I had forgotten was just how virulently misogynist and patriarchal these books are - it is kind of embarrassing given that he came of age when women had been working in factories, serving in war, and holding families together on their own.
All in all, disappointing as a re-read (I changed from 5 stars in my memory to just 3 now).
A great premise and a good read, but I think Asimov makes a wrong turn half-way through the Trilogy.
The first couple of books are good -- the Foundation is faced with huge challenges, the challenges are overcome, and then the holograph of Seldon turns up to tell everyone that it all had to work this way to lead on to Empire.
Fun to read the lessons and then think to the experiences of ancient Rome, etc, and how they relate to Asimov's vision of history.
En el tercer libro (es el que tengo más reciente en la memoria) tan sólo aparecen tres mujeres y en los anteriores creo recordar que son incluso menos.
El personaje que más me ha gustado de todo el libro es Arcady, una niña de 14 años, aunque también me ha gustado mucho Callia.Lectura obligatoria para los amantes del género.
I can understand why Asimov's Foundation Trilogy is one of the building blocks of the genre of Science Fiction as we know it today and I can respect the quality of the material itself.
Asimov has crafted his tale around a scientist who foresees the end the current structure of civilization and devises a plan to accelerate the growth of a new empire and drastically shorten the predicted span of time in which the universe will be thrown into a time of barbarism.
But from a historical aspect it is very interesting to read one of the building blocks of a genre.
No lean estos libros, en general es el clásico cliché de una profecía que tiene que ser cumplida y l
I have to write about this trilogy as a whole instead of each book individually because I think it is imperative to read all three in succession to truly appreciate the depth of Asimov's tale.
I had not read any Asimov books when I picked up 'Foundation' but was unable to put each book down until they were finished.
The only way to preserve the accumulated knowledge of a dying empire rests in the foundation of a new colony on the outskirts of the empire devoted solely to mathematics and science.
Through this seed ultimately the knowledge of the waning empire endures and can be replanted throughout the galaxy.
Fundación: 4/5Fundación e imperio: 4,5/5Segunda Fundación: 5/5Nota final de la Trilogía: 5/5 como una casa de grande. Porque sí, porque lo digo yo y punto. Aunque algunas historias son más flojas que otras (tampoco demasiado), en general la trilogía me ha parecido una auténtica pasada y se merece la nota máxima. Pasa directamente a mi lista de libros favoritos de ciencia ficción y Asimov a la de escritores. Ahora le toca el turno a Los límites de la Fundación... o a cualquier otro libro suyo. Se aceptan sugerencias.
i read foundation in 1970, but i didn't even know the other books in the series existed until i was well into my teens.by today's standards these books might seem weak for science fiction, but they are the Foundation upon which all of today's sf authors fed as youths. asimov was a great story teller.
I don't understand how someone can write something like this, so epic in scope, so much imagination. It's staggering to me.
It's obviously a highly revered, acclaimed novel in the science fiction genre - some say the BEST in the genre - and maybe it was too lofty a goal for my first sci-fi book.On the plus side, I thought Asimov's ideas of what the future might be like were interesting: the study and application of psychohistory (using mathematics to predict how large numbers of people will act, thus being able - in a sense - to predict the future), and the over-development of planets and loss of their resources.On the negative side, I found it difficult to keep the characters straight.
Never will I read a story that makes me prouder to be apart of a species holding a man who can take so much care into creating something for no reason other than pleasure.
An iconic sci-fi trilogy that no sci-fi fans should miss. For anybody who want to get into reading sci-fi novels this trilogy is one of the best starting points.Below are links to my reviews of the individual volumes (I doubt this omnibus edition is still in print):1. Foundation2. Foundation and Empire3. Second FoundationCheers!
