https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142239.Understanding_Exposure
He introduces phrases that he uses again and again so that you, the student, start to fill in the answers before he finishes; he explains tricky technical details through memorable metaphor; he ties theory to his own photography, showing us just where he took his metering, and why.
Halfway through the book you feel like a second semester student filling in all the jokes ahead of time and snapping away happily, picking up the extra details you missed before.
It made me giddy, that feeling, and I had to laugh and give the book a kiss in gratitude when I realized what had happened.
2) It has beautiful photos, with explanations on how each was made.
And stupid attempts at humor or something resembling it: the author doesn't eat donuts, but he does eat bagels and so will sometimes use a ring flash.
Bagels are round and a ring flash is round.
Also, it's interesting how he downplays the importance of light in making photographs.
It comes off as, "Hey, everybody says light is the most important thing in photography.
Aperture and shutter speed control are what makes a great photo.
Light is secondary.
I couldn't put this book down! I read almost all of it in one sitting. I am a very amateur photographer and I learned so much from this book. I learned the value of the manual setting and how to properly use it. I learned from where to meter light. I had no idea there was a problem metering light from black and from white images. I learned many insights into creatively composed images and how to make them. Very informative and well laid out. Easy to understand.
He explains what he calls the 'who cares' aperture settings of f/8 and f/11 and when you do want to use the and why.It really is an excellent book for understanding exposure, which is at the heart of a good photograph.The reason I didn't give it five stars is because there were some things that were glossed over and some things that were not as well explained as I thought they could be.
Mind you, they were mostly minor.For instance, I think he could have explained a little bit about the appropriate lens to use in different situations.
I wanted to improve my skills as an amateur photographer and bought the camera for the zoom and many other options but I was a complete beginner.
I am quite happy using manual mode, aperture, shutterspeed, playing with picture size, white balance to name just a few functions.My daughter also had a new camera for her birthday and although, she is far happy to 'play' with the buttons and experiment, I have been able to pass on knowledge I have learnt through reading Understanding Exposure.
Even if you are a professional photographer, I would say it is well worth reading for reference.
It is written for professionals and amateurs and is very easy to read, understand and put into practice.
I have a small collection of photography books, mostly information-related, and this seemed like a good one to add to the shelves.This is Bryan Peterson's Revised Edition, with the subtitle of "How to Shoot Great Photographs with A Film of Digital Camera." I shot film for many decades, and switched to digital just a few years ago; I was ready for some more tips on how to get the best from my pixelated (maybe pixilated :-)) pictures.The book didn't disappoint.
I also liked that he stressed how to get the picture right when you take it, and not rely on photo-manipulation programs to make corrections.
Most of us beginners know the basics of exposure > how shutter-speed, aperture and ISO can have an effect on the exposure.
But we, as beginners, have little idea about how to get the correct exposure.
This short but rich book covers a lot on exposure, and how to use the various aspects of it to your creative advantage.
The photos included, and the corresponding scenario and the decisions he made at that scenario, let us know what goes through the mind of professional photographer when he takes a shot.A must read for beginners.
Obviously, I should avoid making these prejudicial decisions about my to-read books, as I'm so often proven wrong.Instead, Peterson gives us a series of short, succinct, explanations of the three components of exposure – aperture, shutter-speed and ISO – and the relationships between them; along with plenty of photographic examples.
digital debate, but doesn't think the use of handheld meters worth even discussing.Ultimately, I found the book a little too basic for my needs.
I'm sure it's a brilliant explanation for people for whom the whole aperture/shutter speed/ISO thing hasn't quite clicked, but if it has there's little to pick up here.
I have an expensive camera that I don't know how to use effectively so this book was perfect for me!
I was able to read it in one sitting and was kept interested throughout!
I'm obviously an amateur and I think this book is perfect for amateur's who want to better understand the manual mode of their DSLR.
This book lays it out so effectively!
I now better understand aperture, shutter speed, and white balance!
The author wrote this book in a way that I was able to easily understand things that I could never quite understand!
This is easily the best introductory photography book I've ever read. It was a great refresher for the photography stuff that I've forgotten over the last 15 years, full of concise, easily understood explanations of useful photographic techniques. Some of the writing is corny, and the mnemonic devices get old pretty fast, but I'd still recommend it to anyone who wants to learn the basics of shooting with an SLR.
این کتاب نیز مانند اثر دیگر این نویسنده (دید خلاقانه در عکاسی) برای بخصوص شروع عکاسی یا کسانیکه میخواهند جدی تر به عکاسی نگاه کنند جذاب خواهد بود مطالبی درباره دیافراگم، شاتر ، تراز سفیدی، نورسنجی، حساسیت سنسور و حتی چگونگی عکاسی پنینگ و اچ دی آر در این کتاب جمع آوری شده و نویسنده بخوبی درباره آنها بحث کرده و مطالب خود را با عکسهایی که برای مثال آورده ارزشمندتر کرده است.
Really wonderful read for any beginner to fresh professional. Great tone.
For example, there are countless times when the author references "taking a light meter reading." He doesn't actually say what he means by this until you're 75% of the way through the book.
Manual Mode mania: This is a super nitty-gritty complaint, but the author has a way of phrasing one particular thing that's so essential, he repeats it probably a hundred times in the book.
If you shoot using Aperture or Shutter priority, then every time he utters a phrase like this, it makes no sense, because the camera is automatically choosing a value to get the "right" exposure.5.
This book has a good introduction to the subject and the language is sensible and accessible in the main.Looking at the book in detail it covers the three basics of exposure - shutter speed, aperture & iso - in detail and effectively.
There is good use of sample photographs illustrating different settings with discussion on them.
The book was originally published many years ago when cameras were very different indeed.
The three I've had since then have all had very good performance at high ISOs and the use of higher ISO settings does allow photographers to worry less about tripods which is great for travel.
Peterson clearly explains how the elements of your camera work together to produce different kinds of "creative" exposures, rather than the "correct" exposure you would get if you left it in Auto mode all the time.
I did learn quite a bit from the book, and several things were clarified and I am no longer clueless about Manual mode.However--Peterson himself seems to be an "aperture first" kind of guy.
For him, this works well because he shoots a lot of landscapes, cityscapes, and outdoor things that do not require short shutter speeds.
Most surprisingly, within only the first 30 or 40 pages, I was able to shoot in full manual mode, and compose photographs that, while not prize-winning, were in focus and exposed properly.
The only caveats I would add to this review are these two: the subtitle ("How to Shoot Great Photographs with Any Camera") is misleading.
This book will be of little or no use to you without an SLR or micro 4/3rds camera.
While many of the examples in the book can be applied to indoors and outdoors, the focus is nearly 100% on outdoor shooting.
*I requested from Blogging For Books*Sharpening SkillsI always want to be better at photography and always wanting to sharpen my skills which is what this book has helped. I've picked up some new skills and a lot of things I had questions about and a LOT of things I didn't know. I will going back to review some things over when I forget.
Don't go to the photo course, read this book instead.If you like me had on and off relationships with cameras and want to finally understand better what's going on and how to make the picture you want, that should be good book for you.Though If you already sophisticated in light-meters and exposure-triangles, then it is not your book ;)
Been a while since i read this, but I remember it as being a very clear, enthusiastic and inspiring take on photography. Since exposure is so very crucial to all photography, this book is a much wider-ranging guide to all of photography than one would expect from just the title.
Pretty much a must have for learners. I feel like I know how to use my dSLR a lot better now. Only criticism is that he used some terms without explaining what it meant until 2/3s of the way through the book.
Great for beginner photographers. Very easy to read and understand. If you just got a digital SLR and need some direction, this is the best place to start!
It's weird, sometimes you find yourself scratching your head and wondering why a book gets such good reviews.
And yet, there it is in the title, which should tell you the book might tell you is a little dated.
Don't get me wrong, it explains the concept of exposure (and the relationship between ISO and aperture) well, but I kind of feel any good you tube channel could do the job just as well these days, and the best of those channels have more modern books to support the concepts they are trying to explain.Second it can go on some.
I’ve been an Amateur photographer for well over a decade now and yet before I read this book I knew nothing about using a light meter correctly and nailing exposures without ‘chimping’ all the time .If your like me and are solely self taught with materials like digitalrev on YouTube (back when Kai and loc were doing it!) you will certainly appreciate this book .
Was an absolute pleasure to read too, amazing pictures (at least one on ever page) demonstrating what is being discussed.If your debating it and have never had any photographic training in the past definitely get this book.
A nice introduction to anyone who wants to know more about photography technique basics. Very well laid out, clear explanations mixed with personal experience and illustrated with image examples, and without being excessively technical for the lay reader. Its the perfect book to start shooting a camera in Manual mode, and the perfect starting point to read other more complex books on photography.However, I give it 4 stars, since there are some technical imprecisions throughout the book, i.e. at some point he argues that smaller aperture values, such as f/22.0, do not produce noticeable diffraction, when this is utterly wrong.
Not the type of thing I usually read, but I picked this up because I'm getting back into photography after a long time and felt like refreshing myself on the basics.
Basics.
I didn't care for the guy's writing.
I found his attempts to turn his photos into little stories irritating, when simple metadata would have been sufficient.
Found it especially irritating when he keeps reminding us, "That's my wife!" over and over again.
It's also pretty dated, lingering on a lot of stuff that has been more or less irrelevant by newer camera technology.
Excellent book! Bryan Peterson is a very good teacher and has the ability to teach in such a way that the principles stay with you. This is a very practical book on determining the correct exposure, including the "creatively correct exposure" (for which we are individually responsible for) in photography. Even if one is an experienced photographer, this book will reinforce, and perhaps clarify, principles that are a part of the photography experience.
Aunque algunos conceptos son abordados muy por encima, disfruté mucho el libro y agradezco al autor por explicar su toma de decisiones creativas al tomar cada foto. No creo que al final del libro cualquier lector pase de fotógrafo principiante a intermedio, pero siempre es un muy buen comienzo. Cabe destacar que más que tratar sobre el proceso creativo como tal (como pueden ser otros libros de fotografía) trata más a fondo sobre las diferentes técnicas fotográficas.
Phenomenal photography book, especially for me as a beginner. I love that every example photograph has both camera settings and lays out his thinking behind those settings. I feel much more confident in my ability to create “creatively-correct” exposures (as he terms them). Some of the analogies are not-so perfect (ISO as worker bees collecting water from a faucet?) but they get the point across well enough. 4.5 stars.
Some of the discussion of digital photography was a bit out of date in some ways. However the general photography topics of aperture, ISO, focal length, depth of field, manual exposure techniques, shutter speed (and many other topics) were expertly written and in some cases inspirational. I would recommend this as one of my top 3 books on photography for people who are serious about improving their image making skills.
Written in a very colloquial style which will be helpful to some readers. Each photo has a detailed description of the pre-shutter decision process which is nice. The book is breezy to the point where I'm not sure how actually helpful it will be, and some of the explanations (e.g. matrix metering) veer so far into odd analogies that they totally miss the facts of the matter. Best purchased along with a more detailed text.
