https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1052648.Semper_Fi
5 stars.🇺🇸🌺
Semper Fi is a hard core military thriller that takes you all the way back to 1941 up until the bombing of Pearl Harbor.
You’ll meet all sorts of types in this first book in the series and develop a familiarity of these characters as months go by.
Hard core historical military fiction that takes you through the progress of ranking up, disciplinary actions, and competition inside the Corps and a tid bit of romance as well.
The first in this series is all about the characters, where they come from, why they enlisted, where they end up, and who is a favorite.
W.E.B. Griffin's "The Corps" series are not simply books about war.
The war is a backdrop for vignette's about ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances.
'Killer' McCoy. It is just before America gets involved in WWII and follows through the bombing of Pearl Harbor and the fall of Wake Island (Phillipines).
McCoy is a 'China Marine' or a Marine stationed in Shanghai China where he becomes involved in the military intelligence community.
The stories are about the people, not the war.
Based upon my knowledge of Marine Corps History, I can confidently say the Mr. Griffin's knowledge of all things military is encyclopedic.I highly recommend these books.
I found this 30-year-old pre-Pearl Harbour novel to be just an alright listen. Fortunately, Hall of Famer, Dick Hill narrated, bringing his usual A-game. I didn't find the writing to be inspiring. 4 of 10 stars
The book has received countless four and five star reviews and I thought I would love it.
Toward the very end we get to the bombing of Pearl Harbor and the first actions in Asia, but we don't actually read about any of the events.
The main characters are in and around the action, but what they do there is simply hinted at.With that said, I realize that this book was supposed to be more about the life of a marine during this time period.
I like this author and this series looks to be one of his better ones.
Prior to World War II, Marines were stationed in China while the war between China and Japan. After killing an Italian Marine while defending himself, Corporal McCoy winds up spying on the Japanese while serving as a driver on resupply convoys. He falls for a missionaries wife until he is forced to kill Chinese banits and she snubs him, but he impresses an intellegence officer making an inspection tour of China. Sets the stage for the whole Corps series.
Great author, great story, great writing. W.E.B. Griffin is one of the all time greats in this genre adn fortunately a prolific author without resorting to cookie cutter plots, characters and stories. He moves on to a new type of story once one has run it's course which I really appreciate. His writing and stories stay fresh all the time. I have enjoyed him for years.
My first Griffin read, and I dearly wanted to find his books on at least a four scale, not the 2 to 3 scale where I rate it.
This is just a story about a marine, one with a highly unlikely story to boot.
There is no complexity to the story, no interwoven stories that mesh toward the end, just a step ladder from one part of the main characters life in the Marine.
Opportunities missed by the author.I will continue to read a few more, though I expect they will be the same genre.
This is the first book by Griffin I have read. A very good writer and storyteller. I’ll be reading more from him very soon. Killer McCoy... I saw Matt Damon as I read this novel.

Griffin is an excellent writer when it comes to Historical Fiction.
His books are more character driven than action driven.
These are military men in dangerous situations and occasional bad language comes out their mouths.Like most of his main characters, in the first book the hero bounces from woman to woman until he meets his one true love and becomes a one woman man.The conversations are crisp, they move the story along and there is always a bit of humor.
The background and secondary characters come across as important and not just to be an ''expendable crew man".
Surprisingly enough, though WEB Griffin is a prolific author, with more than 6 major series and 100 books (under a variety of pseudonyms), The Corps series is the only one I ever really got into. The characters somehow got under my skin and I couldn't help but empathize with them when they got into trouble or were in danger of being killed. This was an excellent book and a great introduction to one of my favorite series of all time.
I gave this a 4 only because I love Griffin's explanations of the training, weapons, customs of the Marine Corps and I love WWII books. But most of the characters are rich except the main character and they all fall in love a minute after meeting and go to bed in 2 minutes after meeting.This is a series of 5 books and I'm going to read all five but jump over the sophmoric love interests.
Entertaining and technical read. I say technical, because the amount of detail given to the make and model and rank of every character and gun and vehicle is a bit distracting, although I’m a sucker for things like that. Formulaic and troubled heroes, but likeable as they fight through daunting odds to achieve freedom.
This was the first book I read by this author. I am a Marine Veteran and found it very entertaining. His writing style hooked me and I have read every book he has published. I read this one many years ago
A re-read for me. I first read this maybe 20-25 years ago.One of W.E.B. Griffin's better series, following members of the Marine Corps during WW II.
Best book in the series. Really starts the entire series off on the right foot.
When I wasn’t reading the book, I was thinking and remembering in vivid detail about what I had just read.
I thought my father was the exception at not having a middle name.
After reading “Semper Fi”, not have a middle name wasn’t that unusual during that time period.
If you’re interested in military history and WW2, I highly recommend “Semper Fi.” Although the book spans a few years before the attack on Pearl Harbor and a few days after the attack, if you served in the military (not just USMC), you’ll find yourself having empathy with the major characters since some of the same experiences are universal to military service.
By sheer luck I selected this to be my first W.E.B. Griffin book.
I recommend him to many friends and they too became big fans.HOWEVER, as the years have gone by and he was joined by his son, the quality of books has gone down.
Yes, I wade through them despite having killed much of the pace with an overload of unneeded detail.
The first 40 or so we're fast paced and hard to put down.
I highly recommend that you read each collection in order of written as he takes many characters forward from book to book.
Griffin is a master of dialogue and the building of interesting characters.
Number 1 in a series is a good place to start, but I got a taste for this book because I already listened to number 10, which made me familiar with many of the characters. In this book they were young and their rank in the USMC was lower, but they wee still very realistic. This was a very exciting story which was well done by the author. The audio version was narrated by a very talented person which makes a difference.
I started reading this book with a lot of expectation. The going was engaging but of no substance. The end was very strange - it was as if the author has decided to serialize the plot. Though I loved the character of McCoy, I was really disappointed with the whole experience. Not the best as far as Griffin is concerned. I am also surprised that he got such high ratings in the past.
I liked Semper Fi because of the detailed imagery the author was able to create which made it easy and enjoyable to read the entire series. The detailed character development, and the enjoyment I received from being able to picture those characters in my mind, greatly enhanced my enjoyment of this book.
I have read this series twice beforeWEB Griffin is my favorite author. This series was the first I ever read and I would still have all his books if my wife would have not badgered me to get rid of them. This is the first of a great series which I am buying again for 3x more than I paid for the paperbacks.
This series is a great read, but you should start from the beginning as it is really just one long story. I love all the military detail. You’ll like the books if you liked John Wayne war movies. It captures an idealized culture where men are men and women are accessories.
Gives a unique perspective of 'China-Marines' or what is called 'Old-Marines' then the book lays the ground work for the entire series.If you like military history with a few twists, you'll enjoy this book.
Not for anyone of a generation who might be “triggered” or need a safes pace.It is, after all, about the marines, so if you’re easily offended, stay clear. If - on the other hand - you wish to learn anything about the greatest generation, then enjoy.
This being the first book of a series on the Corps I was expecting to read about the life of a grunt not of a smart ass working in the Corps’ secret service who is so smart he soon becomes an officer. Despite this it is a pleasant read and I am very partial to these sorts of books.
Fun read.
One of my favorite books even though I am in the Army lol. I have probably read this book 7 times.
