https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121172.The_Far_Side_of_the_Dollar
In this admirable example of the Lew Archie series, a wealthy high school boy's search for his personal history precipitates crimes in the present as it dredges up the sins of the past.This book is filled with the hunger for fathers and fathering, and its tragedy is a consequence of fatherly failures, for which mothers--and sons and daughters as well--must suffer.This book has too many flaws to be considered in the category of first-class Archer, that handful of novels that includes perhaps six of the best mystery novels written by anybody anywhere.
Her conversation with Archer in a tree house is one of Macdonald's most moving scenes.
It strongly reminded me of the following:If you do not know where the image comes from, shame on you: go read the book or watch the movie; this is one of the rarest occasions where the movie and the book are equally good.
The boy was still nowhere to be seen.I gave this novel 3.5 stars, but had to round it down despite the fact that it is much better than my usual 3 star reads; it was still quite a page turner.
Dear writers - of romance and any other genre, this is how you write an interesting teen girl in love who is nice and not an extremely selfish person who cares nothing about except her feelings!!!
It seems that nearly every Ross Macdonald novel involves old family secrets rearing their ugly heads. But then Mozart pretty much used only 7 different notes per octave, so it's the execution that matters, not the tools. And this story of private investigator Lew Archer trying to unravel the apparent kidnapping of a teenaged boy is, as is almost always the case with Macdonald, finely executed.
"The Far Side Of The Dollar" begins with a young boy escaping from a prison-like private reform school and leads into murder (naturally), extortion, and very tangled family connections.
And the book I am now in the middle of, "Black Money" revolves around uncovering the truth about a mysterious and wealthy foreigner who has perturbed the lives of many in a tony community and private club.Rather than write slightly different versions of the same story, Mr. Macdonald creates anew the locations, the plots, and even how Archer interacts with his clients and suspects.
I simply love the way this man writes.
Granted, he's glib, and pop, but he's very good at what he does.
He nails people: She smiled, and I caught a glimpse of her life’s meaning.
She cared for other people.
Nobody cared for her.He catches those fleeting but profound emotions:She climbed down the ladder and flitted away through the trees, one of those youngsters who make you feel like apologizing for the world.He can sum up a personality in one line:Daly had the habit of serviceability.
“Okay.
I’ll be there in fifteen minutes.”He can observe society from a cynical distance:The crowd of onlookers ...
But I like it.
The son of a wealthy yachtsman who may or may not have been kidnapped, the masochistic gunman who's 
Another great Lew Archer mystery.
This was my sixth Archer novel and the sixth great novel I've read by Ross Macdonald.
Maybe I was just more sensitive to it in this instance, but Archer had a lot more emotional investment in the characters and action in this one.
A sad, fatalistic weight hung over the proceedings, always appropriate for a hardboiled narrative, but old Lew was caught up in the swirl of loss and failure as much as any of the other characters.While one can jump in and read the Archer novels out of order, I think I would recommend reading this one after you already have a few under your belt.
Closer to 3.5/3.75. These novels start to all resemble each other if you read enough of them close together, even though they're all good. Maybe I would've been a little more wowed had I not just before read Meet Me At The Morgue, which almost feels like a dry run for this novel but by Macdonald's narrator as a probation officer rather than Lew Archer.
Ross MacDonald at his best. The rest of us can rant about the danger of religious fanaticism, but R M simply creates a fearsome character whose demented beliefs set so much of the story in motion and cause such human suffering. And this character takes up but one page.As usual, MacDonald suffused his character's outlook with much sympathy regarding everyone caught up in this mess, including his nemeses.
Another masterpiece from a master. Great story well written. This is why every crime writer should read his works. Each is a lesion well worth learning.
full title: Far Side of the Dollar, or The Private Investigator as Psychotherapist and Family Counselor
Lots of twists at the end!
Glad I came back to MacDonald. Lew Archer is good stuff for when you need more Philip Marlowe but you haven’t any more Marlowe.
MacDonald's detective, Lew Archer, is hired to find a troubled missing boy: ""I'll be frank with you, Mr. Archer," he said, and hesitated.
Archer visits the missing boy's bedroom at his home in the company of his parents: ""I was just wondering if he hung around the harbor much." ""No. He didn't." ""Was he interested in birds?" ""I don't think so." ""Who chose the pictures?" ""I did, " Elaine Hillman said from the hallway.
Stella hits Archer on the head w/ a gun she always carried, surprising everyone: "Next thing I was a V.I.P. traveling with a police guard in the back of a chauffered car.
His main theme, the sins of the parents decades ago will haunt the youth of today, is in full bloom.The story begins when Archer is called to a private boarding school ("Laguna Perdida" - ya gotta love it) for troubled youth to chase down an escaped seventeen year old boy, Tom Hillman.
Apparently Tom has been kidnapped.Archer switches to mostly helping Ralph and his wife Elaine.
Soon one of these people is murdered.We meet quite a few people as Archer travels from Tom's home to the school to some hotels to local businesses to some parents living in Idaho.
The book also explores Archer's prior love life and the tragic quality of it will be familiar to anyone who has ever had their heart broken (a.k.a. all of us).As I previously stated, the largest twist is easy enough to spot but there were a number that I couldn't see coming so it will definitely keep you guessing.
With Macdonald's books, I feel like they live inside of me.
The middle still puzzled me, as well as the ultimate end that lay ahead in the darkness.""People are trying so hard to live through their children.
"People are trying so hard to live through their children.
Well, it could be one of the better books by Ross Macdonald if not for the awkwardly labored ending.Lew Archer arrives at a school for "delinquent and disturbed" minors to help the principal find an escapee, seventeen-year-old Tom Hillman, who sneaked out over the fence in the middle of the night.
Until the last twenty or so pages this reads as an at least three-star book, but then the author offers an overlong, theatrical, artificial ending, which ruins the novel for me.
This book comes between The Chill, which is frequently ranked as Macdonald's best work, and Black Money, which is also a highly lauded.
What sometimes seems a little far fetched is these books is sheer number of hidden relationships and misdeeds, and the ability of these families to sustain the deception seemingly indefinitely, or at least until Archer shows up to blow the lid of everybody's secrets.
Dysfunctional family, money at stake, detective Formula that ticked all the boxes except maybe the box for originality. I’ll read more from the author, but I wouldn’t go so far as some to say he’s up there with Hammet or Chandler in terms of style. Closer to Mickey Spillane or Chase in that regard, excellent plot with some sweet twists toward the finale. Good old-fashioned formulaic fun. Enjoyed it.
A weak opening..., it feels dated. But stick with it. This gets very good.
One of the very best of Ross Macdonald's novels, which makes it one of the very best of the best detective novels ever penned.
Archer sets out to find him, and it turns into a tangled plot involving the kid's parents, a former starlet, and some crew members of Hillman's father's WWII ship.
The plotting is involved, the characters are well-drawn, and the writing is often really great.
But here's a weird thing: as I went to enter this book into Goodreads this morning, I found that I had read it before, in 2007.
I haven't found a way in Goodreads to indicate that this is a different reading than it was before, so I deleted the old review, and remain haunted by my poor memory.
Probably my favorite Archer yet, a young man from a wealthy family escapes from a reform school and Archer is on the case. As he unlocks the mysteries of this Peyton Place drama he learns about the varied affairs of the parents. Along the way Archer gets banged up, his head nearly blown off, and an official diagnosis of a concussion. By this book Archer is firing on all cylinders but might be suffering from the effects of CTE.
Another superlative mystery from Ross Macdonald's strongest period. This book is full of the evocative, melancholy descriptions that flavor his other Archer novels. Even though the books can seem slightly formulaic if you're reading them back-to-back like I have been, they always keep you turning the pages. The abandoned hotel was a cool location almost out of a horror movie that kind of doubles as a metaphor for the past deeds that haunt and infect the present lives of the unhappy characters.
I listened to this book on audio and was engaged most of the time. I especially enjoyed the anachronisms that I had forgotten. They weren't anachronisms then. The cost of living was evidently much less then. The mystery kept me intrigued, and I absolutely did not guess the ending. Lew Archer is the quintessential sleuth, honest and tough.
This is the first Ross MacDonald I read. I reread it recently while recovering from surgery. It is about o boy who gets kidnapped. He learns he is adopted and is looking for his real parents. The plot gets really complicated, but has some good writing. I enjoyed it.
Every few pages someone slips and starts to give away a piece of information they were trying to keep secret, only to cut themselves off with a hand over their mouth. Lazy or careless writing? I'd say so. But it was an entertaining story.
no way MacDonald was better than Chandler. For me at least. I just read three more of his books. They are page turners for sure, but they just don't have that something extra that Chandler's books have.
This is a somewhat off colour, subdued archer. The dialogue is not at its sharpest best. The ending is quite in romantic
2.5 stars.The plot twist at the end was quite nice and all but this really is not the type of mystery I like to read
