https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113625.On_Guerrilla_Warfare
A quick read for a day you are wondering why the world is fighting guerilla-style now.
As Mao Tse-Tung predicted in this seminal text, the style of combat borne in China to repel foreign invaders would soon become the world's violent modus operandi.
Guerillas do exactly the opposite."A note that I found particularly impressive was Mao's insistence that, "We further our mission of destroying the enemy by propagandizing his troops, by treating his captured soldiers with consideration, and by caring for those of his wounded who fall into our hands.
This book was short and educating, and my own writing on the subject of strategy and organization has evolved well because of reading this.While I want to find a book which details specific strategy, such as placement of troops, interaction with specific territory and people, the actions of close-combat tactic, this book, like Art of War with general military movement, instead gives mostly abstract notions of what to do in successfuly carrying out guerrilla operations.
Nonetheless, his ideas and the way he suggests to carry them out, were interesting for historical and educational purposes.Perhaps the most important thing Mao Tse-tung says in this book is something related to how guerrilla warfare cannot succeed without the voluntary will of the people.
After finishing school he associated himself with a Marxist study group where he discovered Lenin and Trotsky, and where he would later become a convinced Communist.In this manual Mao speaks on the basic strategy of guerrilla warfare, which is based on alertness, mobility, attack and deception."The enemy's rear is the guerrillas' front; they themselves have no rear.
The enemy is the principal source of weapons, equipment and ammunition."While Ho Chi Minh (Vietnam) and Che Guevara (Cuba) have associated revolutionary guerrilla warfare with Communism, it is important to remember guerrilla warfare existed long before Communism.
Which ever side wins the support of the general population will be the ultimate victors.Given the current situation in Iraq and Afghanistan, civilian leaders, military leaders, and even average citizens of western powers should read this short book written by the greatest leader of modern guerrilla warfare to better understand the logic and reasons behind insurgent movements.
The small, under armed peasants were no match for the Japanese, but quickness, surprise, and better information allowed for rapid, effective military strikes, eventually wearing down the invaders.I found it interesting that Mao viewed guerrilla tactics as simply one phase of the revolutionary war and it was a means to sap the enemy strength until more confrontational conventional war could be waged.
I can't believe a simple minded basic girl like me who studied computers in uni and can be found reading trashy NA will end up reading On Guerrilla Warfare by Chairman Mao. All thanks to For Love of a Book.
This kick ass book group has many many challenges that would help u shatter ur reading goals expectations and also open up a new reading horizon for youOn Guerrilla Warfare is a pamphlet written for citizens during Sino Japanese War. Its short and very straight to the point.
Say what you want about Chairman Mao being a Communist and killer, but I can't deny that this book is amazing
But worth it.Mao wrote this small book in 1937 while leading the Chinese Red Army guerrillas against the Japanese invaders.
In fact, while short, it's so excellent, that when combined with Mao's text, I couldn't help but wonder what would have happened if the French and US governments and military had read the original first, and for the US later, this edition.
Griffith, the translator, makes a point that both Ho Chi Mihn and Castro used this primer and this strategy successfully and it's hard to argue against its success.Mao writes of political goals for guerrillas.
Griffith's translation and interpretation of Mao's slim little booklet on the strategy and use of guerrilla warfare is a true classic -- one that I would recommend anyone who is either interested in Chinese military history or -- ready for this one?
-- doing business in China or finds themselves competing with Chinese businesses elsewhere in the world.
I am still working through the use and implementation of Mao's strategies for business purposes but the deeper you get into the book, the more you see many of these strategies and tactics are being used to advance Chinese business interests.
Like the art of war, this is a fascinating book into the mind of Mao. On Guerrilla Warfare was written in the 1950's and describes most of the tactics used by the Viet Kong to defeat the US during the Vietnam conflict. It has a lot of applicability in the business world and actually in any group dynamic.It is also a study in strategy to exectuion.
Mao, who knew and trusted the peasants, and had correctly gauged their revolutionary potential, was convinced that the Chinese urban proletariat were too few in number and too apathetic to make a revolution""Intelligence is the decisive factor in planning Guerrilla operations""In a guerrilla area, every person without exception must be considered an agent-old men, women, boys driving ox carts, girls tending goats, farm laborers, storekeepers, schoolteachers, priests, boatmen, scavengers""Guerrillas deny all information of themselves to their enemy, who is enveloped in an impenetrable fog""The mind of the enemy and the will of his leaders is a target of far more importance than the bodies of his troops""Guerrillas must be expert at running always since they do it so often.
Mao is concerned specifically with partisan warfare, i.e. guerrilla warfare by irregular units in support of a regular army.
He lays out traditional guerrilla tactics: avoiding battle except when delaying, harassing, or attacking isolated units; keeping close relationships with the people among whom the guerrillas operate; centralized strategy but decentralized tactical operations; political indoctrination of the troops and of the people (printing presses are among the necessary equipment he identifies).
He discusses the importance of secure bases where guerrillas can rest, refit, and train, and the difficulty of defending them when guerrilla units are unsuited for tactical defense.
Mao's writing on guerilla warfare has become a guide on waging revolution in underdeveloped areas around the world.
Mao recognizes the difference between rural and urban societies to create strategies that create advantages for the lower class.In his writing, Mao highlights the signifigance of guerilla war as it creates areas for production, agriculture, and exploits the strengths and weaknesses of large armies and help guide the lower class in fighting them.
I would definitely recommend this book and other books in his series.
This is the short text based on Mao's experiences fighting the Chinese Nationalists as well as preparing to fight the Imperial Japanese Army as it invaded the Chinese mainland.
Most people do think of Mao more in line as Chairman Mao. Take away what you think of him personally, he was a gifted military leaders with a keen mind.
This is valuable to read, especially his treatment of protracted war, very different than most traditional Western military theory.
It is also timely, as the United States fights protracted wars of its own, in Iraq and Afghanistan, not to mention the global war on terror.
Mao's book is a classic on guerrilla warfare, ably translated and contextualized by General Samuel B Griffith.
This book mainly covers the theoretical and strategic aspects of guerrilla warfare, the need for complete political clarity at all levels, strict ethical codes and internal discipline for the men, and the proposed use of guerrillas against a qualitatively superior but numerically inferior force tasked with occupation and pacification.
This book won't teach you about how to set an ambush and not starving to death in the woods, but it will cover the basic steps between an isolated an ineffective movement and the fall of a government.
Taking Place during the second Sino-Japanese War or more commonly know as WW2, Mao Tse-tung a brilliant general and future leader of China talks about the war efforts and what needs to be done concerning guerrilla warfare. This book is base on Sun Tzu's war manual "Art of War" and the author expands it by talking about guerrilla operations and why they are necessary. Over all this book is a great read in the right hands. Mao Tse-tung "On Guerrilla Warfare" is read almost like a manual, and takes a little studying to understand what the author is truly saying.
It's not great writing, and it's not even particularly gripping stuff. The translation is perhaps not the greatest, or perhaps Mao was not a literary genius.That said, it's an important read. I found it recommended in Petraeus' bibliography to his Counterinsurgency Field Manual as one of the classic texts on the subject. It's short and easy to get through in one brief sitting, and it positively informs one's understanding of all recent insurgency-fueled conflicts, including Algeria, Vietnam, and now Iraq.
iT SEEMS TO ME THAT HO CHI MING TOOK ALL HE DID IN FIGHTING A GUERRILLA WAR FROM THE WORDS OF MAO TSE=TUNG. I HAD READ THE FIRST LAST YEAR AND IT SO JUST LIKE THIS BOOK. I WONDER IF PRESIDENT Johnson HAD READ EITHER BOOK. IF HE OR OUR MILITARY LEADERS HAD READ BOTH BOOKS, THE VIET NAM WAR COULD HAVE BEEN AVOIDED, I THINK
Mr. Mao writes in a clear, straightforward style. I think he has a future in writing. Perhaps of a little red book or something. Really though, this is a straightforward and surprisingly practical book about waging guerrilla warfare against a traditional army. Mao sets the context for a guerrilla army within that of a larger fighting force. I enjoyed his insights.
Must read for anyone interested in unconventional warfare. Mao set out his 3 phases - establish a regional base, start direct action, then gain decision and victory. Believed that in every disadvantage there is an advantage, and the converse.
This is another book that I have returned to often over the years. It taught me the basic construct that rebels, partisans, guerrillas, terrorists, etc. use. I think that it is no coincidence that Al Qaida translates to "the base," a Mao concept.
With this and "The Art of War", I am now adequately prepared to teach high school.
I think Mao Tse Tung basically played psychological side of human in the war. Lesson learned I can take to be considered:It should, feudal system be vanished and be not used anymore. But, we still see that in many modern organizations use that system, ironically the organizations are within educational institution. All students and teachers need to read this book, so they can take some values then implement it.
Essential to understanding how Mao came to power..."The guerrilla must move amongst the people as a fish swims in the sea."
Amazing
a great read because he was writing what he was experiencing.
Much more interesting than Che's. I really only compare them because I read them back to back, but the scope of this one is just more interesting overall.
the first treatise on guerrilla warfare. a must read for anyone in iraq/afghanistan, involved with tactics or policy in any sort of battle against guerrillas.
Interesting little study, you can also see where Clausewitz had influenced Mao here. Essential reading for those wishing to understand warfare in the modern age.
I am enjoying this book a lot. The theory behind Gurrilla warfare is really solid. This book has gets my wheels turning as to how to counter gurilla warfare.
the ultimate self-help manual...a must
much has been said about this book already, but terrific insights into how to run an insurgency
