https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414789.Morphology_of_the_Folktale
Явно обаче все пак са ме впечатлили дълбоко, защото по-късно през училищните лета четях не само задължителната литература, а баща ми взимаше от библиотеката африкански, уралски, руски народни, приказки на Пушкин, приказки на прибалтийските народи, приказки от Австралия и Океания… Като цяло съм пораснала с възгледа на Айнщайн: „Ако искате децата ви да бъдат интелигентни, четете им приказки.
Ако искате да бъдат по-интелигентни, четете им повече приказки.“Владимир Проп е направил доста стегнат разбор на елементите на вълшебните приказки, който обаче има по-скоро характера на лаконична класификация.
На доста места така и звучи – като нещо съкратено, но не особено добре.
His work is valuable because it triggered a new understanding and method of categorization that allowed for a more "scientific" and systematic approach to studying fairy tale narratives than earlier studies had accomplished.
Now the other half: As much as I enjoyed Propp's perceptiveness and ability to dig below the surface words to identify the relationships between the core structural elements of fairy tales, I was a bit disappointed in his apparatus for demonstrating these structures.
Using his categories (letters and symbols) to identify specific events in sequences, I attempted to follow -- step by step -- the structures of his examples by referencing his explications of each element.
Al di là di queste premesse, che poi furono in qualche modo sopraffatte da altro genere di studi successivi, la Morfologia della Fiaba mi appare come un tentativo riuscitissimo di identificare le funzioni e l'andamento di una storia!
Questo lavoro è vivamente consigliato a chi scrive, proprio per questo motivo: è affascinante pensare che, in fondo alle nostre menti, sussistano degli archetipi tali che, pur senza la volontà di seguire un determinato schema di andamento di una storia, essa si crei da sé, superando differenze culturali, geografiche, di epoche!
Ciò che attrae le nostre menti di lettori segue sempre il medesimo filone, le medesime azioni dei personaggi.
Ma ciò che essi compiono segue sempre una linea determinabile.
Si le nombre de fonctions est réduit à 31, le nombre de personnages entre qui se répartissent ces fonctions est encore moindre : seulement sept, identifiés selon leurs sphères d’action : la sphère d’action de l’agresseur (comprenant le méfait, le combat, la poursuite) ; du donateur (préparation et don de l’objet magique) ; de l’auxiliaire (déplacement dans l’espace, réparation du méfait ou du manque, secours, accomplissement de la tâche, transfiguration) ; de la princesse/ personnage recherché (demande d’accomplir une tâche, marque, découverte du faux héros, reconnaissance, punition, mariage) ; du mandateur (l’envoi du héros) ; du héros (départ, réaction aux exigences du donateur, mariage) ; du faux héros (départ, réaction négative aux exigences du donateur, prétentions mensongères).Propp peut maintenant donner la définition du conte :On peut appeler conte merveilleux du point de vue morphologique tout développement partant d’un méfait (A) ou d’un manque (a), et passant par les fonctions intermédiaires pour aboutir au mariage (W) ou à d’autre fonctions utilisées comme dénouement.
An incredibly academic analysis of fairy tales.
If you're not merely interested in fairy tales but also variants and things like that, you are very likely to like it.Note that familiarity with tales, especially Russian ones, helps a lot to recognize what he's talking about.
(All the Russian tales are identified by number.
I wouldn't mind that so much -- all of Brother Grimms' do, too, though you may need the right edition -- and of course he uses Alexander Afanasyev's -- if I could find a translation that bothered to give me the numbers.)But the break down into the abstract functions and characters and other elements is fascinating, with some colorful details about the possibilities.
Extremely 'important,' brilliant, dry as dust structuralism.
It pleasingly falls into place in the history of literary theory (structuralism as a better way of understanding literary form than pure historical reconstructions), and is as detailed as you'd expect.
It should also be helpful for those who read or write fairy tales, which, for the uninitiated, is a very hip thing to do at the moment.
For those who don't want to do history of theory, or fairy tales, this book will be fairly unhelpful.
It might even be painful.
It should probably be avoided.
That said, the cover is astonishingly well designed.
I haven't read much of this kind of thing so maybe I'm overly impressed but I think it's brilliant. It's also incredibly readable. I've had to read some lit-crit let's-decision-narrative-structure-historicism-blah-blah essays that were pointless and convoluted and seemed designed to put everyone off litcrit entirely so Propp's readability gets major points from me.
През повечето време си мислех колко ли би се радвал Проп, ако беше доживял създаването на TVTropes. И естествено там има статия за книгата, която е определена като "one of the first critical trope-spottings" <3
Освен, че е основополагаща за развитието на приказния анализ, книгата на Проп е изненадващо четима и позволява на дилетанта да се запознае с основните елементи, използвани за строежа на вълшебните приказки.
A well-deserved member of the classic canon of fairy and folk tale studies. I love me some charts and diagrams.
Visto desde Lévi-Strauss o Barthes, Propp parecía un tío rústico al que sólo se mencionaba por cortesía, pero Morfología del cuento siguió atrayendo a lectores atentos por sus propios méritos mucho después de que el estructuralismo se extinguiera como una moda académica.
Aunque los modelos formales han avanzado mucho desde entonces, su morfología sigue siendo retomada como toy model y sirviendo de punto de partida para juegos, programas, algoritmos e investigaciones.Más allá de lo ténico, creo que esa recepción tan cálida a un libro tan frío también puede entenderse de forma estética.
Amazing reading - a mixture of what I've been expecting and what I have long forgotten about.I guess this is the first time I see the literature explained through the economic formations - and feasible too. Sane and logical, that's what is wonderful. To tell the truth, I saw some before - but few (perhaps, I was born too late), and rather lame even for that.Very, very say and disillusional - to differ from psychoanalysts and all that Jung.
Užitočná a veľmi detailná príručka nie len k pochopeniu štruktúry rozprávky, ale aj k identifikácii hrdinov, škodcov, pomocníkov a rôznych iných postáv, ktoré sú v dejinách rozprávky otvorené, alebo šifrované. Pútavá Proppova teória čerpá z bohatého zázemia ruských rozprávok - uvádza príklady a s matematickou precíznosťou ozrejmuje zdanlivo prehľadný fenomén príbehov nielen pre deti.
This is a classic in narrative analysis and literary criticism. Propp, a Russian Formalist, unpacks the genre of folktale paring them down to their essential elements. Read as a follow-up to Levi-Strauss' The Structural Study of Myth, this book will make you an indomitable force!
skip the appendixes. A tale's two-fold quality: its amazing multiformity, picturesqueness, and color, and on the other hand, its no less striking uniformity, its repetition.
Vladimir Propp es uno de los nombres que asociamos al formalismo ruso gracias a su trabajo Morfología del cuento en el que elabora un análisis exhaustivo de las funciones que llevan a cabo los personajes en los cuentos maravillosos, así como las transformaciones de los mismos.
En el primer capítulo, Historia del problema, Propp lanza una crítica a los estudios precedentes en el ámbito literario que solían versar sobre los mismos temas y eran de un marcado carácter filosófico en detrimento del rigor científico.
La propuesta de Propp es clara: el estudio de la literatura necesita del mismo rigor que el estudio de otras disciplinas científicas.
The book describes how to study or breakdown folktales into components using quasi-mathematical formulas to reveal their morphology or form.
This digestion of the folktale and the fairy-tale subset can allow for new plots and stories to be revealed or formulated by simply substituting the values (occurrences) in the variables representing the components though the formula itself may change depending on the general "shape" of the tale itself.
I found it interesting but a little hard to read fortunately the text is short at around 100 pages.
If this really is your thing then this book will be interesting if not then stay far away!
Geeks who like fiction will love this book.Propp published the original edition of his amazing study in 1927 in his native Russia.
It's detailed nature may turn off the casual reader, but once I reached a certain point in the study the material compelled me to continue reading.Once having amassed such a collection of data points certain things became noticeable to Propp -- for instance, the sequence of functions is always identical.I will not give away his conclusions in this review.
But since reading this volume I cannot help but notice the formulas presented herein appear in contemporary fiction.
Somehow it seems like circular reasoning to claim one has a theory of how folktales work, when the definition of a folktale seems to be what matches the formula that you've declared.It's like saying that the only book that is a romance novel is one that follows the Harlequinn formula, or the only thrillers are those that match a certain structure.It may be reasonable for the purpose of categorizing books. But it seems to be somewhat limitting to the genre.
Bedrock of 20th century semiotics and narratology. Even though it is a short book, it is absolutely worth reading very closely, with full attention and a notebook on the side to take notes and copy Propp's schemas.
Brilliant seminal study of Russian folktales, extremely influential throughout 20th century, establishes a structure for anthropologists to use in future studies. Not for the faint hearted, but if you're interested in the subject, it's a must read.
Velice zajímavý pohled na pohádky, psaný takovým stylem, že má člověk chuť si hned přečíst všechny ruské pohádky. Formalistické studie literatury jsou pro mě cosi jako algebra, která vstoupila na literární scénu.
I was gonna give this four stars purely because it actually was the Propp reading I needed, but then I remembered that whole chapter where he translated the structure of a story into a mathematical equation and melted my brain for a whole ten pages so Propp lost himself a star
Utile per tutto quello che ha rappresentato e per gli studi futuri, ma noioso...
*3.5*
Brilliant, but the algebraic formulas are a bit intimidating considering we're analysing subjective stories.
Неожиданно приятно читается даже такими злобными технарями, как я.
Must read for children when they want to become adults.
It'll change your way of thinking
Scritto negli anni Venti, ancora attuale. Ottimo per spunti di partenza nella creazione di Fiabe-favole-fantasy. Razionalizza il percorso e fa comprendere il meccanismo. Assurdo quanto sia veritiero.
