https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150192.Killers_of_the_Dream
This book offers perhaps the most profound and yet concise explanation of the origins of 'white supremacy' -- as a concept, a practice, and even a legal framework at one time in our country. She has taken an extremely complicated issue and presented it in a way that is easy to follow, makes a great deal of sense, and I think it should be national required reading, for ALL ages.
This is interesting mostly as a look at person who wrote it.
I'd been mostly in the dark as to the activities of the vocal minority of anti-segregation white southerners of the 40's and 50's.
She has interesting ideas about the relationship between gender inequality, sexuality, and racial dynamics, and about the complicated and psychologically destructive process southern children (mostly white) underwent in learning the unwritten rules of the Jim Crow south.
In the end, though, it's mostly interesting as a look into her own mind, since the activist, feminist, liberal southerner is kind of a neglected historical aside.
i always find it interesting and awfully sad that books written during/around the heights of the civil rights movement are still so damned spot-on about how incredibly racist America is...
Smith's personal-slash-historical/factual rendering of life in the South under a racist government is appallingly real and still pertinent...
at times, white America has undervalued, even ignored, the personal/the memoir/the storytelling aspect of history/the past...
and when the teller is black, it is often disregarded as unqualified or just bitter recriminations (what else would be fitting, i ask, considering slavery, etc.???) about white America...
Best book ever to understand how politics in America came to be and is still hobbled by Southern States; not all the time, Clinton broke through. But Smith shows why the animosity and now, overt hatred to Obama. In hobbleling us, the south has even more grossly hobbled itself.
Much of the pleasure of reading comes from the style, and the rest is, as often happens with these old books, the interest factor of discovering long-forgotten facts and anecdotes (including plenty of bizarre quotes from early-20th-century Southern newspaper editorials).I don't know enough about the genre to suggest that this is a "classic" of U.S. integrationist literature, but Killers of the Dream does seem to give one of the most powerful accountings you're likely to see about how it felt to be, in those days, a wealthy white woman somewhere between 30 and 50 years ahead of her moral era.
Race and money are inherent limiting factors here, as they so often are, but that shouldn't stop you from picking up the book.As a bonus, my edition contained footnotes from 1961, 12 years after the book had been written, in the midst of the lunch-counter desegregation wars.
A fascinating and disturbing read about the (continuing) consequences of white supremacy and other legacies of the American South.
A few favorite quotes: "...for nearly two centuries, white supremacy and Christian asceticism of a crude naive kind combined with isolation and poverty to destroy the vast talent that was dormant..." p.
217 And, "Even now, much of our best talent goes into what F.
L. Lucas calls 'stained-glass writing,' which shuts out the glare of the turmoil in man's soul and his world, seducing the feelings with its wondrous little patterns of words that block off insight carefully and graciously." p.
This book offers an insightful and sometimes astounding look at the factors that contribute to segregation and racism. Smith probes the painful questions about WHY someone could function as a decent, compassionate, and 'good' person in many regards, yet either condone or quietly ignore horrible injustices. She shines an uncomfortable light on the damage caused by the taboo against speaking up or questioning tradition.
This book was one of the first that I read when I was trying to understand the complicated world of racism and how I fit into it. Written so long ago, it’s one of the most honest looks at racism as a white person. Lillian is one of the original anti racists. Such an important read for every white person.
Phenomenal. Lillian Smith probes with sharp criticism the pre-1960s southern way of life. This book is at times soulful diary, at times insightful diatribe. With masterful introspection, she looks beyond her own identity to explore the link between sexual and racial discrimination. Really, this is simply beautiful writing explaining a thoughtful analysis of human behavior. Recommend to everyone.
Interesting story from a women who grew up in the segregated south. I’ve never heard a story of reasons and roots of White Supremacy like this. Beautiful language at the beginning. Little bit rambling at the end.
Beautiful book, many things reminded me of the politics we are in today. Kind of slow and confusing at parts but a worthy read
Excellent read on the experience of a white southern child and development though the time of Jim Crow Laws at its height of enforcement.
The writer used an affected pseudo-academic tone, presumably intending her tortuous phrasing to sound extra erudite--witness a 107-word example:"And just as one lynching in Dixie shakes the whole world, poised as it is today in such delicate equilibrium, so do the efforts to make lynching a national crime upset on deep unverbalized levels of the mind those southern leaders and their northern associates who gave the privilege of lynching to rural whites as a ritualistic reward for accepting so meekly their design for living, who protected it through the years, and who now dread the withdrawal of this compensation, knowing well that the design will crumble quickly, and not knowing at all what will follow thereafter, either in their region or in their own minds."Reading Killers of the Dream was a difficult slog but I'm glad I completed the journey.
Published in 1949, a powerful critique of society in the South: segregation, sin, sexual mores and so on.Lillian Smith pointed out, for example, how the same parents and models who taught her morals and what she knew "of tenderness and love and compassion" taught her "the bleak rituals of keeping Negroes in their 'place.'" They taught her also "to split my conscience from my acts and Christianity from southern tradition."The "special southern trauma in which segregation not only divided the races but divided the white child's heart."She also described what she called "three ghost relationships ...
As Lillian Smith points out, the greatest Southern writers actually painted a picture of Southern culture extremely accurately.
The South was full of grotesqueries because it tried to portray Southern 'culture' yet allowed segregation and lynching to perpetuate.
Smith argues that this unwanted coalescence of antipodes drove a lot of Southerners to become peculiar individuals: they were people who knew the truth, but didn't let it out; they knew what was right, but stuck to tradition.
I'm glad that nowadays, all races are equal in America whether in the North or in the South.
I'm working on a project that focuses on white Georgia women during the Progressive era in which I'm trying to untangle views on race, so, although I'm ashamed to admit that although I'd never before read Lillian Smith's books, I wanted to read her reflections on race in her home region.
Although she is writing in the late 1940s, her reflections in this book about her childhood were helpful.
Overall, the book is a painful commentary of a white woman in the South struggling to understand race relations by both putting the issues into the context of her own life and that of the history of the region.
I can't believe I didn't read this book years ago.
It's probably only because I'm in grad school that I count this as 'fun' reading, because it's a social analysis of the South.
It's a little dry, but not entirely, and the writing feels a bit dated style-wise (this was originally published in the 40s).
However, I thought it was fascinating as an attempt to explain the worst parts of the South's history and continuing wounds of racism and segregation.
Lillian Smith is from the Florida panhandle or Georgia, can't remember which, so her analysis comes from inside and therefore doesn't annoy me.
This book reminds me that fighting for justice (and writing for it, speaking for it, singing for it, LIVING for it) is an integral component of a complete life for me. Smith inspires me. A woman of vision, she displayed a precient understanding of the complexities of Southern society during her lifetime. Written in 1949, this book was a precursor of and inspiration for the Civil Rights Movement, exposing the moral and social cost of racial segregation, gender discrimination, and sexual oppression in the US. There should be more books like this one and more women like its author.
Changed my life in seminary and gave perspective to my own upbringing (which was far more Lillian Smith-like than Southern). I keep returning to the first chapters and the sense of futility expressed by her camper, especially after the experience of the play--not out of some masochistic tendency, but because I know that it will always take strength to speak out against racism. It helps me to name what we're up against (which has expanded in the years since the publication).
Amazing deconstruction of the collective social psychology of the racist white south. Although written in 1949, it feels uncomfortably current. It is a difficult book to review. It is filled with parables and metaphors that comment on the role that religion, white classism, the collective shame of slavery, gender roles, sexuality and the false construction of "whiteness" has played in the creation of a culture of hatred and violence.
This was the first book on the syllabus for ENG/Women's Studies 307, (100 years of Southern Women Writers), in which I am serving as a graduate-level TA. It seemed too dry and abstract at first, but, as we progressed into novels by black women writers like Alice Walker and autobiographical writing by Zora Neale Hurston and others, it proved to serve as a good background about the ways of thinking in the segregated south.
This is a book, written in the 40's, by an immensely gifted author, who I feel has never gotten the attention, accolades and required reading that she so richly deserves. She is a southern woman,so aware of the struggle that was swallowing the South and how hated and feared were the black male and female. A must to any student of history.
This book is so great. Read it for my history class on southern women from the nineteenth century. It's heavily based on psychoanalysis. Lillian Smith writes with a provocative language as she attempts to explain the sickness of the south during the Jim Crow Era. This book definitely makes you think!
I had forgotten I read this book until I saw it on my bookshelf yesterday. I read it for an American Studies class when I was an undergraduate at the University of Alabama (1988-1992), and part of my Women's Studies minor. Rose Gladney was my American Studies professor for the class, and was an amazing teacher.
I should have read this book in college. It is beautifully written, with some of the most effective metaphors in nonfiction I have ever read. Nancy Smith Fichter, a niece of Lillian Smith, is now running the Lillian Smith Center near Clayton, Georgia, as a writer's retreat. Nancy and her husband, Robert, are doing a fine job of keeping the dream alive.
Lillian Smith's book has as much insight into the world of racism today as it did when it was written. She describes the South I grew up in and oftentimes the one I still live in. Though we've made some progress, we're far away from believing we're all one race - the human one.
A book I should have been encouraged to read in high school. Smith's insights, though gleaned from the dark lessons of her Jim Crow Southern (white)/girlhood, still apply, I'm afraid, to the consciousness of many. Fiery, eloquent, shining writing. She has much to say about sexuality, too.
An important book in its time with an unfortunate relevance for current times, but I found her style too fraught and Freudian.Though I suppose one could argue that the South of the early 20th century was fraught and Freudian.
To understand the present is to understand the past. The book was eye-opening and somehow is still relatable to today, surprisingly. Highly recommend this book if you want to understand the current social issues in America.
Many of its reflections now seem outdated and even a little naive, but you have to respect how audacious this book must have been in 1949. The recognition that an oppressive culture dehumanizes everyone, even the privileged classes, is something that seems to be little understood even today.
