https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34529.Lords_and_Ladies
“Witches can generally come to terms with what actually is, instead of insisting on what ought to be.” As anyone who knows me can attest to, I tend to gush over Pratchett's books, with all his wit and wisdom and the ability to create incredibly clever and very serious humor rooted in uncomfortably deep understanding of human mind.  “Personal’s not the same as important. People just think it is.” Lords and Ladies of the Lancre Witches subcycle of the Discworld books was the first Pratchett Witch
Lords and Ladies of the Lancre Witches subcycle of the Discworld books was the first Pratchett Witches book I've read a few years ago (I tended to read them out of order, whichever one the library happened to have in stock) and the book that immediately sealed my love for Granny Weatherwax and Co.These books are about a small coven of witches in a tiny mountainous country of Lancre, usually with a dab of William Shakespeare somewhere in the plot.
And elves far away in fairyland, well, maybe that’s something people need to get ’emselves through the iron times.
BWAHAHAHAHAHAHA.In this 14th volume of the Discworld series our three witches Granny Esme Weatherwax, Nanny Githa Ogg and Magrat return after their adventure in Genua to find all preparations made for a certain royal wedding.
On the Disc, crop circles mean that the barriers between worlds weaken and what is trying to get to Lancre has not only been there before, but has also not been very nice the last time, no matter what folklore says nowadays.
i agree wholeheartedly, this is my FAVORITE of the Witch series. I love Granny v Lily in "Witches Abroad," but if you delighted in Mrs. Weasley gettin all Sigourney Weaver on Bellatrix L in the last Harry Potter, YOU'LL LOVE the whole last third of the book. i squirmed with glee as soon as Magrat put on that armor. the principle of a cat in a box being any of 3 various states till you open the box: alive, dead, bloody pissed off is all i know about physics, or need to know.
:) This is a pretty direct followup from Mag's romantic adventure with the king-to-be and culminating in the grand wedding between the two.
As weddings go, every grand personage of the Discworld (or so it seems) has been invited to the wedding, but of course, things don't go all that well with all those crop circles and the E***S who must not be named.Pretty funny, all told, but it's Og and her suiter who steals the show.
Mags...
Why can't I care all that much that Mag is NO LONGER A WITCH?I complain, sure, but it's not a complaint because I think the novel is bad.
Elves on the Discworld.In Guillermo del Toro’s 2008 film Hellboy 2, the Elvin character Prince Nuada makes a point about humans remembering why they fear the dark.
These elves are dark creatures, thoroughly unfaeirie like and even un-Tolkien like.Terry Pratchett’s 1992 Discworld novel (the 14th) Lords and Ladies describes a similarly negative vision of elves.
I could not help wondering is del Toro gained some inspiration from Pratchett’s dark elves.Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Og and Magrat are just getting back to Lancre from their travels in Pratchett’s 1991 Witches Abroad and Magrat is getting married to King Verence and some precocious and misguided local girls are tempting fate by messing around with some local Druidic circles of vast power.
This book has Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg and Magrat Garlick returning home to Lancre from their time away (see Witches Abroad).
Granny and Nanny both have a lot going on as well, with the faculty of the Unseen University and Casanunda paying visits.
Oh, and an incursion into our reality by murderous Elves and their Queen.There's a lot of foundation being laid for the future of the Witches in this book.
I think that was part of the genius of Terry: fourteen books in and he's still writing foundational stories for his universe.
It's about faith in stories, and knowing the difference between what is true and what you wish were true.It's circle time again, where crop circles are appearing everywhere, and the parallel and parasite universes are coming into closer contact, and Granny Weatherwax knows that she is going to die.Or is she?
And Granny herself is remembering things that happened to all possible Esme Weatherwaxes, and for someone as sure of herself as she is, is having a serious identity problem.Something needs to be said here about the three witches of Lancre, recurring characters as they are in all of the Witches books of the series.
The gals have been gone a while, and lots of things can happen in eight month's time.Magrat is still planning to marry the new king (and former fool) of Lancre, and anyone who's everyone will be attending the Royal Wedding, including our favorite Librarian.
(If only they can get him to put on some clothes...)But wait...strange things are happening.
(Well, stranger things than the strange things that normally happen in Discworld.) Even the bees are worried.Granny Weatherwax is reunited with an old love.
Nanny Ogg is being wooed by a dwarf who's also the world's second greatest lover.
Definitivamente Pratchett se luce en la saga de las brujas, cada nueva historia es mejor que la anterior.Los personajes principales crecen mucho en esta entrega.
Conocemos mucho mejor a Magrat y a Yaya, y las conversaciones entre ésta y Tata son tronchantes.
Introducir a los magos en el universo particular de Lancre es todo un acierto, pero para mi el gran punto fuerte es la teoría de los universos alternativos, muy bien llevada a lo largo de la novela.Ha sido muy curioso conocer a los lores y las damas habiendo leído 'El señor de los anillos' hace poco más de un mes.
Rereading this was a revelation of sorts. I had forgotten that this book was about elves and also how much I had learned from Granny Weatherwax in this novel.Needless to say I enjoyed the read immensely and can't wait to continue traveling in Discworld.
It started slow and I was beginning to wonder how is it possible that a story with Granny Weatherwax could be like this.
Then it picked up a bit and almost until one heart-stopping moment near the end it was just an ok story with occasional brilliant flashes that I have come to expect from a Discworld book.As usual, Nanny Ogg was hilarious.
'Elves are wonderful.
They provoke wonder.Elves are marvelous.
The jolt I got from that hart-stopping moment near the end was enough to save this story.
(view spoiler)[I thought Pratchett killed one of my favourite characters.
De nuevo encantada con un libro de Mundodisco.
Siempre he dicho que mi subsaga favorita era la de la Muerte, pero hace algún tiempo que creo que las brujas la han superado.
No se me ocurre qué decir sin repetirme: me encanta el humor de Terry Pratchett, el universo de Mundodisco...
Pero es que este libro, que es en parte una parodia de "El sueño de una noche de verano", me ha enganchado mucho y me ha hecho disfrutar hasta el punto de que se me ha hecho corto y no quería que acabase.
¡Qué gran talento tenía Pratchett!Un saludo, Carol Rodríguez
В този малък брилянт, по удивителния главознански начин, разкриваме истината за най-гнусните, миризливи, жестоки, отвратителни по стандартите на няколко паралелни вселени същества, а именно какви изроди са всевеличавите елфи и техните гаднеещи домашни любимци еднорозите; смеещи да се наричат господари на света, който иначе така силно мразят, че ще се смеят гръмко в подобие на щастие, докато го стъпкват под особено изящните си, понамирисващи на мухъл и гранясала мас крачета.За пореден път Пратчет предизвиква постулатите на класическото фентъзи, принизявайки Леголас и Арвен до кльощави откаченяци, владеещи фокусите на омаята и някое и друго прецизирано мъчение с остри предмети от не-железен произход.
To clarify, I don’t really consider any of the Discworld stories to be that strong so I’m not saying this is a story that will keep people on the edge of their seats, but it did hold my interest.
I’m not sure how to describe what this one is about without spoiling the not-entirely-unexpected-but-still-interesting reveal about who the antagonists are, so I’ll just be vague and say that some wannabe young witches meddle with things they don’t understand and help certain unexpectedly evil and malicious beings gain a foothold into the world.I'm giving this book 3.5 stars on BookLikes, but I didn't enjoy it enough to round up to 4 stars here.
I love Pratchett's spin on fantasy.
He takes a well-known faerie tale (elves) and shines a totally different light on them: "Elves are wonderful.
They provoke wonder.
Elves are marvellous.
They cause marvels.
Elves are fantastic.
They create fantasies.
Elves are glamorous.
Elves are enchanting.
They weave enchantment.
Elves are terrific.
No one ever said elves are nice.
Pratchett does such a wonderful job of developing all these characters that by the end of the book I feel like I know them personally.I was sad to see the book end.
I never found myself terribly impressed with the Witches but this one may have been the one that completely rewrote it for me.While exploring some very genre changing themes for the race of Elves, Pratchett manages to squeeze in a fair share of character development that's quite unlike him.
Sure, his books do offer fantastic characters, but you could usually count on them to be the same ponies at the end, which I'm happy to say has changed now.
The last couple of books I've read from Terry Pratchett have been on an ascending slope regarding both humor and the quality of the story so I'm hoping that this will continue in the future.
Lords and Ladies is the fourth book in the Weatherwax Canon (though Equal Rites' Granny was clearly an entirely different character) and Pterry himself admits that it had indeed become a canon in the foreword.On my first read I was really surprised by the inclusion of a few choice Faculty members in the narrative, and while it was absolutely necessary for Ridcully to be there, it did feel as though the Librarian/Bursar/Stibbons were along to ensure more plot-important characters were able to go where they needed to.
Lords and Ladies was the start of a run of books that changed the way I read.

Sunt sigur că Lumea Disc există pe undeva, prin multivers. Iar genialul ei creator, Terry Pratchett, o veghează și acum îndeaproape. Am avut ocazia să vizitez din nou minunatul și minusculul regat Lancre, unde Buna Batevreme și Țața Ogg au avut de-a face cu... cu... of, nu le pot spune numele, n-am destul fier prin preajmă. Dar cartea a fost excepțională.
I like this one: about how folklore isn't as benign as we often believe, about all the different lives we might have led...and about how, especially on your wedding day, "it's not about what you've got but how you got it." I'd have preferred mud-encrusted chain mail and scraps of silk to the dress I had, but the truth of this still applies to me as much.
Was there ever any question. I am a huge fan girl when it comes to the great Terry, but the witches are my absolute favourites.Nanny Ogg is my hero.And I love the sly references throughout.
Es la noche del Solsticio de Verano, y para la boda de Magrat Ajostiernos y el rey Verence los rústicos artesanos de Lancre han preparado un "Entretenimiento teatral" junto a los bailarines, el antiguo círculo de piedras.¿Que podría salir mal?Los elfos son prodigiosos.
Provocan prodigios.Los elfos son maravillosos.
Causan maravillas.Los elfos son fantásticos.
Crean fantasías.Los elfos son fascinantes.
Proyectan fascinación.Los elfos son encantadores.
Urden encantamientos.Los elfos son tremendos.
O tom, čo na nás číha v temných zákutiach najspodnejšej vrstvy sukieň Starenky Oggovej vlastnej myslePS: Vedci sa už desaťročia márne snažia skĺbiť elektromagnetizmus, silné a slabé jadrové sily a gravitáciu, rada by som preto poukázala na fakt, že Pratchettovi sa v tejto knihe podarilo skĺbiť elektromagnetizmus, silné a slabé jadrové sily a gerontofilných trpaslíkov.(Len 3*, lebo to hodnotím v rámci série)
These stories manage to be funny and poignant. Loved it!
"Elves are wonderful.
They provoke wonder.Elves are marvellous.
They cause marvels.Elves are fantastic.
They project glamour.Elves are enchanting.
They weave enchantment.Elves are terrific.
They beget terror.The thing about words is that meanings can twist just like a snake, and if you want to find snakes look for them behind words that have changed their meaning.No one ever said elves are nice.Elves are bad."This book reminded me that I need to re-read all the "Witches" novels of Discworld and reconsider them all.
"Nanny Ogg looked under her bed in case there was a man there.
[First read: 19th August, 2011: 5 stars.Second read: 25th July, 2013: 5 stars.]Pratchett has an unbelievable knack for taking an idea that has been around for centuries, stretching it out with a rolling-pin and kneading it into something majestic and full of such originality you wonder how any could have missed it beforehand.Those Witches are at it again.
glamourous.In terms of humour, it's up there with the best of the funny Discworld novels.
There are footnotes galore and you really can't get by without wiping laughter tears from your eyes at the sublime and the just plain silly.
Granny Weatherwax first turned up in Equal Rites.” “In Wyrd Sisters she became the unofficial head of a tiny coven consisting of the easy-going, much-married Nanny Ogg and young Magrat...” “It also ended with Magrat reaching a very tentative Understanding…” “This might be love, or the next best thing.”“In Witches Abroad the three witches had to travel halfway across the continent to face down the Godmother...
Each witch takes a different marital path - Granny chooses none, Nanny has multiples, Magrat soon embarks on one - with each path the right way.
Beauty is deceptive on the outside19 December 2013 This book is very, very loosely based upon Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night Dream, and to be honest with you if he had not told me at the beginning of the book and at the end of the book I probably would not have realised it. The reason that I say that is because when I say loosely I mean really loosely. In fact the only thing about the book that seems to be connected to the play is that a group of working class people go a rehearse a play in the
Anyway, when we think of elves we usually think of this:	or this:	when in reality they should more look like this:	Now, Pratchett actually addresses this in his story through the use of this idea called glamour, but also through the idea that our memory usually hides the horrid stuff in our life and replaces it with good and nice stuff.
Now, the idea of beauty is explored in this story, and that is through the concept of glamour.
Percebemos os detalhes da narrativa, os foreshadows que se cumprem lá no fim, os temas, as mensagens profundas disfarçadas de piadas e sátiras com várias convenções da fantasia (e da ficção).Lordes e damas se passa no arco das bruxas, e é preciso ter lido os anteriores para ficar 100% inteirado nos acontecimentos desse volume, que é uma continuação direta.
Diferente da maioria dos livros da série, temos desenvolvimento de personagens — Magrat e a Vovó principalmente, mas também de Ridcully (apesar desse desenvolvimento ser ignorado nos títulos posteriores).A Vovó é uma personagem incrível.
Sobre a tradução, pra mim foi mais um título que deixou a desejar.
Of course not all his characters are heroic, the cowardly magician Rincewind being the notable exception.
Rincewind doesn't make an appearance in this one, although some other wizards do, notably Mustrum Ridcully and the Librarian, who is one of my all time favorite characters in any novel or series I've read.It helps to have read the previous "Witches" Discworld books before reading this one, although I don't think it's completely necessary.One thing about this one though, be prepared to look at those noble, beautiful, good Elves from Middle Earth in a totally different light after reading this one...5 stars from me.
