https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4885209-the-judge
Ellen finds herself judged and treated as an object by the men for whom she works, but has inherited a great capacity for love from her impoverished mother with whom she lives in a tiny dark house.
Marion’s story – of how she was judged and ill used by the small community in which she lived, is told more than half way into the novel – yet it is the memory of this strong and controversial mother and her obsessive like love for her eldest son that pervades this novel.
Mummy's boy gets stabby. Moral of the story - beautiful people are better, except when they're not mumsie.
Impossible to rate. I thought this was a very interesting book although a failure as a novel. It really went off the rails at the end. Knowing a bit about West's life made the characters of Ellen and Marion interesting but as a writer, she really lost control of the material in the last third of the book. I'm not sure I have ever read such beautiful descriptions of the natural world or a more truthful portrayal of the extreme emotions of motherhood.In truth, the book scared me a little.
Somebody else's cup of tea, maybe. Rebelliously feminist for 1922, I suppose, if deliriously dreamy crush diaries may be said to fit in with suffragette boilerplate. But by turns too la-di-dah and then wordily lovey-dovey. Which is where I leave off. And that's right where I left it. See you on the barricades, sis.
This novel is a bit like opera - melodramatic, fatalistic, full of the clashing forces of good and evil.
This novel is about a pair of lovers, Ellen and Richard, who are beautiful, strong, and clear-eyed – except that Richard is in the thrall of his mother, Marion.
The lovers discover each other in Edinburgh, where Ellen lives – and then, when her mother dies, she travels to a small seaside town in England to marry Richard.
West gives many reasons for her acting and thinking as she does.
Her failing, and that of Ellen the youngest character, was that they were mired in romantic thinking (and the restrictions of a sexually repressive society).
Rebecca West keeps having Richard, the Greek god love interest, say how intellectual the Scots are, and Ellen certainly got the most pleasure in life from thought and fantasy.
She also, at the age of 17, 18, 19 didn't know what sex was - not that she hadn't experienced it, but that she didn't know how babies were made, thinking it might involve some kind of tender kiss.
Written in 1922, this book begins optimistically with a young, politically active (women's suffrage) and spirited young Edinburgh woman who falls in love with a loving and wealthy man who appears to rescue her from the clutches of her exploitative employers. But in the second part of the novel the couple travels to the Essex, England childhood home of the gentleman, and it all turns into a gothic novel and a lengthy exposition of the complex and enmeshed mother-son relationship, with our heroine slowly withering into the background.
I want to read a novel by Rebecca West, since I adored Black Lamb and Grey Falcon. This I found free at Gutenberg. I really wonder if it is worth reading...... I would rather try The Return of the Soldier by West. Thist was also the first time I have managed to get a Gutenberg book into my Kindle. YAY!
If it weren't for the subjective depictions of nature which pervaded throughout the book and which served as if an essential foreground on which the main characters' souls were reflected, vaguely, lonely, yet beautifully--- and not to mention the odd quality of the book as a whole-- I was gladly surprised.This read is my first take on Rebecca West. And I must say that I look forward on discovering more of her works in the future.
This book started out as a suffragette's journey and ended up with the most bizarre series of events I can remember. Melodramatic to say the least.I'll enjoy getting in on the Goodreads conversation. West's descriptions of nature are exquisite, though.If I had to give stars it would be 3.5.
I wrote this book down on a list a million years ago and have no idea what this is or what the context is of why I wanted to read it.
Much difficulty with this one but in the end I admire it very much. Still processsing the ending.
This book has the worst excesses of Hardy and D.H. Lawrence without any of their redeeming features.
One of those books where all the problems would be solved if the characters could just get a fricking grip.
