https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/273735.Thidwick_the_Big_Hearted_Moose
Nothing but good can be said about the Dr. Seuss books. Always a great teaching and learning process. The age of this one is a rare gem of a book. I'd like to thank my daughter Jen for the recommendation. 💚
This book is featured on this week's Shabby Sunday @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...Thidwick spends most of his days munching on tender moose-moss, until a Bingle Bug comes along and expects a ride. Of course, Thidwick can’t turn him down and offers him a home on his antlers. Then comes a tree spider, Zinn-a-zu Bird, a squirrel family, and many more creatures expecting a ride. Thidwick’s virtue of kindness takes over. “A host has to put up with all kinds of pests. For a host, above all,
This book is featured on this week's Shabby Sunday @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...Thidwick spends most of his days munching on tender moose-moss, until a Bingle Bug comes along and expects a ride.
Then comes a tree spider, Zinn-a-zu Bird, a squirrel family, and many more creatures expecting a ride.
For a host, above all, must be kind to his guests.”
Thidwick is stuck in a dangerous situation and must go it alone, but his guests don’t want to leave.
Children will ask, “Why did Thidwick toss his antlers with all the creatures still on them?” They’ll learn that kindness can only go so far.
Now, I am an avid fan of Dr. Seuss! This author is a very "Big-Hearted" person because it's what his books tell us..And we are indeed lucky for having the opportunity to read his famous books for children!^^
"Thidwick made his wayletting his horns and guests.He found the kindess in grey,finally,tempting done in bests."
This is such a lovely story about 'big-heartedness' - recommended for children of all ages!
The only thing going through my mind while reading this was: "Why the hell didn't I read anything by Dr. Seuss when I was young?" :/Dr. Seuss's books are insanely cute and smart for the young ones!
They are witty, easy to read, and poetic, let alone the life lessons the carry.This one was really nice.
I'm really impressed by how Dr. Seuss can use fictional characters, let those be animals or even creatures from his imagination, to tell a realistic story with a sold lesson.I shall read such stories to my kids one day.
I have mixed feelings about this book. It definitely sends a dramatic message about not taking advantage of people's kindness, but what does it really teach kids about standing up for themselves?
Of course, this is the sort of book that will be looked at and read by children many times.
They will eventually get it so no harm done by a few big words.The rhyming and illustrations are superb as always with a Seuss book.
I finished though and I'm glad I did.Thidwick is wise, but he pretends to suffer because he knows his cute irascibility will delight the kids.
Patience can go only so far.I have read other books by this author and will continue until I've read all of his works.
An amusing tale of a kind moose who lets a number of animals build their homes on his horns to disastrous ends. Has the message to not let people take advantage of you. Great end to the story! Loved it! Really felt for Thidwick the moose!
This book should be called Thidwick: The Passive-Aggressive Moose.
This is the story of Thidwick, a big-hearted and passive-aggressive Moose.
Even worse is when his one of his "guests" puts holes in his antlers and invites a family of squirrels to move in to the holes.
Finally, he feels so weighed down by the creatures living in his antlers, that he can't run from the twelve hunters shooting and chasing him.
The story ends with Thidwick escaping the hunters but all the animals living in his antlers ending up stuffed on a wall at Harvard.
Smaller children might be a bit disturbed by the ending, but “Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose” is still one of Dr. Seuss’ most beloved classics.
Dr. Seuss’ writing is awesome as he uses a rhyming prose to tell the story about the good-hearted moose, which makes this story extremely creative to read for small children.
“Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose” is a great cautionary tale about the consequences being a rude guest to someone who is kind-hearted and how one must stand up for themselves whenever people get too rude towards you.
In the book, the moose named Thidwick lets a bug hop a ride on his antlers.
Shortly after the bug hitched a ride several other animals hopped on his antlers.
Poor Thidwick is stuck in a situation because he was so kind and hospitable he let all the animals live as guest on his antlers.
I think this would be a great book to use to teach children that it is important that we are kind and nice to each other but be sure to stick up for yourself when you are feeling like someone is taking advantage of your kindness.
Dr. Seuss never disappoints.
In this lesser-known tale, Thidwick is too nice to say no to all the bugs and animals that want to live in his antlers.
But this has some serious consequences, like not being able to get to the moose moss he needs to survive.
And then some hunters from the Harvard Club come after him shooting guns!
This is getting real.
Luckily, Thidwick teaches us all a lesson that moose shed their antlers once a year, and the hunters kill all the animals nesting in his antlers instead.
A little grisly for Seuss, but I like it.
I found this quite difficult to read, some real tongue twisters in it, Moose-moss was mentioned a number of times and I said something different each time. Thidwick is one of those who always gets taken advantage off and do feel sorry for him.I do have a question for all you moose experts out there; Does a moose lose it's horns each year? Cos Dr. Seuss seems to think they do.
Apparently every year, a moose will lose his horns so that way new antlers can grow and when he comprehends that thought, he removes his antlers making the animals fly towards the hunters and they get killed and stuffed while Thidwick joins the rest of the herd.I thought the storyline was brilliant and not your typical story.
I was slowly developing sad emotions because I thought they were going to kill the moose and have Dr. Seuss deal with that message but I realize Dr. Seuss doesn't bring death or violence in his children's book but still that ending caught me by surprise.
http://youtu.be/y7U4bsSUgC8Calm down Wally. Isn't it great having a book read out loud. Such a lovely rhyming story about a member of the SERIAL KILLER breed.hahThe moral of the story? Be wary of those that take undue advantage of your kindness, they can become a burden so shake your antlers free once in a while.Esther, you should read on youtube for us.
As a lifelong Dr. Seuss fan (and having been obsessed with moose as a child), I can't believe it took me until now to read this one!
Seuss seems also to have exercised some relative restraint in making up his own words for this book, which I don't consider a positive or a negative, but that may draw in those readers who have been turned off by Seuss'--ahem--inventiveness.
If you enjoy Dr. Seuss but haven't dabbled much beyond his more well-known books, give this one a try!
It might be cause i'm currently emotionally compromised, but i cried for thidwick at one point!! 😅😅
Thidwick the moose is happy to give a ride on his horns to a little bug who asks nicely.
And the spider who asks the bug if he thinks the moose would mind if he rode along, too?
Before long, poor Thidwick's horns are home to so many animals that he is carrying around 500 pounds of extra weight made up of ungrateful, rude boarders who do not see him as a big-hearted moose but as an unfair landlord.
Thidwick, is a moose who is taken advantage of by every animal imaginable as they move in to their new home (Thidwick's antlers).
Soon it becomes a terrible problem for Thidwick, but he doesn't want to send his "guests away" even when it means he can't follow the herd and he must face starvation.
The moral is your problems will take care of themselves?
The final page shows the antlers mounted on a wall of the hunters with all the guests (animals) now dead and stuffed while Thidwick trots happily off to his friends.
I would hope for a better moral for a children's story.
Thidwick the Moose allows a Bingle Bug to make itself at home in his antlers.
Before long, a whole collection of creatures take up residence in his antlers causing Thidwick a great amount of discomfort and danger.
In the end, he sheds his antlers and rids himself of his rude houseguests.I liked the twist that involves Thidwick shedding his antlers.
It comes at just the right point in the story as Thidwick's future looks hopeless with all of this animals atop his head.
Though it is lengthy, this is one of Seuss's better read aloud titles, especially for upper elementary school grades.
What a wonderful lesson.
Very funny and cute!
The horrifying perils of politeness and thoughtfulness will keep you up at night.
And others will point to the fear the other moose have about the denizens of Thidwick's antlers.I would have elementary students read it and discuss; but if you do talk about it with a preschooler, you'll have to be prepared, as some say, for the kid to say Thidwick was justified and the animals in his antlers deserved what they got.My take is that hospitality is full of risk, and sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, but it's still important all the same.
A question for kids: when Thidwick's antlers grow back in the spring, what will he do when animals want to ride on them?
Dr. Seuss often writes silly rhyming stories with serious lessons, and Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose is no exception.
Some other of Seuss’ classics feature themes of kindness, but the glory of Thidwick is that this big hearted moose teaches kids that even good things can turn harmful when there is too much of it.
The reader learns along with Thidwick that it is good to be kind and courteous to others, but it is important to learn to say no when this kindness would cause harm to yourself.
Though the lessons are important and serious, Dr. Seuss reveals them skillfully with playful illustrations, silly rhymes, and a heartwarming moose.
Good deeds and helping each other out is a great thing to aspire to, but there are limits to generosity set by the greed of the recipients and the means of the host.
Seuss explores this complicated theme in this ingenious moral fable starring Thidwick, the big-hearted moose, who in a moment of kindness offers a ride to a fellow forest denizen and winds up playing unwilling host to a multitude of critters by the end of the tale.
Seuss tackles a lot of tricky themes, of course, but his tone is less than conciliatory when the unwanted house(antler)-guests wind up the trophies of the Harvard hunting club instead of Thidwick.
Thidwick The Big Hearted Moose begins as the cute story of a kind moose who willingly shares his antlers with a Bingle Bug. Unfortunately, more and more and more bugs, birds and animals also move in until it causes great problems for Thidwick.
He is shunned, by his friends, unable to travel to necessary food and is finally shot at by hunters.
This is a cute story about being generous and also about taking advantage of the generosity of others and could be used in discussions of these qualities.
Poor Thidwick is such a "big-hearted" moose that he lets one animal after another settle in his antlers.
However, he feels that he must be a kind and gracious host and doesn't set any limits or rules.
I think I would like it better if Thidwick was called an unwise moose or a pushover or something similar...because to me it implies that being big-hearted or kind means you allow others to stomp all over you.
I disagree with that mindset....being kind and big-hearted, in my view, actually takes strength and courage as you set limits but seek to help others.
Another great story from Dr. Seuss.
This pushover of a moose lets whoever wants to live on his antlers.
In standard Dr. Seuss fashion, things get carried away and he ends up carrying about a dozen critters on his head.
He can barely walk, but when hunters find him, the birds nesting on his head fly him to safety.
I don't think anyone in this story learned anything.
The moose still doesn't have a backbone, and the critters still think its ok to crash anyone's antlers they want.
They probably feel even more entitled to stay there, now that they saved Thidwick's life.
