https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4922079-one-second-after
Every important adult male character is either military or ex-military.
As others have pointed out, the author doesn't know the difference between of and have.3.
Most of the scenes are meetings or speeches, usually with the main character dominating the discussion with his references to military history.
Rather than showing us the hoards of refugees storming the city gates or the plague wiping hundreds out within a month, it's discussed in the past tense at a meeting of city leaders amid lengthy asides about the main character either thinking about smoking or lighting one up.
The preposterous outcomes - say what you like about lazy, dependent Americans, but I refuse to believe that a power outage, even on a national scale, would cause this kind of devastation in such a short amount of time.
I'm sure there are people in the world who would love to get 1200 calories a day.At some point, the lady character who's there to be a sexual foil for our boy John tells him, "I feel like I'm in some bad novel." In my library copy someone wrote an asterisk next to this & at the bottom of the page wrote "You are." Note: do not write in your library book.
I wanted to learn.Oddly, the premise of this book - an EMP (electro magnetic pulse) shutting down the world's grid - came to my reality when all the high power solar flares were coming towards earth in early March 2012.
Coming off a 20+ year stint as a far left liberal with a narrow tolerance for the right, I really appreciated an inside look.
This book opened my eyes and presented me with an inside look at the conservative camp.
All empires come to an end and America is doing its level best to be next.I purposely read this book to learn how life without a centralized structure may look.
The author then demonstrates in blunt and terrible fashion what this means: within a few days people are starving, the seriously ill are dying and law and order has collapsed, and it just gets worse from there.
The author is conservative and pro-military, so much so that theme gets tedious.
A re-occurring theme is the statement, “We are still Americans” and what this means when people are starving and martial law is enacted and bands of blood thirsty gangs are roaming the streets – only a few weeks into the catastrophe.
Forstchen asks some difficult questions and requires the reader to take a serious look at who we are.
The writing style is tedious and lazy -- how many times were the character's responses to a conversation "what?" or "damn?" But what I find most disturbing are (1) the delusions of grandeur evident in the introduction and postscript, (2) the obvious parallels between the author's real-life ego and the book's protagonist, and (3) the complete lack of introspection the characters have about their actions.How many days into the blackout did the town folk suggest that they should perform a summary execution for looting?
My poor heartstrings too, I felt so strongly for the characters!I did feel a little disappointed when some of the action was skipped over and happened behind the scenes.
Felt a little cheated a couple of times when this happened, but overall I was really captivated.I think that with listening to the audiobook I didn't pick up on as many grammatical errors than others did when reading the physical book.
The errors would make more sense if the book was in first-person, but this was written in third-person.
If the following bit of dialogue turns you off, please don't attempt to read this book:"Charlie, Americans were so damn unprepared...we spent a helluva lot of time wringing out hands about global warming and that wasn't even true.
It reminds me of the Civil War. Also that movie, Independence Day," John interjected coldly.Okay, no one says that, exactly.
There are parts of the book I enjoyed, such as the conference scenes, where the town leaders take turns laying out problems and discussing possible solutions.
It gets tiring.I guess that puts this book squarely in the “not recommended” category, unless you still have a substantial Y2K stash that you’d like to justify to yourself.
As much as I like post-apocalyptic novels, zombies, aliens, and supernatural horrors are entertaining but not scary, because we know those types of end-of-the-world scenarios are not going to happen.One Second After manages to be scary because it sounds very plausible.
And if something happens to disrupt electricity, food, and water, for days, weeks, or months, it will get very, very ugly, and that's the more convincing message this book gets across.The main character, John Matherson, is a history professor and former Army officer.
Forstchen started with a fantastic premise, but unfortunately the book failed to live up to the idea.
Also, the characters were almost insufferable.
John was described as an average Joe, but he came across more like a character out of a Die Hard movie.
The feminist in me was livid - women in the book were either 1) damsels in distress; 2) nurturers and caregivers; or 3) incompetent, crying weaklings.
I'm glad I now know a little about EMPs, but otherwise, this book was a loss.
Other post-apocalyptic books do a far better job of imagining a future reality and tapping into the humanity or lack thereof in an annihilated society (see The Road).
Do you rate a book only on the quality of the writing or on how it makes you think after you finish?
There is no warning, no preparation for the attack, in the blink of an eye all things digital go out of existence.
And it is completely feasible for an attack like this to happen with absolutely no warning.
We are so dependent now on computers and digital machines, we simply have no conception of life without.
This is a book that will make you wonder how you would handle things if it happens.
Author's mission accomplished.From a literary point of view, this scenario could have been rendered as a gripping human interest story in microcosm, but instead the author dissipates the force of the story with (as Publisher's Weekly pointed out in its review) an increasing foray into jingoism, particularly near the end of the novel, and a reliance on pointing out repeatedly which feature films present the suggested ambience for given passages.
An essay on everything our society would deal with in a post-apocalyptic scenario2.
How a small community in North Carolina deals with that post-apocalyptic scenario.The detail from the "essay" is well researched and thoroughly broken down into a plethora of possibilities.
Every element is terrifying and it is amazing how we are only the loss of a few resources we count on every day before we could be back in the dark ages - it is quite scary!The stories surrounding the community are quite sad, often inspiring, and sometimes terrifying.
Normal people asked to step up and go above and beyond.
Desperate people giving into criminal tendencies and maniacs setting up Mad Max-esque posses to destroy everything in their path.
Informative.Apocalyptic thriller chaos and death. Has many good information about what to do. If this series was a movie for TV, maybe more people will watch and learn something. Newton Gingrich wrote the forward, government, especially this one won't do anything to prepare for a EMT attack.
This is a piece of propoganda aimed at lobbying people to take precautions against an EMP attack.---spoilers below:----This is the story of a man living in a small town in NC with his family when an electromagnetic pulse attack transforms the USA into a postapocalyptic country.That said, here are my issues with the book:-While there are plenty of female characters, we never see male characters suffering.
He even goes so far as to taking something the Andean plane crash survivors used to comfort themselves -- likening their dead colleagues' flesh to that of Jesus, giving them a sacramental new life -- and using those words to fault killer-cult leaders, who in the book use religion to mislead people into killing and eating others.
Mixed results in some ways, but overall this is an important book.Numerous grammatical errors.
Alas Babylon is better narrative, even though a bit dated.Decent story line!Very interesting and compelling idea on the EMP.
All that complaining aside, this is still quite an interesting book, including some very gripping battle scenes, and I am glad I am taking the time to read it.
I ~do~ recommend reading this to any American.
What erases the complaints is a compelling story that could come true in spades.Now that I am fully through the book, this really is an excellent story, despite the noted flaws.
Alas, Babylon has been updated for the new millennium with this novel. I strongly recommend reading this from a quite realistic 'what if' scenario. It was a 'read in one sitting' novel, well crafted technical thriller around a significantly under-rated national risk. The author clearly put a great deal of personal passion into the novel, which shows through in the writing quality and intensity of characterization.
He effectively loots a majority of the insulin available in his little town for his own type-1 diabetic daughter, and then coldly agrees to triage out everyone else who only lives at the mercy of our advance medical technology (which mind you, we should feel guilty for taking advantage of..."America is like an exotic hothouse plant.
That's where you say that you're referencing Source A, in this case Alas Babylon, while in fact taking from Source B whole hog, in this case The Stand, which suddenly explains why this book consists of endless meetings about restructuring society.
Perhaps this novel could be made into a drinking game.
Whenever any character talks about “being Americans” or breaks into patriotic song, take a drink.
Sadly, this is in line with how most women are viewed in this book; there are some strong women but most are in caregiver roles while the men make the decisions and do their best to save the day.
The writing itself falls into almost 100% exposition during the last half of the novel, and characters are quickly disposed of in a sentence or two.
Thanks for the EMP information, but the "fictional" parts of this fiction book were sadly lacking.
Good, scary and heartbreaking. I really enjoyed it, it reminded me of The Stand.*BUT WHAT'S THE DEAL WITH ALL THE SHOULD OFs AND WOULD OFs?!*And there were just too many "We are all Americans", "This is still America, for God's sake".*Other than that, absolutely lovely.
It was easy enough to read, but huge sections of the book seemed to be dedicated to the protagonist explaining things to the other, poorly defined characters.
This would be fine, but at no point in the novel does he, or anyone else, ever realize that he has this character flaw.
Life as they know it is obliterated and we get, maybe, three scenes in the entire book where the guy actually sits down to see how his kids are doing with the apocalypse.Third: Other then the protagonist, no other character in the book seems to have any personality or opinions of their own.
Although fiction, this book is a very believable & terrifying account of how life continues and changes after an Electric Magnetic Pulse (EMP) weapon is set off over the USA.
According to the forward, this weapon actually does exist and destroys all things run by electricity which makes the story all the more frightening.
For me, just knowing that this weapon is a reality and could be used against our country or any other was as frightening as any horror novel I've read.
This is one of those books that stayed with me and made me think for quite some time....could I be a survivor or more to the point...would I even want to be?
Even I do & I'm far more aware than most about where my food & the other products I use come from & how they get to me.And that brings us to the meat of this book.
And people get hungry?This book does a fantastic job of looking at the extreme side of an EMP event that knocks out all electrical power & newer technology.
You'll see that we're not quite as likely to have such a catastrophic event as depicted in this book & touted by Newt, but that's not to say this is completely off base.
From this small town we see what happens when people are stranded, the food and medical supply chains disintegrate, and communities have to re-organize to feed and protect themselves.The breakdown of society is terrifying.
Lawlessness from people who are desperate to survive requires martial law and citizen tribunals, sometimes requiring death penalties.The chilling thing is that the EMP scenario is well known and understood, but there has been no formal preparation.
It sure scared this white lady!Like Cassandra I am now warning everyone about the vulnerability of this country to the devastation of an EMP attack and the need to prepare basic survival stores.
Characters talking, no object, subject or verb, no action either damn it.
Just prepositional phrases and run-on sentences in abundance, not an editor in the damn place, needed a cigarette to get through the pain, eleven left.
So much talk about cigarettes, maybe underwritten by Phillip Morris.
Wish I could find a damn complete sentence without thinking back to other books, other times, but now gone."Darn it!" I said sharply as I realized I'd spent $17.00 on this book."Honey, it will OK, we are still Americans, aren't we?" my husband said softly."We better damn well hope so.
Eye roll after eye roll.
Read this because of its interesting premise and its location in Western NC.
Mistake.
Only the author's military characters are portrayed positively, women and "hippies" are described as basically worthless human beings, the main character is a hypocrite of the highest order, almost the entire book plays out in conversations between military characters (classic "telling, not showing" writing mistake), and there's no attempt at character development whatsoever in an end of the world scenario (a ridiculously difficult error to make).
"One Second After" is a pro-military propaganda piece thinly veiled as fiction, nothing more.
Sad I took the time to read it.
Interesting speculation on an instant low-tech future. Very sympathetic characters. Assumes the coalescence of rather large political groups in the immediate wake of disaster in contrast to some kind of organic growth of smaller primary loyalty groups. Assumes the continuity of nation-states... Treatment of the die-off is enlightening; it suggests we don't have a healthcare problem, just a deathcare problem: lots of nonviable people if we are plunged back into the past technology-wise.
Some books get a 5***** rating due to their shear literary greatness, others because they are genre leaders, but the book One Second After gets my 5***** rating due to the sheer realism of the book, and the extremely possible doomsday scenario it sets forth.
No matter which way it comes, it is lethal to any country and any countries way of life.Not much of a doomsday/suvivalist lit guy, but this book was a way too powerful wake up call about the dangers we face in our modern electronic driven world.
Our grandparents and great grandparents faced the hardships we would now encounter, but had a better infrastructure and ability to live without an electricity driven society.
It doesn't seem to have any new ideas in it and it definitely doesn't present the post-nuclear attack scenario in any way that it hasn't been done before.
In the case of this book, the nuclear attack is one that is focused high enough to do no damage to people or land.
How a community reacts when being cut off from the rest of the world has been handled far better in other novels, most notable Alas, Babylon by Pat Frank.
In fact, One Second After just seemed to be a re-hash of Alas, Babylon with an EMP attack instead of nuclear war.
I updated my status on this book yesterday to say I was pretty sure it was never going to end, but I can say it finally did.
Really, this book could have been so much more interesting than it was.
But… the author chose the wrong protagonist (an ex-military, very articulate and physically capable university professor?
I could easily believe in the decisions that the town’s leadership made.
I could also believe in the depicted actions of the military and government.
I don’t understand how such simple things can slip by.A couple of times this book was compared to Alas, Babylon.
OK, here is why I loathe, detest, condemn, curse this dopey book - the main character has the only driving car in the town and he is the only person in his town to understand the magnitude of the EMP.
Anyway, the main character saunters to the head of the long line waiting to get medication and proceeds to harangue one of the pharmacists to give him an excessive supply of insulin for his daughter.
While I'm reading this part of the story, I kept wondering why the character didn't get up to the nursing home days before to retrieve his father in law and to offer assistance to the staff.
