https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45287.Poetry_and_Prose
I'm reminded of Michelangelo's Medici Tombs in Florence, whose female nudes have been criticized as too male, their musculature wrong, their breasts appended almost as an afterthought.Specimen Days begins with an overview of both the paternal and maternal branches of his family and their lives on Long Island, New York, in the early 1800s.
I've read only half of Specimen Days, in which everything seems to work.
After the war, Whitman stayed in Washington to work in the Office of the Attorney General in 1866 and '67 and, he says, "for some time afterward." In February 1873 he's stricken with a "paralysis" that sounds like stroke.
This time I reread only Leaves of Grass.
I've read it many times, returning to it because I find it comforting and reassuring.
Reading him makes me want to swagger outside and bundle up the morning and throw it over my shoulder.And this time I'm reading only the 1855 edition of Leaves of Grass, influenced by the recent critical study by C.
K. Williams which convincingly argues that the 1855 edition, the original, was the strongest and that the poetry Whitman added in subsequent years was weaker, therefore weakening the entire book.
It began with a prose preface that was moderately interesting, although I liked the poetry better.
I like the roll and movement of Whitman’s verse, the accumulating substance of his images.
How this country has changed.This poetry importantly leads to the freeing up of language, the freeing of thought and conversation.
Henceforth poetry can be all-inclusive, no holds or subjects barred.
Subsequent American verse is unthinkable without reference to Whitman, and countless examples of his influence could be given.
For example, I can hear Whitman in Carl Sandburg’s poetry.
I've gotten more pleasure over the years from Walt Whitman's luscious, astonishing, fresh, earthy-yet-visionary, life-affirming poetry than from any other book, I think. I just keep coming back to this lover of all the world.
What makes this edition of Library of America Editions valuable is that they have reprinted the original versions in the front and the reworked and expanded versions which is about 2/3 of the anthology. I hadn't realised that Whitman had revised as much as he did.A must own.
It is the only edition you will ever need.
Keep it near at all times.O me!
O life .
of the questions of these recurring; Of the endless trains of the faithless—of cities fill’d with the foolish; Of myself forever reproaching myself, (for who more foolish than I, and who more faithless?) Of eyes that vainly crave the light—of the objects mean—of the struggle ever renew’d; Of the poor results of all—of the plodding and sordid crowds I see around me;Of the empty and useless years of the rest—with the rest me intertwined; The question, O me!
so sad, recurring—What good amid these, O me, O life?
Answer.That you are here—that life exists, and identity; That the powerful play goes on, and you will contribute a verse.
This work has a lot more of Whitman than one is traditionally exposed to in high school. There are poems about masturbation, about homosexuality, about sexuality. There are also early works celebrating New York, the everyman, and of course Lincoln. Informative essays in the back of the work flesh out the historical background.
"Song of Myself" and "Children of Adam" and many others are truly great, original poetry, sprung from the beautiful and powerful spirit of Whitman, with his profound experience of nature and of life.
I think he exemplifies the poet as a great person in life.My edition was the Library of America, which had the 1855 version of Leaves of Grass and then the final one, and then all of Whitman's prose that he wished to keep after his death.
Whitman is a "monstrous genius", a true great, and pioneer in literature.
These sections are uneven – as is much Whitman poetry – with great poems like By the Bivouac’s Fitful Flame and Cavalry Crosssing a Ford and When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed, and some less than great First O Songs for a Prelude and Song of the Banner at Daybreak.
(Any Whitman poem with a child and father is usually pretty bad.) (5/12) The Library of America collection is, as typically the case, an outstanding collection.
I wish, however, that they had just included the poetry and added more endnotes.
In a poem such as, "I Hear America Singing" the reader envisions a country of people working for the greater good of mankind.
In simple, uncomplicated words, he records the voices of the people that create the chorus that is America's strength- the carpenter at work, the young mother - each one with their own song, adding their own, strong, voices to the whole that is America.
It is short, simple, and strong, just as it describes the simple and strong voices of the workers and individuals that create the voice of America's 'song'.
To be honest, it might have been seeing Leaves of Grass in Breaking Bad that reminded me how much that book, as it does in the show, heads to TRUTH.
Maybe Truths.
But if any artist can lay claim to have spoken the TRUTH, it's Whitman.
I can't imagine American poetry without Whitman.
But I don't think it's wrong to say that Whitman gave us the right to speak our own language.
I didn't necessarily NEED both versions of Leaves of Grass that are contained in this volume, but I wanted a hardcover Whitman which would last me forever.
Ironically, although I had known of Whitman for a long time, my first real taste of him came through HBO's Season II, Episode 3, when his poem was read at a funeral (portions in square brackets below were not used in the show): I depart as air, I shake my white locks at the runaway sun,  [ I effuse my flesh in eddies, and drift it in lacy jags.
] I bequeath myself to the dirt to grow from the grass I love,  If you want me again look for me under your boot-soles.
And I must have read it a few times now.
Upon first reading Walt Whitman, I detested his style.
I re-read the poem with an invigorated energy and was rewarded immensely.
Whitman is a genius, one of the best poets, if not the best America has produced.
His poems are hymns to America, to the self, to humanity, to democracy; his poetry is web of energetic, profound, free-flowing verses that will captivate you.
If you don't like Whitman, give him a second shot, but make sure you're in the right mood.On a separate note, this edition is beautiful and durable, plus it also contains some of his prose, which unfortunately I haven't had the time to read.
All that I can say as-to my own feelings regarding his work:I deeply believe that most modern poetry, in fact, as suggested by many scholars, is (at-least-in-part) in the 'Whitman voice,' with a few notable exceptions(Plath being one).I think Leaves of grass was a breakthrough in poetry.
I believe that it was such a breakthrough that in terms of structure and formula that it's hard to get away from.
I come back to this book for study, and quite a bit.
I deeply respect the work, even though I don't like it.
I hope there is another Walt Whitman to come along, and relatively soon.
There's a Whitman program on KCTS right now, and I'm reminded of how much I love this book.
My girlfriend gave me this book back in high school, then part of the new Library of America series.
At that time it was an attempt to express the spiralling ecstasies and wonders of a very romantic first love.
Over the years, this same volume has resurfaced every so often, each time showing a different aspect, a new refraction.
There are favorite, cherished books that feel like friends and family; for me Whitman's words will always feel like a lost lover, or mother, or myself.
There are absolutely not enough words with enough quantitative meaning between humans to express how
For some reason, I've never gotten around to reading Whitman. All I can say is, What a Discovery! I had the impression that Whitman was an egomaniac in extremis. On the surface, he comes close to that in "Song of Myself." But on many re-readings, I think the "energy" you see in that particular poem is more a sense of urgency in his poetic voice. I can't go into detail about the rest of his oeuvre, but I'll be returning time and again to many of his poems.
Whitman's poetry cannot be denied. Yet it's diminished by his acceptance of slavery and genocide of native Americans as necessary evils.
A great American voice, from the complexities of Song of Myself to the simplicity of The Last Invocation.
I cherish this book. If I had to choose only one book to read for the rest of life, this might be the one I would choose.
in much of his writings about the people, whitman almost sounds like a marxistthe early fiction here is terrible.
its interesting that whitman didnt appear to write fiction after the early 1850s - he probably knew it wasn't his strong pointits also interesting to see the literature he name drops.
his views on american literature are what you'd expect of the time - a feeling of insecurity in that the country had just been established and trying to find his own voice.
WHAT HAS THIS AGE TO DO WITH THEM?Two galvanized old men, close on the summons to depart this life, their early contemporaries long since gone, only they two left, relics and proofs of the little political bargains, chances, combinations, resentments of a past age, having nothing in common with the age, standing for the first crop of political graves and grave-stones planted in These States, but in no sort standing for the lusty young growth of the modern times of The States.
"The poems distilled from other poems will probably pass away.
The coward will surely pass away.
they fall in their place and do their work.
The soul of the nation also does its work.
No disguise can pass on it .
no disguise can conceal from it.
Only toward as good as itself and toward the like of itself will it advance half-way.
The soul of the largest and wealthiest and proudest nation may well go half-way to meet that of its poets.
The proof of a poet is that his country absorbs him as affectionately as he has absorbed it."
I have attempted on several occasions to read Whitman, only to fail.
This time, I succeeded.
I suspect that has much to do with our current political situation (the Trump debacle) as anything else.
Whitman's overwhelming positivity and cheerleading for the Democratic experiment was precisely what i needed at this time; a reminder that we once nearly destroyed the country in a war of secession, and were surrounded by pandering and incompetent politicians as well as great ones.
If you're looking for something bright and shining to remind you that progress isn't always easy, this book may well be it.
The second poet featured in my English course this semester. "Song of Myself," "I Sing the Body Electric," "Native Moments," and "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" will be close to my heart forever. I leave you with his most vows-worthy lines (of which there are many): "...I will be your poet, / I will be more to you than to any of the rest."
I also have a 1931 edition of Leaves of Grass that's pretty bitchin'. That's where I read it for the first time. Still need to go through this collection and reread though.8/18/08: Reading Specimen Days now. It's great.02/28/10: And my 2-month immersion into Whitman, Dickinson, Emerson, Melville, etc begins tomorrow. Bon voyage!
Whitman is at his best when he makes his point, and SHUTS UP. But most of the time he doesn't. It's like he thinks, "That's well done! Let me say it again with different words." Pretty soon I am just reading and not absorbing anything he is saying. Sure, a few poems stick with you, but mostly he just makes white noise.
I own the LOA hardcover edition of this; I'm sure the paperback is identical, or close enough to it. Ideal for the reader who's new to the universe of perception and beauty that is Whitman. Look at all the 5-star ratings given here! That should tell you something. Lie down in "Leaves of Grass" -- you'll never be the same. A book for everyone alive, for all time.
Completed reading the works of Walt Whitman... Really enjoyed it! Very impressed with his work, particularly the gender and race equality expressed, love of the outdoors, first hand accounts of travel, Nature, Politics, Civil War... and finally the way he refers to "you the reader."
As Ralph Waldo Emerson is the essayist of America's literature, so Whitman is its poet. Who can deny the delight of crafts like "the transparent green-shine" and "[I] am not contain'd between my hat and boots"?
