https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184803.The_Keys_of_the_Kingdom
There are books that one LIKES to read for light fun and escape, then there are books one SHOULD read because they make one stretch and become a better person. This book falls into the "should read" category.A deep, moving, beautifully written book. It is pretty heavy but in a good way. I found I could read for awhile and absolutely love it but would have to take breaks, then come back for more. It takes time and thought to ingest the messages being taught in the story.
A colleague and friend recently reminded me of the movie of this book in 1944 that starred Gregory Peck.
It got me to thinking that it has been easily forty years since I read any A.J. Cronin.Loyola Press is to be commended for including this novel by A.J. Cronin in its list of Loyola Classics.
3.5 αστερια.
This is probably the most significant book I've ever read.
It has shaped who I am and how I approach life more than any other book.
I have a very old copy from my grandmother that I reread whenever I feel the need to do a little soul searching.The book description doesn't do it justice.
It is not, not, not a book that tries to convert you to any particular religious belief (the main character is a priest, but his best friend is an atheist, and the main character is sure that there are Buddists in heaven).
He's saying, I think this is the only way to show love to others, therefore...It's a heavy book, but it's wonderful.
Why did it have to end?!
he had been wounded, but he stayed humble, to the end, a pure spirit who always gives and never waits for anything in return..
This was a little resumé, a lot of things happened, the kinda stuff that gets you glued to the book, yes, this is the kinda books you cannot put down, I remember my sister suggesting it, I started it few years ago but left it after few pages..
one thing is sure, I almost missed one of the best books I've ever read!
I read this a long time ago and rediscovered this recently. A Catholic priest thinks he has not done anything to really make a difference in the world but the story tells of the things he has done that have changed people's lives. Read it if you are ever feeling discouraged or unappreciated!
Vidi il film con un indimenticabile Gregory Peck, tanti anni fa, forse il 1969, e portavo ancora i pantaloni corti. Mi piacque molto e devo dire che faceva giustizia al libro che ho letto solo molti anni dopo, occasionalmente capitatomi in mano. Di grande respiro, profondamente spirituale e umano, il libro andrebbe letto e meditato anche e forse proprio nel nostro tempo. "Non pensate che il paradiso sia nel cielo, è nel cavo della vostra mano, è dovunque e non importa dove..."
"Have a heart that never hardens, and a temper that never tires and a touch that never hurts" - Charles DickensNot sure if Dickens had written a prelude to Father Francis Chisholm's character, but this quote symbolises what the protagonist in A.J.Cronin's beautifully written novel "Keys of the Kingdom" stood for.This proved to be one of the most un-putdownable non-mystery/thriller books for me.
It chronicles the life of Father Francis Chisholm right from his young days in Scotland to his years as an unconventional Catholic priest who struggles to setup a mission in China.
I was ready for a book recommended for "innate goodness" and this worked!
I felt at the beginning like I was revisiting Dicken's young Pip or David Copperfield.
The setting and background were stark and the people indigent, but the trials and tribulations forged a most forgiving and sensitive main character.
His religion was not based on dogma but rather on humility, kindness and a belief that you can look for and find good in diverse places and with diverse people.
He would be just as likely to quote Buddha as St. Paul.
My rating: 3,5 starsEven if this book is another masterpiece written by the Scottish writer AJ Cronin, my favorite book still remains as "The Citadel."4* The Spanish Gardener3* Lady with Carnations5* The Citadel3,5* The Keys of the KingdomTR Hatter’s CastleTR The Stars Look DownTR The Green Years
Grāmatā Kronins vieglā formā atstāsta kāda angļu katoļu garīdznieka Frānsisa Čizema dzīvesgājumu on bērnības līdz pat sirmam vecumam.
Vairāk grāmatā pat ir par autora amata lietu - medicīnu.
Frānsisa dzīve ir kā zebras sāni: melnais mijas ar balto, melnā un pelēkā ir vairāk kā baltā, bet baltais ir kā godalga par sūro darbu un neļauj paklupt un saļimt zem sūrās dzīves nastas.
Grūtības viņu tikai norūda un rada jaunus dzīves izaicinājumus, kas ved pie jaunām uzvarām.
Bet tas prasa tik daudz...Var tikai apskaust Frānsiss mērķtiecību, godīgumu apzinīgumu un godīgu darba tikumu.
Viņš it kā nav negatīvais tēls, bet tomēr viņa dzīvesgājums izvēršas pavisam citādāks nekā Frānsisam.
L'idea alla base de "Le chiavi del regno" di A.J. Cronin, probabilmente il libro più noto di questo grande scrittore scozzese, è quella di raccontarci le vicende di padre Chisholm, prete anticonformista che per tutta la sua travagliata e avventurosa vita cercherà di interpretare (e far interpretare) a suo modo la religione cristiana.
Sono proprio questi aspetti a distanziare i suoi superiori, i quali non riescono a capire perché padre Chisholm non si uniformi a certe "tradizioni" di quella casta di cui fa parte, preferendogli una vita da "ribelle" e da insofferente verso certe facilitazioni.
I loved this book when I first read it back in October 2007. Rereading it eight years later I am somewhat less enamored. It's still an excellent story about an amazingly selfless British priest who serves in China at the beginning of the 20th century. Despite the title and main character, the book is ecumenical, although it does tend to be a bit romantic. Worthwhile read.
Довольно милая история о горестях и тяжелых поворотах судьбы священника, вместе с которым мы проходим длинный путь от детства до самой старости, наблюдая за тем, как вера помогает Фрэнсису выдержать все испытания. Возможно, история была бы более увлекательной, если бы концовка не была столь предсказуемой и слащавой.
I loved this book way more than I thought I would. I'm starting my way through the NYT best seller list through the years and this is the first one for 1942. I wasn't looking forward to it at all. But thank heavens I was wrong. The character descriptions are so good. I felt for all the characters. I suffered with Fathrr Chisholm and I triumphed with him. It also made me do some retrospective thinking about today's Christianity and myself. I truly enjoyed this read
I read this book at 14 so here's my memory:A romantic view of a dedicated man who surrenders everything to serve God (and later be well-played by Gregory Peck).
He goes to China, and is beloved by all but the Mother Superior with whom he serves God. But in the end she has to respect his dedication and integrity.
It was also the perfect way for me to begin to enter the history of China in the early-mid 20th century.I don't remember the prose style, but I read it with ease at 14.
His name is Father Francis Chisholm, a Scottish priest who is somewhat unconventional in his methods.
If I tried to pick out his methods I would say spreading love, and his desire is to establish a mission in China.
As you read through his adventures you see the Chinese people, from the most poor to warlords to the heads of other denominations in China finding this humble man with his kindly and loving ways creating his mission but also establishing a mutual understanding and respect among all with each other.
Please read it, you deserve it.
Commovente,pieno di sani e buoni principi,condanna verso l'ipocrisia,il falso moralismo,l'avidità,l'intolleranza,il razzismo e il fanatismo.Esaltazione del valore sublime dello spirito umano e consapevolezza della sua fragilità.E sopra a tutto la sconfinata fiducia nella inesauribile forza dell'essere umano e l'incrollabile ottimismo in un lieto fine che consola e ripaga la bontà e l'onestà.Beh,che c'è di male in questo?
Nei vecchi romanzi non ci si vergognava ad insegnare il valore dei vecchi e sani principi.
Ora siamo poco avvezzi a queste sviolinate un poco sentimentali e datate,che comunque non fanno che ribadire concetti universali di civiltà e umanità che attualmente sembrano mancare a molti.
Even though I'm not Catholic, I somehow stumbled into the Loyola Classics series, and this novel from that collection made a deep impression on me. The philosophy conveyed is far from dogmatic--in fact, quite the opposite. Father Francis is one of those literary characters who will stay with me in memory just as strongly as people I have known in the "real" world. This narrative of one man's patience, humility, determination, honesty, endurance, compassion, tolerance, commonsense, and courage is, quite simply, inspirational.
This is an older book and as such has some language that is no longer familiar but it is a wonderful story of a Catholic priest who has a difficult childhood but overcomes his trials and becomes a missionary in China. He wins over those around him with his kind heart and service to others. It really is a good read, probably my favorite book by Cronin.
http://youtu.be/OFdaJxkS3Sk5* The Citadel5* Hatter's Castle4* The Green YearsTR The Judas Tree5* The Spanish Gardener3* Adventures Of A Black Bag3* The Keys of the KingdomThe least enjoyable for me so far, probably for all the reasons why others love this one the best.
A moving story, that helps you to grow as a person as you flip each page.Francis Chisholm's life is separated into two parts, it seems to me. There was his happy childhood and the love of his life who could not be his; then on to becoming a dedicated Catholic priest and missionary. “....I must record this inescapable sense of belonging to God, which strikes at me through the darkness, the deep conviction....” I love the details of his life. The story told how he would venture to the church in th
A moving story, that helps you to grow as a person as you flip each page.Francis Chisholm's life is separated into two parts, it seems to me.
There was his happy childhood and the love of his life who could not be his; then on to becoming a dedicated Catholic priest and missionary.
No, he worked hard to save each individual soul, by faith, through God's grace, and with his “good Scot's sense”.
In fact, it's the real ending.Possibly my favorite quote of the whole book, due to the comical reaction I get every time I read it:
Deeply moving and some pretty serious stuff in it at times, all full of heart and inspiring to this reader. I dragged out the last couple chapters because I was so sorry to sense the end of the book coming. I was also finding myself heaving a sigh of relief when it ended. I would sort of like to read more by this author...but not anytime soon.
I enjoyed this book even though it was hard to follow at times -- perhaps because I took so long to read it.
That is a reminder to me that whenever I'm in dire straits, all I have to do is let God know that I need His help.
And who knows?
Perhaps someday I'll travel out of this country for missions purposes because I think Cronin, in some ways, has inspired me to do so.
Cronin kept me interested all the way through with his engaging dialogue and vivid descriptions.
All in all, I'm glad I read the book since it was long but rewarding.

This is a beautiful book in the style of How Green Was My Valley describing the life of a young man growing up in Scotland and becoming a Catholic priest. He is sent to an out-of-the-way town in China under the impression that he is taking over a well-established mission. This book resonated with me because of its Kierkegaardian philosophies about Christianity, and does a great job of taking on the issues of religion vs. morality without being preachy or sentimental. A great read.
I first read this book about 35 years ago and found it just as riveting this 2nd time around. An inspiring novel about a priest's sufferings and struggles in life.
A compelling description of honest spirituality
My beloved grandmother's favourite book - only one reason why I love it :)
Книга розповідає нам історію його життя від самого дитинства.
На жаль, доля священика позначена багатьма болючими втратами, але чистота серця та щира віра в Бога не дають йому зламатися навіть у найважчих обставинах життя.Як персонаж Френсіс дуже симпатичний читачу та своєрідний.
ХХ ст.): надзвичайно харизматичний, відвертий, позбавлений упереджень та бюрократичності, при цьому дуже аскетичний, терпеливий, відкритий для представників інших конфесій та навіть атеїстів.
Відповідно, для церковної верхівки такий священик став дуже "незручним", тож Френсіса буквально заслали з Англії в Китай на довготривалу місіонерську роботу і поспішили про нього забути.Все, що чоловікові довелося пережити у Китаї за довгі роки самовідданого служіння, гідне подиву.
