https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5161.The_Deep_End_of_the_Ocean
Beth Cappadora, excited about her 15-year high school reunion, packs up her three kids (Vincent, 7; Ben, 3; and infant Kerry) and her niece/babysitter and drives from Madison, Wisconsin to the Chicago hotel that's hosting the festivities.
Police, family, and friends search all over for days, but Ben is simply gone.Beth and her husband Pat are shattered by the loss, and their remaining two children suffer from their parents' distraction.
The latter part of the book is especially heart-rending as Ben's 'two families' must cope with everything that's happened.
It's been a while since I first read this but I read it on a trip to visit my mother, finished it at her house and flung it across the room. I left it behind and she read it and called me to berate me for leaving it for her to read! So count this as TWO negative reviews. The climax happens about halfway through the book and then the next 200 or so pages are padding that you end up hating yourself for reading.
1.5 starsI usually compare the book to its film, and almost always the book wins.
NOPE.I've watched the film tons of times, and I loved it, and I cry every single time.
And I adore the characters.The characters here were unlikable, specially Beth Cappadora, the mother.
I didn't like her from the start.
As for the rest, I only liked Vincent/Reese a little.
SPOILERS HERE: Baby boy just knocking on the door like that?
Beth forgiving the crazy lady who took her baby?
So excuse me, but I'll go back to watching the film, curled up in my bed.
4.5 starsI actually read this book 15 years ago when I was pregnant with my daughter. It has stayed with me all these years. I thought it was a great book. Depressing and sad given the subject but very well written and easy to read. I read it very quickly over a couple of days.
just can't read it... hits too close to home for me as a mom (a three year old is kidnapped) I had to read the ending to see if the kid is ever found alive. I tried skimming a few pages, but when I got to the part where they had to identify a small child in the morgue, I put the book down. I just can't do it.yeah, I'm a puss.
This book relies heavily on coincidence, which is usually a sign of bad writing.
In this case, however, the coincidence is more of a result of a "what if" question, rather than a "how can I loop this all together" scenario.
I think its an interesting idea, what happens when the little boy is found, but the bad guys feel like the good guys and the good guys don't feel like anything?
One thing that struck me about this book was how self-centered the main character was.
I can't comprehend what she went through, of course, but on some level it just wasn't about her anymore, I would think.
However, I had to skip to the second half to see for myself, and I read in other reviews that other people did, too.
And that's not what it was at all, so rest assured.The first half of the book is about what happens with a family when their middle child, a three-year-old, is kidnapped.
They're a dysfunctional family either way, and the most interesting question for me that this story raises is whether they would have been like that even if the boy hadn't been kidnapped (and whether the boy wasn't in fact better off having been raised by his kidnappers).
This is quite possibly one of the worst books I have ever read.
It was artistically abysmal and I would not have finished it if it weren't for the library book club I read it for.
It was the type of book that if I was just an emotional girl and not a thinking person I might have really liked and been sucked in by; but, as it stands, I found it unsatisfying and contrived.
Picoult's "My Sister's Keeper" explores similar family dynamic to this book but in a much more effective way.
Avoid this book unless you just want a heaping pile of emotion with no rational thought.
I've read and reread this book a thousand times over. I get lost in the sorrow I feel for this family. Everytime I read this story I feel differently about the choices this family makes. I don't have children so it is hard to imagine the heart break of having one kidnapped. I think it is impossible to not get attached to these characters.
This book was a great idea that could have been executed much better by another writer with more experience in my opinion.
Creates a great sense of deeply felt empathy for certain family members CONS: The main character is so devastated by grief that she comes off as unlikeable, narcissistic and cold.
When complicated scenarios are handled in this manner, it reveals an inability to create a more complete and well formed solution.I would be ambivalent about recommending this to others, but I don’t want to say “steer clear” either as there were some genuine flashes of really excellent writing and storytelling in there.
When Ben, a three year old boy, disappears in a crowded hotel lobby, his family begins to slowly come apart.
Nine years later, the boy is miraculously found and restored to the family, safe and unhurt.
Ben does not remember his birth family.
What and who is "family?" The only parallel I can think of in real life are the cases where a child is given up for adoption and years later the birth parents decide they want the child back.
The author did a pretty fair job of getting into the heads of the Cappadora's as they slowly unravel as a family.
To be honest, I put this book down so many times in the past.
However, as I kept on reading, Beth seemed to actually annoy me rather than gain my sympathy.
Beth was so self centered and self absorbed that she couldn't see that anyone else was suffering beside her.
I decided that I really didn't like her when she was so cold toward her only son Vincent when all that he wanted was a bit of warmth and care from his mother.
I can't seem to get to that triggering point where I'll actually want to flip through the pages.
The Deep End of the Ocean is one of the closest books out there to capturing the harrowing story of a child's disappearance into thin air, but this book doesn't tell the story of the child. It focuses on the child's family, their grief and confusion and guilt, and ultimately their journey through the process.
I've been a quasi member of the birth family for years now, very quasi.Three year old Ben, youngest member of a large Italian family from his father's side and Irish family from his mother's side, disappears from a crowded hotel lobby.
The family is torn apart further.I've noticed a lot of reviewers are critical of Beth, the mother of kidnapped Ben. Want to say, don't judge unless you have been in her shoes.
It took me about 6 years to rebuild the identity and personality I lost when my child died.
But Vincent's problem was guilt, much like his mother.
I saw the movie, starring Michelle Pfeiffer, years ago and always had in the back of my mind that I'd like to read the book.
The first two sections of the story are told from a single point of view and the rest of the book alternates between Beth's (the mother) and her son Vincent's point of view.
That in itself was clever and made the story feel more complete and complex.The characters aren't likeable all the time - just like real people.
I felt sad when that didn't happen and relieved when it did.I recommend this to anyone who wants a story that is challenging and thought provoking.
It can ruin happy families apart, it can ruin marriages..This is what the book is about ,how the disappearance of a child completely changes the family dynamics and the lasting psychological impact of it.This one is quite a tearjerker.
However I have to say I found myself disliking the mother quite a bit especially her selfishness and the way she ignored the other son.However I do realize it her behavior was understandable in the situation.This is a story about how a happy "normal" family can be completely destroyed..how happiness hangs on such a delicate thread, read to break anytime.Overall Haunting, hard-hitting and a heartbreaking novel
Mỗi thời điểm lại thích một bài khác nhau, (mà nhiều lúc không biết là mình thích gì :)) )khó tính đến múc cứ dò dò ở cái playlist mãi để tìm một bài để gán cho nó là "Song of the day", thiếu nước nhái các bạn post lên instagram với hashtag #ootd thôi.
**Có lẽ truyện này sẽ được năm sao nếu như Vincent có được cái kết trọn vẹn hơn, khi biết rằng mình cũng được mẹ yêu thương và là một phần quan trọng không thể thiếu của gia đình.
I suspect that she thinks is demonstrating the opposite, she isn’t.The main character for the first third of the novel is 'the mother' Beth.
She whinges her dysfunctional way through the novel until the last fifty pages, where she suddenly displays a bit of character and backbone which is by then, completely unbelievable.
No other character is in any way convincing “the husband’ is two dimensional, ‘The rebellious son’ is a stereotype which gives the author yet another chance to prove her ability in stereotyping and her conservative opinions.
When reading a book with extreme palatable suspense or adrenalin-evoking action or content, I have to decide whether or not such a book (the story, characters, potential for gaining understanding or knowledge) is worth the risk of igniting an RSD episode that may take days to overcome.In this case, the answer is NO!
And especially not for the main character, Beth, psycho mother of Ben who was as warm as frozen granite.
Really, there wasn't a single character (at least through page 120 where I threw in the towel) I cared one iota about, other than Ben.Overall, too debased, depressing, deranged and dark for me.
This was interesting because the female main character was the mother of Ben the boy who went missing in this book and it showed us the pain she had for losing her son and how her family got torn apart.My favourite quote from the book is "Where's Ben" because it was the quote that really started off the book for me and it made you want to read on to find out where Ben is and what has happened to him.Something new i learned from this book is to always be aware of your family and don't ignore them because one day it could be the last time you ever see them again.A character i found interesting in this book was Beth Cappadora who is also the female main character in this book.I found her interesting because since Ben was lost ( kidnapped ) Beth became a totally different person.
I'm traumatized. Child gets kidnapped. Family completely falls apart & remaining kids are neglected. Everyone is messed up and struggling to live day by day. Fast forward a bunch of years. Older kidnapped kid is found & taken from his not-really family. He doesn't fit in with his real family and everyone is tragically messed up. They work a few things out, but everyone is emotionally scarred and yes, messed up for life. What the heck? Oprah likes her book club to be super duper sad. All the time.
Oprah's Book Club: A mother's 3 year old son was kidnapped while her back was turned checking into a hotel. I related most with the brother that didn't watch his brother like the mother asked. This was the subplot that held the book together. The mother recognizes her lost son 9 years later mowing lawns. He was innocent in the whole thing and it was sad for him to have two families and to feel torn between having to choose between them.
It all began in 2001 I think and since then I have read some of the old ones recommended by her and some of the old ones.
So I have decided to read all the books chosen by her – one after the other.
The beginning came in the form of a dark, depressing and quite a hopeful book called, “The Deep End of the Ocean” by Jacquelyn Mitchard.
While reading the book though, I felt myself grieving with Beth – almost scared to turn the page, to want good things to happen to her and her family.
It was really hard to wrap my head around all the characters and the central story.
However to my surprise, I really enjoyed the novel, it was provocative about a mother losing her absent minded son.
I will admit that I skimmed a lot of irrelevant details but again the central characters stuck out to me.The ending was a huge letdown but that is probably my own fault judging by the pages I skipped.Nevertheless, it was a good novel but I can't really recommend if cause I did not really understand what direction the book was going in.
This book is about a kidnapping. It is told from the mother's point of view and the kidnapped child's brother. The characters really weren't that developed (and for me to notice that is saying something). The plot was predictable and I didn't even like the parents in the story, so I wasn't rooting for them. I only finished the book because I was hoping that something great would happen. It didn't.

The book then follows the family, including extended family as they try to figure out what happened and where Ben has gone.
Also a lot of reviews where the Mother is selfish, but in my opinion I think the author has dealt with this difficult story line really well, no one knows how they would react in this terrible situation, and Beth just completely shuts down, doesn't feel like a mother any more, more of a failure I guess.
As the mother of small children, I didn't think I would have the stomach for the subject matter.
As the product of an Italian-Irish union I found the extended families entirely relatable, and I thought the character of Candy was especially great.
If one of my kids went missing I think I would be personally turning over every rock...at least in the beginning.
I couldn't understand why Beth was not running throughout the hotel screaming Ben's name and running around the nearby streets, instead of slumping into a ball in the lobby.
I was especially moved by the sibling relationship and reminded of how intense and important it is.
Maybe it was that Beth was shallow and so empty inside and that seemed to be her before Ben was kidnapped.
MOM was the adult.
MOM could have held on to him while they checked into the hotel.
Lord knows I have done it enough with my 3 girls.
Then, what a miracle, Ben shows up and is mowing the grass one day and finds out who he is.
Now the boy is torn between the family he knows and the ones who want him back.
Beth seemed to only care that she got him back no matter what damage it caused him.I just really did not like it.
The story centers on a family dealing with the abduction of their three year old son.
The mother sinks into depression and fails to parent her other two children, and, overall, everyone’s life deteriorates.
This is a well-constructed story about the effects a certain tragedy had on one family.
I did have a hard time relating to the main character; it really bothered me that she couldn’t see how much her older son needed her.
The second part of the book and ending were truly excellent, and a testament to parental love.
The ending is full of hope, a definite payoff for the reader.
