https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15534.Question_Quest
The Xanth novels are a quick, fun and funny read. Great starter books for young fantasy readers. There is a ton of them and you can pick up any of them and start. Very recommended
1991 is when I became a Buffalo Bills fan, and started to really like watching football.Five years later would be October 1996; by then I had moved to Madison and enrolled in law school.
This would have been the start of my second year, and would have been about the time my temporary job at the Department of Revenue ended, and I started working at the law firm where Sweetie was a legal secretary.
Xanth #14: Question Quest, by Piers AnthonyThe Good Magician makes an appearance in every Xanth book.
While "Question Quest" starts out with Lacuna, a woman who has passed into middle age and thus has a very boring life, it is actually the story of Good Magician Humfrey.
There she finds Humfrey, who has been sitting in the Demon X (A/N)th's waiting room for 10 years, trying to rescue one of his wives from Hell.I found "Question Quest" to be an excellent history book of Xanth.
Humfrey's over 100 years old, and he's sure packed a lot of living into his century plus of life.
Truthfully I was happy that there was finally some history on Magician Humfrey.
See, in all the previous books, if a character had a question or just wanted a quest, this was the process: go to Humfrey's castle, solve three challenges to get in the castle, ask the question, and get the answer.
Some people like puns, but there is such a thing as DROWNING IN THEM.
And did you know Humfrey had slightly more than five wives?
(Finding Humfrey, however, has been the point of several people's failed quests.) Under the guise of needing a youth potion, a character named Lacuna finally finds him, and we get tons of Xanth history and punny crap.
The puns and reader-submitted ideas started to get really obnoxious in this book.
It's slightly overwhelming in this book, either because of the sheer AMOUNT of fluff (Including pages of loving descriptions of a woman's outfits, and a treacly poem from hell.
I know Anthony has a lot of love for his fans and uses the things they send in with the best of intentions, but come ON) or because this is a super-fast review of the history of the Xanth books, all told from the Good Magician Humphry's point of view.
Fluff and puns are what they're ABOUT.
A lot of previous Xanth ground was covered in this 14th Xanthy novel, but still worthy of a perusal...!
In this story we join Millie the Ghost and the Zombie Master's daughter, Lacuna, of the twins, needs counsel from the Good Magician.
We learn about the grumpy Good Magician from his POV.
We learn about Humphrey's loves, wives, & offspring.
There is a lot of previous characters covered, so a few reads of a few Xanth novels beforehand would help.
Otherwise, most Xanth novels can be read as a stand alone story.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
Gave up two-thirds of the way through. I enjoyed the Xanth series when I was a teenager and I could more easily excuse the sexism, I guess. With so many stellar women writers of fantasy still to be read, I can't stomach the sexism in Piers Anthony anymore and I think this will be my last Xanth novel.
Some times I wonder if there is someone else writing some of these books in this series as it seems just a tad off, this was one of them. It was ok but a bit of a hard slog to get through
I think this is where I quit being amused. Although I would still recommend them to young readers, I wouldn't say they're brilliant, just fun enough for a voracious reader.
I randomly felt an urge to re-read some Xanth books and I remember reading this before, but it's basically the book version of a clip show.
This book is basically a recap of all the other books to date. 1/4 of it was a new story.
oh good god, Piers. I read many of these as a hapless tween so I knew what I was in for, but basically rehashing all the books that came before for the last 3rd of the book? Come on.I don't come to Xanth for this. I come to it for the hilariously overblown misogyny and groan worthy puns. And mostly nostalgia.
Loved this one. Great tale about the good Magician Humfrey (mainly) and a stroll through the history of Xanth... five and a half wives...Wow!!! Oh and we also hear that Jenny Elf is improving. Next....
This was a good story that was the backstory of Humphrey. It was in the same form as the rest of the series with plenty of puns.
This was the first Xanth novel I ever read and it cemented my love of Xanth.
Aleays a silly quick read. Love Xanth stories.
But her answer is in code and Grey is just the apprentice because Good Magician Humphrey disappeared long ago with his 5th wife and son (apparently he went to Hell in a handbasket).
He started surveying the magical talents of the people of Xanth for King Ebnez and was helped by a demoness with a soul, Dana.
Many children from all over, many adventures, he trained some magicians and sorcerors and helped them discover their talents and went on a quest to discover the source of magic (the demon Xan\t\h) and met the Gorgon who eventually came to him at his castle again and became wife #5.
It tells Humphrey's life story and a lot of the history of Xanth (I especially like the reveals of who was King before The Storm King in book 1 and how the Storm King came to power).
But most of the time the story seems to just serve that purpose, to fill in history that Piers knew but we didn't.
Also, I spent most of the book hoping to see how he would interweave the events of this book with the events of books 1-13 as it happens across those time periods, but it fails horribly at that.
Much of the book is about Magician Humfrey telling his history.
I guess if you hadn't read the previous 13 books in the series, it might have been nice to have gotten caught up on the happenings of the rest of the series.
Or maybe if you hadn't read the books in a long time and had forgotten, but little of it had anything to do with the main plot of this book.
Minus the Magician Humfrey's telling of his History, there wasn't much to the plot of this book.
All the books in the series, this one included, can be read by themselves, and the reader will be able to follow along.
With all the juicy tidbits that are in this book, the review needs to be vague in order to preserve future reader's joy.This book starts with Lacuna, the daughter of Millie the Ghost and the Zombie Master, going to the Good Magician's castle to get a question answered.
She becomes the person who finds out what has happened to Humphrey!After finding him, he starts to tell her his life story!
For readers of the Xanth series, this is fantastic!
This is the story of Humfrey, once King of Xanth, now the Magician of Information.
It covers quite a number of years, and many questions are answered about Xanth and characters from previous books.
It also offers an insight into a character that has appeared in every book, that of Humfrey himself.
She goes from Blah to Happy over the course of this novel, simply by doing a service to both Grey and Humfrey, in a fashion.
I like her happy ending.Definitely five stars, for all the information we get.
How can it not be information, when Humfrey is the subject?
In this volume, we learn how Humfrey came to be Humfrey, the story behind all of his wives (yes, multiple), and where he's been.The sheer volume of the puns in this one nearly drove me to madness.
It was like someone had made a bet with Anthony that he couldn't use every single pun sent to him in the mail for the last year.
I just felt very little attachment to the stories by this point because they spent so much time and focus on making lukewarm jokes.
This book is the literary version of a clip show.
Don't know how to fill the pages of your book?
Just tell the previous stories over again in abridged versions.
I understand a little recap to make sure new readers understand some obscure reference or minor character but this book just felt lazy to me.
The actual story was fun, I enjoyed learning about Humfrey's youth and the ending was also interesting but it really seems like he mailed this one in.
And the number of puns has reached critical mass, it really starts to take away from the enjoyment of the book.
Basically to me a review of the world of Xanth through the eyes of Magician Humphrey, although very cleverly done. I felt as if I was briefly touching on each book I had read in the Xanth series to this point. Anthony manages to basically bring all of the quests that require an Answer, and thus a year of service, through the perspective of Humphrey. Lacuna, one of the Castle Zombie twins, figures prominently in the end as she rescues Humphrey from Hell (literally) and learns his history as well.
Another great read! I've read this one before, but couldn't really remember much of it, probably because it recaps the previous books in the series, most of which I hadn't read the first time round!A recap style book, basically telling most of the previous books in brief from the point of view of Humfrey the magician of Information, it's a fascinating read, he has an interesting take on most of it!Great to finally know more about him too, learning his history, and bits of Xanth's history previously unknown!
book #14 of 30+ in the Xanth series.I found out about piers anthony from my friend, she reads many of his books. I happened to find book #7 in this series, unaware of how many I would be commited to reading. I love the series, it has been an ongoig story, some of the books are "flashbacks". I am just lucky that he started writing these in the 70's and though he (I believe) is still writing them today, I have awhile to go before I catch up.
Yet another Xanth goes by. The interesting story, of... What has Magician Humphrey been up to? The story may get a little boring at times as Magician Humphrey summarizes all the happenings in Xanth during his lifetime. A long story, but one worthwhile. You find he's more involved in the story of Xanth than you would believe. Well, you have to believe it. Anyway Humphrey begins a young man like any other, and ages to become the gnomish being you recognize.
For being the 14th or 15th book in the series, this basically serves as a quick rehash of the previous books plus some unknown parts (like Crombie being the son of Humfrey). The framing story is resolved in the final chapter and it's a quick and obvious story. Look, if you're reading the Xanth series still by this book, you know what the heck to expect and this book is all of that.
I wish this book was more about Lacuna and her story and less about Humphrey but still I enjoyed seeing all of Xanth through his eyes. I really enjoyed all the different "romances" of the good magician but I liked the Gorgon the most. I think perhaps I was supposed to like Rose the best, but the Gorgon stole my imagination.
