https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6109.A_History_of_Venice
Venice was the commercial and cultural crossroad between East and West, the most Byzantine city in Western Christendom, as visible for example by contemplating both the exterior and the interior of the stunning Saint Mark's Basilica.Venice was the mistress of the Mediterranean for the most part of its history (supported by an amazingly efficient shipbuilding industry, capable of turning out fully-equipped warships at the rate of one every few hours); a remarkably efficient, tolerant, broadly based, secular oligarchy based on commonsensical principles of commerce and wealth, never falling into the traps of religious fanaticism or autocratic principles (as opposed to what much of Europe repeatedly experienced throughout its history).
The complex relationship between Venice and the Turks is also represented by the author with remarkable balance and detail, where the intermingling of political, commercial and military aspects is highlighted with lucidity and precision.
Venice came together around the time of the fall of the Western Roman Empire, as refugees from various Italian cities found themselves fleeing an onslaught of German and Hun invaders.
As the Western Roman Empire crumbled, they found refuge amongst the lagoons of modern Venice, an ideal and strategic location that would serve the fledgling city well throughout its history.
Successive waves of immigrants began to turn the area into a city, and soon, with the blessing of the Eastern Emperor, Venice emerged as a political entity with close relations to the Eastern Roman Empire in Constantinople.
Venice turned against its one-time patron, the Eastern Roman Empire, as its power began to crumble.
In telling the tale of Venice, the author focuses on the political/economic history of the City state that at one time boasted it ruled a quarter and a half of the Eastern Roman Empire.In telling the story the author looks at the pivotal events of her 1000 yrs of independence.
It went from a hard driving, entrepreneurial, willing to take risks for both the glory of Venice and personal gain to by 100 yrs after Lepanto, “The old public spirit evaporated, The Venetians were growing soft.
Norwich looks like the kind of work with which one beats off intruders, but it was, in fact, a joy to read.I have skirted around Venice for several years now, but if you are interested in the history of the Mediterranean, of Byzantium, of piracy or of Islam - and I am interested in all of these - there comes a time when you can no longer use this work as a doorstop.
Loved every page of this sumptuous romp through a thousand years of history; effortlessly learning a great deal in the process.
Venice is at the heart of a great many pivotal events of the Middle Ages and on the periphery of many more.
I emerged from reading the book with a profound respect for a city state which survived for a thousand years without being conquered by an enemy or burning a heretic and which despite valuing the blessings of peace and trade more than most, nevertheless enjoyed a share of glory.Stonking - frankly.
It focuses on political history without delving much into art or architecture, so it's best supplemented by other books in those areas to derive a full and rounded picture of Venice.Over the years I've encountered frequent allusions to the far-flung Venetian trading empire during the late Middle Ages without really understanding it, and this work clarified the issues wonderfully.
Norwich himself actually complains of this on two occasions—there's just very few places in Venetian history where you can say anything about the personality of someone.However, I think the main problem is I was hoping for a history of the Venetian state, and the book is really a history of the city, though restricted to that period where it was a state.
There's no sense of how the overseas empire really worked.But, Norwich loves the city of Venice, and that love shows through on every page.
When a new building goes up, there is a footnote telling what part of it is still visible today.
Disclaimer: This book took a long time to read.
It is very dense, and covers the entire life of Venice, which is hundreds of years.That said, this is one of the best history books I've ever read.
He manages to cover the major points of Venice's history without going off on many tangents, yet he manages to give us little tidbits of information that you may not get in other history books.Moreover, "A History of Venice" isn't just a history of Venice - it's a portrait of the Italian states, of the Roman Empire, of the Crusades, and of the Dark Ages and the Renaissance.
It is a true pleasure to read the work of such a masterful hand.Norwich makes several key points about Venice's success and its incredible ability to survive as a leading European power for over 1000 years before being blown away in a matter of weeks by the Napoleonic Whirlwind.
Moreover the constitution placed limits on powers of the Doge who ultimately had to govern based on consent.The second key factor was the strong Venetian instinct for peace.
Mr. Norwich did a wonderful job with this uniquely European city.
Mr. Norwich tells the story of this fabolous city in rich detail and with obvious love.
It always transpires if one loves the topic one writes about; Mr. Norwich simply adores this city, therefore I adore his book.
Not for the faint hearted due to its size and complexity but I can assure everyone who has ever been to Venice - or not, as a matter of fact - that this is book is a wonderful, towering achievement - and good, clean fun.
If there's a more thorough and comprehensive history of Venice than this, then I would be the first to read it. However, I doubt there is. For an overview of Venice from its earliest settlement as a group of fishing communities to its fall as a grand republic and beyond, one couldn't do much better than read this work.
Each elector wrote the name of his candidate on a paper and dropped it in the urn; the slips were then removed and read, and a list drawn up of all the names proposed, regardless of the number of nominations for each.
At one point she was so strong she sacked Constantinople and brought back the 4 famous bronze horses (in St Mark’s museum; the ones on top of the Basilica are fakes).
Diplomacy was her strong point; coupled with her military strength, she dealt with and held her own against the Great Powers.
The Ottoman Empire further weakened her power by taking over the trade route, and building an equally strong army.
Norwich is totally on Venice’s side; all other countries are more or less described in unsavoury terms; this makes this book so fun to read.
Una maravilla de la historia narrativa, se queda muy cerca de las obras de Runciman.
An extended history like this one reads something like a biography, from brave youth through the prime years to decline and demise.
The story of Venice is also a sort of mirror to the Europe of the corresponding eras, an ornate reflection of greater forces all around.
Told with an occasional dry witticism and a deep love for the material, Norwich's description of Venice's past is rich and detailed.
I was totally enthralled by this book but it covers so much time, so many complexities of politics and war as to be overwhelming, though I cannot imagine the story better told.
Norwich says " [and] half of Europe condemned to some 500 years of Muslim rule" on page 143.
And I have no idea what life was like for Venetian women.And yet, this book has changed the way I view history and the world.
And Norwich resituated Venice in my world view.
I had no idea.Venice is the world's longest-lasting republic; it lasted 1100 years.
I feel like part of the success of the Republic was due to how careful the city was to prevent concentrating power in too few hands.
While I am relieved to be done carrying this huge book around with me, I will read Norwich again.
John Julius Norwich provides a wonderful overview of the rise, apex, and eventual stagnation of the most serene republic, from the ashes of the Western Roman Empire to Napoleon's unchallenged capture of the city.
Norwich, best-known for his histories of Byzantium and Norman Sicily, expertly weaves regional and European history into the story.
Best part was about how Venice acquired St. Mark as its patron saint - some sneaky city fathers stole his corpse from (Muslim) Alexandria by hiding it in a barrel of pork.Recommended to history-minded people looking to visit the area, and for those who enjoy well-written history - for me, Norwich is up there with Barbara Tuchman and Robert Massie.
John Julius Norwich remains one of my favorite historians to read. Not quite as good as A Short History of Byzantium, but close.
Geographically: the impregnability of the lagoon initially to barbarian ravages (which made it a multi-cultural refuge and led to its initial establishment); the sea bound nature which led to it establishing key skills of saving navigation and ship building very early on and almost to gain a monopoly in some of these areas in the Mediterranean – not least when the Byzantines effectively outsourced their navy; later the impregnability both to invasion and to territorial disputes (which plagued the West when between the decline of Roman empire and rise of nation states it was a continent of city states and regions with lack of natural or impregnable boundaries); their dominance of the Mediterranean gateway to the trade of the Fertile Crescent and of the Far East.
Norwich includes nothing about Venice after Napoleon and virtually no social or cultural history.
Nor is there a detailed account of the history of the Jews or other minority groups in Venice, or indeed very much about daily life for the great mass of people.
Jan Morris' book on Venice, which does not claim to be a history at all, covers most of these topics better than Norwich manages to do.
It's hard to fault Norwich for not doing what he does not set out to do, and his book is a success (even a great success) according to the limits he has set for himself.
i'm keeping this around, because norwich's prose is overall good, he's obviously got a lot of affection for his subject, and it's fine as a one-volume (if dates-and-names centric) overview of venice as a fully independent entity, but:1.
norwich in general tends to lean much more heavily on a combination of palace and military history than i prefer, and this isn't an exception.
there's very little discussion of art history, of economics, or especially any kind of social or cultural history.
there's just, in general, not a lot of "why".2.
probably related to the above, i'm a little thrown off by what he chooses to spend time on.
Incluso su tamaño me resultaba alentador, sonaba a que estarían todos los detalles y más allá.Sin embargo, ha sido una experiencia algo agridulce.
Pero lo que me ha resultado incómodo, es la forma anticuada (al más puro estilo historicista del siglo XIX) en que nos lo muestra.
Que se reduzca la administración de Verona, Padua y otros territorios de Terra Ferma a unos pocos párrafos o hablar sobre la sociedad en las colonias venecianas me parecen unas carencias demasiado grandes.Ilustrativo, sí, útil, también, agradable de leer, pero también me parece demasiado anticuado y limitado.
The focus of the book is not what I had expected. It seemed to be very heavy in descriptions of wars. As Venice is so beautiful, I had expected to read more about the parts of Venice that make it so unique. I did learn that Venice had a long history of being tolerant of others' ideas and religions, and that it was brought to its knees by Napoleon.
A stunningly well written, passionate, accurate and entertaining account of one of the most beautiful cities in the world. It wasn't light reading all the time but never would I have finished this book if it wasn't so well structured.
Конец у истории грустный, но середина, которую читать совершенно невозможно, грустна не менее.
.
Despite the fact that the book was published in the 80's, Norwich has a refreshingly unacademic way of telling the story of Venice.
While we might forgive historians of Rome for making "Bread and Circus" arguments (there is practically no surviving documentary sources that deal with the Roman commoner), contemporary sources do exist for Venice (it was, in-fact, one of the first places where publishing really caught on).
Venice was the first city with a Jewish Ghetto (the word ghetto is, in-fact, Venetian)--Norwich doesn't even mention the fact.
Norwich provides a thorough history of Venice that leaves readers with a deeper appreciation of the institutions of the grand Republic.
Despite these challenges, Venice was able to maintain a strikingly stable constitutional Republic through its 1300-year history with very little political upheaval.
In particular, it is interesting to see him, the adoring fan of Venice, reel when it maliciously and cruelly leads the Fourth Crusade against his other great love, the Byzantine Empire.
For an almost timeless institution, the Republic’s first nine hundred years receive only a quarter of A History of Venice’s pages.
Many houses in Venice today still stand on piles sunk around 1000 years ago, and the technique was continued throughout the life of the city.
When the history of a state is as complicated and as full of unexpected shifts as Venice's is, that really is a welcome asset.The only slight complaints I would have with the book is that it focuses on the political and economic at the expense of the social and artistic.
I'm always a little irked by the tendency of some historians to presume that anyone reading their work will have the ability to learn Latin - not everyone interested in history has that opportunity - and I would like to see that corrected.Still, all in all, an excellent book, and an excellent scholarly work, and one that I am sure will become the standard English-language history of Venice.
