https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6696602-infinity
THE WORST BOOK I HAVE EVER READ.The writing is stilted, the story is dull, it doesn't make sense.
The main character is a complete waste of space - I didn't like him at all, and was glad when bad things happened to him.
There is no explanation for anything, and things happen for no reason at all; nothing is ever explained, or acknowledged.
Things just happen, and are put across in this terrible attempt-funny style of writing that's just disjointed and lazy.
Do not read this book.
This was okay, but I did have some issues with it. Firstly it was ridiculously long! It seemed to go on forever, and the slow pace just made it really drag.Secondly, it was pretty unbelievable in places – like a strange would pay a 14-year-old boy $1000 a week to run a few errands, and give him a mobile phone and credit card? I don’t buy it.Thirdly, the whole zombie thing was just thrown in there, and it seemed really unbelievable. Not to mention that the way Nick just accepted that there were zombies was unbelievable.5 out of 10
This was the first Sherrilyn Kennyon book I read, I actually read this before I read the Dark Hunter series and I loved it.
He ends up being dragged into a world of Zombies, Vampires, tall Goth gods and general craziness.What I thought of it:  (view spoiler)[Boy this book was fast moving, this all happened over the space of a day and a bit.
This is the perfect look into the Dark Hunter world and it’s characters.
This has got to be one of the best first sentences I have ever read in a book.
I also recommend this book to Action/Zombie/Vampire lovers.
(There are also warped mythological characters, shape shifters, "werebeasts"(werecritters?), "Daemons", and assorted other monsters including sort of putrid flying monkeys.) The book begins to tell a mildly interesting story about the last 2 chapters, but every time I got "mildly interested" the thing wandered off and managed to hit the annoyance button (specifics would contain spoilers...).
I even laughed at a few of the "quips", but the story didn't quite make it for me.By the way, did I say how annoying the book was at times????
Cuando empecé el libro sabía que era un libro muy juvenil y ya había leído varias reseñas, ninguna muy positiva.
A los fans de The Dark Hunters, así como realmente se constituyen es muy probable que no le encuentren gusto a éste primer libro pero sí son fans de Nick y tienen aún esperanzas en él de verdad les recomiendo que se lo lean.
Nick, desde muy temprana edad ha sido un ser complejo y hay eventos que tal vez los sorprendan como a mi, también les ayudará a comprender los verdaderos poderes de Nick.
Tal vez muy juvenil, pero en definitiva se deja leer.
There is action, and humor and teens that turns into zombies, yep, picture it, some of the football team as zombies coming after to kill Nick.
One time some teen starts teasing Nick, he gets kicked out of school because of fighting that teen.
I really liked Bubba, he has two rules 1.
Bubba adds a lot of humor.
I want to stress if I was a YA reader that had never read the D-H series, my rating would be a lot higher.
There is absolutely nothing in this book to recommend it. The writing is crap. The author doesn't know how to identify with teens and constantly talks down to her readers. There is nothing even resembling logic. The plot is all over the place. The characters are flat and dull, when they aren't being needlessly dramatic. Just...in every single aspect possible, this book fails.
This is the first book I've ever decided to stop reading because I disliked it so much. It was taking me forever to get through it, and I just got to a point where I didn't feel like wasting my time with it anymore. There are so many other books I'd rather read than this.
This book starts with Nick at age fourteen when he is first introduced into the supernatural world: first by Kyrian saving him from being beaten to death by his "friends" and second after zombies attack at his school.
As always, my love, it was great to see you, Ash!I did not like the fact that Nick met Simi.
Therefore, I found great joy when he was whimpering like a baby when the zombies had him.Ambrose...Grown-up Nick...I'm not exactly sure how I feel about having the grown-up Nick there with younger Nick.
I was waiting for the rich kids to pay there butlers to beat him up, or to stone him with gold bars.I got up to Bubba (Double degree holding Psychopath?) and the goth vampire killer (super hot, like every other girl hes ran into so far?) before I had to quit, I realise I might be slightly too old for this book, but I couldn’t imagine a young adult reading this and sympathising with Nick.I really am supprised that this got past an editor, It shows soo little finesse it was little better then some fan fiction.
Unbelievably dull...next.
Infinity is the first book of Sherrilyn Kenyon that I've read and probably will be the last because heck, there's a lot of books in this series (and it's still on-going) and a lot more books in the same universe.
I would probably read another book of her if it's not included in this so-called Dark Hunter universe.
I love it!Basically, it is about clueless Nick and how he discovers his demonic abilities.
It's all good but it also becomes confusing especially to a reader who hasn't read any books from the Dark Hunter universe.
Disappointing addition to young adult paranormal genreHaving never read any of the Dark-Hunter books, I came into Kenyon's INFINITY: CHRONICLES OF NICK without expectations.
For existing fans of Kenyon's adult Dark-Hunter series, this novel may also provide backstory for characters they've followed in her other books.
Overall, Kenyon's attempt to jump into the young adult market with INFINITY disappointed me with its inability to create a world I would want to visit again.
If you're a fan of adult urban fantasy and would like to see a good addition to the young adult world by one of your favorite authors, I highly recommend Kelley Armstrong's Darkest Powers series (THE SUMMONING, Book 1) instead.
Ash makes an appearance for all you DH fans =D In all it is worth investing in this series if your a fan of Sherrilyn Kenyon/Dark Hunters.
Also non-Dark Hunter fans you don't have to read the Dark Hunters series to enjoy CON but I highly recommend you get intimate with Kyrian and Ash at the very least, and any other main characters introduced in the CON series.
WARNING: The Dark Hunters series in meant for adults and has adult content.*********************************PLOT/SPOILER ALERT*******************Nick himself is a powerful being that even Ash is concerned about.
Remember what happens between Ash and Nick?
My reasons were:• I didn’t depart the Dark Hunter series with the best feelings;• Never really liked Nick;• Wasn’t sure of Sherrilyn Kenyon’s ability to write a good YA novel.Did I make a good choice with Infinity?
All I got was Nick being bullied, Nick lacking food and Nick being chased by stupid jock zombies (cheesy much?).
Infinity didn’t even elaborate the Dark Hunter-related things I wanted to find out.
I have absolutely no feelings for any of the relevant characters (put the old ones like Ash, Tabitha, Simi, Kyrian aside).
If I think about it, there’s absolutely nothing that I like about this book.
Never read Kenyon before because her books just never sounded interesting to me.
For some reason this new journey of hers into the YA fantasy field caught my attention.
Should have stuck with my impression of her adult books as this was mostly a waste of time.
The best character was Nick's mom, the single mom stripper with a heart of gold.
The whole book was full of this type of cliche' and I've discovered that zombies, whether live or dead zombies, bore the shit out of me!
Wouldn't recommend this one to anyone, except maybe a diehard Kenyon fan who doesn't want to miss a single detail.
A fun read devolves into a convoluted non-nonsensical almost indecipherable mess.Its like the horror section at the video store threw up and the author expects me to clean it.
Zombies- the dead kind, which come about spontaneously (I think) and the living kind (which were created accidentally on purpose by kid who made a video game he could play to inflict mind control on others that goes haywire) another kid with unspecified supernatural connections, his uncle, who's really him in a previous incarnation, except they're both still alive, his evil father who has another supernatural genus/species I dont recall, vampires, warewolves, daemons, demons (I read the book and Im still not sure what the difference is), gods, simis (also got me) and a half a dozen unfleshed out (no pun intended) other types of supernatural beings..
So all the demon characters were interesting, but the parts of the book with Nick's interactions with mortals were torture to read.
The unanswered mysterious questions of the book were interesting, but there were way too many unanswered questions to the point where this singular book had no purpose besides intrigue for future books.
I tried to roll with the stupidity and see it in a fun light, but it was just too much for me.The main reason I can't stand this book is the main character Nick.
The way Nick thinks about women is over exaggerated, horny, and not something I'd like to read about.
FREE WILL, the first two words that struck me, the first two words that hold me to the point of knowing the unknown, the two words that will lead to significant events through good or bad, a decision made by the heart...that will change one's FATE...Forever.
That alone should tell you how much I disliked this book!!1/5 stars(just a warning, there may be slight spoilers in this.
SOMEHOW a character allllllwayyyyys says something philosophical and deep and basically plot-hinty at every possible chance and we're expected to take it seriously.
Seriously, nobody SAYS the things characters say in this book.THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN, OUT OF THE FRICKIN BLUE, CANNIBALISM???
I also felt no inclination towards Nick's mother, who never listened to him and yelled at him for the majority of the time she saw him, never really recognizing wtf was going on in his life.UghhhhhIt's been a long time since a book pissed me off so much.
This book is written in the 3rd person, but it seemed as if she was confused as to who the main character was.
All of the characters are written together and "thinking" and "saying" things at the same time and you have no idea who is thinking or saying what.
After getting past that, the possible main character, Nick, is not even close to relatable.
It's as if she was trying to make him a comedian but all of the jokes fall flat.
I'm not exaggerating; literally EVERY joke, quip, or attempt at whittery fails miserably.
This might be the most annoying main character ever!
Reading this book is like looking into a shoebox filled with colorless shrinky dinks.
In "Infinity," Nick Gautier is your stereotypical chosen one.
He has powers, maybe?
And powerful beings watch over him, or something?
The funniest thing about this book is that Sherrilyn Kenyon is suing Cassandra Clare for plagiarism.
Does Kenyon understand that everything in her book is an archetype, trope, or stereotype?
I've read a lot of brain-dead young-adult books, but this might be one of the absolute dumbest.
Last year, I thought the Violets of Smarch was the dumbest book I'd ever read.
Infinity can barely be considered a book.
I really wanted to love this, I did.
I am a huge zombie fan - so I thought I'd love this onebut the mix of...different genres and zombies just didn't work for me.
The layers of Mythology mixed with all the other surprises just muddied the storyline and made it drag for me.
And I did not like Nick.
He was sarcastic and rude.
I never found him funny, I never though his little quips were cute.
Even his devotion for his mom and his wanting to watch over and protect others just could not endear him to me.
Review en ESPAÑOL:  (view spoiler)[Siempre será bueno volver a leer a los Dark-Hunters, así que cualquier libro donde ellos estén involucrados es un buen anzuelo para mí. Nick Gautier, es el Nick que amamos y nos hacía sonreír en Dark-Hunters. En esta serie, tiene catorce años y aún desconoce el mundo detrás del velo. Por lo que se ve muy sorprendido al verse rodeado de zombis jugadores de futbol que quieren comérselo. Ahora él debe patear traseros y averiguar por qué desean su cerebro. Mientra
(view spoiler)[Siempre será bueno volver a leer a los Dark-Hunters, así que cualquier libro donde ellos estén involucrados es un buen anzuelo para mí.
Muchas cosas le sucedieron en dos noches.Infinity, es un libro para entretener que se posiciona junto a Buffy, la cazavampiros; su objetivo es ese, divertirnos y llenarnos de acción patea zombis (en este caso).Sherri, con esta serie, incursó en el genero juvenil para llevar sus libros a un publico mas joven junto a los mangas de los dark hunters.
ไมนาเชือวาเรืองนีจะเปน Young Adult คือ ตัวละครเยอะแยะมากมายกายกอง และพลอตเรืองเราวาหนักกวาชุดพรานราตรีเสียอีก ในดานการเลาเรืองของนิคเลมนีนีเหมือนการตัดบทโรมานซในนิยายเลมอืนๆของเชอรริลีนดีๆนีเอง แลวยัดรายละเอียดยิบยอยของโครงเรืองเขาไปชนิดทีเรียกไดวาจัดหนักกันเลยทีเดียวเรามันใจวานองๆหนูๆทียังเปนวัยรุนอยูและหยิบนิยายเลมนีมาอานเลยโดยทีไมไดอานนิยายชุด Dark Hunter (พรานราตรี) มากอน คงไดงงกันเปนไกตาแตกแนๆวา ดารค-ฮันเตอร เวอร-ฮันเตอร ดีมอน แอชรอน อารทิมิส เปนใคร ? แตกไมไดหมายความวาจะอานนิยายเลมนีไมรูเรื
ไม่น่าเชื่อว่าเรื่องนี้จะเป็น Young Adult คือ ตัวละครเยอะแยะมากมายก่ายกอง และพล็อตเรื่องเราว่าหนักกว่าชุดพรานราตรีเสียอีก ในด้านการเล่าเรื่องของนิคเล่มนี้นี่เหมือนการตัดบทโรมานซ์ในนิยายเล่มอื่นๆของเชอร์ริลีนดีๆนี่เอง แล้วยัดรายละเอียดยิบย่อยของโครงเรื่องเข้าไปชนิดทีเรียกได้ว่าจัดหนักกันเลยทีเดียวเรามั่นใจว่าน้องๆหนูๆที่ยังเป็นวัยรุ่นอยู่และหยิบนิยายเล่มนี้มาอ่านเลยโดยที่ไม่ได้อ่านนิยายชุด Dark Hunter (พรานราตรี) มาก่อน คงได้งงกันเป็นไก่ตาแตกแน่ๆว่า ดาร์ค-ฮันเตอร์ เวอร์-ฮันเตอร์ ดีมอน แอชรอน อาร์ทิมิส เป็นใคร ? แต่ก็ไม่ได้หมายความว่าจะอ่านนิยายเล่มนี้ไม่รู้เรื่องนะ มันก็มีคำอธิบายในตัวของมันอยู่แล้ว แค่ไม่ได้ลงรายะละเอียดเหมือนพรานราตรีจนสามารถเห็นความเชื่อมโยงของตัวละครหรือบทบาทสำคัญๆเท่านั้นเองมาพูดถึงด้านการ spin-off เนื้อเรื่องออกมาดีกว่า เราถือว่าเชอร์ริลีนทำได้ดีทีเดียวที่สร้างตัวละครของนิคออกมาได้น่าสนใจและน่าติดตามมากมายขนาดนี้ ทั้งด้านอารมณ์ขันของนิคที่เป็นตัวสร้างสีสันให้กับท้องเรื่องได้อย่างดี จนถึงความตื่นตาตื่นใจในการดำเนินเรื่องที่ทำให้เราได้ลุ้น ได้รู้สึกตื่นเต้นไปกับฉากบู๊ที่มันส์มากๆ (โดยเฉพาะฉากต่อสู้ตอนท้ายๆที่ทำให้เราลุ้นจนลืมหายใจไปบ้างเลยทีเดียว)รออ่านเล่มต่อไป .....(view spoiler)[นิค โกเชร์ อาศัยอยู่กับแม่ในบ้านเก่าๆโทรมๆหลังหนึ่ง ชีวิตในวัยเรียนของเขาถูกเพื่อนล้อและดูถูกอยู่เสมอ แต่นิคก็พยายามที่จะเป็นคนดี จนอยู่มาวันหนึ่ง ... เขาพยายามจะกลับใจและช่วยนักท่องเที่ยวที่ถูกดักปล้น เป็นผลให้นิคถูกทำร้ายจนเจ็บสาหัส จนไคเรียน ฮันเตอร์ได้เข้ามาช่วยชีวิตของนิคเอาไว้ และนั่นทำให้โลกของนิคพลิกตลบไปเลยตลอดกาลใครจะรู้ว่านอกจากดาร์ค-ฮันเตอร์หรือเวอร์-ฮันเตอร์แล้ว จะยังมีซอมบี้ที่กัดคนคอยตามล่านิคอยู่ข้างนอก โดยที่เขาไม่รู้เลยว่าเขาไปทำอะไรเอาไว้ ทำไมเขาจึงถูกล่า ลำพังแค่เขาต้องทำความเข้าใจเรื่องโลกใหม่ที่ไคเรียนพาเขาเข้าไปก็หนักพออยู่แล้วนิคต้องรอดชีวิตจากการตามไล่ล่าของเหล่าซอมบี้ที่เพิ่มจำนวนมากขึ้นเรื่อยๆ แม้ว่าเขาจะพอรู้สาเหตุว่าซอมบี้มาจากเกมที่เพื่อนของเขาสร้างเพื่อเอาคืนพวกขาโจ๋ที่คอยแต่จะรังแกเขายามอยู่โรงเรียน แต่มันจะไม่เหลือเชื่อไปหน่อยหรือยังไงที่เกมๆหนึ่งสามารถทำให้คนกลายเป็นซอมบี้ได้น่ะ !?ระหว่างที่โรมรันกับซอมบี้ นิคก็พบกับเคเลบที่ยื่นมือเข้ามาช่วยเขา แท้จริงแล้วเคเลบถูกส่งให้มาช่วยนิคผ่านทางมือพ่อแท้ๆของนิคที่เป็นมาลาไคผู้ชั่วร้าย และนิคก็เป็นมาลาไคเช่นกัน เพียงแต่เขายังมีเวลาที่จะไม่ทำให้ตัวเองกลายเป็นอย่างพ่อของเขาแอมโบรสคือตัวตนของนิคในอนาคต พูดได้ว่าแอมโบรสคือภาคหนึ่งของนิคที่พยายามจะแก้ไขอดีตของเขาโดยสอนให้นิคได้รู้ถึงพลังที่แท้จริงของตัวเองและวิธีที่จะควบคุมมัน เมื่อนิคถูกซอมบี้จับตัวไปและโดนบังคับให้ฆ่าพวกพ้องของตัวเอง ถึงเวลาที่นิคต้องตัดสินใจเลือกข้างว่าเขาจะยอมจำนนให้กับการแก้แค้นอันแสนหอมหวานหรือจะเลือกทางเดินที่ถูกต้องและปล่อยให้โชคชะตาลงโทษคนเหล่านั้นเสียเอง แต่สุดท้ายแล้วนิคก็สามารถผ่านบททดสอบนี้ไปได้ในที่สุด ... (hide spoiler)]
Y también entender un poco, por qué en el futuro, se vuelve tan irritantemente estúpido, sobre todo ya en los últimos libros.En este libro, hallaremos también muchos personajes conocidos (si has leído la saga), nuevos, inesperados, de hecho uno de ellos me dejó con el ojo cuadrado y con la boba sonrisa en la cara, después de mi muy sonoro WTF?!
Con cosas muy reveladoras, encuentros muy extraños y nuevos errores, que van a reordenar el futuro de Nick Gautier, mi muy amado Malachi, al que sin duda, todas queremos ver redimido por el amor de una friki mujer, muy del estilo de las protas de la autora.
This is the very rich story about Nick and his struggle against evil and his true self, although he has no clue yet what that means.
Nik finds himself suddenly in a world full of paranormal creatures and it is happening all way too fast for him to grab.
Many creatures want to get a hold of him and according to a some sources if he turns evil he will doom the world.
I love such rich stories, they keep you on edge all the time.
I love when an author is able to create a world that big.
But what I loved most is Nik!
The main character himself speaks properly (almost adult-like in his syntax in thought and word) for the first 80 pages and then seems to remember he's one step up from a street kid and starts throwing "ain't" into every other sentence for the next big chunk of the story.
but in this case it really bothered me because you want to care about this kid and want him to make good choices, but those choices are so completely and utterly murky you're left not knowing what to hope for.
Bir gün arkadaşları Nick ten turistleri soyarken etrafı gözetlemesini ister ve Nick işin içine silah ve bıçak girdiğini görünce , o insanların kaçşmasına yardımcı olur.
Ve Nick i kurtarır.Bu adamla ilgili garip olan bir şeyler vardır ve Nick neler olduğunu öğrenmek ister.Kyrian Nick in hastahane masraflarını karşılar ve karşılığında ondan işlerinde yardımcı olmasını ister.
Nick Kyrian ın Acheron adlı bir arkadaşıyla tanışır ve Acheronla ilgili her ley tuhaftır .
Nick daha önce hiç bilmediği bir dünyaya adımını atmıştır ve çevresinde olan olaylar da garipleşmeye başlar , okulda bir zombi saldırısı gerçekleşir ve verilen mücadeleye dahil olur.
3,5Kitap çok eğlenceli ve ilginç başlamıştı, bi sürede sonra tam anlamıyla içine etti. Nick'i sevdim ama bazen maldı. Karakterlerin çoğu silik ve salaktı.Birden vampirler, hopp iblisler, aa durun şekil değiştirenleri de koyalım... yetmediii Karanlık Avcılar'ı koyalım, ay dur sistemi çözmek üzereler Yunan tanrılarını da ekleyelim, amannnn Avcımsılar da olsun... hiç birini de açıklamayalım.Not: belki kadının diğer serisini okumuş olsaydım daha farklı bir görüşüm olurdu
