https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/453603.Homing
I realized reading this childhood favorite, though, that GLH gave me feminist pro-single role models.
It was written in 1938-I MEAN, 1938, PEOPLE--and features a shopgirl who first dreams of a single life and home on her own, a middle-aged single professional woman with a great apartment( IN 1938), and a rich girl who wants to stay single rather than marry a jerk.
I never noticed before how wonderfully pro-single and feminist GLH is.
That seems insane to say about sappy books written in the 1930s about girls who inevitably marry rich men with strong chins and curly hair, but...tis the truth.
At the same time, the way she carefully DOESN'T make assumptions that will get her hopes up too much is perhaps a lesson to us all.
But in a way that makes me want to try harder to be a better person.
I think that's why I love the books of Grace Livingston Hill so very much.
I come away with such an attitude of hopefulness and change, that I really do think I am a better person for having read them.
What a beautiful legacy for Grace Livingston Hill to leave us with this body of work!
One of my favorite things about GLH's novels is her descriptions. I really got a chuckle out of this description of an arrogant young man, "He was so brilliant that some who know him regarded him almost as highly as he regarded himself." Zing! While many of her characters are stereotypes, and her plots predictable, her novels remain a relaxing, satisfying read. I am always on the lookout for another one that I have never read.
12-29-08: This wonderful rags-to-riches story carries as much inspiration today as it did when it was first published in 1938. Not only does brave, beleaguered Jane Scarlett receive astounding news about her finances, she discovers true riches of faith, friendship...and maybe even true love. This book lifts your heart and captures your imagination. And at page 224, I'm not even done with it yet!
I've got too many good books waiting to finish this. The story is good, the style is choppy and stumbles over it's self a bit. I realize this was written in 1938 and the style of writing was different than it is now. This lady wrote alot of books, but just not what I want to read.
Homing ReviewThis book is for lovers of The Bible & romance. It's probably deemed an Old-Fashioned story of people's different lifestyles. Grace Livingston Hill never disappoints me.
Another comfort book to get me through flu/bronchitis.
Beautiful and upliftingI love her work, have read almost all as well as own almost all. This is another wonderful story by this great author that will also draw you closer to Him.
Sweet As AlwaysI enjoyed this book as much or more than any I have read of GLH The heroine was humble and dainty as always ;)
I love Grace Livingston Hill's books, mainly because she writes from a different era.
Though the publishers tried to update her books by putting a 70's picture on the front, her stories are still set in the classic Grace Livingston Hill time period, the 30's and 40's.
This was a time in our history where life had rules, there was a distinct right and wrong, and classes of people were defined differently than today.
Grace Livingston Hill's books always have a beautiful and exciting love story, one where Christians and non-Christians lives collide.
I read her books to my 97 year old mother-in-law, Anna, and she relates in a different way than me.
A wonderfully written A wonderfully written story of the difference some people are forced to live due to no fault of their own, and yet the training they receive from a parent can help them navigate life with strength and strong character. God is so well presented by this author, I am anxious to see the rest of her work.
Homing by Grace Livingston HillHoming. By Grace Livingston HillExcellent story for young girls and boys! Beautiful story of Christianity and some of the trials of trying to be Christians!
Jane Scarlet Comes HomeI loved this book. I loved the plot and how it shows a longing for our heavenly home as well as an earthly one.
My new favorite GLH book.
So encouraging about our heavenly home!Loved this book. It is standard Grace Livingston but wonderfully brings out the magnificence of the word of God and eternity.
GLH is one of my favorite authors. This is a book about a girl going through a hard time, and how she finds hope. Jane is working as a button sales clerk and seems to have nothing to live for. She hears an announcement on the radio that changes her focus.
Not her best, but even a relatively mediocre Hill book leaves me with a smile on my face. okay for Aayesha
