https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24455.For_Her_Own_Good
Ehrenreich and English look at what kind of advice we've been given for the last two hundred years.
I hadn't realized how culturally specific, oft-changing, and purposefully created our modern conception of medicine is.
For instance, the cultural ancestors of modern doctors were just dudes who had enough money and class status to go to university and learn classical languages.
Instead, most people used what we now term folk-medicine (practiced by a healer in their area), which *was* mostly evidence-based and very much in line with modern conceptions of medicine (understandings of anatomy, palpating the lymph nodes, knowing what the patient ate, what their stools looked like, etc).
Ok, as if being a woman in this society didn't already make you angry at the medical establishment and how they treat women and women's concerns, this book will infuriate you. However, it is highly useful to see where these attitudes come from that are still prevalent in how medical professionals today treat women. From being dismissed as hysteric, to branding something a syndrome without ever trying to get to the bottom of it, to pathologizing the experience of being a woman. Great book, really informative, I highly recommend it.
The Woman Question is one that was debated until the feminists exploded into the 1960s and '70s.[return][return]At this point, after the women's rights movement of the '70s, Ehrenreich falters a bit when describing the "Let's think about me, now" attitude of women who eschewed a husband and kids for a childfree life.
Since the author is pro-choice, she may not have thought out the connection to those who abstain from childrearing entirely, and how they must fight charges of selfishness just as those who get an abortion fight charges of being a "murderer." I wonder if Ehrenreich, being a mother, is aghast at how feminism inspired future generations of women to live a childfree life.[return][return]Other than that criticism, I found the book a valuable source of information.
61 (alas, the Grahamians -- proponents of vegetarianism and health food stores -- didn't gain much traction...)"Any system that, of itself, creates a privileged class who can by law, or otherwise, lord it over their fellow men, destroys true freedom and personal autonomy.
Never hug and kiss them, never let them sit on your lap.
If you must, kiss them once on the forehead when they say good night.
..."I love trying to picture my friends with two year olds shaking their kids' hands in the morning.
gender roles are social constructs.
Furthermore, these experts have relied on the authority of science to convince women that the experts' misogynistic prejudices are actually objective, proven fact.One of the most interesting sections in the book was about how, starting in the 1700s, men co-opted the practice of medicine from women, who, through their activities as midwives and lay healers, had been their families' and communities' primary healers for centuries – in fact, healing was viewed as part of the whole package of child-rearing and running a household.
Vachement intéressant, mais lu trop en pointillé, j'ai littéralement passé des mois dessus. D'un autre côté d'une seule traite ce serait sûrement indigeste, mais j'aurai quand même pu faire mieux. La conclusion fait douloureusement écho à l'actualité, en rappelant que malgré tous les progrès, rien n'est jamais acquis et est toujours remis en cause, coucou le conservatisme religieux, entre autres...
Actually super interesting, if impossible to summarize to anyone who casually asks "so what are you reading?" without their eyes glazing over. A tour de force through the history of the medical establishment, capitalism, psychiatry, child-rearing, feminism and modern society in general that draws a lot of really interesting connections.
LJ user pachakuti's review:One of those books that puts into stark reality how patronizing and riddled with errors and judgement the 'advice' given to women over two centuries of American history has been. They look at the medical industry as a whole as well as psychology and child-rearing as a whole.
Aunque es muy complicado hacer reflexión cuando te encuentras en medio de lo que se está desarrollando, me gustaría leer el mismo tipo de contenido con lo que ha pasado/está pasando a nivel médico/psicológico/ginecológico en estos 13 años que van desde que se escribió el libro.Recomendado para aquellas personas que piensen que la ciencia es todopoderosa, para que vean que la ciencia nació de una manera muy poco científica.
Y para aquellas personas que, cuando acuden a un "experto", les da no-respuestas que espera que sean seguidas al pie de la letra sin rechistar, sienten que hay algo que falla.
Ver mi reseña en www.cangurofilosofo.blogspot.com
Arranca prejuicios sobre la situación de la mujer en los últimos siglos (ni siempre ni todas fueron amas de casa semi-ociosas) y revela el peligro potencial de la ciencia que se presenta como objetiva y absoluta y con ese pretexto se convierte casi en otra religión.
Haciendo un repaso desde los cambios producidos entre la sociedad pre-industrial y la industrial, y presentando los distintos conceptos que hubo sobre la mujer por parte de los hombres (de los expertos) a lo largo del siglo XIX y de la primera mitad del siglo XX, estas dos autoras exponen de forma, en mi opinióm, muy eficaz (y de importancia aún ahora, décadas después) un ámbito más de la opresión patriarcal.
As a result, "The Yellow Wallpaper" and "Mrs. Dalloway" have new meaning.I know why we were constantly have tea parties in home ec class and more understanding for the airs put on by my teacher.I always thought Freud was twisted.The end is - the woman question really is - that the human values that women were assigned to preserve expand out of the confines of private life and become the organizing principles of society.
Reading this book (alongside other books such as Barbara Walker's The Woman's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets, Anything in Virginia Woolf's collection, Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique, and others) I became extremely aware of the women who fought so hard so that someday I could have an education and the possibility of equality in my own society.
I remember losing sleep over what I read in the pages of this book.
And yet, it felt like the biggest gift anyone had ever given up to that point in life.
I felt aware of my own power for the first time.
I enjoy Ehrenreich and her ideas about life and work.
In this book she gives a research-filled history of how women were seen by medical doctors, psychologists, men, ad agencies, and employers.
It's fascinating to see how advice on things like femininity, child-bearing and child-rearing has changed.
Expert "opinions" aimed at women have largely been based on false assumptions and quackery.
This books takes you through many of them.
I found it fascinating, angering, and even a little eye-opening.
I finished this book feeling grateful that I have enough power in my life to make my own choices.
I treated this book as an artifact of second wave feminism (originally published 1976) so I took it's perspective and all its lack of discussion of diversity with a grain of salt.
A few glaring spelling errors (Johns Hopkins not John Hopkins) and some grammatical snafus aside, this was a three star book that I learned a lot from.
I enjoyed the chapters on medicine more than those on domestic science but that is my own bias speaking.
The afterword was the most disappointing part.
To me that took it down to a two star book.
What an infuriating book!
It was well-written and seemingly well-researched.
The infuriation didn't come from the writing but by the crap that they unearthed and portrayed.
The thesis of the book can be found in the afterward, essentially that the Women Question isn't what is wrong with us, or how should we deal with us/ourselves, but instead how can we change the society so the roles and norms for women don't constrain and appear to be so one-size fits all.
What was interesting was that through the ages women have been considered: gentile, naive, in need of protection, masochistic, ignorant, at-fault, and a host of other things at both ends of the spectrum.
This book made me so very angry, which I think was the point.
How can anyone read what was believed by experts a mere 40 years ago and not have a complete rage aneurysm, especially since so many people are convinced that sexism and misogyny are behind us, or perhaps never existed at all?
It definitely focused on white, middle/upper middle class women, which is part the subject matter (the "experts" were probably most concerned with advising this group) but was also really distracting at times, since the experience of poor women and women of color was in the book peripherally, and I found myself wanting to know more, in the context of the subject matter.
A classic of women's history.
Written in the 1970s, there's a wealth of fascinating information that's still too far from common knowledge.
As both history and feminist advocacy, it stands up well today.
Plus, Ehrenreich is just a great writer, one of our best at bridging the divide between academic and popular prose styles.
She distills volumes of fact and theory into an entertaining and even funny narrative.
Even so, Ehrenreich remains scholarly, never sloppy.
And finally, unlike some works of history, this isn't just one fact after another.
Instead, it's a cohesive history of ideas and intellectual movements, and an important revisionist look at the same.
An excellent examination of advice literature on "the woman question" over the past two centuries.
The focus is largely on white middle-class women, understandably in many ways because this was the group that was the focus of the literature examined.
This revised edition (2005 vs.
1978) does try to consider race and class in some ways, but would have benefitted from a bit more focus on that.
Even so, the strong feminist analysis and focussed feminist commentary in the afterward shine a light on the minefield that was advice for and about women by an ever-growing field of experts.
4.5 stars.
It was a little dry but reading some of the advice "experts" used to force on women was enraging. My first question for them would be "How long have you hated women?" Some of the advice from gynecologists from the 1950s and 60s is similar from what I have heard from one in the past 5 years. It's also the reason why I'm not her patient any more.
As always Ehrenreich's research is as thorough as her rather disturbing exploration of unspoken legacy in American society: the history of professionals deliberately trying to dictate the behavior of women. It’s a heavy subject, and best digested in parts. But if you can follow her elegant--yet very clear--reasoning, you might never see the medical profession the same way again.
OMG! Barbara Ehrenreich (and Dierdre English!!)!! If I had read this before Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America, I don't know if I would have given that one 5 stars, knowing that you'd already done something like this! Excellent.
Jaw dropping in the same way many topics exploring women's health often re, this really helped me understand my mother and grandmothers attitude toward doctors and health much better, and it opened my eyes to the many ways in which this kind of advice is still being dispensed today.
Though the title would more appropriately be For Her Own Good: Two Centuries of Experts' Advice to Middle and Upperclass White Women (and I think the authors would agree), this is still a great read. Really eye-opening.
Six stars! This book was SO GOOD. The authors lay out the time line and stick the pin in right where we are. This is why you feel so confused. This is why it seems like things aren't quite right. An important read for every woman.
this just in: men have believed ridiculous things about women. did this book really need updating?
This is an amazing book, that every woman should read. It's full of the sort of tidbits that make you want to laugh, then sob.
Re-read. Love it just as much as I did seven years ago.
This book was written in the 1970s. Made me think about my upbringing and how history and my place in time has shaped who I am. The book reminds us that we do not exist in a vacuum.
