https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175278.Lavender_Leigh_at_the_Chalet_School
Their squabbles and immaturity are entertaining and ring true, and their growing up feels well-paced and natural.
There's no wiser friend who's been at the school longer and is older than her age to guide them; instead, they all need to do some growing up, to varying degrees.
- wish for an uninterrupted night of sleep.Brent-Dyer had such a great run these last few books that I've ordered the next two (and Jo to the Rescue ran me much more than the $5-10 I usually spend on these) just to see how she wraps up the war.
*MASSIVE GRUMBLE WARNING*EBD's editor, whose eyesight had been in decline for some years, went on long-term sick leave at around this point, but at least she managed to make sure Biddy O'Ryan got her proper surname back.
The idea of a new girl who has led a strangely nomadic lifestyle before landing up at the CS wasn't a new one (we get Margia and Amy in the very first term), and EBD returned to it several more times after Lavender (Clem, Carola, Katharine Gordon and others).
Brent-Dyer herself faced just such difficulties nearer the end of the Chalet School series, when the new girls who turned up were increasingly characterless and unmemorable.
Lavender, you see, is something of a global celebrity - she's followed her flighty Aunt Sylvia around the world for much of her life, serving as the title character in a series of travel books aimed at children.
It's a bit convenient when Brent-Dyer, demonstrating her taste for the exotic, introduces another new girl into the mix, whose sole purpose is to prove that Lavender really has changed.
And it's a mark of the books that I've never been sure whether this has been introduced into this edition or something that Brent-Dyer did right at the start and nobody ever picked her up on...Another favourite moment, and one where Brent-Dyer is genuinely a bit outstanding, is during the scene between Auntie Sylvia and Miss Wilson.
It's a moment where Sylvia expresses her discomfort with the juniors hearing war news and essentially Miss Wilson tears her to shreds.
The 17th book of the series rehashes a familiar plot - snobby priggish girl who hasn't been to school before finds it difficult to adjust to school life, in this case the titular Lavender Leigh.
As a result in this book, she is rather delicate, having had a "difficult time" of it, and she doesn't see too many people.
(Everyone nods seriously when she says this instead of making gagging motions as I would have at that age).The Lavender storyline bored me a little - it's becoming very familiar (and I know many of the future books have a similar theme, unfortunately).
Again not particularly pleased by the "extras" in the Girls Gone By edition - all could have gone into a new, separate series companion in considerably less irritating fashion, and could have done with an independent editor not associated with the fan club(s).
I also don't like the amount of advertising for what is basically published fanfiction (and half of it not even good) at the back of this edition.
I would be far happier with the unabridged "Lavender" with no extras at all.That said, it is nice to have access to new unabridged editions, considering what Armada did to them!
Lavender Leigh, the heroine of a series of girls' books, has difficulty adjusting to the Chalet School.
Jo Maynard, herself the author of a series of girls' books, is able to nudge Lavender into reforming enough to become a genuine Chalet School girl.
Not an original plot for Brent-Dyer.
However, the "difficult girl learns to improve her personality through hard work and careful guidance" theme is to me a more entertaining plot than the more unlikely "difficult girl gets lost or stranded through her own arrogance or impulsiveness" plotline, which is featured in so many Chalet School books.

I don't remember reading this one before, or perhaps the abridged version was that appallingly done...Lavender Laughs is another one of the strong wartime entries that EBD managed to deliver with depth and warmth. Miss Wilson is brilliant and her friendship with the Head is finely drawn; there's a chapter between Robin and Daisy discussing Jo that throws her character redevelopment (and the household) into sharp relief; and the Juniors are actually sketched into a genuine cast, unlike previous efforts!
Another enjoyable episode of the Chalet School, with many of the Bettany and Russell children beginning to enter the story. I have not yet bought Highland Twins, but the war books are slowly bringing in new characters in the younger years, with stalwarts of the Austrian school now having nearly all left.
Lavender is a spoilt girl who has travelled around the world with her aunt. She goes to the Chalet School and has the inevitable clashes. A bit like 'Eustacia...'in plot, but still a good light read.Original title: Lavender Laughs at the Chalet School. I have one of the hardbacks of this name.
Lavender's travelled all over the world with her auntie, who writes children's books. However, because of the war, Lavender's forced to go to the Chalet School. It's a big change for her, never having gone to school before. She has a rocky start, but eventually, everything works out for the best.
Great story, as always. What a horrible girl lavender starts off being. I did wonder if she might be the one bad egg who doesn't change, but she does. Great advice from joey makes her grow up. Funny ending!
Another of my most favourites. I think this "era" of the books is my pet one!
I'm actually re-reading Lavender Laughs, in its unabridged finery.
But her Aunt Sylvia, with whom she has traveled the world, has been called up, and needs find somewhere for Lavender, especially since her health has become a worry.
Not just any school, but the Chalet School.
Lavender gets off to a bad start, since she resents being there at all, and in a class with younger girls, especially Bride Bettany — who tries her hardest to help Lavender — who is nearly three years younger.
But as time goes by Lavender finds herself fitting in, till finally she laughs — in the Chalet School.
