https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46165.This_Side_of_Paradise
This Side of Paradise tells the story of Amory Blaine, a young boy who comes from a family with money and a good name.
In the meantime, Amory falls in and out of love, stays out of World War I combat, and carries on a series of dialogues – both internal and external – that probably encapsulates the generation, at least for a narrow cohort of white, privileged, upper class ivy-leaguers.Fitzgerald’s novel is semiautobiographical, weaving events and locations – St. Paul, Minnesota; Princeton; a lousy, heart-breaking breakup – into his fictionalized world.
Between Book I and II there is a section titled “Interlude.” This portion of the novel briskly covers Amory’s service in World War I, where Amory serves as an instructor.
Entitlement courses through every word and hemorrhages forth with a youthful flair for dramatics.
That a momentary blemish can nearly bring a girl to tears of despair, that looking into the very face of death wrangles only a moment's serious reflection before thoughts are turned back to the senior prom - these scenes seem too fantastical to believe.
And yet, I am angered by them.
I loath these characters' nonchalance about life and lives.
If they were not authored into existence with such undeniable skill, I would not have wanted to charge into this book and wring their necks.
Scott Fitzgerald (1896 - 1940)This Side of Paradise is the debut novel by F.
Scott Fitzgerald.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و دوم ماه نوامبر سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: این سوی بهشت؛ اثر: فرانسیس اسکات فیتزجرالد؛ مترجم: سهیل سمی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ققنوس، 1389، در 376 ص، ادبیات جهان 101، رمان 86، شابک: 9789643118976، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی - سده 20 مایمری بلین، در سی سالگی، با ثروتی که با مرگ دو برادر بزرگ‌ترش، به او می‌رسد، احساس می‌کند دنیا مال اوست.
«این سوی بهشت» داستان زندگی پسرکی است، که تا پیش از ده سالگی، مادرش به او آموزش‌های فراوان داد.
پسری که به گمان مادرش، واقعا با فرهنگ و جذاب بود، و در عین حال خیلی ظریف، با زندگی در خانه‌ ای که همیشه تشریفات ویژه ی خودش را داشت.
WWI is oddly glossed over in an interlude.It’s a coming of age novel with an experimental feel; at one point Fitzgerald refers to Joyce’s A Portrait Of The Artist As A Young Man, and you can sense its influence, especially in the second half.
The book covers Amory’s comfortable midwest childhood, his Princeton years and the restless post-war Jazz Age generation.
You feel that Fitzgerald is attempting to capture his generation, one unshackling itself from pre-war mores.
An elegiac feeling suffuses the book, especially near the end.
When Amory revisits Princeton after the war, full of early disillusion, Fitzgerald gives us this stunning passage.
It's one of those books from your high school reading list that you probably still like.
Scott Fitzgerald's novels.
Scott Fitzgerald put EVERYTHING HE HAD into this book.
His life, his loves, his poetry, every idea, every experience--he crammed it all in here and called it a novel.
At first you're reading a bildungsroman, the story of a young american, Amory Blaine, coming of age at Princeton University.
Scott Fitzgerald is a first-time novelist here because he makes the mistake new comedians make.
That's the lesson of the book and it's a good one.Oh, and I also take away that 'Amory Blaine' is a terrible name for a character.
The key to the success of This Side of Paradise is in Fitzgerald’s mastery of the Male Protagonist in a Literary Novel Problem.
So, in a literary novel, a male lead must be powerful enough to have an unbiased view of the problem he sees with society.
What’s needed in a literary male protagonist is a delicate balance of sensitivity and strength that we don’t normally see in the real world.
It’s this balance of sensitivity and strength (much like Shakespeare’s Hamlet) that convince us through the 268 pages of this novel until the very end that Armory Blaine might have the solution to what is wrong with society.
See, this is the problem with re-reading books that shine so bright in your memory — sometimes they just don't live up.
I mean, there's really no reason I shouldn't have loved this book.
I nearly always feel guilty about not liking a book.
In this case my guilt is compounded by the fact that someone who once meant a great deal to me loved the shit out of Fitzgerald, and this book in particular; in fact, it's his copy, full of his underlinings and nearly destroyed due to the number of times it's been caught in in rainstorms, that I still have.
But Nick, I'm sorry.
F. Scott, I'm sorry.
I just don't love this like I used to.
DNFing this one. Maybe it's because I'm not in the mood, or maybe it's just slow and not my jam in general. Either way, just thinking about picking this book up was not inspiring me to read so I'm done.
Of all the writing by writers in their early 20s I've read (and written), this book is down the street and around the corner from most.
I wish I'd read about the Romantic Egotist before I wrote a book called Incidents of Egotourism in the Temporary World that also takes place in the Princeton area.
(I loved when Amory Blaine biked at night with a friend from P'ton to my hometown.) Fitzgerald writes sharp, swervy, gorgeous, clever sentences, pretty much always with his eyes on the socio-existential prize.
Scott novels and then re-re-re-reading Gatsby.
The blurbs tell us that some young women used the book as a manual for how to be a jazz-age flapper – this in 1920.
We even get a bit of goth when we are told that with one girl “evil crept close to him.”The book is dense with themes, the main one being wealthy young men in an ivy-league environment –Princeton, where Fitzgerald went.
And a bit about writing: “…I get distracted when I start to write stories – get afraid I’m doing it instead of living…”Hanging over all these young men is not just the usual “what am I going to do with my life” but first, waiting to survive being drafted into World War I.
Fitzgerald combines standard prose narrative, narrative in the form of a play, free verse and rather pedestrian poetry to tell the story of Amory Blaine, a young mid-Westerner who believes he will achieve extraordinary success in life.
However, nothwithstanding the beautiful prose, the evocation of the age with which Fitzgerald has become synonymous, and the autobiographical insights, this is not a work I have any particular interest in reading again.
Two stars for Amory's story and another one because of the insight it provides into the workings of the young Fitzgerald's mind.
IntroductionNote on the TextSelect BibliographyA Chronology of F. Scott Fitzgerald--This Side of ParadiseExplanatory Notes
Scott Fitzgerald to stop writing poetry and including it in this book as the work of his characters.
You have to read it, because it's freaking F.
Scott Fitzgerald and you don't skim the man's work, but honestly this was insufferable.
There were passages in this book that I loved, and parts that I couldn't put down: but overall the work seemed uneven.
The whole focus of the book is simply one character's development as a person from childhood to mid-twenties, and that development isn't always believable.
That said, there was a lot of playfulness in this book that made it fun to read.
Sometimes I just go mad and do things like that!" (context makes this make a tiny bit more sense)And oh, the poetry!
It's like Fitzgerald being a pretentious ass and trying to get lame (to me) poetry into a book way too many times.
Last year I read The Beautiful and Damned for a classics challenge, and not only did I give it some five star love, it was also one of my favorite books last year.
A book that was so popular that he makes a comment in The Beautiful and Damned about how all of society is talking about it and it's a must read for them.
"It was always the becoming he dreamed of, never the being." Thinking back in time, I believe that I must have had ADD as a kid because when I was presented with all of the classics in school, I just didn't appreciate them like I am now, with the exception of Poe. Since I finished reading Of Human Bondage, I have had a thirst for devouring the classics and lucky me: it's like an extended Christmas since there are so many!!When deciding on which classics to read my mind went first to F. Scott Fi
Of course, as with the other classics, this leads to deep introspection once he fails first at love, career, and convention.
What I loved far more than the story or the characters within was Fitzgerald's poetic prose and I am not one for saying such things.
"Sentimentalists think they want to be in the pure, simple state they were in before they ate the candy.
I love reading stories about the rich, or so Amory was in the beginning, that just wander the Earth looking for introspect.
They tend to get heavy at times, but I love to read the rattlings of their minds.
Equal parts loathed and loved this book by America's most beloved author.
I loved the dreamlike quality and the switching of verses from the standard novel, stories, poetry, play, and even a section drafted in Q&A format.
Original and provocative, especially given that Fitzgerald was only 23 when he wrote this book.
I could feel the greenness of his life, and how frightened he must have been of what the world had to offer.
I also tend to hate novels filled with philosophizing and seemingly meaningless ramblings.
This Side of Paradise primarily suffers from not being The Great Gatsby.
And while I know that This Side of Paradise is Fitzgerald's first foray into writing, The Great Gatsby is most people's first foray into Fitzgerald.
People have expectations, you know?
This Side of Paradise just doesn't measure up.
One of TSoP's main flaws is that it has virtually no plot.
It does contain the rare snippets of brilliance, but you have to wade through a whole lot of tosh to find them.
Still, I can't say that I hated it, however, I've definitely had naps that were more stimulating.
This would be my last Fitzgerald book ever.His writing style is extraordinary and magnificent but as he might have put it: he doesn’t write about anything of importance.
Non stavolta.Di questo libro ho un ricordo ben preciso: lo comprai nel 2009, all'edicola che c'era (o forse c'è ancora) dentro la stazione di Bologna, prima della scalinata che portava al corridoio sotterraneo per l'accesso ai vari binari.
E un libro, per quanto insignificante, ha un peso specifico persino superiore a libri che posso aver adorato, e persino a libri che ho adorato e che sono legati al ricordo di quella stessa persona (penso al Maestro e Margherita, che ho comprato insieme a lei, e che pure non mi riporta col pensiero a lei - la grandiosità del libro è riuscita a sopprimere persino un ricordo di tale potenza, il che per come è strutturata la mia mente è un risultato sorprendente).Ho riaperto questo libro, dunque, e ci ho ritrovato dentro un cartoncino rosso, che segnava il punto dove ero arrivato all'epoca della prima lettura.
Unlike Victorian coming-of-age novels (think Dickens), Amory Blaine's story avoids easy resolution and creates one of the more realistic portraits of adolescent indirection found in 20th cen lit.
He was working with a character type known as the "mooncalf," a teenage boy pining for love, and between talk of petting and wearing other men's BVDs (you'll have to check out the "Supercilious" chapter on your own!), he can seem a bit of a woos.Nevertheless, TSOP captured something as America entered the Jazz Age, and the book, for all its faults, is gossamer and sad in all the lovely ways we expect from Mr. Fitzgerald.
Scott Fitzgerald was a gifted writer, even in the beginning.A lot of his problems lay in the thinly-veiled autobiographical nature of his novels.In "This Side of Paradise," the protagonist--he certainly never does anything heroic--is Amory Blaine.
Amory and his friends discuss ideas and literature with wearying solipsism, as if they were the first people ever to think.Again, much if not most of Fitzgerald's novels are autobiographical, and I usually find his work brilliant.
"Paradise" does a whole lot of tedious "telling." The potential is obvious, especially if we've read Fitzgerald's later works.
Brilliant dialogue that still rings true after many years of being published. One has to wonder what he would have accomplished if F Scott Fitzgerald had not died so young ?
Whilst I don’t like it quite as much as I do The Great Gatsby, this still holds all the depth and details that I love in Fitzgerald’s work.
In this book we follow Amory Blaine throughout his young years, growing up and going to Princeton, and his young adult life trying to find his way.
We see his many attempts at love and his failings and we see him try to understand himself as he learns more and more about the world and the way it all works.
I do hope to read all of Fitzgerald’s novels this year as he is one of my favourite authors.
As I have already mention, this is his first published novel, and the reason why it is so much different from the rest of this work is because of the story, I believe.
Fitzgerald is honestly one of my favourite authors, but I always find myself in need of a break whenever I finish one of his books.
I do think I will reread this again sometime, but it is honestly not my favourite of his work, even though I did fancy his language.
The reason being is that I had a hard time with the main character Amory Blaine.
I tried liking the character, but he just rubbed me wrong.Aside from not liking the main character, this was a wonderfully written story.
I can see why Fitzgerald shot out of the gate with this one.
And the big treat of this story is Fitzgerald’s “reading list”.
Fitzgerald kept alluding to many of the books that he had read during his early years.
So it looks like Fitz might have been a weird fiction fan.Give this book a go and judge the main character for yourself.
Fitzgerald's ability to capture this linguistic evolution in all its subtlety is one of his singular achievements as an author.Another fascination that the book has for me is its depiction of Princeton University (my alma mater) before, during, and after World War I.
The chapter describing his arrival on campus is called "spires and gargoyles." Amory is a dreamy, undisciplined student and social climber who wanders the campus in a daze and eventually pays the price for his lassitude by failing a class in solid geometry.
As much as Princeton has changed since Fitzgerald's day, some of the campus traditions described in the book still exist.
But even living within this seemingly decadent world of success, Amory still struggles to find himself and his happiness.
How American.Behind Amory's cynicism and dark wit remains a lost American boy who just wants to find truth, a desire that remains true for so many young adults.
The book ends without a conclusion, which, paradoxically, turns out to be a conclusion itself: life is a continuous struggle of uncertainties, disappointments, and failures, and the only way to find happiness might be embrace such haunting realities.
At last I have read all the novels of Fitzgerald and now I can officially say that this novel is my favourite. Yes that is true, many professional literary critics consider it to be the most immature and imperfect work of Fitzgerald, but still I like it and nothing will change my opinion. This novel is a story of Amory Blaine. Or of Scott Fitzgerald?  Sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between the author and the main characters for there are so many events and people taken from the writer'
Sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between the author and the main characters for there are so many events and people taken from the writer's life - Princeton, military service in Europe and the Triangle Literary Club as well as Monsignor Darcy, Beatrice Blaine and Clara who are almost accurate copies of Fitzgerald's closest people.
the whole novel is a long way of the main character to the understanding of himself and his own life.
And here finding his calling for Amory becomes just a matter of time.Now this was a story of Amory Blaine, but the book is not just about Amory, it is about the whole generation of young people, 
It's not bad, but Amory is very self-centered and I would not want to be friends with him.
I did not get very interested in the poetry; it just suddenly shows up sometimes throughout the book.
The poems were too long and they were hopelessly romantic.
Princeton is very strict.
I have a relative that went there.
All of Amory's friends talk about things like literature and politics.
Of all his lovers, I liked Claire the best.
I didn't like Isabelle or Rosalind, because they cried about everything, but Eleanor was likable.
Amory wants to find out who he is.
סמי ביוגרפי, הרומן מתאר את חיו של אמרי בליין, מקטנות ועד אמצע שנות ה -20 שלו.
ובסוף הספר הוא משלים עם מצבו.דמותו של אמרי בלין מבוססת על פיצג'רלד והרומן עם רוזלינד על הרומן עם זלדה.
זלדה סירבה לחיות בעוני ולכן סירבה להינשא לסקוט פיצג'רלד.
הם נפרדו כמו ברומן, אלא שבניגוד לרומן עם רוזלינד, סקוט פיצג'רלד התעקש לפרסם את הרומן הזה וזלדה הסכימה להינשא לסקוט פיצג'רלד לאחר פרסומו.
לכן הרומן הזה כל כך חשוב כי לולאי פורסם לא בטוח שפיצג'רלד היה ממשיך במאמציו לפרסם עוד ספר.החלק האחרון בספר עוסק במעמד הביניים שהחל להתגבש בארה"ב שלאחר מלחמת העולם הראשונה.
