https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1073750.The_Vet_s_Daughter
This novel is written from the point of view of Alice Rowlands, daughter of a Vet living in South London.
Her father is brutal and cruel to Alice and her mother.
Strange things start to happen to Alice; she has to return to London and the oddness continues.
Watch out for a replay of the Passion story at the end with Alice as an innocent Christ figure and her father as the evil deity refusing to let the cup pass from her; it’s quite striking.I do wonder why Comyns isn’t better known.
Why don't I read this skinny little novel, you know, as a quick summer read, and add it to my cute little shelf that I've endearingly named “a buck and change?”I mean, it's called The Vet's Daughter, and what could be more adorable or summer-ish than a story coming out of London in the 1950s, of a daughter and her veterinarian father?Well, let's see.
what could be more adorable or summer-ish than this pale blue, 133 page novel, with pictures of whimsical legs of pantyhose blowing on the front cover?Um.
The writer of the article had chosen a popular female author from the 1920s, 1930s and 40s and 50s and recommended a couple of books by each of these authors as fiction worth reading today.
The story is about Alice who lives with her brutal and strange veterinary father and bedridden mother in a sinister suburb of London.The Vet's daughter is a harrowing and haunting tale of family life with a little magic realism thrown in and a lot of strange behaviour on the parts of the characters.
The ending left me baffled and therefore probably reflects my low rating on this novel.An interesting read but not a book I will be recommending.
It was like that all of the time.Alice's mother sides with the walls, her voice heard when her husband isn't home.
A good book to not be finished when father comes home.
The attractive man she does want is turned off when he sees Alice levitating in her sleep.
I don't know about the random bed levitation once she is set up to live as companion to the Blinker's mother.
It would have been better if she had never left home, or found something more than "Save me, Blinker" to live for.
This book pumps a person with longing—both abstract and specific.
I long for the heath,for tendrils on my rose-pink countenance.
I long for mildew in attic rooms.
I long to float towards a ceiling.
I long to be drawn across a frozen pond by some starry man-hunk (a sort of late-Victorian Ice Castles where the protagonist is blind on the inside.
“We forgot about the flowers,” is right!).
The details here are superb and the writing style, so much so I should probably give up the ghost.
I love how withdrawn and matter-of-fact the protagonist is.
Perhaps the less said about this the better, as I knew nothing much going into it (besides that Comyns had written Who Was Changed and Who Was Dead, and so was obviously amazing), and it really crept over me out of nowhere. In the best ways. Comyns is a fantastic, unique stylist, with a deadpan sense of the macabre and an eye for detail, often very odd and defining ones that inflect her works into really her own territory of realist-grotesque.

All along, Comyns writes so believably, eloquently mixing the mundane with the horrific so that when we get to the point where this book verges into the unreal, what happens now seems no stranger or any less plausible than anything in this novel so far.
The story told here is one of overwhelming loneliness and powerlessness, the stuff of many a novel, but recounted in a unique way that sets this book apart from others with the same themes.
This is my first book by Barbara Comyns but far from the last.
It was definitely well written -- the language sharply detailed and unique to the protagonist.
A brutal father, a mother with spirit and body long ago broken and a home filled with animals suffering various ailments are all described in the detached journalistic manner of someone who has come to accept the life (?) or lack of surrounding them.
But there might be hope: Alice has a chance for escape and in doing so comes to discover a hidden talent so unique (unbelievably so) that her dreary life could quite possibly be… lifted.
But the book's tone of harsh reality combined with fantastical elements sometimes didn't synch.
Y aunque al principio me costó un poco entrar en la dinámica de la novela, rápidamente me acostumbré y pude disfrutar de una narradora muy peculiar que nos introduce en un ambiente tanto oscuro como inocente.La voz de Alice, una chica de diecisiete años que vive con sus padres en una casa en los suburbios del Londres eduardiano que a su vez hace de clínica veterinaria para su padre, nos lleva de la mano hacia la opresión que se vive en su entorno a través de los ojos de la inocencia.
La mezcla perfecta de la voz de Alice, los sucesos de una chica joven sin casar en una sociedad tan oscura y decadente y el giro gótico de la segunda mitad de la novela hacen de The Vet's Daughter una novela original, sencilla y completa a la vez.
Alice is 17 and living in a home that is truly an abusive and tortuous place, then her mom dies, and things start really going downhill.
But then her sort-of-boyfriend gets her a gig out on that island taking care of his rich but very depressive mom.
Then THAT mom dies (thanks Comyns!!
[all her moms die sin her novels, sheesh]) then the story takes a turn from Dickensian brutality and Patrick Hamiltonian urban despair and ennui to Hangover Squaresomething you really shouldn't or don't expect, except this is Barbara Comyns, and you should always be ready for the grotesque, the surreal, the normal everyday world turning on you and running you over like a puppy dog on the highway.
A gothic masterpiece....
is that the time?
I don't want to be here when your father returns.
He isn't half put out by your coming home--he said he'd break every bone in your body.
Oh, he was only joking--you know what men are."Precise, claustrophobic, oracular; disturbing, morbid, immersive.
In this book everyone resents each other's happiness, at least at some point.
Isn't that one of life's awful secrets?
This is a very a quick read.
You need to feel the abysses of life to orient and reorient yourself in such a way that your perspectivalism doesn't make you a monster unaware.Read this book.
Read it.
I originally bought this because I'm slowly working my way through the NYBR Classics list. I'm really torn with this one. Alice had an ethereal quality that the author portrayed perfectly, vividly. On the other hand there were some gaps in the story itself. When I got to the end I couldn't help feeling that I'd missed something along the way. A strange story with a decidedly gothic feel.
A strange, Gothic novel which I found unexpected, dark and fantastic. A clear and vivid narration by Alice that was totally gripping. I could not stop reading. A very original book with some qualities of a macabre fairy-tale. I loved it!
5 stars for the ending in particular - which is like something out of Angela Carter
Following a series of traumatic occurrences in her life, Alice discovers that she has the ability to levitate and things appear to improve for her: she moves to rural Hampshire to act as companion to a frail lady and finally begins to enjoy herself away from the tyranny of her father.
The straightforward nature of these simple statements makes it seem as though these situations are usual, and my heart went out to Alice every time I read something like this that she should think that the case.
Her lack of ability to act makes her seem somehow detached from the events of the novel, as though she is disconnected from them even though they happen to her.
A grim Edwardian fairy tale, gothic horror mixed with magical realism, and a not happy ending. The NYRB blurb writer, as confused as usual, calls the final scene an "appalling triumph."Kathryn Davis's introduction is pure lazy idiocy.It was probably a waste of time for me to wonder "why." Why was the vet the way he was? What motivated him? Realistic stories try to answer these questions, fairy tales don't.
Picked this up from the library intending to read it later in the week but once I started reading it, I found I couldn't stop. I loved it.
3.8El estilo de Comyns es sencillo y cercano, la historia ha sido muy especial. La ambientación magistral.
Alice thought it would be romantic, but she found herself in a dilapidated farmhouse, looking after his maudlin mother, and trying to manage two insolent servants with eyes to the main chance.It was a different kind of strange, but it was just as wonderful as what had gone before.It was in the country that Alice discovered that she had an extraordinary gift:'In the night I was awake and floating.
In the morning I knew it wasn’t a dream because the blankets were still on the floor and I saw the gas mantle was broken and the chalky powder was still on my hands.'Enentually, inevitably, life in the country fell apart, and Alice had to go home to her father.
She suffers.
There is perhaps one glimmer of hope in her life, but it's snuffed out.
The author assiduously avoids valorizing the suffering of the protagonist in any way.
Yet something very strange occurs toward the end, and for me this transforms the novel.
There's a hint of the extraordinary, an intimation of mystery, a bare suggestion that life may have potentialities we do not expect.
I am used to reading novels with interesting narratives that disappoint in the final pages.
It's surpassing strange to read a novel with a disappointing narrative that becomes interesting at the end.
like walser is an outsider artist.(it’s not very helpful to say but: a book you don’t really feel like describing–-but to say (nonchalantly) (or hiss) : “read it” …also a book that you don’t want to analyze overly much. at least not with logic. maybe a different, weirder, more hopeful tool.)maybe just try the first page?
This is a difficult one for me to rate. I really do love everything about it. It's a rippling stream of a novel: delicate, descriptive, wry, sad—so sad. I like how Comyns brought the otherworldly into the everyday and it still felt very true. I like the name Alice.Still, I can't deny that the pacing felt a bit off, somehow. It needed…something. Not quite sure what I mean by that, though...Anyway, I loved it!Hm.
Strange and wonderful and macabre. Alice is a downtrodden Edwardian daughter of a violent, abusive vet ( he sells puppies to a vivisectionist and has a miserable parrot who is picking himself bald). She recounts each weird and awful detail of her life matter-of-factly - “He would have hit me if he hadn’t been holding the mongoose” - and it’s compelling reading. You want it to all turn out well and wonder where it can be going...
Comyn's unspoiled and original voice makes this dark story unforgettable. A Dickens-like childhood,in perhaps early 20th century, a dreary London suburb, a setting so bleak it had to be based on the author's known experience. The sad life of Alice, the protagonist, keeps the reader entranced--can the trajectory of events become any worse? A page-turner.
"I went away feeling rather silly, and there was my father in the hall. Seeing him unexpectedly like that, I saw him very clearly: he wasn't as large as I'd remembered him, but quite an ordinary size, and his cheeks hung down rather yellow and sad; only his moustache remained as it had always been--black and fierce and pointed."
Unusual and beautifully written. Reminded me a bit of Dickens with a slight supernatural and surrealist element.
simply stunning. easy to move through; hard to shake.
This book is ... odd.
