https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14740588-notorious-nineteen
I don't understand why everyone is complaining about the formatting of the books. They are cupcakes for the brain; we know it, Janet knows it, so stop expecting a gourmet meal. Sometimes you just need a funny little fluffer-nutter of a book to rip through in 90 minutes flat and then promptly forget. I will impatiently buy this book in hardcover, love it, and leave it to the maelstrom of eager female family members.
With each new book, I was shocked the series hadn’t come to an end, and I was getting extremely frustrated; the characters never changed, the jokes were always the same, and it seemed to me like Evanovich had become a very lazy writer.I went into Notorious Nineteen with a healthy amount of trepidation.
Since, at one time, this series was my absolute favourite, I am very pleased to say I actually enjoyed Notorious Nineteen.It felt like the story was infused with a new light that’s been missing from the last few books.
I began reading the Stephanie Plum mystery series years ago and got through number eighteen around 2012 when I stopped.
Maybe it's a good thing I waited so long as it was like reading the series all over again this time -- had me nearly wetting myself a few times!
Either way, picking the series back up after almost 7 years was a good decision.In this one, she's got 3 different perps she's trying to capture.
:)Love ya, Stephanie Plum!
but should anyone be so inclined to want to save some time and money, you can mail me a check for, say, $5.00 because you basically just read this entire book right here and you didn't have to wait in the hold line at the library, go to the store to buy it, borrow it from a friend, wait for the mailman to deliver it or download it on your Kindle or Nook and regret it in the morning like you would had you gone out on a bender and pounded down a few bottles of wild turkey.
Check out this review and others like it at BadAssBookReviews 2.5 stars. I started this book with a lot of hope. But ultimately, it was the same as the earlier books. This book is not great. It is more of the same, but it does have a few laugh out loud moments. I feel like I should explain where I am coming from on this series. I don’t happily or easily give this book a low rating. The Stephanie Plum series now has 19 regular novels and several “in between” novellas. The first book was publishe
The first book was published in 1994 (1994!) and Ms. Evanovich is still writing about the same character — Stephanie Plum, bail bondswoman.
I will always love classics, literary fiction, mysteries and crime fiction but I am a woman that likes variety in her books and I am constantly genre jumping.I began listening to the Stephanie Plum series around 2004.
I would rush to the library and look for the next in the series and within weeks I had read/listened to all the available Stephanie Plum books.
Morelli is — horny, likes to eat and wants Stephanie to quit her job.
More of the same. Time for a bit of growth and decisions.
Second ReviewAll though I love the series, and this book was no less funny, I was waiting for something different.
It is finally time for change, Stephanie has to finally decide who wants to have a relationship with.First reviewI have loved this series from the start.
With this series you have to carefully choose where you are going to read, because people are going to be staring out you each time you laugh.Hopefully in this book some important issues would be resolved, mainly who is Stephanie going to choose.
Just a note: I totally LOVE the fact that Stephanie has BOTH Ranger and Morelli in her life!
I love the interplay and tension...Although I read this book on the date of release (as always with an Evanovich "Plum" release!), am just now getting to post my review.I was a bit disappointed in what I considered to be a lack of details about Grandma Mazur's undercover work, but this book was an entertaining bit of escapism, as are all the books in this series!
I just love these characters and am always so disappointed that it will require a wait until there are more of these installments to read!
These are my go to happy books! Never let them end.
Not because I read this book.
No, see, it's more like the fact that I read this book is evidence that I obviously hate myself.No growth.
I don't really expect either of those things to happen, but I keep hoping.And as much as I hate myself for admitting it, Stephanie Plum stuffing a body into a car trunk is still funny.
None of the rest of the reoccuring themes are still funny, but I did laugh at that one.
(And it won't be funny the next time.
Just because I laughed twice doesn't mean I want to see it over and over and over and over again.)
Notorious Nineteen's two mysteries -- one involving a vengeful figure from Ranger's shadowy Special Forces past and another involving a vanished embezzler -- are a little better than Evanovich's most recent warmed-over fare, raising this lackluster novel to two stars from one.
(hide spoiler)] If you don't have anything else to read in the house, then turn to Notorious Nineteen.Now that Evanovich is just phoning them in, I think I'll stop answering the call.
I LOVE THESE BOOKS!!! Always! Any time you want a book to raise your mood and have a laugh, these are the books for you.Reread -- again June 2016. Still love it! Randy Brigg and Digger. Funny!Reread June 2018 — Steph works closer with Morelli which means she solving his case for him. And Ranger has her involved with a revengeful killer. But the worst part for Steph? A bridesmaid dress from Barbie’s HookerHouse. The best part of this book? Ranger in a tux! (Take some time to imagine that but remember to breathe) *sigh*
There is no reason to review the plot because at this point it never changes. I think it was Hard Eight where Stephanie finally sleeps with Ranger that the series jumped the shark. The real mystery is why I keep reading this drivel. Another mystery I ponder is how Evanovich gets away with selling books that are basically paint by number. This is mind crack and I need to quit my addiction. Is it too much to hope that book twenty will finally resolve some things. Please? It's enough to drive this Jersey girl insane.
Last year when I discovered the Stephanie Plum books, I read the first twelve in 8 days!
The whole Ranger/Steph/Morelli bit is getting really old, and to be honest the only reason I'm still reading is waiting for one of them to pick!
(At this point, I'd even be happy with Morelli and Ranger saying "Screw Steph!" and moving north to New York to marry each other.) Heck, even Lula and Grandma Mazur were painfully boring in this one.
I marked this one two stars, only because I am still madly in love with Ranger, and the scenes with him alone carried this one.
If you haven't read the first ten or twelve Stephanie Plum books?
Pick me Joe, pick me!!!
Ranger can have Stephanie!
Just let this end already!A few funny moments, but it's basically the same old stuff.
Unfortunately it's my need to know who Stephanie ends up with that keeps me coming back to this series.
I love Joe, but now I'm starting to wonder how dumb he might be.
Stephanie's not all that great and he keeps coming back for more abuse from her.
I'll take you Joe. You have a good job, a nice house, a cute dog...we could make magic together!!
Let's call it a day JE and move on to something else...you're killing me here!
I'm thinking this is Stephanie's motto these days and it pissed me off.Ranger tells Stephanie that he is going to an event and needs a date who will watch his back.
After all these years you would think there would be even a little bit of improvement, but she continues to make the same stupid mistakes over and over again.In this book, we also learn that her boyfriend-that-she-cheats-on, Joe Morelli, is a pretty lousy cop too.
They still make me smile and I'm still on Team Ranger.This guy was picked as Reader's Choice for Ranger....
I liked 18 as it looked like the story might finally be moving along but nope...at the beginning of 19 we are back in the same plot rut.I thought okay finally Stephanie is going to be working with Morelli.
Ranger does so much for her and she treats him like dirt, especially in the first part of the book.
She still needs Ranger to save her from trouble every time she's in a fix and like a lovesick puppy he does.I had the mystery figure out right away.
It had a Ranger subplot and Joe looked more incompetent than ever.
i could read one of her books every day. like ice cream for my brain.
i need to re-read this series!! and think with a clear head instaed of a team ranger one lol
I am so over this series, I don't know why I bother to continue reading these books. Oh yeah, I just remembered. Ranger and Morelli. At least I've wised up enough to get them from the library.
In book 18, it took forever to get the story of what really happened in Hawaii - especially between Ranger and Morelli.
I was hoping that Evanovich would scale back and bring the laugh-out-loud funny, the swoon-worthy sighs, and the ditzy Plum that we've come to know and love.Evanovich scaled Stephanie Plum back, all right.
Suddenly, Steph is trying to be a one-woman gal to Morelli, despite lots of Ranger temptation.
Gee. What a nice guy, huh?I don't remember laughing once while reading this book.
Making lots of noises about not liking how dangerous Steph's job is, which is SO original for him.
Read the first few pages and I am hooked already! Stephanie & Lula...you ladies still shock me and keep me laughing! Ready for the book to come out already!!
I listened to this yesterday during my long car ride home, and it was was a terrific traveling companion.
I always love reading about Stephanie Plum and her sidekick Lula, her two paramours Morelli and Ranger, Grandma Mazur, and the funny, crazy exploits these characters get involved in, and listening to the audio version this time was just as much fun.
The gal who read it for the recording (sorry, can’t remember her name) did a wonderful job with all the different voices.
What a wild and crazy ride this story was (ie talking tiki gods, exploding cars, etc) making my ride much more enjoyable.
If you've read one Stephanie Plum book, you've basically read them all.
The skips always manage to escape, so Stephanie and Lula resort to eating chicken and donuts.
And, of course, no Plum novel would be right without the ongoing highly sexual love triangle between Stephanie, Morelli, and Ranger.
I always find moments where I am laughing out loud as I read the ongoing antics between Stephanie and Lula.
The books are easy reads and require only one or two sittings to finish.
Light hearted and cute, I will continue to read each Plum novel as it's released.
Here are a few of the most prominent signs:Not one but two cars Stephanie is driving are blown up;Lula consumes at least 8,000 calories of junk food in a single day;Ranger rescues Stephanie from imminent death not once but twice;A really bad guy gets blown up trying to kill Stephanie; andMorelli and Stephanie still aren’t ready to get married after talking about it for 10 years.Truth to tell, some of this is funny as it happens, which is why I kept reading this series of comic novels so long.
But the humor is fast fading, and so is the guilty pleasure I’ve taken so long in this series.I don’t know about you, Janet, but I’m ready to put Stephanie out to pasture at last.
I have been hooked from the start. I can not get tired of them. I have never been able to just bust out laughing while reading a book until I found them. Janet evanovich is best author EVER!!!!! In my opinion anyway....
In the rest of the book Stephanie burned up more cars, battled her attraction to Ranger (I must admit he would be difficult to resist), and ate at Cluck-in-a-Bucket countless times.
Other than that I did giggle a couple of times over the banter but I'm thinking I really need to stop wasting my time on these.If one does want to try another author who writes a humorous mystery series, pick-up Deborah Coonts's Lucky series set in Las Vegas.WANNA GET LUCKY is the first in the series.
An extra fun outing for Stephanie and the gang! This one seemed even more hilarious than some of the past adventures. There was a segment of several pages near the end which I could barely read because I was laughing so hard. The main mystery took quite an interesting turn. Going back to the comedic element, Janet Evanovich reached new heights with a twist in the saga of burning/exploding vehicles.
Steph has been juggling the same two guys for 19+ years. By my calculations, this hottie crew is pushing 50! Janet, put us out if our misery and make her choose one and settle down already ;-)
Oh dear Janet, we love Stephanie Plum, but its getting harder and harder to keep shelling out $32.99 for each new book.
First I pick up the book and it looks to have about a hundred printed words on each page - I know I am getting older but the font doesn't have to be that big!
It doesn't do it in the same way One for the Money did either - that is, tell us interesting stories from when Stephanie and Morelli were young, it just goes over the same ground we have in every book now.
