https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34879754-i-am-watching-you
Turning on the TV she is floored to see a broadcast talking about one of the girl's she saw on the train.Cue a year later.Driscoll follows several people throughout the book.
The chapters are titled "The Witness (Ella), The Father (Henry), The Friend (Sarah), The Investigator (Matthew) and Watching....no spoilers to who that is.Honestly the whole book reads as repetitive as anything.
Ella's sections are just her defending why she didn't get involved (she brings up Sarah having sex in the bathroom and her own son watching porn and reading magazines with a disapproving air) and then realizing she needs to get some help when she starts receiving mysterious postcards in the mail blaming her for Anna's disappearance.
I Am Watching You is a thrilling suspense novel by Teresa Driscoll.
There is a reason it has been on the Amazon Bestseller charts - it is a very gripping, well told tale!
Ella watches on a train as two local girls on their way to London get mixed up with two unsavory men just released from prison.
This, however, is just the beginning of the harrowing tale.
The girl is missing, the two men are missing, Ella is receiving threats and everyone has secrets.
Thank you to Amazon Kindle and Teresa Driscoll for my Goodreads Giveaway copy.
I listened to this audiobook at the beginning of January.
I'm honestly not sure what I would do.The story was told from multiple points of view and I normally don't have an issue with that.
For the most part, I was able to keep up, but I occasionally found myself getting distracted, thinking of everything but what I was listening to.
The multiple characters and story-lines left me feeling a bit disconnected from the story, but I was still intrigued and really wanted to find out what happened to Anna!
Though I did have a few issues with the novel, overall, I enjoyed it.

A teenage girl goes missing after a special night out with a girlfriend.
Story told primarily from the viewpoints of the witness, the private investigator, the father, and the friend.
I really didn't mind the way this was put together, although at this point it would be positively refreshing to read something that does not employ the use of a multiple POV framework.
I enjoyed it well enough, but found myself thinking about what I wanted to read next before getting this one finished.
This was a Kindle First offering, and I do appreciate the opportunity to read it at no charge.
Ella, the witness, heard their conversations and wanted to call but she was distracted at that moment and sometime later she saw Anna’s picture as a missing girl.
One year later, Anna’s still missing, Sara still can’t remember and Ella feels guilty and blames herself for not calling.
It’s told in multiple POV (both in 3rd and 1st person) and one of them was a private investigator that Ella was hired but I really didn't understand his role in the story because until the first 70% he was with his wife and his newly born daughter, like all the time!
When Anna goes missing overnight, Ella is wracked with guilt for not acting sooner and is also vilified in the media—including social media—for not doing something before it was too late.Everyone has secrets, which we know because the story is told from multiple points of view.
Sarah doesn’t tell the police the whole truth.
Matthew quit the police force to become a PI for reasons that are kept secret to the reader for most of the book.I had a little trouble buying that everyone would blame a mother who didn’t call the parents on the fact the girl went missing.
Review to come.
A year goes by from that fateful night with Ella still upset that she hadn't done anything and possibly stopped Anna's disappearance and with the girl still gone someone else decides Ella is at fault and begins sending her threatening letters.
Jumping a year into the future after a person goes missing seems to leave little hope for a good outcome so as much as I was still a bit curious it failed to really grab me just at that point early in the book.
Now another thing with this one that seemed to make it a bit tougher to connect to the story for me was the way the book changes the point of view between several different characters.
A riveting thriller that sees Ella on a train bound for London, seated near he two teenage girls.
This doesn't deter the girls however, and they soon strike up a friendship.
Anna's friend Sarah is saying much about what had happened to them the previous evening and the police soon run out of leads.
I found myself frantically racing through this book in one sitting, trying to work out what had happened and kept coming up with what the police did, dead ends!
I will definitely be looking for more of this authors work and recommend this book to all lovers of mysteries and psychological thrillers.
A fast, enjoyable read that held my interest but ultimately left me disappointed.
I had to keep reading because the next chapter might be the one where the really big secret was revealed.
Some small elements of the story seemed unnecessary; they didn't add anything to the plot.
(Sal's pregnancy is one example)I enjoyed this book and it was a solid 4 star read...
I struggle now with how many stars to give this -- it was an enjoyable read and just because I didn't care for the resolution (and I didn't see it coming) doesn't mean I should rate it lower.
I LOVE this author's writing and her previous two novels are among my favourite reads ever so I was eagerly waiting for this book.
With this amazing, unputdownable, suspenseful masterpiece, Teresa Driscoll proves that she is right up there with the best thriller writers of today.
What I admire most about this author is her beautiful writing, spare and yet heart-wrenching, and this book combines that wonderful writing with a tense, page-turning plot.
A tense, pacy, sensitive and emotional story, written in the author's stunning and heart-tugging prose.
One of the best psychological thrillers I have read!
Told from multiple points of view, we hear from the parents, a friend, a witness and a private eye.
So many of us would have done the same, not taken the extra step to get involved, especially given she didn’t know the girls or even their last names.
In fact, when we read so often of people directly witnessing crimes and not stepping in, her actions seem almost minor and definitely understandable.
It’s not a fast paced book by any stretch.
And I was dissatisfied by the ending, which seemed a bit of a rush job after all the lead up getting us there.
The narrator does a decent job.
DNF .. don't think I've ever given up on a book so fast! I immediately hated the way it was written, the self evaluation of her naivety and the fact it just didn't feel at all realistic... I mean, come on, would anyone overhear a conversation and then start thinking about ringing a strangers mother to warn them their daughter is associating with the wrong type of person?????
So....the secrets each character held kept me intrigued but it was all for naught. I HATE books like this and resent the shitty, lazy, unfair device the author uses to wrap things up.Switching between 1st and 3rd person narration was just the cherry on the crap cake...
A great opportunity to build the story through the characters and plots, build the tension and it does work so well.When Ella Longfield overhears two attractive young men flirting with teenage girls on a train, she thinks nothing of it—until she realises they are fresh out of prison and her maternal instinct is put on high alert.
Anna’s best friend, Sarah, hasn’t been telling the whole truth about what really happened that night—and her parents have been keeping secrets of their own.Someone knows where Anna is—and they’re not telling.
She considers phoning someone as the men are newly released from prison, but then something happens and she changes her mind.
The next day she finds out that one of the girls, Anna, has gone missing.This story actually starts a year after the disappearance, and is told from different viewpoints.
We hear from Anna's father, from the private detective that Ella hires after she starts receiving threatening letters, as well as from a few others.I did enjoy this book, but at times I got a little frustrated as one chapter took the story so far and then the next chapter changed perspectives.
At times intriguing, at times difficult to follow, I Am Watching You was a three-star reading experience for me personally. Overall, I liked it but I wouldn't read it again. However, fans of various psychological thrillers may enjoy being thrown around in a story with incredibly secretive characters and find it well worth the read. If this applies to you, check it out!My favorite quote:“Because once you become a parent, you learn that love can involve more fear than you had ever imagined, and you never quite look on the world in the same way again.”
Disclaimers: The synopsis section is ©Goodreads but the rest of the reviews are completely my words and of course the quote section is obviously from the book reviewed. 4/5 ⭐⭐⭐⭐  Definitely Recommend   Also On My BLOG (Sun Oct. 15, 2017)@6am    Synopsis: What would it take to make you intervene?When Ella Longfield overhears two attractive young men flirting with teenage girls on a train, she thinks nothing of it—until she realises they are fresh out of prison and her maternal instinct is put on
Synopsis: What would it take to make you intervene?When Ella Longfield overhears two attractive young men flirting with teenage girls on a train, she thinks nothing of it—until she realises they are fresh out of prison and her maternal instinct is put on high alert.
Anna’s best friend, Sarah, hasn’t been telling the whole truth about what really happened that night—and her parents have been keeping secrets of their own.Someone knows where Anna is—and they’re not telling.
I never thought I'd say that for at least another few years.Best book I've read all year in this genre.
It's about a teenage girl who goes missing and hasn't been found a year later.
He lied to the Police about where he was the night she disappeared.The Friend has never told anyone what really happened that night.The Private Investigator was in the Police force until something happened that haunts him to this day.The First Postcard: "WHY DIDN'T YOU HELP HER?"I Am Watching You takes you inside the search for a missing teenage girl.
I Am Watching You had me diving straight into the next chapter so I could uncover the answers sooner.I found this an easy read in that the narrative flowed well and I didn't have to work hard to immerse myself in the story.
What would it take to make you intervene?When Ellie Lovefield overhears two handsome young men flirt
This book felt very real and I was so engrossed in it, I completely forgot I was reading.There was a great mix of believable characters and I really wasn’t sure who to trust, due to secrets certain characters were hiding.
I do have a bit of a phobia of travelling alone on trains as I have a habit of attracting weirdos, and I also find London scary, so I’m sure these things increased the intensity of the experience for me.I loved Recipes for Melissa and Last Kiss Goodnight by this author, so I was really looking forward to this book.
There are elements that are very good in Teresa Driscoll’s book, “I Am Watching You.” At the same time, there are other aspects of the book that were bothersome.The book is composed of short chapters, with a number of characters relating the story.
Anna’s disappearance and probable murder haunts Ella throughout the book, as she blames herself for not doing anything to protect the young girls, who are both 16 years old.Other characters are introduced, and some are painted as the potential guilty party.
So this book begins on a train ride where, Ella, overhears a conversation being had between two sixteen year old girls and two very handsome men that, as of that day, were just released from prison.
So much so that one of the girls, Sarah, and one of the ex-cons decide to have a quick romp in the train bathroom and Ella is completely beside herself.
Okay, so, when I first started reading this I thought of myself as a 16 yr old and how I would react to a complete stranger demanding me to call my parents.
Confusing This did improve as I approached the end , but not enough to make it a good book, just Ok. I felt that it was told from too many points of view, which I usually like, but not in this case.
Didn't help switching from 1st to 3rd personI kept drawing parallels with The Girl on the Train, which in my case is not a compliment.
It was if the author didn't really know how to end it and made some random stuff up.
Only good thing about it, I managed to read in a day, so didn't waste too much time on it.
Completely mind blown from this book! I read it all in one sitting. This book was so much more than what I had expected. The fast pace, the emotional writing that brought me to tears, the twists and turns I hadn’t expected - it was all done to perfection!
Ella is on the way home when she overhears two men flirting with two teenagers in the train.
A year later there is still no trace of Anna and Ella is racked with guilt about not warning the girls off.
The police still don’t have clue but when an anniversary special about Anna airs on TV, Ella starts getting threatening letters and hires a private detective Matthew to get to the bottom of it.
A good enough mystery with a lot of suspects but for some reason I could not relate to the characters.
It's an absorbing, deftly crafted suspense novel, with twists and turns a-plenty, minus the hackneyed cliff-hangers featured in so many other books of this genre.It starts with two girls on a train, and a woman observing them as they chat away to two older lads (who have just been released from prison).
It's a decision that she'll soon live to regret.This book covers the classic 'missing girl' plotline - but it's about more than that - about the effects of a disappearance on the witnesses, as well as the family itself.
It's about family secrets too, and how these can result in a domino-effect leading to a cataclysmic outcome.
I finished it and I feel like I didn’t really even read anything.
There were so many point-of-views that I found myself confused and having to restart.Next, I didn’t really find this book to be all that grasping or mysterious.
The writing definitely wasn’t my favorite thing, but it did have it’s moments.Lastly, I think this book would have worked better if there was a difference in either the choice of main character or the plot.
I think that this book had a lot of different promising qualities.
There just wasn’t enough mmph in the characters or plot for me to thoroughly enjoy this book.
This is a psychological thriller that grabs your attention right away! Many of the characters have secrets and you’re not sure who did what. The multiple characters, pacing and unrelated parts of the plot did leave me a bit confused and disconnected, though. I did keep reading to find out what happened to Anna! Not a disappointing read and might seek out her other books one day.
