https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551866.I_and_Thou
These two ways are what Buber calls the two “primary words": “I-It” and “I-Thou.”When I first read Buber as an undergraduate, I must have skimmed over most of the hard parts, for I felt strongly he was championing the “I-Thou” over the “I-It.” And this made sense, for it was part of the way we young people thought about life in the late '60's: reverence the earth, listen to the environment, treat animals as you would people, and experience the divine without presuming to conceptualize it.
As Walter Kaufmann says in his introduction, Buber's "I and Thou" stands somewhere between the literary and philosophical traditions. This makes the book very hard to summarize and its impact difficult to convey. Suffice it to say, this is 100 pages of honest, resonant writing from a man who believed the most important thing in the world was the relationship between two individuals. It turned an agnostic undergraduate into a believer. A book to return to again and again.
I need to read books like this which remind me – again and again – that every person, every conversation, every moment is crucial, not just those special occasions designated such.Martin Buber’s I and Thou  came highly recommended by Fr. Michael Gaitley in his book, The One Thing Is Three: How the Most Holy Trinity Explains Everything, which is how I arrived here.
It’s a very mystical piece and I know reading and hearing other people’s reactions would have helped me.
I look down and can see, really see-all the way to the bottom-like when you're in a glass-bottomed boat on still water.
I was assigned this book in college and kept it, because it struck me as so true at the time.
At the time, I was kind of sick and pretty delusional and thought I was very invisible, so it seemed like a good way to look at the world: you can only exist in so far as you build a relationship with others.
I think it still holds true to some extent, but not to the degree I once did."The basic word I-You can only be spoken with one's whole being.The basic word I-It can never be spoken with one's whole being.""Whoever says You does not have something; he has nothing.
Really?Of course the emphasis on this text turned out to be nothing less than inspired, and perfectly suited to the material: for what else is documentary filmmaking than entering into "a world of relation" and initiating a kind of Ich-Du/I-You encounter?
If the particularities of Buber's formulations have faded from my memory over time, the questions invoked through that initial encounter with I and Thou continues to actively shape my thinking to this day.[Buber also turned out to dovetail ideally with the particular material we were considering in the course, some of which became Cinema's Alchemist: The Films of Péter Forgács, the first major English-language study of the great Hungarian media artist, crucial rememberer of personal traumas of history often lost and forgotten.]
This is my absolute favourite book of all time and no matter how many times I read it - I get something else out of it :) According to Buber, human beings may adopt two attitudes toward the world: I-Thou or I-It. I-Thou is a relation of subject-to-subject, while I-It is a relation of subject-to-object.
I-Thou is a relationship of mutuality and reciprocity, while I-It is a relationship of separateness and detachment.Buber explains that human beings may try to convert the subject-to-subject relation to a subject-to-object relation, or vice versa.
Buber does not approve of the monologue language, and instead wants people to have more dialogue in order to create I-Thou relationships.
(Professor Murray Jay Siskind later explored the role of the male imagination with respect to the two sub-beings in his seminal work, "A Bra Full of Expectations".)Infinity and Universality------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------In an I-Thou-Two encounter, infinity and universality are made actual (rather than being merely concepts).Infinity is the expectation of the male being, and universality describes the universal appeal (at least, to males) of the two sub-beings.Composition and Content------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Boober stressed that an Ich-Du relationship lacks any composition (e.g. structure) and communicates no content (e.g. information).
Professor Murray Jay Siskind, "Martin Boober's Ich-Du2: A Storm in a D-Cup", 2012External Links ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------* Simona Halep.
A short but powerful philosophical book that changes the perception of relations between a person and his environment. Having said that I must admit I had difficulties comprehending certain passages or ideas the author wanted to convey.
What emerges when I️ and Thou are distinct is the experience of pure relation, the intimacy of the gaze of the other without threat, where parental care allows the other to vacillate between other and self-extension.
(The I️-Thou relation, presumably, is not unique to child-parent relating, but this is where it would first occur, I️ think.) Finally, yet early, the I-Thou gives way to I-It, where a lingual self carves the world up into objects.
Buber’s imperative is to articulate a return to the I-Thou, which for him would be direct experience of the divine.
His greatest work was as a theologian in which he not only made a compelling defense of Hasidism but also contributed greatly to the revival of personal Thomism which was so vigorously promoted by Vatican II.It this short and clear book he proposes a theological model of human existence based on the word pairs Ich-du (I and thou) and Ich-es (I and it).
The way to redemption is through encounter with God in one's daily life through the Ich-du mode of existence.Karol Wojtyla (John Paul II) was a self-declared admirer of Buber.
"I and thou" is a great introduction to Buber's great argument that life should be experienced as an encounter with God.
I read this book twice in my life, the first time in 1976 with Carl Byker, who became an LA documentary filmmaker.
That experience of reading and talking IN relationship about a book about the importance of relationships in spirituality, that it was the essence of spirituality, that was new and unforgettable to me.
The point was to live in the here and now, which was something I was learning from Zen Buddhism.
THAT was being God-like, to BE your conception of God and not live for the future, but now.
How relevant this book is today!EXCERPTS:“in every You we address the eternal You.”“The basic word I-You can be spoken only with one’s whole being… I require a You to become; becoming I, I say You. All actual life is encounter.”“Freedom and fate embrace each other to form meaning; and given meaning, fate -with its eyes, hitherto severe, suddenly full of light- looks like grace itself.” p.
Persons appear by entering into relation to other persons.” p.
It is man’s emerging from the moment of the supreme encounter, being no longer the same as he was when entering into it.” p.
If I could give this book six stars, I would.After giving up on an impenetrable Buber book a couple years ago, I expected that I would never make the attempt to understand him again.
The writing is incredibly dense: Buber's sometimes sudden introducing of unexplained metaphors reminded my a lot of Thus Spoke Zarathustra, another book which I am having trouble reading (I am less than half way through after some years of trying!)Many sections, especially in parts one and two, require careful rereading to get the full sense.
It is well worth the effort- especially to understand Buber's theology presented in part three.
The most difficult book to read.
And by difficult I mean that I really had to think.
The words are put together in a way that we (modern day Americans) aren't used to.
This made it more difficult for me to anticipate the sentence which in turn made me have to re-read and focus more as I read.
There are two different ways of having a relationship with everything in this world.
I-You and I-It are the words for those two relationships.
Great read and one that definitely has to be read more than once for full meaning to be grasped.
One of those books you are reading and you are not really sure if you understand it until you have a moment of 'AHA', and then as soon as you try to put into words your 'AHA' you lose it again, and you realize that the author is saying it as clearly as possible, and it takes a whole book.
So, I have no idea what this book is about, but I had some clear moments of beauty while reading it, moments that I will remember for a long a time and somehow seem to make me stronger to think back on, even though I have no idea what they were.
Self-affirming.
Thank you Martin Buber.
I read this book for Howard Burkle's course, PHIL 215, "Existentialism" at Grinnell College during the first semester of 1972/73. It must have been one of our first readings as I read it while the weather was still warm under a tree in central campus. Unfortunately, I read it very quickly, having much else to get through, and it didn't make much of an impression on me beyond the surprisingly tender introduction by its translator, Walter Kaufmann. Indeed, I thought the point rather simple and its exposition unnecessarily long.
This is an amazing book with abundant insight into what it means to be human. I recommend this book for everyone; it is a must-read if you are or desire to be a human being. I especially recommend this edition as Walter Kaufmann's provides an excellent introduction to Martin Buber's work. If you read only one book in your life, read this book -- and then read it again and again.
Buber says that the concept "I" can only exist in relation to "You". "I" come into existence in the recognition of "You". As "up" is a meaningless concept without "down", so "I" am unconceivable without "you".Who "I" am is determined by how I relate to "You"It all makes perfect sense to me without any recourse to mysticism at all.
from an analysis of personal pronouns and the modes of relation that spring from them, buber develops an intricate philosophy of religion and human existence. like zukofsky with his "a" and "the", buber with his "ich" "du" and "es" shows us that the little words are the big words, and are literally inexhaustible.
But within this remarkably complex, philosophical and difficult text, lies hidden treasures and formulas to understand the equally complex and difficult human nature and our relations with our surroundings, especially with God. When ideas are so large, words don't suffice to express them and you have to create new words, new concepts.
It redefines the word 'You' and situates human beings in their true form, presence and relational position...
Persons appear by entering into relation to other persons.
The purpose of setting oneself apart is to experience and use, and the purpose of that is "living" - which means dying one human life long.
This duality is summed up in two word pairs; I-It and I-Thou.
This can be experienced with nature, other people, infinity, God, etc...
It is an experience of losing oneself with the object which becomes part of the I, like when you get lost in a conversation or book or a hike and time and material comfort become meaningless until you snap back into I-It mode and remember to eat or piss or whatever.
You must experience I-It to survive, but you can't live authentically without experiencing I-Thou as often as possible.
I was lucky enough to be assigned this book in an Intro to Religion class. Otherwise, I might never have heard of it. God knows surprisingly few people have.This is about the nature of the human being's relationship to its surroundings and its capacity for a transcendent, boundary-free relationship with whomever/whatever it encounters. Reminds me now of some of Goethe's theories on observation. At the time it most definitely provided background to the psychedelic "experimentation" of my early 20's. Probably not quite what Hasidic philosopher Buber had in mind.
The first time I read this I knew it was profound and also that much of it was going over my head. Have read it six times now and each time it becomes more meaningful, both in a practical and enlightening way. I consider it one of the best.
Buber makes up words all over the place, he deliberately circumlocates and obfuscates his meaning, and he has references to dozens of other philosophical and religious texts that you may or may not have read or even heard of.
Magic wants to be effective without entering into any kind of relationship and performs its arts in the void, while sacrifice and prayer "step before the countenance," into the perfection of the sacred basic word that signifies reciprocity.
An older strain of thought than I had originally believed.I and Thou is the kind of book that probably needs to be read multiple times to be fully understood.
Jen tři a půl hvězdy.
Na tuhle slavnou knihu jsem se dlouho těšil, ale nakonec mě těsně minula.
Jakobych se už už dokázal dotknout toho, co autor sděluje a zase jsem jen sáhl do prázdna.
A to se mi opakovalo znovu a znovu dokola při čtení celé knihy, takže místo toho, abych si jí užil, jsem si už od poloviny přál, aby konečně skončila.
Nevím čím to je, zda se s autorem tolik rozcházíme nebo jsem osobnostně tolik nedozrál nebo jsem se snad snažil luštit rozumově a filosoficky to, co bylo řečeno jen básnicky.
Je to zajímavá kniha a rád bych, kdyby mi jí někdo dokázal víc přiblížit, autorovi se to zatím nepovedlo.
Mundus vult decipi; but there is a hierarchy of deceptions.” (9) Walter Kaufmann provides a brilliant introduction to this classic work, and attempts to bring meaning to what seems to many people, including me, what is an incredibly esoteric line of philosophical and religious investigation.
I require a You to become; becoming I, I say You. All actual life is encounter.” (62)“To be sure, some men who in the world of things make do with experiencing and using have constructed for themselves an idea annex or superstructure in which they find refuge and reassurance in the face of intimations of nothingness.
And I ask that anyone who wishes to take issue with my inexpert analysis of this book will remember that my degree from LSU is in Accounting (1980).The author presents us with three concepts: that of “I”, that of “It”, and that of “You” (aka “Thou”).
“It” is that person, place, or thing (essentially, any noun) with whom “I” come into contact and relationship with.
Indeed, the two relationships are interconnected; for when one can access an “I – You” relationship with the Ultimate Person of God, then one’s relationship with others become less of “I – It” relationships, and more of “I – You” relationships.
Not only was it originally written in another language, but Buber had a habit of coining his own words and playing with words in unique ways making translating this work quite difficult in order to keep the meaning as close to the original as possible.Although Martin Buber is known for being a Jewish philosopher and a proponent of Zionism before WWII, he writes generously about Jesus and also explores the teachings of Buddhism and the Upanishads.Buber is deeply concerned about the I-You relationship between individual people as they relate to one another and sees each of these "small I-You"'s as a hint and precursor to the interaction persons have with the "eternal You" which is G-d.He describes the I-It relationship as the kind of relationship we have as people with things, but gravely warns of the damage we can do if we turn I-You relationships into I-It relationships; effectively dehumanizing people or visa versa treating things as if they were as important as people or G-d, which in its essence is idolatry.I read the entire book through the first time, knowing that I was not understanding all that I would like.
It left me with a question: how can I foster my availability to what is uncertain?Its last paragraph is comforting; it means to me that I am really renewed by saying I-Thou, and that all my challenges afterwards will be new as well."But this course is not circular.
It is the way.
In each new aeon fate becomes more oppressive, reversal more shattering.
Every spiral of its way leads us both into profounder perversion and more fundamental reversal.
But the event that from the side of the world is called reversal is called from God's side salvation.
Rereading this one again. A classic. A profoundly moving book. I should read it again every year.
