https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/616678.The_Diamond_Throne
If this were D&D his character class would likely be Paladin; he can cast spells, but mostly prefers to just chop off heads with his considerable broadsword.Sparhawk is a bit of a bad-ass.
Eddings seems to have struck gold with Sparhawk, because I was willing to forgive all kinds of faults.It’s an old school story that (in my opinion) leans slightly more toward the heroic fantasy of Gemmell than it does the high fantasy of Tolkien, and yet it still sits somewhere in between.
In fact, it’s absolutely delightful more often than not.The bantering between the characters, and especially the knights of the different orders, is deftly dealt with.
I've probably read this 4 or 5 times. It's fun, entertaining & amusing. I liked this first trilogy better than the second (Tamuli) but both are good if you're looking for something quick, light & entertaining.Sparhawk is a great character, a battered knight, but his horse Faran is my favorite. It's nice to see a horse as a character. More authors should do this.
David Eddings' Belgariad series is what first gave me my love of reading, especially of fantasy, so I always have a soft spot for anything he has written and this book is no exception.
It is up to Sparhawk to try and find a cure for her illness, with the help of his friends and fellow knights, as well as a thief and a girl-child, before Queen Ehlena dies and the world is thrown into an age of darkness.
This is a fun read, it isn't a dark and involved fantasy, but rather a great adventure story full of knights and magic.
:DCharacterisation is excellent with all the characters having distinctly different personalities which results in a lot of humour that ties in with all the action and creates a brilliant set of situations and interactions that will keep you guessing which the way things are going g to go with the plot!
But this adds to a great cambers for the adventures of the characters throughout the book which leads to encounters with many people from different nations as well as giving an opportunity to explore the past history of the world and some the major events that happened to have formed the societies and Nations!
The Diamond Throne is the first book in the Elenium series, and trust me it is amazing!
I could write pages and pages on how brilliant this book is, but since that would take you too long to read and I would land up giving to much away, I’ve tried my best to explain why this book is so fantastic.David Eddings is more well known for his Bolgariad series, which is a coming of age Epic Fantasy.The Elenium is unique in that it is not a coming of age series.
This series is action packed and often quite gorey.The Diamond Throne begins with Sparhawk, a knight of the Pandion Order, arriving back home from ten years of enforced exile.
David Eddings is comfort reading of the highest order (okay, I will admit that I stopped reading him after a certain point, but this series was before that point, so!); I'd reread all of the rest of this series in December, and all of the followup series (The Tamuli), but my copy of this one had taken a walkabout, so I had to backfill and re-read the first one last.Eddings writes High Fantasy (with Capital Letters, even), with all the tropes and archetypes thereof -- there aren't any surprises here.
As archetypical High Fantasy goes, this one's a keeper.
Dosadna i predvidiva knjiga sa dosadnim i predvidivim likovima koji rade dosadne i predvidive stvari. To sve i ne bi bilo tako staršno da su likovi interesantni, da imaju pametne razgovore ili da je glavni lik neko ko je kolko tolko realan a ne wunderkind koji je sve rešava pošto je pametniji od svih, ili bolji borac ili...Jedino što je sama postavka priče interesantna sa princozom/kraljicom zamrznutom u dijamant dok joj ne nađu lek.Iskreno zaobići.Mada moguće da mi ovo smeta pošto sam već pročitao dosta knjiga iz ovog žanra pa one koje su suviše klasične nisu više interesantne.
David Eddings is one of the great masters of the quest fantasy.
What Tolkien started many, many authors have run with, though few as successfully or just generally as satisfyingly as Eddings.The Elenium focuses on a Knight called Sparhawk and his travels to save his young and very beautiful queen, who is encased in diamond to keep her alive.
Of course, Sparhawk is joined on his voyage by a number of others, all possessing severe likeability (my review, my words ;) and suitable heroism.
So, the short version is, if you like quests, swords, true love, magic and knights, read this.
Solid fantasy novel.Interesting world, characters and plot.Something was missing for me though. I couldn't place my finger on what exactly, but it was not as good as Sandersons books for example. Especially the dialogues seemed a bot lacking in a way.The main character is a great and funny one anyway, so if you're on the lookout for a new series, and already read through most of the genre, this might still be a nice change while waiting for the next favorites.
Com a ajuda dos doze cavaleiros, a feiticeira realiza um feitiço que envolve a rainha e seu trono em uma barreira de diamante, mantendo-a desse modo viva por um pouco mais de tempo, ou até que a cura para sua doença seja encontrada.Mais adiante seremos apresentados à Sir Kalten, o cavaleiro Pandion amigo de Sparhawk; Kurik, escudeiro de Sparhawk; Sir Vanion, preceptor da Ordem Pandion; Berit, o noviço aspirante a cavaleiro; Talen, o pequeno ladrão; Martel, ex-cavaleiro Pandion e muitos outros personagens.Sem mais história, pois corro o risco de contar spoilers e ser fortemente apedrejado!
It's not genius writing.
The characters are two dimensional and perfect.
There don't seem to be any subplots of any importance to give depth or breadth to the story or the characters.
It's light reading, it's fast reading.
It's a fun read.
For all the popcorn, I'd read it again and plan on reading the other two books.
Don't look for brilliant writing, deep characters, wickedly twisted plots.
Watch for the low flying Mary Sues that come at you from every corner and enjoy the guilty pleasure reading for what it is.
I remember this series very fondly, but I think I enjoyed it more as a teenager.
Like On Basilisk Station, the humor is a bit too on-the-nose, the protagonists are a bit too capable, and the author relishes showing antagonists getting their comeuppance.
The setting here is very detailed and the characters are mostly plausible, even if they do quip back and forth like they're starring in a sitcom.
I didn't remember the big reveal near the end and was surprised all over again.
I suspect I remember more of the sequels, so I'll be continuing the trilogy :)

Not the correct edition.
Mine is an old library copy from cassette tapes.
The sound quality kind of sucked, but I've read the book in paper several times, so it wasn't a huge deal.This is a simple story, a fun romp, that doesn't take itself too seriously.
It's an interesting world with a neat system of magic & a definite goal.
The characters are pretty standard, but their dialog makes them more interesting.
I love that Faran, Sparhawk's horse, plays such a great role.It definitely ends on a cliff hanger, so be prepared to read the next two books.
I suspect that the high regard in which I held Edding's writing had more to do with the context of my life at the time that I initially discovered his work (starved for distraction) because... this, at least, really wasn't very good. And filled with disparaging and unnecessary references toward women. It is possible that this is just the very worst of his efforts, but... I think I'll have to stand by the past tense "held," in my opening sentence, as far as that high regard is concerned.
Definitely my favorite Eddings novel.That being said...After rereading it recently, what really jumped out at me was that it needed tighter editing.
"The battle went on for another ten minutes...and then it went on for a little longer?" There's examples like that all over the book.And oh my GOD, his editor needed to tell him "If you use the word 'bleak' one more time I will cram this thesaurus down your throat." I'm not kidding guys, in this book and the one that follows you can find the word "bleak" or "bleakly" in every.
The Diamond Throne starts the Elenium trilogy and centre around the hero Sir Sparhawk who is the exiled Queen’s champion from an order of knights who are trained in magic as they are combat.
On returning from exile Sparhawk finds that his queen has been poisoned and her power usurped by the corrupt head of the Elenian church.
However the sorceress Serephina has encased the queen in diamond in order to delay the effects of the poison and buy Sparhawk time to find a cure.
Reread this book for what may be the sixth or seventh time. It's a day read, potato chip craving that somehow moves beyond.This book has the elements I cherish most. It has plot, pacing, action, and character development. If you are a slow reader the book may lack urgency. Sparhawk is a three-dimensional character, not the best but far from the worst. You get to know the first few characters in the starter and the plot presents equally appealing dual conflicts. If you haven't read anything by David Eddings, this is where to start.
This is the beginning of a new edding series and I am not as hooked as I was with the prior series of his. Plot line is ok so far.Characters are brilliant. I love sparhawk and Kuriks constant bickering, like an old married couple.Just not as gripped by this as I was before with eddings. Still good just not great. I will perservere!
4.5 ok, so it's kinda formulaic, but the characters and their dialogues are just so utterly charming, I wasn't immune. On to The Ruby Knight!
Eddings basically repeats the same plot over and over again. I'm particularly attached to Sparhawk, so I didn't mind at all.
Review Soon™
lillias rocks the denouement
This kept the story light and I found myself laughing out loud (quite literally) at least a dozen times during the read of this book.He also had some deep entrenching religions in his world that ultimately believed in the same gods, but different aspects of the gods, much like we do now.
This made for some confusing conversations later on in the book when the author did not introduce the character, instead relying on me having kept up with his myriad of names.I liked that traveling took some time.
The multitude of characters that came in and out of the story made for a confusing read and the disappointing ending to this book made for a bit of a let-down.
And when I was eight, I loved it, although given his massive decline in sales apparently a lot of other people didn't.On the other hand, although he tried to write this, he didn't do a great job of it.
It's far too rushed (more plot in 400 pages than in half of the Wheel of Time), Eddings just isn't a great author, and his long-term latent tendency toward racism, conservativism and sub-Nietzschean contempt for the little people breaches into plain sight in a way that doesn't exactly spoil the book (it's a colour around the edges, not the central picture) but that does give it a bad aftertaste.
The most I can say about this right now is:First, the story is not tied up at the end of this book.
Not in any way.
(I've read this before but forgot that fact.) I got to the end and actually went, "Wait a minute.
What???"Second, do yourself a favor and don't listen to the audiobook.
If you must listen you can speed the narrator up to a more human sound, but still I'd recommend avoiding it all together.It gets 3 stars because I remember liking it fairly well when I read it years ago.
4.5 stars. That ending is great! Eddings writes spectacular characters as always and finally the plot is thickening. Sparhawk is a really likeable character. Although there are still shades of Belgariad/Malloreon characters in all of the other characters, it might just be because I've missed them all.
Read this many years ago, and ended up skimming the second half. I could see why Eddings has such a poor reputation: the writing was boring and the characters were caricatures, with flat dialog and a generic Epic Fantasy Quest plot. I've never been tempted to read anything by Eddings since.
Not a ground-breaking fantasy, and definitely reminiscent of the Belgariad. But it's good, nostolgic, David Eddings fun, so it gets a 4 in my book.
5 stars
