https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28110198-the-circular-ruins
ِِِA♥ B♥ S♥ O ♥ L ♥ U ♥ T ♥ E ♥ L ♥ Y a ♥ m ♥ a ♥ z ♥ i ♥ n ♥g♥♥♥ Borges is the best ever ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ ♥ 
جدای از چرخشی بودن داستان، یه نکته ی خیلی ظریفی درش وجود داشت.
خدایی که شخصیت اول بهش دعا کرد، خدای آتش بود، در واقع شخصیت اول داستان یه جورایی شبیه پرومته بود.
پرومته ای که آتش رو از خدایان دزدید و به زمین اورد.
با این تفاوت که پرومته ی این داستان، بی نهایت بار تکرار می شه.
آتشی که از خدایان دزدیده شده، همون آتشیه که به انسانها توانایی خلق کردن میده.
خلق یک هم نوع از رویا!مثل بقیه ی داستانای بورخس، باز هم نمیتونیم با اطمینان بگیم که واقعا چیزی که تو داستان مطرح میشه واقعیت نداره.
LifeJorge Luis Borges tells the story of a man who dreams in his short text “The Circular Ruin”. In this story we follow the protagonist into the dream where we get to see the creation of a man. This man grows up and we follow him through the early stages of his life. At the end, he realizes that he is a projection of the protagonists dream and with a great twist we get to uncover that our main character, which is nameless is also nothing more than a projection of another man’s dream.  Although,
Although, many would argue that this story is about reality, one could argue that the main focus is on life itself.
Applying this to the story confirms the statement; As soon as the protagonist realizes that he is a projection he stops believing making his life and the life of the short story come to an abrupt ending.
In the short story Borges takes away the focus of reality and puts it on the birth of man; “Almost immediately, he dream of a beating heart.
This quote gives an understanding on how Borges looked at life.
As Borgesious as it gets!
A wonderful story! I love short books that keep me thinking. And this is one of them.
The allusions in The Circular Ruins were fairly strong. However, this wasn't an easy read and the author's way of narrating things can be quite confusing.
After reading stories from H.P Lovecraft, Edgar Allen Poe, and Kafka, Borges provides a totally new experience. The themes are very similar: dreamscapes, multidimensionalism, fear, terror, and evil. In this story we find ourselves following a crazed religious man in the hope of creating life through his dreams. Only to find the ultimate irony that he himself is a dream creature, cliché but still impactful. 3 stars for the confusing narrative.
What a marvellous and extremely well written story. It left me speechless from the very first word until the conclusion, which comes with the very last sentence.
They say that read books/stories that make you think. This one does. Packs quite a punch.
This story of creativity and dreams is told in such a flowing, dreamlike prose as to create the sense that the reader is creating and dreaming along with the character.
Layers of creation are made by the protagonist first, from the protagonist's own mind, and also in the imagination of both the writer and the reader of the protagonist's story.
Round and round it goes, as creation and imagination, reality and unreality, existence and fantasy are confronted by both the characters and the reader.
The story, therefore, is as circular as the ruins in which the protagonist lays, from beginning to end, and from creation to conclusion.
Había leído este libro en mi paso por el secundario y es uno de los pocos que me obligaron a leer y que realmente me gustó. Hoy quise refrescar mi memoria y leerlo nuevamente, creo que lo he disfrutado mucho más que por aquel entonces. Un relato atrapante, dinámico y fluido, lleno de misterio y quizás algo filosófico. Creo que es uno de los mejores libros por el cual adentrarse en el mundo de este autor, lo recomiendo bastante.
Choose the audio book after not being able to focus on print. This would have been a good project for "Outer Limits" or such tv show. In an audio book there is a performance. Even with that, it was unfullfiling after two performances.
Cuento atrapante desde su inicio, el tema central: Rarezas entre el sueño y la vigilia, las alucinaciones hipnagógicas son algo eterno y demasiado interesantes. Relato corto pero sustancioso, se lee rápido pero te deja pensando por un largo rato. Muy característico de Borges.
This is what I call a MASTERPIECE!!
That Borges guy sure was dreamy.
El final es lo que hace que el resto del relato valga la pena. Nunca me lo espere.
*3.5*
A pretty unique short story.
может вы кому-то снитесь??старая история. соус положить забыли.
The twist at the end was amazing!
Since I read this so long ago, I don't remember it well enough to give it a rating at this time.
Reading this short story by Borges was like taking a long lick off from a lollipop made out of LSD. Taste the colors!
Dreams, creation and identity. A surreal masterpiece, something far above my qualifications.
I've been enjoying Jorge Luis Borges lately. This is a very short story, but it's packed with good and interesting information. It covered the subject of dreams and where they intersect with reality and creation and the fine line between them all. It almost had a "living in a simulation" feel to it, at least from my perspective. I'm learning he was one of the early pioneers of "sci-fi" writing and have been enjoying some of his short stories that I find require a couple readings to truly get them.
Si hay personas que odian leer es porque no han conocido a Borges. Su escritura es simplemente genial. Usando el toque justo de filosofía y una gran historia ha logrado una gran obra. Este corto cuento es del tipo que te hace cuestionar, es un libro que me hizo regresar varias veces y meditar sobre lo leído. Completamente recomendable.
“The Circular Ruins”“He wanted to dream a man; he wanted to dream him with minute integrity and insert him into reality.” The Circular Ruins is a unique take on Frankenstein (p31)- -
Something about Borges’ way of organizing words and his courageous imaginings, none of which I can analytically explicate, imbue every story with another reality than I have known.
Creo que uno de los cuentos de Borges más lindos que leí. Es corto y no dice mucho, pero tiene unas descripciones que son hermosas y vívidas. Me quedé con ganas de leer un poquito más.
Li 3 vezes pra pra conseguir entender. Foi o primeiro conto do Borges que li. Mas o engraçado é que depois desse, os outros contos dele que li não me pareceram tão difíceis de entender quanto esse.
Delightful and circular.
