https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231850.Corduroy
Corduory is the tried-and-true story of an outcast toy in search of an owner/happiness. As a sort of allegory for that, he's also missing a button. And at the end he finds them both.It's well written, well illustrated, but the only adventure Corduroy goes on is up an escalator in a mall--not exactly the most exciting thing. On top of that, it doesn't really have any surprises or twists or ups-and-downs. The Velveteen Rabbit just seems like a much better version of the same story.
I'm not entirely sure why, but when reading this book aloud, I'm always compelled to give Corduroy a (very bad) British accent. I think I mix him up with Paddington in my head. But [SPOILER ALERT], there's no marmalade in this book. Lots of hullabaloo about buttons, though.
I remember reading this as a child and now enjoy reading it to my little girl!
This is my second favorite book ever.
It was the first book I ever read that had a lead character that looked like me.
(And no, I don't mean the bear.) The little Black girl, (Penny, I think?) was well groomed and cared for, and SO nice.
People out there who've always had characters in books and magazines who look like them won't 'get it'.
The significance will be lost on them I fear.
But it's instances like that that help establish a child's self-esteem and community worth.
Oh, and the shopping one-on-one with Mom was pretty significant too...
said the girl with three siblings.
The manuscript draft where his editor makes her comments is so enlightening and would interest anyone who is or is interested in being a writer, I think (it's great to see that even genius authors like Don Freeman needed that collaboration and other insight to make their work truly sparkle).
I also would have liked to know a bit more about the children to whom he dedicated the book and spoke of in his correspondence (I guess they might be relations of the editor, perhaps?) All in all, though, I highly recommend the 40th Anniversary edition to anyone who is a fan of the book or looking at a bygone era of author-editor relationships.
Got to read one of my old favorites to the kids at work today :)
This book was awesome when I was a kid, and it still is.
This book was traumatizing, but it was still completely AWESOME!
It has a feelgood ending to it when he gets his button back, and the little girl takes him home.I don't have a copy of this book; I need to get one.
I remember reading along on the television, though I really couldn't read then.
This was back when TV would show the pictures that were in the book, and a narrator would read what was on that page.
I think I watched/read this book/show several times back then.
I think I've found a new favorite book.What is this stuff falling from my eyes? YES, I'M CRYING.My heart breaks and melts for stuffed animals and dolls, "You must be a friend". <3 <3 <3Corduroy, the cutest teddy bear, and a lonely one too, meets a little girl who will be her friend, and it was love at first sight. TEARS <3 pd: My heart can't take this.
Since it's in English, my mother had to read it to me because I didn't learn English until I was 10.
It had the most beautiful pictures ever, and the story was so beautiful.During the recent house cleaning I re-discovered this book again, and I read it on my own, probably for the first time in my whole life!
I have put it safe and sound on my book shelf, where it will stay until I have children or nephews of my own to read this wonderful book to.
Nice, warm and fun.
A classic sweet tale of a little bear that finds a home in a little girl's heart.
Just like Lisa, the little girl in Don Freeman’s children’s book, who buys Corduroy from the toy department with her piggy bank savings.Corduroy sadly believes that his missing button is why he’s still on the shelf instead of at home with the little girl so he goes on a search to find his button.Lisa reappears and buys Corduroy anyway, loving him whole, despite his missing button.
On his button-finding-journey, Corduroy believes he has found a palace (the second floor of the department store) but when Lisa shows him his new room, although much smaller than the palace, he knows he has found a home, something he’s always wanted.
I love this cute little book about a bear in green corduroy overalls. It is definitely on my list of books to get for my own child (if I have one). I'd also want to get a Corduroy bear, too.
store I feel that the main story is Lisa the little girl who sees him & loves him the way he is, so much so that she counts her money to go back and buy him.
She takes him home to love & care for because she feels a connection to him.
I feel like at that time a lot of groups of people had felt that way~ minorities & women especially- that were looking for a friend.
A good story for children to learn about the meaning of friendship & responsibility & finding a bond for friendships.
Corduroy has an wholesome, old time feel to it. My toddler daughter and I enjoyed reading this together. I liked seeing things happening through Corduroy's eyes. I was rooting for the little guy to find a home and for someone to look past the fact that he wasn't in perfectly new shape. If we owned this one, I could see my daughter requesting it over and over. This was a Children's Picture Book Club read for the month of December:http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/7...
My mother raised me on Corduroy and now I am continuing tradition with my little one. This book will absolutely always have a special place in my heart.
Corduroy bear is on the search for a missing button that has come off his clothes. He finds one that he thinks is it, but it is attached to a mattress where he lives in the department store. He has always wanted to live in a home, and in the end gets his wish.
One of my all time favorites as a kid. Also one of the reasons I can't get rid of stuffed animals, but I also blame Toy Story for that.
Read at Storytime on June 13thTheme: Classic StoriesThis was the first pick for Storytime to begin our reading. The kids love Corduroy and his adventure to find his missing button. There might have been some sighs of happiness at the end when he finds a home with Lisa.
To check out my reviews: http://dancinginth3dark.blogspot.comI remember seeing the cover of this book and I thought I had read it and seen the movie but I mistaken it for The Tangerine Bear which is practically the same story of a toy bear who was abandoned because no one wanted to buy it.
Can I just mention that the ending felt less Toy Story and more Chucky?We meet a bear named Corduroy who has a missing button and no one wants to buy him.
This was my favorite book as a very young child. I bet I carried this book EVERYWHERE!!! Such a classic!
The little teddy in green overalls lives at a department store waiting for someone to buy him.
A little girl once stops but her mother instead of having a discussion on weather she really needs another toy, pocket money, or such thing, says that the bear looks old and that she has spent too much already on herself and therefore cannot spent more to buy a toy.
On October 2, 2008 parents and teachers across the globe read Corduroy in unison as part of the Jumpstart program.
A young girl named Lisa falls in love with Corduroy but her mother says NO making a remark about his missing button.
After all the customer leave Corduroy is on a mission to find the lost button.
From escalators to the security guard Corduroy never finds his button.
The next day Lisa comes back to the store, she buys Corduroy and brings him home.
At home Lisa sews Corduroy a new button on his overhauls.
Having several Corduroy books, I was curious to read this one, seeing as how it's the one that shows Corduroy's beginnings. Nothing unique or original about this story, it falls between a level 1 and level 2 reading level for children. Nothing about it really held the attention of my kids, and so we weren't impressed. The illustrations were probably its only redeeming quality and even those didn't stand out too much.
Not convinced that Corduroy really should find his lost button in the first place. Sends message that he is not worth buying unless someone fixes his button problem. Overall, disturbing and unamerican.
You must be a friend...
Read In FebruaryI loved reading this to my son. He enjoyed it as well. Such a classic, love it!
My reading challenge included the category "a book from your past that always makes you smile" and I knew immediately what I was going to read. I read this book to my brothers when they were small and continued the tradition with my children when they came along. It is one of my all time favorite books, and today, on my brother's 40th birthday, it brings a smile to my face (and maybe a tear) and some wonderful memories. Definitely one to share with the little ones in your life, and the Corduroy in theirs.
Mom recently got me some new literary onesies and one of them has Corduroy on it. She said we had to read the book so if one of my colleagues at daycare asked me about it I would be prepared to discuss. I thought it was wonderful!
Still one of my favorite childhood stories.
