https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26025580-the-grownup
The first part of this short story is... expected. It is exactly what I would expect from Gillian Flynn. An unnamed female narrator manipulates people every day in her job - from giving hand jobs to wealthy men to reading people's "auras".  I didn't stop giving hand jobs because I wasn't good at it. I stopped giving hand jobs because I was the best at it. She's smart, ambitious and perceptive. She has a laid back attitude towards sex, even as a form of manipulation. And she isn't afraid to screw
It is exactly what I would expect from Gillian Flynn.
An unnamed female narrator manipulates people every day in her job - from giving hand jobs to wealthy men to reading people's "auras".
I didn't stop giving hand jobs because I wasn't good at it.
I stopped giving hand jobs because I was the best at it.
This is a character we would expect from Flynn.However, the middle part of the story was, for me, the strongest.
"Reveals" and "twists" went back on themselves (or did they?) and the ending gives us nothing.
the voice is excellent, and it showcases flynn's mastery of writing sympathetic bad-girl characters - in this case a woman with lots of stamina and no pride, taught the art of the sympathy-con as a little girl at her lazy mother's knee, through which experiences she learned the fine art of reading people: pinpointing what they want and how they want to see themselves and manipulating these into profit.she's transitioning out of the soft-core sex trade, where For three years, I gave the best hand job in the tristate area because of health reasons:I quit because when you give 23,546 hand jobs over a three-year period, carpal tunnel syndrome is a very real thing.fortunately, Spiritual Palms is a business that provides handies in the back room, divination in the front, and for someone who has spent her life picking her marks and manipulating and milking them for results (and of course i am talking about her sob-story begging here, why you so scandalous?), aura-based spiritual advisory is a career that comes naturally.
VERY GOOD AND CREEPY MUCH WOW
I loved the book! What better compliment can I say?  TWISTING YOUR MIND Gillian Flynn! You did it again!I loved to read this short story!I loved how Gillian Flynn, the author, played with my brain. At the end of the reading, my mind was so screwed up (but in the good way!), that I was thankful that she didn’t gave up a clear explanation about what just happened in those couple of hours while I was engaging into the book.Sometimes you need explanations, and I have no doubt that some people need
You did it again!I loved to read this short story!I loved how Gillian Flynn, the author, played with my brain.
At the end of the reading, my mind was so screwed up (but in the good way!), that I was thankful that she didn’t gave up a clear explanation about what just happened in those couple of hours while I was engaging into the book.Sometimes you need explanations, and I have no doubt that some people need those explanation all the time, but in my case, all depends about each reading’s journey in particular.
So when the story started out with a women who gave perfect hand jobs- I said "YAY!!!
So good for yooooou....but tragedy strikes quite quickly....Ms. Handjob Girl- works at Spiritual Palms- a place that provides hand jobs at the back- while giving psychic readings out front.
I usually take off some points....and here I am doing that BIG TIME.This veeeeeeeeeeeery short story- was 2/3s explanation at the end.
read it for the first time in the Rogues anthology and loved it. bought it as it's own copy and loved it even more the second time around.
1 "this short story is the biggest scam and piece of crap" stars.
2016 Book I was most afraid to Hate (Runner Up) This book f'in infuriated me!Some of you know I was not a big fan of Gone Girl (2.5 star read).
This is the biggest sociopathic money-grab I've seen in publishing.I read this in 25 minutes and I borrowed it from the library.Waste of time about a poor con-artist who tells fortunes and gives handjobs who gets caught up with a rich con-artist and her disturbed stepson.
While The Grownup had a publication date of yesterday – the story actually came out back in 2014 under the title What Do You Do?
(Sidenote: New title is mucho better) which was contained in the short story collection Rogues.
Don’t let my rating fool you – it’s because I fail at short stories, not because the story itself was a failure.
I have a teenager and I’m always struggling to figure out if he’s possessed by a demon or simply hormonal .
Whatever the case may be, it’s Flynn so some twists and turns and stuff and things then ensue.
But again, it’s Flynn.
It takes some serious skill to write a story that is so layered and has such well-developed characters in only 65 pages. But leave it to Gillian Flynn to do it. I loved this modern take on the classic haunted house story. It's messed up and so well executed. She's really great at creating voices that are identifiable and confidently written. Once again I'm out of Flynn material to read. Can't wait for whatever she comes up with next.
A 64 pages like..having A Hand Job....for the mind by A Real Hand Job & "Aura read" expert, A Desperate Housewife, An Ancient Creepy Victorian House, A Wicked 15 years old boy -but looks 12- AND Gillian Flynn herself.Gone Girl جيليان فلين مؤلفة ستتلاعب بعقلك بشكل جهنمي هنا،مع فتاة خبيرة في منح الرجال العادة السرية وأيضا قراءات هالات البشر الروحية , ربة منزل بائسة, منزل فيكتوري مقبض مرعب , وطفل غريب الأطوار في الخامسة عشر من عمره -شكله فقط 12 عاما- لمدة 64 صفحة بصراحة لا أنكر انني صدمت بالسطر الأول من الرواية.ومهنة البطلة ...لا أدري إن ترجمها مترجم كبعض من على الساحة لجعلها أسوأ مما يمكن، و لكن جيليان فلين لها أسلوب قاتم في رواياتها ..صادم ولكن ليس فاحش...وهي متخصصة تقديم نماذج مضهطدة من النساء..أو تمر بمرحلة من اليأس الذي قد يدفعها لمثل تلك الأشياء الصعبة مثل قراءتي الأولي لهاSharp Object's Reviewوبمرور الأحداث وبدء العنصر الكئيب المرعب به شعرت أن السطر الأول لم يكن له أي داعولكن صدقني , المؤلف الممتاز لا يترك تفصيلة دون ان يكون لها لزوم بالأحداثبالأخص في مثل تلك القصة القصيرة التي , قامت بفعل فاحش في عقلي بنهايتها العجيبة ومع ذلك , أعجبني!!!!
5 STARSThis is a short story, people!
Don’t get your panties in a twist saying you don’t understand such a short weird novel.
Yes, it’s short!
Yes, it’s weird and dark.
HELLERRRRRR...it’s Gillian Flynn 😍😍If the old Twilight tv show and the lovely Black Mirror series were shaken and stirred.....
well, you would have this itty bitty book to drive you crazy.I love a great short story, typically they concentrate on creating a mood, rather than a plot.
If you’re aching for Flynn’s next blockbuster novel, this baby should help tide the cravings.
It can also help you meet your GR reading goal😂
But because I knew how short it was that part didn't bother me as much.Like quite a few other people I've been anxiously awaiting something new from Gillian Flynn.
For some this may fill that need but for me it just left me sort of ....MehApparently this was originally titled "What Do You Do" and was published in a collection of short stories, edited and compiled by George R.R. Martin and Gardner Dozois.
It's said that George R.R. Martin asked Gillian Flynn to contribute a short story for his collection.
(The ending made my eyes roll, but more on that later.) It seems that the writer is a keen study of the human condition, her snark is cold yet captivating and really cuts to the truth.
(view spoiler)[ I hate an ending that leaves things up in the air.
To leave it up for the readers to decide isn't edgy, it isn't new, it's obnoxious.
This fucking Schrödinger's Box mumblecore bullshit where the audience and the MC don't know the truth ruins the whole thing.
Either way, it will end with a cliché of an angry wife out for revenge or an evil stepchild.
Audiobook....freebie from the library....Having 'zero' knowledge or information about this book...I downloaded it...only remembering that I saw it around on Goodreads.
I couldn't even remember how people rated it, let alone what it's about.If the start of this book doesn't catch your attention, no book will.
Gillian Flynn had a line that made me laugh enough to want to remember it and come home and share it with Paul:"I would rather be a librarian, but I worry about job security, books may be temporary...dicks are forever." Come on...
Despite the short length, The Grownup is another fantastic example of Gillian Flynn's talent in creating a tense,creepy tale through her terrific writing.The short story follows a fake psychic who agrees to help Susan as she's encountering problems with her 15 year old son, Miles and believes it could have something to do with their new house.This is another chilling tale by Gillian Flynn and never turns out how you expect it to.I really enjoyed how the story unraveled, although I felt it could have been a bit longer.
I'm not usually one who loves paranormal or ghost stories, but I do love Gillian Flynn's work so I wasn't about to shy away because it's a genre I don't usually gravitate toward.
Fair enough, I suppose except it's not just this house that's seemingly crazy - the client's stepson apparently wants them all dead as well.
As the story goes on, we, the readers, are faced with the question of whether it's the house or the stepson that's really the problem.
This short story has been touted as Flynn's homage to the traditional ghost story.
I was unaware you could get carpal tunnel syndrome from giving too many although I guess any "job" comes with its occupational hazards.This story isn’t about hand jobs though.
I need a longer story, Flynn!
When I read your acknowledgements you wrote this little story for George R.R. Martin upon request, I thought, Damn It!
He needs to finish the big honking finale to the Game of Thrones, which his fans have been waiting most impatiently for.
He’s got work to do, Flynn.For me, you’ve given him a distraction and for that I’m giving you a 3★.
I am big fan of Flynn's writing and love her capacity to entertain the reader while exploring very dark stories and characters.But The Grownup shows a more humorous side of Flynn than anything I'd read from her in the past.
She's quite the character!With a cast that includes a haunted house, a creepy dark-hair teenager and even an old tomcat, the Grownup might sound like a cliché ghost story but it really is not that at all.If you are looking for a King-like spooky reading experience, I'd advise you to lower your expectations, I doubt The Grownup will provide that.
I felt there was a complete story here though.
My only complaint is (view spoiler)[this isn't really a ghost story!
I liked the twist(s) at the end, but I was more looking for that ghost/supernatural aspect.
I feel like we got classic Gillian Flynn in this one, which I always enjoy, but thought it was going to be a bit different.
(hide spoiler)]Before reading:When I first noticed a friend added something new by Gillian Flynn:....then when I saw it was only 64 pages:Of course I will read it, but I'm still hoping for another full length novel soon!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
HA! I bet you've never read a novel that begins like this one.........I went to bed last night shaking my head and smiling after reading Gillian Flynn's new short story. (written for George R. R. Martin)Yep, it's dark, Yep, it's creepy-weird, and Yep, it has an ill-fated ambiguous ending and a nameless narrator. (no more hints)What do you believe? (view spoiler)[(I think she should have kept her "hand-job!") (hide spoiler)]
**Re-read it 10/2018 - I feel like this needs to be turned into a Netflix movie, it would be perfect. **Re-read it 9/24/17 and loved it just as much as the first time I read it. It's spooky, insane, and it's an awesome quick read for the fall. __________________________________Of course this was a crazy mind-fuck like her other books and I loved every moment of it. I'll talk more about it in my November wrap up. :D
Gillian Flynn does it again!The Grownup was written in a completely different vein from what I had expected, given the genre of her other books.
She approached poignant and touching subject matters with a realness and a rawness that tempered the melancholy of her situation, when it would have been so easy to have been beaten by her wretched past.The story seemed to progress in a predictable fashion and I felt the plot a little recycled from numerous spooky films.
But this is Flynn's utter magic: she lures her reader into a false sense of knowing where they are going before taking them completely unawares!
1.5 A rather steep price is wanted for this short story.
9.99 for the book, 2.99 for kindle.
Luckily I did not pay for it.
The story was originally part of an anthology and possibly I would have liked it better there, surrounded by other writers and other stories.
Or maybe not.
The reading public can be fickle, could she be forgotten in the rush of new authors, new books?
Of course her name guarantees the ridiculous price.
Since I didn't like it but didn't pay for it I don't feel ripped off, just taken advantage of.
The first few pages through me off a bit, but once you get to the house the story turns into a lot of fun. Only 64 pages, but worth it. I really enjoyed the ending which left you with a big question mark.If you like Jillian Flynn go ahead and read it.4 out of 5 stars.
Here's the big-time anti-snooze opening line:“I didn’t stop giving hand jobs because I wasn’t good at it.
I stopped giving hand jobs because I was the best at it.”Hm...that looks a little loud and shocking in boldface!
For a minute, I was worried that the whole story might be about hand jobs—maybe it would talk about methods and mistakes or other seedy aspects, which I have no interest in pondering.
It's super short (64 pages) so you can read it in one sitting.
The small cast of characters consists of the hand-job-giver turned palm reader, a distraught housewife, and a possibly sociopathic teenage boy.
“People are dumb. I’ll never get over how dumb people are.” ― Gillian Flynn, The Grownup3.5/5A well written short story. Mysterious, suspenseful and totally satisfying.
Actual rating: 4.5 🌟 I went into this thinking I'm not going to like it very much for two reasons:1.
It has the lowest rating out of Gillian Flynn's books.2.
I think this would have made a very decent full-length book.
It probably would have been better that way actually, since the twists and turns came very suddenly (sometimes a bit too sudden for me to follow).This obviously isn't the greatest piece of fiction ever written, but it definitely sped up the bus journey I read it on and made me second-guess if maybe I should try reading short stories a bit more often.
I’m not surprised that I liked this short story by Gillian Flynn since I absolutely loved Gone Girl. It reminded me of Apt Pupil by Stephen King (you should check that one too). The writing style is really beautiful and it draws you in from the first paragraph. And the plot twist was nicely made. I’ll give it plus points for the great dialogue at the end.
This was a complete waste of money. I truly feel like I am the one who was tricked, conned, taken advantage of. I wish I had given this $3.00 to a homeless person. I wonder if Gillian Flynn will donate the proceeds of this to charity.
Flynn is a fucking queen, and that was the greatest first line ever.
