https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29396.Furies_of_Calderon
Romans and Pokemon.That was my initial reaction when I heard of Codex Alera's concept and I am sure your face looks like this as well (don't deny it fellow readers,it's a normal reaction).And to answer your next question,NO it was not lame and weird,YES it was a brilliant,brilliant high fantasy book.You're intrigued,aren't you? The story Alera is an empire similar to Rome regarding the social layers,the administration and the army,founded by the descendants and the camp followers of the Lost Rom
Jim Butcher is a miracle maker.Furies of Calderon is the engrossing,addictive first book to one of my all time favorite fantasy series.His world-building is spectacular and flawless,he created a vivid world I'd give anything to live in (just not when there is war raging,duh!).Usurpers,spies,traitors,barbarians,slaves,citizens,powerful furycrafters,men and women,adults and children,all of them are pieces of a puzzle of intrigue,politics,secrets,battles and sieges.Do you want fights?You get them.Do you want interesting characters?You get them.Do you want romance?Plot twists?Beings of immense power?You.get.them.
2.5/5 StarsFuries of Calderon is a good beginning to a series but honestly, I’m quite disappointed with it.I’ve heard a lot of great things about Butcher’s books, and although he’s most famous for his Dresden Files series, all the things I heard about that series didn’t spark my interest in it.
Don’t get me wrong, I seriously love action scenes in the book I read, but for me, the characterizations are more important, especially for a huge six-book series like this; it is pivotal for me to be able to care about the characters first.
I don't really read a lot of high fantasy.
I have my ideas, though...I've been reading Butcher's urban fantasy series, Dresden Files for a long time now, but I've avoided reading his Codex Alera stuff because it sounded too weird for me.
Some of us don't do well with that sort of thing, you know?!Plus, this book has a lot of mixed reviews among my friends.
vibe happening, so I never felt any pressure to pick it up.But I was always kinda curious...Ok. You know what?After all that worrying, it turns out that I liked it.
Jim Butcher made a bet he could write a fantasy book(s) based on Roman legions and Pokemon.This is the result.
If you need another Dresden fix before the next book of this better-known series is published look elsewhere.
So if you look at exciting but mindless fantasy read this book is for you.
If you want a book which would make you think about the meaning of life this is exactly the wrong one.In the conclusion I need to explain why I kept saying that this is not Harry Dresden series.
Nor do all of the good characters need to be noble and upstanding.The elemental powers drew strong parallels to Avatar: The Last Airbender for me.
While reading this book I kept thinking, "NOW would be a good time for his powers to suddenly come into affect....ok how about NOW?!" This is the one positive thing about this novel, and at least it is a valid drama point.
As much as I would like to know whether he ever does get his powers, I was definitely not planning on finishing the series.
Sorry about the added trouble!Here is a highly expurgated version which does not mention the author, as I do so hate breaking rules:The story takes place in the Calderon Valley of the Kingdom of Alera, where the descendents of the lost Roman legions apparently settled thousands of years ago.
Alera is a savage, hierarchical land, with a failing high king who is the last of his line, a set of scheming lords anxious to relieve him of the burden of office, an economy built upon slavery, and a tendency try to massacre the members of the neighboring lands.
Read from December 26, 2015 to January 03, 2016This review is for the whole series (spoiler free).
First of all, I would like to say that reading some other reviews, you will get the impression that the story has Pokemons, or at least something similar.
It has nothing to do with either them, or anything resembling them.Codex Alera is a nice fantasy story, taking place in Alera, a realm strongly resembling the Roman Empire.
All of the story arcs, and i do mean all of them, are far stretched.
I really got tired after the 3rd book.
$1.99 on Amazon, go grab your copyhttps://www.amazon.com/Furies-Caldero...I became a fan of Jim Butcher after reading book 3 in The Dresden Files series, it was a superb book.
Codex Alera is totally different than the Dresden series, and Furies of Calderon proved for once and for all that the author is much more important than THE great idea (if you don't know what I'm talking about - this book was conceived as a result of a bet.
While Butcher was trying to prove his point that the author has a greater role in writing a good book than the importance of THE GREAT IDEA.
Actual rating: 4 Stars Back in the late '90s, maybe early 2000s (don't feel like looking the exact date up), Jim Butcher made a bet with some stranger on an online forum that he could make any 2 ideas into a good book. That man chose the Lost Roman Legion and Pokémon. This is the result of that bet. Now that we have a bit of the backstory on why it was created, let's talk about the result. The story follows 4 POVs; Tavi, Fidelias, Amara, and Isana. Furycrafting is basically the name of the magic
Back in the late '90s, maybe early 2000s (don't feel like looking the exact date up), Jim Butcher made a bet with some stranger on an online forum that he could make any 2 ideas into a good book.
He was able to keep his magic system, the furies, feeling fresh and original and not like a blatant rip off of the games.
I was really scared to pick this book up because of how much I love Dresden Files and I wasn't sure if he would be able to pull something else off unrelated to that series.
Furies of Calderon is your typical fantasy epic.
Only, the true hero of the story is not only powerless...
No, the true hero is now only powerless, he's the ONLY powerless character.
Making him the hero is brilliant, but better yet is not making him do things so unbelievable as to nullify the fact that he's powerless compared to everyone around him.
The Dresden Files' first person narative is the only way those stories could work as amazingly as they do, but the multiple view points in The Furies of Calderon turn it into a vast reaching epic, every bit as expansive as Dresden is intimate.
Felt neutral over Isana and didn’t care much for Fidelias, even though I was impressed at the beginning by how cunning he is.
It was so dry and so distant from the characters and their feeling and what they’re thinking.
The magic and world-building Pokémon and Roman inspired.
I think it lacked because of the lacking in the world building.
Because of the lacked world building I found myself not caring much about the plot.
But I wish the writing wasn’t dry.
Because it’s the reason I didn’t fully love this book.
I am interested to continue and see what happens in the rest of the series.If you're looking for an amazing writing style...maybe look elsewhere.
I had no problem imagining what was happening, but there wasn't anything particularly wonderful about how Jim Butcher wrote his book.I would recommend this series for people who are intimidated by high fantasy and maybe want to dip a toe in without committing to the intricate web of characters and intense lore that can sometimes be associated with the genre.
I imagine as the story builds on itself it will get more complicated, but overall I found the world very manageable.Excited to read the next one!
I am a huge Dresden fan and loved the unconventional means by which this series came into existence –It’s basically a series of half a dozen books set two thousand years after a lost Roman legion travelled through a rift to a world where pokemon exist, and now the legionnaires live and work with pokemon, except they’re called “furies” (I’m not even making this up, he did it as a dare after being called on one of his assertions by a crowd at a convention: He said everything in writing is about execution.
He doesn't explicitly lay out the rules for you, but you still pick up on them pretty quickly!We also get a great, self-contained conflict in this book.
It's clear that there are larger things at stake, and that there's a bigger game yet to be played, but this felt like a complete book, which feels unique for the start of a series.
Butcher perfectly toes the line between creating a story JUST for this book, and hinting at greater things to come.I will say that I went into this thinking it was Middle Grade, which it DEFINITELY WAS NOT.
I can't wait to pick up the next book in this series!!!
I consider Jim Butcher to be a very talented writer, and I have greatly enjoyed the Dresden Files for a number of years.
So when reading my complaints, you must also keep in mind that, having read all of the Dresden Files books more than once, I had a certain level of expectation that needed to be met.
R. Martin's Westeros, but Alera fails to be nearly as complex or interesting.Due to liking Butcher's other series, I will have to try the second book in the Codex Alera but I will not make as much of an effort to complete it.
The only good parts were parts where the men spoke a little like Dresden (Butcher's other major series' protagonist).
The one witch was creepy enough, and the monsters were pretty cool, but that seems to be Butcher's general strong point.I found myself thinking, "These are some of the most boring, characterless heroes and heroines I have ever read about." Pretty much the only thing you find out about anyone is what weapon they can wield, where their allegiance lies, and who they fancy.
I realized part of the way through that it has the exact same plot in general as the Dresden books, too.
Much like in Wheel of Time there is a discipline collar similar to the A'Dam. For whatever reason these get a rise out of me worse than any of the other evil things in books much darker than this or WOT.
There's just something so wrong about being able to throw a collar around a person's neck and controlling them against their will.
I liked but didn't love the characters and found Tavi and Isana to both be a bit whiny.
There also wasn't that one thing that stood out to make the book unique.
I freaking loved it and sadly that's all I liked about this book.What did I hate about this book the most?First, the fact that I felt in no way attached to the characters.
I still don't know what dark, golden brown looks like.And this book had a huge case of telling and not really showing
worst fantasy book ever, too many books like this out in the fantasy genre out there! too many tropes! so formulaic of a story! the first line on the back cover tells the whole plot to the series! please stop writing books like these! if this was written in the late 70s or the early 80s, then it would have worked a lot better and fresher I only read about 150 pages into the book and stopped
4.0 stars. Great, well developed characters, an excellent magic system and wonderful world-building and plot pacing. Appears to be the start of a compelling series. Will defintely read the next books in the series.
Ich bin begeistert. Hab mir gleich die nächsten beiden Teile bestellt :)
Executive Summary: A fun but trope-heavy fantasy story that combines a Lost Roman Legion with Pokemon.
However, she may not be well suited for this book as it has many male characters (then again what fantasy series doesn't?) and her male voices aren't as good.
I picked it up and devoured those books as well.For awhile I liked this series better than Dresden Files, but it was a close thing.
One thing was for certain, Jim Butcher wrote the kind of books I liked to read.
I am excited to continue on with it as I have heard that the series dramatically improves from book 2 onwards I didn’t feel like this novel.Tavi the ‘main’ character takes a while to come into his own.
The other characters such as Bernard, Amara and Isana all had interesting points of view as well and I’m hoping to see more from them in future novels.This book was described to me as the Roman Legions with Pokemon and I can easily imagine this book being adapted as a cartoon, if some of the less than savoury aspects such as slavery was left out of it.
Questions I had been hoping would be answered within this first book but the fact that they weren’t has definitely left me wanting more.
Entering the Codex Alera series you're introduced to some very familiar tropes, but also to some very new ideas.On the familiar side, there is a coming-of-age plot for one of the main characters, there is a political power struggle and a lot of action and battle scenes.On the other hand, the society is somewhere between the typical medieval setting and the Roman Empire.
Her journey is very interesting and she is very capable and likeable.The most obvious character development is going on for Tavi, cause his is the coming-of-age thread.
Putting it aside for now. I feel bogged down by the amount of fantasy I've read this month and it's almost spoiling the reading experience for me, though the 100 odd pages I've read, I thoroughly enjoyed. Will pick it up in the near future!
Well... THAT WAS REALLY REALLY AWESOME!I started to read this series, knowing that the authors main inspirations for these books were the old Roman empire and Pokémon. That sounds really weird but after hearing this I was very curious about picking up the first volume and I wasnt disappointed.First of all it was not very difficult to get into the story and this is a problem which I have very often with other High Fantasy series, especially in the first novel. The plot was very exciting from the
THAT WAS REALLY REALLY AWESOME!I started to read this series, knowing that the author´s main inspirations for these books were the old Roman empire and Pokémon.
The plot was very exciting from the beginning and the switching between different characters not overly complicated because the story was focused on a major point and came to an end which was relatively closed and also made me interested in reading book two in the series.Furthermore I did not read a fantasy novel for a very long time where the fighting scenes are described so good and interesting.
Or maybe Kate Reading wasn't the best choice for audio narrator.
Or maybe I've just fallen out of love with Jim Butcher's writing (I still need to try the first Cinder Spires book, so I'll hold off on judgment for now).
Maybe I need to give my paperback copy another shot, sans audio.
Regardless of the overall problem, I wasn't really feeling this one.
I loved the concept (hence the so-much-potential shelving) but it just felt like it got bogged down in...
I don't know what.
(PS Is it possible to have too much of either of those?) Who knows.
BR with my TBR twin TessyActual rating 3.5 stars.An entertaining read. Good but not great. I loved the concept of furies and liked the characters even though they're not that easily to identify with. The battle scenes felt a little bit (ok a lot more) drawn out up to the point when they became boring. But still it sets a good premise for future books and the ending made me curious as to what will happen next. If you like action and A LOT OF DESCRIPTIVE BATTLE SCENES this book is just right for you.
3.5 Stars.A thoroughly entertaining read.
Furies of Calderon isn't groundbreaking but simply a fun romp with entertaining characters.
I love the back story to this series: Butcher said that even a bad idea can be executed well and ultimately become a bestseller.
He did exactly that, and Codex Alera is a bestselling series, so I guess he won that dare.Jim Butcher's books are a great introduction to fantasy for people who don't want to deal with the complexity epic fantasy sometimes throws at you and for people who are simply looking for a fun adventure that's easy to read.
[3.5 Stars]
