https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/957971.The_Golden_Ocean
The Golden Ocean is one of O'Brian's earlier works and a forerunner of his seafaring, Aubrey/Maturin series.
However this can be very enjoyable for some, especially if you're already hooked on the Aubrey/Maturin series or if you like to read Age of Sail seafaring stories.
You get all the lovely period (circa mid 18th century) detail one becomes accustomed to when reading O'Brian.
As has been the case with other O'Brian one-offs, I never latched on to the main character with this one.
One interesting factoid about The Golden Ocean, it is one or two retellings of the same voyage that O'Brian novelized.

This is is a great way to get into the POB cult (and a great book to read if you've already exhausted the AUbrey-Maturin series). A wonderful, funny, touching, page-turning adventure on the high seas with 2 great main characters. I'm just sorry he didn't follow Peter and Sean for 19 more books!
I like to think that Jack was one of the other boys who were and they looked at each other form different ships but didn't know it.
Not that that would make any difference, of course, but there's not enough there to convince me of an OTP.Peter Palafox/Peregrin FitzGeraldWell, I had great hopes for this one, and I was kind of rooting for FitzGerald the entire time hoping he'd come to the sailoring side of things after a while, and they'd grow up to be a sort of Irish Jack/Heneage kind of pairing.
Some time ago I read Patrick O'Brian's 20 book Aubrey-Maturin sequence over the course of four or five years.
The subtlety and ingenuity of O'Brian's writing is astonishing, and the mid eighteenth century world he creates is as real and tangible as that of the 1810s in the later books.
A long running joke that weaves its way through The Golden Ocean focuses on one of the midshipmen's dreadful attempts at wit, and provides more laughs for the reader than he does for his shipmates.
There is plenty of excitement, action and a wonderful portrayal of the natural world - all of which feature so strongly in the books for which O'Brian is most famous.
This book chronicles the voyage of HMS Centurion, which started out from England in 1740 with four other ships, ordered to disrupt Spanish shipping in the Pacific.
The main character is Peter Palafox, an Irishman, who ships aboard HMS Centurion as a midshipman.
Some of the narrative is based on diaries that Peter kept during the three year voyage and some of it is dialogue between Peter and other members of the crew.I was very much looking forward to reading this book, having thoroughly enjoyed the Aubrey/Maturin series.
Unfortunately, I found the reading often tedious.
However, I kept reading, hoping to gain a better respect for the book.
Uniquely Old School I didn't want to commit to the famous series, but wanted a taste of the author's voice because of his reputation as a skilled and prolific writer.
The Golden Ocean was quite an amazing story in all its seafaring detail and British nautical language.
With all the sailing jargon and Irish-isms there could be pages where I was just guessing.
O'Brian romanticized a difficult way of life, and I think by the title I could have expected the exuberant happy ending.
If I try another, I would look for an illustrated, annotated version.
Oh the joy! Just when all O'Brian addicts were getting over cold turkey withdrawal...the publishers bring us the Prequel.This is every bit as wonderful as the Aubrey/Maturins, and the seeds of those characters can be seen in the two Irish boys who run away to sea. (Aubrey seems to be based on Commodore Anson, in fact). The jargon is, of course, like Swahili to the uninitiated, but that's the charm of it.I might add that thin as it is, this has moments of great humour...perhaps more than in the successors. Stupendous. I had to eke it out, dammit!
Audiobook versionThis is one of Patrick O'Brian's early novels and one of his first sea novels. It is, of course, thrilling and outstanding.
I'm a huge fan of the Aubrey-Maturin series (have read them all) and so I was curious to investigate some of the precursors like this book and The Unknown Shore.
While it demonstrates the incipient dry, subtle, humour that is present in the later series, it misses the amazing dynamic between characters that we get between Aubrey and Maturin in the eponymous series, and that we also (by the way) get in The Unknown Shore.
If you're interested in how O'Brian developed the later A-M Series, I'd strongly recommend the Unknown Shore instead.
A precursor to the Aubrey/ Maturin stories, it puts the reader on board a sail around the horn and back with a young Irishmen and his mate! Well done!A solid 4 stars! O'brian's ability to capture the life and times aboard an 18th century Man O'War is captivating. His characters are well developed and grow into their sea-legs with every challenge. For those that love adventure and tales of the sea, this is a great read.
No one writes a sea-faring yarn like Patrick O'Brian, with the glory and grimness, all the splendor and squalor alike, given their full due. The Golden Ocean is an adventurous, rich, delightful tale, a clear precursor to the Aubrey-Maturin books that would follow, and a worthy telling of Anson and his men's incredible feat.
Another solid seafaring tale by O'Brian. Nuanced character development, highly technical details, and realistic storyline are hallmarks of his writing. Not for the beginner, this story would be a difficult read, but worth it for anyone interested in the Age of Sail.
I picked this up knowing little about O'Brian. From what I hear now, this isn't his best. I thought it was good, not great. Maybe I'll read another.
unmbelievable writing!
Enjoyable read, very entertaining.
The storyline is very good but, the dialect makes it challenging to read at times. This is a great read for anyone looking for adventure, history and suspense!
pretty quick read, doable in an easy chair and an open afternoon, moves along at a good clip and keeps you engaged.
Anson – after a brief lull - went on to have a highly successful career in the British Navy, but the story, unlike the Aubrey/Maturin books is not told through the eyes of a commanding officer and perhaps O’Brian thought it might be hard to create an adventurous sequel with the Irish boy Peter Palafox as the narrator – a wholly fictional person His solution to what was later to prove an imaginative gold mine for him, was to fictionalise another set of events during the Anson voyage, that relating to the HMS Wager, in The Unknown Shore.O’Brian captures the essential Irishness of his two main characters in The Golden Ocean, Peter Palafox and Sean, so compellingly, it is not surprising that people came to view him as Irish himself.
Dieses ist der Hintergrund des Romans um und über Peter Palafox, Midshipman an Bord der Centurion.
Über China und dem Kap der Guten Hoffnung geht dann nach 4 Jahren die Reise in England, und für Peter Palfox, geringfügig später, in Irland zu Ende..
Patrick O'Brian hat für seinen ersten seehistorischen Roman, er erschien 1956, die „Circumnavigation“, die Weltumsegelung des späteren Admirals Anson, als authentischen Hintergrund genommen.
Das Schiffsleben wird aber aus der Sicht von Peter Palafox geschildert, dies geschieht durchaus humorvoll und manchmal etwas verschroben.
Yet O'Brian could write a page-turner when he chose to, as evident by The Road to Samarcand, an extremely gripping young adult adventure story.
I kept hoping that it'd turn out like one of the Aubrey/Maturin books and things would pick up after the first hundred pages or so, but nope, it remained dull to the very end.
Its only redeeming factor is that O'Brian was an accomplished historian and he's skillful at capturing the details of shipboard life in the Age of Sail.
Skip this one and read the Aubreyad or The Road to Samarcand instead.
I'm not sure why O'Brian spent so much time developing this Fitzpatrick only to cast him off about the first landfall the squadron makes.
But once Palowfox and O'Hara get to sea, we are treated to classic O'Brian!
Storms, the hardships of serving His Majesty at sea and as a special treat, we get glimpses of The Wager and her heroes (Byron in particular) through the eyes of Palowfox.
The best part of this book is seeing Palowfox develop from a first voyager to a competent experienced officer with four years seniority and the full devotion of his crew!
This book is concerns the first three years of the nautical career of Peter Palafox, son of the curate of a poor parish in the west of Ireland, who shipped as a midshipman in 1740 as Commodore Anson took a squadron to the Pacific to destroy Spanish commerce, and hopefully come home loaded with Spanish gold.It's a light-hearted adventure story, celebrating the joy of pushing through hardships to foreign lands to fight for riches (and coming home to a good woman's love, in the most traditional manner; the whole thing is absolutely typical of the genre as described in 
Although I have read quite a number of Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series, I have not read either the The Golden Ocean nor The Unknown Shore.
The Golden Ocean quite accurately mirrors the George Anson's voyage around the world from 1740 to 1744.
It was extremely valuable to read concurrently an outline of the voyage at the same time as I was reading the novel.
I was able to understand clearly the events in novel.
The novel primarily follows Peter Palafox, the son of a poor Irish parson, who signs on as a midshipman on Anson's flagship, the Centurion.
I'd made stabs at reading several of O'Brien's books before, but somehow I never got very far along the 'learning curve' needed for nautical terminology and the background on his main characters.
I've always been a fan of 'voyages of discovery,' and then, too, O'Brien engaged my interest in and sympathies for the central character in the book, a plucky Irish lad.
Maybe I'll see if I can't find an audiobook copy of Master and Commander, the first of the Aubrey-Maturin novels -- I have a feeling that I could easily become an avid fan.
More than a decade before embarking on his magnum opus with Master and Commander, O'Brian tests the waters of the Age of Sail...
The Golden Ocean has all of the elements that would make his later series legendary: deeply rendered characters- fictional creations interacting seamlessly with historical personalities- exacting but not overwhelming historical detail, and plenty of wry humor.
I suspect that most people come to this, as I did, after reading the Aubrey/Maturin series.
In fact, those flirting with the idea of taking on the Aubrey/Maturin novels might consider starting here for a taste of O'Brian's style.
There's no denying Patrick O'Brian writes one heck of a naval story, but this one definitely paled in comparison to the Aubrey/Maturin books.
Far too much time was dedicated to scurvy and down time on shore, rather than actual naval action.
The one actual engagement in the book was short and rather anti-climatic, considering the huge prize at hand.The main character, Peter Palafox, was likeable enough, but also a pretty generic point of view character.
There are some good character bits (mostly with the minor characters), but overall I had trouble getting any momentum going.
A worthwhile read perhaps only if you're already a fan of Patrick O'Brian.
Considering that I highly regard the Aubrey/ Maturin series, it comes as no surprise that I found this earlier work worthwhile.
Many of the hallmarks of the later series are here-- such as the camaraderie, the sense of time and place, the human sympathy, and the humor-- simply in less polished form.
The dialogue, particularly in the first few chapters, I often found distractingly unrealistic.
If that had been my introduction to his work, I'm sure I would've put the book down.
As it was, I read on and was reasonably rewarded.
This is one of O'Brian's earlier books, predating the Aubrey/Maturin series.
I highly recommend it, especially for readers who are just getting acquainted with O'Brian's nautical jargon.
He is especially attentive to the non-sailor reader, providing explanations where necessary, especially in the beginning.
There are a couple places where the plot drags a bit, or creates unnecessary characters, but not distractingly so.
This, as with his other works, is very closely hewn to actual events.
O'Brian's attention to detail and historical accuracy is one of his greatest strengths.
And, of course, if you love O'Brian's other books, you will enjoy this one as well.
He joins the Centurion as a Midshipman who has never been on a naval ship before.
Their target is the Spanish treasure galleons that sail between Acapulco and Manila.
Along the way they survive storms, sailing around Cape Horn, outbreaks of scurvy and battles with the Spanish, both on sea and on land.
At stake is a fortune that, even divided into a Midshipman's share of the prize money, will make you comparatively rich.The beginning of the story moves slowly as Peter and his companions make their way to board the Centurion.
But once on board, the author commands your attention.
