https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25853028-for-two-thousand-years
For two thousand years is an important book about the interbellum period and the life of a Romanian Jew during a period when the anti-Semitism feelings were growing in intensity and violence.
The first part described the persecution the Jew students had to endure at the university while the last part deals with the internal torment of the narrator when he discovers that some of his oldest friends are anti-Semites.
Although the friend did not consider himself anti-Semite, confides that he believes there is a Jew problem which needs to be solved.
As the narrator points out, even those Jews who re-locate to Israel will forever bear the load of two millennia of hatred.“For Two Thousand Years” is especially insightful because it explores the rise not just of antisemitism, but of Zionism in its incipient stages.
"Despair is a sentiment I have long suppressed, knowing how oppressive it is in a Jewish sensibility. I will not go back to the ghosts I have left behind. Is a 'new dawn' on the way? It surely is. But until then the dusk will be slowly gathering over all I have loved and love still."Mihail Sebastian, 1934
Then, while I was reading it, there was some parts that I related to so deeply (specifically in terms of feeling so confined and alone to my own awareness, and thereby alienated from a lack of common understanding).
Such a book is further proof of why we read, to feel less alone, to know others have felt as you do in the bare bones of existing.Our protagonist is a young man who describes his experiences of poignant existential alienation from society.
Even among his fellow Jewish peers he struggles for a sense of belonging.
A revealing novel that I will read again.
The journal of Mihail Sebastian, a Romanian Jew, written between the years 1923 and 1934 is a sobering and stimulating read.
In the early parts of the book Sebastian and his fellow Jewish students suffer daily beatings at the University at the hands of the other students.
Later in the book he passes a group of boys selling newspapers and calling "Death to the Y**s!" Initially this hardly registers with him, so familiar has this cry become, and then he says to himself, "I wonder why it is so easy to call for 'death' in a Romanian street without anyone batting an eyelid.
I absolutely have to read Sebastian's journal '1935-44: The Fascist Years' now that I have finished this.
Een vergeten klein meesterwerk uit de Roemeense literatuur. Over anti-semitisme in het Boekarest van de jaren 1920. Sebastians debuutroman VROUWEN is net vertaald door Jan H. Mysjkin voor uitgeverij Vleugels. Hopelijk staat deze roman ook op Mysjkins to do-lijstje/
When Mihail is writing about Romania, current events, or his main character's associates the book is interesting. When his main character is in an internal monologue it/he comes off as snivelling and insufferable. I feel a little bad having read this when I haven't read any Stefan Zweig, but a Romanian colleague praised it so I thought I would humour him, and I'm not necessarily sorry that I did.
Romania has it's own fascists and their target is "the other", the Jew, the eternal scapegoat.
We see him establishing a precarious existence, never quite secure and certain.I liked the beginning of this book, the way that it conveyed the difficulty of getting a university education as a Jew in Romania between the wars.
I understood the ending with its ramblings on anti semitism as an eternal curse and the contrast between stay and eke out a living or leave for the unknown that is Palestine.The middle of the book lost me.
This book is a work of art.Sebastian excellently, as well as chillingly, charts the anti-semitic waters of Romania in 1930s through the eyes of a Law student.
Sebastian draws up beautifully the differing gauges of thread joining together the complex, diverse, and inconsistent interrelationality between his colleagues, peers, friends, and professors against the political backdrop and tensions of the age.I found this book not only a heart breaking narrative of the 1930s, but also, perhaps, a prophetic insight into today's current socio-political issues.I highly recommend this first, wonderful translation of For Two Thousand Years for any thoughtful, patient reader.
i don’t know how/if i can rate this book?
it was very interesting but obviously very politically charged and some of the things the main character/author said i didn’t agree with.
i don’t think i know how to separate opinion from its literary worth?
i don’t knooooow, i don’t even think i can comment on the structure of the book or the writing style, because it’s truly all tethered to the author/main character.
however i believe i will think about it for a while (this review has far too many questions, as do i after reading this)
A very turmolious time for the country, Sebastian has accounted for this time in a very unique fashion.Presented through the protagonist's journal, the book meditates on what it means be a Jew. What it means to 'belong' to a nation, to a religion.
He has only doubts, inconsistencies, and confusion to present.
Infused with self doubt and criticism, he has no political affiliations or high moral grounds to speak of.
He criticizes himself for this too.I would not recommend this book to everyone, it's highly political, verbose and takes rereads to understand what he is trying to say.
This is an exceptional story, written as a journal or diary, by a young Romanian Jew as he moves through the late 1920's early 1930's.
There is a lot out there to read in an effort to understand about World War II from the aspect of Europeans who suffered through these hard times.
Thank you, Other Books, for bringing this work into our world.
With more understanding of what folded our world into World War II perhaps we can back up and avoid WWIII.originally published in 1934 first time in English is editionpublished by Other Books on Sept 12, 2017
Subiectivismul și emoția acestei relatări la persoana întâi creează un text vibrant, în care accentul cade preponderent pe trăirile interioare.Dacă în primele pagini din roman, narațiunea este fragmentată, alcătuită din gânduri și reflecții aleatorii, acțiunea începe să se concretizeze în momentul în care spațiul temporal devine clar.
Eul narativ este surprins în plină mișcare antisemită și este supus valului de huliganisme ce cuprinsese România la acea vreme.Sub pretextul „numerus clausus”, adică limitarea numărului studenților evrei în universități în funcție de procentul populației, începe valul persecuțiilor.
Am admirat scriitura de jurnal, care dezvăluie frământări, iubiri și prietenii, care încearcă să explice antisemitismul și revolta evreilor, care vrea să descopere esența sentimentului de a fi evreu sau antisemit pur și simplu, fără argumente, căci acestea devin doar scuze.
O carte despre sentimente și rațiuni din spatele lor.
Și din întreaga discuție și, implicit, din întreaga carte, rezultă faptul că, deși i se poate nega cuiva (în particular unui evreu) apartenența la un grup, la o idee sau la o generație, acestea nu îi pot fi retrase doar prin negare.
My wife was born in Romania before migrating to Australia age 8 with intelligent hard-working parents who never really landed on their feet in their new country.
Late at night, when the rest of Europe tunes their TVs to smut, the Romanians broadcast high-school calculus classes - something more like 2nd year university mathematics in Australia.
The people are warm and intelligent, quick-witted and hopeful - hopeful for the future of a country that sits between east and west Europe and has been savaged by both.
It is not hard to draw parallels between the anti-semitism of 1930s Europe and the Islamaphobia of current times.
A dark novel comprised of journal entries of a Jewish man in Romania as he suffers the indignities of anti-Semitism while in college and then in his career.
The novel moves at a leisurely pace, recounting events and conversations; not a particularly sympathetic hero--he carouses and contemplates his life and future--but journal entries provide an intimate glimpse into his life; issues centered on anti-Semitism but also conversations about Communism and Zionism; set in Romania between WWI and II, there's a strong sense of time and place and a sense of foreboding about the next decade; spare language, philosophical with long passages of his reflections; thought-provoking, disturbing, grim, reflective.
His prose is a pleasure to read, better still when he gets to the truth of things.
Even the real-life component: Sebastian, after publishing this book with a forward written by his antisemitic former professor, was accused of being an antisemite himself by the left and a Zionist by the right, echoing today’s political frustrations - right wing Christians don’t like us for obvious reasons, but we’re branded Zionists & asked to defend Israel by the left.
It can at times feel like the author is brushing off or excusing antisemitism, but only because he has spent a lifetime being literally beaten for being Jewish and having to put up with it just so damn often.But aside from my concern, this should be more widely read and appreciated.
The author Mihail Sebastian had taken a walk with a professor who he greatly admired.
He wants to be left alone to study his thoughts much like his uncle with all the coils, springs, all sorted on the table.
It is still a good book to read to get some idea of what it was like for Jews prior to the Holocaust but it did try my patience.I received an a finished MP3 audio Cd as a win from LibraryThing from the publishers in exchange for a fair book review.
My thoughts and feelings in this review are my own.
I used to believe it was a Jewish defect, but I was wrong: the defect arises from fervor.’MS is describing the fascist prelude to WW2 in Romania in particular and Europe in general.
As a Jew he has a personal ‘horse in the race’, that is, the fascist turn affects him and his race in particular.
Of course, the same mentality of ‘I am not racist’ is heard by multitudes today as they propose racist solutions to an imaginary problem.A highly prescient read, published in 1934, by a man who was there and suffered for it.
A must read for cultural diversity activists.
Thoughts soon.
Antisemitismus ist das Thema, hauptsächlich aber jüdischer Selbsthass. Sehr schwere Kost.
First published in 1934, reading it can be sad at times, as you know that WWII and the Holocaust is on its way, and, added to this, there's the knowledge that the author, although he survived the war, died in a road accident in 1945.The narrator has to deal with rampant antisemitism while a student, and, scarily, he almost seems to accept it - he has an odd view that Jewish people are instinctively martyrs and he resents his fellow Jews and much as he hates the thugs who attack him daily.
It's hard to believe that this is the first English translation of Sebastian's 1934 gem of a novel.
We meet our hero when he is a student and then jump forward a number of years to see his career as an architect.
The ups and downs of our hero can be felt in the prose; at times dense and at others sparse.
Written in Romania only five years before the Second World War, this novel intimately captures the thoughts and feelings of a man resigned to the fate of his own identity, whose only refuge is in individuality.
It is just beautiful and painful and human.
If you too are a strange combination of a cynic yet romantic, and your view of humanity is bleak yet you understand it for what it is and have a weird combo of outrage and peace towards it, this is for you.An observationally detached yet deeply personal struggle of having to live with these equally conflicting sides inside of you while looking at things in a time of great change and confusion.
All while managing to keep a soft, almost translucent aura to it even though its heavily charged with radical political and social ideas.
I feel pretty much the same about this novel as I do about Herzog.I am probably wrong. Terribly wrong. I care not.I still feel the same. 'I envy the supreme insensibility of objects, their extreme indifference.' 3.?
I am wandering off the point when I write of anything else, cheating my subject of me.” And so it is with the young narrator, who yearns to be left alone to pursue his law studies, despite roiling arguments among his friends about Zionism: “[E]ven though I’m in the midst of ten people who believe me their ‘brother in suffering,’ I am in fact absolutely, definitively alone.” Similarly, the young narrator yearns to be left alone, despite the political turmoil and virulent anti-Semitism surrounding him.
Although surrounded by politically-sanctioned and accepted anti-Semitism, the narrator rejects what he views as the limits of Zionism.
Mihail Sebastian1907-1945Having said that, if you are interested in what it was like to be an intelligent Romanian Jew after World War I in the midst of virulent Anti-semitism and Zionism--then this is a book for you.
"I have never had a conversation with someone without wondering if they know I'm a Jew and if they'd forgive me or not."A Zionist friend leaves for Israel and Sebastian muses, "Two thousand years can't be overcome by leaving for somewhere...Only rarely through this history of warfare, victories, and kingdoms, does light pierce the mist.
What I liked about this book was that it was very personal, one man's experience in this very anti-Semitic environment.
At times he is himself an anti-Semite, or so he says, because he sees the purpose of the Jewish people as being victims, and he hates this.
However, by the end of the book, he sees how Jews are just the scapegoats of society, and how this is actually dangerous and must be confronted.
I really appreciate this book because it is like a time capsule and examines the attitudes of people in Romania in the early 1930's.
To cling so stubbornly to this life, to renounce all else so as not to give it up, to choke it with your desperate love, to believe yourself lost when you have lost it - such a terrible inability to rise above it.Whoever has ever leaned against a tree, who has ever thought with melancholy of his loneliness, can't fail to meet death without a feeling of being a bit above it, and smiling at it nonchalantly and indulgently, with friendliness, with gentle farewell, with a certain sensual thrill.Our grieving is visceral, tyrannical, uncomprehending.
