https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124705.Good_Work_Secret_Seven
Yet another case of capturing theives, except these are car thieves who steal Janet and Peter's car while they are inside, in the backseat. A whispered conversation leads them to the thieves, and busts a bigger racket than their father gave credit for, since he didn't even bother reporting the car theft. Another quick mystery knocked out of the park, but these are starting to get repetitive. Four stars.
The Secret Seven Book 6*Good Work Secret Seven*This story is very much similar to various other SS books, especially the act of locating the suspects.
It takes a bit from here and there and collaborates everything and builds a brand new story and amazes the readers.
Susie, now, has truly become a main character and an antihero person.
The main story begins immediately after Susie's pranks.
The book also gives a heavy recap for first time readers.
Peter takes the role of a true leaders and appoints the SS committee for doing various tasks.
A hint of character development and story building is also portrayed.
The Secret Seven hunt some car thieves17 July 2014 The one thing that I like about these books is that they take a relatively short time to read (though that can be a problem in itself if you, like me, are writing a review on each of the books that you have read) and is quite entertaining as well. While the story itself was not all that bad, the edition that I picked up, which happened have been released in 2013, shows the much more modern response to Enid Blyton, especially with DON'T PLAY WITH
Another interesting thing is that Secret Seven Fireworks seems to have similar aspects to this one (though I have not read that one yet so I cannot say for sure).
While the father is none too worried about the event (simply because he got his car, and his children, back in one piece) the Secret Seven, who are always on the look out for an adventure, decide to investigate further.
So, while by this time there is little more to say about the book, or the series (simply because it is number six), it is still an enjoyable, and fast, read in which we get to see these children go out and solve another mystery.
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
I'm amused that it took me almost two months to finish reading a book that I could've read in about fifteen minutes. What can I say – other books got in the way. Fairly typical Secret Seven fare.
It was a fantastic and awesome story.
Bluntly determined, and full of that 'written whilst dinner was in the oven' Blytonian air, Good Work Secret Seven is a solid enough book, albeit one that I'd struggle to pick out of a lineup. The Seven have a mystery to solve through circumstance conspiring to present them with such, one of the boy characters says something spectacularly chauvinistic to one of the girl characters, and it's all done in time for tea. There's space here for a developing reader to test their independence (and indeed, their critical reading skills) but this will never be the highest of books.
One of the funny parts is when Janet and Barbara looked at peter in the wheelbarrow that was pretending to be a guy.
This book was about finding 2 naughty guys who stole peters dad’s car and there were 2 men inside.
Janet was sleeping and Peter was wide eyes opened like a wolf.
The worst bit about the book was when they went inside Sid’s café and a few days later they went to the police station and said they went to Sid’s café and then the Policeman said “you never go there again”.
Number six in the Secret Seven series and again one of the problems with this series is the way the characters, especially Peter are so unlikeable, in fact the only really character you end up cheering for is Jack's so called "annoying sister" Susie, and the books are at there most interesting when she appears, usually pranking the seven.
I loved reading the book
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
Not amongst the best but I really enjoyed it, like the rest :)
Good.
Tepat seperti yang sapta siaga duga, dua orang yang mencurigakan tersebut datang dan masuk restoran Sid. Setelah mereka berdua keluar, dari percakapan diketahui kalau mereka kecewa karena Sid tidak mematuhi apa yang sudah dijanjikan dulu yaitu imbalan yang kurang.
Mereka berdua akan melapor ke Q.Dari percakapan tersebut, sapta siaga menyimpulkan Q adalah nama orang dan 8601 adalah no teleponnya.
Alamat orang tersebut adalah gudang barang Barr di East End.Tanpa diduga pula inspektur datang kerumah Peter, karena informasi bahwa sapta siaga kemarin berada di kawasan dimana terdapat orang kehilangan mobil dan melapor ke inspektur polisi.
There's a Secret Seven book that I remembered vividly from my childhood; the copy I read was either published in India or a British import, and had (I thought) a scarecrow on the cover with a ghoulish green face mask and someone's real eyes behind it.
On the other hand, one of the Secret Seven books had a cover with the members pointing at a scarecrow, and another is even titled Secret Seven Fireworks.I was very surprised to find out that this is the book I'd remembered all these years.

Young detectives for grown-up mysteriesMeet Peter and his sister Janet, Jack, Barbara, George, Pam and Colin. A group of child detectives that will get tangled in all sorts of adventures that will make them juggle school attendance, homework, and the ineffable desire to solve the mysteries they stumble upon. Juvenile sense of wonder, the principal ingredient in Enid Blyton works, is a guarantee of a good moment for readers of all ages.Here, Peter and Janet's car was stolen for a while with them inside and without the thieves knowing.
seru.....dengan sedikit adat yang berbeda dengan kita sehingga beberapa bagian tidak pantas untuk diucapkan karena itulah saya hanya memberi 4 bintang karena hal tersebut.ketika membua buku ini, ingatan lama saya kembali terkuak meski lupa endingnya saya masih ingat dengan cerita ini. saat saya baca dulu waktu di bangku SMA sekitar tahun 1999 :)
In which two children are in a car which gets stolen by two shifty men. Rather than stay home traumatised forever about being left alone, they (and five of their mates) attempt to track down the crims.None of which seems to worry their parents or the local constabulary overmuch. Is Blyton really making a commentary on the negligence of grown-ups in the England of her time?
A decent mystery with a rather fun idea to solve it, some real adventuring for the gang with some actual jeopardy, and for the first time a fairly strong sense of character for four or five of the Seven at one time. This is the Secret Seven series at its best (whetting the appetite well for the more "grown-up" Blyton adventure series) so for that reason it gets four stars.
Dang, Peter (the leader of the Secret Seven) is a real jerk sometimes. He says to one of the girls, "I've sometimes thought that you're not as good as a Secret Seven member as the others are." Yeesh. Run away, gurrl, run. away.
Rasanya ceritanya mengalir biasa saja. beda dengan petualangan lima sekawan, dan pasukan mau tahu. tidak begitu deg-degan atau penasaran benar dan tiba-tiba sudah berada di halaman terakhir.tapi ini mungkin karena ditujukan buat anak-anak dan remaja. bagus buat bacaan mereka.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
Good :)
The one where Peter dresses like a Guy.
It seemed a bit strange that children were solving crimes and sneaking about at night, spying on criminals, but it was an easy read and the story was enjoyable.
kangen baca SS .... :)
AMAZING!!!A car is stolen - and Peter and Janet witness the theft! Now the Seven are on the trail of a dangerous gang.
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
Rombongan Sapta Siaga ini adalah rombongan anak2 kepo ever hahaha...
