https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23940.Junky
So given the success of my second reading of Naked Lunch I decided to read Burroughs first published work Junky (British title) or Junkie (American title).
Burroughs insisted for a long time in calling the book Junk, but the publisher refused to put that label on the book believing that the American public might actually believe it to be just that...junk.
You may find the same people both places.Ginsberg had the thankless job of editing the book and being the middleman between a disgruntled publisher and a more and more recalcitrant Burroughs.
Burroughs from Bill Lee (William Lee was his pen name and the name under which he published this book).
من أراد أن يقرأ رواية متكاملة عن عالم الأدمان ورحلة الخلاص منه، فالرواية الحالية هي الخيار الأمثل
I mean the mirror he looked at himelf in, not the...never mind.For those of you who've never met a dope addict, there are also some amusing and astutely descriptive scenes involving a period when our protagonist tries to get off the junk by assuming a regiment of absurdly excessive alcohol abuse.
Somehow Ole Willy's self-deprecatingly accurate descriptions of his drunken blackout behavior and experiences with cyclical, hangover-induced mental torture when compared with the very real dangers of morphine addiction leads to a comically black "lesser of two evils" type of fork in the road.
“I have learned the cellular stoicism that junk teaches the user. I have seen a cell full of sick junkies silent and immobile in separate misery. They knew the pointlessness of complaining or moving. They knew that basically no one can help anyone else. There is no key, no secret someone else has that he can give you.” Junky was a concise yet vivid account of heroin addiction, delineated by someone who’d actually lived the life. Though the book was often bleak, it never degraded itself by indul
“I have learned the cellular stoicism that junk teaches the user.
I have seen a cell full of sick junkies silent and immobile in separate misery.
They knew the pointlessness of complaining or moving.
They knew that basically no one can help anyone else.
There is no key, no secret someone else has that he can give you.”
Junky was a concise yet vivid account of heroin addiction, delineated by someone who’d actually lived the life.
Though the book was often bleak, it never degraded itself by indulging in self-pity or tearful sentimentality.
In fact, its subtle dry humor crackled and even spit occasional sparks.
(Masterpieces, these.) Oddly straightforward--espesh for a first novel--it valiantly emerges as some sort of sad recounting of events in all their incendiary yet undoubted existence.
So brave, so brave coming out as gay; but for a literary juggernaut, the honest truth of drug addiction MUST be depicted...
& that Truth is the passport to the future glories (the aforementioned novels).
Articulate clear-headedness here (not including however the stooge-like attitude which is adopted by Burroughs as he detoxifies sporadically through the years) definitely accentuates the entire experience (it seems to me Burroughs is an event: you cannot avoid its literary & personal worth).The brain tries to find meaning in the junkie limbo.
Like adult smarties with extra kick and an added naughty factor.Ok, that is not strictly true but you have to admit that sometimes it is difficult to pick your way through the troubled and varied history of drugs culture in literature.
I have enough problems on a good day, even when I used to use caffeine and nicotine as my fuel of choice things were confusing/annoying/inexplicable and that was just the people I had to interact with.
This rootlessness does seem to be a bit of a sham though because half way through we get the after-thought mentioning of his family back home.
φτιαξιμο σημαινει να βλεπεις τα πραγματα απο ξεχωριστη σκοπια .φτιαξιμο σημαινει στιγμιαια ελευθερια απο τις απαιτησεις της επιφυλακτικης, τυραννικης, φοβισμενης σαρκας που γερναει...
Junky is the semi-autobigraphical account of William Burroughs, Bill Lee in the book.
While we see Burroughs pushing the positives, we the reader, read the usual desperations, fear, anxiety and loss.
It is a dark and depressing tale of a life wasted.Never a mention in the book to his writing yet Bill Lee is an artist, although unsuccessful and sporadic at best.
Bill goes out nearly every night (this is the best time to make money for the following day's score) or he stays home wasted.
For the first time laws are passed to make heroin use illegal, not just supply.
I think I prefer looking at this text in its original light: a sensationalized, dime-store paperback about junkies. I just can't take this type of work too seriously. I've met so many people who hail Burroughs as genius and I have yet to find out why. While he offers a grisly account of opiate addiction, it's hard for me to say that Junky is an important piece of literature. It spawned many copy cat memoirs and was influential to the genre of confessional fiction, which I find to be overrated.
And when you finish the book you can't help but be struck by the tragedy of addiction despite the crazy ride you just enjoyed.What I loved about this was that it was a real addict describing their experiences in very "fuck off with your sympathy and your judgement" terms.
I hate the modern poverty porn obsession where middle aged white women spend all their time reading tear jerkers about sexually abused kids and recovering junkies.
These stories take real experiences and they tell lies with it.
This book does none of that.
It also doesn't make drug abuse look cool.
I loved it.
I absolutely adore Burroughs' prose; but I just couldn't find any space where I could insert myself in the book. It'll certainly appeal a lot more to those who have struggled with drug addiction; but I just couldn't get much out of it.
عندما يصبح المدمن جل همه التنبيش عن وريد صالح للحقن ولا يجد عندها سوف تكون أمانيه هي أوردتك التي يحسدك عليها سوف تعلم تماماً ما هي لعنة الإدمان وتوابعههذا الكتاب المتجلي عن نشوة المخدر بقلم من أدمن الهيروين ودرج على كل ما تحته من مخدرات يشرح بكيفية فائقة الحالة والهالة عن رحلة مضنية عجيبة مكثفة لا تستطيع أن تتوقف عن قرائتها...حالة من الإزدراء سوف تنتاب من يقرآ هذه الصفحات وتجربة ثرية مفيدة سوف تخرج بها عند طي صفحاتهكتاب وزع أكثر من مليون نسخة بيع بثمن بخس لا يتجاوز الألف دولار في وقته لدار نشر إغتنت من ورائه ...أكثر من رائع
It is certainly the odd-boy out in the Burroughs family of novels.This is not the William S.
Burroughs of The Wild Boys: A Book of the Dead (Burroughs, William S.) and certainly not the same guy who wrote Naked Lunch: The Restored Text.
Instead this an author who is stretching to reach the reader with the actual smelly, lonely, desperate, empty reality of the junky.It's a reality that Burroughs has explored in his fiction and that he has occasionally mined for characters and atmosphere.
Or read a bio on him or any other heroin addict.
You can do it once and be okay but once you're a junky you can go 20 years without and then do it once and you're hooked or sick all over again just like you had been doing it for all those 20 years you were clean.
Burroughs' theory is that it just changes your cells for life.
Besides, I don't like heroin enough to be a junky.
I read more for the beauty and flow of words than for anything else.
And although this was almost nonfiction because it was based on his life and addiction, his words, pure beauty.
I kept getting shots of Dilaudid until I realized that the pain was gone, and I no longer needed it.
Now all of these idiots are going to make opioids illegal because they don't know what they're doing.
I enjoy a good opioid kick every once in a while.
Not only do I have slight experience myself, but I know how they act on a regular basis.Reading this book confirmed everything I know.
I love THE NAKED LUNCH, and it is a masterpiece, but I enjoyed this book more.
I prefer reading books without any foreknowledge.I think that's it.
I've wanted to read this book several years ago, but it wasn't translated into my language and I couldn't find it in any English bookstores.
I think I would've given it more than 3 stars (actually, 3.5 - I want to give this book 4 stars so badly, but something doesn't let me do so.
Burroughs is one of the best books involving drugs that I've read so far; no wonder it's some kind of classic.
It actually portrays the junkie life very well, and I think that's because Burroughs had been a junkie himself.
Burroughs book I have ever finished).
The book moves chronologically, and you sort of follow along.
You know, I would like to think if I had been a junky, I would've come out of it with better anecdotes.
What stays in my mind is the description of first time he tries heroin, and an image of a woman carrying a platter with a human skull on it circulates through his brain dimly.
Another time, a junky talks about how his shit is like marble, and how he must stick a spoon up there to force it out.
This is a semi-autobiographical novel by William Burroughs (1914-1997) covering an 8-year period when he became a heroin addict.
The plot is not as thick as Roxana Robinson's Cost, the first novel I read - only last month - about heroin addition but Junky is definitely more believable what with the actual places named, the vivid and detailed descriptions of the attack, kick and how drug pushers operate.
To my surprise, Mr. Burroughs is a fag (an entry in the jive talk glossary) and there are scenes in the book when he slept with boys.
It is still difficult to read, but describes a way of life and a downward spiral.
The glossary at the end was very necessary for me.Burroughs illustartes how much junk dominates your life when you are an addict and the effect it can have on your personality and relationships with others.
The novel really did read like one of Dante's seven circles of hell.Burroughs explodes a few myths in his original introduction, but he creates a few more and medical science has moved on since then.
ამერიკული ოცნება სითხე რომ ყოფილიყო, ბეროუზი ალბათ მაგასაც ვენაში გაიკეთებდა
The life of a heroin addict30 July 2011 When I first bought this book I thought it was written by the same guy that wrote Tarzan (yes they have the same last name, but that is about it). It turns out that it wasn't, and Burroughs was not a fiction writer, but rather, as the introduction to the version that I read, the father of the beat generation. However, one does wonder how he ended up becoming a writer because from reading this book one wonders how he ever actually amounted to anything. Junk
The life of a heroin addict30 July 2011	When I first bought this book I thought it was written by the same guy that wrote Tarzan (yes they have the same last name, but that is about it).
Junky is not a book that glamourises drug taking, in fact it is completely the opposite.
From the art of Lush Working (where one steals money from sleeping drunks) on the Subways of New York to the drug scene in Mexico City, one is left with an uncomfortable feeling that to fall into these cracks is very easy, but to escape is completely the opposite.
Burroughs’s clipped sentences, his directness, his matter-of-fact statements about what things were really like, his view of a world I didn’t know about began a life-long fascination.
It’s easy to dismiss Junky because of it’s subject matter of heroin addiction; that it’s just a fad or something young adults might think is cool.
His voice could fit in with the work of hip-hop artists, conceptual musicians (oh this piece is so wonderful), and reinterpret rock classics to great effect.Despite the often grim and gritty reality of heroin addiction, Junky never fails to remind me why I love to read and inspires me to keep reading outside of my comfort zone.

من الصعب أن تتخيل أن بوروز لم يكن قريب عهد بإدمان، لكنه بالتأكيد لم يكن تحت تأثير أي مادة مخدرة أثناء الكتابة، هذا على الأقل ما تشي به قوة الذاكرة والوضوح والسلاسة التي يكتب بها.
أما الفترات التي يقلع فيها عن الإدمان فمفقودة ولا حضور لها في القص.
ومع هذا فإن الكتاب ليس مجرد جولة سياحية للقارئ إلى عوالم المخدرات، فضمن هذه المواقف المتتابعة المنغمسة في لا-أخلاقيتها والجريئة قياساً إلى زمنها، نظراً إلى نزعتها المحتفية بالهيروين خصوصاً، ثمة الكثير مما يقوله الكاتب عن الطبيعة الإنسانية دون أن يبرزه بشكل يفسد متعة التجربة أو يثقل إيقاعها المتسارع.
Siempre hemos sabido que las drogas y la adicción a éstas son fatales, pero no somos realmente conscientes hasta que nos lo exponen blanco sobre negro.
De "Yonqui" me han sorprendido dos cosas: las vueltas y triquiñuelas que los personajes deben acometer para conseguir su suministro diario (¡por Dios, qué extenuación!) y una conformidad con todo ello que te pone los pelos de punta.
Si optan por desintoxicarse será para evitar la cárcel o porque es económica o socialmente inviable seguir con su ritmo actual.La pega que le veo a esta novela es que, pasada la sorpresa inicial para los que hemos vivido siempre entre algodones y sin sobresaltos, las anécdotas y vicisitudes se suceden sin aportar nada nuevo.
The reading of the full text is up on Youtube: (Junkie) and I had some repetitive formatting work to do, so...Interesting for any number of reasons: as a detailed examination of a place and time and social class as recorded by a sharp observer directly involved with that class; as a blunt record of the culture around that class, both social, legal and moral; as an early example of the dry, "disinterested", direct and non-stylized literary voice that was to underlay all of Burroughs later, more experimental writing like a compact skeleton; as an example of how the disposable, exploitational pulp paperbacks could still offer a haven for interesting writing; and as an honest, painful account of a contemplative man's own destructive tendencies without any maudlin bullshit to smear the lens.
يذكر الروائي النوبلي "ماريو فارغاس يوسا" في رسائله إلى الروائي الشاب، وتحديدًا في رسالته الأولى، بأن إدمان الكتابة يجب أن يكون كـ"المدمن" لويليام بوروز.هنا قرأت الإدمان، بوجهه الأعنف !شكرًا يوسا على التوصية.
The book that taught me about peyotl :)Matching Soundtrack :The Gumbo Variations - Frank Zappa
(Text is unequivocal that junk is “the worst thing that can happen to a man” (8).)Non-fictive outworks proclaims that it takes “at least three months’ shooting twice a day to get any habit at all […] no exaggeration to say it takes about a year and several hundred injections to make an addict” (xv).Addiction rewrites the corporeal constitution: “when you stop growing you start dying.
The constitutional order of heroin is outside the passage of time--“When you look back over a year on the junk, it seems like no time at all.
Very. Informative, I dare say. But also truly unique.
