https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32527.Alone
The female narrator did a pretty good job even when she had to imitate the voices of a cop trained as a sniper who kills a husband brandishing his gun at his wife and small son and when she had to imitate the voice of a pedophile released from prison after twenty-five years.Twenty-five years ago when Catherine was just twelve years old, she was snatched into a van and survived twenty-eight horrifying days in a pit in the woods where she was either being sexually abused or left all alone in the dark.
When officer Bobby Dodge kills her husband, the parents of Catherine’s dead husband swoop in and try to claim custody of her four-year-old son.
This is the series to read if you want to breeze through a book and be thoroughly engrossed.
I started reading this series at number 3, and thought this was why I didn't feel a close affinity to Detective D.D Warren, but I think on reading this book, I have realised she must not be the focus of the series.
I look forward to reading about Bobby again straight away, and will be doing so momentarily as I just picked up my copy of number two.
There are many layers here where the author expertly peels away for us in an unobtrusive and expert way.
3.5 stars.While I enjoyed this one and it kept me on my toes, it didn't quite hit the mark for me.
I wasn't really connected to any of the characters.
Even the main male character, Bobby, had his shortcomings.
It's an introduction of D.D. Warren and future books and even she didn't enthral me.It is set in Boston, a city I love.
Sex scenes?
Forget it.
I love a bit of romance in my RS books.It doesn't even have to be explicit sex scenes, just a little romance.Sorry I cannot be more flattering about the book.
Lives change forever.Catherine Gagnon, the widow of the man Bobby shot, is incredibly beautiful.
Bobby knows he should stay away from Catherine, but he also sees her as a woman who needs help.
Did he do the right thing, or will doubts plague him the rest of his life?This novel is billed as a Detective D.D. Warren book, but we don’t meet her until midway through the book, and we actually see very little of her in this first of the series, so I didn’t feel that I got to know her.
I’ve read a handful of Lisa Gardner’s books in the past, typically at random when browsing for something to read immediately, and without care for whether they were part of a series or not.
And although they were all installments in a series and I read them entirely out of order, each were easy to pick up and read as a standalone.It was only after completing Station Eleven on audio, looking up narrator Kirsten Potter’s biography, and noticing that she has also narrated several of Lisa Gardner’s books that I thought to start them from the beginning.
After seeing the great reviews from my GR friends on Lisa Garner's work,I decided to try one. I started with ALONE. Very enjoyable and entertaining from beginning to end! Thank you GR friends for the recommendation.
This legal-issue-stress hangs over Bobby until the last few pages of the book.Was the rest of the story good?
When her only child Nathan was born, Catherine had some mental problems and did not appear to be a good mother.
For most of the book, the reader wonders if Catherine is good or bad for her son.
James is also suing Catherine for custody of Nathan.Richard has been in jail for twenty-five years.
Someone is now paying Richard to murder people connected to Catherine or the case.I did not enjoy the characters.
We don’t know if Catherine is good or bad, but she’s not likeable.
I read this book with my book pal Freda from " A Good Thriller" group. Freda chose this book for me from one of my shelves."Alone" is a enjoyable read,filled with action and a lot of twists. Very readable,well written,believable characters. If you enjoy thrillers,you will enjoy this.
This novel is identified as Book 1 in the Detective D.D. Warren series but she does not make an appearance until about one third of the way into the story.
The central character in the story is Bobby Dodge, a Massachusetts State Trooper and sniper, who is called to a hostage scene at the end of a long day.
A decision that will forever change his life and his career.Twenty-five years ago Catherine Gagnon had been kidnapped and kept underground for twenty eight days.
Detective D.D. Warren only has a few appearance in the story, appearing at a crime scene; breakfast with Bobby; a phone call here or there.
This makes things even worse for Bobby and Catherine who are accused of not only by the judge of arranging for the killing of of his son but also from detectives D.D. Warren and Harris.
Towards the end the horrible truth about certain characters will be revealed that left me shocked and amazed.Lisa Gardner debut in the Detective D.D. Warren series is a wonderful start to what is a great series.
The best bit for me was even at the end you the reader was left to wonder about certain characters and what roles they played in the overall outcome.
El primer volumen de DD Warren, en el que la misma aparece como mucho en tres capítulos, y apenas tiene repercusión alguna en la trama. El verdadero protagonista es Bobby Dodge, francotirador de los SWAT, que se ve envuelto en un follón por haber cumplido con su deber. Lectura facilona, pero que tiene demasiados clichés entre sus páginas como para ser considerada obra maestra. Aún así promete, por lo que seguiré leyendo alguna posterior. La autora tiene bastante buena fama, así que supongo que será merecida.
Suspenseful, riveting and exciting, Alone never lets up on its thrills and originality. Definitely a great crime thriller! :)
This was my first Lisa Gardner book. I was an instant fan. I remembered thinking "Wow! This book is really good and I can't think of what is it, but wow." The begining, middle and end kept you engaged and that's what I like about any new authors I come across. I don't expect all thier books to be perfect but I am glad this first book I read was good. Looking forward to more.
I liked this. I was hoping to love it in ways that would leave me giddy, but the spark just wasn't there. So, no serious love connection, but it was still good, solid entertainment. It kept me interested and moved at the right pace when It got down to business. In the end, I enjoyed myself, and didn't feel bad about it. I have no regerts, and I'll probably give the next book in the series a chance at some point. Still, I'm not overly eager to rush things, and I'll probably spend time with some other books first.
He followed procedure, reporting to his captain, identifying the subject through the scope of his sniper rifle...then made the split second decision which would change his life forever...he pulled the trigger.
Bobby found out the man he had killed, the 'subject', was the son of Supreme Court Judge Gagnon, and the victim was Catherine Gagnon, who at the age of 12, had been kidnapped by a pedophile, and kept in an underground cave where she suffered abuse for a nightmarish 28 days before she was found and released...she put her tormenter in jail for 25 years...but she has never been the same since.Judge Gagnon throws around a mighty amount of power and money, and he blames Catherine for his son's death...he is going to charge Bobby with murder...But Bobby's life is spiralling out of control, and Detective DD Warren is having a hard time convincing herself he is innocent!
I loved all the twist and turns of this book. it got my attention from the beginning.
Enjoyed discovering Bobby Dodge and D.D. Warren. Very happy to dive into this series. It seems I started it at one point, and then progress fell by the wayside. Too many wonderful books out there!It seems that everyone has their own machinations and manipulations. The ending was not at all what I thought it would be. Gardner did a terrific little switcheroo at the end, the lovely kind of twist that keeps readers guessing.
Exciting book and start to Gardner's Detective D. D. Warren series, even though she only played a minor role in this book. This was definitely a page turner!
Nothing special or unusual in the plot, but the author is good at character development. That kept me reading to the end despite the feeling of having heard the story before...several times, by several authors.
Bobby Dodge is a great character and I really enjoyed this story.
Bobby though, likes to do the right thing, even when it's not good for him.Catherine Gagdon has family/domestics issues and a tortured past due to a horrible incident that happened when she was a child.
You'll be surprised in the end.A great story that, while a little far fetched at times, kept you guessing and was very fast paced.The audio version to this book was read by Anna Fields.
As she always did, she was outstanding in this book and gave each of the characters a great voice.
My introduction to Lisa Gardner - I liked the book, it took me a bit to get use to her writing and to "get" the direction she was going with the storyline.
Once I got it, the reading went a bit smoother.It was a good and troubling case - lots of so-called substories that eventually came together with the main story line.
This was a great read. SWAT team member, Bobby Dodge, is involved with a terrible shooting that leaves him disjointed, separated from his team and questioning his every move. The emotional arc he experiences is done flawlessly. And Catherine Gagnon's character also experiences an incredible change. The overall story was gripping, suspenseful and hard to put down. And the ending was amazing. I'd recommend this book to anyone wanting to sink inside the pages of a good book.
I enjoyed this novel. Really love Gardner’s books. Nice twist, lots of suspense and great writing. Can’t wait to read more of her books!
I'm glad I read Find Her, Gardner's eighth book in the D.D. Warren series first as the characters in that book were considerably more nuanced while also being more engaging.Alone reads as modestly ahead of its time in that it has all the qualities of the more recent crop of domestic thrillers that dominate the charts.
I'm glad I found Lisa Gardner's work through Find Her first, because it's given me the impetus to keep reading her books that I might not have felt with Alone.
Read: October 2017Rating: 4/4 starsThe plot:  The story begins with a police sniper, Bobby, doing his job and shooting to death a man who was threatening his wife and child with a gun.
In the aftermath of this event, Bobby gets drawn into the lives of the wife – Catherine – and her child, as the situation becomes more complex.
The secondary plot involves Catherine’s past, and how the past could be coming back to haunt her.Once I really got into the story, I read this book very quickly.
Despite being the first book of the 'Detective DD Warren' series; Detective Warren is only a secondary character who barely appears on the page.
Layer upon layer of intrigue! It will leaving you guessing on the truth until the very end! So very good!
I didn't find this to be a good read.
It wasn't horrible, the writing wasn't poor, and it wasn't really annoying, but it wasn't appealing either.
The emotions and characters felt distant.
I liked Bobby and Lane and DD might have potential, but I didn't feel involved in their lives.
The abuse histories felt...
detached, unreal, and not entirely relevant.
The ending took too long and didn't give enough information.
This wasn't a page turner like Killing Floor or Fire and Ice and it wasn't intriguingly dark and evil like Along Came a Spider.
I got bored enough to want to put it down and flipped ahead and read the ending.
The sandpaper tongue of the puppy is the last straw for me!
If you have ever been licked by a dog, you know they have smooth tongues.
It’s the cats that have sandpaper.I am a novice when it comes to reading thrillers and am not a fan of Steven King.
But I do think that Lisa Gardner asks a lot.
The strange thing is, and possibly a clear sign of my naïveté, is that I still enjoyed my first experience with Ms. Gardner who gets four stars in spite of my incredulity.
Maybe that is what a thriller is all about.
This is the first book I have read by Lisa Gardner. This was a fast paced thrill ride.I was hooked after the first few pages and stayed that way to the end. I thought I had everything figured out. Well, I had most of it figured out. I never expected the twist that happened. My head was spinning!I would recommend this book to everyone.
A good start to the series.Fast paced, great character development with some great twists and "red herrings" that had me guessing right until the end.
