https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321496.The_Old_Maid
A Synopsis: A zero-sum game is played by two female cousins; a young woman is blissfully unaware of her puppet strings.The Rules of the Game: "In some variants, all players discard after the dealer has drawn.
And so she will take the Stoical route and don the garb of An Old Maid until the costume becomes a reality; she will attempt to redirect a young woman towards a more realistic path.
A Movie Adaptation: "Vividly, unforgettably, a woman's love starved soul is revealed.
Perhaps it is best to be a puppet who is unaware of their strings.
Wharton is at her best in her writing of novellas and short stories!
Both may be viewed as the mother of the same child.
The narration I have given four stars.I am giving this book five stars because it is a classic, as a classic is  supposed to be, and because I was utterly captivated by the mothers’ emotional turmoil.Novels, novellas and short stories I have read by Edith Wharton*The Old Maid: The 'Fifties 5 stars*Summer 4 stars*The House of Mirth 3 stars*Xingu 3 stars*The Age of Innocence 1 star*Ethan Frome 1 star
A quite melancholic tale about the life and struggles among wealthy women in New York City's fashionable society, and those in the correct and highly regarded big family, the Ralstons, of the mid-1800s.
‘In the old New York of the ‘thirties’ a few families ruled, in simplicity and affluence, of these were the Ralstons.
- Recommended to lovers of all those old good well written stories we sometimes forget.I LIKE - no, I LOVE well told stories
They may have written in the same time, but not about the same time … or place.Anyway, time to put things right with Edith Wharton – not that I think she’d care… but I do, not least because I don’t like having pre-conceived ideas that aren’t founded on any actual research.The Old Maid is the second of four novellas in Wharton’s “Old New York” series, which features stories set in New York, one in each decade of the 1840s, 50s, 60s, and 70s.The Old Maid is set in the 50’s and tells the story of two cousins – Delia and Charlotte, one who marries well and one who has a child out of wedlock.
Si digo que Edith Wharton escribe de manera extraordinaria no estoy descubriendo la pólvora. Y La solterona es un excelente ejemplo. Al final ha sido una relectura porque llegado un punto en el libro, me di cuenta que conocía la trama y sabía todo el desarrollo. No me explico cómo pude pensar que lo tenía pendiente y olvidarme de él por muchos años que hiciera de su lectura cuando poniéndome ahora se me hizo tan vívida la historia. Creo que tras Las hermanas Bunner se consolida de mis preferidos de la escritora.
I had seen Bette Davis and Miriam Hopkins in this 1939 adaption of Wharton's The Old Maid, years ago and loved it.
Over the years of watching classic movies, I have recently just started to read the "book based on" with relished enjoyment.
So when I knew next to nothing of Wharton, Bette Davis was the perfect Charlotte and Hopkins was the underhanded cousin Delia.
In the movie it is almost basically the same story but with some changes that in the long run are not that different than the main point, it is well worth seeing what a brilliant actress Davis was.
Leer a los clásicos es abrir los ojos a un hecho: los problemas que creemos nuevos, modernos o actuales no son más que la reinvención en la forma de los que ya tenían nuestros antepasados. Con La solterona Edith Wharton refleja con brillante prosa el conflicto entre lo que quiere una mujer y lo que debe aparentar
Sorted boxes in my attic recently and came across my long-missing set of Edith Wharton's Old New York novellas, including this one. The binding of the set, published in the early '20's, is navy, glossy and striated like grosgrain ribbon-- such a pleasure to the touch. I quickly re-read this one, my favorite of the series, and was once again blown away. The passions, mistakes, choices regretted but not countered-- all so human, all displayed so powerfully on a backdrop of crystal, lace and stern expectations. Memorable.
4,5 estrellas. Edith Wharton es fantástica describiendo a los personajes, sólo se puede comparar con Oscar Wilde en ese sentido. Habla de la clase alta neoyorquina con mucha ironía y este relato, igual que La edad de la inocencia da una muy buena visión de los prejuicios y valores morales de esta élite. Me encanta, además, que sea una historia de mujeres totalmente. No dejes de leerlo.
Los convencionalismos sociales se convierten en barrotes que forman una jaula imaginaria en la que intentan moverse con reprimida libertad dos mujeres.
Las protagonistas nos mostrarán sus sentimientos y la autora nos reflejará la maternidad desde una dolorosa clandestinidad.
Una historia conmovedora donde la fuerza narrativa recae en la construcción de unos personajes complejos muy bien perfilados y con una profundidad psicológica propia del ser humano.
La autora nos muestra lo difícil que puede ser la vida cuando lo correcto socialmente impera ante el amor sea del tipo que sea.Una joya literaria que recomiendo a tod@s.
This book far exceeded my expectations. Right from the beginning, I was so impressed with the writing. It is the story of two women whose lives intertwine and the societal and psychological implications of their choices and decisions. Excellent.
One of the best quotes I have ever read..."She found long ago she could get away with almost anything as long as she didn't stop to explain."
I'm running short on time, so I'll make this review short.I've read two of Edith Wharton's novellas, this book and Ethan Frome.
I read Ethan Frome first and absolutely detested it.
I think it might be my least favorite book out of all of the books I've ever read, and this is for one simple reason: The characters you were supposed to dislike were interesting, and the characters you were supposed to like were abominably dull, flat, lifeless, etc.I was very surprised, therefore, to like this book.
The plot, too, is interesting; it is full of lies and scandal.
Una historia breve que creo que fue perfecta para empezar con la autora. Tiene un sarcasmo muy ligero y fresco que facilitan el interés en la historia melodramática de estas primas.
"The Old Maid" is quintessential Edith Wharton -- it takes place in Gilded Age New York City, in the genteel upper crust where human passions are hidden under lace and gilt.
But any solution means that one of them will lose her."The Old Maid" takes place in the same elegantly exalted New York as "The Age Of Innocence" -- many of the families and characters of that story are mentioned, and one even knows Tina.
The secret they share brings them together, but it also causes some ugly feelings to arise.Like the society of Old New York, "The Old Maid" is elegant and beautifully written, but with highly-charged emotions running under the surface.
La solterona es de esos libros que hay que leer teniendo muy claro el contexto y la situación en los que fueron escritos porque en caso contrario, si perdemos esa perspectiva, no podremos terminar de entender la historia que hay detrás.Dicho esto no quiero dejar de señalar que en determinados momentos el libro me recordó alguna de las historias de Jane Austen y aunque hayan pasado casi 100 años desde que se escribió sigue teniendo una cierta vigencia.Las convenciones sociales, el qué dirán, juega un papel importantísimo en la historia y la crítica que subyace no deja indiferente.
This is a somewhat convoluted story of wealthier women in "Old New York" and the nature of the lives they lead. It might surprise many people to learn that I have not read any of the Brontes or Austen (hasn't everyone?); I rather imagine that Wharton can be grouped with them. Being such a short book helped with the stilted formality of the prose and still permitted me to enjoy its period flavor. Likely, a good introduction to Wharton's bigger, major works.
I've really enjoyed digging into "Old New York" Wharton-style. My favorite is probably The House of Mirth, but each of her stories I've read recently were enjoyable albeit a little depressing (some more than others).
I liked this book. It was the second Edith Wharton book I read. It was really great and I own an old first edition copy and it was the only copy I have ever been able to find of it. I would like to own an updated copy so I can loan it out. SO well written and depressing. I loved it..
"The Old Maid" is simple, but, as with all of Wharton's stories, only superficially: Charlotte gives up her child into the custody of her cousin, Delia, so that her daughter's reputation may be preserved.
For fans of The Age of Innocence, "The Old Maid" is also a treat because it features a few of the same characters.
I thought it was a stupid claim then as a little grad student, and I think it's even more stupid now after reading "The Old Maid." This story is brilliant proves ol' Edith was still at the top her game in 1924.
A mí el siglo XIX me apasiona y las novelas ambientadas en él son de mis preferidas, por lo que esta obra me tenía que gustar seguro.
Delia proviene de una familia de buena posición del Nueva York de finales del siglo XIX y está casada con un miembros de otra de las familias de la élite de la ciudad de aquellos años.
Eight Amazon reviewers could hardly be wrong, right?Instead, the novella is about someone trying to find their way into New York society, not through dishonest means but through sort of sideways means.I am not sure a got a lot our of this one, especially compared to the previous novella by Wharton that I read, but I did enjoy some of the discussions about divorce and marriage.
It’s not like in “Daisy Miller” where one cannot simply buy their way into society or where the rules are unwritten because they’re not properly bred into someone, in this novella, the costs are real, but the rules are not merely hidden, but more or less unwritten.“In the old New York of the ‘fifties a families ruled, in simplicity and affluence.
Good book, atrocious editing.Look, I'm not against choosing to reject second-edition textual changes in the name of fidelity to the author's original intentions - but please, please, please display a little bit of common sense!
If the 2nd edition printed 'won't' instead of 'wont' in contexts that clearly demonstrate the intended word to be a contraction of 'will not', it does not display textual accuracy to revert back to 'wont' with a footnote explaining that the second edition corrected this.
Interesante propuesta de la autora, que se atreve a cuestionar la supuesta felicidad plena que trae la maternidad a una mujer.  Una de las dos protagonistas reflexiona lúcidamente sobre si el ejercer de madre y esposa a tiempo completo ha significado para ella la culminación de todas sus aspiraciones vitales y concluye admitiendo un resquicio para la duda, lo cual, incluso para nuestra época, resulta casi subversivo.
Hasta ahora no me ha defraudado Edith Warthon, un libro tan corto sobre dos primas y sus vidas que se pueden resumir en pocas páginas sin perder ninguno de los acontecimientos importantes, es un gran logro que solo los grandes escritores pueden hacer. Otro punto a destacar es la minuciosidad en describir detalles completos de un salón o de una recámara, desde los colores de la pared, muebles, texturas hasta iluminación.
This was a very good short story/novella. As an adoptee whose biological mother was also a family member, I can relate to much of the story line, even though it was set in a historical time period. Some things never change, such as the speculation of parentage and conflicted feelings. This was my first Edith Wharton story and I would definitely read me. The characters were interesting and the story moved along at a good pace.
Imprescindible per molts motius. Cal llegir-la. Més aquí.
Such good writing and a really thought-provoking novella. You can never go wrong with Edith Wharton!
Breve racconto dalla regina dei romanzi sulla società statunitense.Bellissimo.
More wonderful Edith. She never disappoints me.
