https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122410.Asterix_and_Cleopatra
Infuriated, Cleopatra makes a wager with Caesar promising to build a new palace in Alexandria within three months.
Cleopatra summons Edifis, who claims to be the best architect in Egypt.
She promises Edifis that if he builds the palace on time he will be covered with gold; if he fails, he will be a meal for the sacred crocodiles.
معماری به نام نومروبیس برای به فرجام رساندن کار گماشته میشود، که در صورت عدم انجام در زمان ضرب العجل مقرر خوراک تمساحها خواهد شد.
She may have a foul temper, but such a lovely nose!"- Getafix the DruidFor the first time, another historical character other than Caesar enters the Asterix universe.
I salute Goscinny and Uderzo on their conception of Cleopatra as a tantrum-throwing terror, permanently stuck in teenage.
Even though this may be a possible crime against her memory, their conception of the queen is somehow sweet and endearing.This is the first adventure where Dogmatix becomes an integral part of the Asterix universe.
Well, whether he learns that or not, Dogmatix is instrumental in saving the lives of the team in this adventure!The most enjoyable part of this book is the dialogue in hieroglyphics and its translation.
Asterix comes to save Egytian nationalism22 July 2012 This album was somewhat more entertaining that the last one that I read though I am not really sure why. While Ceaser has always been portrayed as the villain in the Asterix albums, we begin to see more of his scheming and manipulative nature in this one. Cleopatra and Ceaser are having an argument as to whether Egypt is in decline or not, and Cleopatra decides to make a bet with him to build a palace for Ceaser in three months, however the o
Cleopatra and Ceaser are having an argument as to whether Egypt is in decline or not, and Cleopatra decides to make a bet with him to build a palace for Ceaser in three months, however the only architect that she has is really bad, so he visits Amorica to see his old friend Getafix and as a result Asterix, Obelix, Dogmatix, and Getafix all go on a trip to Egypt to help Cleopatra win the bet.
Even without having to travel to Amorica to pick up Asterix and Obelix, it would have been impossible to build a temple in three months.
Im „Original“ ist es einfach noch besser 😍
Entretenido 100%
lovely nose though.It's been a long time indeed since I read an Asterix comic, possibly as far back as me being a wee lad under the age of 12 but I can still say now at the age of 38 I still enjoy them.
When we got to the counter to scan them all in she has come across the book and turned to look at me as if to say, "What's this then?" I've just shrugged my shoulders and said, "I have no idea how that got in there but scan it anyway as you'll like it." Needless to say it's only I that has read it so far ;)I'll have to remember to borrow a few more next time we go.
Julius Caesar, while hanging out with Cleopatra, makes fun of Egypt's has-been status as a great empire.
Cleopatra defiantly claims they can build a palace to Caesar in Alexandria in three months.
Caesar will acknowledge Egpyt's greatness if she can pull it off.
After a quick visit to Asterix's village, Edifis recruits village druid and potion mixer extraordinaire Getafix to help out.
Will they be able to build a palace or will they be fed to the Nile crocodiles?This is another fun adventure.
They hit all the highlights of Egypt--the pyramids, slaves building things, the Sphinx, mummies, and the immortal beauty of Cleopatra's nose.
It's amazing what a pretty nose will get you.Old ReviewGo read Asterix, any of them.
Honestly.
Even if you're an adult.
I read them first when I was around 8-10, and I return to them periodically.
There is one level of humor for adults, another for children.
Adults will crack up over every name.
Honestly, what isn't funny about a druid named Getafix?
This edition to the series is great.
Though there is no pun on Cleopatra's name, there are pretty of comments about her nose.
A nice and amusing use of Cleopatra.
I enjoyed how the Sphinx lost its nose.
Nous sommes en 50 avant Jésus-Christ. Toute la Gaule est occupée par les Romains... Toute ? Non ! Un village peuplé d'irréductibles Gaulois résiste encore et toujours à l'envahisseur...
Interesting take on Cleopatra.
I just love it. It’s my favourite and also my favourite film. I’ve always loved Egypt and having another important historical figure other than Caesar is awesome!
One of my favourite Asterix books. Goscinny and Uderzo's Cleopatra is hilarious, and you have to give high marks to a children's graphic novel which refers to Napoleon and the French involvement in the Suez canal, has Cleopatra's food taster complaining about the amount of pearl in her vinegar, and doesn't merely turn an obscure Blaise Pascal quotation into a running joke but runs it into the ground.
As I read this, I experienced flashbacks of the movie. It's funny because, although I was raised with Astérix and co., I only remember the plot of one movie: The 12 tasks. So it was a surprise to see that I sort of knew this story.I really enjoyed it but at this point I have read funnier albums, so I have to give it 3.5 stars.Such a lovely nose!!
Ah, so that's how the Sphinx lost his nose! Ha!
Actual rating: 3.50
Amazing, always throws me back in my childhood.
This one is hilarious!!:D :D
The little Armorican village, however, has held out because the villagers can gain temporary superhuman strength by drinking a magic potion brewed by the local village druid, Getafix.The main protagonist and hero of the village is Asterix, who, because of his shrewdness, is usually entrusted with the most important affairs of the village.
She promises Edifis that if he builds the palace on time he will be covered with gold; if he fails, he will be a meal for the sacred crocodiles.A worried Edifis enlists the help of the Gauls, Asterix, Obelix, Getafix, and Dogmatix.
far far away from the village of gaul; in the heart of the land of the pharaohs the pretty cleopatra, exquisite nose and all, is engaged in a furious battle of words with none other than julius caesar, the very head of the roman empire.
the days of the great pharaohs are over.
she would build him a palace in alexandria in threes months' time and if she failed would admit that the egyptans are not what they used to be.
plus, there's his rival architect artifis to be taken into account, whose great number of slaves and talents(egyptian money) are more than edifis could possibly ever hve.
One of the best Asterix books, as Asterix and company help the world's worst architect build a temple for Cleopatra. Many great sight gags, lovely art.
Not an awful lot to say... Great fun with Asterix and Obelix, Getafix and Dogamatix as they help build a palace for Julius Caesar in Egypt on behalf of Cleopatra and her lovely nose.
Bella storia con bei personaggi (anche minori). Brillante l’uso umoristico dei geroglifici nei balloon.
A receita de humor de Goscinnny e Uderzo continuava em seu sexto álbum: nomes engraçados cheios de trocadilhos, críticas a problemas contemporâneos, transposição de fatos da época para o mundo romano, gozação com os franceses e outros povos etc.
Mas o melhor mesmo é achar na Internet tanto a capa antiga quanto o cartaz do filme!Assim também muitas das outras piadas fáceis e referências imediatas da época vão ficando incompreensíveis para leitores de mais de cinquenta anos depois.
Fica solucionado um mistério histórico: o motivo de a esfinge não ter nariz!No Brasil, os álbuns de Asterix começaram a ser publicados pela Editorial Bruguera, em capa dura, como na Europa, o que ocorreu até o nono álbum.
QUÉ NARIZ! Como reseña, por todas, dejo la puesta en Asterix el Galo. Qué suerte haberlos vuelto a leer. Gracias! ... y qué nariz!
I loved it! :D
tutto Asterix
ASTERIX EN CLEOPATRA tel sekerlik as een van die heel beste Asterix-verhale.
Dit skep ook die kans vir vele grappies en woordspelings.
Soos in die vorige vertalings van Sonya van Schalkwyk-Barrois is die Afrikaans vol wonderlike vindings.
Maar op een belangrike punt, een van die mees klassieke grappies in die hele reeks, stel sy teleur: tensy ek baie dom lees (en ek sal dit erken as ek deur iemand anders oortuig word dat ek verkeerd is), werk die aleksandryn nie.
The Afrikaans translation is excellent and captures most of the jokes very well.
In einer Szene diskutieren sie darüber, wie sich so ein ägyptischer Obelisk mitten im gallischen Dorf machen würde, parallel erscheint passend dieser Artikel bei Spiegel-Online.
Mir, als erwachsener Leser, fallen mir dann halt auch die wunderbaren Stellen auf, die ich als kindlicher Leser, und dann noch auf deutsch, völlig übersehen habe: Wie Numerobis, der Ägypter aus Alexandria, im gallischen Dorf den Druiden in Versform anspricht, und dieser sich zu seinen gallischen Freunden umdreht und sagt: "C'est un Alexandrin!" Herrlich.
Наздраве... с глътка магическа отвара! А вместо фойерверки - всеки римски легионер ще види звезди посред бял ден! Да посрещнем Новата Година с едни любими герои от 50 години пр. Хр., които със сигурност ще продължават да векуват! :) Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Asterix memang cocok disebut sebagai komik "historical fiction" (^,,^)Suka sama Cleopatra & Julius di sini...Aku suka banget, Ayah juga suka baca Asterix ini, si Beruk (adek) juga suka~Sampe sekarang kalo nemu yang bekas pun masih berusaha ngoleksi (^ ^)
