https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8146.The_Stories_of_Vladimir_Nabokov
A glass column, full of liquid yellow light, stands at the streetcar stop, and, for some reason, I get such a blissful, melancholy sensation when, late at night, its wheels screeching around the bend, a tram hurtles past, empty.
Farther on, at the corner of a square, a stout prostitute in black furs slowly walks to and fro, stopping occasionally in front of a harshly lighted shop window where a rouged woman of wax shows off to night wanderers her streamy, emerald gown and the shiny silk of her peach-colored stockings.
One only needs to read 'Terra Incognita' to see the seeds of his novel 'Ada: or Ardor' or read 'Tyrants Destroyed' to see the seeds of 'Invitation to Beheading'.
This collection is a must for those who adore Nabokov, but also an interesting introduction to Nabokov for those whose only exposure may be "Lolita'.* I am certain I am leaving out a major theme.
Each time I change,, update the review it peeks out at me but disappears as soon as my eyes focus and my fingers start to type.
For better dreams: Eat one slice before bedtime.
I love love love love love love these stories. Gems, each and every one. Praise be to Nabokov
20/09/16 I'm taking a class on Nabokov this semester and have finally been sent the reading list. This seemed like a really good collection to buy, because it includes almost all of the short stories on my set text list. The whole collection is huge, with 65 stories, and clearly it'll probably be a very long time before I read the whole thing, but I need to keep track of the stories I do need to read for class.I've also found copies of the Russian originals, and although I'm not required to rea
This seemed like a really good collection to buy, because it includes almost all of the short stories on my set text list.
I marking this as read for now (I think I've read enough to say I've 'read' his short stories!), but I'll be keeping a list below of the stories I'd like to try in the future, whenever I have the urge to dip into the collection again.For anyone looking to try Nabokov's short stories, my favourites and the ones I'd recommend were 'Signs and Symbols', 'Spring in Fialta' and 'Terra Incognita'.
Stories to read in English for class:
This book started my obsession.
I recently came across a contemporaneous, lukewarm-to-negative notice by Edmund White; glad that review wasn't my first exposure.There's so much to love here ("The Admiralty Spire" and "Spring in Fialta" are tricky, odd, and totally successful--absolute triumphs of the form), but I'm particularly attached to the impressionistic short pieces written in the mid-twenties ("A Guide to Berlin," "The Letter That Never Reached Russia") and the few but mighty stories written during the American years ("That in Aleppo Once..." and the incomparable "Signs & Symbols").
My UK Penguin edition doesn't bear the Updike laud, but a gush of James Wood: "A gorgeous book, a tutor in exquisiteness."
Nửa đầu của tuyển tập truyện ngắn này, thú thật là mình chỉ thấy thích (phải nói là cực thích :D) và ấn tượng có mỗi truyện "Một truyện đồng thoại", còn lại thì đọc kiểu cho qua chữ chứ chả hiểu (và vì thế cũng chả nhớ) gì mấy.
Nhờ vậy mới cho cuốn này 4 sao :)) Thích nhất là những truyện "Hành khách", "Mỹ nhân Nga", "Cảnh đời một quái vật kép", "Chị em nhà Vane", "Mối tình đầu" và "Mưa Phục sinh" (ôi chà, mình thích nhiều thế nhỉ?
I loved almost every story in this book.
But a few deserve special mention:'Terror', which is one of the scariest horror stories I've ever read, and one of the most succinct expressions of existential terror I've seen so far.'The Dragon', a funny and concise takedown of commercial culture.'The Wood-Sprite', a melancholy ode to classic Russian folklore.And 'Revenge', which felt like Nabokov's take on a ghoulish mystery.All the other stories range from good to very good, but I believe these are the ones that'll stay with me the longest.
I loved this book overall, and it was great to see such a master explore so many facets of life within two covers.
That bit, few words, elegant execution.Merged review:This was strange, I have not got the words but it has me thinking about it since I read it.
- because the jailed cannot be left alone so the jailor is in fact jailed to him like Martin is.Merged review:I like the language, the words.
Wonder what that means.Merged review:A slice of sorrow topped with that strange chaotic kaleidoscope of how we see the world around us when sorrow, pain, rips away all our feelings and nothing has worth any more, nothing is beautiful, we can no longer care.
Many of them are an absolute joy to read for a writer, perfection in style and pacing.
A must read in my opinion for any writer wanting to write short stories.
If you haven't read any of his short stories, "Signs and Symbols" is where to begin.
As I write this (21 February 2013) the New Yorker has "Signs and Symbols" available to read online at http://www.newyorker.com/archive/1948...
Ik heb heel erg lang over dit boek gedaan omdat ik soms de verhalen nog even wilde bewaren. Een bundel om lang te lezen, opnieuw te lezen. Ik denk dat hij gewoon op mijn nachtkastje zal blijven liggen.
After chipping away at this immense thing for something like three goddamn years, I've finally finished this extraordinary collection.
This spans Nabokov's entire literary career but, honestly, these are all so consistently wonderful it's hard to periodize them except to say that Nabby is one of the finest craftsman of the short story I've ever read.
Nabby was so much better with intimate little tales, almost interruptions.
It's hard to even begin to characterize them and probably pointless to.
It'd be like a Talmudic scholar trying to convince someone of the spiritual merit of the Old Testament: you just know it's all good.
Thích nhất "Một truyện đồng thoại" vì truyện hay và thú vị (dù không hẳn là truyện hay nhất theo kiểu của Nabokov) . Ngoài ra, thích nhất là những đoạn Nabokov miêu tả phụ nữ, rất đẹp, mỗi người mỗi vẻ.
One of the stories I liked the most featured a unique take on life imprisonment. Another involved a barber given a chance to shave someone who had tortured him in the past.
I think I'd much prefer having single collections of short stories, which are more hit-or-miss for me in general, as a reader.
* I think Poe was right about this, if nothing else, that short stories should be read in one sitting.
I find that if a short story I'm reading isn't working for me I'm sort of trapped- I'm a stickler for finishing books I start, if for no other reason than pride and the nagging feeling that the book might pick up a bit at the end or something.
Understandably, then, some of the stories are failures (at best, interesting—at worst, terribly uninteresting*), and many are devoted solely to development of the descriptive muscle to the detriment of everything else.I don't want to spend too much time on individual stories because there are a lot of them.
Happily, even the final three stories, which were written very early in his career but only published recently, are quite good; there is no noticeable dip in quality as the collection draws to a close.I would recommend this book to Nabokov fanatics who want to read everything the man's ever written.
I didn't crack the covers on this one expecting to finish it.
Which stories are written in "the original Russian" and which in English?
Need I not worry about that at all?
But I worry that certain expressive techniques don't come across correctly.
I suppose you could always supplement with a footnote.Anyway, I feel like a troglodyte saying it but: Nabokov's writing sure is artful but there just wasn't very much in it that I found...
However, "Russian Spoken Here"?
A+I expect to circle back on this collection again, perhaps finish it off, and find more to love.
The best way to put it––he stuns me.
How do I review this collection of short stories properly?
I don't know.
‘A cinematic quality’ is the best way to describe it.
Of course, any great author has obstacles to overcome before he knows how to translate his vivid imagination.
The way Nabokov describes everyday objects are remarkable.
So why 4 stars...Maybe because I see Nabokov as this magnificent, if a little intimidating, novelist and not so much as a short story writer.
The momentum and structure in shorts stories can be crucial and I'm not quite sure it's always there(?)
Nearer to the start-- this book contains every story Nabokov ever wrote, no less-- I tingled with a small amount of gloating: some stories did not work!
(They are arranged chronologically, by completion date, not publication date.) Lik, an ill actor who encounters the school bully, as adults, in a sad and decrepit coastal town, and Spring in Fialta, about loving a woman who is married to another man, are alone enough to merit five stars.The effect of living in such a book for a few months while trying to complete my own, by this time next year, is yet to be seen.
Granted, there is a slightly dated feel, and a vague, creepy whiff to the characters, but these effects, too, are part of Nabokov's thing.
Dmitri Nabokov (1934-2012) would let me read excerpts prior to the publication of the book.
He would fax me his manuscripts: La Veneziana.When I lived at the shores of Lake Geneva and attended Art Center (Europe) I was given Nabokov as a subject to read and write about in literature class.
I even ended up befriending his (late) son Dmitri, who lived a few houses up from mine in Montreux and now, after almost two decades living in the USA I am ready to pin down my own memoir, because the encounter with Nabokov made my life immensely beautiful, and lived to the fullest.
Mạnh dạn cho 5 sao, mặc dù có mấy truyện "trẻ con non choẹt" thế nào ý (Ma cây , Lá thư đến từ nước Nga) :))) Cũng có thể đó là những truyện bác ấy viết hồi mới chập chững cầm bút.
Cách miêu tả của Nabokov vừa có được sự mềm mại tự nhiên lại vừa rất chặt chẽ, chi tiết, xoắn xuýt.
Những truyện Dấu hiệu và biểu hiện, Báo tin, Một truyện đồng thoại, Cảnh đời một quái vật kép,...
khiến mình choáng váng sau khi đọc xong, hệt như khi lỡ ngủ trưa quá 30' - sẽ cực kỳ đau đầu và lâng lâng khi bị dựng cổ dậy @@
As I was reading The Stories of Vladimir Nabokov, more than 600 pages of them, I had to set aside what I already knew of his colossal literary achievements to better appreciate how they came to be, how long he spent publishing his work in tiny emigre newspapers, how little he was appreciated before Lolita and Pale Fire were published, two books that made him impossible to ignore. He had many literary friends and admirers throughout his career, of course. Perhaps the most famous, and famously ar
As I was reading The Stories of Vladimir Nabokov, more than 600 pages of them, I had to set aside what I already knew of his colossal literary achievements to better appreciate how they came to be, how long he spent publishing his work in tiny emigre newspapers, how little he was appreciated before Lolita and Pale Fire were published, two books that made him impossible to ignore.
But the fact is that Nabokov’s own stories tell the tale of his melancholy moments in Europe—especially in Berlin—better than a deservedly proud man would like to tell them directly, in his own voice.
I began both reading and listening.
It's not strange, then, that the reading was abandoned in favor of the listening, in my car, over a period of a couple of months.
Nabokov's style is dense, convoluted, and it seemed as I listened-on, almost overly-rich with detail.
For the most part, what these tell are emigre tales of Russians escaping the tyranny of the USSR as it was forming, people living in Germany and France, all with vulnerabilities and desperation and in differing situations.
People are fools.
In living it, meaning is found and it is made, and it fills you to the breaking.
The summer of 2016 was a Nabokov story a day, imbuing each day with his golden mellifluous magic.
It helps when the first 3-4 stories you publish are so superb, containing three of my top five favorite Nabokov's: "The Wood Sprite", "Sounds", "Wingstroke".
I would of thought from reading "The Vane Sisters" in anthologies that Nabokov hit his short story stride in English later in his life, but I found almost the opposite to be true with all the wonderful Russian stories from the twenties.
But - and this for a long time now - I haven't felt like reading any more of it.
It is possible even that I haven't even read any of it at all this year.
I tried to get back into it today and I realised that I have absolutely no interest in this book anymore and that to finish it would be tedious.
I usually 'stick it out' with books and read them through, but with this one, well, I admit myself beaten.
https://www.goodreads.com/videos/4663..., CLICK THE LINK TO MEET NABOKOV  Nabokov writes imaginative sometimes eccentric stories: Russian, Parisian, and in America Boston and NY.
His use of language is brilliant, his alliteration is whimsical.
Prince of Authors, King of Alliteration.
It's a shame that he is primarily known for his one banned book, a little(or more)over the top, but which one do you think sold?
This book of shorts could easily end up on somebody's abandoned or DNF shelf  because it is 65 stories back-to-back.
Watch the author interview, Nabokov admits to a little stammering in discussions and social situations when he feels uncomfortable or misconstrued.
As it often happens with favorite writers of mine (Kafka, Hesse, Murakami, Camus...), I find that their short stories stand out as the best reads (to take nothing away from their novels, natch).
My copy of the Vintage qpb Stories of V.N., the one with the butterfly on the reflective cover, is a well-loved, well-read volume in my personal library.
My own love of words and the craft of writing informs my Nabokov fandom.
There were 67 short stories in total and when reading his "liner notes" at the end, every story stood out poignantly in my memory.
There were love stories, horror stories, mysteries...they ran the whole gamut.
Below are some of my most favorite lines:All silence is the recognition of a mystery -- "Sounds"I want to run all my life, screaming at the top of my lungs.
Let all of life be an unfettered howl.
-- "Gods"I realized that the world does not represent a struggle at all, or a predaceous sequence of chance events, but shimmering bliss, beneficent trepidation, a gift bestowed on us and unappreciated.
-- "Beneficence"
I feel Nabokov is my fictional-father, the inspiring-muse, the genius-in-the-book who always is there behind your back to inspire you to think creatively and to imagine the beauties of the world in more colorful pattern.
I fell in love with Nabokov's nape-tingling prose when I read Lolita; stigma apart, no body can craft lyrical sentences with such effortless legerdemain like Nabokov.
I loved his Pale Fire and then, read this collection.
It is a brilliant book, a collection of some of the most exquisite short stories ever crafted by this master raconteur.
My favorites from the collection are Gods, The Word, Natasha, Christmas, and Easter Rain.
چقدر ميشه نفهميدش...
Well written stories and Nabokov certainly has a gift for language, but some were just very complicated to read, and I am reading for pleasure, not academia...so...
Here's why this story is enchanting: " I could isolate, consciously, little. Everything seemedblurred, yellow-clouded, yielding nothing tangible. Her ineptacrostics, maudlin evasions, theopathies-- every recollectionformed ripples of mysterious meaning. Everything seemedyellowly blurred, illusive, lost. " : Icicles by Cynthia, meter from Sybil https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acrostic
Nabokov writes prose ecstatically--- someone said that, that's on the blurb of this book, and it's true. Equally true is the slightly confusing, stream-of-consciousness poetry that is his writing style. I had to be extremely patient before I got it, it makes you feel a bit stupid in the beginning, but eventually, Nabokov's world will hold you captive and from that, there is no escape.
This was hell of a ride!!
3.5 stars.
Complete RankingsThe Vane Sisters - 5/5The Assistant Producer - 2/5The Wood Sprite - 3/5Signs and Symbols - 5/5Russian Spoken Here - 3/5Sounds - 5/5Wingstroke - 4/5Conversation Piece, 1945 - 1/5Time and Ebb - 3/5The Return of Chorb - 4/5Lance - 4/5The Aurelian - 3/5Terra Incognita - 5/5Cloud, Lake, Castle - 3/5First Love - 4/5Scenes from the Life of a Double Monster - 3/5Mademoiselle O - 5/5Easter Rain - 2/5The Christmas Story - 1/5Razor - 3/5Perfection - 4/5Terror - 3/5Recruiting - 2/5Music - 3/5A Nursery Tale - 4/5Tyrants Destroyed - 3/5Vasiliy Shishkov - 2/5The Admiralty Spire - 3/5In Memory of L.
Now that I've read this collection I know him a lot better, and probably love him a little bit less, though my appreciation of him as an artist remains undiminished.Some of these stories are marvels of auctorial craft and inspiration.
The rest, with a few exceptions, are very, very good.I've never taken so long to read a work of fiction.
The middle third took me still longer because, while the stories were still good, I was beginning to tire of reading about the lives of post-Revolutionary Russian expatriates in Berlin.
This is a story about a young couple that is visiting a cemetery.
Throughout the story, the man is trying to comfort his partner by providing her with details of the beautiful and magnificent things happening around her.
"Listen--I want to run all my life, screaming at the top ofmy lungs.
Let all of life be an unfettered howl.
Don't stop to think, don't interrupt the scream, exhale, release life's rapture.
Running.
Let-down hair.
That is all there is to life."What an intensely heart-rending story.
Vladimir Nabokov is most known for his novel, "Lolita", which is a good thing because it's one of the greatest books ever written but the hurricane of mixed emotions that it stirred up created a cloud of obscurity that kind of blurred anything else he wrote.
The people that are under that impression should read this collection of short stories and then smack themselves for making such assumptions.
I put Nabokov right up there with Hemingway as one of the greatest writers of all time, and this collection of short stories will surely prove to you why.
Nabokov accomplishes in 5 pages what most writers fail to in thousands. The tales you'll find in this collection run the gamut from ecstatic to devastating, whimsical to grave, often evoking all of these in the same story, on the same page, and sometimes inexplicably seem to ignite the entire sprawling spectrum of humanity with a single turn of phrase! I'm gushing, I know, but this book hit me really hard.
Every time I read something of Nabokov's, I'm simultaneously humbled and awed.
I can't even begin to describe how much I love these stories, how much I love Nabokov the writer (although reading Strong Opinions, his collection of essays and interviews, makes me respect him as a person as well), and how much reading his words makes me love language all the more.
My god, the man was a genius.
I will be reading and rereading these stories for a very long time to come.
They are definitely meant to be savored, preferably in front of a roaring fire with a good glass of wine.
Nabokov is amazing. The level of detail, and wit he puts into every single sentence is astounding and even in his shorter works you can find this same level of genuine passion for what he does. Excellent stuff.
Nabokov the alchemist of language. No other writer can call forth sights and sounds to create those indescribable moments and moods like he does. What Longing!Some of these stories almost knocked me out of my chair. Even my landlady choked on her earl gray while sampling a story over her morning egg.What variety of characters! Smelly vengeful angels, immigrant forest spirits, gods and devils, cowards and drunks. Everyone of them alive in my mind.Longing, the one word that comes to mind to sum up the aching dramas and bitter lives... all that longing.
Vladimir Nabokov could speak and read and write in several different languages.
Naturally, this painterly disposition has lent to his work a poetic grandeur that comparatively impoverishes most other short story writers.
I have never read any of his novels, but I cherish my collection of his short stories for their insights into human nature, but also for their insights into being a writer.
Truth be told, all of his short stories have merit, and I have never read one that I didn't like, if only from a technical or poetic appreciation.
That in Aleppo Ounce.......In this story Nabakov brings in beautiful poetic descriptions of people, places, and the emotions surrounding them.
A man is narrating a letter to a friend and describing his journey fleeing France as the Germans are moving in.
One doubts throughout the story if she exists due to the narrators ambiguity.
Traveling through France and parts of Spain they seek to get visas.
The disjointed and obliquely chaotic manner in which Nabakov writes creates the feeling of stress and the unpredictable familiar with being on the run.
The man arrives at his destination but still longs for her.
