https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10073.A_Long_Way_Down
jump already! and take the book with you.
(A-) 80% | Very GoodNotes: Despite its grim premise, it’s frequently laugh-out-loud. Though I’m not a fan of the shifting first-person perspective.
What a ridiculous and somehow totally believable premise!Ok, so it's New Years Eve, and Martin (because he is an alcoholic ex-morning-show-host who has been in all the papers lately for sleeping with a fifteen-year-old who, to his credit, told him she was sixteen, which isn't exactly illegal, but whose wife left him for it anyways, and took their two kids), Maureen (because her son Matty is a vegetable, always has been and always will be, and she hasn't done anything worth mentioning in the last twenty years besides care for him and become socially awkward), JJ (because his band broke up and his girlfriend left him, although the reason he initially gives is that he has CCR, a totally fictional disease and also a wicked 60's rock band) and Jess (because she has family and relationship problems, but mostly just because she is young and nuts and it seemed like a good idea at the time) have all lugged themselves to the top of Toppers' House with the intention of doing themselves in.
And when you feel a bit down in the dumps sometimes you need something relatable and so I gave this a go.Do you know that feeling when you’re stuck in a long bus ride with friends or you stay over at a close friend’s house and you talk about meaningful things all night?
You know that feeling when you’ve been traveling a few hours with your friends and you’ve had too much fun talking about stuff you don’t want the ride to end?
Maybe finding the right people to enjoy the ride with will make you stay.
Running With Scissors was the closest I came, but Augusten Burroughs was such an unrealistic and absurd character, (which is ironic because he was based on a real person), that it seemed too ridiculous to find laugh-out-loud funny.Hornby's characters were genuine and honest.
I received a more realistic depiction of depression from this story than I found in any of my textbooks that entire semester.If you've ever had a bad day, a bad week or even a bad year, you can surely identify with the characters in this book.
Of course this seems to be a silly thing to say considering the topic and all those miserable characters.
Apparently Johnny Depp called the characters some of the most outstanding he's ever had the pleasure of reading.
Sometimes I find myself grabbing the book just to read a page or another to have one of them accompany me.
And I think that the most important thing about this book, apart from the great writing, is that you learn to look at situations with much more humour.
But you look at things in a different way.
Some thought Martin didn't do anything wrong because the girl wanted to have sex and he didn't know her age.
It's about a middle aged man practically raping a fifteen year old!Martin: “one of my daughters (and I’m sorry to say that I don’t know which one)”This guy is talking shit about his ex-wife all the time because she doesn't want him to see their daughters, but seriously, HE DOESN'T DESERVE TO SEE THEM, HE CAN'T EVEN TELL THEM APART!!!!!Okay, I know, this review is very ranty, BUT I HAVE SO MUCH ISSUES WITH IT!
Which is kinda the point of why he's so awful: he is intentionally trying to be life changing in every book, essay, magazine column or whatever.
much like these things do to characters in his books.
My first impressions of the book, before actually reading it, I thought it took place entirely on the roof of the building.
This isn't the first time he's taken on suicide, but to build a whole book around it and never really answer any questions, come to any conclusions.
One character feigns a deadly disease.
It was pretty clear that none of the characters were never actually going to kill themselves.
The only thing that saved it from being a complete and utter waste of my time was that Nick Horny writes the occasional very witty passage, and there were two (count them, two) observations that I found actually interesting.
Who wants to bet the improbably become entangled in each other's lives?
Who wants to bet they end up improbably helping one another learn Important Truths about Themselves and Life?
Who wants to bet that, when they meet up in 90 days on the roof to jump, none of them kill themselves, because they now all want to live?
I remember writing some philosophical line, in some random musing that may or may not have been intended as a beginning to a novel, which said: When we say it is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all, we forget that this is only true in hindsight when the distance of time has dulled the edges of that pain.
“ If you're old and happy, I can imagine that you'll smile to yourself when you hear me going, he broke my heart.
Which is odd, because I think the book admirably avoids easy answers or cloying sentimentality.
Of course, once Maureen taps Martin on the shoulder, and once they see teen-age Jess taking a run for the parapet, and once JJ arrives with pizza, they can't really jump to their deaths, can they?
I didn't find it difficult to roll with the premise, in part because the novel is told in rotating first person, first Martin, then Maureen, then Jess, then JJ.
And JJ isn't about to discover a new purpose in life, like caring for Maureen's vegetable son or teaching underprivileged kids to play the guitar.
The story is told from four perspectives, and because of the great writing by Hornby you can't set it down mid chapter.
I like that Hornby was willing to risk making light of death and people's depression.It made me laugh out loud, and then suck in a breath or two when a point was made that struck a chord of sobering truth with me.
Life is so hilarious that I made an ass out of myself in public while reading this book (because I was laughing so loud and embarrassingly).
I hope I'm not the only one who feels this way about reviewing books...
That can't be a good thing in a character driven book.
but if I only had this..." Not that those desires are enough to make us suicidal, besides everybody has had crappy moments in life, otherwise what allows us to appreciate the good?I wanted to like this book more.
I want to give it a five star review, but the more I think about it, (and I've sat here...
Maybe he could blame my not giving his book 5 stars on his kids.
Who would think a book about four people who contemplate suicide on New Year's Eve would be funny? It is. They all show up on the same rooftop and decide not to jump, although they're not quite sure what to do once they've made that decision. Hornby gives us four wildly different first person narratives and we go on their journey of discovery together. Especially hilarious is the character Jess, a foul-mouthed, maddening, infuriating and ultimately lovable teenager. This is a delightful and quirky book and I loved it.
And now comes along Nick Hornby's only high-concept novel till date - 'A Long Way Down'.'A Long Way Down' is about four people who meet on New Year's Eve on top of a London building, each planning to jump off & putting an end to their seemingly miserable lives.
Given the fact that this book falls under popular fiction, the style of narration is one I've hardly come across before in the genre.
Nevertheless, it left me smiling as most of Nick Hornby's books do.4 stars to this dark, funny novel.
as messed up as it may sound, the best part is when they are on the roof again for a reunion and someone un-related actually does take the plunge (i'm not even worried about giving this away, because the book is so bad).
they all realize how they never could have actually jumped, and things really aren't so bad.
even when i got to the end i checked the last few blank pages to make sure i wasn't missing anything.
turns out i wasn't missing anything, but the book certainly was.i wonder if its too late to return it and get my 3 bucks back?
So, I squeezed this in while trying to finish Stephen King's The Shining which is taking me forever to read.Four people meet each other for the first time on top of The Topper's House, a 49-storey building in London, where most people go to commit suicide by jumping down to their death.
Upon knowing that Cas was not there, she went up to the rooftop and found Martin and Maureen thinking of jumping down.
Or course, I am not telling you whether they jumped on March 31 or 3 months after New Year's Eve. That would be too much of a spoiler.Saving now.
I came to this book not knowing what to expect; I knew that people spoke highly of Nick Hornby, and that his books elicit thought and introspection, and I was coming from a background of mostly fantasy and sci-fi readings, so I was a bit cautious about approaching the book.Having said that, I am glad to have taken the plunge, because this is quite honestly one of the most amazing books I've had the pleasure to read.
I feared Hornby would screw it up, or make it unnecessarily depressing or unbelievably happy, but then as I read the ending, I found myself feeling satisfied by the conclusion.
Ho iniziato convinta di leggere un libro sul suicidio.
Un suicidio di gruppo, ma pur sempre un suicidio.
Sfogliando le pagine ho conosciuto quattro volti e quattro vite.
Continuando a leggere ho scoperto che in realtà stavo ascoltando una storia sola e non quattro, ma osservata da quattro punti di vista diversi.
Ho scoperto che alla fine non era una storia sul suicidio o su come lasciarsi andare, ma piuttosto su come "tirare avanti", trovare dentro di sé la forza per continuare a vivere senza lasciarsi andare troppo alla tentazione di fuggire da se stessi.Un bel libro, che si fa leggere tutto d'un fiato.
One wouldn't think that a book that begins when the four main characters meet on a roof, each contemplating suicide, could be touching AND funny, but this was. The relationships these characters develop with one another reveal the way that external situations can create unlikely friendships, and how difficult a word like "friend" can be to use or comprehend. To quote the Publishers Weekly review, "If Camus had written a grown-up version of The Breakfast Club, the result might have had more than a little in common with Hornby's grimly comic, oddly moving fourth novel."
http://www.iubesti.ro/turnul-sinuciga...
Interesting read and funny at times, just not a favourite!
Sono metaforicamente e concretamente la stessa persona/lettrice che ero prima di cominciarne la lettura (bè, ok, lo ammetto, mi è spuntato un brufolo - forse due - nel frattempo, ma non credo di avere il diritto di accusare Nick Hornby di tale misfatto).
Esperienza che non ha avuto alcun effetto sulla mia personcina.Due stellette, invece di una, poichè:1- mi ha consentito, comunque, di portare a termine la lettura in un periodo di scombussolamenti vari, blocchi da lettore, incombenza esami universitari.2- il buon vecchio Hornby "mi" nomina Nick Drake.
A couple of laughes does not save this book. This is my only book by Hornby so I cannot compare it to his other work, but I wish I had not stepped off the ledge and bought the damn thing! I honestly didn't realize I could care less about 4 people contemplating suicide, but the fact is I just didn't care, and the reason is Hornby did not give me a reason to care. These four characters have very little to redeem them.
Non mi è chiaro se c’è un problema di traduzione o se si è cercato di riprodurre il particolare stile dell’autore, o non so che altro: Comunque sia, a volte non riuscivo davvero a capire il significato delle frasi. Peccato, perché nel complesso l’ho trovata una lettura piacevole e simpatica. Senza troppe pretese!
Τα βιβλία του Νικ Χόρνμπυ βρίσκονται σίγουρα κάπου μέσα στη λίστα με τους χιλιάδες λόγους που αξίζει να ζεις
So I have been listening to the new CD by hornby and folds pretty straight for the last day short of the time I have been working or sleeping (I'll get to this specific book be patient).
The best the book does is offer a weird fact that if suicidal people wait 90 days then the feeling passes and they don't kill themselves.
Then, mission accomplished, they find they can neither break their connection nor complete their original mission.The book is told in all four voices, so we get inside each of their heads–miserable screw-up Martin, who had it all and lost it via his own stupidity; self-effacing Maureen, whose life has been spent caring for a son so disabled he has no awareness; the jilted Jess, whose sister is missing–a probable suicide; and musician JJ, who lost his band, his love, and his will to live.This band of misfits screws up regularly and sometimes spectacularly.
They’re drifty and lunatic, self-centered and clueless, and yet–I care about each one.Would I recommend it: I recommend A Long Way Down if you want a funny book with likable characters that admits to hope.
As the book progressed it was like peeling the layers of an onion, the reader gains deeper and deeper insight into each character as we go along.Each character has both a distinct voice and personality as well, and it was written in such a way that they were actually speaking to the reader - loved that.Jesse to the reader after explaining why she was on the roof - if you're old and happy, I can imagine that you'll maybe smile to yourself when you here me going, He broke my heart.
There's a terrifying passage in David Foster Wallace's Infinite Jest that has stuck with me, about suicidal depression and the importance of someone staying up with you and being there through the long night until the dawn.
In general, Hornby doesn't really attempt to capture the internal feeling of severe depression, focusing more on the interactions between the four.
It ends up playing quite a bit like a deliberately quirky set-up for an indie film (which...
The character dynamics and dialogue are mostly well done, but it's hard not to feel like something important is missing here.
