https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92769.Heir_of_Sea_and_Fire
I ovde imamo retko lirske momente, ali je radnja prilično zgusnutija (i dalje postoje neverovatni propusti u zapletu jer eto, bilo je neophodno da se neko prošvercuje s jednog broda na drugi, ko sada da sedi i smišlja kako).
Najdivnije (spojler sledi) jeste što je otprilike poslednja trećina knjige doslovno kao da je Patriša pročitala deo iz Gospodara prstenova o Stazama mrtvih i rekla sebi "Ovo bi bilo mnogo više kul da ti mrtvi pričaju i imaju neki svoj plan i stalno se nešto bune.
I da je umesto Aragorna žensko.
I da ona umesto nekog tamo barjaka nosi lobanju glavnog mrtvaca sa natakarenom krunom i ucenjuje ga njom.
McKillip pulled off a real coup with this book.
Instead of keeping that same POV, she switches to another character, a strong woman at that.
It also puts a real point on the love interest & drives it in deep.I'd rate this book higher than the first in some ways, but can't give it 5 stars because it is too dependent on the first & third.
So again, if you find one of these books, don't read it until you have all three.
There is the Riddle-Master: The Complete Trilogy which is possibly the way to go.
She is the second-most-beautiful lady in the world and she's also a fairly intelligent and progressive young lady who's not just going to sit and wait for Morgon to come back for her...she's going to find him!What I liked about this one over the first book was that the characters (maybe becuase they were female) I was reading about felt a lot more real and exciting to me.
In this second book of the trilogy, Raederle, Morgon's "betrothed," learns that the past she knew of that haunts the earth of An is ready to burst into the present and not just to a rare, "gifted" few who understand the dead and their ancient and tormented magic but to all who involve themselves in the discovering of answers.
The second quote is from Morgon, the Star-Bearer himself: "The first stricture of the Founder of Lungold: the language of truth is the language of power--truth of name, truth of essence." Everyone wants a name.
DO NOT READ THE BLURB.
This is my main complaint about this book.
The book is 207 pages, and the blurb talks about a plot point that doesn't emerge until p 170.
The blurb is literally a spoiler-filled synopsis of the book.
Yet ironically, it was this book's blurb that made me interested in the series to begin with, so maybe I shouldn't be caps-yelling at people not to read the blurb.
That aside, I enjoyed this book.
Please see my review of book 3 (Harpist in the Wind) for an emotionally charged review of the whole series.
These books have such ridiculously cheesy covers.
Also, had the person who wrote the back cover copy even read the book?
I hope to see more of him in Harpist in the Wind.I can't say I'm entirely clear on everything that is going on at the moment; most of the time I feel like Duac (you can't leave me!
McKillip's writing, I believe, improved since "The Riddlemaster of Hed," though also did some small part of the mysteriousness.
One of the brilliant aspects of the first part of the trilogy, for me, was the acuteness that McKillip's writing found in the abstract and the wordless and although this novel got at some very interesting aspects of the world, I don't think it was as effective as the original.
Still, Raederle came out to be a very interesting character, one that I did not think I would like as much as I did (or do), and the story is continued in very interesting and inventive ways.
As a bridge novel, fantastic.
I think I liked this more than the first, but ohhh, I did think I'd like this trilogy more and I'm sad I don't. The writing isn't quite clicking and I feel like some of the story telling is too subtle for me, like I'm missing stuff. (view spoiler)[Like why Raederle was so horrified by the origin of her powers. I get it, but I don't quite UNDERSTAND it, you know? (hide spoiler)]
When I started reading the Riddle-Master trilogy, it seemed to me like a very straightforward fantasy novel: a Special, Chosen man must go on a Dangerous Quest to save his kingdom and marry and/or rescue the woman he loves. Book two in the series turned all that on its head. It became this story of very compelling, complicated women. I liked it.
Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #369.
It was better than the first book. I liked the second half of it more than the first half. There were some good quotes toward the end.
Just as the first book is the story of Morgon and his path to self-discovery, this book is the story of Raederle of An, the second most beautiful woman of the Three Portions of An. A year has elapsed from the events of The Riddle-Master of Hed. Morgon, along with the High One’s harpist, has disappeared after leaving Danan Isig’s house.
As Morgon must discover the truth of his identity and name himself, Raederle has to come to terms with her shape-changer heritage and the wild power she knows she possesses but is too afraid to use.
Patricia A.
Many of the shortcomings of that first novel are still present (after all, one can't change the names one has built one's world on in the middle of the story), but that book's strengths are here as well despite the story's sudden change in focus; if you liked the first one, this one will keep you just as interested.
This world is so beautiful and complex and rich that I could not stop turning the pages, even though I never wanted the books to end.
Basically, to make me dissatisfied with the time I've spent loving the main character and everyone he came into contact with and the strange and wonderful magic in these books, it would have to end in a picture of a penguin in a top hat doing the Macarena and no further explanation.
And even then, I might forgive McKillip, given how amazing these books have been so far.
With the Riddle-master trilogy just become available on kindle I re-read all three (The Riddle Master of Hed, Heir of Sea and Fire and Harpist in the Wind.
It is now many years since I read these books as they are in storage in NZ while I work in Africa, so I was delighted to find them available as e-books and then even more delighted to find that they still hold the same magic as they did all those years ago (which is not always true of all books that you enjoy as a teenager and then re-read.
A friend of mine in high school loaned me The Riddle Master of Hed, which I devoured rapidly and then demanded he loan me the next one.
Heir of Sea and Fire also ended on a cliff hanger, and when I demanded the third, my friend blithely replied, "It isn't out yet.
I needed someone else to suffer with me." I Was Enraged.
Then I pulled the same stunt on my sister, because I am evil.Finishing it this time, my response was more a puzzled, "Huh. That isn't much of a cliffhanger." Different ages, different hormones?
Not the page-turner that the previous one (The Riddle-Master of Hed) has been, but still full of poetry and charm, interesting characters (if slightly annoying), twists, mystery. As usual, the middle book in a trilogy cannot hold as much mystery and excitement as the first, and neither can it offer resolution to any existent situation - it is like a link between the first and the third. This one is no exception, but for the many extra elements added to the story. All the same, it's very good fantasy, and very different.
I enjoyed this second book in the trilogy much less than the first. The pacing and plotting seemed slack with a lot of dithering by the main characters, three women connected to the central figure in the series, Morgon. However, my reaction also reflects my disappointment with the narrator of the audiobook. I guess because the protagonists are women, the decision was made to switch to a female reader. She mispronounced names and was also inconsistent in how she said them. Her efforts to distinguish characters by accent and voice were inadequate to say the least.
Umbes sama köitev kui esimene, ehkki tore oli see, et esimese raamatu kangelane jäetakse suuremalt jaolt kõrvale ja tema õde, võimalik mõrsja ja wannabe-ihukaitsja lähevad ise teda taga otsima, kõik teismelised plikad ja väga hakkajad - esimeses raamatus punnis kangelane seiklustele väga vastu ja ähvardas vähemalt kord peatykis kõik sinnapaika jätta ja minna koju kartuleid kasvatama.
It should have been one I'd like, but I found the characters confusing, and was never entirely clear what had happened in the book. Maybe too fantastical for me?
This book accomplishes a really fun switcheroo in changing the POV from the hero-in-training from the first book, Morgon, to the damsel-in-wait, Raederle.
These books are quite short and yet still find time to waste pages and pages with pointless deliberation about changing course, turning back or even getting started in the first place.
I wrote this in my review for the first book that McKillip has a tendency to bury scene changes which drives me nuts.
As someone with ADHD who has a hard time quieting my mind, I'll often find myself down an entire page while I've been thinking of something completely different.
Morgon appears in this book and a stiff odor of dull implausibility swirls around him whenever he appears.) The adventures are also most exciting and less repetitive than the previous book.
Part of me wants to finish, but another part of me knows there are other books I would enjoy reading more right now.I suppose the fact that this novel has an empowered, badass female protagonist was a big deal when it was published in the 70s, and frankly that is still a big deal.
The book's consciousness of the women's experiences and the way men's judgements so often try to restrict them was probably my favorite part of this book.
Accents also pulled me out of the story with characters like the pig-woman who was described as having a rough, plain voice and read like a quavery-voiced nonagenarian on their deathbed (even though the character is shown in the same scene to be a person of great power), and a ghost king with a raspy voice from a wound read in the same elderly voice.
It's also a very interesting plot twist, to move away from the point-of-view of the first book's hero, while still continuing his story.The problem is that not a lot comes out of it.A full 80% of the book is spent aimlessly wandering, with Raederle pointlessly coming together with her companions, heading northward, and then turning around and splitting up.
But it turns out to be Morgon's story and Morgon's monumental decision, not Raederle's.
I have hope for the next book, but this one ultimately felt like an unimportant, wandering tangent.

I enjoyed this second book in the series even more than the first.
Again with this book as with the first in the series, The Riddlemaster of Hed, I had to slow down reading in order to really follow and enjoy the story.
Put another way, the narrative style is much different from many popular books I have read and requires more attention from the reader to follow.The first book ends on a total cliffhanger, and this book completely shifts points of view from the Morgon in the first book, to Raederle in the second, so there was some transition time necessary when just starting the book, but everything is explained and the story moves ahead.I already have the third book and will start on it this week.
At times, maybe a little overwritten but I think it's done very intentionally to create a dream-like experience that leaves you unsure of how one scene merges into another.
I love the mystery that was brought in with Raederle's ancestry, and I'm looking forward to getting the answers to all these riddles!I must say, McKillip has created some of the creepiest villains in her Riddle-Master trilogy – so different from anything I've ever read before.
While her writing style is a little more esoteric, I think they're worthy of as much praise.
I've never read anything remotely similar to McKillip's books.
Well it surprised me, I wondered at one point if I'd missed out a book.
Beginning with the point of view of the women who love Morgon, it seems like an interesting new direction is developing, but the story zigzags around and the strong women kind of fade out.
I wasn't as keen on this as the first book, but middle ones are often difficult.
I think not though, a bit all over the place at times,but I am looking forward to some kind of conclusion in book 3.
Book two in the Riddle-Master trilogy.
Strong, as the first, starting one year after we left Morgan at the end of the first book.
Interesting in that we get to follow what is going on in the land and with its people while Morgan's away; specifically we follow Raederle, the woman Morgan is to marry.
As others, she sets off to search for Morgan, discovering her own powers and some surprising information about her ancestors along her journey.Good story that ends strong, with good excitement, more questions (as befitting a Riddle-Master), and a strong set up for book three.
I read this book for the first time when I was too young to understand it.
I had trouble keeping track of who was where, in what shape, and when.
But I enjoyed it nonetheless- there was something in it that spoke to me.
Now I'm older and I understand what that 'something' was, and why almost as soon as I read this, I started writing my own silly little story about shapeshifters and being hated for what you were.
...I'm not going to call this disability lit, exactly, because it isn't.
But this book is...
very, very relatable for that reason.
