https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/752310.Death_in_Rome
In the streets, in the Church, and in music.The centre stage is a post-war Rome, for Wolfgang Koeppen's devastating novel on German resilience, it takes a prototypical German family and dumps them in Italy's capital to play out a reunion that none of them wants.
A stark contrast between German greed and Italian ambience.It is a story of fathers and sons, saints and sinners, but Koeppen never allows his characters to be more than archetypal figures in a plot interspliced with a sensual rendition and perceptive vignettes of Roman life.
Lemmethinklemmethinklemmethink.......Yes, 42 years and two world wars after Thomas Mann sent Gustav von Aschenbach to Venice in search of beauty in the form of a young Polish boy, Wolgang Koeppen sends a whole German family to Rome.
Yet it is his wife, Eva, who serves as the blackest thought of the German soul.The number of characters and their fractured nature made this a much more complex and appealing read to me than  Death in Venice.
In Venice, a shocked and respectful world received the news of his decease.
In Rome, when Death came, the fact of it can have shocked no one.
And then I thought: If Adolf and I can't cope with life, then we should at least unite against those unscrupulous people who want to rule because they are unimaginative, against the real Pfaffraths, the real Judejahns, the real Klingspors, and perhaps we could change Germany.
If a person can be a prize for someone else I felt why even bother.What would the nephew Siegfried, a musician, look like if he was not measured with a distance from a monster's face.
This face will show what everyone else looks like.
My friend J who I have worked with for 20 years died this past week.
This has been one of the worst times of my adult life.
I once went on a trip with J to Rome.
It was around this time that I acquired this novel.
My friend battled cancer twice in the last 20 years, this second time it was for keeps.
My wife has been wonderful throughout.Death in Rome is exactly that.
Koeppen penned a vast German family postwar dynamic and then enkindled such in 200 dense pages of shifting points of view and acerbic images.
That's something that Siegfried Pfaffrath is unable to forget even for a minute, in this story about a "family reunion" of two pairs of German fathers and sons, in post-WWII Rome.I'm not sure what I expected from this book, but it surprised me in many ways: the prose is evocative and beautiful, but occasionally very convoluted, as most of the story is told as the inner monologue of Siegfried, his father Friedrich, his cousin Adolf, and Adolf's father - Gottlieb Judejahn.During the war, Judejahn was an SS officer, and the Reich's defeat is a bitter pill he still hasn't swallowed.
Not only is Death in Rome a luscious and wonderful conjuring up of that Dolce Vita Rome of the post-war and pre-Beatles era, but it’s also a fabulous flowering of Modernist prose techniques, hypnotizing in its streams of interior monologues, thought-based rhythmic repetitions, and musically minded meanderings.
It’s rare that a novel impresses so convincingly in both form and content.Death in Rome’s imaginative and organic style, its rhythms drawn from that inner monologue that we all carry around in our heads, takes us inside the thoughts, experiences, and desires of three protagonists whose particulars build them into representatives of their split, post-war German culture and, by extension, all modern nation states.
Much of the novel is devoted to internal monologues, and even before he comes to understand that prominent members of his family are also in Rome Seigfried can think of little outside of his childhood, his hated Uncle Judejahn, his father, and the recently ended war.

Death in Rome was the third book of a trilogy, written by Koeppen in quick succession at the time - all addressing aspects of the "new" Germany.
Nevertheless, he is now regarded as one of the best German literary authors and his work has experienced a revival since his death in 1996.The members of one family meet, more or less by chance, in Rome.
Still, Death in Rome is as powerful a book now as it was when it was first published and should be recommended to readers of all ages interested in recent European history.
But it seems to me, from the little I know, that Boll is far more subtle than Koeppen.
Billiards at half past nine, the sole book by Boll I've read, is about the unsaid, what cannot be mentioned.
Koeppen mentions everything.
He wants you to know exactly what he thinks of modern Germany.
Of cowardice, of cruelty, of Death, of Justice, of the bareness of life after the Holocaust.
There's no point to life, no point to music, art, religion, the State.
But then, what do I know of this kind of pain, of the enormity of the events Koeppen is talking about?
Totentanz Why is this author almost unknown in this country? This novel from 1954 is a compact masterpiece, a lurid but fascinating dance of death that anatomizes the German psyche in the decade following the Second World War. Its setting is Rome in the early 1950s, evoked in a brilliant collage of sights, sounds, tastes and smells. Into this, with the choreographed contrivance of artistic licence, Koeppen brings together several members of a German family, scattered by hatred or exile since 19
Pfaffrath believes that the conscience-laundering process can be applied to Judejahn also, not realizing the intensity of the other's continued devotion to the ideals of the old Third Reich.Set against these as representatives of the younger generation are their respective sons, who also happen to be in Rome at the same time.
Judejahn's son Adolf, coming upon a stalled train of concentration camp inmates in the last days of the war, has suffered a crisis of conscience and is now in process of becoming a priest.
The four principals are foremost German "types": the unrepentant Nazi, Gottlieb Judejahn; his brother-in-law Friedrich Wilhelm Pfaffrath, the careerist who maneuvers to stay on the side that is winning; their respective sons Adolf Judejahn, on the verge of becoming a priest; and Siegfried Pfaffrath, a composer of what his uncle considers "degenerate" music.
His son Adolf, who spent his childhood in a Nazi academy, has turned to religion after sharing a human moment with a Jewish boy, a concentration camp survivor, when the two encounter one another during a train wreck shortly before liberation.
Michael Hoffman, translator, says in his introduction: Death in Rome is the most devastating novel about the Germans that I have ever read, and one of the most arresting on any subject.
It most certainly is a compelling read, both for content and for style.
A word to the sensitive: one of the characters is a former SS general, very racist, and Koeppen depicts him as the brutal thug you can expect.As to style, I selected this read just now because Koeppen is one of those authors influenced by Marcel Proust, which was one of the tasks for the Fall Challenge.
Een kleine roman is het, althans in omvang (niet meer dan 194 pagina’s lang), maar wie denkt dat je die op een paar dagen uit hebt vergist zich: als niet-Duitsers zijn we niet vertrouwd met het thema (Duitsers in het post-nazitijdperk), en er wordt een stoet aan personages opgevoerd (tien om precies te zijn, de meeste met familiale banden – het is sinds het lezen van Dostojewski geleden dat ik nog eens een namenlijstje heb aangelegd).
Hij mag dan intussen gerehabiliteerd zijn en door de literaire kritiek tot de grootste schrijvers van de Duitse naoorlogse generatie gerekend worden, een echt ruim lezerspubliek zoals Günter Grass, Heinrich Böll, etc.
The death motif is perhaps the strongest from title through to the end of the book, but Koeppen also uses symbolism and unique metaphors, particularly animals and insects, to heighten the impact of his story.
Of particular interest to me was the use of music and the representation of the composer, Siegfried Pfaffrath, as a modern serial composer in the mold of Schoenberg.
Perhaps the only answer is to act out your lack of understanding--to end the dark, unbearable world with death.Overall the effect is impressive with the result being a novel that challenges the reader with its taut presence.
A beautifully written 1954 novel whose characters, members of an extended German family, gather in Rome after the end of World War II.
They are archetypes of German society and the German "soul;" the most repugnant, Gottlieb Judejahn, is a former SS general traveling under an assumed name, arranging arms deals for an army he is assembling in the desert.
His brother Friedrich is a small-time town official, not as grotesque as Judejahn but still responsible for easing the way for Jews to die.
Friedrich's son Siegfried is repulsed by the family patriarchs and has gone in the opposite direction, becoming a composer of vaguely discordant orchestral music.
Death in Rome by Wolfgang Koeppen The Brilliant and Powerful Novel You’ve Probably Never Heard Of.
The four primary characters are Siegfried Pfaffrath, his father Friederich, his uncle Gottlieb Judejahn and Judejahn’s son Adolf.
In this novel, music, bureaucracy, arms and religion depict elements of the German soul.
And not only their own individual pasts: each of the four elements (music, bureaucracy, arms and religion) has a past, as does Germany and Rome.
Death in Rome is the third of those novels, but the first that I have read.
Perhaps the younger generation (represented by Siegfried and Adolf) have exceeded expectations.
Cousins whom their Nazi fathers have named Adolf and Siegfried, who spent childhood in Nazi facilities for the young, we meet now as an unconvinced Roman Catholic priest and an irresolute composer of modernist music, in rejection of their fathers and mothers (the introduction, by the translator, says women are scarcely present, that this Nazi clan is a male thing.
Adolf's father was a murderer by trade and temperament, portrait of a Nazi driver, behind everything (as the introduction notes, he can't have been involved in every famous crime: it works as myth).
Since I am studying German literature I had to read this for a project. This book is pretty good for a classic. Interesting and not too dense. I have to be honest though, I didn't read the last twenty pages because I know what happens in the end and because I had a deadline.
But ultimately I found this book to be neither slow nor difficult, and I read through it in 2 or 3 long sittings because I couldn't put it down.Wolfgang Koeppen pays homage to Thomas Mann in this novel's title, epigraph, and final lines, and perhaps the similarities don't end there.
Death in Rome is an odd, intertwining novel about two generations of a (very) dysfunctional German family.
Apparently this novel was not very popular when it was published to German audiences, who must have found it far too uncomfortable back in the day, and Koeppen's work has only recently started finding a new audience since his death in 1996.
Death is Rome is a little known, powerful masterpiece that evokes the ethos and pathos of post-WWII Germany in a brilliant and poignant piece of literature.On the surface we see a family reunion of sorts in post-war Rome.
These characters are rich, complex and deep, especially Judejahn, who, at least for me, will remain one of the more evocative and memorable literary characters I have come across.In this dance, the pride, the collective guilt and the held-onto prejudices of post-war Germany are splashed against the back drop of the heady dolce vitae atmosphere of Rome at the time.
Koeppen and I go way back. I tried several time to read his master piece Tauben im Gras but never made it through but after this book I am keen to finally finish it. There are not many people who can quote thomas mann in their book. he can. a must read book in my opnion.
Tries too hard, and fails. It doesn't feel like Rome because everyone that is anyone is German in this version of the eternal city. And it didn't matter that it was Rome, apart from the need to reference Thomas Mann.
Again masterful. If slightly less impressive, that may be simply because I have already read the first two and am less likely to be surprised or impressed by Koeppen's power.
28 FEB 2016 - recommended by GRAmazon because I am reading Michael Kohlhaas. Also spied on Bettie's TBR.
"...fabulous flowering of Modernist prose techniques, hypnotizing in its streams of interior monologues, thought-based rhythmic repetitions, and musically minded meanderings..."Τι καλύτερο !
Просто фантасмагоричное произведение опять об осмыслении фашизма, но как бы разворачивающегося на сцене античного театра.
Очевидно, множество отсылок к "Смерти в Венеции" Манна, но, по-моему, Кёппен просто отдаёт дань уважения, но говорит о своём.
Короче, Кёппер рассматривает всё со всех точек зрения, которые может себе представить.В отличие от двух других романов, этот сложно назвать потоком сознания, он всё же как-то более структурирован, чуть более "нормален", что вполне компенсируется странностью происходящих событий.
Some nice long commaed sentences and who doesn't like brutal examinations of the legacy of ww2 and the holocaust in west germany
Published just nine years after the fall of the third Reich, it is a carefully considered examination of the “collective amnesia” which enveloped the German people following the war and allowed them to forget their past, absolve their guilt, and move on with their lives.
The book captures the generational differences as we see the older members of the families living in the aftermath of the war: some in anger and bitterness hoping for a Nazi resurgence; others in denial and forgetfulness.
In contrast, the younger generation lives in total rejection of the past separating themselves as far as possible from their parents whom they hold responsible.
