https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74777.The_Burning_Shore
Centaine is eventually tracked down by German South African Lothar De La Rey, who agrees to return her to Garrick Courtney for a pardon.
Smith lays out the foundation for a wonderfully complex second series in the Courtney collection with this interesting opening novel, forcing the reader to recall all the characters who have played a role up to this point.As I shift gears and return to the Courtney mindset, I am happy to see that Smith has not spared the reader any of the action or intrigue.
This is a marvelous series and just keeps getting better.
I found THE BURNING SHORE a bit of a slog to read, perhaps because Smith's previous novel, THE LEOPARD HUNTS IN DARKNESS, was an absolutely triumphant book and one of my favourite reads of all time; this one can't help but pale in comparison.There's much to love here, but somehow the book lacks the spark of life present in earlier works, and there's a slight sense of Smith going through the motions.
The lengthy midsection of the novel is a story of desert survival and I found it repetitive and a little dull.Things do pick up for the last part, featuring a love-him-or-hate-him character with the kind of moral complexity that I love reading about (Lothar) and the return of some old favourites from the first Courtney trilogy.
Michael fa nascere in lei, raccontandole della propria terra, un amore per l'Africa che è superato soltanto da quello che la ragazza nutre per il bel pilota.
Sarà questo duplice amore a indurre l'aristocratica e spregiudicata francesina a partire verso una fortunosa ma splendida avventura.
Portando in grembo il frutto della sua relazione con Michael, Centaine s'imbarca per l'Africa e affronta i mille pericoli che l'attendono...Come sempre, Smith ci regala un meraviglioso libro di avventura e di amore, che non potete lasciarvi sfuggire.
Also I am not in the regretful phase of finishing up this novel at a great pace because there are three more novels to be read on Courtney series pertaining to this.
In this awesome description of war, I learnt to fly plane - diving, rolling and firing.
True adventurous experience of hardships faced boldly by Centaine starting from the incredulous escape ashore through the Atlantic to the misery of the deserts of Africa and finally reaching human habitats.
And well, crux of this novel are Bushman and their support to Centaine.
That's enough, give it a read!!
Read it twenty-six years ago. The tv series was pretty nice.
This one does jump backwards a bit from where we left off at the end of A Sparrow Falls, heading back into the First World War as we are introduced to Centaine de Thiry as she finds herself in the middle of the war and a love affair with a certain Michael Courtney.
The rest of the story follows her journey from the desctruction of war and the loss of her beloved, through the desert and out the other side as she embraces the power and money that comes with the Courtney name, not to mention the power and money her own family wields.
An excellent introduction to another side of the next generation of Courtneys.
This was my first book from the Courtney series. Wilbur Smith has made me fall in love with the African deserts. I have come to believe that he has described the African continent in a much better manner than the geography textbooks prescribed at school. The amount of research that has gone into this book regarding the lives of the bushmen has been outstanding. I simply could not put the book down after crossing the 200 page mark.
Gone With the Wind comes to mind, as Scarlett is crying for Rhett’s departure and the reader is gnashing her teeth wondering what will happen when Scarlett “thinks about it tomorrow.” Though The Burning Shores, by Wilbur Smith, isn’t in the same category as Margaret Mitchell’s classic, the book ends abruptly, leaving enchanted readers eager for a sequel.
At the end of these pages the reader is left wondering what will happen next in the grand drama of Centaine’s life.
And while there are no pretensions of The Burning Shore and subsequent novels being scholarly works, one might also learn a thing or two about African life and history.
I'm finding that I like them just as much as previously, but in a different way.This particular book was well-researched and very interesting to me.
I did love reading about her adventures though and I loved that this was a parallel story to the previous book in the series.
Like I previously stated - the research he did for the book is amazing.I think Wilbur Smith is just a great storyteller, and even though I cringe at some of the things his characters say and do, his books suck me in and I will keep reading them.
There are three phases to the series, the first three books are phase one and tell the story of Sean Courtney from 1860 to 1925.
Wilbur Smith then wrote a third phase which is a prequel and is set between 1660 and 1918.The Burning Shore is an exhilarating story of a woman’s determination and strength in the face of adversityIt starts on the battlefields of France and is set at the same time as A Sparrow Falls.
It tells the story of Michael Courtney and Centaine de Thiry, a young woman he meets while he is in France.This book like its three predecessors is a colourful, melodramatic, epic adventure story.
This book was a bit tedious; one huge disaster after another for the young heroine (I forget her name).
Within the span of 25 pages she loses her fiance, father, horse, estate/home and forced to endure hardship after hardship (while pregnant).
She is attacked by a huge great white and gets away by feeding it her life raft mate (all for the sake of her unborn child); it was a pretty brutal telling.
If you enjoy reading about one calamaty after another for 500 pages or so this is the book for you.
Mentre il personaggio di Centaine iniziò come una stella gigantesca, luminosa e splendida, finì piccola piccola, mediocre, miserabile a tratti; quello di Lothar che peggio non poteva sembrare, quando era più piccolo, come il punto quasi invisibile e immobile che vide Centaine quando si allontanò con Garrick ed Anna, invece era più grande, più umano nonostante la crudeltà inutile di certe sue azioni. Alla fine risultò il più vero, il più coerente.
I hated this book, so much so that I can't even rate it. On my quest to read all the Courtney books this was by far the most disappointing. It was a long time ago, but I'm pretty sure it had something to do with the women characters being idiots. I also think that I had already put it down once before, picking it up again only because I needed to read it to get to the next book in the series. Worst novel by a favourite author.
I read this book over 20 years ago, way before Goodreads. So I can't really review it, but I've recommended it to people often enough that I have to give it 5 stars, retroactively. It's the rare Wilbur Smith novel that features a smart, strong, proud, inspiring woman as a main character, and in his earlier years, he was a master of character development and setting. Highly recommend this.
This was the first Wilbur Smith book I ever read and I completely fell in love with the Courtney family. I have since read every Wilbur Smith novel and enjoy each one. They are fast reads so if you are going on vacation take a few.
I loved the book, but I didn't like on big part of the story, I mean I wanted it to go in the opposite way. Is that even possible?(view spoiler)[ in case you where wondering I'm talking about the whole Lothar, Mafred deal. You don't abandon your child! And she should have forgiven Lothar! (hide spoiler)]
Smith è un maestro nel descrivere l'Africa.
Best Wilbur Smith book. Hidden behind a title that screams "Trash!"
Loved it! An amazing adventure and such a great story. Looking forward to the rest of the books about the Courtneys'
Great book. Full of interesting twists.Middle part almost became boring, but great book in general.
Dit geldt dus ook voor De wet van de jungle, het eerste deel van de tweede Courtney-trilogie en dat eerder is uitgegeven onder de titel De ruige kust.In het begin van het boek maakt de lezer kennis met Michael Courtney.
En als het nodig is, geeft Smith bij die enkele verwijzing een korte uitleg ter verduidelijking.De wet van de jungle is ten dele, en dat komt doordat het zich voor een groot deel tijdens de Eerste Wereldoorlog afspeelt, een oorlogsroman, maar vooral een avonturenroman.
Well written, but too Afri-centric. If you don’t know the names of African plants and wildlife, you’ll be pretty lost in the descriptions.I found the main character pathetic. I couldn’t tell if Smith wrote this trying to make women appear strong, or doe-eyed archetypes. The protagonist waffles from walking through a blazing desert while pregnant to flinging her legs in the air for any fertile male who crosses her path.Facts were wrong, timelines messed up, and sex in an open-pot bi-wing just isn’t happening.My first Wilbur Smith book is my last Wilbur Smith book.

Very enjoyable!I enjoyed this book immensely. Couldn't wait to get back to reading it. Wilbur Smith wasn't an author I would normally choose. So pleased I did. Hope to read many more.
Centene leads a charmed life until WWI intrudes. Her time with Michael, trip on a Red Cross ship and trials in interior Aftrica would kill most people. Her time with the San is informative, if primitive. Some transition info seems to be missing, but may be explained in the next book
The plot is a bit soap opera-ish, but Wilbur Smith is such a good writer that I enjoyed the book.
A typical Wilbur Smith adventure story/thriller this time with a woman as the main character.
Did not finish
Half and half. The first half is a bit slow, the second is better and I liked it a lot. I didn't like the ending at all, though.
