https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14479.Amelia_Bedelia_Helps_Out
I read this story book as a child, and I thoroughly enjoyed reading this to my children. Amelia Bedelia is still just as funny as she is to me now as when I was younger. Truly a wonderful book to read to your children!
I like Amelia Bedelia books. They are funny because Amelia Bedelia does stuff wrong, but things always workout. My favorite part in this book was when she put the steak and put it on the bean plants. This book was really good and I would like to try some tea cake sometime.
In this particular episode, Amelia Bedelia is helping out around the house, and, in good 'ole Amelia Bedelia style, many of her chores are done all wrong.
It turns out that, even through Amelia Bedelia followed her "own" recipe in making the tea cake, the tea party turns out alright...great actually.
Miss Emma's friends love it and actually want more...You'll have to tune in to this read for Amelia Bedelia's secret ingredient..., and don't be surprised if you want some yourself.I give it 4 stars.
I guess having a screw loose runs in the family. Or maybe they should hire a tutor. Amelia and her niece team up together to get chores done before the ladies arrive. Cake is what always saves Amelia. Might want to stick with that.Also found out my book is signed by Peggy Parish.. time to freak out!!!
I have such good memories from this book. I laughed and laughed at the silly mistakes Amelia Bedelia would make, some of which stay fresh in my mind!
I always enjoyed reading Amelia Bedelia books as a child and feel that they teach fairly good lessons.
I chose this book in particular because it shows that a person just has to do the best that they can and that people should be forgiving in certain situations.
I enjoyed reading this book but felt that it didn't go in to much depth so I don't know how well this book could be used in the curriculum.
I do think that Amelia Bedelia books should be in classroom bookshelves and in school libraries as I do believe students can learn from these simple stories.
A neighbor needs Amelia Bedelia's helping hands, so everyone's favorite housekeeper is off to Miss Emma's house for a day of work. She makes a merry mess, then feeds delectable desserts. Amelia shows her niece Effie Lou how to follow instructions to the letter as they dust the potato bugs and sew seeds. Fun!!
This is a great book to read to children. It's a very humorous book and will make the children laugh. It's easy to follow along and makes reading enjoyable.
Being familiar with the series made this book very predictable but it was also entertaining and easy to follow along.
I don't see how Amelia Bedelia keeps a job haha
The lady of the house explains to Amelia each task she would like her to do and ask if she has any questions.
After a busy day of many task Amelia took the lady of the house around to show her work off.
Her friends arrived and the lady of the house asked Amelia to bring out the cakes.
They were shocked when the pink cake,not asked to be made which Amelia added herself was the best of the all.
The day ended up being okay and the lady of the house realized Amelia did exactly what she had asked her to do in the first place and could not be mad and her efforts.
When I was younger we used to read Amelia Bedelia every day first thing when we got to school, my teacher used to call it our "warm up" book.
The reason I love this so much is because my favorite line from all the books is when she was supposed to call roll and she got a roll out of a students lunch box, sat the roll in the middle of the aisle way, went to the other side and started saying, "roll, roll, come here roll." I like this book particularly from the series because Amelia is showing her niece how to follow directions.
Amelia Bedelia Helps Out is a humorous story written by Peggy Parish that tells of a young woman maid and her niece, Effie Lou, helping out her friend, Miss Emma, before her tea party.
Miss Emma tells her to "weed the garden," and Amelia and Effie Lou actually put more weeds into the garden.
The illustrations in this story are simple, but beautiful, cartoons that are great for the readers to see on every page.
The story was simple but humorous and had wonderful illustrations to follow.
Amelia Bedelia is a hilarious story about a young girl who is stuck with a list of chores to finish.
Throughout the story Amelia Bedelia is way to literal when it comes to completing the chores.
I would remind students that without looking at the story they can form a vision of a character.
I would remind students they have to pay attention to the details in the story to help develop the character in their brain.
I will reread specific pages in the story for students to see examples of words describing the character.
Starring everyone's favourite literal–minded housekeeper, Amelia Bedelia Helps Out appears for the first time in full colour and as an I Can Read Book!
It's a good thing Miss Emma likes to laugh, because Amelia Bedelia makes her usual merry mess!" Available for the first time in full color!" The zany antics of Amelia Bedelia, one of children's books most lovable characters, have been enjoyed by kids for more than 40 years!" Herman Parish, nephew to Peggy Parish, who was the original creator of Amelia Bedelia, carries on the tradition of his aunt with new books starring the entertaining housekeeper.
I have loved the Amelia Bedelia series of books since I was in elementary school.
So, Amelia puts weeds in the garden, ties stakes to the beans, and puts tea in the cake!
This book will have children laughing so hard and being entertained by Amelia's silly ways.
I think this story, or any Amelia Bedelia story would be great to use while doing a lesson on idioms.
These stories would be great becasue Amelia is actually taking these idioms seriously, even though she is not doing what people are wanting her to do.
Amelia Bedelia is off to Miss Emma's house to help with some housekeeping.
She must stake the beans, weed the garden, and make a tea cake.
So Amelia puts steak pieces into the beans, adds more weeds to the garden, and makes cake with tea in it.
Luckily, Miss Emma has a humorous side and doesn't get upset with Amelia Bedelia.
The plot is very humorous, and is easy for children to follow along.
I always loved reading the Amelia Bedelia books growing up.
reading this book is just a reminder of when i was little and my babysitter would read this to me.
I never realized this before but the language in this book is really kind of proper.
The story is funny because they did every one of those chores wrong without realizing it.
This is kind of a long book for a little kid to read and isn't a book i would start them off with.
The thickness is like a small chapter books but with all the vivid pictures it can be seen as a picture book as well.
Amelia Bedelia helps out is a funny book, and Is great for children to read.
She thinks she knows what she is supposed to do, but she takes everything so literal.
She was supposed to feed chicken scraps so she put old clothing scraps out for them.
She was supposed to make tea cakes for the party, she actually put tea bags in it.
She decided to make a recipe of her own.
Everyone ended up loving the recipe that she made.
Amelia's boss did not yell and get mad at her because she basically did everything she was asked.
I loved the Amelia Bedilia books.
I've never laughed so hard while reading a book to my daughter.You know how when you read aloud and your eyes read ahead of what is actually coming out of your mouth, well half the time I was laughing so hard about something before I managed to read it out loud to my daughter.
It's been quite a few years since I've read the books but I loved every Amelia Bedilia book and plan on getting ahold of them again soon so I can read them to my grand daughter.All the Amelia Bedilia books are highly recommended.
I normally love Amelia Bedelia books, and read this one to my four year old charge as a way to introduce him to the series.
It might have been the presence of Amelia's niece.
The two of them shared some very stilted dialogue that made the book less enjoyable.
There is no rule that says the dialogue in a child's book has to be choppy, but it seems to be a trend in the older books.I will be bringing more Amelia Bedelia books for the boys, but I don't think this one will be making a repeat appearance.
Amelia Bedelia is a housekeeper with her own way of doing things. Her greatest fault is that she is very literal--she does exactly as she is told. In this particular story, she is asked to help her neighbor and the usual antics ensue. I loved Amelia Bedelia books as a child, and even today I think they are entertaining. This book is considered an "I Can Read Book" so it's a good choice for young readers. I think many children, like myself will delight in her zany approach to tasks and might even find her outrageous, as I did.
Does the action escalate , Yes it does once you thought she couldn't do any more wrong she finds a way to go above an beyond wrong Amelia Bedelia is a long time favorite in this story she has a list of simple task that dosen't always get done the way your normal helper would do . this book brings laughs an smiles to any readers face i highly recommend this book to in young child . Teacher , Or parent.! this is a good read one to remember !
Amelia Bedelia is a one of a kind lady that likes to help clean up houses and do whatever she can to lend a hand. BUT her way of thinking and other peoples way of thinking doesn't always come out the same in the end. In this book she has her little niece helping her out and they giggle and laugh through their tasks only to find out that the 'tea cake' that neither one has ever heard of turns out to be the hit of the party! And her host isn't so mad at her after all...
I forgot how much I liked this book series. Amelia Bedelia is back with Effie Lou to help do some chores for a neighbor. Hilarious interpretations are had by Amelia as she misunderstands what Miss Emma wants her to do. The illustrations are simple but help explain the comedy in the story. A great beginner reader book for first and second graders.
A neighbor needs Amelia Bedelia's helping hands, so everyone's favorite housekeeper is off to Miss Emma's house for a day of work. She makes a merry mess, then feeds delectable desserts to guests, here tea cake with pink icing. Amelia shows her niece Effie Lou how to follow instructions to the letter as they add big weeds, dust potato bugs, feed hens quilting square 'scraps', and sew grass seeds.
Funny story about how Amelia and Effie Lou help her Aunt, Miss Emma with her party preparations-- making a tea cake, sewing seeds, throwing scraps (quilting scraps) to the chickens, weeding the gardens (moving the big weeds to protect the other plants), staking the beans with steaks. Amelia takes everything literally, the humor might be missed by a few young readers.
typical amelia bedelia...confusing the words to help children learn in this title showing her at work with her niece at miss emma's. truth be told, i tire a bit of her shenanigans but understand why the children do not.
kaitlyn amelia bedilia and her littl niece effie lou have to come help mrs. emma take car of her house and gardon. you can just imagene how messed up things get when amelia bedelia startes telling her niece what needs to be done! I really liked this book.
a hilarious story of miss understandingsa great series of mixed up directions and literal meanings, this is a great silly series to show children that mistakes and mix ups are possible if not probable, and that innocence may be more of the reason then meaning to do something wrong/
