https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6369447
Even if you haven't read this book, even if your introduction to Karna is through the Mahabharata alone, you cannot help but feel empathy for the eldest son of Kunti.
Karna opens and takes us closer to the end of his story, interspersed with chapters by Kunti (his mother), Duryodhana (his best friend), Vrishali (his wife), Shon (his younger foster brother) and a grand ending by the Lord, Sri Krishna himself.
The characters of Vrishali and Shon for example, are given such appropriate voices, that you are left wondering whether Sawant had the fortune of stumbling upon some long lost letters written by them.
One of the best book i have read after such a long time.
I wanted to read this book for such a long time.This book focus on Karna and his role in Mahabharata.
The author has chosen different characters Vrushali (wife), Kunti (mother) , Duryodhana(friend), Shon (brother), Krishna to tell the tale of this great character, along with Karna's own version of his own life.
He beautifully describes the life of Karna - the ever compromising, stronger than everyone yet humble about it, rightfully a prince but denounced as a charioteer.
The unique style of writing where different characters tell the story from their perspective make the reading quite interesting.
करणकथा दानशूर करण!महारथी करण!जयेषठ कौनतेय!राधेय!सुरयपुतर!करण! करण! करण!तयाचा तयाग, तयाने भोगलेलया यातना, सोसलेले कषट, तयाचं निखळ मितरपरेम, तयाचा आदरशवाद… सारं कसं सावंत डोळयांपुढे जिवंत उभं करतात! बोजड भाषेचया साखळदंडांना सहज तोडून पुढे उभी राहते, ती ही करणकथा! वाचून मन कषुबध करून टाकते, करणासाठी डोळयांत अशरू उभी करते, ती ही परभावी, परेरक, हृदयदरावक, जिवंत करणकथा! वेळ मिळाला तर जरूर वाचावी अशी!भाषाजेंवहा पुसतक वाचायला सुरुवात केली, तेवहा वाटलं, "अरे देवा! कोणती बुदधी सुचली आणि हे वाचायला घेतलं!"
वाचून मन क्षुब्ध करून टाकते, कर्णासाठी डोळ्यांत अश्रू उभी करते, ती ही प्रभावी, प्रेरक, हृदयद्रावक, जिवंत कर्णकथा!
वेळ मिळाला तर जरूर वाचावी अशी!भाषाजेंव्हा पुस्तक वाचायला सुरुवात केली, तेव्हा वाटलं, "अरे देवा!
कोणती बुद्धी सुचली आणि हे वाचायला घेतलं!" जड जड विशेषणांचा वापर करून बोजड झालेली सावंतांची भाषा माझ्या सहनशक्तीचा अंत पाहत होती!
तेंव्हा त्यांनी पाने-नि-पाने भरून सांगितलेलं तत्वज्ञान, आणि नंतरचा धृतराष्ट्राचा निर्णय कोणत्याही तर्कशुद्ध माणसाला पटणार नाही.प्रत्येक ठिकाणी निसर्गातल्या गोष्टींच्या आधारे कधी रूपक अलंकारातून, तर कधी उपमेच्या मदतीने जीवनाच्या विविध अंगाची सांगड घालून सांगितलेलं तत्वज्ञान संस्कृत श्लोकांत चांगलं दिसत असेलही, पण जेंव्हा सावंत पाना-पानांत सारखं तेच करतात, तेव्हा मात्र जाम कंटाळा येतो!
Their wealthy and decadent lifestyle, which is overpowered by ego, treachery, selfishness on one side and by virtue, selflessness, integrity and love on the other side, which weaves a web called life and consumes a person in the tangles of revenge and rivalry.This book portrays karna, with all his flaws and does not just show him as an epitome of goodness.
The ending is concluded well, with Sri Krishna reciting the ultimate war and karna`s noble death.Nevertheless this book teaches a lot in terms of good and bad, having the ability to bring tears into the reader`s eyes.
Back in 1999 I was a bachelors student of chemical engineering at IIT Kanpur.
This particular IIT has always been very particular about academics & we 2nd year students had to spent 4-5 hrs@daily in the fantastic central library.The library was three storied & centrally air cooled.
Therein among the many version of Koran, Gita & Ramayan, tucked away was this book 'Mrityunjaya' English translation by the Writer's Workshop Calcutta.Flipping away few pages got me hooked & I got this book issued.
Completed this book within 3 days & was mesmerized.Read it again 5-6 times in my 3rd & 4th year, till the time I was there in IIT.
We get a different perspective on each of the characters, specially the principal narrators, Karna, Kunti, Duryodhana and Krishna and to a lesser extent Vrishali and Shona.
Indeed the description of Draupadi's disrobing and Karna's own conduct during the episode is one of the best parts of the book.
If at all, there is a negative character in this book, it is Drona.No one seems to have a great opinion of him, not even his son, Ashwathama, who is shown to be a close friend of Karna (at some level, even closer than Duryodhana).
But the book is totally worth it.The book is a psychological insight into various characters of Mahabharat - primarily that of Karna.
The English version of the book, although a little hazy with language, nonetheless forms a great read.
The highs and lows of Karna's life (and also that of others) are all too vivid.
This is one of the very few books that made me empathize for the protagonist.
This is one book that would stay on my bookshelf forever.PS : If you are good with Marathi, read the original Marathi edition of this book.
'Mrityunjay' takes us through the life of Karna right from his birth till his death, and is a story from different character POVs (including his own) - characters who were close to Karna - like his wife Vrushali, his friend Duryodhan, his brother Shon, his mother Kunti and ends with the POV of Krishna - which makes this book a treat with respect to philosophical learnings and the actual war story.
The book is not entirely canonical and gives us a rather humane viewpoint into the happenings of the Mahabharata.
Karna's valour, his thoughts, his behaviour is entirely laid bare in this book.
The Pandavas are also shown in a more humanistic light as most other MBH books often paint them in all bright and Godly colours however they were humans and they too had their bad sides.
This book has epitomized this principle and has given a rather stark and beautiful picture of the life of one of the greatest human beings who ever lived.
I have one "new in a box" book to sell. It is signed by the publisher and is a collector's edition; the cover is made of raw silk. English edition.Let me know if you are interested.
This book has been on my TBR for a long time, and finally, I managed to finish it.
When the flesh-and-bones living behaves like the dead, then the dead have to come alive and speak out.”Vasu is an adopted son of Radha and Adirath.
Contradictory to this, Karna wanted to be a warrior so Adirath took him to the Hastinapur.Now here comes the main part, Being the sutaputra Guru Drona does not accept him as his disciple.
In Hastinapur he meets various people like Arjun, Duryodhan.
Whereas Duryodhan becomes his friend.Karna has to go through with various ups and down which finally put him in the mouth of death.
Although this has been translated in many languages, something is always lost in the process and i have been lucky to read the original book. This is among the best books i have ever read with the characters so alive that kept lingering in my thoughts for several weeks. Mrityunjay means the one who conquers death and truly Karna does. This book is about Karna life and death. I can never compliment the author enough for presenting a story already known my all in a way that doesn't allow the reader to put down the book.
When we look close we can no one is advocating for dharma, everyone is selfish .So it isnt appropriate to picture Dhuryodhana as a coward in this manner, as far as i know , he is brave and strong like Bheema.Its pretty difficult to point who is the best Karna,Arjuna or Bheema.But by considering the situational disadvantages, donating behaviour and discrimination to his race , curses etc merits karna to become the greatest warrior ever lived.the way krishna is preached as the god with noble virtues makes the novels designation to faint at times where krishna becomes more or less the shakuni of pandavas.
It is often said that the books of our childhood offer a vivid door to our own pasts, and not necessarily for the stories we read there, but for the memories of where we were and who we were when we were reading them; to remember a book is to remember the child who read that book.
Simply put, Mrityunjaya is about the search for meaning of being is a man's eternal quest.
In fact, Mrityunjaya only deepens it.
Summing up, Mrityunjaya is one of the most eloquently narrated books and is most certainly a book worth adding to one's reading collection.
കർണൻ ! കഷതരിയനായി ജനിചചിടടും സൂതപുതരനായ കർണൻ ... കൌനതെയനായിടടും രാധേയനായി ജീവിചച കർണൻ...സൂരയ പുതരനായി ജനിചചു സൂരയദേവനെ മാനസ ഗുരു ആകകിയ കർണൻ ! ജനമസിദധമായ കവച കുണടലങങളുടെ രഹസയമറിയാതെ പോയ കർണൻ ... സാവനതിനറെ "മൃതയുംജയ" .. അർജുന ..ഭീമ..യുധിഷഠിരൻ മാരുടെ വിഗരഹങങൽ ഉടചചു എനറെ മനസസിൽ കർണ വിഗരഹം പരതിഷടിചച ഒരു സൃഷടി തനനെയാണ... ഭീമനോടുളള ആരാധന മൂലമാകാം..അദദേഹതതിനെ ഒരു ദവനതയുധവീരനും എടുതതു ചാടടകകാരനും മാതരം ആയി ചിതരീകരിചചതിനോടു ഒരു വിഷമവും ആതമകധാമശ രൂപതതിലുളള കർണൻ വായിചചപപോൾ തോനനിപപോയി ...
കർണൻ ! ക്ഷത്രിയനായി ജനിച്ചിട്ടും സൂതപുത്രനായ കർണൻ ... കൌന്തെയനായിട്ടും രാധേയനായി ജീവിച്ച കർണൻ...സൂര്യ പുത്രനായി ജനിച്ചു സൂര്യദേവനെ മാനസ ഗുരു ആക്കിയ കർണൻ ! ജന്മസിദ്ധമായ കവച കുണ്ടലങ്ങളുടെ രഹസ്യമറിയാതെ പോയ കർണൻ ... സാവന്തിന്റെ "മൃത്യുംജയ" .. അർജുന ..ഭീമ..യുധിഷ്ഠിരൻ മാരുടെ വിഗ്രഹങ്ങൽ ഉടച്ചു എന്റെ മനസ്സിൽ കർണ വിഗ്രഹം പ്രതിഷ്ടിച്ച ഒരു സൃഷ്ടി തന്നെയാണ്... ഭീമനോടുള്ള ആരാധന മൂലമാകാം..അദ്ദേഹത്തിനെ ഒരു ദ്വന്തയുധവീരനും എടുത്തു ചാട്ടക്കാരനും മാത്രം ആയി ചിത്രീകരിച്ചതിനോടു ഒരു വിഷമവും ആത്മകധാമ്ശ രൂപത്തിലുള്ള കർണൻ വായിച്ചപ്പോൾ തോന്നിപ്പോയി ...
The Mahabharat is my favorite epic. I’ve read numerous versions of it and Mrityunjay was always on my list. ‘Birth over Worth’ - an unfortunate yet central theme of Karna’s life is something that is sadly, still relevant even in today’s times. You just can’t help but feel the strongest sense of empathy for him.He’s always been my favorite character in the Mahabharat and the book certainly reaffirms that. Karna, you might have had certain character flaws, but you are my hero.
It is one of the greatest books i have ever read!must read at least once.
The novel is split into 9 books, each of then narrated as a monologue by Karna and other characters like Kunti, Krishna, (each of the 3 have 2 books of monologue), Duryodhana, Vrishali (Karna's wife) and Shom (Karna's step-brother).The monologues of Karna are the best of the lot.
I had read somewhere else that Karna did not have a happy marital life as his wife who supposedly was royalty, was contempous of his origins and was insulting to him, but here Samant gives us a different version.
This book is Karna's life depicting the psychological traumas undergone by the main characters surrounding his life due to social conventions imposed on the people.
This depicts his internal battle to overcome the difficulties he had in deciding what is moral, just and "dharma".The first half has a lot of grammatical and spelling error which is not present as much in the second half.This book has various chapters in which Kunti, Shon (Karna's brother), Vrishali( K's wife) and Krishna speaks in first person, trying to explain what they see through their limited resources.This book helps one to stand in their shoes and view and judge what is right and wrong and diffused.
This has to be the best book I have ever read in my life.
Although it has been translated in many languages, something is always lost in translation so I would recommend people to read it in the original Marathi language.The novel is basically an interpretation of the epic Mahabharat from Karan's (a key character in Mahabharat) perspective.
It explains his mindset, the choices he made and the equanimity with which he had to face the consequences.For people not versed with Mahabharat, y'all would probably need some more background and readings before you can pick this up.
Life is worth living to read such books.Abhinav
It takes you to a different world!
The reasons for which he stood by Kauravas side makes us look at the epic from a different perspective.
The best part is the conflicts that occur in Karna's mind and the decisions made by him.
These are the questions that arise in every ones mind.
The book helped me resolve many such conflicts and confusions!
This book will remain my inspiration in life.
It teaches you the ways to deal with the dilemmas between good and bad ; What all people can do to impede you, but if you can gauge everything and remain true to yourself ,nothing else matters!!
This is a well written book. But I can't give more stars for this and the reason behind that is Randamoozham. While reading Karnan, and I find myself comparing this book with Randamoozham. According to me,Randamoozham was a step ahead in the way story is told, portrayal of all characters, about kurukshetra war etc. (Frankly speaking, i didn't like the way Bhima is shown in this book;) That is another reason for giving less rating:P ). Eventhough it is little dragging in some places, still I can say it is an intresting book.
ജീവിതകാലം മുഴുവന മാനുഷികവും ദൈവികവുമായ വെലലുവിളികള ആതമധൈരയതതോടെ നേരിടട കരണനറെ ജീവചരിതരം. കരണന, കുനതി, ദുരയോധനന വൃകഷാലി, ശോണന, ശരീകൃഷണന എനനിവരുടെ ആതമകഥാംശരൂപതതിലുളള വിവരണങങളിലൂടെ കരണകഥയോടൊപപം മഹാഭാരത കഥമുഴുവന ആഖയാനം ചെയതിരികകുനനു. കൗനതേയനായിടടും രാധേയനായി തനനെ മരിചച കർണണനറെ ജീവചരിതരം, എലലാവരാലും അപമാനികകപപെടട ദാനവീരനറെ ജീവിതം വളരെ മനോഹരമായി അവതരിപപിചചിരികകുനനു . ഒരുപാടു പാഠങങൾ നമമുടെ ജീവിതതതിലേകകും പകർതതാൻ നമുകകെലലാവരകകും ഒരു പാഠപുസതകമാകടടെ കർണണനറെ വയകതിപരഭാവം എനന ആശംസികകുനനു.
ജീവിതകാലം മുഴുവന്‍ മാനുഷികവും ദൈവികവുമായ വെല്ലുവിളികള്‍ ആത്മധൈര്യത്തോടെ നേരിട്ട കര്‍ണന്റെ ജീവചരിത്രം. കര്‍ണന്‍, കുന്തി, ദുര്യോധനന്‍ വൃക്ഷാലി, ശോണന്‍, ശ്രീകൃഷ്ണന്‍ എന്നിവരുടെ ആത്മകഥാംശരൂപത്തിലുള്ള വിവരണങ്ങളിലൂടെ കര്‍ണകഥയോടൊപ്പം മഹാഭാരത കഥമുഴുവന്‍ ആഖ്യാനം ചെയ്തിരിക്കുന്നു. കൗന്തേയനായിട്ടും രാധേയനായി തന്നെ മരിച്ച കർണ്ണന്റെ ജീവചരിത്രം, എല്ലാവരാലും അപമാനിക്കപ്പെട്ട ദാനവീരന്റെ ജീവിതം വളരെ മനോഹരമായി അവതരിപ്പിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നു . ഒരുപാടു പാഠങ്ങൾ നമ്മുടെ ജീവിതത്തിലേക്കും പകർത്താൻ നമുക്കെല്ലാവര്ക്കും ഒരു പാഠപുസ്തകമാകട്ടെ കർണ്ണന്റെ വ്യക്തിപ്രഭാവം എന്ന് ആശംസിക്കുന്നു.
A beautiful book, powerfully written that captures the character of Karan with such an Essence of his values, struggles and decisions between limited choices. The end chapters of the book has left me with such an emptiness as the one that can be imagined after a war is over. This is a masterpiece of the Mahabharata .
One of the best Book I ever read! Best writing style. Best story. I recommend every reader to read this one if you know Mahabharat. I cried at least for half a day after finishing book - was so much involved.
This is one of the masterpeices of Marathi literature. Though its a bit one sided but compelling reading none the less
One of the best books I have ever read and I will ever read !
Though born as the eldest pandava, Karna is brought-up by a charioteer family.
Though he wanted to use Karna to defeat the Pandavas, in many instances in the story, we feel his friendship to be selfless.
Whereas Karna is steadfast to moral principles, be it when Indra comes in disguise to as his Armour as alms, or while letting go Bheema missing an opportunity to kill him to fulfil the promise he had given to Kunthi before the Kurukshethra war.
Krishna plays a skilled diplomat when, before the war he tries to bring Karna to their side by letting him know of his original family.
You do not have to be a fan of Karna, read it for a different POV where the Pandavas are not always right.
Pandavas reaction on finding out the truth of Karna from Kuntis POV2.
Duryodhans POV after Karna is dead and how he breaks down and meets his end.This according to me would have been a perfect closure to a wonderful book.The English translation had basic grammatical errors but I'll let that be as the book in itself is so powerful that I didn't mind the elementary English.
A wonderful read!
Most of the people got acquainted with the mahabharata through the popular sitcom.
MRITUNJAY scores high not only by providing the point of view of each and every prominent person but also maintaining a neutral tone.
KARNA remains the most mysterious and intriguing character of Mahabharta, mritunjay delves inside the anals of history plundering and conjuring bits and scrapes of detailed info,merging it into a action-cum-drama saga.
On completing the book,i found my view point about the great war altered and even an insensitive jerk like me was moved by the sufferings of KARNA.
