https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161913-wild-town
Jim Thompson has basically written a locked-room mystery in a West Texas, frontier boom town.
There are several femme fatales, a sheriff that seems to be brilliant and quietly manipulative, a slow-witted, hot-headed house detective, and a shabby hotel.
Not my favorite Thompson, but that belittles the truth.
I love all Jim Thompson's stuff.
He writes from both the head and the gut.
Each of his novels seem to contain a bit of Crime AND Punishment.
Thompson isn't just writing about crime and criminals.
You can certainly read Thompson as a transgressive, crime fiction writer, but he is so much more.
Φίλος μεν ο Thompson, φιλτάτη δε η αλήθεια! Με λίγα λόγια, σαφώς δεν ανήκει στα αριστουργήματά του. Ευχάριστο, αλλά πέραν αυτού, ουδέν.
I’ve never read a bad Jim Thompson. The world he creates is so real and yet so his, you can almost smell the cheap whisky and desperation. This is another great tale of suckers, hard dames and homicide, with an ending that defies expectations to such an extent it is brilliant.
Not the best Thompson (see The Criminal for a perfectly formed noir), but still a sizzling, hot little thriller.
Hard to engage with the characters here, and they are almost caricatures, drawn without the usual Thompson eye for subtle shades of colour.
The plot is rather thin, but plot was never really the point of Thompson's work - it's the zingy one liners, the oppressive noir atmosphere, and his Dostoevsky like ability to draw complex, layered and morally compromised characters.
Jim Thompson was incapable of writing a bad book, and this is still worth reading, just not up there with his best.
Detective per necessitàBugs ha un passato travagliato, tra botte alla moglie, poliziotti uccisi e prigione, prigione e ancora prigione.Agli occhi del mondo, le sue ragioni non importano, non fanno differenza.Eppure Bugs ha un codice morale in grado di renderlo migliore di molti ex detenuti, ed è questo che intuisce Lou Ford, vice sceriffo dalla personalità complessa, quando decide di dargli il lavoro di Detective di un hotel.Godibile, ma un Thompson meno imprevedibile del solito, soprattutto nel finale, solitamente un suo punto di forza.
Perhaps not top shelf Thompson, but fans of his will enjoy this much tamer whodunit tale of murder and extortion set in and around The Hanlon hotel in a west Texas oil boom town.Bugs McKenna, ex-cop and ex-con all rolled into one lug, is fresh out of jail and is given a hand-plucked opportunity to be the house dick at the Hanlon (that's house detective, you pervs).
Then for good measure, mix that in with a cast of a few femme-fatales, an eccentric wheelchair bound millionaire, a near virginal school teacher, a roster of roustabouts in the hotel's employ, and not least of which, a county sheriff who just so happens to be Lou Ford, and suddenly Bugs is caught up in yet another no-win situation that he can't escape from.
He even manages to look downright normal compared to the rest of the staff - the alcoholic overly paranoid night manager; the auditor who's sleeping with the owner's wife and skimming the hotel's funds; the twin brother grifter/bellhops.Yes, things are sure starting to look good for our boy Bugs until an accidental death in the wrong place at the wrong time.
One of Thompson's more infamous characters, Lou Ford - the evil, grafting deputy pretending to be a dumb yokel deputy in The Killer Inside Me - has a major role in this book.
It just happens to be set in a parallel universe where Ford grew up to be a grafting, slightly less evil deputy in another small town.
For some reason, local sheriff Lou Ford releases Bugs McKenna from jail and gets him a job at the nicest hotel in town as the house detective.
Bugs can't stop wondering why Ford would do that for a stranger, one with a police record of violence, but he quickly begins to suspect that the smiling, drawling sheriff has a plan that needs a fall guy.If you're like me and discovered Thompson through The Killer Inside Me, you'll be thrilled to find that he's plucked some of his characters from that amazing book and dropped them here.
I suppose this is sort of a prequel to "The Killer Inside Me." Sheriff Lou Ford appears here at his manipulative best -- before the cracks started to appear in his armour. He uses school teacher Amy as a pawn in his plans and you just fear for how he'll treat her down the road. I enjoyed this book and seeing a functioning sociopath at work.
Uninspiring protagonist but neat plot and hey, Lou Ford's in it.
What makes it surprising is that Thompson does not use the typical mystery story motifs and plotting, so that the mystery of who killed hotel accountant Dudley is somewhat out of focus.
McKenna is wary of Ford's reason for having him hired, but McKenna sees this as his last opportunity to turn his life around and make good.
The one complaint I have about the novel is the ending, which is a Jim Thompson slightly sideways from normal means of gathering the suspects and explaining everything in heavy exposition (in this case, having Lou Ford explain it all to a semi-comotose Mike Hanlon at the hospital).
Thompson's characters are an unsympathetic bunch, in particular "Bugs" McKenna, naive and slow-witted house detective in a West Texas hotel (think better-looking Gomer Pyle) and the ludicrous women- femme fatale, nice girl no better than she should be, dutiful chambermaid- who buzz around (and use) him, in this tale of murder, blackmail and corruption, written very obviously by a male author for a male readership.
Ford features again in The Killer Inside Me so that's my next foray into Thompson's work, hopefully something altogether darker, proper noir rather than this lightweight novel.
David "Bugs" McKenna always seems to be in trouble, maybe not always his fault, but that's the life he leads. When he heads to a small town that may change, but you never know just what life might hand you.
Has its moments, second tier Thompson is still better than almost anything, and I don’t regret reading it, but this is one Thompson book I won’t be returning to - for completists only.
I have read at least three other books by Jim Thompson: Pop. 1280; A Hell of a Woman; and The Killer Inside Me. Those three books were brilliant depictions of the twisted workings of pathological and criminal minds.
Wild Town, in contrast, is a fairly conventional book.
Also, I didn't find the pacing or the style nearly as compelling as in any of the three books mentioned above.
Of interest to those who may have already read The Killer Inside Me is the fact that its central character, Lou Ford, also appears in Wild Town.
I just wasn't that crazy about this one. To tell you the truth, I lost track of the mystery about halfway through and by the end of it I just didn't really give a damn. As with all Thompson, passages are sheer brilliance, but it was overall just to dull and confused for my taste. Another hotel story, which I liked. The other Thompson hotel-staff story is A Swell-Looking Babe, which I liked much better.
I struggled through this one after the reasonable good setup where Bugs McKenna is released from jail by Deputy Lou Ford ( recurring character of Thompson's) and given a job as a hotel detective. Plenty of noir dealings and double dealings, but the plot and the narrative shifts are almost incomprehensible at times. The ending, where Lou Ford spends five pages describing what really happened, pretty much confirmed my sense that Thompson had lost control of the narrative and had to tell us what he'd fail to show in the course of the novel. Not his best.
This is another book I'm revisiting this year.
I wasn't impressed the first time around, but even with it's fault, I really enjoyed it.
Nothing is as it seems in Ragtown or at the Hanlon Hotel.
I've not read any other Jim Thompson, so I can't compar4e it, but from other reviews it seems this is not his greatest.
I'm now interested in reading some more--especially with the same characters which I understand there are.
In the meantime, Wild Town is a fun read with it's convoluted ending.
For someone who doesn't have much experience with women, Bug sure turns into a chick magnet fast.
it's always a little weird when authors re-use characters,but here Thompson forklifted Lou Ford and Amy Standish from 'The Killer Inside Me' but completely changed their motivations. Hard to shed the baggage of their earlier incarnations.Aside from that, the dénouement had things way moreconvoluted than expected, and a bit unbelievable.
Read The Getaway or Pop. 1280 instead of this messy book. The plot doesn't really pay off too well, and it's another one of his hotel mysteries in a similar vein to A Swell Looking Babe. There's also a three-babe buffet similar to The Grifters.But hell, read The Killer Inside Me or After Dark My Sweet instead.
I've read a lot of Jim Thompson books and this certainly isn't one of the better ones. Here the author re-uses Lou Ford from The Killer Inside Me, but unfortunately this strange quasi-prequel isn't of the standard of Killer.
With this book I have completed all the Jim Thompson I could get my hands on. Bugs McKenna, an ex-con, gets to be a hotel detective and that's when the hell begins in this frontier oil boom town.
Intrigante, envolvente, inteligentemente resuelta, como todo lo que hace este gran autor; no obstante, no logra los alcances ni la fuerza narrativa de sus grandes obras.
The book faithfully portrays the slow witted protagonist and his interpretation of events until the complicated reality is revealed at the end in the manner of a Sherlock Holmes or Simenon mystery.
A rather restrained Jim Thompson pot-boiler. Relatively violence-free - a real departure.Not up to his best works such as THE KILLER INSIDE ME nor THE GRIFTERS.
I like the stories also by this Jim. The narration, the story - and the narrator voice too.Format: audio, nls
***1/2
An entertaining whodunnit-Thompson filled with unexpected plot-twists, otherwise rather straight forward. J.T. is always worth my while.
Thompson explores parallel world concepts or my sense of time is incorrect.
