https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32533.The_Art_of_Fiction
Attitude problems aside, after all, Gardner does provide great advice and a clear theoretical approach to writing fiction.For practical purposes, the second half of the book, devoted to a discussion of common mistakes and how to avoid them, is particularly useful.
Most practically useful and least often found in other books on writing fiction that I have read are 1) the section on rhythm in writing prose, in which he provides sample sentences analyzed with metrical analysis and briefly discusses poetic terminology I'd forgotten (iambs, dactyls, anapests, etc.) in the interest of helping the writer make artistic decisions on a sentence by sentence level, and 2) a chapter on plotting, in which he discusses various approaches to plotting and how these various approaches may work well or less well with different forms (e.g., short story, novella, novel) or with different plot structures.
The incredibly arrogant tone and egotistical voice of Gardner drove me nuts at times but I plowed through to the end.The book's in two parts, the first is a collection of four essays on literature - titled 'Notes on Literary-Aesthetic Theory' - of which, the first two were engaging and insightful.
The second part of the book - Notes on the Fictional Process - contained three chapters on writing 'Common Errors', 'Technique' and 'Plotting'.
Of these, only 'Technique' was useful and offered new input compared to most general writing books out there.
The other chapters were somewhat dull and unnecessarily technical, again elaborating Gardner's self-love of his own voice.
for my creative writing class. 40 pages in, I've found a lot of useful thought, but my reactions scribbled in the margins have tended towards"And Lord Gardner now graces the mere mortals with his beneficent gift of knowledge. How kind."and "Everytime you're a misogynist, God kills a kitten."and "I think every 11th grade English teacher in America would disagree, Johnny." (re: Steinbeck's "failure" of a novel, the unheard of and obviously inferior Grapes of Wrath)REGARDLESS, if you want to write and can deal with Gardner's elitism, sexist prose, and overblown ego, this seems like an excellent resource.
He discusses prose that disrupts the dream, such as accidental and inappropriate rhymes, inconsistent diction, overloaded sentences, and shifts in psychic distance.While Gardner emphasizes natural talent and instinct, he provides practical techniques, examples, and exercises that are certainly useful.I noted terms Gardner used, such as psychic distance ("the distance between the narrative and mind, heart, and body of the pov character.") and profluence ("a requirement best satisfied by a sequence of causally related events, a sequence that can end in only one of two ways: in resolution … or in logical exhaustion.").
In a way, I was discouraged by "The Art of Fiction" because it made me feel like less of an intellectual.
So, maybe it's my own fault I couldn't look past the pomposity of it all to respect Gardner the way others tell me I should.
Because, while I may have limped through this one, the amount of underlining and bookmarking I did clearly illustrates I learned a few things like:• Writers should create a work of fiction that reads like a dream.
• Even worse than clumsy writing, according to Gardner, is faults of soul: sentimentality, frigidity, and mannerism.
Instead, "The Art of Fiction" is half literary theory and assumptions that all readers of this book are college educated people and the other half is equally as pompous diatribe on the fundamentals of writing: rhythm, style, plot and point of view.
However, the whole time I read, I couldn't help but think of how this book, touted as "notes on craft for young writers" would turn off and completely discourage young writers who did not attend college.
The college writing class experiences he mentions throughout the first half of the book were definitely not the experiences I had as while pursuing my degree.
Passionate, evangelical, profound, deeply moving and extremely useful, it's meant for advanced writing students.
But everyone interested in writing can benefit from reading it -- beginner, advanced and professional.
Even book lovers who have no interest in becoming writers will become better readers for having come in contact with Gardner's wisdom.How powerful is this book?
After I gave my father a copy to read, he called me up in tears, saying he felt that he had wasted his life by not becoming a writer!PS: Astoundingly, many younger, college-age reviewers on Amazon.com criticize this book for its tone, which they find pedantic, high-handed, superior, and generally overbearing -- like, you know, he was a college professor or something (he was; he was also Raymond Carver's writing teacher).
Despite Gardner's claim that this is "the best book of its kind," I didn't find it helpful at all.
Most of Gardner's ideas are surprisingly shallow considering how pretentiously (and obnoxiously) he writes.
A novel like GRAPES OF WRATH, on the other hand, Gardner considers to be a "failure." If you want to learn to be a popular writer, or to make any money whatsoever at your craft, don't expect to get much out of this book other than a few basic notions of common sense.
reading again ... always something good to think about as I write and edit the sequel to A FLOOD OF EVIL A Flood of Evil
One is constantly assessing whether her mind, indeed, is worth treasuring, in every page.Beyond the inspirational sentences and the deeply funny critiques of whole segments of the writing population (and, upon special occasion, a particular writer or work), this book is unusual and ideal in its teaching.
Can you learn the craft of writing by reading a book?
"Nobody's perfect, they generously observe.
But the true artist is impatient with such talk.
Perfection means hitting exactly what you are aiming at and not touching by a hair what you are not." Gardner is mercilessly, obsessively scrupulous, almost to the level of snobbishness, in his concern that fiction should be 'moral'--that is, that every little gesture, every syllable, should ring true to human experience.
He is also teaching me a hundred times more about what it means to be a really good author than all the "just-follow-your-dreams-and-be-yourself" mush one is fed incessantly these days.
Lo marco ya como terminado porque lo acabé el lunes (el último día que me daban de plazo), aunque me faltaron las últimas diez páginas. No obstante, algún día haré una relectura porque es un libro MUY TÉCNICO con mucha teoría que merece ser desglosada. No le doy más puntuación porque el autor me ha parecido bastante elitista, machista y subjetivo con algunas cosas.
Realistic (and what voices are more commonly linked to each type of fictional story).2) The importance of rhythm.3) That a character's internal obstacles must be as compelling as his external ones (might seem like a no-brainer, but I guess not for me).4) The vocab list that you get from reading his writing.Lastly, while yes you can get most of the above from some of the other books on writing, you won't get the seriousness (dare I say abrasive truths) of what it means to be a writer and then what it takes to write well.
This book on fiction writing is commonly recommended.
I found it hard to maintain interest.High points: Gardner's concept of 'psychic distance' as part of POV; the concept of 'frigidity' (when the writer accidentally lets slip that he really doesn't care about a character) and 'profluence', the reader's sense that the story is progressing.
Unlike virtually all modern fiction writers, Gardner doesn't like the third person limited POV, and prefers omniscient.
Gardner relentlessly talks about the morality of writing.
In summation: This book has some interesting and unique material in amongst a lot of less useful material and a lot of rambling, dull prose.
As the title reflects, it explores fiction as both craft and art.
But he managed to fuse together solid writing advice with interesting theory in a way that challenged me to think about how I approach writing (without making me feel like I had to write like ~*the classics*~).
I've seen people say that this book is only for those who write literary fiction, but I disagree and I think Gardner would too.
Regardless of your genre, if you are interested in advancing your writing as craft and art, this is a good read.
quite probably the best book i've ever read on writing.the finest part of it is that it skips all the simple stuff at the baseline level: characterization, metaphor, dialogue.
it assumes at least some education (or habit) in analyzing a text critically.so gardner is free to take off from the middle of the mountain rather than the foothills, and he does so, marvellously.
this book contains, hands-down, the most interesting reading i've ever done on the subject of plot and pacing, two areas that are particularly lacking in most works of this type.if you want to write, read it.
Since the 1980s, when I got "serious" about writing creatively, I've been hearing John Gardner praised to the skies. I suspect he was one of the first writers to really elevate teaching to an art, beating the plethora of "how to write" books that now flood the shelves. And while it's de riguer to speak ill of the dead, I am finding this text both condescending and needlessly dense. Many of his ideas are right on, but I have heard them more accessibly expressed in the past thirty years than they are here. Sorry, John.
A piece from earlier decades, the style is somewhat rambling and pretentious, yet holds a of of soul and is unburdened by the mercantile and overpolished nature of a more modern "on writing" book.
Despite the claim of being for a young writer, the piece is overall a good read.
While an esteemed teacher of writing, as well as a well respected writer in his own right,Gardner freely admits there are no absolutes in creating fiction.
Not surprising, is his assertion that a key to good writing is practice; becoming so at home with those techniques that have worked in the past, that one can move confidently into the challenge of creating something out of nothing, knowing that if he fails it will be due to a lack on insight or inspiration.That's where the gift comes into play!
Equally surprising is his belief one should not follow the age old admonition to "write what you know about";rather,should write in the genre he likes best.
Much of the hostility comes from the Indie writers...certainly not all of them, but a good portion of these that are in the business of producing degraded, junk fiction...with sloppy, one dimensional characters, flaccid plotting, formulaic stories which do naught but follow the pack [vampires, zombies, post-apocalyptic, romance, fantasy, etc.], and insufficient motivation.
If you are a genre writer this may come as a shock; may even be offensive, as is the idea that you should not be a writing until you've mastered grammar and the complexities of punctuation...grammar checkers are simply not cutting it.
Dear Mr. Gardner,You don't know me, but I know you - particularly another work of yours, Grendel.
I was intrigued by your sense of humor and your unerring ear for words.
However, I figured this would be our first and last meeting.Consider me surprised, then, when my parents gave your little gray book to me for Christmas.
"Thought it might be interesting," they said, which is accurate; I plan to go into creative writing, and a little guidance would be helpful.
Oh, Mr. Gardner, you had me at hello.Basically, come back from the dead and mentor me?Love,Nina
No one, not even the Prof cared for this book (apparently it was one of those "this book is required" mandates from the powers that be).The problem I had with this book, is the problem I have with John Gardner in general--He was the type of person who believes the world should be one way, and you should follow his law.
Had I been a young writer at the time, I may have decided not to be a writer based on the shitty attitude Gardner takes in the book.Granted, the information he gives is largely pretty decent as long as you can put up with his condescending attitude.
I almost stopped reading at the beginning, because of his liberal use of the word trash, applied to a lot of genre fiction and contemporary art and culture.
There are indeed some very useful and important points on craft to be found in this book, as well as good exercises at the end.
And yes, he's a lot more nuanced in his views, and actually pushes literary-focused authors to try and make their works enjoyable and interesting on more than just an intellectual level, so by the end even an aspiring genre fiction writer will respect his point of view.

Considered ideal for young writers, but its exercises are masochistic and often sheer folly. Gardner himself wrote "tedium is the worst pain" and trying to slog through Art of Fiction exercises would leave old Grendel raging at any number of additional Meadhalls. The text itself is good and you can find sound advice in it, but there are much better writing books out there. It might have paved the way, but so did 8 tracks.
What to say? Compulsory reading for anybody attempting to write. Gardner still rocks.
Duties, responsibilities and the author's obligation to tell the truth  One of the most interesting things about this book is how attitudes have changed in regards to what it means to be an author.
This is not your "How to Write a Novel for Dummies" and Gardner definitely would not have supported "everyone's right to publish" as proclaimed by many indie authors and the entire self-publishing industry.
The most important of which is telling the truth, and not just getting facts right, but making sure your fiction is believable and not perceived by the reader as a lie.
An academic approach to writing. Very helpful and solid.Definitely wordy, with information that could be distilled into a much shorter, much more to-the-point book, but I found little gems in this one that I haven't found in any others.Keep in mind that it came out in 1981, so some judgement calls by the author don't take into consideration recent development when it comes to 1) YA, 2) 1st limited POV, and 3) the internet.
Other books on writing are geared to early beginners or spend a lot of time on style (word choice , sentences, pargraphs).
Gardner makes unique observations about writing and give wise advice.
Some main takeaways - fiction is like a dream, you have to keep it going by adding in real details.
Fiction is composed in structural units, its not one big breath, its more like a series of excercise.
Most of the characters, dialogue and action is obligatory based on other events in the novel.
You can get away with almost anything with character and action.
Whether or not the bones are worth digging for is obviously each unique writer’s opinion.Here are some of my favorite takeaways from The Art of Fiction:On narrative...“Vividness urges that almost every occurrence of such phrases as ‘she noticed’ be suppressed in favor of direct presentation of the thing seen.”The writer...“It is the novelist’s reward for thinking carefully about reality, brooding on every image, every action, every word, both those things he planned from the beginning and those that crept in in the service of convincingness.”On style...“About style, the less said the better.
