https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279296.The_Crisis_of_Parliamentary_Democracy
It would be easy and intellectually lazy to dismiss this entirely as a predecessor to Nazi legal theory (to say nothing of his own association with that gang of thieves and murderers), but I am willing to admit that his criticisms of parliamentary democracy are not wholly without merit.In this short and terse little tract, he argues that a parliament system is no means of rational debate, as claimed by liberal theorists, but instead an appendage of other institutions, and that all decision-making is held in subcommittees or elsewhere.
Bu kitapta ezberimi bozan fikirler buldum. "Demokrasi diktatörlüğün zıddı değildir, demokratik diktatörlük de olabilir" gibi. Yine demokrasiyi "eşitlerin eşitliği" olduğunu söyleyen yazar özellikle Marksist diyalektiğe dair çok dikkat çekici tespitlerde bulunuyor. Okunmasını öneririm.

I will admit - I enjoy reading Schmitt. He hates everyone, and has an appropriately pessimistic view of political institutions and our calcified system of parliament.
Carl Schmitt- Kanunilik ve Mesruiyet çevirisinden sonra hukukçular çeviri yapmasın noktasına gelmiştim ki imdada Emre Zeybekoğlu'nun Carl Schmit- Parlamenter Demokrasinin Krizi çevirisi yetişti((: Kitap ince gibi görünsede epey bilgi barındırıyordu içinde; Hegel'den Marx'a, Sorel'den Proudhon'a kadar.. Yalnız Schmitt'in mevzuyu sosyalizmden alıp milliyetçiliğe bağlaması olağanüstüydü. Fikirlerine katılmasam da adam zeki yapacak bir şey yok((:
Introductions by McCarthy and Kennedy are very impressive. The work itself looks disjointed, but there is a logic behind the fact that it seems almost like two books forced into one. Plenty of quotable Schmitt lines (or paragraphs). The book is just a little impressionistic, however.
Brilliant analysis of the indecisive nature of legislative bodies.
An undoubtably very interesting historical document to understand the political crisis in 1920s Germany. Further, Carl Schmitt skilfully criticises the rationalism of 'western' liberal ideals and exposes the faults and inconsistencies of parliamentary democracy.
satır aralarında güzel konulara giren ancak yeterince tartışmadan bir başkasına geçen bir kitap. Konuyla ilgili araştırma yapanlar, yazara ilgi duyanlar açısından belki okunabilir ancak günümüz gündelik okuyucusuna, parlamenter sistem, açmazları ve alternatifleri için yeterince bilgi sunmaktan uzak.
A democracy demonstrates its political power by knowing how to refuse or keep at bay something foreign and unequal that threatens its homogeneity.It has the best preface I've ever read. Probably the only instance in my personal reading history where I encourage reading the preface and excluding the bulk of what follows.
Provocative line of argument that adds great insight into the distinction between conventional parliamentary practices and the seemingly-apparent democratic thought that underpins them in an attempt to question and answer what the people might really want. Nonetheless, a little tautological and text requires a more comprehensive range of evidence to back his assertions up.
Schmitt's always insightful but often provides terrible arguments. This book is no different, though he also provides some good arguments. One of the better takeaways is a decent understanding of how liberalism and democracy are incompatible.
Ok, I admit I didn't make it past the first chapter... But I enjoyed what I did read! If you have an interest in theorists like Agamben, it is good to start with Schmitt. After all, he was the one to coin the phrase "state of exception."
(It's hard to like books your professor reasonably shat on.)
bu metni ilk üniversiteye girdiğim yıl okuduydum. carl başkanın gazıyla dersten kaldım. hala aynı dersi alıyorum.
Schmitt explicates the fundamental philosophical conflicts between the theory of liberal parliamentary system and theoretical basis for democracy.
