https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18660325-the-first-book-of-adam-and-eve
Interesting in that this is a very early example of Christian fiction, perhaps as such it exposes some of the legends and ideas that early believers held to. But,I thought it was bleak and although I am sure that Adam and Eve had tremendous regret, I don't imagine they were as weak and helpless and ignorant as in this story.
InterestingIt is a laughable read. I see why it was not included in the Bible. Adam and Eve in this book reminds me of the children's book about the Stupids.
I love reading apocryphal literature, especially relating to creation, Cave of Treasures etc. and this was most enjoyable.
This is truly one of the forgotten books of EDEN. The life of Adam and Eve after they were expelled from Eden. Very nice and good. Even my christian friends doesn't know about these books.
An account of Adam and Eve.There were some things interesting in this story. I take it as a work of fiction since the Bible doesn't give us any details of the first family. Yet, this book brings up interesting points.
Good book, help to have an idea of the struggles Adan and Eve had on their days in the earth. Most take into account that is not really apocryphal.
I was raised on the King James, and in my heart it will always be my favorite with it's beautiful, poetic rendering of Psalms, Proverbs and the Songs of Soloman.
Who was right???I felt strange when I first started reading a copy of the NIV version of the Bible.
I felt like I had broken some rule, but then I realized that this wasn't true, that these were the same words only in our everyday language not the language used back in the days of King James.
This version of the Bible, however, is different.
I downloaded it free from Amazon and it's just a portion, not the entire Bible.
This is a fictional book of the days (and years) of Adam and Eve. It is considered, by some, as part of some lost books of scripture.
I do not hold to that platform, but I wanted to get some of this in my craw.
It is a highly mystical adventure.
I find myself constantly on eggshells while reading.
There are many instances of appearances of Satan, including deceptive conversations where he portrays himself as God. I don't remember how many volumes are supposed to be in this collection, but this one has me doing OK.
At this point, I will go back to some calm stuff, like the Book of Enoch.
It is a good narrative of what could have happened between Adam, Eve and God. What I learnt from the book is an alternative to the "against thy law, thee shall die" perspective, in which God is against the evil, yet sovereign in His plan for human race against sin and evil. It would be a good start for the imaginative ones to see God in a different light.
A really great (and super short!) read. Tells the story of Adam and Eve after they've been expelled from the Garden and why Satan messes with them. Very worthwhile to be preceded or followed by Paradise Lost and the Bible's Genesis.
Great readThis book is easy to understand & answered a lot of unanswered questions I had after reading the kjv bible.
