https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31068.Letters_to_Malcolm
Outstanding. Read another time in July of 1999. Great. Listened to audio in 2016. Still great. Listened to it again in July of 2017. And again in December of 2017. Really rich.
To believe that, whether He can grant them or not, God will listen to our prayers, will taken them into account.
Some day, please God, it will be."I must say my prayers today whether I feel devout or not; but that is only as I must learn my grammar if I am ever to read the poets."In the perfect and eternal world the Law will vanish, But the results of having lived faithfully under it will not." -on what our glorified bodies might be like (my favorite letter, the last):"I can now communicate to you the fields of my boyhood only imperfectly, by words.
CS Lewis' earlier books were very well written and (in my personal opinion) rather well argued.
This is not an "argued" book, though; the subtitle "reflections" is a more apt description.
That's not to say Lewis fails to present good arguments for his ideas, but the matter of the book is more of a 'search' than of a 'telling.' Especially towards the end, Lewis shows how much he has learned through his life on how to describe the beauty that we see beyond the physicality of the world.
"I am not saying to anyone in the world: 'Your explanation is wrong.' I am saying: ' Your explanation leaves the mystery for me still a mystery.'C.S. Lewis witty and candid ability to convey his thoughts never ceases to amaze me. This short but powerful read was no different.
The manuscript was completed in May of 1963, approximately six months before his death.The book's structure takes the form of fictional letters written by Lewis to his friend “Malcolm” in which they discusses matters of deep importance to the Christian life.
Both approaches are needed, and which one each Christian takes is between him and God.I really benefited both from the musings and studies of Scripture that CS Lewis engaged in here, as well as his humility in admitting he doesn't know everything, and that we must consider these issues carefully.
Not Lewis at his best.
The Discarded Image: An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature was also published after Lewis died, but (despite being non-fiction) is just short of amazing.The format is much like The Screwtape Letters: one side of an exchange of letters, this one supposedly with C.
S. Lewis with an old friend Malcolm.
Most, but not all, time references seem to date it to the last years of Lewis's life (the early 1060s).
It doesn't work as well as Screwtape, but it does work.Really more a 3.5.
Too bad Lewis didn't have a few more years to work on it .
Lewis's letters to a FICTIONAL friend are a delight to read. (I am amazed at how many reviewers think these are real letters written to a real person!) In these letters, Lewis addresses many different facets of prayer and our inhibitions when it comes to prayer. It is a very quotable book as well. I noticed quite a few recognizable quotes throughout.
I made a whole document of quotes I loved from this; here are just two:We may ignore, but we can nowhere evade, the presence of God. The world is crowded with Him. He walks everywhere incognito.
Still more, to remain awake.Surely a man of genius composing a poem or symphony must be less unlike God than a ruler?
But the man of genius has no mere by-products in his work.
If each note or word were conscious it would say, “The maker had me myself in view and chose for me, with the whole force of his genius, exactly the context I required.” And it would be right—provided it remembered that every other note or word could say no less.”
Such a believable mix of the convivial and the profound that I was surprised to find out the dialogue of letters was fictional. Oh well. Very good anyway. Now I don't have to sigh with the realization that none of my conversational correspondence reaches those levels.
See Lewis’ actual quote for more on page 119, for it is far better than that weak description.- One of the best and deservedly most famous quotes from the book comes on pages 119-123, where Lewis talks about not just thanking God for good/pleasures, but turning pleasures into “channels of adoration.” These pages are brilliant.
Oh that I would thank God more for the little goods and pleasures, but even more, oh that I would adore him more like this!
A few marked lines, starting at the beginning, so weighted toward the literal beginning of the book:Nothing makes an absent friend so present as a disagreement.The perfect church service would be one we were almost unaware of; our attention would have been on God.Any tendency to a passionate preference for one type of service must be regarded simply as temptation.
Like all afflictions, they are, if we can so take them, our share in the Passion of Christ.Then He turns to His friends.
They are Lewis' half of a conversation carried out over time with a friend generally on the topic of prayer.
I say generally because, as the letters meander through various specific aspects of prayer, things like free will, time, God's sovereignty, purgatory (which Lewis comes right out and says he believes in) and more are also addressed.
I found it humorous at one point how Lewis says he would never attempt to actually write a book on prayer and is grateful that the topic can be discussed with a friend where there is no fear of publication.
I love the way C. S. Lewis writes letters. That last word was unnecessary.
I have so many questions and confusions about prayer, with the result being that I don't feel very good at it and I hate volunteering/being volunteered to pray...Not that I think Lewis will clear up all of my misconceptions with this book, but I'd really love to get some clarification here.
As always, I look forward to hearing from Lewis.*EDIT*Admittedly, I was reading during a 7 hour long car ride, and I did wake up at 4 am...but I don't think I understood a lot of this.
A lot of thoughts on God's sovereignty v.
Lewis, I love you dearly, but I just can't bring myself to believe in Purgatory.
"Malcolm," is a literary device, a fictional friend with whom Lewis corresponds on theological and philosophical subjects.
In all, it is a pleasant read that takes the form of an exchange between old friends on issues of faith and theology.I really enjoyed this book.
Of the 22 letters (1 chapter each), the one that most reveals the process he is on as a theological thinker is letter '20.' In it Lewis claims that he both 'prays for the dead' and that he 'believes in Purgatory.' A hero to modern Evangelicals, most don't highlight these areas of his thinking.
It's not really theological in the sense of his other writings like Mere Christianity or the Four Loves.
And so, it is simply a collection of letters which Lewis writes to his friend Malcolm.
In this exchange of friendly letters, I often felt like a third wheel, trying to listen to that secret language that is only known by such an intimate relationship.Moreover, some of his conclusions are troubling, especially in regards to Purgatory and prayers for the dead.
Our Lord calls us to pray rather than to write about prayer.
Writing about prayer is like writing about art—it is possible but it’s not what the artist does.
He is only explaining what he tends to think regarding certain doctrines or aspects of the faith.
I actually found myself disagreeing with a multitude of his ideas, not in a "kill-the-heretic" kind of way, more as two friends simply enjoying theological debate, but those recognitions only strengthened my faith in turn.
Also, being on the far protestant side of Christianity I found it fascinating to read about the Church of England and some of her traditions or thoughts.
Hearing doctrines explained by Jack that Ive only heard from non-Catholics was quite a treat.
All in all, a thought provoking easy read.
The book is beautifully written.
However, in my opinion that makes the book more enlightening and enriching; to be able to understand and try to imagine or experience God from Lewis's own personal point of view.
C.S. Lewis is quite an extraordinary man, and through this book he gave us the chance to go through his mind and share his spiritual experience, his thoughts and flow of ideas always amaze me, and he puts them together elegantly and in very clear way.
His books are definitely the kind one could use to understand and deal with God beautifully.
I really enjoyed this series about prayer, written as if to Malcolm who is a fellow Christian.
Partway in, Malcolm's wife, Betty, begins passing along comments on their letters which also shapes the conversation.
Lewis uses the epistolary format really effectively to have a casual conversation about prayer.
I found it very effective, rather like listening to someone read a chain of emails (that's how casual it felt a lot of the time).
S. Lewis's thoughts on many aspects of prayer, both practical and higher level, which are good and hit the nail on the head.
Letters to Malcolm is my first encounter with Lewis' collected, personal correspondence. Part of the charm of Lewis' non-fiction writing is that both his genius and his friendliness are always present. In his academic essays his genius is in the center of the light, surrounded by his friendliness--he is a teacher who loves you. In these letters, Lewis' friendliness is at the center, surrounded by his genius--he is a lover who teaches you.
(See my reviews elsewhere for more detail and recommendations on this.) I bring this point up because I fear it is rather too symptomatic of the work and feel it is a lesser one for it.This was a very good effort by Lewis and had on occasion, the clarity of thought juxtaposed with heartfelt ruminations which one expects of this great man, yet ultimately fell short of what I would like to have seen.
Throughout this examination of the nature and practice of prayer, Lewis discusses the nature of God, the nature of humanity, and how we communicate and interact with God. He deals very helpfully with practical issues of prayer such as corporate and private prayer (and their intermingling in liturgy/church), distractions, inability to concentrate/focus, the sense of duty/drudgery of prayer vs.
Lewis also deals with some hefty theological issues, like predestination and freedom as they each relate to the act of prayer and God's response or foreordained action, prayer for the dead or to the saints, how much of prayer is God speaking in/through us and how much is we ourselves, purgatory and purification, resurrection and body/spirit, and much more.
If you're a fan of Lewis, this is a worthwhile book to pick up.
It suffers the deficiency of any book of letters as you only get half the conversation.
If we had Malcolm's letters in response, that would have been even better.
This is not a great book, it is not on the level of other Lewis books (my favorites are The Four Loves, The Great Divorce, A Grief Observed) but it is good.I am also struck by how ironic it is that Lewis is so loved by evangelicals in America.
Maybe his evangelical fans in America don't get past Narnia and Mere Christianity.

It astonishes me how well CSL accomplishes the fictitious epistolary exchange. This work has deeply insightful chapters and theological musings (see petitionary prayer), and some real stinkers (see praying to saints, purgatory...even with his qualifications from medieval purgatory). He always weaves the practical and truly personal into what can pass as technical. I also enjoyed his comments on the value of liturgical routine, and the warning that the most up-to-date is the fastest to become dated.
Some really good nuggets in this book!"The perfect church service would be one we were almost unaware of; our attention would have been on God.""We must lay before him what is in us, not what ought to be in us.""It seems to me that we often, almost sulkily, reject the good that God offers us because, at that moment, we expected some other good.
God shows us a new facet of the glory and we refuse to look at it because were still looking for the old one."I also really appreciate thinking about C.S. Lewis sitting and writing letters to his friend...
The trouble with reviewing Lewis's books, is how clearly and brilliantly he writes. When he gets things right, and he often does, he has you waving his flag and cheering. But when he gets things wrong, you want to reach through the pages and grab his lapel. There is so much insight in this collection of letters, I can't not recommend it. Just watch out for purgatory and other bones.
CS Lewis puts things in such simple, beautiful terms. At the same time, I’m not sure I comprehended half the book to be honest. What I did, 5 stars. Hopefully someday I will return and understand more.
Quite likely, C.S. Lewis' best written work.
I liked the format of letters to a friend. It was more conversational than some of Lewis’ other works which I enjoyed
