https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/864330.Gods_and_Myths_of_Northern_Europe
This provides an okay overview of Norse mythology. It jumps around a bit, though this is more a product of the author trying to pull together fragmented sources. Not a completely satisfying read, but not a bad first look at the names/habits/symbols in the Norse myths. Also, there is a pretty gruesome description of the Valkyries weaving with intestines, which is always a good time.
I originally read this book as one of the required reading texts for a "Germanic Folklore" seminar class as a grad student, twenty years ago. Especially for neophytes, it provides an excellent overview of the mythologies of northern Europe, from the Anglo-Saxon versions to that of their more familiar Norse cousins.
In Ellis Davidson’s reading, the war that the Eddas describe between the two races of gods – the Aesir, like Odin and Thor, and the Vanir, like Freyr and Freyja – replicates a familiar mythographic pattern of conflict between sky gods of unearthly power on the one hand, and fertility gods of earthly renewal on the other.That mythographic emphasis is also evident in the conscientious manner in which Ellis Davidson seeks out evidence, both textual and artifact-based, of the influence of northern mythology in the culture and landscape of Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, England, and Ireland.
Another academic work on the Norse gods (not a storybook retelling at all), this concentrates more on the Northern people than Dumézil's work, surveying the practical meaning and historical base for many of the stories and concepts. Intriguing passages included the similarities between Freyja and Frigg; the relation between the powers of the volva or Odin's acquisition of knowledge and shamanism; and the reasons for Christianity's power over the heathens of the late period. A great archeologically-based examination of myth.
Better than I thought it would be! Davidson is more thoughtful and devotional than a mere academic and portrays the gods and their worship poetically. Disappointed with the unsatisfying colonialist ending on the passing of the old gods.
this book feels it's age. well researched for a 1960's publication, but so, so, so academic I almost quit.
It took me a while to get through this book, because it kept inspiring me to stop and look things up for more information. That's not a bad thing.This shouldn't be your first book on the Norse myths; the author assumes some prior knowledge. She does give moderate review, but it's rather offhand. Read something like The Norse Myths by Kevin Crossley-Holland first.
This is mainly a survey of what we know about the Norse/German/Old English gods and goddesses.
(Not much.) Davidson looks at the archaeological remains as well as the old sagas and Eddas, concentrating mainly on Snorri's "Prose Edda" to see what has survived about Scandinavian mythology.
What emerges is fascinating, and ultimately frustratingly sad.
Fascinating because it's a glimpse at a mythology that isn't well known thanks to the Renaissance's obsession for Greco-Roman mythology and frustrating because there's not much chance that the real religious beliefs will ever emerge from the thick veneer of Christianity and bowdlerization that the centuries have hidden them under.
This book was excellent insight into the world of Norse Mythology which I find extremely interesting. It talked about the myths and then went on to explain how they related to the people who wrote them. Then, later she talked about how both Christianity influenced Norse mythology and how the Norse religion influenced Christianity. It makes me want to dive deeper into the realm of pre-Christian religions, specifically in Northern Europe. Would recommend to anyone with an interest in mythology or older world religions.
As others have mentioned this book bounces around a lot covering the subject and is an academic treatment of Northern European myths, gods and their cults rather than a narrative re-telling of the myths (compare with Robert Graves' Greek Mythology which is more the latter). You do get the gist of the main themes though along with the common strands across the different regions.What I did find interesting was how close Marvel comics and the recent films have stayed to many of the core elements of the actual Norse myths.
I had to skim through most of the book, but it's interesting and easy to follow. It's not a mythology book only, but it also presents the life of various groups of people, their culture and belief system. Not the info I need for my thesis, hence the skimming. I think it's also somewhat outdated by now. Nevertheless, it's a good start for mythology enthusiasts.
Remarkably thorough overview of the gods of Norse mythology from the Eddas and other related texts. A bit biased when it comes to Norse paganism's (which he insists on calling "heathenism") disappearance, implying it's because Christianity is inherently better and truer than paganism.
Fabulous dive into the mythology and religions of the North. I found the path these beliefs took from the Near East to my ancestors fascinating. Davidson does a good, if frustrating, job of staying on topic. I plan on reading more of her to get the full picture.
There were some interesting discussions, but I think the book does suffer from attempting to carve out realms for the various Norse gods in a way that would allow easy cross-referencing with other IE groups.
This may have been less of an issue if more discussion where accompanied with each of the arguments, but it felt like the process of the book was "contention," paragraph on why this might be including a few citations to sources that may support the contention, mention that contention may not be accurate, move on.
This is a very engaging read! The author manages to juggle the effort of covering the subject of the gods and religions of this time and region with great detail while remaining entertaining. If you're at all interested in Norse and Germanic mythology, religion and history, this is a must read! It's a very thoughtful intriguing study and it's got me going to a lot of the source texts it references.
This book lived to my expectations and more. It is well-written and the information was well-ordered. Well, I did skip thumb through few pages, but the things I sought this book for were quite satisfying and they answered basic questions I had about Norse Mythology, like the origin of Gods, their traits, and the abiding wrangle between Christianity and Heathenism, like Thor and Jesus Christ.
Fascinating!
The Prose Edda compiles many of the myths Snorri was able to gather from the northern Europe in his time, around the 1220s A.D./C.E. Ellis Davidson’s book is therefore a great resource for succinctness, arrangement of information thematically, and summary of the hearts of the myths.
Especially if you are already familiar with the myths themselves, then Ellis Davidson’s book makes for a great exploration into the deeper history and potential meanings behind the myths and the interaction and the mutual influences of myth and history in northern Europe.
– page 219-220 – WORD.Total reading time for this book: 356 minutes
The values for which he stood—law and order in the free community, the keeping of faith between men—were those by which the Vikings set great store, even though they themselves often appeared to the outside world as the forces of destruction unleashed.
Above all, the northern myths are clear-sighted in their recognition of the reality of the forces of destruction.
The fight in a narrow place against odds, which has been called the ideal of heroic literature in the north, is given cosmic stature in the conception of Ragnarok, the doom of the gods, when Odin and his peers go down fighting against monsters and the unleashed fury of the elements.
As a result, Gods and Myths of Northern Europe is easier to get into than Lindow’s book; it’s smoother, provides more context, and approached purely as a piece of non-fiction, is more enjoyable.Lindow and Davidson both double back to the same source material, and both books have a high degree of credibility.
Additionally, Davidson does a fine job of sketching the cults of the Norse pantheon, and includes some fascinating commentary about the arrival of Christianity, and why the loose, more individualistic religion of the Scandinavians had no defense against it.Despite being easier to access, I would still file Gods and Myths of Northern Europe under the heading of scholarly non-fiction, as it’s several steps away from the tales of gods and magic that initially piqued my interest in Norse mythology as a teen.
A very interesting and scholarly look at the myths and deities of northern Europe - both the continental, Anglo-Saxons and Norse (aka Vikings).
Readers should have some familiarity with Norse myths before tackling this book - the author discusses the myths of northern Europe, she doesn't deal with the stories in full detail as is provided in books like The Penguin Book of Norse Myths: Gods of the Vikings or similar.The many scholarly books written by Claude Lecouteux, as well as, Pagan Magic of the Northern Tradition: Customs, Rites, and Ceremonies may be of interest to readers who enjoyed this book.
This book focuses on the cultural context of what we know about the Old Norse myths, mainly, it stresses the point that the vast majority of what we know comes from Snorri Sturluson's Eddas which were written in the early 13th century, quite some time after the old northern religions have faded.
I now have a greater appreciation for the people who worshiped the old gods, and a better understanding of the cultural context.Hilda Ellis Davidson made a tremendous effort in creating a unifying narrative for all the different sources of myths; one such source was the Heimskringla: or, The Lives of the Norse Kings, which I now want to read with even more anticipation than before.
After reading "Myths of the Norsemen" by Helene Guerber, I was severely disappointed in the book.
Davidson goes a step further and tries to illuminate Norse/Germanic beliefs based on myths of deities and their culture during per-Christian times and how it has affected recent history (such as the German swastika possibly linking to Thor's hammer as a way for Hitler to resurrect Germanic beliefs).
I went into this book, expecting something to recount myths but was still happy with the reflection of what Germanic people may have believed during the height of belief deities such as Odin, Thor, Frigg, etc.
This is one of the most accessible volumes I've found on Norse mythology, especially as it also includes crossovers from Germanic mythology, references to Roman/Greek influences and chronicles, eastern traditions and whether or not there were any Celtic influences at work (rare but in a few places in the book).The division of the book into separate chapters based on the organization of the gods/mythology is sensible and makes reading easier.
I especially liked the discussion of both major and minor deities and also contrasts with some of the poets (Snorri vs.

What did the Vikings really think of their gods?
Why was Odin, their chief god, not to be trusted?
Who did the German tribes believe brought them victory in battle?
Excellent guide to the pagan beliefs of the germanic peoples from Scandinavia to England which will provide the best answers for these questions you are likely to find.
Scholarly, but easy to digest, this book is just as much for the general interested reader as the academic.
Written some decades ago now, there are newer books with information from later archeology but this is an ideal place to start.
Great book. For the most part very objective. Although a lot is lost in translation when an objective author writes an objective study of any religion it can also be a useful viewpoint in an age when most books you will find with any sort of pagan religion as their focus are going to be a hodge podge of new agey drivel. Very well written and organized I thought with even a few deep thoughts and considerations sprinkled about though the book as a whole was refreshingly academic. I plan to read more by this author in the future.
This isn't just a simple account of all the different myths (the stories themselves.) This is a brief but fascinating analysis which compares different aspects of the Gods from the many accounts taken, and poems found and not found.
It takes an interesting and objective view point and is clear and easy to read, while somehow fitting in some of the best stories amid the discussion of what the various figures meant at different times, and how they portrayed, and how much or little we know, and how it is disputed.
I'll definitely come back and read bits again, I loved it.
This book is a very brief very broad overview over several themes found in the Northern myths.
If you've read the myths then there is no point reading this book, unless you have had some trouble with them.
This book might help clarify a few things or help come up with some essay topics.
There are a few comparative pieces between Snorri's work and Saxo's which I found quite interesting.
If you're just an interested reader, this book doesn't have much value.
If you're a researcher or scholar this book might be a good jumping off point, but has little usefulness for in depth study.
A well put together discussion of the pagan myths of pre-christian northern europe. Drawing from the Prose Edda, Poetic Edda and a multitude of other primary sources Davidson is able to make the Norse psyche both visible and accessible. After reading this I find I better understand the Norse culture and worldview as it truly was, as opposed to the nearly cartoon-like nature in which it portrayed in most modern contexts.
