https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187060.Auntie_Mame
BR with my girl Mishy and my boy Giulio!!!
WOOT!!!This book is part of Giulio's continuing efforts to give Mishy and I a little culture so we don't embarrass him at parties.
This book is hilarious!The plot concerns a boy who is orphaned and sent into the questionable care of his Auntie Mame.
Mame is probably my favorite character in any book EVER.
Mame takes her young charge firmly in hand by deserting all forms of traditional parenting and teaching him how to live in style.
He has the usual ups and downs of growing upbut Mame teaches him how to do it with flair!
I love love loved this book then, and on re-reading it now 37 years later, I love it just as much...maybe more, I know more of how adult Mame felt being handed a kid to raise than I did at fourteen.It's been perfect for me to read in the Auntie-adjustment period, because it's not a novel, it's a series of interconnected short stories that share a frame.
Dennis hated confromity, he loathed insincerity, he was revolted by Babbittry, and he skewered his targets on brightly colored little cocktail toothpicks with the hula-themed hors d'ouevre.Mame and Patrick are limousine liberals, rich people who have it in themselves to understand and work to ameliorate the burdens of those not like themsleves.
In many ways, I think Teddy Kennedy would identify with Mame and Patrick.
Reto 43: con un familiar en el titulo.Cuando Patrick Dennis queda huérfano a los 10 años quedando a cargo -excepto financieramente- de la hermana de su padre, la tía Mame en Nueva York pasa de un ambiente conservador a uno muy diferente. Las ocurrencias de su tía y toda la gama de gente con que ella se rodea y la vida de una socialité de los años antes y pos-depresión son relatados desde el punto de vista de Patrick mientras crece.  El libro esta lleno de palabras de doble sentido y comentarios
Las situaciones van desde la sutileza y la sátira a un tipo de comedia de errores y física o slapstick como le llaman.La película inspirada por el libro es un clásico de los buenos, la novela deja ver algo más la complejidad del personaje de Mame que comete muchos errores , pero que sufre tragedias y donde se acentua su extrema volatibilidad y su exageración creo como un impulso o hasta una máscara.
He was father, brother, son, Santa Claus, and lover.Patrick de niño es divertido verle dejarse llevar por las escapadas de su tía , pero mientras se vuelve adulto su crítica comienza a volverse algo pesado y hasta poco compasivo mientras sus comentarios de mujeres molestos .
Ricca, svampita, eccentrica e melodrammatica...stravagante, fantastica, spumeggiante, adorabile Zia Meme! Sempre nei guai e sempre vittoriosa. Le avventure della ricca-poi povera- poi di nuovo ricca zia coinvolgono il lettore e il giovane nipote. Il lettore si chiederà come faccia la signora ad uscire sempre indenne dai numerosi guai...ma la risposta è semplice! Ci riesce perché è Zia Meme!
Ero indecisa tra 4,5 e 5 stelline, ma alla fine ho optato per le cinque stelline perché a Natale siamo tutti più buoni e perché mi è piaciuto tanto e non ricordo un momento durante la lettura in cui mi sono annoiata.Zia Mame era uno dei romanzi che occupava la mia wishlist infinita, ma in una posizione non abbastanza alta da spingermi a comprarlo rispetto ad altri.
Ovviamente tutti sono dispiaciuti per la sorte del piccolo Patrick perché tutti conoscono Mame Dennis e tutti la reputano un personaggio scomodo, una mina vagante non adatta a crescere un bambino.Zia Mame è sicuramente un personaggio sopra le righe, la zia che, non so gli altri, ma io vorrei, perché è una continua fonte di avventure e con lei non ti annoieresti mai.
should land square in my lap on the "late late movie," but Mame Dennis herself wrapped in the incomparable roz russell...
the next morning I pounced on my mum first thing and told her I had a new favorite movie...
She told me if I liked that I would love the book...
So a muli-decade love affair with "Mame" and I had never read the book...
I was shocked at how true both movies were to the book...
It is a book for the ages and one that should NEVER be out of print again!!
Read this book!
I've always been a fan of the Rosalind Russell film, Auntie Mame, and after recently watching the dreadfully sub-par Mame, starring Lucille Ball, I decided it was finally time to read the book and discover madcap Mame's true story for myself.
Each episode is "framed" by Patrick reading about the "Unforgettable Character" in the Digest, prompting him to compare the Digest's Unforgettable Character with his own Auntie Mame.
The heart of the story is Patrick's relationship with Mame - as he gets older he may get a little more frustrated with Mame's unconventional ways, but underneath it all the one thing that never changes is their love for each other.
Quando cominciamo a leggere il libro scopriamo che il bambino rimasto orfano e per questo affidato ad una zia tanto eccentrica quanto dolce e, a suo modo, affettuosa, si chiama proprio Patrick Dennis e per tutta la durata della storia siamo dunque portati a credere che quella in cui ci siamo immersi sia una storia vera, la storia dell'autore stesso.
Oserei definire lo stile di questo libro "televisivo" poichè questi personaggi, a cominciare dai due protagonisti, sono estremamente teatrali, perfettamente calati nel ruolo di attori di questa indimenticabile vicenda, tanto che dal libro si potrebbe secondo me trarre benissimo una serie tv che sicuramente tutti noi amanti di Zia Mame non ci perderemmo per nulla al mondo!
Strangley enough after reading this book I want to go through ALL my other ratings and lower them by one!
It reminded me of all these current chic-lit books out there that their style of writing and storytelling are what people are calling fresh and invigorating.
I would still classify it as a chick-lit or beach/vacation read due to the main subject matter is his Auntie Mame and her raising ofhim and all her episodes.
I will definitely be reading more by him.
I had no idea that several plays and movies were based on his books, including this one!
Patrick si ritrova sballottato a New York da zia Mame, una zia eccentrica, particolare, che indossa abiti strani e che cambierà la vita di Patrick, nel bene e nel male.
Mi sono divertita tantissimo a leggere le storie di questa zia che trascina il nipote a feste, balli, ingressi in società.
Una zia particolare, invadente, una zia che mi sono accorta di amare, man mano che proseguivo nella lettura.
Una zia, un personaggio creato da Dennis che ci invita a eplorare il nostro lato più giocoso e divertente, insegnandoci a non prenderci troppo sul serio e a prendere la vita con allegria e brio.
یک داستان سریالی از در مورد یک عمه خاص، پر شر و شور، رویاپرداز، پرانرژی که همیشه دنبال تجربه کردن چیزهای جدیده.داستان از زبان پاتریک که برادرزاده عمه میم است روایت میشه پدر پاتریک از دنیا میره و وصیت میکنه که سرپرستی بچه به خواهرش میم سپرده بشهو این شروع ماجراهای داستانهماجراها نسبتا جذاب (و البته قابل حدس زدن) هستند و از طنز شیرین خوبی برای روایت داستان استفاده کردهیه جاهایی در اواخر شاید دیگه بیش از حد ماجرا تکراری و قابل حدس زدن میشه که یه خرده حوصله ام رو سر برد
And I found the Reader's Digest device to be a really artificial organization of these stories.
Patrick was no great and lovable character either; I thought he was kind of a bore.I'd like to see the movie based on this book, and perhaps I would find that more amusing.
However, I maintain that I always have difficulty, in any genre, enjoying a book in which I don't like the protagonist.
Whether you think Auntie Mame is the true protagonist or her nephew, Patrick, I just didn't connect with either.And as for all the comments about how timeless this tale is, and how ahead of her time Auntie Mame was, I disagree.
There is also a lot that had been left out of the original movie and it was fantastic reading those parts.
However, I can safely assure you that the portrayal of Connecticut back in that time period and even now is/was spot on.The film adaption didn't stray too far from the book, and I am very glad I took the time to immerse myself in Mame and Dennis' life and times.Go, read the book, watch the movie and let me know which you found to like better.
5 INCREDIBLE STARSAttenzione attenzione: abbiamo trovato un nuovo preferito! *___*Ho ADORATO e DIVORATO questo romanzo. E' divertente senza essere stupido, anzi è molto sagace in alcuni punti. Che dire della zia più pazza e comica del mondo letterario? Che è un vero spasso. Mame e Patrick sono diventati di diritto uno dei più bei nuclei familiari che abbia mai letto. Le vicende narrate in prima persona da Pat sono tutte oltremodo fantastiche ed irriverenti.Consigliatissimo per ridere, sorridere e anche riflettere...senza prendersi troppo sul serio :)ps: VOGLIO IL SEQUEL. E anche il film! *-*
Absolutely loved it! An easy and enjoyable read. I also felt really connected to some parts of the book. خيلى كتاب جالبى بود. آسان خوان بود، پراز لغات و اصطلاحات آشنا و غريبه، با انواع تم ها: ژاپنى، نيويوركى، اروپايى، هندى و غيره و غيره. انقدر عمه ميم درماجراجويى هاش تنوع طلب بود كه بعد از هر فصل كتاب احساس ميكردم داستان جديدى رو دارم با شخصيتهاى جديدى ميخونم. جذاب بود.
Auntie Mame sure is one quirky, crazy character, but I loved her and this book! I love how light and easy to read this book is, and I have already ordered Around the World with Auntie Mame. Very pleasurable read.
Era un libro de esos que te llaman la atención, que tienes ganas de leer porque sabes que te vas a divertir pero nunca ves el momento, hasta que llega, bien por un reto, bien porque te apetece.
Y el sobrino Patrick, bueno, mejor no os digo nada de él, para que os quede la curiosidad y lo leáis.
Lo he pasado muy bien leyendo sus peripecias, no es un libro que te haga cuestionarte la vida ni nada por el estilo pero entretiene bastante y ese, creo, es su objetivo, estupendo para leerlo mezclando o después de lecturas más densas.
…riuscì a sembrare una donna cui si poteva affidare un bambino a occhi chiusiQuando ci si avvicina a
I've been an AUNTIE MAME fan for over 40 years, since I first encountered the Roz Russell film accidentally one afternoon.
Both serendipitous events signaled the introduction of a character who has remained with me ever since in her various incarnations, a love affair that continues to this day - my living room walls are covered with AUNTIE MAME-orabilia!Although I often pick up the original novel to read a few random pages or scenes here and there (you'll find copies of it throughout my house), I give the novel a full re-reading every five years or so.
Es una mujer loca, bastante inconsciente, hiperactiva, que puede llegar a sacarte de quicio...
La novela se narra a través de capítulos que cuentan distintas historias en las que se ve envuelta la tía Mame (y, de paso, nuestro protagonista/narrador), como si de relatos cortos se tratara, que tienen como nexo de unión su sucesión cronológica.Es una novela divertidísima, con momentos sublimes, y que mezcla, además, varios tipos de humor: desde el más intelectual o de "humor culto", al humor loco y caótico, pasando por los sketches de vodevil.
Eccentrica, irriverente, completamente pazza. Ma sotto sotto tutti vorremmo una zia così. Divertentissimo e un'ottima lettura da fare sotto l'ombrellone, l'ho apprezzato più di quanto non mi aspettassi!
Even given the wonderful performance in the musical, Mame, given by Angela Lansbury, Rosalind Russell is the visual personification of Mame Dennis that leaps to mind every time I re-read the book.I was fifteen, when I first read/saw it.
I am not overstating that it was a spiritual revelation and comfort to a self-identity that was emerging as “queer.” To this day, I have no real idea as to why it was a "revelation".Maybe it was the larger than life personality of Mame Dennis, as painted by the author.
Which led me to believe I would like Mame's character and her interaction with her newphew Patrick that much more, since I loved how it worked character wise in Breakfast at Tiffany's.
Sadly, I did not.It was a relatively quick read, but I did find myself in parts checking to see how many pages I had left 'til I was finished (much like you would at a movie, when it drags and you just want it to end).
I think there were parts that the author could have left out that did nothing for the character development.
Since it was reprinted, the topic of Mame Dennis has crept into a lot of online reviews and conversations over cocktails.
I recently got into a screaming match on an airplane over the topic of Mame's relevance today.
Even some of the reviews on this site are less than flattering and I want to answer them all by suggesting that the authors (and readers) read the book again.Mame is an icon, even today.
She rallies behind a pregnant Agnes Gooch and looks after her nephew (and a whole lot of other children during the war) as few other figures might have; dominating four decades as no other could have, she knows the benefit of a good drink and the power of humour in bleak times.

Sono stata eroica. Mi merito quanto meno una standing ovation perché sono riuscita ad arrivare alla fine. A mai più rivederci, my darling Edward Everett Tanner III. Lei ed io non siamo proprio fatti per intenderci. Senza rancore, of course.
I read this for book group and ended up enjoying it more than I expected to. We should all have an Auntie Mame in our families.
This was a fun read. It was very predictable, but that's ok because Dennis entertained me anyway. I can't say I wish I had an Auntie Mame, but I kind of wish my children had one!
Loved it. Want to read everything by Patrick Dennis.
Una lectura que he descubierto gracias a reseñas leídas y que he encontrado muy divertida...
Su sobrino, Patrick, el que intenta, desde pequeño, marcarle unos límites y poner un poco de cordura en su vida.En este libro, conocemos a Mame y Patrick; desde el momento en que es adoptado con 10 años a mediados de los felices 20, hasta que termina la universidad.
Narrado en primera persona, por parte de Patrick, pasa de una situación inverosimíl y rocambolesca a otra; y siempre, iniciadas por Mame, con intención de hacer algo bueno.Muy recomendable.
