https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827497.One_Flew_Over_the_Cuckoo_s_Nest
Incredible:) It is one of those stories which remain memorably alive. The movie is as hilarious as the story itself.
The book, One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest by Ken Kesey was a powerful and thought provoking story about the conditions and lives of a group of men in a mental asylum.
When Randle McMurphy, a somewhat cocky and colorful man transfers to the hospital, he begins to bring back power to the men once controlled by Ratched.
One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest introduces deep thoughts about the true definition of insanity, and the sexuality of differing characters.
I thoroughly enjoyed the story, One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest.
I don’t normally read too many books.
Overall, I would give the book five stars.
Honestly, I haven't read a more powerful novel in a long time...
I talked with a friend about this, who claimed that McMurphy was fully right in his actions since they were empowering to the other patients.
Dale Harding didn't seem to be the same person at the beginning and at the end, and I don't think it was mere empowerment.
Is that empowerment?Okay, let me talk about character.
The personalities of the patients were entirely accurate, and such a great addition to the feel of the play.
Anyway, overall, this is such a well-written production and a great use of an afternoon.

In a mental institute, many men are imprisoned there.
Mcmurphy tried to cure everyone in the institute, and he successfully cured their introvert problems and made a presumed deaf and dumb Indian talk.
He did so by extending TV rights, and he hosts a liquor party in the institute.
He even experienced shock therapy and even worse punishments after those several attempts to cure the other people's problems.
You would like this book if you enjoy reading about conversations instead of the actual storyline.
Personally, I did not enjoy reading this book because the story progression was a bit slow, and the story did not fit my taste.
The story sticks from the movie I watched so many years ago and yet of course the book is much more memorable. The characters come to life as the pages turn and I am able to picture the scenes so much more clearly with insight into the characters’ minds. The horrors of the time depicted in the Nurse’s actions and the Indian’s hallucinations in a mental asylum. He is the only one to escape the Institution which in the end is victorious in shutting down the vicarious main character Murphy.
It takes considerable chutzpah to tackle a pretty excellent novel and try to pare it down into a three-act play; it takes some serious skill to make it a compelling drama that loses very little of the original text in terms of pathos and power. I'm going to have to re-visit Kesey's novel now and see how much, if anything, was lost in this translation.
This became a classic the moment it hit the bookshop shelves. It was a hit film the minute it was released. Everyone knows what you mean the minute you refer to someone as "Nurse Ratchet". I love this book. This is Breakfast at Tiffany's in an insane asylum. It's Auntie Mame in a straight jacket. What's not to love?
September 25-I am reading the play at the same time as the novel to prep for a production in the next few weeks.
I am at about the same place in the book and in the play version.
What I love about the play adaptation is that it makes it very clear how powerful one woman can be...to the point that it takes a group of men to try to overpower her.
What happens is that they don't like it and therefore act out.What brilliant and wonderful writing.Just as the novel, it left me speechless at the end.
I look forward towards working on this wonderful play.
This is a phenomenal book, but sad at the same time, I also watched the film, although the film was good there's nothing that can compare to the book. In the mental hospital it appeared from day one that they just wanted to control the patients. Brilliant, brilliant
Incredible.
Scary Provoking!!
A masterpiece!
Read the book. Saw the movie.This is one of the few that I liked the movie better.
Amazing and moving.
I liked it.
I really liked the book and the movie and while the play is great too, the ending isn't as satisfying.
Great play, but it would probably take too much editing for it to be high school appropriate.
I have never hated a nurse so much... This book is SO much better than the movie. I understood the characters much better by reading. What a story! What an ending! Oh my gosh.
The Narrator ,a son of an Indian chief named Bromden, is locked up in this mental hospital with a woman named Ratched,or big nurse. A new patient comes into the ward and he is referred to as McMurphy. Mcmurphy spends his time harassing Big nurse and starts to show the inmates independence. The author Ken Kesey has great examples about how the patients are trapped in there own mind with the allusion of the fog machine and the growing movement that McMurphy starts. He also shows the changes in th
The author Ken Kesey has great examples about how the patients are trapped in there own mind with the allusion of the fog machine and the growing movement that McMurphy starts.
The fog machine was a key point in the book that showed how the patients went from that was a place of comfort to coming out were they became more independent.
Then finally the end when Bromden kills Mcmurphy and runs away, which shows just how much the narrator of this book went from no control to complete independence.
This book clearly demonstrates on what insanity is by showing the difference between the mental men and the nurse Ratched in the mental asylum, and on how they act and treat other people.
Also demonstrates reality by focusing and exposing every detail on the mental men and the nurse in the mental asylum instead of what they expose in the fiction books or movies Something about this book is that it caught me into it and made me read more.
This book show true ideas on insanity and how these insane men were treated he actually broke me down a little.
The plot line is an effective condensation of the novel, and it establishes The Chief, R.P. McMurphy, Billy Bibbit, Scanlon, Harding, Cheswick et.
The original plot of the novel is well rendered, and I think this would be a great play to see enacted on stage but only if great care were taken to preserve the deeply-rooted pathos of the characters, the devastating effects of mental illness and its treatment, especially in the 1950s, and the abuse of power that often terrorizes the helpless and the ignorant, not to mention the sadism that correlates to that unchecked and absolute power.
All of the male patients are under the control of the tyrant nurse Ratched.
Randle Mcmurphy is a particular character that plants humor and hope for those inside the hospital.
He acts and rebels against nurse Ratched to show his fellow mates that there is more.
Because of his acts, he gets into trouble.
In the end, after taking his friends through a journey they would never had imagine, McMurphy ended up vegetable because of his last lobotomy Ratched did to him.
Because of this, many left and transfer from that hospital, and one of Randle's friend, killed him to eliminate the only evidence and form of power Ratched had left.
Randle McMurphy is the novel’s protagonist.
He arrives to a orderly mental asylum and rebels against dominating establishment that the insane patients face.
He is most likely only pretending to be insane, as he believes that the asylum would be better than working all day on a farm.
Towards the end of the book, he is compared to christ, sacrificing his freedom and privileges for the benefit of the other patients.
He represents the spirit of freedom and can prove that one person has the power to change other people’s lives for the better.
Our protagonist is committed to a mental institution.
He meets other patients who are needy but have in actuality committed themselves to the hospital.
For a short time others enjoy his actions and use him as a model for leadership.The doctor, head nurse and staff then use Machiavellian methods and perform a lobotomy on our protagonist.
Order is restored in the eyes of most characters until the end when the quietly stern, sober and caring Native American patient suffocates the protagonist and then escapes.Besides making me wary of motives in those who are trusted with authority, this story just plain frightened me.

I was actually in this play right after college.
I had read this book in college so when I got the opportunity to be in the play it was really an honor for me.
I had a small part (Candy Starr), but it was the first play I did where I felt I was part of something special.
Anyway, the play is not as good as the book - there's a lot that can't be translated from the page to the stage (or film for that matter) plus you have the limits of actually doing it on stage.
This is a fantastic adaptation of Ken Kesey's classic novel and remains edgy, charming and overall, quite moving. It was interesting to experience this as a play, as I read the book back in high school. Of course, McMurphy is still a wild, charming rebel, and the authority of Nurse Ratched still feels overbearing and bureaucratic. Looking at this story again and how the characters connect reveals a bigger theme of friendship. Several scenes with McMurphy and Chief Bromden are so touching and powerful.
This book is a masterpiece of desperation. It flows from cover to cover. Everyone can relate with the great McMurphy as he tries to figure out oppressive authority. He wages war, not just against Nurse Ratched, but against all of societies ideas that have kept these people from venturing out. The people society deems as insane are really those who are sane who understand the saneness of society. Sit back and be prepared to laugh and cry and dig every line as McMurphy throws his big shovel into the very dirt society has tossed over these characters.
