https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289747.The_Princess
I didn't know this was written by a Christian author before I started reading. At first when I read how much religion was incorporated in the story I was hesitant to continue, but I enjoyed reading the silent prayers the characters said and really there was no difference between the religious beliefs of these characters and my own. But, I must say that my favorite part of this book was the love story. (...Sigh...) Watching the love of this couple grow from a beginning of fear and dislike to the deepest of love and commitment was heart warming.
Well one thing’s for sure, they may be prince and princess but this book is surely not regency.
This is more like Princess Diaries, except that it’s more religious.
I feel like I’m reading from a Bible story.
Shelby blushes at ridiculous things!
She’s angry at Nickolai, sometimes scared but I don’t get why!
Or say “thank you” EVERY FREAKING SECOND?!“May I hold you?” “If I can hold you back” OH MY GOD ARE YOU FOR REAL WHAT THE HELL IS THIS OH MY GOD ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME?!I have never rolled my eyes so much while reading.
Lori Wick has this knack for writing love stories that make me wonder what world she's living on, cuz it isn't planet earth.
Now on the bright side her stories are always clean, and the characters have great value systems and what have you, but I have read much better from her than this.
Lori Wick writes 'brain candy' it takes no effort to read it and I'm sure she pumps out the stories quickly, I kind of wish she'd take more time.
However I still read the whole thing, so that either tells you that there is something there after all, or that part of me is girly enough to devour a love story.
In most fairy tales, when the Princess and Prince get married, the story ends “happily ever after”. In Lori Wick’s “The Princess,” however, the vows are only the beginning. Although this is the story of an arranged marriage, I found its underlying message quite relevant to most people today, and I think it may especially help those who are struggling or considering divorce. Prince Nikolai of Pendaran lost his wife before the novel begins, but she is quite present, especially in the early pages.
Although this is the story of an arranged marriage, I found its underlying message quite relevant to most people today, and I think it may especially help those who are struggling or considering divorce.
Prince Nikolai of Pendaran lost his wife before the novel begins, but she is quite present, especially in the early pages.
Nikolai especially struggles to draw closer to his wife, but after he has rebuffed her, Shelby also finds herself ambivalent and seeks to overcome the pain her husband unwittingly causes her.
I didn't enjoy this book. There was hardly any story to it and the romance felt weird; they didn't even kiss before the night they finally decided to consummate their marriage. It was a butterfly killer.I enjoy Christian fiction, but this was WAY over the top with preaching. I like for the characters to show us their faith through their choices and actions. This was more TELL, TELL, TELL than show.Sorry Melissa! You're still my book whisperer.
Her mistakes stem from a need to help people that ranges from simple generosity to actually endangering her life and health.
After the discussion of "the tradition" (requiring the prince to marry by age 26) the book might as well be about normal, everyday people -- it might have been better that way.
The royal family is seen moving about as easily as normal people do, as if there would be no issue when the heir to the kingdom suddenly stops by a small family restaurant.
Even the tradition falls by the wayside, no one seeming to care that its purpose probably had something to do with producing an heir.
This is absolutely my most favorite book by Lori Wick!
I find myself re-reading the book a lot.
It's just a great love story!n the Land of Pendaran, Shelby Parker lives a humble but good life.
Her special qualities are eventually noticed by the king and queen of the House of Markham, who seek a new wife for their widowed son, Prince Nikolai.To uphold the tradition of their country, Shelby and Nikolai agree to an arranged marriage.
But while Nikolai is a perfect gentleman in public, he remains distant at home, leaving Shelby to wonder what is in his heart.
Will the prince ever love her as he did his first wife?
I like to know little to nothing about books before I read them, sometimes this can get me in trouble. In the case with this book, I must have had different expectations, so perhaps I'm being too hard on it...? I found the book to be extremely dull and silly. The characters were so one-dimensional and wispy. There was no flaw to overcome, no conflict to resolve, not even the slightest bit of interest or chemistry. I liked that it was clean, but it was so annoyingly preachy--and I like religion, so that's saying a lot.
2.5 STARSI really wanted to love this book, but it just wasn’t my cup of tea. The writing was a bit awkward at times and didn’t flow :/.
I just finished reading it for the second time. It is interesting to me, and I wonder why. It's an okay story, but it seems more about the heroine finding happiness in life because of herself, and less about the romance. I guess I think she took a situation and made a life for herself within the framework of her reality. Third reading-this time I was struck by the choice to love someone, rather than it beginning with infatuation.
I thought it was weird that these deeply religious people, who hold sex as something sacred and special, nevertheless decided having sex before really loving the person was a super great idea.
I also thought the frank heart-to-hearts between mother and daughter about their sex lives read as strange and uncomfortable.
made such honesty and comfort talking about sex really not believable.This book is okay in the following circumstance:-You are in a situation where you desperately need any sort of distraction: an airplane, a desert island, a dull afternoon.
No one needs to know that what you are reading is not great literature.
I loved the Christian values, I liked the characters, and the plotline was unique compared with so many generic reads these days.
Normally such writing would bother me, especially since I'm not a huge fan of romance books.
It was a nice change to see a couple married first and then finding their way to love and happiness.I loved both the characters of Shelby and Nick.
While I've never been married, and even more so, not married a prince, I found I could relate with Shelby.The only thing I didn't like was, as I said, all the intimate scenes.
Usually i don't write really mean reviews but I'm going to make an exception for this book because of all the religious rubbish.
It got to the point where if someone mentioned the word "Lord" I skipped whole paragraphs just because It was so irritating and felt as if the author wrote this book for the sole purpose of ramming her beliefs down the readers throat.
If you're into long winded religious babble where the characters are either vaguely happy, vaguely worried or cry a lot and the heroine is a spineless ninny this is the book for you!!!
lame - that's the best word I can think of for this book. The story isn't a bad premise but the characters are shallow and inauthentic and continually spout eye roll inducing dialog. There is no conflict in the whole book. that's about it.except I can't say enough how painfully overt and inauthentic the characters are. If Twilight is a 14-year-old girl's fantasy, this is a 14-year-old Puritan's fantasy. I'm not trying to be mean, but The Princess is simplistic and immature both emotionally and spiritually.
Lori Wick found perhaps the only way to have an arranged marriage work at the turn of the 21st century: royalty. I find Nicolai's struggle between loving his dead wife and loving his new bride to be heart-felt and believable. I adore Shelby, but don't always think her not sharing her feelings about certain things works. Still a great late night read.
One of my FAVORITES!!
The plot was something new I haven’t read before, the story was interesting, and as a Christian I enjoyed the intertwining of faith.There were, however, a few cons that cost it a full star rating.
About halfway through I was wondering why I wasn’t getting attached to the book as I do often when I’m enjoying the plot– it’s because the characters aren’t very relatable.
Shelby is virtually flawless, and most of the other characters in the book are pretty near perfect as well.
Also, and this is just a personal tick, Wick makes up the settings of her books by smooshing places from real countries/states together.
This was the worst book I have read in a while.
But while Nikolai is a perfect gentleman at public functions, he remains distant and shy at home, leaving Shelby to ponder the inner workings of his heart.
It was completely centered around Shelby and Nikolai's relationship with God and eachother.
I really enjoyed everything that happened within this book.
However, the first half of the book was a bit boring and annoying to me.
At times, it felt like they were a bit unreal, and couldn't be real people.
Hopefully some time in the future, I will be able to read some more of Lori Wick's books.
I actually learned a lot from it, and even felt that I appreciated my own wonderful husband more after reading it.I would have stamped it with four stars, except that I felt like Wick went over the top with the Christian aspect of the plot - specifically, by adding an entire, random, pointless side plot about a little boy who wanders in and out of the story a bit and, through his associations with the royal family, comes to accept the Gospel.
Okay so here is another classic on my list. I have read this book probably 7 or 8 times total. It is an easy read but very enjoyable. I love the idea of a modern day arranged marriage and how that would work in today's world. There are a few times when the book is a bit cheesy but I still love this story and the characters. Next to Sophie's Heart this is my favorite Lori Wick book.
I loved this book, it took me five hours to finish it.What makes this book so special is that it's a modern day fairy tale, and Nicki and 'Red' spend more time developing their friendship and how well they know each other, rather than focusing all on...well you know. :) A very good book.
I've only ever read one Lori Wick book aside from this one "Sophie's Choice" and it was pretty good. For this story the characters just felt too stiff. All the dialogue here came off as uncomfortable and just showed the characters had no chemistry (maybe that's what she was going for
I LOVE this book. It's a modern day fairy tale princess story. Shelby agrees to an arranged marriage to the prince of a created country. They meet for the first time on their wedding day and through their faith in God they learn to love each other. One of the best contemporary books I've ever read.
I love this book. I stayed up half the night to finish it because I couldn't put it down. Written by a Christian writer is does preach a little but it is a great read.
I wish we could give negative stars.This was a waste of time.Poorly written story and dialogue.Flat characters.SO CRINGE (especially the parents oh my gosh. Not cute. Not #FamGoals. Just grossly cringe).No chemistry and no romance.Opposite of romance, really. 700 (digital) pages about each character forcing themselves to be in love just to prove a point that love is a choice.I agree, love is a choice. But a choice after you’re already married because of loving your spouse in the first place. A choice to KEEP loving. Honestly, this book was rubbish and cringe.
When I started this book I thought it would like reading a Melanie Dickerson book. It some what was, but not really. I really liked the story line and that her dad was deaf, but there were some things I didn't agree with. Overall it was a really book.
This is my favorite book EVER!!! It has such wonderful characters and a great message!!! Thanks for giving it to me Martha!!! I love it!!!
This was my second time reading this book, and I'm glad that I still liked this story. It was a cute story with a slow building romance and relationship. It made for a nice change. I liked the MCs, Nicolai and Shelby. It was nice to watch them grow as characters and in their relationship.
