https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161156.The_Longest_Day
The Longest Day from Cornelius Ryan is a masterpiece of military history and a true classic, which gives the reader a thrilling account on the tragic yet heroic battle, which happened on 6 June 1944, the D-Day. Even though there are hundreds of books that narrates the history, massive battle, events and the aftermath of the Allied Invasion at Normandy, ‘The Longest Day’ with it’s captivatingly lucid, novel like narrative and succinctness shines among them.‘The Longest Day’ is all about the story of the people: the men of the Allied forces, the enemy they fought and the civilians who were caught up in the bloody confusion of D-Day. The book was the result of exhaustive researches and interviews that Cornelius Ryan conducted with the survivors of that eventful day.
I think the only reason I didn't rate this higher is the audio narrator, although the format of the book also wasn't to my taste. I just felt like a timeline was being regurgitated instead of having a story told. What is so amazing to me is just how active this one day in June was, and how it almost felt apart.
The collection – by Ryan and his team – of primary sources is The Longest Day’s great contribution to history.
Of course, the reason The Longest Day is a recognized classic of historical writing is its style.
He gave the soldier a shot of morphine and told him, ‘Sure, you’ll be all right.’ Then, folding the neatly sliced halves of the man’s leg together, Eigenberg did the only thing he could think of – he carefully closed the wound with safety pins.Ryan’s storytelling – whether it involves crusty old generals or callow young riflemen – is pointillist.
Today, on the 72nd anniversary of D-Day, this book is as relevant as ever. I read it as a youngster and have re-read it. There are some days that pivotal in world history and 6 June 1944 is certainly one of them. To learn the history of that day from all perspectives, winners, losers, innocents caught up in it, is to understand the width and depth of the human experience. When researching this day, this year for my own D-Day book, I learned more with each page re-read. I recommend this book and A Bridge Too Far.
The Allies messed up the Normandy invasion.The Germans messed up the defence even more.Therefore, the Allies won World War II.In the process, quite a lot of people died needlessly.End of story.
One of the greatest books about WWII and D-Day. I've read it and seen the movie many times. Always good to go back and reread the stories of our hero WWII soldiers for inspiration and gratitude.
My first comment in Goodreads about this book is: "an orgasmic experience".
Using more than 1,000 sources for this book – former US, British, Allied Forces soldiers, inhabitants of Normandy, even lots of former Nazi officers – Cornelius has successfully blended all their stories (even if it is only a scrap of details) into a masterpiece.My head shook with disbelief a number of times when reading this book.
Fallacies from both sides seemed to create a number of hilarious events, such as when a small unit of Allied soldiers came across a German unit in a French rural road, both units only stared and passed each other and did nothing (!) because they were just too shocked over the presence of each other .
For Rommel, the key was to destroy invasion forces in the water before they could reach land.At times, Ryan’s account reads like a novel as he describes the various aspects of the invasion.
The invasion was a logistical nightmare and Ryan does a wonderful job providing insights into how certain problems were dealt with.Ryan’s work was published in 1959 after years of research and the final product was exemplary when written and remains a classic account of D-Day seventy-five years later.
This is the first book of Cornelius Ryan's World War II trilogy and, having now read them all, it turns out I saved the best for last. His method of storytelling served this turning point of history well and gave a sense of tension and suspense that was remarkable especially since the ultimate outcome was already well known. If you are interested in an exciting and captivating telling of one of the most momentous events of the 20th century look no further - this it. A true classic.
What a fucking excellent book that was!
This book really did live up to its hype..It is such a detailed and researched book, that surprisingly delivered a brilliant novel-like storytelling narrative in under 400 pages.
Excellent storytelling.
Excellent detailing.
Excellent narratives by all sides involved on the D-day invasion, which includes the American, British, French, Canadian, polish and other allied soldiers, the Germans as well as the normal Normandy civilians who were trapped in a war that was beyond their control.
Throughout the book I felt like I was transported back to that historic day.
وكان واحد فيهم تقريبا فى حفلة في عيد ميلاد تقريباً .وقاعد بيحكي مواقف طريفة....وبيحكي ان ظابط فى سفينة حربية كتب جواب لمراته ولا حبيبته والكاتب عارف اتكتب ايه...
يعني الكاتب لو جوز خالته مكنش بردو الظابط هيحكي ليه قال ايه فى الجواب..و كل شوية يقولك اصل المكالمة الساعة اربعة وخمسة القائد مش عارف مين كلم مين لو الكاتب هناك والله ما هيفتكر الساعة بدقة ده..
وقاعد يرغي فى كام صفحة اشمعنا الحلفاء وايزنهاور اختار يوم ستة يونيو وليه مش خمسة طب ممكن يوم عشرين...يا عم عرفنا ان ايزنهاور قرد وعفريت انجز بقا..كتاب سئ نجمة يادوب عليه..ده لو بيحكي عن خناقة فى بلبيس كان الكتاب يطلع احسن من كدا
The title is taken from a quote of Field Marshall Edwin Rommel, who commanded the German forces defending the Atlantic Wall against invasion, "...the first 24 hours of the invasion will be decisive...the fate of Germany depends on the outcome...for the Allies, as well as Germany, it will be the longest day." That day came on June 6, 1944, and Ryan gives an account not just of that day, but the lead up.
It tells the story from generals to privates, and from both the Allied and German sides.
(One detail that struck me was how one resident was going to have his home pulled down simply because the Germans coveted building materials.) One thing I appreciated about the book was both the epic sweep and the intimacy.
This was a fantastic book! Ryan gave a detailed review from every prospective of D-Day.
A masterpiece of historical narrative, this book was an engaging read. Would have given it five stars, if the the author had excluded the military language, which sadly includes blasphemy. Not a book I would advise for children. The account of D-Day is vivid and violent. I'm astounded how so many details to fell into place in favor of the Allied forces and how so much went wrong for the Germans. It can only be described as divine intervention.
I have seen this movie six or seven times and somehow I had no idea it was a book! This was a great telling of D-Day and any fan of military history should read this one.
His is a straightforward, often heartbreaking tale of the turning point of WWII; however, I agree with another reviewer who stated that a few maps would have been helpful in designating and locating the beaches of Omaha, Juno, Sword, Gold, and Utah on the French coast.
One of the most ironic asides of this book is how Ryan decided on a title...."Believe me, Lang, the first twenty-four hours of the invasion will be decisive....the fate of Germany depends on the outcome....for the Allies, as well as Germany, it will be the longest day" - Field Marshal Erwin Rommel to his aide, April 22, 1944.
Not quite the epic - in terms of length or scope - as Ryan's The Last Battle, but every bit as gratifying.D-Day - 24 hours.
Tick, tock...
Tick, tock...
Tick, tock...
Quite a day, and one not soon to be forgotten.
Tick, tock...Ryan crafts a strange but effective, accessible, and moving brand of history.
A world-changing event through the eyes of individuals of all types - generals, soldiers, sailors, pilots, civilians - American, British, French, German, Russian - each experiences their own day, and Ryan weaves their recollections seamlessly together.I'm glad I wasn't there.
But I'm glad I read the book.
3.8 starsThis was surprisingly enjoyable.
Cornelius Ryan, a war correspondent during WW II and afterward, published this book in 1959, and, despite there having been many subsequent memoirs and government documents relating to the events he describes, memoirs and documents providing further information, nonetheless this remains a classic account of D-Day in June, 1944, the invasion of the German-occupied European continent by the Allies in Normandy, France.Anticipating the invasion, German Field Marshall Erwin Rommel said to his aide in April, 1944, “Believe me, Lang, the first twenty-four hours of the invasion will be decisive…the fate of Germany depends on the outcome…for the Allies, as well as Germany, it will be the longest day.”Ryan creatively begins his account by viewing the events immediately preceding the invasion from the point of view of the German defenders, reviewing their positions, their anticipations and uncertainties, and their preparations.
It is always amazing what we accomplished logistically, back when it was run under the civil service under military control, before the time of computers when people did all of that amazing work on a writing pad, but their minds held info on just about where everything was, where it was or knew who to call who knew where signaling mirrors were stored.
So different than today when it was privatized in time for the last war and our troops were short of everything and no one knew where anything was on any logistical base in spite of having computers.The ingenuity of chain throwing tanks to clear land mines and the entire engineering wonder of the mulberries...and the installation of harbors and all those amazing things engineering companies do.
The Longest Day: A Riveting Epic about June 6, 1944 The world is full of history, it is made everyday. But on June 6, 1944, also known as D-Day, was when the Allies invaded Normandy during World War II, drastically changing it. Cornelius Ryan captures it perfectly. Ryan begins his nonfiction tale with the planning of Operation Overlord and the amount of work involved with trying to execute it. He shows how the Germans were making preparations for any invasion and how hard it was for the Allied c
But Cornelius Ryan captures the Story of D-Day respectfully and interestingly that makes readers want to keep on reading.
Cornelius Ryan writes very seriously.
During the first part of the epic, Ryan brings up a man from Europe who used to do crossword puzzles for the paper, in a very huge coincidence, the man uses words that are used as secret codes for the operation.
I really loved reading this book and would recommend it to anyone interested in history and or war history.
An interesting read that you will not want to put down.
إننا عندما نضع على أجسامنا الرداء العسكرى لا نهتم بالمعارك إلا عندما نخوضها ........................
The whole operation took the Germans by surpise since they were expecting the Allied Force to attack at Pas-De-Calais (nearest port to Dover)and not the sleepy town (Normandy) on southern France.The author does not take sides on who was better than whom, rather he portrays ordinary soldiers and officers fighting their respective enemies.Movie based on the book is also worth a watch with an ensemble cast of leading actors doing excellent job.
I've read a lot about D-day, but hadn't gotten around to reading this book until recently. It's good. I wished it would have covered a little more--gone until the amphibious troops linked up with the paratroopers. But I guess then they would have had to call it The Longest Day, plus a few after and that wouldn't sound as good.
For such a short work on such a historical day, Ryan packs enough information for anyone looking for more than an overview, but less than a tome on the subject. Thoroughly researched and strongly written.
Not typically my genre of books, but in efforts to learn more about the history of Normandy for our upcoming trip, I started reading last night and can not put this book down. It reads like a riveting novel, but constantly reminding myself this isn't fiction!
Film only
Very well researched, thrilling from first to last page, this book is a must if you want to learn out more about the D Day, when the Allied forces landed on European soil to free nations from Fascism and Nazism.Hundreds of testimonials were collected and compiled and it shows all sides of the story.
Sure, there is some very sad stories there.
It is a book about war.
I was very surprised to read that on some beaches, the Allies were shocked to have this little resistance from the ennemy.
Wow. Read it so we don't forget what sacrifices mean.
We get to see what happened from various points of view – the Allies, the Germans, and even some of the French civilians living in Normandy at the time of the attack.
This book brings you to the shores of the five beaches: Utah, Omaha, Juno, Sword and Gold, as well as Pointe du Hoc. Wow!
This reads like fiction and, even knowing the outcome, I found it quite suspenseful at times.
I didn’t really know much detail about what went on, and for anyone with any interest in it, I think this is a must read.
My First World War 2 book and what a experience. Truly amazed at the vivid details that we have June 6th that morning many years ago. Sobering book that showed the true nature of D-Day. A wonderful retelling of the longest day.
