https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236.The_Complete_Nonsense_of_Edward_Lear
and Lessons in Good Taste!And Val d'Aosta Cows!Fun:There was an Old Man of MoldaviaWho had the most curious behaviour; For while he was able He slept on a table,That funny Old Man of Moldavia.Despair:There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,who wished he had never been born: so he sat on a chair till he died of despairthat dolorous Man of Cape Horn.Existentialism:There was an Old Man who said, “Well!Will nobody answer this bell?
So, that one came from this work by Edward Lear?Nonsense Story: "The History of the Seven Families of the Lake Pipple-Popple" is my favorite because it is easier to read and has more funny pictures.
This is a nice funny book especially if you have nothing to do and you just want to enjoy simple poems with rhymes that you normally see posted on the kindergarten room's walls.
Edward Lear (1812-1888) was an English artist, illustrator, author and poet, and is renowned primarily for his literary nonsense, in poetry and prose and especially his limericks, a form that he popularised.
I love the poem where he introduces himself! From memory:How pleasant to know Mr Lear!Who has written such masses of stuffSome think him ill-tempered and queerBut a few find him pleasant enough.He sits in a beautiful parlourWith hundreds of books on the wallHe drinks quite a lot of MarsalaBut never gets tipsy at all.He has many friends, laymen and clericalOld Foss is the name of his catHis body is perfectly sphericalHe weareth a runcible hat.He reads, but he cannot speak, SpanishHe cannot abide ginger beerEre the years of his pilgrimage vanishHow pleasant to know Mr Lear!
A Book of Nonsense - √ :) :D(Ha-ha-ha!!!)I had read this volume earlier separately and its a joyride.
And then the parents stave themselves and make a pickle of themselves and are now kept in a museum!!!What was Lear thinking writing these?They are nonsensical sure, as promised but the sense of humor is very dark and not at all suited for children.
The range I had imagined Lear was set in has been made vast considerably after reading this collection.
It is a really good read for limerick lovers and Lear fans.
Should have read it when I was younger.
Right! I have no idea, what I feel about this one.
Sometimes is funny with all the rhymes and old stuff, but most of the topics not related to my personal life (more into not relatable to 2010s jokes). But good and inspiring illustrations
My favorite rhyme from this book is "The Old Man with a Nose".
This book of rhymes meets the sound characteristic for poems.
An example of this is like in the rhyme "The Old Man with a Beard" the words beard and feared rhyme exactly.
As I read each poem in this book the image that appeared in my mind was very close to the ones present with each poem.
Once you read this book you can't say you are not in good spirits.
There is a lot of creative word play used in this book through the poems.
Here's a sample from Lear: "There was an Old Person of Bangor, Whose face was distorted with anger!
He tore off his boots, And subsisted on roots, That irascible Person of Bangor."Compare this to poem #21 under the heading "Death" in the Wordsworth Book of Limericks: "A daring young fellow in Bangor Sneaked a super-swift jet from its hangar.
When he crashed in the bay, Neighbors laid him away In rather more sorrow than anger."If, after carefully considering these poems, you still want to read the present collection, more power to you.
Yes, I did think this book was more or less complete nonsense.
I do like a good limerick.
"The limerick packs laughs anatomical / In space that is quite economical.
/ But the good ones I've seen / So seldom are clean / And the clean ones so seldom are comical." Edward's are clean, and the last line usually repeats the exact phrase of the first line like this: "There was an Old Man at a casement / Who held up his hands in amazement / When they said, 'Sir, you'll fall!' / He replied, 'Not at all!' / That incipient Old Man at a casement." Yawn.
Lear's illustrations are what saved this book from a one star rating.
'There was an Old Man of the HagueWhose ideas were excessively vague;He built a balloonTo examine the moonThat deluded Old Man of the Hague.'' There was a Young Lady of TyreWho swept the loud chords of a lyre;At the sound of each sweepShe enraptured the deep,And enchanted the city of Tyre.'
5 stars for The Owl and the Pussycat, the Jumblies, and Self-Portrait. 1-2 stars for almost everything else in this cursed book. You'd think "nonsense" would be more fun to read, but this was an absolute chore to finish. I have to confess, by the last 50 pages I was just skimming along, praying for it to end.
مثل ماقلت من قبل، أدب التفاهة حاجة غريبه وجميلة وممتعة! أفكار كثيره عجيبه تُخلط وتتحرك وتخرج بسلاسة وكأنها تحدث كُل يوم. شخصيات لا تفكر بإمكانية تحويلها لأبطال قصص تجدها ترقص وتسافر في مغامرات طويله لا معنى لها. حبيت إدورد لير من هالكتاب. حس الفكاهة عنده جداً عالي ومميز.
What a strange read. I will admit I skimmed most of it because the content is some of the oddest ramblings I have come across. Kind of like being inside the head of a writer/poet who is mentally unstable or having a nervous breakdown. Some of the hand drawings were creative though.
Interesting genre. Of the whole collection, I liked most the first one, A Book of Nonsense.
I'm not sure which edition of Edward Lear's nonsense poetry I read as a kid so I picked this one. Really enjoyed it!
Brilliant!!! :-D
What nonsense, with just a few chuckles. Best suited for younger children with broad vocabularies.
Everyone needs a little nonsense and goofiness in his/her life. We all know a few good authors to go for that—Dr. Seuss, Shel Silverstein, Lewis Carroll. Before I picked up this book on a whim somewhere, I didn’t know Edward Lear belonged right alongside those other giants of fun and goofy children’s (and of course adults-who-haven’t-grown up) literature. I started reading this at the beginning of the year with the intention of doing so by a page a day. The stories, rhymes, etc. are bite-sized s
Everyone needs a little nonsense and goofiness in his/her life.
Before I️ picked up this book on a whim somewhere, I️ didn’t know Edward Lear belonged right alongside those other giants of fun and goofy children’s (and of course adults-who-haven’t-grown up) literature.
I started reading this at the beginning of the year with the intention of doing so by a page a day.
are bite-sized so it was perfect for this kind of reading.
It’s quite fun to have to start my day with a nonsensical rhyme rolling about in my head.Great for kiddos.
Great for adults who are actually kiddos.
The drawings (especially the nonsense botany) and the songs (e.g., The Owl and the Pussy-Cat) are Lear's best stuff. Many of the limericks are painful. I shouldn't have been surprised by this, but my 4-year-old, when she listened, enjoyed Lear more than I did. Also, if you didn't know that Lear's primary work was drawing birds for ornithology books, please take a few minutes to check out  that  stuff. It's amazing.
Well, it is a collection of "complete Nonsense" in true sense, starts with 4 lines verse poems, thoroughly witty and enjoyable. So are the playful writings with alphabets and short stories. You have to savor it slowly with little dose of gibberish thinking, now and then. It is amusing that, there seems to be an impression of Lear's doodles on the works of legendary nonsense poetry writer in Bengali literature, Sukumar Ray.
The Complete Nonsense of Edward LearIn this work 288 pages spread over 5 books dealing with different subject matter relating to nonsense.Interesting read in a well laid out and easily accessible book, relating to nonsense with a particularly interesting Victorian theme.The reader would have to prepare themselves with an open mind, and arguably some patience, that taken the work is clearly quite delightful.
This was a fun and quick read ... I can remember my parents reading me "The Owl and the Pussycat" when I was little and I wanted to find out more about its author. The edition I read had lots of notes about when and where each set of stories, poems and songs was written. I still don't know what a 'runcible spoon' is though!!
It was fun to read between the rhymes, not just lines. Unfortunately, the more I read this utter nonsense book, the more I realise that I am really not into poetry books. While I found most of the first book (yep, Complete Nonsense is a bundle of Lear’s Nonsense books) amusing, I had to skip through the pages because things just seem too over the top here.
It is interesting to read one of the first books for children that was not a morality book. These books were meant purely for fun. Lear has a catchy sing-song rhythm in his writing that makes you want to read the verse out loud.An interesting look at children's literature from 150 year ago.
I do agree that I should read this book years ago when I was much younger. Not that interesting for me now that I reached 26. This book still good for those learning vocabularies and to read aloud though.
I remember being fascinated, when young, with what this man could do with the English language. Some of it still holds true. I'd never thought before reading this how much Dr. Seuss must have drawn on Lear.
Turns out I don't like Edward Lear as much as I thought I would.
Love the Nonsense Songs, some of which have a strange, melancholic charm, and are far superior to the limericks, most of which leave me cold.
Loved this when I was a kid. Love it now. This book gave me a love for limericks
