https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311192.Barren_Corn
This is the first time since I've been on GR that I have read a book I was sure I was going to hate.A copy of this, one of the titles the strong minded Heyer suppressed, turned up at the op (charity) shop I volunteer at.  Lucky (I guess) that I was there, as normally broken spine books get thrown straight in the recycling bin. Anyone who has paid collector prices for this - read & weep. My lovely boss refused to accept my offer & I paid NZ$8 for it.There are some positives - mainly that
This is the first time since I've been on GR that I have read a book I was sure I was going to hate.A copy of this, one of the titles the strong minded Heyer suppressed, turned up at the op (charity) shop I volunteer at.
Oddly enough there was a scene between the repulsive Hugh's mother & Lady Powys that reminded me of an exchange between Lord Alverstoke's sisters in Frederica - a romance Heyer wrote over 30 years later.The book is a horrible tale of Staying With Your Own Kind and the ending made me turn to GH's favourite tipple - a gin & tonic.
The best I can say of this is that it's an interesting social document. I can dismiss Georgette Heyer's sexism and classism when she's writing escapist romances and mysteries, but in plain fiction these views are repellent and melodramatic. I guess the pacing and descriptions are good as always, but the book leaves a bad taste (on so many levels). Ugh.
A tragedy, caused by a shop girl allowing herself to be persuaded to marry the nephew of a baron. BARREN CORN was later suppressed by the author. I couldn't read it for long -- eventually I looked at the end and decided not to put myself through it.
Did not like at all. Can't believe it was Georgette Heyer.
I really wanted to like this "contemporary" novel (set in the 40's) since I love Heyer's Regency-era fiction... Unfortunately it is pretty boring and the characters never really engaged my interest.
I intend to read Ms. Heyer's biography when this year is done. I'm very anxious to know what she was going through when she wrote this one. A sad, sad tale. Would not recommend this to anyone...
This is the only time I've been disappointed by Georgette Heyer. The story is haunting, but there is nothing positive about it.
Character development, other than Laura, I felt to be stilted.
Penhallow roused deeper feelings, although mostly dislike and loathing of the characters!(view spoiler)[ Heyer wrote Hugh's character to be aware of his own snobbery and hypocrisy, even to explore it and at times have great clarity; I do not think he would be in the least aware.
Hugh thought Laura should cut off all contact with her family, yet it never was an option for him to do the same with his family, probably because he was unable to do anything to take care of himself.
(hide spoiler)]Mediocre Heyer at best, really.
Yikes, not what I was expecting.
When I want something not so comfortable I read something by Brandon Sanderson.
I'm not going to say I disliked this book, I did like it.
I probably would have liked it a lot more if I had some idea what the outcome might be before reading it (the copy I got had no plot description whatsoever).
It's kind of like drinking a glass of what you thought was water, only to discover it's actually Sprite.
Still something you like drinking, it just comes as kind of a shock.
Started like it could be interesting, but got more and more depressing, and then ended awful.
Laura and Hugh meet in Italy, on a hill, where she was for a short vacation, and he was painting a picture, also in Italy for a recovery from a sickness.
They end up getting married, in spite of their difference in social status.
Deciding he would be happier if she was out of the picture, she thinks of something to do that she feels will make sure he will be happy in the future.
She ends up doing something dreadful that she feels will ensure his happiness.
An unusual entry for Heyer - sort of an anti-romance. Whereas many of her romance novels features men and women from different social classes overcoming obstacles to find true love, this story is the inverse. While it may be more realistic to imagine a poor outcome for such a marriage, I found the love part of this story the most difficult to believe. Why would this level-headed woman fall for a ne'er-do-well? Well-written, but the author's outlook on her characters was more cynical than I am used to from her.
Only the second book I've read by Heyer with a sad ending. Interesting read - I didn't like the male main character, and I thought the girl too good for him. Made me wonder how she was able to love someone w/ such glaring faults, enough to give up her own life... Anyway, I enjoyed Heyer's style, as always, but I don't think I'll reread this one, unlike the majority of her books (some of which I've read three times already).
One star is pushing it. I had to skip through the text that follows the whirlwind cross-class romance and dreadful marriage of a woman who worked in a hat shop and an aristocrat with a ratty mother. I don't know if this one was realism when it came out, but boy is it drippy melodrama now, with attendant anti-feminism, Good Girl set up to fail, and wastrel upper class Brits. And it ends with Our Heroine's suicide! Oh, Heyer, No! Originally published 1930.
This is the only Heyer I own that I've read once and never again and I don't see this changing. Gah. To a modern reader, the heroine is so alien as to be impossible to sympathise with and I wnated to give her and her husband a swift slap.I always wanted to read her other contemporary stories but after this one I stopped looking for them.
Not a happy story, but a good tragedy. Heyer herself believed in a rigid class system, and this story gives some validity to her views.
Like watching a train wreck in agonizing slow motion. The most depressing Heyer book. I need to read Fredrica after this to restore my humor.
Completely unlikeable characters and absolutely the most infuriating ending I've read in a long time.
