https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10884579-queen-lucia---miss-mapp
Five Stars - Miss MappFour Stars - Queen LuciaVideo Review to come!
In Queen Lucia, the characters are engaged in trying to outdo each other with the most interesting of home entertainments.
In Miss Mapp, the interactions are more personal as Miss Mapp tries to outdo her rivals.
None of the characters in either book have very many good qualities, but it all works.
I understand these two books are part of a series and one is Lucia and Mapp.
Wodehouse, however, is much lighter-hearted and presents more sympathetic characters.
Benson's characters are more scheming and complicated.
Benson was an expert on middle class village society, and saw much about its habits and values that was hilarious -- in sort of a bitter way.
In the books we see and hear much more of what goes on in the minds of his antiheroines, enough that we can even sometimes pity their loneliness and their boredom.
Without their schemes, their backbiting and their one-upmanship, how would they fill their days?
One can only arrange just so many flowers, and play just so many games of bridge!
On chapter eight and loving every delicious page so far. Indian guru dispensing Eastern mysticism and delicious curry, POW! Georgie's toupée, he may go hatless, THWACK! Gossip on the village green, WHO JUST ARRIVED IN A MOTOR?? KABOOM! Fancy opera singer at the garden party, SWOON!You should read this book without delay! It really is the limit! Croquet, anyone??Update: I have now finished the first book of this double edition and I'm enthrilled about the whole thing. I adore Miss Olga Bracely, if her name were Erma she could not be more perfectly "smute".
Funny, witty and well-observed, even though none of the main characters are at all sympathetic.
I keep returning to these farcical novels, featuring proud, pretentious villagers trying ineptly to mask their baser instincts as they nose around in one anothers’ business in adjacent homes on the green. Edward Gorey loved these books, too. Now that I think of it, Lucia and Miss Mapp remind me of the histrionic characters who slather themselves over stone columns, sigh, and lift the backs of their wrists to their foreheads in Gorey’s animated opening of Masterpiece Theater. Campy and clever.
It is always hard to get into a book where none of the characters are very likeable, and the sentences are long and rambling. But once I did, I enjoyed this little window into the pettiness of English village life. It ended up being quite entertaining. I preferred the Queen Lucia over the Miss Mapp because the situations were more amusing.
There is nothing earth shattering in this novel, but it's a fun example of 1920s/1930s comedic life in a quaint English village. The characters and their activities revolve into comedies of manners. It's a very funny book and the biting dialogue between the characters is spot on! 3.5 stars.
Keeping up appearances! What a fun read - satire at its best.
Witty comedy about two delightfully nasty women.
Review copy courtesy of the publisher via NetGalley.

I received this book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review.DNFFigured I would enjoy this since I've liked a number of similar books, but it wasn't really my cup of tea personally.That said, they seem to be quite highly rated by a number of people, so don't let the fact that they didn't work for me stop you from giving them a go.
