https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667416.14_000_Things_to_Be_Happy_About
My best friend at the time and I went into a book store and bought this book.
We read it together every time we hung out.
And whenever I was feeling down he'd send me a text of something I should be happy about.
This book has helped me with so much.
Just flipping threw it puts a smile on my face.
One day I decided I should get a copy, and so I did.
Best ten bucks I've ever spent.
I keep it in my purse at all times.
This is a must have book for everyone in my opinion.
This book makes me happy.I don't think of every item on this book's list as a personal happy thing for me, but no one is going to.
So I think it's silly to judge this book on the fact that you can't relate to every single thing listed.
I still open this book and skim down the pages and find things that cheer me up plenty.
There are scribbles and highlighting in my copy from where I've marked the things I really relate to.Furthermore, this book has inspired me to start my own list of happy.
A book that must exist in every bookshelf of every library of every person in the world.
It's a book that helps us become more and more optimistic, and open to ourselves and to others.
It makes us think about life, love, friendship, who we are, who we used to be, and how we will be able to achieve even our greatest dreams by finding happiness in daily routine, in everyday life.5 out of 5 stars, because it really is a "Bible" for my gray days.
A good meal makes the stomach happy and the heart.
UGHHHI wanted to buy this for so long and when I finally found it in the bookshop was super disappointed, it's just a list of totally random things :S some things are even weird and I don't know why they were there.
So, I haven't read the whole book and the "date I finished this book" I entered in the GR database is as random as it can be. I've kept it on my nightstand for almost 20 years now and pick it up whenever I feel a little blue. Sometimes it works - that is, it puts a smile on my face - and sometimes it doesn't.
LOVE!
LOVE!
LOVE!
It's just SUCH a cheery book!
My friend recently relayed to me a quote he wrote...
"Some of the best books have the roughest covers".
14,000 Things is one such book.
I own TWO copes and mine iare completely dog eared and delightful!
This IS my favorite book.
You'd have to pick it up to really appreciate why...
but it's a list (which I love) and it's happy thoughts (which, I also love).
you can just pick it up and read one line, two lines, a page or two...
only experiences and thoughts.
I - LOVE - IT, Exclamation Mark!
And I don't think this is a book where you can read it from page 1 to the end, or a book that you'll ever be completely finished with.
Hence I'm not adding an 'Date I finished this book'.I got this book for christmas and since then I've made it a habit to picking up this book at a moment during the day, usually right before I go to bed and flip through a couple of pages and read a few of these 'things to be happy about'.
But after having flipped through these pages for a few days I realized that I actually enjoy the randomness of all the things.
Someone recommended this book to me when I was having a hard time with some things. I started reading a couple pages a night and then writing 10 things that made me happy that day. It's really eye opening the spectrum of things that I put down ~ anything from what I had for dinner to seeing someone I hadn't seen in years. It's a really great gift for someone who likes to journal, is going through a difficult time or even for a youth director, minister, etc...
Simple message from this book: "enjoying the little things in life.”Now, I want to create a list of my things that makes me happy too =)
I don't understand why this was published widely, as opposed to, like, self-published and sold on a very small scale for the intended audience, which seems to be the author's family.
This is the kind of book that will make you happy just by flipping through the pages. It has a great point! When i first got it, i thought it was crap but now i cherish it.
Obviously I haven't read the whole thing. But i bought it off amazon for a penny, and it just came in the mail today! I've skimmed through a few pages, but I am very excited to just set it on my shelf and have it ready for whenever I am in need of happy thoughts!
The piece that has me so agitated is the fact that one thing that makes her happy is she is the vexing person who likes to enter a store, grab something from the shelves and then randomly drops it off in a place where it doesn't belong.
Stepping back and taking into consideration what type of book this would normally be in favor of the writing style as it shows that the author does have the same things that make her happy.
But when comparing this writing to others things that make her happy it feels like it is sarcastic.
Anyhow, I have those moments in life when I just feel like everything and everyone is a bunch of idiots, and sometimes I just need something to remind me of all the little happy things in life.
Right when I got it, I read about 3 pages and I was basically just like "AWH YES, this is the book man.
Well, back to business - I Googled the book (because I am nosy as fuck, and I need to know what other people do to this happy little thing) and saw that some people highlighted the things they personally found happy and made them smile.
It's a book to grab when your bored, or when not up in the mood ..
The simplicity of things listed, the really tiny things that we may take for granted at times are truly what we should be happy about ..
It is a guide not a book ..
A list of words put together to remind you of all the happy moments you have in way by the author has shared with us readers her moments to embrace our own happy moments and be happy about them..
This book isn't like other books. This book is a list of 14,000 things to be happy about. Some examples of things to be happy about were leaves falling on a cold day, starbucks early in the morning, and also eating water ice on a hot summer day. This book may seem boring at first because it is just a list but once you start reading it you dont want to put it down.
This is now my favourite book! It really helps you appreciate the simpler things and cheered me up whenever I'm sad. It's small enough to take everywhere but thick enough to find a new thing at every page. I think that if everybody had this book then we might live in a much happier world
The whole book was based off of an opinion. I guess the way she wanted to organize it was by having everyone connect to it. Myself personally was expecting 14,000 reasons everyone would be able to be happy about. Now THAT would be a great book idea!
Com'è che do un voto ad un libro che ho appena preso e che ho solo sfogliato? Perchè in questo caso non c'è bisogno di leggerlo tutto per capire che è un'idea semplicissima e geniale e non è necessario condividere ogni singola cosa, perchè è il concetto che conta."14000 things to be happy about" è una lunghissima lista di cose che l'autrice ama e di cui ha preso nota per mezzo secolo. E' un libro che ognuno di noi può scrivere, e sai cosa? Inizio oggi il mio.
How this book can make you smile:1. Open a random page2. Read at least one lineThis is a very sweet book. The 14,000 things are really random and I'd have probably never thought about them if I haven't read the book :)
Happiness is a choice ♥
Zvykla jsem si, když mám špatnou náladu, je mi smutno nebo, přečíst si stránku, dvě a hned je mi líp, když už uvědomím, jaké maličkosti dokážou trn den udělat lepším. ❤
When you feel like your whole life sucks, nothing goes right and you have a hard time being thankful for all the amazing little things... then go read this book.
This book is nothing but a book-long list of things that have made the author happy over the course of many years.
But I have loved this book from the moment I picked it up years ago.
Kipfer does it for you, and reminds you that there is, indeed, much beauty and wonder and joy in even the smallest of things.
You won't agree with everything she likes (what would be the fun of life if we all had the same likes and interests?), but you will find many things to love and remind you of the goodness of life in the pages of this book.
Ultimately there isn't much to not like about this book. It is one giant, 600 page, list of little things which makes the author happy. Some of the items sound like hell to me (mainly sports related), but she did have a lot of my little happiness listed - big sunglasses, Sunday brunch buffet, getting into bed with clean sheets, promise of a small package,grey t-shits, keep calm and put your jammies on, coffee shops, french lace, summer storms, Starbucks Caramel Macchiato, dozens of places to curl up with a book.
This book has a very bad format and has strange things that make this author happy. I decided to cross of things that did not make me happy/strange things. I wish the author would have formated this as a list and not a list followed by commas. I also wish there were not foods listed. There are also strange illustrations and inappropriate things that make this author happy. I do not recommend getting/reading this book.
I didn't finish this book. It is essentially a list of things that make the author happy! At first I would smile at certain things but after a while it got a bit tedious. I also found the list to contain things that would obviously only appeal to the author as they were personal and also contained a lot of repetition, things were listed multiple times with slight differences!I can see the appeal of this book but it just wasn't for me.
I actually read the "translated to Finnish" - version, which wasn't really a good idea, because it had been translated and adapted in the Finnish culture. So where there might have been New York there now was Helsinki or some other Finland's city. I only read this version because in Finland (in the faraway place I live in), there aren't so many books aviable in their original language and many of them are translations.
The title of this book should have been called a list of bull s*** I think should make people happy. Curse u borders for going out of business leaving me to scramble with the rest of the crowd to pick up whatever I could get my hands on. That's how I end up with this disaster. Wishing I could make a few dollars making a list of things I find happiness in. For the love of god don't pick this book up she doesn't deserve one more red cent. Horrible head splitting nightmare avoid at all costs.
From the right perspective, there is reason to be happy about just anything. So I didn't quite get why the things on this list are supposed to be particularly happiness infusing. I wanted to use this book as an inspiration to work on a personal list of things and activities that make me happy but turns out this books isn't quite for me. Maybe its spectrum is a bit too broad. Then again, like I said, from the right perspective there is reason to be happy about almost anything.
