https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216363.The_Man_in_the_High_Castle
The awkwardness of the words coming out of my mouth did not even occur to me for several sentences.I'm pretty sure at some point during the evening I also said, with party-speaking volume, "I think I really like Dick!" Sometimes I wish English had fewer homophones.Suffice it to say that I am swearing off parties and returning to my safe, almost-completely-awkwardness-free hermetic lifestyle.Ok, this book.
All the characters in this what-if book are reading their own what-if book postulating a world in which the Axis powers didn't win WWII.
[Original review, Feb 22 2016]DISCLAIMER: It would evidently be irresponsible to call Donald Trump a Nazi merely on the strength of a recent speech in which he suggested it would be desirable to shoot Muslims using bullets dipped in pig's blood.
Does he thinka) that the video clip in question has been faked by the liberal media to discredit Mr. Trump,b) that the idea of shooting Muslims with bullets dipped in pig's blood will not please the ignorant racist demographic, orc) that I am in fact an expert on the subject, and should not disingenuously claim the contrary?Mr. Crockett, please clarify.
I found it hard to care about any of the mish-mash of characters, which for me means that I ultimately found it hard to care about the direction of the story and its outcome.What this novel does best of all is remind people how close the Nazis came to winning the second world war.
I especially like the way we get a glimpse of how this takeover has affected the rest of the world, not just the United States, we learn about the situation across multiple continents and how the Nazi beliefs have developed.
This is an example of a novel with perfect world-building, clever politics, but little to care about emotionally.
“They want to be the agents, not the victims, of history. They identify with God's power and believe they are godlike. That is their basic madness. They are overcome by some archtype; their egos have expanded psychotically so that they cannot tell where they begin and the godhead leaves off. It is not hubris, not pride; it is inflation of the ego to its ultimate — confusion between him who worships and that which is worshiped. Man has not eaten God; God has eaten man.”  If Franklin Delano Roosev
He meets a young progressive Japanese couple who want to discuss a future based on the book by Hawthorne Abendsen called The Grasshopper Lies Heavy which presents an alternative reality where the Axis lost and the Allies won.
The man, Abendsen, who has taken the world by storm with his book depicting a different outcome from the war.The I Ching plays a pivotal role as characters use I Ching to make decisions.
I certainly would have read more about this world that Dick created.
I read this book another lifetime ago, but wanted to refresh my memory before watching the pilot episode.
The idea is interesting, if a little tired: what if the Axis won World War II and divvied up the world between Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan?
This new world order only really serves as a backdrop for Dick's slightly skewed storytelling, which jumps between the more interesting plot of a shadow conspiracy to nuke Japan, and a painfully tiresome tale of modern-day antiquing.
Somewhere else in there is a pointless thread about a cult book that outlines a parallel history where the Allies win the war, and then the whole thing just kind of stops, as if nothing ever happened.Maybe it was all a dream.
Maybe I didn't really read it after all.
Dick and science fiction might be underwhelmed by The Man in the High Castle since, other than passing mention of cross- continent rocket-ship travel and a German exploration of Mars, there really isn’t any science or signature PKD craziness or large-scale action; rather, Dick’s 1962 book is alternative history, the aftermath in the United States after Germany and Japan win World War II and a novel of ideas.
Curiously, rumors have it the author of the outrageous Grasshopper bestseller is a paranoid living in isolation on a Wyoming mountain in a fortress-like house surrounded by barbed wire and heavy artillery, calling himself The Man in the High Castle.
Thank God, this is fiction, at least in our dimension!  WELCOME TO 1962   It is impossible that ours is the only world; there must be world after world unseen by us, in some region or dimension that we simply do not perceive. This book is a frightening glimpse of how our world could been if the Axis Powers would have won the World War II.The Nazi Germany and the Imperial Japan won and they divided the planet between them. Even the United States is now divided with the East Coast dominated by Na
This book is a frightening glimpse of how our world could been if the Axis Powers would have won the World War II.The Nazi Germany and the Imperial Japan won and they divided the planet between them.
It’s interesting how this “experiment” of a world where the Axis Powers won the WWII, it’s clear that while living in Nazi Occupied Nations is a very horrific scenario, the book establishes that being a citizen in the Imperial Japan Occupied Countries isn’t so bad.
Philip K Dick was certainly a brilliant man and a gifted writer.
Perhaps, Haruki Murakami was somewhat inspired by Philip K Dick to leave the story with lots of questions unanswered.
I know lots of Japanese people and have been to Japan a dozen times, and it seems to me highly improbable that the Japanese would turn so obsessively to Taoism and superstition because Shintoism and Buddhism are so ingrained in their culture which - to my understanding- is nearly the polar opposite of Tao. That being said, it allowed PDK to make his typical forays into the psyche of his characters.

from a historical standpoint, this book is fascinating.
this is my first PKD book and i was blown away by the world building.
however, even though i thought the idea of this book, and world building surrounding that idea, was remarkable, i cant ignore the fact that i didnt really enjoy the story itself.
many of them i actually didnt see the point of including them in the story to begin with.
overall, this was very interesting from a historical and political standpoint.
My preparedness for the regime change taking place in the United States--with elements of the Electoral College, the Kremlin and the FBI helping to install a failed business promoter who the majority of American voters did not support in the election--continues with The Man In the High Castle, the Hugo Award winning novel by Philip K.
Dick's sheer output and high concept hooks that can be reduced to three words--"Axis Won WWII"--have proved irresistible to film and television over the years, but reading this novel was like reading the dayplanner of a middle manager: thought provoking at times but terribly dull.The story is set in the Pacific States of America fifteen years following Capitulation Day in 1947.
The Man in the High Castle by Philip K.
It is the story of a segmented and defeated United States after the Axis powers won World War II.
Taking a roving perspective amidst several characters and some loosely connected interwoven storylines, PKD explores a world where America is divided into three distinct sections and controlled by either Japan or Germany.
The story also explores racism as well as common PKD themes of confused realities and subjective perceptions.
Most interestingly is that there is a book within the book, written by the man in the high castle, where the allies won the war.
thankfully, there's very little of that obvious government intrigue and new-world-order shit that lesser writers focus on -- rather, Dick's obsession is the spiritual life of the individual in a totalitarian society told in the form of a wonderfully messy jumble of ideas and ruminations on race and history and human connection and destiny.
in fact, i think dick's ideas are so powerful, they somewhat take over the novel...
They want to be agents, not the victims, of history."And there's an obsession with objects in the book...
with the spiritual 'life' of objects.
check this passage:She said, 'what is "historicity"?''When a thing has history in it.
The twists and the turns, the inexplicable and the merely odd things that happen to the people, all of it could be blamed on the I Ching, and by extension, the vagaries of real life.
So, again, we had to return to the I Ching and divine the deeper reasons.Themes can and will be untangled with enough effort, and they're pretty cool, but this novel is by no means a simple and straightforward read.
An additional I Ching reading about the veracity of this novel tells us that it is a hidden truth.
Germany and Japan win World War II, and it has something to do with the I Ching.
Remarkable that no one has filmed it, considering that it's almost certainly his best novel and many others have become movies.___________________________________________The other day, there was a thread where people were talking about works of art composed under extreme formal constraints - Perec's La Disparition, Böök's Eunoia and things like that.
But, when you come down to it, using the I Ching to make every decision in writing a book is an extremely strong formal constraint.
Has the I Ching written any more books?
It seemed like an overwhelmingly large number characters constantly consult the I Ching for guidance, which has no appeal to me whatsoever.Okay, speaking of plot, or lack thereof.
The book takes place in Japanese-controlled western United States (The United States lost World War II, and was divided between Nazi Germany and Japan).
Even the dissatisfying ending asking, “What is reality?” felt so contrived, it was almost like PKD got tired of this writing this book and simply quit on it.Overall, this book was very flat for me.
I didn't feel involved with the characters or their alternate world.
After his thought and writing took a more Christian turn in the early 1970s (though he was always a professed Episcopalian) he ultimately came to the belief that the 20th-century world is an illusion caused by Satan and that we are actually living in the period described in the New Testament book of Acts.
(Dick also refers to the Chinese I Ching, and reportedly used that method to divine the different turns his plot should take.) The alternate world scenario described above is only one competing "reality" in the book.
Hugo Award 1963.It’s a bit of a stretch to call this science fiction. Alternate history, Germany/Japan win WWII. Ahead of it’s time, probably. I’m currently reading Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, more science fiction. One interesting aspect of this novel was the inclusion of an alternate history novel inside the story line titled *The Grasshopper Lies Heavy, wherein the Allies win the war. Clever touch.*A novel published in 2015 borrows the title of Dick’s imagined novel. I understand it’s premise is totally different from the original.3.5 Stars.
"The grasshopper shall be a burden"-- The Man in the High Castle, Philip K.
Reading 'The Man in the High Castle', I was reminded of a time when I was in High School in Germany.
At the time, I was very flexible (think Abraham Lincoln meets, falls in love, and produces offspring with Gumbi) and decided to jump/fall/roll off the high dive platform with both legs wrapped around my head while standing on my hands.
I rolled forward spinning head-chasing-ass (my knees were my axis of rotation) until I hit the water.
"We do not have the ideal world, such as we would like, where morality is easy because cognition is easy.
Where one can do no right with no effort because he can detect the obvious."A few years ago, I watched the first season-ish of the TV show adaptation of this book.
At first, I didn't like it.
Just a normal song, and then suddenly - huge and loud and overpowering.
It takes everything it's been doing for 150 pages or so, and shows you that something else, something huge, has been happening all along.I felt really overcome when I finished this book, which was about 8 seconds ago.
When one is afraid of heights, and terrors are in the road; the almond tree blossoms, the grasshopper drags itself along and desire fails; because all must go to their eternal home, and the mourners will go about the streets;-----------Ecclesiastes 12:5 Welcome to your alternative nightmare.Let me set the canvas. Allies have lost the war. Japan and Nazis have divided up the fallen countries. Jews and other groups are still being hunted down. Slavery is legal again. Nazis have mastered space tra
A novel which many characters in this story read.A novel within a novel.If Man in the High Castle is a cracked reflection of the world after WWII where Axis power took control, then Grasshopper lies heavy is another broken reflection where Allies won the war.
It is an alternative history where Allies won the war in a different set of circumstances.Do you know what's remarkable?
One story arc tells the story of the dealers and makers art and artifacts after the war while another arc deals with a mysterious Italian man and a woman's fascination with the author of Grasshopper lies heavy.
Alternative history stories telling about the Nazis taking over the world are not uncommon, the possibilities are obviously horrifying and Dick did not shy away from this motif.
So what then can an alternate history first published more than a half-century ago tell us about our present circumstances?Of course, when considered literally Dick’s fictitious tale has nothing to do with our present situation, but there is a threatening truth to his parable because we must remember that the German populous in the last free elections in the early 1930s chose the Nazi Party to guide their destiny.
The origin of that painting was then traced back to a Dutch art dealer named Han van Meegeren, who consequently was arrested and charged with the crime of collaborating with the Nazis.
A few weeks into his trial, van Meegeren confessed: the Vermeer was a forgery, a fake he had painted to fool Göring and the Nazi art experts.
Inside Dick’s novel, there is another book, titled The Grasshopper Lies Heavy, written by the mysterious “man in the High Castle”, which depicts yet another alternate reality, where Germany and Japan have lost the war, and the U.S. and the British Empire gain hegemony over the world.
So I’ll restrict my review to what’s available.The Man in the High Castle is a very well-produced, finely-detailed dystopian story that gives us a large cast of complex characters living in a cruel alternate history in which the Germans and Japanese have carved up the United States.
Σε ένα εναλλακτικό μέλλον που τον 2ο Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο τον έχουν κερδίσει οι Ναζί, τα πράγματα εξελίσσονται διαφορετικά.
Βέβαια, έχουμε ένα σύμπαν δημιουργημένο από τον Φίλιπ Ντικ, άρα σίγουρα τα πράγματα είναι τελείως διαφορετικά από οποιαδήποτε πραγματικότητα!
Ο άνθρωπος στο ψηλό κάστρο του τίτλου είναι ένας συγγραφέας (που προφανώς μένει σε ένα ψηλό κάστρο), ο οποίος έχει γράψει ένα βιβλίο, στο οποίο οι Ναζί έχουν χάσει τον πόλεμο και περιγράφει την εναλλακτική πραγματικότητα της εναλλακτικής πραγματικότητας.
ελεύθερα μιλούν όλοι γι' αυτό και παραδέχονται ότι το διάβασαν - όχι σαν την ταινία της Τζούλιας που όλοι είχατε ακούσει περιγραφές από κάποιον φίλο σας!)Γενικά είναι ένα πολύ καλό βιβλίο, θα το πρότεινα στους φανατικούς του είδους, οι υπόλοιποι όμως μπορεί να βαρεθείτε!
The first episode follows the lives of three people: Joe Blake, a young man in the Greater Nazi Reich, who is later revealed to be an SS covert agent working for Obergruppenführer John Smith, tracking the transportation of a subversive banned newsreel in which the Allies won World War II; Frank Frink, a jewelry designer who lives in the Japanese Pacific States and conceals his Jewish roots, and Juliana Crain, a young woman who also lives in the Japanese Pacific States and a former fiancée of Frank.

Japan and Germany won World War II.
America has these little hold out places and The Man in the High Castle wrote an alternative history book where America and Great Britain won the war instead.
I just have no idea.Part of the problem could be all the distractions while I was trying to read this one.
Who knows?So maybe give this one a read sometime?
I'll probably comeback to it sometime in the future in a better setting and have a go again.
Which is maybe what the story was trying to say at the end.
There is always hope for a better future.
Este libro me tiene en un conflicto constante.Se me ha hecho eterno, denso, no he conseguido meterme en la historia en ningún momento... pero por otro lado, tiene ideas tan increíbles y me ha hecho recapacitar sobre tantas cosas... Me ha encantado el final, las realidades paralelas, la reflexión que hace sobre el arte... En conclusión, la lectura no la he disfrutado mucho pero me ha dado bastante que pensar, y no se le puede pedir nada mejor a un libro.
I consulted the I-Ching oracle and it said :"Feed the pigeons while they're alive. No blame. No praise"I'm quite sure this indicated I'd better quit reading TMITHC. because it has nothing of worth to offer me at this moment of my life.
