https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/595108.Fortress_Besieged
It is first a social satire, lampooning the hypocrisy of contemporary academia, and the bizarre tangled rituals of courtship and arranged marriages.Our story starts with a young screw-up who is returning to Shanghai after wasting time and money studying in Europe and never getting a degree.
This part of the case study is a look at petty campus politics and the many frauds of academia (including another teacher who has a degree from the same 'school' as the protagonist).
The blurb compares Hongjian to Emma Bovary, but 钱钟书 is no Flaubert and his prose does not rank at the top of the Chinese authors I have read, though he does have many insightful literary metaphors and satirical observations.
If you want to experience the headache of an authentic, demanding Chinese family and marriage, you have to read this book.Note: I've heard the Jeanne Kelly & Nathan K.
Published in the 1940s, and set in 1937-38 during the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese war that preceded World War II, it's supposed to be a triumph of social satire, word play, and uniquely Chinese cynicism about relationships, families, and human behavior in general.
Put another way: at no point during my reading of Fortress Besieged was I able to discern what the big deal is about this book.I suspect the translation is not up to the task of communicating Qian's mastery of Chinese puns, twisted word play, diction-based comedy, and subtle absurdism.
Fortress Besieged needs an update.
Humorous of harsh language and the deeper observation on life.The title is based on a French proverb:Marriage is like a fortress besieged: those who are outside want to get in, and those who are inside want to get out. (Le mariage est une forteresse assiégée, ceux qui sont dehors veulent y entrer, ceux qui sont dedans veulent en sortir.)
An odd book, sometimes clunky, but which ultimately stuck with me.
The clunkiness is fairly straightforward: it reads more like a series of novellas parodying familiar genres (the tourist novella, the road trip novella, the campus novel, the romantic comedy, the romantic farce).
Each of them has its merits, and they do hold together, just, but the structure is very odd.
That said, the parody and satire on both West and East (and West-in-East and East-in-West) is great.
I'm unsure of the commentators' attempts to turn the book into a kind of existentialist zeitgeist thing about "what it means to be a 20th century Chinese man".
I found this book readable, I think I should enjoy reading its Chinese copy more but I know just few Chinese words so I ordered a copy and gave it as a present to T., my bright Chinese student.
Ví như một chùm nho đến tay, người này chọn quả ngon nhất ăn trước tiên, người kia để dành quả ngon nhất ăn sau cùng.
Theo thường lệ, người thứ nhất hẳn là lạc quan, vì mỗi lần anh ta ăn một quả đều là quả ngon nhất trong số nho còn lại; người thứ hai hẳn là bi quan, vì mỗi lần anh ta ăn một quả đều là quả dở nhất trong số nho còn lại.
Tuy nhiên trên thực tế hoàn toàn trái ngược, duyên do là người thứ hai còn có hy vọng, người thứ nhất chỉ có hồi ức.” - Tiền Chung Thư
Se ríe de los extranjeros, esos franceses buenos para nada, esos yanquis que ya a mediados del siglo XX se creían el ombligo del mundo, esos japoneses que [inserte aquí cualquier comentario derivado de la mentalidad de posguerra sino-japonesa]; se ríe de las mujeres, seres hipócritas, controladores, despiadados y rebosantes de secretos; se ríe de la educación occidental, basada en locuras tales como la cordialidad entre el profesorado y sus alumnos; se ríe de los progresistas, esos individuos incapaces de mostrar su respeto por las tradiciones y las costumbres ajenas y siempre dispuestos a arruinar un matrimonio si con eso satisfacen su intransigencia.
That means the pool of books available to American readers in translation from, say, Mandarin is relatively limited—only works of scholarly interest, unusual acclaim, or specifically Western appeal make their way to our libraries.
Not only has it been the object of intense study and widespread consumption in the seventy-five years since its publication, but its consistent references to Western proverbs and literature make it uniquely relatable to an American audience.
(The excellent translation by Nathan K.
None of this, though, changes the novel’s unique and undeniable cultural value.

a fantastic literary gem depicting a turbulent time of Chinese history. The original is much better than the translation but I guess this is unavoidable. There is much essence lost in the attempt to fit intricate Asian subtleties into western concepts.
Great Chinese book, one I hope to read again. Funny, insightful, philosophical -- not much more one could ask from a book.
常读常新 每一遍都看见从前和现在的自己
Allí disfruta de la vida social hasta que acepta un cargo como profesor universitario en el interior del país, lejos del conflicto chino-japonés, junto con un antiguo rival amoroso pero ahora amigo (Xinmei).Es una novela muy costumbrista, en la que se muestra el día a día de la sociedad china en 1937, durante la segunda guerra sino-japonesa.
Se muestran todos los tópicos extendidos del pueblo chino llano: su preocupación por el dinero y la importancia que este tiene en la pareja y la familia, la condición social, las sinceras (y en ocasiones groseras) palabras que todo el mundo se dirige unos a otros, etc.
La fortaleza asediada desmitifica cualquier idea romántica que tuvieramos sobre China y lo hace de una forma demoledora pero a la vez con un humor negrísimo que provoca que todo adquiera un tinte paródico muy llevadero.
Los chinos tienen, en esencia, los mismos problemas que el común de los mortales, a saber: los matrimonios sin amor, el no saber qué hacer en la vida o los sinsabores de las relaciones interpersonales.
La etapa de la universidad de Sanlü y la recta final, de lo mejorcito.
Fantastic satirical novel that portrays different aspects of Chinese Culture in the late 1930s. Great dialogue, character development, and plot line. Main topics are education, social relationships, family dynamics, and differences between Eastern and Western schools of thought.
Cargado de historia y cultura china, con descripciones hermosas. Me encantó viajar con Hongjian.
很多人说围城讲的是婚姻，但我不以为然。它描述的不仅是婚姻，更是家庭，事业，教育，文化与精神困境，“围城”意义贯穿各个层次。“围城”围的的不是婚姻，而是处于中医文化，传统与现代，理想与现实，愤世嫉俗而又无法脱离世俗的困境。用作者的话来说，这书讲的是“现代中国某一部分社会、某一类人物。”围城是第一本中文书让我读着读着忍不住就笑了。作者笔工细腻，作者笔下的人活灵活现，很多特征在当代人身上满满皆是。虽说时代背景是抗日时期，但如今看来却没有时代感，因为当今社会也都是作者笔下主题突出的人物。书内人物大多是留学归来的年轻人，受到了西方文化的熏陶但又没有远大的理想，也缺乏同传统势力和思想斗争的勇气--就像方鸿渐，虽是书里怕是最好的一个人，但是庸庸碌碌，高不成，低不就，与世无争也于事无补，自以为高人一等，但是平庸的不能再平庸，无法把握自己的生活。全书跟着他的脚步走，难免让读者有种悲催的心情。虽然读着读着会心地笑了，笑里面的人，笑自己身边有同样性格特征的人，但是回头一细想，生活处处是“围城”，所以最后笑的还是作为人类的自己和这说不清楚的人生。此书整体诙谐而又悲观，严肃而又可笑，读完之后心里不知是个什么滋味，但却使读者思考人类与社会的关系。人生要有追求，成功后不满足的不断追求，或许只有在不断的追求与希望中，人们才能摆脱真正的“围城”。
圍城，最著名的一句話便是圍在城裡的人想逃出來，城外的人想衝進去，對婚姻也罷，職業也罷，人生的願望大都如此。在與作者相差甚遠的時代背景之下來閱讀，一開始很難進入書中的情節，總覺得人物描寫太過誇張，然而慢慢和角色熟識了，有些人從厭惡到了解，到後來甚至能夠同理而感到一點憐憫，著實是個有趣的閱讀體驗。其實困住自己的圍城，不過是那一點人性中自帶而來的自私、虛榮、和放不下的面子。
Excellent read! I'm not a fast reader, but this book couldn't be put down. As a married English teacher living in China, there are so many things that I can relate to. And it gave my the deepest insight yet to personal relationships of the people of China. Of course, it's only fiction, but it's very difficult for foreigners to get a glimpse into the personal lives of Chinese. It's a great book on many levels.
It is surprising that Qian is not better known in the Western world. His only novel is a masterpiece that has its rightful place amongst the best of the 20th century. It has everything a novel needs. It's funny, it's clever, it's multi-layered, has skillful character portrays and references to literature world-wide (!) and, importantly, a pleasant pace of story-telling. What more would you want of a book!
讀到149頁。這本書太寫得太生動了，不是常看得直點頭，就是由衷地笑了。
The descriptions throughout were really great, and it makes me sad that I didn't read it in the original Chinese, because I feel like I can almost imagine them in Chinese and the effect is almost stronger than what I feel from reading the English translation.
However, overall, I found myself a little distracted while reading this book.
I know it's satire and the characters are portrayed as caricatures to emphasize this satire.
But on a personal level, I don't really like exaggerated or caricatural characters.
I don't find them compelling, even when I know their function is for social commentary.
I guess I see the value in this book but it just didn't really speak to me.
方鴻漸年輕自命不凡，實質得過且過，不但拿了一個假文憑，也從沒為事業努力過。面對蘇小姐，他選擇做道義上的懦夫；遇到周小姐，他沒有作出堅持便放棄。也許，生活磨平了他的棱角，他決定湊合，娶了孫小姐，然後開始了一段為生活而妥協並充滿吵鬧的婚姻。其實，我越看越討厭方鴻漸，恨他軟弱無能，不求改變。個人認為他的每況越下絕對是咎由自取的。我曾經不期然地想如果方鴻漸娶的人是最鐘愛的周小姐，他還會認同婚姻像一座圍城，城外的人想進去，城裏的人出來嗎？其實，我覺得作者不但用詞很神，更神的是時至今日我們在社會上仍然看到不少方鴻漸的化身。另外，書中對吃葡萄的人的分析也很有意思。”有兩種人吃葡萄的人，第一種人從每串裡最好的開始吃，每吃一顆就是所剩的葡萄裡最好的一顆；第二種人從每串裡最壞的開始吃，每吃一顆就是所剩的葡萄裡最壞的一顆，問題是你如何看這兩種吃葡萄的人。 答案是：“照例第一種人應該樂觀，因為他吃到的總是最好的，第二種人應該悲觀，因為他吃到的總是最壞的。不過事實適得其反，緣故是第二種人還有希望，而第一種人只剩下回憶。 ”
The book was written a long time ago but everything said is still valid today, no matter it's about being trapped in marriage or life. The story is full of very mean but humourous inner thoughts of characters and hypocrisy among different characters is revealed so nakedly that it fears me. A very faithful and honest depiction of a troubled generation in modern China.
A decent satire. Really liked the sense of humour, but the storyline was far too slow for me. It’s a shame - I can see why this novel is so praised and I understand a lot of it but I just don’t think you can truly “get” this unless you’re native Chinese or were living during that era. Maybe once I have a lot more context I’ll revisit this.
Another great book by a Chinese author! The two I've read have both been a gritty look at real and often humble life. Essentially it boils down to existential thought and that's what I loved about this book and the trend I've come across in Chinese literature.
Miss Su’s long time admirer, Zhao Xinmei, conspires to have Fang Hongjian given an offer of employment at Sanlu University in the countryside far away from Shanghai – and Miss Su. When Miss Su is rejected by Fang Hongjian following a moonlight kiss in the garden certain unsavory details of Fang Hongjian’s past are revealed to Miss Tang and she breaks off her relationship with him by returning his love letters.
Bereft of his benefactor, Fang Hongjian is ousted, but not before a hasty engagement with a young Miss Sun Roujia, a family friend of Zhao Xinmei.
The original version (in Chinese) is much better/funnier than the translated version.
