https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/463378.The_Sword_of_the_Lictor
Nor is the main character Severian particularly uninteresting or difficult to like.My main concern, as well as my questionable joy, is in the author's requirement that we take not just an active role in the reconstruction of this tale, but that even a deconstruction, a literary analysis, a creative interpretation, a fuck-you-sideways until you bleed from your eyeballs reinterpretation, might not quite be enough for us to reconcile story elements from action elements from reflective elements from literary elements.I'm assuming, just from my own idiocy, that this is a 4-d topographical map and I must rip out the pages according to odd-numbered reoccurring themes, plaster them together in the shape of the Claw of the Conciliator, and then read the text while standing on my head.
I can't deal with this anymore. I need books where I can actually care what's going on.
POTENTIAL SPOILERS, READ NO FURTHER IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW DETAILS.I continue to be drawn into the world of Urth, which is lush and fascinating.
But once there, he proceeds to make love to another woman (who turns out to be the boss’s wife) as if Dorcas doesn’t exist.
Add to that his eidetic memory and I’m starting to play with the idea that he’s not entirely human.So, I don’t know what to think of this guy, but I am still fascinated by the world—the alien life forms that feature, the strange mixture of space-faring & medieval technology, wondering how Earth became Urth.
I am by no means competent to review this literary masterpiece, but — having read the litany of confusion on the review pages of this volume and its companions — I wish to state the following, simply in order to be helpful.1.
It is impossible to understand The Book of the New Sun on a first reading.
He loves to play with symbols, and he does it on practically every page of this book; but most of the time he does it playfully, as a literary conceit, and for the entertainment of the best-read among his readers.
Nemam da podelim ništa mudro osim generalnog beskrajnog uživanja u tekstu. Knjiga Novog sunca je ozbiljna potvrda onog da smisao putovanja nije u dolasku na cilj nego u samom putovanju (tako da, ko ne voli digresije...) a uz ovaj deo bih samo pomenula kako baš treba biti car pa u skromnu uokvirenu priču skrkati i predanja o Aleksandrovom rođenju i Romula i Rema i Moglija ali sve tako da se zapravo referiše na okvirnu priču (tj. ceo roman) i ima veze s njom a istovremeno funkcioniše i kao zaokruženi narativ.
I don’t have too much to say about it, but I enjoyed it at the same level as the previous two.
The previous book had a couple things that drove me nuts, and this book did not.
On the other hand, there really weren’t any secondary characters in this book that I felt attached to like I had in the previous book.
By the end of the book, he’s lost both.
(hide spoiler)]This book continues to create more questions, but it also answered or hinted at answers to quite a few things.
On to the fourth book!
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Gene Wolfe’s The Sword of the Lictor essentially contains no plot, but it’s the best plotless book I’ve ever read.
The passionate pair in love’s embrace are at least equally willing to postpone the stabbing, if not more so… In life it is not the same…”I wish I could be there with Severian as he climbs down the steep cliff overhung with a waterfall and embedded with the fossils of earth’s lost architecture, and explores the round metal building that we recognize (but he doesn’t) as a spaceship… I’d love to tell you more and to discuss what it all means (there’s so much symbolism here), but then you’d miss the jaw-dropping, eye-widening, brain-expanding experience for yourself.
Wolfe introduces a lot of new words and he uses them in a completely different context than their meaning, the note at the end of the book explains some of the words and the context with which Wolfe uses them.Well now that is off my chest, let me get down to the things which I liked and did not like about this book.Some of the weak points of the book are1.Too much work for the reader2.Story seems to drag.Some of the strong points of the book are1.Satisfying conclusion.Let me elaborate on the above points now1.Too much work for the readerAlthough Wolfe warns us at the end of each book in the series through Severians' voice that this is not easy journey and if we don't complete it, he does not have any issues with the reader, but still he expects a lot from his reader because not everyone is well versed in Catholicism or Theology.
By the beginning of The Sword of the Lictor (1982), the third novel in Gene Wolfe's unique science fiction masterpiece The Urth of the New Sun, Dorcas and Severian have finally reached Thrax, City of Windowless Rooms, where Severian has become the "master of chains," the lictor of the Vincula, the prison shaft bored into the side of the mountain, along both sides of which the shackled prisoners await torture or death.
Possibly more like 4.5 stars -- but I'll round up, since I rounded down for the last book. This book does not have the minor pacing issues that were my only issue with book 2, so it's definitely deserving of that extra half-star.In any case, this series continues to be consistently excellent. Can't wait to start the next one.
I loved it even though I didn't fully understand it.
4.5 stars. Part three of one of the best Science Fiction/Fantasy series ever (after The Shadow of the Torturer and The Claw of the Conciliator). The Book of the New Sun Tetralogy is a superior achievement. Highly Recommended!! Winner British Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1983)Winner: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (1983)Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1983)Nominee: British Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1983)Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1983)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1983)
http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
There are many fine legends about swords: the legendary sword of King Arthur, sometimes attributed w
More fundamentally, the reader constantly feels that the realities underneath the surface of the story are unfathomable -- one might scratch a bit deeper in a second or third reading, but Wolfe demonstrates that there is always more than meets the eye.
The abyssal depths of reality can never be fully ensnared by our cognitive nets.That said, I can't tell if I'm just getting used to Wolfe's style, but this third installment feels slightly more comprehensible -- at least at the surface level -- than the previous volumes.
But as I started preparing to read the third instalment I read up on The Book of the New Sun and was astonished to learn that it did all actually make sense and that details in Book 1 are linked to details in Book 3; for example I never expected (view spoiler)[ that Severian would encounter Baldanders and Dr Talos again and simply loved the whole showdown between them.
This third book meanders more than the first two did and there are beautiful passages that seem a bit unnecessarily long (such as Severian wandering the mountains) but these are punctuated with such awesome incidents and revelations that it's a really great read.
There is some seriously funky unreliable narrator shit going on here.
Classics and all that.Many of the descriptions are vivid and wonderful but I just can't decide if these books are terrible or just too artsy for me.
I'm going to have to actually read some criticisms after I finish the next one.
Reading these books makes me feel drugged.
I need a nap.There's lots of neat things going on - but most are just hints and never really fleshed out enough to make me care.TWO AND A HALF STARSBecause I just don't know.

These books are really interesting and make me think, and I like all the cool scifi stuff. Severian is a good main character, because he doesn't act out of selfish interests but always does what he thinks is the right thing to do, which means I can always cheer for him.
Technically a re-read, but I'm logging it here so I get credit.
This book is very much the middle act of the series, with Severian mostly on his own discovering more and more about the world he inhabits, and symbolically losing pieces of his identity along the way. It can feel a little random-encountery until you step back and see the thematic ties between every step of the way.
Book 2 of The Book of the New Sun left me feeling shaky and uncertain about finishing the series.
After languishing for weeks unread, I finally opened those first pages.I must say, this is hands down the best book of the series so far.
The ideas are strange and compelling (though one thing that happens right at the end felt inconsistent with the lore of the world he set up).About halfway through this book, I realized what made the series feel so slow and aimless.
There isn't really an antagonist, so there isn't a clear end goal.I'm definitely curious to see where the final book takes us.
At the beginning of this, the third and penultimate part of 'The Book of the New Sun', journeyman torturer Severian has reached the city of Thrax and assumed his position as lictor ('he who binds'), but once again he is fated to betray his guild when he shows pity for a condemned client.This frees him up to head north through the mountains towards the war, where he intends to enlist in the Autarch's army, and to search out the Pelerines so that he can return the sacred Claw of the Conciliator to its rightful owners.Before he can do either of those things though, he must brave one deadly encounter after another, from the red-skinned, alien beast the alzabo, which assumes the identity of the victims it feasts on, to the resurrected two-headed tyrant Typhon, master of Urth and beyond in eons passed, then finally with an old companion, monstrous in size and ambition.So this is the book in which Severian truly becomes a hero of Urth, though he still has no idea of his own significance, despite the hints he has received.
Of the series, I'd have to say this is my favorite. He tosses in a story competition that, like most of Wolfe's stories-within-the-story, appear simply good-natured fun until you think about what's happening and how it relates to the overall story arc. Somehow the action and dialogues that Severian finds himself in are well matched with the deep introspection that strikes when you least expect it, and it's in this volume of the series that the magic of what Wolfe has been weaving starts to gain a life you didn't know it had.
Book 3 in one of my favorite stories ever!
If you have come this far, might as well finish it off, because you're halfway there (unless, of course, you count the Books of the Long and Short Sun, but we'll get to those later).If you haven't read these yet, back up and check out the first one.
The writing is very dense, in that charmingly classical way Gene Wolfe has, but worth diving into.
This is the point in the books where the world goes full bonkers, and we start to get gods, aliens, and space involved.
It gets a bit vague.
Beguiling. These books are strange. The character's quests are made of dreams, half-rememberings and the twilight. The vocabulary is exotic and abstruse and the book weaves a spell under the fading Urth Sun in a land of half-forgotten technologies. scatterings of aliens and a medieval milieu that represent humanity in only sidelong glances.
Absolutely fantastic. Certain scenes will remain vivid in my memory for years to come. On to the fourth and final book in the series.
As Severian says, "the greatest adventures are those that act most strongly upon our minds" a masterpiece Gene Wolfe has a gift and the new sun books prove it
Clearer structure, less obfuscation, & spaceships make everything better. I'm on the home stretch!
I guess I'm stopping here with this series, at least for now. I've mostly enjoyed this but have lost interest in the story and just want to read other stuff.
