https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128073.The_Power_of_the_Dog
Ma anche più profondo, perspicace, sensibile: è proprio lui che conquista il cuore femminile del romanzo, quello della vedova Rose (il marito dottore, generoso e alcolista, si è impiccato incapace di superare un’umiliazione che non ha mai confessato a nessuno aver ricevuto proprio da Phil Burbank), madre di un adolescente, Peter, taciturno e solitario che viene facilmente irriso e bullizzato (da Phil Burbank incluso).Frederic S.
1903.Rose si trasferisce a vivere al ranch, con gran disappunto iroso di Phil, che non è neppure stato invitato al matrimonio, celebrato in riservatezza e quasi segreto.E, quindi, tra moglie e marito non mettere un fratello.
A recent reissue of a 1967 ground-breaking Western novel, a high-pressurized psychological study of two brothers, George and Phil, as well as of the former's new wife Rose, who before the marriage was a widow, and her 17-year-old son, "Miss Nancy," which is brother Phil's nickname for Peter, the sensitive, "sissy" son.
I will say though that the novel reminds me of a merciless, blustering bully I knew growing up who expressed an absolute disgust with gay men, so much so, he said, that he refused to eat hot dogs, bananas or mayo.
…Something aching and terrible of the west is caught forever on his pages, and the most compelling and painful of these books is The Power of the Dog, a work of literary art.The main characters are two middle-aged brothers, Phil and George, who are running a large family ranch, and a widow and her son, Rose and Peter, who move in after she marries the more kindly brother.
Peter turns out an odd secretive boy, who does poorly in sports and so avoids other kids and spends his time reading his father’s medical books, studying nature, and pursuing artistic endeavors like making paper flowers.
George, on the other hand, is a bit of a duff.
Poor George is definitely in his brother's shadow but seems very content to be there.When their lives intersect with a beautiful town woman, mother to an incredibly bright and sensitive boy, the balance between the brothers is irrevocably upset.
Nothing that shallow plot-wise happens, but when this woman and her boy enter the brothers' world, frightening things begin to happen.
The book reminds me of her "That Old Ace in the Hole" in a way, but this old beauty is encased in psychological tension that thrilled me.
Tensions surface when George marries a widow and brings her, along with her sissy son to the ranch to live.
And, in that Afterword she says, “…a psychological study freighted with drama and tension, unusual in dealing with a topic rarely discussed in that period – repressed homosexuality displayed as homophobia in masculine ranch world." I’ve no doubt that this novel influenced her short story, “Brokeback Mountain”, which was adapted as a critically acclaimed movie in 2005.I was mesmerized by this tragic and complex character study as it builds heightening tension from beginning to its karmic conclusion.
E di orgoglio, viene quasi naturale aggiungere, un orgoglio che impedisce a Phil di guardare dentro a se stesso con onestà, a George a comprendere da dove arriverà il pericolo.Ma oltre alla storia, che si rivela man mano che ci si inoltra fra le pagine, e la vicenda, più complessa di quello che potrebbe apparire (pertanto molto poco facilmente etichettabile, tanto è bene architettata e congegnata), a colpire è lo stile di Savage: asciutto, duro, capace al tempo stesso di uno scavo psicologico profondo, di affrontare temi già allora scabrosi e di comprendere che per liberare il cuore dalla spada è necessario guardarsi dalle unghie del cane, dai quei pericoli che ogni giorno la vita ci mette davanti: anche quando i pericoli sembrano inesistenti, anche quando il pericolo siamo noi stessi.E a scuotere il lettore, se non dovesse bastare l’inattesa conclusione del romanzo, si aggiunge anche quella che ancora Annie Proulx definisce il materiale grezzo che fuoriesce dall’autobiografia di Savage e che viene usato per i personaggi del Potere del Cane in maniera sorprendente.
Thank you to Goodreader Mel for her unrevealing yet irresistible review; she is right—it is best to go into this book blind.If I owned a copy—and I'll probably end up buying it to read it again—I would put it on my shelf beside a book I've read three times and own two copies of, John Williams's Stoner.
And if I owned them (and again, I may end up buying these treasures), I would accompany The Power of the Dog and Stoner with John Williams's Butcher's Crossing and all of Kent Haruf's books and all of Mary Lawson's.

The people are drawn true, most eccentric, therefore all-the-more true characters as they play out a drama on the high plains of a cattle ranch Utah right after the war.
Two bachelor brothers have stayed on the ranch that their sophisticated, eastern parents had migrated to, then left to the sons as they returned to civilization.
Phil had nothing against the right kind of Jews, Jews of intellect and talent, so long as he didn’t have to mix with them.”p.253: “Some boys- bored, disappointed in what they had hoped to be a more exciting sport- tortured or clubbed the creatures, and even that was sometimes strangely unsatisfying.
Niente di meglio che iniziare il nuovo anno con un “bellissimo”.
Manca niente.
Una bella storia semplice raccontata con confidenziale, sobria e maschile eleganza.
Una ambientazione da immersione totale; nell’America montana del west profondo.
Personaggi carichi di fascino (i due "vecchi", la madre e il padre, su tutti).
Tensione narrativa che sale impercettibilmente fino a prendere il lettore alla gola.
Un tema di fondo che affiora piano piano; un tema di quelli che richiedono coraggio, affrontato raramente ai suoi tempi e per lo più malamente oggi.Una conclusione fredda, perfetta.Non si può dire altro senza rischiare di rovinare la sorpresa.
Foreboding.Reading the reviews after I finished, I realized that people have different takes, as expected, but the timing, the subconscious explorations Savage almosts encourages with what he doesn't spell out, are priceless IF you are lucky enough to let the author throw the punch himself.
I would suggest that when you get to the ending -- the powerful didn't-see-that-one-coming ending (so beautifully set up and yet so surprising) -- pause and ponder the possibilities that Savage sets up, the psychological underpinnings, the writing so as-if-you-were-there, then let the weight of it settle.
My Favorite Book of The Year So Far!(Pile of rotting fence posts on a Montana ranch)“Under there gophers were safe from badgers who wished to eat them whole.
… It was a sport of ranch boys to rout out the gophers, the cottontails, the mice - to exhaust themselves lifting pole after pole to expose the hiding place of some terrified creature grown too confident.
I say that because of the great landscape descriptions, the deep loneliness of the characters, and the many crushed and broken dreams.
The Power of the Dog by Thomas Savage creates an unnerving tension in the opening chapters of the novel.On the surface, Phil Burbank is a successful rancher.
Mr. and Mrs. Burbank left the ranch in the charge of their two sons in 1900, taking residence in a Salt Lake City hotel.George failed at college, while Phil excelled there.
George, oblivious to Phil's tactics, is unaware that Phil secretly torments Rose to the point of keeping her in a constant state of terror.Young Peter becomes a pivotal character in Savage's enthralling novel of psychological insight.
Probabilmente la cosa migliore che ho letto quest'anno.Bellissima pure la postfazione di Annie Proulx di cui cito una tra le frasi più significative:"Savage ebbe la capacità di scrivere un romanzo avvincente, carico di tensione, usando questi elementi tratti dalla storia familiare.
Ma una cosa è avere in dotazione questo straordinario materiale grezzo, un’altra riuscire a cucirne insieme i pezzi e ricavarne una storia avvincente, classica, capace di fissare per sempre un luogo e un evento nell’immaginazione del lettore."Del libro non dirò nulla, se non che la frase che riporto nel titolo è chiave di lettura.S-P-L-E-N-D-I-D-O.
The Power of the Dog, like Hud, is a tense family drama taking place on a cattle ranch in a relatively modern (in this case, the 1920s) western setting, featuring two men who are diametrically at odds, with a skinny teenage boy and a mother figure between them.
It's very good, but Thomas Savage's novel is on a whole other level of excellence.The Power of the Dog centers around bachelor brothers and wealthy ranch partners Phil and George Burbank, both in the neighborhood of forty.
An almost overlooked treasure. I enjoyed how it ended. Surprising and powerful!
Ma Savage ci trae in inganno ed a sprazzi, sempre cogliendoci di sorpresa, esce dallo sguardo ammirato della comunità per farci entrare nella mente malefica di Phil; senza narratori intermediari,ci mette in presa diretta con i suoi pensieri altezzosi, sprezzanti e razzisti: indiani, ebrei, donne, e suo fratello George sono sullo stesso piano, sono a lui inferiori e da manipolare a suo piacimento.Le sfumature dei personaggi sono disegnati da mano di maestro, una vera galleria di tipi umani tra cui, il dottore disperato in una cittadina smorta, nata nello slancio di speranza che crea la terra buona, abbandonata in fretta e costellata di resti di vita morta: tetti che crollano, scarpe spaiate, bambole buttate lì - Rose, la mogliettina volonterosa del dottore il cui adorabile sorriso verrà inesorabilmente spento, il loro figlio Pete, enigmatico e pericoloso come un serpente silenzioso.
A real rediscovered classic for me from the 60's. A dark and brutal mash-up of Cormac McCarthy and Annie Proulx that kept me absolutely hooked. Will be seeking out more books by this author forthwith :)
Romanzo solido come pochi altri (a tratti sembra quasi di leggere "Stoner"), sporco dentro in modo onesto come solo un vero western riesce ad esserlo, ma infinitamente struggente e tormentato nel suo dipanarsi.
Favorite read of 2018 but also going on my favorite list. What's that, "loose lips sink ships?" Therefore, I will say nothing in fear I would give away the characters and the book. Read it for yourself. You will either love the opening sentence or be repulsed.
Two middle-aged brothers run a large successful cattle ranch in Montana.
George is good and Phil is evil.
I could stop right there and say if you love a well-written book set in the West, read this one because it's one of the most compelling books I've read.
To be fair to you, I have to mention that it absolutely shredded my nerves.
The most well-drawn character is the evil brother, and Phil's gleeful cruelty, huge ego, fractured view of the world, and absolute brilliance drive the book.
He's so mean I almost had to stop reading, but I'm so glad I kept with it.
Set on a Montana ranch in 1924-25, it tells of a domestic drama involving two brothers and the tensions that quickly develop when one of them marries a widow with a teenage son.
It's worth mentioning that she takes up the theme of homosexuality in a Western setting in her "Brokeback Mountain," which is included in her terrific collection of Wyoming stories "Close Range."I recommend "The Power of the Dog" to readers interested in Western fiction, Montana ranch life in the early 20th century, psychological studies, and domestic drama that focuses on the interplay of family members' strengths and weaknesses.
Of the books I have read in the past 6 months this one is easily the champion...with a conclusion that is so fitting and so ASTOUNDING my mind was literally blown. Amazing novel. Read it, read it, read it!
This was a slow, tense burn, and then – whoa! - the last line blows everything apart.
I think he's very tired.""I'll be right down."When he came down, he stood in the doorway of the kitchen, and he addressed her as "Mother," not "Rose." The word in his mouth sounded so odd, so formal that she turned from the stove where she boiled water for tea."Yes, Peter?"He had apparently just completed combing his yellow hair, for he still bore in his right hand the black pocket comb he always carried, and before she spoke again he dragged his thumb over the teeth, and then again and again.
She found the sound chilling, "Peter, please."He stood looking past her, at the opposite wall.
I was all set to give this book a 4 star rating, then changed it to 5 after I read the last page, then thought about it some more and finally decided that for me, 4 stars is correct.
The real west, with it's loneliness caused by both landscape and the type of people who live there, the stereotypical "cowboy" type of man, comes through this book to skewer the ideas of what we have come to expect.
Then George marries a widow with a teen-age son, and secrets and resentments come to the fore with Phil, who makes their life miserable with subtle comments and actions.
I devoured this and loved it.I never could quite figure out where this was heading, or going to end up.A story that will stick me me for a while. I need some time to think it over...
Ero partita gasatissima con questo libro sulla scia di una recensione assai positiva ("La Lettura", 19/2/2017), e spesso quando è così poi va a finire in una delusione.Dalla sintesi della trama, che potete leggere al link qua sopra, me lo sarei immaginato più asciutto, più crudo, più essenziale, più claustrofobico: il ranch che diventa una specie di "prigione", per questi 4 personaggi costretti a convivere in un clima di sempre maggiore tensione.Invece, secondo me, troppi flashback, troppe spiegazioni, troppi dettagli su personaggi principali e secondari; in questo caso, stranamente (perché spesso mi lamento in senso opposto), invece che contribuire a rendere più "vera" e viva la scena, l'hanno resa troppo dispersiva, distraendomi dal dramma principale.
A knock-out, tour de force novel of the American West.
Literally takes your breath away, from the graphic first lines through to the explosive last lines.
Set in the 1920s, written in the 1960s, and just as relevant and insightful in the 2010s.
How this novel escaped from being required reading in classrooms around the country or on lists of the best gay novels escapes me and is even more tragic than the tale it weaves.
The brothers Burbank, the widow Rose and her sissy son Peter, and the mountains of Montana will haunt your dreams, long after you're done reading.
Brutal and beautiful look at life on a Montana ranch in the 1920s. If I ever need to simulate an anxiety attack, I'll think about what happens when the governor comes over for dinner. One of the most powerful books I've ever read (and it has nothing to do with dogs).
