https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82121.The_Friends_of_Eddie_Coyle
And what will happen to Eddie once people hear he's a fink?Elmore Leonard called this the best crime novel ever written.
I figured I should give it a read.The Friends of Eddie Coyle is a lot more challenging than you'd think a slim crime novel would be.
Since it's mostly dialogue, it's hard to keep the characters straight at times and the only characters with any degree of substance are Eddie Coyle and Detective Foley.I wouldn't say it's the greatest crime novel ever written but The Friends of Eddie Coyle is definitely worth your time.
He has guys that he hangs out with and guys that he works with, and cops that he negotiates with, but none of them really gives a good goddamn about Eddie and anyone of them would sell him out for a tired dime.Of course Eddie's not above dealing his "friends" either.
Eddie's convinced that he really can't do the time and he's looking to make a trade with the authorities that will get him off the hook.Eddie's been supplying guns to a group of bank robbers.
I suoi crimini sono così poca roba che è costretto ad arrotondare facendo l’informatore.Molto bello anche l’uso delle maschere nella rapine, tutti i rapinatori indossano maschere e vestiti uguali, cambiandoli da una rapina all’altra.Eddie Coyle non ha amici, come sempre succede nel suo mondo.
Memorabile l’interpretazione di Mitchum che rende a meraviglia questo piccolo criminale, così infimo che non ha neppure diritto al fatidico viale del tramonto, per lui si tratta soltanto di un sentiero verso il tramonto.E come non pensare a quel magnifico film di John Huston, appunto "Fat City-Città amara", che uscì l'anno prima di quello di Yates, e ha atmosfera così simile?!Richard Jordan interpreta il poliziotto Foley.
When guys like Elmore Leonard are calling it the greatest crime novel ever written, that’s a high bar to clear.
The cops are less interested in seeing justice done than they are in getting the guy they’ve currently got by the balls into giving them someone higher in the food chain to get them to relax their grip a bit.
The guys who make their living from crime are aware that anyone in a pinch is a potential rat no matter how solid they’ve been in the past.
3.5/ Es la primera novela que leo de Higgins y su estilo directo, casi sin narración, solo con diálogos me ha gustado. La trama está muy bien, muestra sin ningún apego tanto a los malos como a los buenos; como si estuviera explicando algo sin importancia.
The Friends of Eddie Coyle is a solid crime novel, in which suspicion is normal, and nothing is glamourous. It takes place mostly, but not entirely, in dialogue, which is amazingly well written.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The police in turn to get to the root of the crime tip someone else about Eddie to extract more information about this crime, all the while keeping Coyle on the book.When things take a turn for worse Eddie wants to save himself but also wants to be loyal to his so called "friends" because of a bad experience in past.
The worst thing is that everyone knows that Coyle is facing jail time, and soon he finds himself in the middle of this mess.One of the strong point of this book is its dialogues.
"The best crime novel ever written." - Elmore Leonard"What I can't get over is that so good a first novel was written by the fuzz." - Norman MailerGeorge Higgins was an assistant U.S. Attorney for Massachusets when he set out to document the new reality of hardboiled criminal life in and around Boston with the story of Eddie Coyle.
Told mostly in conversation the plot loosely revolves around petty criminal Eddie Coyle facing a sentencing trial and working to maneuver himself out of it with the assistance of a cop acquaintance.
The textbook.
Higgins's The Friends of Eddie Coyle is watching someone get stabbed in the back that should never have been turned in the first place by all of the low life's that Boston had to offer.
Maybe I'm just cynical after reading The Friends of Eddie Coyle because the hard bitten criminals he already knew weren't such nice guys.
Don't trust people with names like Little John or Big James either.
The best thing about the book is watching the double faces on the slick words that comes out of everyone but Eddie's mouths.
He must have been referring to my two assassins who discussed things like poetry and history in between whacking people, but I hadn't meant to ape Pulp Fiction at all.
Crime stories wandering happily away from their plots is at least as old as The Big Sleep: Chandler was an essentially lyrical writer, more interested in the chatter of a guy working the front desk, or in the non-sound that an empty room makes, than he ever was in plot.The Friends of Eddie Coyle does all that beside-the-point stuff better than any crime novel I know.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Recently I got my hands on the movie "The Friends of Eddie Coyle" by Peter Yates and with Robert Mitchum as the leading star.
I've been a long time Mitchum's fan.
I can honestly say I've watched all his movies (memorable late afternoons and nights at the Portuguese Cinemateca in Lisbon a long time ago...).
Along with "The Night of The Hunter" and "The Lusty Man" (one of Nick Ray's masterpieces), it's still Mitchum's best film, as far I'm concerned.
I hadn't seen the movie for more than 20 years.
Higgins's novel THE FRIENDS OF EDDIE COYLE, I finally got around to reading the book, which has a reputation for greatness commensurate with the film's.
This story, about a range of criminals, each connected in some way with a small-time crook named Eddie Coyle, and the law enforcement figures who oppose them go about their activities during a brief period of time.
This book makes me very much want to read Higgins's other works.
(And interpolated kudos to whoever thought to have Robert Mitchum play Eddie Coyle.
It's a grimy, defeatist, working class and middle-management kind of world; structurally tragic, but with the catharsis surgically removed.All that makes it feel real--and Higgins certainly had the background to know whereof he wrote--but too much fatalism would spoil any sense of fun, and so what this book has in place of charm is snappiness: great, funny, clever dialogue.
Sometimes people are lied to, but more than that, they often make wrong but understandable assumptions.
That complexity is, maybe even more than the dialogue or the tone, what I take away from the book: the sense of endless and almost random collision that Higgins captures in a series of stiletto-sharp scenes.
Supposedly, some authors and fans savor this tough, depressing story and that's their prerogative. I did not enjoy this choppy, belittling, bad guy saga in the least. 0 of 10 stars
“This life’s hard, but it’s harder if you’re stupid.” Hard-boiled detectives, low lighting, and cigar smoke are what come to mind for many when they hear 'noir'. In my view, noir doesn't require them though. What defines noir for me is tragedy. But not in the traditional Greek Tragedy sense where our character falls from great heights, with potentially a really nice soliloquy before their fall. No, in noir we still have the fall... but it's typically a fall from a curb. Perhaps into the open tr
Hard-boiled detectives, low lighting, and cigar smoke are what come to mind for many when they hear 'noir'.
In my view, noir doesn't require them though.
What defines noir for me is tragedy.
No, in noir we still have the fall...
This is a story about a bad man who sells guns to other bad men; but honestly, the plot doesn't matter.
Just people living their lives and trying to screw over whomever they need to in order to survive.
Probably 80% of this book is people talking.
For the most part, this book is all people talking about other people, sometimes while doing stuff to move the plot along.
Higgins published The Friends of Eddie Coyle in 1970 after writing 14 novels over 17 years, which never made it off the slush pile.
Talent plus work is no guarantee that a writer will succeed;it happens just some times, not all the time.
I don't know if he met someone, like an editor or an agent, who was able to publish and market the book or what, but it happened.
After this first one, he went on to publish 26 other books, about one a year, until he died at the age of 60.
Well, I've read this before and liked it, but re-reading it now after having also re-read a bunch of other crime/noir books published before and after this one, it seems overrated, certainly not one of the "four or five best crime novels ever written." Lehane, in is introduction to the 40th anniversary edition raves about the dialog, which is 80 percent of the book.
Leaving aside the quantity of it and how that works narratively, I'd say it's great dialog if you like reading wiretap transcripts, which is perhaps the inspiration for the patter.
Stark/Westlake, with his Parker series, nailed a lot of this terrain before Higgins, and was no slouch with the dialog himself.
Excellent book containing 95% dialog. Mob, guns and MOPARS. I think that was one of my favorite things in this book visualizing that $4000 Road Runner hauling machine guns and grocery sacks full of sizzling hot pistols in her trunk. Should have been read in one setting as it is a short book that moves along at a real good pace but a guy has to sleep & work sometimes.
(No glamour here, just a bunch of violent working stiffs doing [illegal] jobs.) In fact, the book is simply A LOT of dialogue, but I wouldn't have it any other way.Similarly, there a couple of other scenes - long-running conversations between a federal agent, who uses Eddie as an occasional 'snitch,' and the agent's supervisor - which sound absolutely authentic.It looks like (per other reviews) this novel will be an acquired taste, but I think it was plausible fiction in the best sense - bitterly and coldy realistic, yet a quietly stylized mean and lean little crime drama.*Lastly, I absolutely loved that crime novelist Dennis Lehane composed the introduction for this 40th anniversary edition of Eddie.
If this was the first ever audiobook I’d listened to then I could quite comfortably say that it would put me off the idea of listening to books instead of reading them.
Every time you got into the plot you were confused as to who was speaking as the monotonous drone doesn’t change throughout regardless of who is speaking; a child, a woman, a gun dealer, police officers.
It’s basically split; Audiobook 1/5, novel 4/5 but my enjoyment because of the former was 2/5.If you enjoy this try: Listening to something with a pulse?
A gritty, realistic crime novel that shows there is no honor among thieves. It has great dialogue that makes you feel like you're eavesdropping on real people. This book was made into the 1973 film of the same name, starring Robert Mitchum. Worth reading.
I watched the film first, which may not be a good idea - it is hard to not imagine the strong cast mouthing the dialog as you read the book.
And kind of a sly, nasty comment on Higgins in there (praises the dialog as ground breaking, and then suggests that Higgins never did another novel as well, no matter how hard he tried - and that he descended into a "parody" of his own writing style in an attempt to get there!).Both are excellent, and different.
But the short chapters, to the point dialog, and characters are what drive this excellent story!
Even with the novel being dialog driven, you get such a sense of 1970's Boston, and organized crime (albeit, small time in many ways) there.
It's obvious why this is considered such a classic.
When an author makes it look this easy, so fluid, and written with so much confidence, it can often be overlooked for its deceptive simplicity.
I was amazed that the story is told almost entirely through dialogue.
Not just a little bit, but some chapters, outside a quick setup paragraph, are exclusively dialogue.
And some pretty kick-ass dialogue, I might add.Quick and efficient with no fat, yet there are still a number of storylines that come together.
I said it earlier: Higgins makes it look easy.
A modern crime classic.
This was a good one - more like 4.5 stars.The plot revolves around a series of bank robberies where the bank manager's family is held hostage.
Eddie Coyle supplies guns for the gang doing the robberies and is wavering over whether to shop either the gang or other customers of his gun supplier to the cops in order to plea bargain for a case that he is up for sentence on.The book is unusual in that most of it is very realistic dialogue - that makes it a quick and easy read.
There are also a couple of unexpected twists in the plot that make it a gripping read right to the end.
Published in 1970, The Friends of Eddie Coyle took the crime novel to a sad, unglamorous place.
The real art is surviving, because in this world, everyone has ratted, is ratting or will rat.The Friends of Eddie Coyle is about a man, and men, playing on the fine edge.
In the book, we're left to guess at the subtleties of Eddie's mood, while in the film we are privileged to see the world-weary resignation on Robert Mitchum's *face* -- and it speaks volumes.
Here are some examples: “always a pleasure to do a favor for a friend with a good memory”.A couple of guys are watching a panhandler work the streets by talking to people as the try to rush past: “It is harder to refuse a man a quarter after you have listened to him for a while, and noticed him.
Not impossible, but harder.”A couple more random snippets that stuck: “It’s like you’re in a movie, and the other guy’s in the movie with you, but he knows you’re both in a movie, and what comes next.
And you don’t.” “This life’s hard, but it’s harder when you’re stupid”.
Higgins doesn't waste his ink on intricate descriptive passages or on overwrought exposition - the characters don't tell us why they do what they do, they just do it, and you can almost smell the cold breath of the cons and crooks as they blaze through their stories.
Does anything ever change in this racket?""Hey Foss," the prosecutor said, taking Clark by the arm, "of course it changes.
It changes every day.""It's hard to notice, though," Clark said."It is," the prosecutor said, "it certainly is."
Writer, eater, traveler, Antony Bourdain has called this the single greatest crime novel written in the English language.
While I'm not 100% sure I would anoint it the greatest of all time, it is certainly in the running.
When you read the book, you immediately think of all the classic gangster movies from the past 30+ years.
This book had a hand in creating all of that.
Gunrunner, Eddie Coyle certainly travels in a lot of circles, but I'm not sure he has many friends.
We'll never have another book like this again, but we can hope authors keep trying to top it.

