https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178357.SantaLand_Diaries
I highly recommend you listen to Sedaris read the Santaland Diaries aloud. You can find it in the "This American Life" archives. His voice adds so much to this already funny story.
This story had me rolling on the floor it was so funny. Who knew what went on in SantaLand? This is inspired. This was a story in 'Holidays on Ice' and I have seen a one-man show of this that sold me on it because he was amazing. Long live Crumpet!
2.5 με 3 αστέρια. .ειναι ενα πολυ συντομο ιστορικο καποιων αστειων περιστατικων που συνεβησαν στον συγγραφεα οταν δουλεψε σαν ..ξωτικο στο μεγαλυτερο πολυκαταστημα της νεας υορκης(macy's)..καποια πολυ αστεια περιστατικα, παιδια,γινεις,φωτογραφιες, καλαντα, ενας χαμος..ευχαριστο αλλα ως εκει..
Re-re-read.
Re-re-read.
Re-re-read.
I think I have a problem with this essay.
The more you work the less you think.
That's what I thought before thinking less.
I gave leaflets on the streets dressed like a french fry.
Yet, I found more than a job.
I fell in love with a nice girl.
His name was Olympus.
The Taco girl -that lousy bitch- told me how she needed to focus more on her life, looking at it from different perspectives.
"You know, Olympus is the right person for helping me in that process".
And that's why I keep on reading the Diaries.
Review to come.
I couldn't any more ignore a highly positive feedback from many readers about David Sedaris's comedy skills. And Christmas from a different perspective? That sounded interesting!Unfortunately, in regard to this book, my high expectations were not totally met. There were for sure some really funny observations, comments and thoughts, but on the whole I found the humour in this collection out of non-fiction stories rather monotonous than sparking-refreshing.I hope, I'll have more luck with my next David Sedaris. Because his writing is very promising.
You can see the satirical voice Sedaris is aiming for, but for me it just wasn't quite clever enough, or witty enough, to pull of the rather mean things he says.
The final story 'Christmas is for Giving' was the other high(ish) point in the collection, taking rich middle-class American 'keeping up with the Joneses' to its logical and surrealist extreme.
It's not entirely put me off Sedaris so I'd like to read another of his story collections to see if this tone is a one-off or whether it was just that my love of Christmas blind me to its darkly comic ways.
My third book by David Sedaris (following Me Talk Pretty One Day and Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim) and my first disappointment.
The back cover of the book inaccurately labels this as memoir, when in fact only two of the six stories are auto-biographical – and, tellingly, those two are the only ones I really enjoyed.
An especially tiresome chapter is "Season’s Greetings to Our Friends and Family!!!", written in the style of one of those ghastly round robin newsletters received at Christmas.
I’d recommend You Better Not Cry: Stories for Christmas by Augusten Burroughs for a better selection of seasonal related laughter
Interesting, two books in one week.
Who THOUGHT SO!Now, I only read this because exams week is coming!
Prepare for exams by reading irrelevant books.
Yes, This is how I do it.Now, let's review this good laugh.I didn't enjoy it that much, but it's surely a good laugh before exams.Christmas, only saw it in movie.
Surely I've read about Christmas, what it is.
Now David will act as an elf in this story, the job is both hilarious and boring to fill.
That was my first book by David Sedaris, I surely want to read his other works!
The audio version (heard it first on NPR) read by Sedaris is unforgettably funny! The text version will make you laugh out loud and cause people to stare at you, but it is nothing compared to hearing Sedaris tell the story. Text alone would get 3 or 4 stars, but the audio get s 7 stars on a 5 star scale.
Pee-your-pants funny!!! This is a perfect read out-loud book...adults only!
The good people at Little, Brown and Company did you a solid by also releasing this exact same book as 'Holidays on Ice' which is awesome if you need two copies of the same book but with a different title, which is really what Christmas is all about.
I did like the first tale, the Christmas Whore tale and the final little bit, but everything else was just too, too much, especially the letter and the one-upmanship story.The Christmas Family update letter was just awful.
We have friends who send those obnoxious letters and include a heavily airbrushed studio portrait.
Those of us that are close to them know the "real story".
I want a few happy words and some Christmas cheer, not the whole unvarnished truth with a plea for character witnesses for Pete's sake!The stories Sedaris writes from a personal point of view are the most successful.
Very much front loaded so the first piece was very good and then went down hill for the others. A lot of his output is pretty mean spirited and aimed at slightly undeserving targets (Cristmas Nativity plays by 10 years old aren't that good? Really, tell me more). Although some of the framing devices are good, I felt if you took them away there wasn't that much left, and in particular nothing insightful. So, boo hiss for me.
Most hilarious Christmas tales around. You will never look at Christmas the same after exploring Sedaris's amazingly funny but somewhat dark world. I am amazed at Sedaris's guts to write down a lot of things that most of us would rather to keep to ourselves and that makes me realize what a hypocrite I am. You all must simply have this!
Meh! Not really exciting, or funny for that matter.I liked the first two stories, and had a great time reading them. They were actually funny. The of them, not so much.I'm guessing David Sedaris's humour has some moments that are just not for me.
Risible and sardonic as ever, Sedaris offers an irreverent but ultimately forgiving view onto the Christmas and the innumerable hypocrisies that make the season simultaneously heart-warming and cringe-worthy.
This is a fantastic read, and perfect to read at this time of year when it's the season of love and joy and giving and Sedaris reminds you just how much of a shower of bastards the common person (especially parents) can be at Christmas in retail.Full of laugh out loud moments and beautiful insights, with the only problem being I wanted it to be twice - if not, three times - longer.
I thought I reviewed this but I guess I forgot. Cool.
3.5 this was some funny shit
Or, read it because it popped up on my Kindle and I'd forgotten I had it.Written in 1997, this is the short story of David's experience as a 33 year old Macy's Christmas Elf. He tells stories about the people who come and see Santa, and treats us to some anecdotes about the stranger people in our society.
The people who want photos, don't want photos, the special children, the bold children, the spoiled children - but the ones that struck a chord with me were the ones who cracked jokes thinking they were completely unique, like the adults who would laughingly ask Santa for a BMW, a new husband, or a wife with bigger boobs.
The SantaLand Diaries is a gloomy anti-holiday tale for the rest of us gloomsters to get in the holiday spirit.
The first time I heard the SantaLand Diaries was in an audio recording, read by real-man-Charlie-Brown himself, David Sedaris.
This took place in a highly conservative high school, mind you.
The reception was hilarious.
That being said, I highly recommended The SantaLand Diaries in audio format, read by the author.
If you have troubles navigating the "This American Life" archives, where the audio of this story can be found, you can *whispers*...check out the youtubes.David Sedaris: SantaLand Diaries Part One, Youtube
My introduction to Sedaris was via my great friend, Craig. At the time the author was reading the SantaLand Diaries on NPR; we would listen on our respective drives home from AULA and then rehash all the crazy stories and images the next day, sometimes laughing so hard that tears rolled down our cheeks. The book (a slim one) was funny in its way but could not really equal Sedaris's dry humour on air. As we approach Christmas, I really suggest you get a copy of the tapes from NPR archives, failing that then go for a very funny read.
This should go down in history as one of the funniest stories ever written. Having been to the Macys Santaland in NYC several Christmases with my young sons only adds to the experience, as does having worked for Macys. Forget reading blah stuff like The Night before Christmas as your holiday classic! The first time I read this I was literally doubled over on the floor giggling helplessly with tears running down my face.
This is actually pretty hilarious. To think what happens at Macy*s during the holidays.One word of caution: do not listen to this as an audiobook. I'm serious. Although it's nice in theory to hear an author read his own words, Sedaris's voice sounds the way crickets smell. If you hear it, you will know exactly what I mean. Just read it instead.
This audio book is probably the only Christmas tradition I hold to besides Linda and I taking our fake Christmas photos with themes like "Cats as baby Jesus Nativity scene" "Creepy Elves" and "Fiberglass Jesus and Beenie Babies", I mention these because this audio book (and the book is best that way) is the PERFECT background to that sort of activity.
Tis the season, so why not read a short essay on David Sedaris's experiences being an elf in SantaLand one Christmas. I really enjoy David Sedaris, but you can tell this is one of his earlier writings and that he may be trying just a bit to hard to be funny. It won't blow you away, but it definitely shows promise in his writing ability that we see in his later works.
Sedaris is one of the great comic essayists, and his blend of fiction and nonfiction (sometimes impossible to completely separate) has made "Santaland Diaries" both a truly memorable piece and a great one-man show. Strongly recommended for a dose of Christmas commercial absurdism.
irreverently hilarious
The fictional chapters in this book shocked me quite a bit. I enjoyed Sedaris' chapters based on his real life a lot more. They always make me laugh.
