https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123659.Magick
Definitely NOT a beginner's treatise, but quite possibly the most exhaustive and illuminating book on post-Golden Dawn Hermetic ritual magick.
Essential for anyone seriously interested in 20th century (and beyond) occultism, Western Mystery tradition, and Western esoteric work.
It contains commentary and ideas touching on pretty much everything related to Eastern/Western metaphysics, spirituality, yoga, occultism etc.
which was known (in the West) at the turn of the 20th century.
Still, there are some hidden gems scattered throughout, practical instructions/rituals for starting on the AA path, fundamental texts related to Thelema (Liber AL etc.), Qabalah correspondences tables, a good summary on (Raja) yoga, and some great conceptual diagrams.
Ever yearn for an occurrence in your brain characterized essentially by the uniting of the subject and object? Samadhi? Visions of God?Want to step outside the myth of dialectics? Bound too fastly to your inherited metaphysics?Well this is the place to start. I'm working on it.
Crowley's definitive magnum opus on magick and self-actualization, made even more valuable by HB's introduction and extensive footnotes. Must-have for Thelemites and magicians of all persuasions. Except perhaps fans of Lynn V. Andrews and Silver TreeRaven (or whatever her name is this week).
The bible of Magick of the 20th Century. Indispensable resource for anyone studying and/or practicing the Western esoteric tradition.
Twaddle and blather. I read the whole thing. What do people see in this guy? I want my 80 bucks back.
An intensely individualistic account of the path of Yoga and Magick for self-development. Magnetic, charming, even addictive. I have to agree with others who say, look at Crowley's life to decide for yourself whether he is a reliable guide in the area he wants to lead you through.I have no definite conclusion as to his character. Personally I feel the path of Magick is vastly incomplete in the greater scheme of things.Though the principles of Magick are sound, I believe we have yet to see evidence that it produces genuine, permanent changes; that it bears authentic spiritual fruit.
highlights include: "Of the Bloody Sacrifice, and Matters Cognate", Latin sex spells, menstrual-blood cakes, lists of imaginary animals and plants, and an uncomfortable number of pictures of Crowley in a thong. also, the secret to enlightenment is to stand on one leg and hyperventilate for an hour. rated "four" for "Book 4"
Think of it as a tongue-in-cheek manifesto on figuring out what to do with your life. Then you'll be fine, just fine.
Still, the one I'd save from a fire.
i love you
*Review coming soon.
LAM!
This book weighs 5 pounds... but is worth the weight to carry as a resource for the rest of this lifetime.
A good book for those who are not apart of the mundane world and wish to learn about the psychology of Magick and how it works to influence the world around u, beyond the backward materialistic-scientific paradigm.
Great great great book !!!!!!
Interesting, but dated.
Quite possibly the most I have ever spent on a book but worth every penny! Fantastic collection of the knowledge of various ancient cultures and views on "magic"
If ye be magician, then ye know this book
The One. The Only. The absolute necessary book for every magician today. It's THE encyclopedia of, here it comes..... Theory and practice of Magick! Plain and simple truth.
nice
THE go-to book. Buy page tabs.
Magick,Philosophy,Yoga
All four parts of Book 4 in one place... very handy (and at a good price) for the beginner/layman.
Red Wheel Weiser 1994-12, 1994. Hardcover. Book Condition: good. 0877282544.
One of the most important books to have in a Crowley collection. This with Gems of the Equinox and Thoth would give you his full system of magick.
A must read for anyone interested in magick.
