https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14241.The_Liars_Club
I don't write a lot of customer reviews.
And when I finished this book, I didn't think it needed my review.
For one thing, I'm probably the last person in the hemisphere to read it; for another, this book is so good and has been popular for so long that its ratings must be sky high, right?
At the time that I'm writing this review, the Goodreads rating is 3.88.
Over 2000 people gave it one or two stars.
And if I had super hacker skills, I would revoke the ranking privileges of everyone who gave this book one star.
“It was a feat Daddy never got to perform, but on nights when he spread the receipts out chronologically, he made it clear to my sister and me that every day some suit-wearing, Republican sonofabitch (his term) weaseled a working man out of an extra three dollars for lack of a receipt.
So Mary’s parents weren’t so great, but I loved the details she used to bring them to life.
It’s not always good enough, but it’s easier to understand and empathize with your flawed parents when you’re not putting them up on a pedestal attributing superhuman qualities to them.
Much praise has been written about Mary Karr's uniqe poetic voice.
It was a story about growing up poor in a industrial town in Texas.
It's very difficult to read about a character that the author feels embarassed about, whether it is fiction or non-fiction.I did enjoy a few of the more truthful-sounding snippets about her parents and her childhood thoughts about death and seperation.
To me, however, the majority of the story fell flat.My biggest problem is that this "hard childhood" memoir just doesn't hold a light to The Glass Castle - the memoir that got me interested in reading memoirs again.
Her writing is brutal, ballsy, alluring and sharp.Mary was the type of child who, at the age of nine, climbed up a tree and started shooting bbs at the family of a boy who insulted her.
She would flip off her grade school teachers and tell other authority figures to, "Eat me raw," thinking it was just another way of saying, "Kiss my ass."Yeah, so when you see your neighbors' children behaving like anarchist strippers on crack and you wonder if you should call child-protective services, you might want to read this book first, because its hilarious and tragic and the best damn thing I've read in a long time.
So let me just say that throughout this book, I felt like screaming, “Where is Family Services?” The author and her 3-year-older sister should have been taken away from their parents—not for one good reason but for ongoing child neglect and child endangering (both of which resulted in significant damage).The story is so unbelievable that numerous reviews on Amazon rated the book 1 star and refused to believe a word of it.
The author kind of prides herself having been such a strong personality, so self-reliant, and so street-wise and even ferocious to the point that older children (and even adults) were afraid of her.
I am confoundingly happy that poets can also be great novelists. Better yet, sometimes expert autobiographers.Shares the same bookshelf with Jeanette Walls' also impressive nonfiction autobio "The Glass Castle."
Le di un tiempo de reposo para fijar mis idea y dar una opinión más clara, más allá de las primeras emociones, pero sigo sin saber muy bien qué decir.Me he reído muchísimo con este libro (como hacía tiempos que no lo hacía), hay partes en las que se me han humedecido los ojos, y otras donde me he quedado horrorizada por las escenas que describía la autora.
Y sin embargo, pese a que algunos de los pasajes de este libro son un combustible perfecto para pesadillas, es una novela optimista.
Hay personas que han sufrido cosas horribles y, sin embargo, salen más normales de lo que cabría esperar.
Re-read. I stand by the five star rating. Karr's voice is pure, poetic and real. Though my childhood was nothing like hers, the bits which I identify with stir up an amazing welter of emotions and ghosts for me. I fall overboard into this memoir and can smell the East Texas refinery town just like I'd grown up there. Karr's description of her mother's Nervousness is priceless and heartwrenching. The whole book is beautifully written, so much so that one hardly realizes how deeply dysfunctional the family is until one surfaces, after, and looks around one's own life.

The tragic life of two sisters, as told by the younger sister, in a small East Texas.
Total dysfunction and quite sad.
The author writes of every bad detail with no good news between the lines.
The reviews on the back of this book claim it to be "wickedly funny", "astonishing, moving memoir", "howling misery and howling laughter, with the reader veering towards howling laughter", and, "a crazy family tormented by unspoken sorrows......result is funny, lively and un-put-downable".
I saw nothing humorous in this book.
I just found it sad and the reviews are not accurate, in my opinion.
And I couldn't bring myself to care all that much, about the story or about the characters.Which brings me to my final point: the majority of the book covers Karr's childhood before the age of 8.
I also read that Karr thanks her mother and sister in the acknowledgments for helping her to recall certain events.
But honestly, I find it seriously hard to believe that she could possibly have the memory that she claims to have.
She constructs both beautifully and it's not hard to believe that she is a poet, which she is.
_The Liars' Club_ is considered one of the groundbreaking books in the current memoir movement, and there is much for a writer to learn from it, both things to steal and things to avoid.To steal, of course, are the humor and honesty.
Perhaps _The Liars' Club_ can be viewed as a book that opened dialogue for survivors of sexual abuse, and probably did many a great service.
And the reader wants some catharsis, some acknowledgment of the memoir that the writer not only lived through the abuse, but was able to thrive.
With my zero-tolerance for the neglect and abuse of children, I found making my way through THE LIARS' CLUB a chore that I kept postponing.Yes, I could have put Karr's memoir back on a shelf or added it to my bookswap list after I had read fifty (or fewer) pages; but some unidentifiable voice, for some unknown reason, stopped me from abandoning it.
Like we cared whose fault it was instead of just wanting it stopped"(132).
After reading Mary Karr's The Art of Memoir, I decided to give her memoirs another try.
Just a few pages in it became clear that the author was continuing her story that she'd started in The Liars' Club, so I went back to the beginning.I think well-written memoir pulls you in by finding common ground.
Was I surprised to find common ground with a child of east-Texas 1960s with an alcoholic mother?
But if placed in proximity - when I came home, say - any room we sat in would eventually fall into a soul-sucking quiet I could hardly stand."Also discussed on Episode 044 of the Reading Envy Podcast, along with some discussion of The Art of Memoir.
This was not entirely clear to me, and I think in order for such scenes to pack punch, they have to be described in such a way that the reader can connect with why it mattered enough to the protagonist (in this case, the author) to tell about it.In a similar vein, the terror the author felt for her grandmother was somehow not relatable, despite the fact that Karr presents her as a frightful character and the climax at the end (regarding her prosthetic leg) was rather jolting.
I really didn’t see any humor in it a lot.
that’s funny?I think the author could have written the book better; it’s focused on her father, seeing as how he belonged to the Liar’s Club and it ends with his death, but most of the story involved the mother directly, and a lot seems to be left out.
It sounds like something you’d be better off telling your therapist.Reading the low-star amazon reviews makes me happy.
I’m not the only one who didn’t like this and questioned the verisimilitude of many of her statements.This might have been the worst book I read this year.
"The Liar's Club" is a reference to Karr's father a bigger than life character who spent his adult life working for Gulf or some other refinery in this backwater east Texas town (best known as the place where Agent Orange was produced).
Like any good memoir she tells the story of her life with unstinting honesty which is by turns horrible (her mother’s alcoholism, mental instability, affairs) and hysterically funny - a cute young girl who could cuss like a sailor, who carried her own BB gun and perched in a tree to exact vengeance on the neighbor kids for mocking her when her mother was removed to the mental institution.
You'll never forget Mary Karr once you read The Liar's Club.
The result is this memoir from one of her daughters whose Texas and Colorado childhood is laced with remnants of her mother's former life and other self--because her mother seems to be two people.
This is a young girl's story of living with parents who suffer from mental illness and alcoholism.
Like this pivotal moment (I won't spoil it by saying what happened before) when she stops caring about what people think: "For the first time, I felt the power my family's strangeness gave us over the neighbors.
That afternoon, for the first time, I believed that Death itself lived in the neighboring houses.
The first sentence in Stephen King's "On Writing" praises Mary Karr's "The Liars Club" as an example of excellent writing. So I thought: recommendation from a good source. It is a painful coming-of-age autobiographical narrative written from the adult author's point of view. Impossible as it may seem, it is told with look-back wisdom, love, and hard humor. Karr is an excellent writer. I thoroughly enjoyed the book and wholeheartedly recommend it.
What a book. Mary Karr is salty and funny and brilliant and fierce. Such a big, big voice. She even made the last section work--and I was skeptical about a time jump. Fuck the haters who call this just another "misery memoir." It's too funny to be truly miserable. There's a reason why people still read this memoir decades later.
After reading about half of it, though, I realized that I was really irritated by the voice.
She doesn't have much grace, and the wisdom she professes to have doesn't ring true.
It was more like "I have had this horrible stuff happen, look at me, look at me!" Then I heard her talk and realized that she is very, very angry and needs a lot of attention.
This totally sealed my opinion of her, which is that she hasn't gotten to a higher level of grace or wisdom but is selling her story because it sells.

“Cuando la verdad resulta insoportable, es muy común que la mente la elimine”.
Leyendo esta frase de la novela me resulta curiosa la homofonía de las palabras mente y mentira.
Y es justamente lo contrario lo que hace este libro, eliminar la mentira para que salga a flote la miseria moral de la historia de una familia, pero también de un país salvaje e injusto.
Estas memorias de infancia de la autora, que con el artificio, en el buen sentido de la palabra, de una prosa meticulosa de la mejor ficción, en la que nunca sobra ni una palabra, y la inmensa paradoja de narrar la tragedia con el mejor sentido del humor, es un inmenso retrato colectivo del reverso tenebroso del sueño americano.
"That's how God answered my prayers: I learned to make us all into cartoons."There's something to be said about a memoir written by an actual writer. I know you know what I mean. Karr's descriptions make you feel like you're in the story, like you knew her family. Her writing is raw, but lovely. I'm a fan.
I've read her other books and not been as impressed, but "The Liar's Club" is great writing about growing up in a strange family in an East Texas oil town, in the 60s/70s.
Her dad is an oil field worker who is a great, loving father, but with a drinking problem, violent streaks, and her mother is an artist with clear mental health problems who doesn't fit in a little town in East Texas.
First, she's excellent at describing the setting; the background of a hot, gritty, smelly East Texas town fills the story, as does their beach escapades and dalliance to Colorado.
The author grew up poor, with difficult parents.
I grew up poor with difficult parents, as did most of the kids I knew.
I believe that people who want to write a memoir should ask themselves the following questions:a.) Am I wildly famous, whereby I have reason to suspect that people will want to read about every single thing I ever did, and every thought I ever had?b.) If I am I NOT wildly famous, have I accomplished something amazing; or did something really unusual, incredible or miraculous happen to me?
Part laugh out loud, part heartbreaking. I was a bit confused at the ending. I think I need to read Lit to see if I understood what happened.
She must have done it in a way that she planted it in your head somehow, and it's a surprise to find out that those things are still there at the end, lodged in your brain, that they must have been in some recess of your memory all along.
In the end, you get answers but you also get the questions, which were never really articulated by the author throughout the story.
What a remarkable thing to save the questions, even, for the end.
I wish there was a rating of 4.5 stars, but I save 5 stars for books that I could read many times again.
Tengo un problema con "El club de los mentirosos". Todo el mundo lo pone estupendamente y tienen motivos: grandes personajes, humor negro, pasajes dolorosos y tremebundos...Está muy bien escrito y a veces piensas "qué humano, qué auténtico todo". Pero, de 500 páginas, me mantuve realmente interesado en 150 por delante y otras tantas por detrás. (Y el final, aunque no podía ser otro, algo anticlimático).
An incredible book - a perfect story about the lives of imperfect people. If you have any interest in what small towns are really like, the absolute unvarnished truth, this is it. I can't believe how much I love this book.
