https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62530.Thud_
Ankh-Morpork is not a good place to be right now, with tensions from the centuries-old ethnic conflicts (in Discworld fashion, those are between the dwarfs and the trolls) at the all-time high as the anniversary of Koom Valley is nearing.
Because Koom Valley still lives on in the minds of people despite hundreds of miles and hundreds of years, and still claims its victims as the dead bodies pile up and hatred is sparked by those who think they see the light (or rather, the darkness), and riots are about to tear the city apart and turn it into another battle of Koom Valley, and Sam Vimes is not having it, and not even ancient supernatural entities can stop him.
It's origins are hidden in the mists surrounding the mythical Koom Valley, a place where each side is accusing the other of treacherous ambush, but its recent manifestation has moved to Ankh-Morpork, courtesy of the city's new policies of welcoming immigrants.
Malign idiots (Trump?) are pushing the street gangs of trolls and dwarfs towards open violence but Ankh-Morpork has something that we in the real world are sorely missing: a real hero, a man of principle and integrity, a man of common sense and common decency who would not stand back and allow his city to crumble into dust around him, a man even the leaders of the crime underwold in Ankh-Morpork are turning to when the going gets rough.
Add in a suspicious murder, and the Commander of the City Watch is rightly expecting a full-blown reenactment of legendary battle to take place any moment.Lord Vetinari on the other hand, seems more concerned about the lack of vampire coppers.
has been one of my least favorite Discworld novels, but reading Carol.'s review of Night Watch, I figured it deserved a second chance.
buuut, I didn't enjoy reading it nearly as much as I did Night Watch.
Sam Vines is one of the greatest examples of leadership that can be found amongst any of the SF/F protagonists in the past 50 years.Pratchett’s main character of his City Watch sub-series, Commander of the Watch Sam Vines, Duke of Ankh-Morpork, who arose from the captain of the night watch, who used to give part of his monthly check to the widows and orphans of fallen watchmen, is again at center stage in this the 34th Discworld novel first published in 2006 and good enough to get a nomination for the Locus Award in the same year.Now happily married and wrapped around the little finger of his baby boy, little Sam, Vimes has quit drinking but is still very much the low pretense, practical man of the watch, more at home walking the streets of his city than in the Patrician’s office or gussied up for a court appearance.
"The fighting doesn't start until Koom Valley Day. That's tomorrow.""Damn, I lost track.
"That would spoil the day for everyone."While the main mystery of this one - a dwarf is apparently murdered by a troll - didn't interest me much, there are plenty of other shenanigans to make this Discworld adventure a fun read.
I really enjoyed the heck out of Angua and Cheery's Girl's Night Out with a vampire and a stripper, and then there was the memorable road trip to Koom Valley.
Even in Discworld, historical reenactments blow.
Volela bih da postoji Fakultet okultnih nauka, Odsek za nekromantiju, Smer za prizivanje mrtvih pisaca, pa da ga završim, dobijem diplomu (uz odbranjen rad na temu "Empirijski utvrđene razlike u ritualima prizivanja pisaca preminulih pre i nakon 1950-te godine"), pa da mogu da otvorim SZUNR* i legalno summonujem Terija Pračeta samo da ga pitam:- Brate... zašto?----------------* - Samostalna zanatsko-ugostiteljska nekromantska radnja
But the repetition doesn’t impact the overall enjoyment, I’ve found this series filled with great moments throughout and only one of the novels hasn’t worked for me and the majority rated at 4*’s.So, rather than talk about the overall plot of the novel which didn’t impact me all that much after seeing similar avenues in the series already explored (i.e. a murder which means further implications between fractious communities) I thought I would mention two stand out moments/things I took from the book which closely relate to each other in a way.The first is a scene where Sam is defending his home from intruders but the fear that his wife and son are in the home at the same time as these intruders and may be in trouble led to some of the most edge of the seat moments I’ve read.
Samuel Vimes, to me, is the most fascinating character in the discworld series - to watch his growth from a disillusioned drunkard in Guards!
Guards!
I also enjoyed the idea of having the next generation - with young Sam and Tiffany Aching, and trying to imagine little half-werewolf-half-human-brought-up-as-half-dwarf babies...
Didn't quite stand up to Nightwatch, but still had moments - i especially liked the way Vimes reacted to having his family threatened.
“And yet we say this. Here is the cave at the end of the world, peace is made between dwarf and troll, and we will march beyond the hand of Death together. For the enemy is not Troll, nor is it Dwarf, but it is the baleful, the malign, the cowardly, the vessels of hatred, those who do a bad thing and call it good...”  So here we have another City Watch/Discworld book with a poignant story full of humour, bile, tension, excitement and full of SAM VIMES, who is...., but you probably know by now a
So here we have another City Watch/Discworld book with a poignant story full of humour, bile, tension, excitement and full of SAM VIMES, who is...., but you probably know by now about the literary love story going on between him and me, so I will spare you.
:)I love pretty much everything about this book and did I mention Sam Vimes?
OK, so I did, just so you know I love the fact that Sir Terry manages to give him new dimensions again, when you'd pretty much think it's impossible.And Death having a near-Vimes experience is practically perfect.“A VERY ACCURATE ONE.
As with the previous Watch book, it focuses heavily on Vimes, but he continues to be far more likeable than he was earlier in the series so I’m continuing to warm up to him.
The problem is, we’ve seen this quite a bit now in Discworld, particularly in the Watch books, so it’s starting to feel a little repetitive.
The story did hold my interest, and I wasn’t bored, but I don’t think it will be one of the more memorable stories when I’m looking back on the series.
I started this series a little under a year ago, on April 26.
Sometimes you gotta shut up and pay attention: Sorry, but when you've entertained, amused and jollied up an entire worldful of sapient entities, you *have* to be allowed every now and then to get a bit serious.
The "funny bits" are no more than the comic relief in the best Shakespearean tradition.
Considering you're no longer allowed to discuss the real problems of the real world without a screaming mob baying for your blood (you even have to be careful what you name your classroom teddy-bear nowadays, for goodness' sake), you write it in parallel.
Like what he's done here.
If Pratchett's books were nothing more than humorous fluff, I would probably still read and enjoy them, but the added depth of character that he brings to his novels is what keeps me reading them over and over again.In this enstallment, we find Sam Vimes trying to once again bring a semblance of peace to the chaos that is Anhk-Morpork.
Equally important, Vimes needs to be sure he's home every night to read to Young Sam from The Book, aka Where is My Cow?.
November 17, 2005"Is that my cow?" I particularly like the side of Vimes who is such a good parent that regardless of what else he must contend with, he makes it a point to be there to read the bedtime book. I'm only sorry my Offspring are too old for the cow book.
It’s part of the City Watch sub-series, and of course, Sam Vimes, the commander of Ankh-Morpork City Watch, is the protagonist.
The dwarves and trolls are ready to turn the entire city into a battlefield.
As all of the Discworld know, it is the site of an historic battle between trolls and dwarves.
While Sam Vimes and his Watch investigate, some self-righteous dwarves obstruct the investigation.
When Sam cogitates about a “malign idiot”, a belligerent spiritual leader of the dwarves who incites his compatriots to take up arms, it’s not funny at all.
(And I've read quite a few of them.)This one transcends the one-note satire that many of the Discworld books feature (each one takes on a certain topic - this one has a theme of racial tolerance).
But then - a troll WAS actually at the scene of the crime!Commander Vimes of the City Watch must investigate - but the particulars of this case aren't the only thing he has to worry about, as he tries to manage the potential conflicts between his employees - especially the werewolf Sergeant Angua and his new vampire recruit - and the city seems to be sliding toward full-blown ethnic conflict.
We also meet the mysterious Mr. Shine and Inspector A.E. Pessimal, as well as Nobby's girlfriend, Tawneee (too much about her).Of course, it wouldn't be Discworld without another murder mystery to solve and a wild adventure (this time with warring trolls and dwarfs in the city and far away in Koom Valley) and enough pithy puns and cynical satire to sink a ship.
Series: Here are the Discworld books about the City Watch, in order:Guards!
The books feature con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig,  and a few characters from the City Watch.
This book does not feature Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters.
“Shoes, men, coffins; never accept the first one you see.” This is my first true experience with Terry Pratchet, and I’m left with the impression that he is (and was) to the fantasy genre what Douglas Adams was to sci-fi. That is to say… expansively clever, decidedly British, and not prone to taking himself too seriously. The man was a brilliant writer and masterful storyteller—of that I’m convinced. The following review will reflect this particular Discworld book only…Samuel Vimes, the no-nons
The following review will reflect this particular Discworld book only…Samuel Vimes, the no-nonsense Commander of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch, has his work cut out for him.
ARE YOU MY COW?” It’s safe to conclude that Pratchett isn’t just parodying the fantasy genre (although, he’s delightfully good at it!), he’s parodying—and in his own way, confronting—a complex menagerie of issues.
(Considering the creatures inhabiting Discworld are from an array of TRULY different races (i.e. species), it roundly highlights the absurdity of this reality’s ethnic and cultural divides.) The narrative jumps around a bit, including a range of third person perspectives meant to give readers insight into the larger political and social situation.
Most recent Watch novel.
Meanwhile a mysterious museum theft may have surprising consequences, there's been a murder, and Vimes must get home by six to read "Where's My Cow?" to his son.It's a Watch novel – either you know why it's awesome and you're already smiling, or you don't and you should stop listening to me and go off and find out.
Who knows what's to come, but if this is the last Watch novel we get, the world will be just a little bit less bright.
The parallels to the real world, and the Serious Issues, while undeniably serious and difficult, are not particularly in-your-face or preachey.
Well, may be a tiny little bit, towards the end.
But you can't be the world's straightest copper and not get a little bit preachey, and Pratchett did spend the vast majority of the book impressively managing to avoid it.I have also, on a side note, discovered that "Where's My Cow?" is an actual real-life book (a Discworld companion one, of course).
The Guards novels in the Discworld series are my favorites, and Thud!
is maybe my second favorite of the Guards novels.
Maybe first.
Maybe first.
It depends on the day.
I love this one enough that I have trouble articulating why it's my second/third/first favorite.
The heart of the story, the truth about Koom Valley, strikes me as a powerful narrative about prejudice and hatred and how easy it is to write ourselves a story that fits our preconceived ideas about the world and the people who live in it.
Once again, I find that I feel a bit differently about this book now than when I read it first. It's interesting to see Sam, who seems like a man who'd be the epitome of toxic masculinity, control his anger, never get violent unless absolutely necessary, love and respect his wife, and do whatever it takes to spend time with his son - including transcend space. I'm sure Terry meant for him to be this way. Lots of different interesting political themes in this one, but they're not as clear as they were in the other books.
I'm realizing yet another flaw in this book rating system.
So, for instance, this is not my favorite of Pratchett's books, although I enjoyed it a lot, BUT, this is Terry Pratchett.
Terry Pratchett.
Now Terry Pratchett in my estimation is a 5* writer at the worst of times and deserves credit for it.
I would give Terry Pratchett 5*, and this particular book 3*, if you see what I'm getting at.All that aside, after reading this, I am more convinced than ever that leadership training should include the reading of all the City Watch series.
There's no one like Terry for pointing it out.
And it didn't help that the novel itself is horribly anticlimactic, with an ending that I don't think works on any level, and that the whole thing feels a little bloated compared to the earlier books, while simultaneously feeling rushed.But now I read it differently.
And when you've waited all week for it, you may even get a bit pissed off that they're wasting your time with this stuff.And yet, when the show's over, and you miss it, and you turn on the TV and happen to catch an episode and it's this one, suddenly...
While I appreciated this volume in this series, I just didn't engage with it in the same way. Compared to the laugh-a-minute "The Last Continent," this one was more sombre.
I really really love Douglas Adams, and Thud!
book came almost as close to my heart as the Hitchhiker's Guide series.
Like Douglas, Pratchett is insanely good at saying the most ridiculous things while sounding totally reasonable and stoically serious.
I especially liked the way Thud!
Tawnee, Angua, Brick, and Sybil were all awesome to hear from and kept the book from slipping into boring.
This is the first Discworld book I've read - I liked it.
If I read another one though I'd be curious to hear from the world outside of the Watch and Ankh-Morpork.
Sniff...sniff...Now I know why Anne Elisabeth Stengl says this author has the power to make you cry and laugh within sentences. The storyline with Sam and little Sam...wow...just wow....
Daleko su od svojih rodnih brda ili rudnika i više im je stalo da prožive svoj život punim plućima nego da se uguše u mržnji prema drugima.
Zatvoreni su duboko u svojim rupama, ne rade ništa osim što se bave mržnjom i određivanjem ko je pravi patuljak, a ko nije dovoljno patuljak.
Naravno, ne zovu se baš tako, i skriveni su iza patuljačkih brada, ali nesumnjivo je da su baš ta dva velikana naše propasti uzeli učešća i u ovoj Pračetovoj zavrzlami.Omiljeni citat: „Ovde, u ovoj pećini na kraju sveta,mir je sklopljen između patuljaka i trolova, i zajedno ćemo odmarširati van domašaja ruke smrti.
La segunda mitad del libro se hace emocionante y no puedes parar de leer y descubrir qué es lo que se esconde tras toda esta historia. A pesar de ello, creo que no tiene tanta fuerza como los dos libros anteriores de la saga de la Guardia.Aún así, un libro totalmente recomendable que te hará disfrutar y soltar más de una carcajda.
Thud is a Discworld novel, focusing, as most of the more recent books have, on Sam Vimes, the Commander of the Watch in the city of Ankh-Morph, and the troubles that ensue when the ethnic tensions arise between the local Trolls and Dwarfs, who had been generally in peace, despite traditions of enmity between the two groups.
As always, I found the climax of the thing a teeny bit hard to follow - I don't know if that's because I read the books a wee bit too quickly, or if Pratchett gets so wrapped up in his own ideas and confusing situations that he misses the thread a little bit.
Þessi er eitt enn dæmi um það.Ég talaði aðeins um Pratchett í útvarpsþætti sem var gerður í kjölfar andláts hans.
Ég hef alltaf túlkað bækur hans á þá leið að hann hafi verið gríðarlegur fjölmenningarsinni.Hann var ekki þessi strámannsútgáfa af fjölmenningarsinna sem telur að það séu engin vandræði sem fylgi innflytjendum.
Pratchett leggur hins vegar áherslu á að það sé ekki hægt að dæma hópa út frá verstu meðlimum hans.
er afskaplega gott dæmi um hvernig er hægt að nota fantasíuformið til að ræða um erfið málefni samtímans með því setja það í fjarlægt umhverfi.
