https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30512.Paddy_Clarke_Ha_Ha_Ha
I hate to be facetious about this, but it’s true.
But I guess the year this book was published there were a few other, if any, contenders for the top prize.It’s certainly not awful.
It’s actually entertaining, readable, sometimes funny.
This is a chapter-less novel; a pretty ordinary account of a pretty ordinary boy.
This hits several targets to become a well-loved book, but it still remains a coming-of-age story of an Irish imp—a precocious, slightly evil ten year old boy.
Both Doyle and his protagonist are exactly my age.
Paddy’s little brother Francis (a.k.a. Sinbad) opted out of that role, preferring to be one of the less celebrated players.
I figured it said a lot about the brother relationship that Paddy always worked every advantage to appear the dominant star whereas Sinbad was happy to play an ancillary role, creatively feeding the ball to the scorers, ending up more responsible for the results even if less recognized.
George Best also featured in another story when Paddy’s da bought him a cherished copy of Best’s book, autographed by the man himself.
Doyle's ability to inhabit the mindset of a boy who is ten at the end of the book is extraordinary, and the final part of the book in which he watches his parents splitting up and falls out with the rather thuggish gang he has spent the rest of the book describing his part in is quite moving - the title doesn't appear until the last two pages.
It is told in a somewhat random stream of consciousness which perhaps reflects the way childhood memories work.Overall I am quite glad that I read this one, and I can see some of the reasons it won the prize, but it didn't whet the appetite for reading more Doyle.
Young Francie of The Butcher Boy was a sad, abused derelict who never had a chance to experience childhood and grow up; he retracted into his own, small bubble where the world resembles comic books and films with John Wayne.
Paddy is an observant boy, who sees how the world is changing: he runs around the neighborhood and performs pranks with a group of fellow boys, but also notices how urban development is slowly encroaching the areas they used to play in; he picks on kids but does so largely to remain in the pack, with which it commits mischief in the neighborhood.
A strikingly powerful portrait of a dysfunctional family and the boy acting as the glue holding it together, Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha is a nostalgic Irish novel with many profound themes hidden beneath childish innocence.
I've read a lot of books, and I can tell you, there isn't one out there that captures a childhood, or the perspective from a 10-year-old child, better than this one.Not just any childhood, and certainly not any in 2014 in a middle-class or affluent neighborhood, where the children can now be found indoors, and in silence, save the hum of their tv or computer.This is a childhood set in Ireland, but these are the childhoods that many of us (before, say 1985) experienced in our own lower and middle class neighborhoods.
Ten-year-old Paddy Clarke's story.
Doyle, one of my favorite authors, nails the stream-of-consciousness of a young boy, Paddy Clarke of the title.
Young boy antics are universal and, believe me, Paddy and his friends were inventive!I laughed out loud many times, especially at the workings of Paddy's mind, where while going about his school, play and home life, he simultaneously imagined himself as Geronimo, their bikes as horses, himself as George Best the Manchester United super-star, etc.
In Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha, we get to spend a bit of time in Paddy's world and for me that was worth the ride.
Abandoned :( Child protagonists annoy me anyway.Just found this ramblings of a young irish lad
La particolarità che mi ha immediatamente colpita è stato il fatto che la storia è narrata in prima persona dal piccolo Paddy, ma al tempo passato, come se ricordasse episodi della sua infanzia da adulto; invece il linguaggio usato è quello dei bambini, semplice, immediato, che segue una logica soltanto infantile, per cui i pensieri gli si allacciano l’uno con l’altro senza continuità, prendendo spunto dal ricordo di un nome o di un gioco, così a caso.
Happily, 'Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha,' told from the POV of a ten year old boy, is a masterclass of perception and imaginative writing.
Structurally, the loose chronology is often eschewed by the meandering connections of memory in Paddy's head, although the increasing preoccupation with the health of his parents' marriage cuts through the tales of boyish banter and scrapes, revealing beyond the laughter and joys of childhood a sadness at the core.Very often fathers are sidelined in a family, although regularly they sideline themselves.
This is captured so well in the book; the mother is the centre of family life, she is responsible for all the positive routine for her two boys.
Patrick "Paddy" Clarke is a 10-year-old boy growing up in 1960s Ireland who has good and bad times with his friends, loves and hates his little brother (and has no use for his baby sisters because they don't do anything worthwhile yet), tells lies to his friends and his teachers in order to gain their appreciation and respect, and who wants nothing more than to understand (and fix) the problems that begin to erupt between his parents.
Roddy Doyle manages to capture a 10-year-old boy's perspective on life perfectly.

When I was reading Paula Spencer I was thinking that Roddy Doyle must have spent hours talking to women, or rather listening to them.
Reading Paddy Clarke...
made me think he must have spent hours listening to children.
Most things that happen to Paddy and his family and friends are not 'ha ha ha' at all, but this book is one of the most entertaining ones I've read.
I think Paddy Clarke is one of the best characters ever and if you don't agree you're a spa and I'll give you a dead leg!
They were just kids"Says 10 year old Paddy Clarke about his friends from whom he has decided to move on.
(Like when he finds out his younger brother is actually a really good football player)The changes on domestic and external front for young Patrick Clark fall like light on a prism as he colorfully makes sense of it and makes corrections.
The voice of the 10 year old remains true till the end of the book and therein lies the achievement- It stays it's age.
Makes you relive your sense making of the grown-up world as a kid.
(Thanx Nick Hornby and Speaking to the Angels.) Cause Paddy Clarke HaHaHa is just like I like a book.
One of the books I truly love.
Paddy Clarke is 10 years old, breathless with discovery." Writes Irish Times.
I love Paddy Clarke.
(Expect he wouldn't want me to do it (even if we would exist in the same world).
This was the kind of book, after which it's hard to start on an other one, cause u know it's not gonna be half as good, won't give u the same feeling.
And I did forget to mention the word cute.
I don't find anything compelling at all in this book, as a matter of fact.Ireland sounds damned good and dreary, and I am rethinking my desire to visit.
I'm beginning to hate all the fools and cruels who dare to become parents in Ireland, too.
I don't want to talk about this book anymore.
Because the writing, the descriptions, the sheer visual acuity of it makes anything less a dishonest rating, one based on my growing dislike of the country it's about, not a judgment of the book's merits.
It is one of my lost reviews.When I tell others about this novel I talk about Roddy Doyle's voice and how he captures the thought patterns of children so well; I mention certain tales Patrick tells, like the burning of Sinbad's mouth, or the Grand National, but I never mention the connection the novel has with my own life.
Brian [my Dad] never left Chris [my Mom], but my experiences of abuse and my own violent childhood and my need for isolation are all captured in the voice of Paddy.
Doyle expresses my experience best.
These scraps of memory are not quite in sequence though there is a sense of dawning awareness that grows as the novel moves to its conclusion.There's no plot as such, which is ok, but I'm not sure what its theme is either.
In fact I'm not at all sure what Doyle is on about, except to depict the chaotic order of life in small boy gangs and the violence they impose on each other.
Much too subtle for me, and I've read Portrait twice.My overwhelming impression is one of distaste for the depiction of a savage little way of life.I finished reading this book and journalled it on 6.8.03.Cross posted at The Complete Booker
«Ma il tango è un ballo che si balla in due.»Alla fine con quest'affermazione Patrick Clarke, anni dieci, Paddy per gli amici, Roddy Doyle per i lettori, mi è venuto in aiuto e mi ha fatto sentire meno in colpa.Sarà che io non sono mai stata un bambino, piuttosto una "piccola donna".Sarà che i giochi di strada non li ho mai fatti.Sarà che di Irlanda, alla fine, in questo romanzo ce n'è pochissima.Sarà che io sono una seguace entusiasta di Agnes Browne e della dolce melanconironia di Brendan O'Carroll.
Moreover, it was a present from a friend of mine and I also loved the time and effort she put into looking for a book that could meet my taste.23 years later (oh my god!) I really want to give Paddy and his gang a good spanking.
IMHO the style of writing is simply perfect, exactly as you expect an healthy and vivacious young boy to talk and think.
The last paged looks more like a "normal book", then the free mind of Patrick.Roddy Doyle will write again about domestic abuse in The Woman Who Walked Into Doors.
I don't know, but I know he's quite good in writing about it.
La risata del titolo è una risata forzata, costruita, innaturale, quella di un bambino che ama inventare le cose perché arrivare in fondo alla bugia senza contraddizioni è vincere una sfida con sé stessi, un bambino che in mezzo alla sua cricca d'amici deve ridere più forte degli altri, ed accertarsi che gli altri lo stiano guardando, si stiano accorgendo della sua voce, stiano riconoscendo il suo sforzo di farsi notare.
E poi, quando ormai pensavo che questo libro si sarebbe concluso come un'opera ben scritta ma non di mio interesse, ecco quelle ultime ottanta pagine.
I tend to love Irish authors and books like this one, in which I can hear the brogue in the dialog.
This book did a wonderful job of putting the reader in the reality of boys ages 8 to 10 and their relationships.
The main characters certainly experienced some life changes, but I was left feeling like the journey had just begun after a long time spent getting the engine to start.
I wanted to hear about where the characters were five or ten years down the line.
They lure you in with the quick and often hilarious wit of their protagonists, and Roddy Doyle's Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha is delivered with a lilting melody of local terms and accents that pick you up and carry you along at a cracking and often rhythmic pace.
Young Paddy Clarke lives his life with his emotions constantly on the edge, a pent up ball of bravado and explosive impulses of love and loyalty.
You can't help but live it right there with him, every fighting, breathless step of the way.
3,5 χα χα χα τι ωραία και διασκεδαστική σειρά βιβλίων#not . Τα θέματα που διαπραγματεύεται ο συγγραφέας σε όλα του τα βιβλία είναι μάλλον άβολα . Η ηταν άβολα την αποχή της ευημερίας μας . Τώρα ξανάγιναν πραγματικότητα"μόδα"
8.0/10
REVIEW STARTS HERE:Starting the book was great, I was immediately drawn to the protagonist, 10 year old Patrick Clarke (named after his father) who runs around 1960's Ireland with his friends Liam, Aidan, Kevin and Patrick's younger brother Francis with the agnomen of "Sinbad".I enjoyed the writing of Mr. Doyle in this, it was in the format of a child's intermittent and irregular bursts of thought.
He did his school work well, (actually Patrick was always at the top of his class) and showed his father his spelling words to stop his parents in the middle of a fight.
Meh.A harmless little book where nothing really happens. So his parents fight and it upsets him, so what.Everybody's parents fight.It doesn't have the heft of Angela's Ashes, where at least the kid does have plenty to moan about.
Roddy Doyle brilliantly captured the psychology of children and created a credible world of childhood play and dialogue that rang true and real.
But as is often true of at-risk children, Paddy’s world was falling apart and you feel his pain.
Then swiftly followed the end of Paddy’s childhood when the chant that rang out was “Paddy Clarke, Paddy Clarke, has no da, ha, ha, ha!” Doyle’s understatement of grief was mingled with the depiction of uncontrollable zest in being alive at age ten, sweetness, and a fearless belief that one can live forever.
I would have given this book zero quite happily. Was forced to read this for my two GCSE years and hated every second. For some reason the author expects us to like the lead character who likes doing nothing more than bullying and physically torturing his friends and brother. The language is basic which is supposed to reflect the child narrator but was actually just incredibly irritating. Despite having missed reading several chunks of the book I recieved an A* in my GCSE indicating just how predictable the book is. Give me to kill a mockingbird anyday!!!
Few books successfully capture the experience of a child, fewer still manage to both capture the perspective of a child with a thorough comment on 'adult' issues. In Paddy Clarke Doyle comments on religion, politics, Ireland, family dynamics (and probably more stuff I didn't pick up on)The story is light-hearted in prose, but deep in content which creates a somewhat awkward but fulfilling story. A good length too, leaving one satiated without gagging for more (or bored throughout)
