https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121367.Rogue_River_Feud
For the first half of the book they are involved in fishing for salmon near Gold Beach at the mouth of the river, where Kevin's former fiancee's crooked father has a lock on the cannery business.
My wife came close to drowning in the Rogue River, in a very easy section that Kevin and Garry could have run blindfolded.
We can thank Zane Grey for giving us a snapshot of a time on the Rogue River before Glen Wooldridge started running upstream in powerboats and before the river was clotted on a summer day with tour groups in rafts and kayaks.
There is a war between gold miners in the Rouge River valley following World War I. A wounded Kevin Bell returns from the war in Europe and teams up with a fisherman to take advantage of the salmon fishing but finds no peace. An old fashioned family friendly book.
Still, the compassion and companionship shared between Keven and Garry, two men broken by society and down on their luck, prepared them for the love they find with their brides.
It's a love story, hidden in a book about fishing.Even back in the 1020's, politics could be dirty.
Here's the quote: "But Garry, people can be awakened into revolt," expostulated Keven.
You gave your strength, your health, your eyesight - an' fer what?
Your good name was ruined by a potbellied slacker of a politics-made major...
Yet you stand up an' fight fer the right!...
As usual, a great story by Zane. His insight into the feelings and emotions of his characters let us truly be part of the story. His narrative about the landscape helps us feel like we're there. I will never tire of his stories and read everyone at least twiceCharacters let us know them intimately. His discription of the landscape puts y o ur m i nd there. I have read everyone of his books at least twice.
Romance and intrigueZane has a way of writing that will fill you with hope and fears, laughs and tears. Clean good reading that is relaxing and refreshing. Plot that thickens until you can not put down the book. Tragedy that has a fuller liking at the end. Hope you enjoy it as well as I did.
Spellbinding and rivitingZane Grey has always been one of my favorite writers. Have been reading his books since I was a young boy in the 1950's. I had never read this book but like all written by Zane I loved it and hard to put down. Not all shoot em up, bang bang but real life.
One Great Read A great read, this is definitely one Zane Grey's best novels, although I'm partial to most of his writings. Love his descriptions of the mountains and rivers, of all that he wrote concerning the natural world.
For a more modern day western:One of the best __but what would you expect from mister Gray!! Just read one his books an I'm sure you'll agree.
Wow,A wonderful work of art. I have read a bout six books by this author, to date this is one of his best work. I greatly enjoyed it.
Great love storyI have loved Zane Gray since I was a child. Now, many years later my love persists. I am an ardent reader of 74 years.
Well, the secret is - He writes beautifully about the scenery, the smells, sounds, and critters of this area.
Grey lived in and loved this area, and lovingly describes it.The ending is good, too, although he has several kinda dull pages near the end figuring how to get there.
But 97% of the book is great if you know the this beautiful river and forest-green area.
I grew up near the Rogue River so was really looking forward to reading this book when I found a copy! It's an average book by Zane Grey. I was i little disappointed just because I didn't like it better than all his other books. Forlorn River, another book by Grey, is one I liked much better. It is based in the Tule Lake area of northern California and I was there a lot, so it kind of makes up for Rogue River Feud.
This book really appealed to the fisherman in me. I thought that the historical aspect of this book was right on in that it describes the feelings of two groups of fishermen who were warring over the same resource (salmon). Although this is not considered one of Grey's better works, I enjoyed it immensely. Definitely worth the read if you can find a copy of it.
very good story
A Grey story that portrays life in the Pacific Northwest during the height of the salmon industry. If nothing else, it has a different setting than the typical rustlers-and-tumbleweed format.
An all time favorite of mine. I can imagine being right there watching this stoy unfold. Great characters.
Enjoyable old-style story. I liked reading about local towns and the early fishing problems on the Rogue.
I love this book, it's my favorite Zane Grey.
