https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574361.Teachings_of_the_Prophet_Joseph_Smith
It occurred to me once that the vast majority of the words we regularly read from Joseph Smith are not his own words but things he translated or otherwise received from God. It was a wonderful experience to read this book and finally feel like I knew and understood Joseph. His personality came out and he felt real. My feelings about his prophetic calling went from belief/hope to confidence. He had such a depth of understanding that I continually felt inclined to believe that his wisdom was scarcely matched by even the ancient prophets.
Just like the New Testament, doctrine was expounded as he tried to curb problems in the church.As the book goes on it gets into some of the sermons that he gave.
It also includes some lesser well known sermons that he gave.It was definitely worth the read.
You can't read this without thinking that.
(Like my dad said one time about watching "The Dukes of Hazard." "You watch it for five minutes, and you'll see something you've never seen before on tv.")I had that thought listening to religious talk radio the other day.
I thought, "Anyone could think of that."So, here's one random example, of what I said: gold.
"Could you gaze into heaven five minutes, you would know more than you would by reading all that ever was written on the subject."I like it b/c--theoretically, if you believe it--he did see into heaven more than five minutes.
It was compiled for an audience that was presumed to already be quite familiar with the Book of Mormon, Pearl of Great Price and Doctrine and Covenants in their entirety.
However, if you are familiar with those this book is astonishing in its sheer doctrinal power.
I like to use the phrase "post card doctrine" for scriptural insights that typically serve as the basis for a sunday school lesson.
Joseph Smith is a prophet of God and the depth, breadth and sheer power of the doctrine in this book is astonishing.
The other documents included: The King Follett discourse, the Sermon in the Grove, the Origin of Man, Doctrinal Exposition on the Father and the Son, the Wentworth Letter, and the Family Proclamation.
The Follett discourse and Sermon in the Grove are both in Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith (TPJS), I believe.
Origin of Man is a 1st Presidency statement from ????.
Doctrinal Exposition on the Father and the Son is in the appendix of Articles Of Faith, by ????.
And the Wentworth Letter is the letter that ends with the Articles of Faith.
One of my best loved books.
I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and I have studied the history of the Church and the life of Joseph Smith extensively.
This volume (written by Joseph's grand-nephew and later President of the Church offers many details that are not generally found by most members of the Church.
One would assume that these extra details would give a clearer picture of Joseph Smith's personality.
Although it is nice to re-affirm my feelings about the man, it is not source of much that is new.It is a good book, but their are better biographies to teach about Joseph Smith.
Doctrinal clarity is given on every page and it is a wonderful book!
) “When you feel pure intelligence flowing into you, it may give you sudden strokes of ideas, so that by noticing it, you may find it fulfilled the same day or soon; (i.e.) those things that were presented unto your minds by the Spirit of God, will come to pass; and thus by learning the Spirit of God and understanding it, you may grow into the principle of revelation, until you become perfect in Christ Jesus.” ( Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, sel.
. All beings who have bodies have power over those who have not.” ( Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, sel.
This book is a must read. However, you should also get the Words of Joseph Smith by Andrew Ehat. Teachings is compiled from various notetakers accounts of Joseph's sermons. It is helpful to have the consolidated teachings in this book, but in many cases reading the original accounts adds additional insight.
Excellent book. I learned so much. I will for sure be reading this again. I highly recommend.
Good book.
:) Here are a couple of my favorite quotes:"Let the saints remember that great things depend on their individual exertion, and that they are called to be co-workers with us and the Holy Spirit in accomplishing the great work of the last days; and in consideration of the extent, the blessings and glories of the same, let every selfish feeling be not only buried, but annihilated; and let love to God and man predominate and reign triumphant in every mind, that their hearts may become like Enoch's of old, and comprehend all things, present, past and future, and come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ." - page 178"Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to is; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God. But we cannot keep all the commandments without first knowing them, and we cannot expect to know all, or more than we now know unless we comply with or keep those we have already received." - page 255
I read this every couple of years, and recently reread it.
While I love having such a well-preserved canon of a life that was not as well-documented as historians in our modern era might like, I do sometimes wish there were more commentary on sources of texts included.For instance, I only recently discovered that the text for the King Follett Sermon was synthesized from the records of four different diarists.
This is a great resource for people wanting to delve deeper than the prestine/pleasing Sunday School portrait of Joseph Smith.
Regardless, it's a resource, worth perusal by both devout and skeptical readers.
I'm the latter in case it isn't apparent.A closer reading of Joseph Smith's writing reveals he didn't have it all figured out following his early epiphanies.
I wouldn't recommend this as a starting point for studying Joseph Smith or Mormonism.
But for the reasonably well-versed student of Mormon history and thought, it's probably a must read.
However, that it is a foundation ally flawed, even ludicrously fantastical, and baldly sexist, racist, and abusive is so obvious to any discerning reader that I would recommend it as the third book to read (after Pearl of Great Price and Doctrine and Covenants) for anyone interested in getting a good, clear conviction for all the reasons why the Mormon church is a dangerous and deceptive cult.
I read this book after Pearl and D&C when I was dating a young woman in the LDS church.
So, terrible book, but so obviously so that I have to recommend it.
I thought the book was well compiled by President Joseph Fielding Smith.
The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith were deep and you can tell that he continually pondered the word of God. I came to find that Joseph Smith taught more from the Bible than the Book of Mormon.
Nevertheless, he emphasized the need to read the Book of Mormon.The King Follett discourse was a delicious sermon given from the Prophet, at his best.
I heard the accusations against the Prophet during my mission, but now I wish people would be willing to hear both sides of the story than to rush to a hasty, angry judgment.Joseph Smith was, and is, a prophet of God!
This is my favorite book outside of the holy scriptures. The revelations received by Joseph Smith from Jesus Christ have had incredible meaning for my life and have caused me great joy, peace, and reflection. I've read this book 3-4 times, and have used it as a reference many times. I enjoyed reading it in Portuguese when I was serving a religious mission in Brazil. I love Joseph Smith Jr. What faith! What integrity! What perseverance! What righteousness! What a revolutionary thinker! What a man! What a disciple!
A collection of the stements and teachings of Joseph Smith, founding President and Prophet of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. Thought requiring a serious study of the doctrines of the gospel, TOPJF is well worth the time and energy to plow through it and ponder on the teachings therein. Much of my own foundational knowledge of the gospel came as I read this volume in my twenties, and I have tried to build on that foundation ever since. Highly recommended.
This is a book I kept in the bathroom and read it in small segments, which works well, as that's how its written. It was good to read a section, then ponder about it, sometimes re-reading the same sections over a few times. It is a great companion book to reading the Doctrine and Covenants, and some things are in both books. It adds context to Joseph's life and helped me to hear his voice more than I do in the scriptures, because they are so familiar to me. I'm glad I read it.
Read this while serving a Mormon mission in Norway. It was life-changing for me--almost as much as The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ. This book marked the beginning of my love for the history of the LDS Church.
"Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith" is a fascinating read as it covers the many teachings of Joseph Smith in his own words. Some of the writings are a little difficult to understand, but most are clear and very accessible. I highly recommend this book!!!
whenever I listen to a talk and a quote from a book is mentioned, more likely then not it's from this book. It obviously, therefor, has some good information in it. And if it's so good that prophets and seers and revelators are quoting from it, then I should read it as well. :)
My mom gave this to me for Mothers Day and WOW! These teachings are always quoted by general authorities and in church curriculum. I will love having this around just to look up stuff as I prepare lessons or talks.
I've read most of this while studying the scriptures. I just wish it was organized differently. It's hard to access things that you want to remember without remembering a page number. Also I wish they had the scripture references. Doctrinally, it was 5 stars though!
This was a wonderful look into the life of Joseph Smith through his teachings. The teachings are presented chronologically, which gave great insights into the development of the LDS church and the growth of Joseph Smith as a man and a prophet.
you can't really ever stop reading this book. he has excerpts on different gospel subjects and so whichever subject your studying you go to that point in this book. it is an awesome companion to read alongside the scriptures.
Nothing short of Brilliant! What I loved most about this collection is that these teachings supersede boundaries of time, labels of religion, and philosophies of men. These are truths eternal which provide knowledge to empower and motivate our true identity as children of God.
This book established my appreciation and love for this great man, then solidified and enhanced these upon repeated reading and study. I know that Joseph Smith is truly a prophet, called personally by a living God the Father and His living Only-Begotten, Beloved Son Jesus Christ.
Very helpful addendum to the actual revelations the Prophet Joseph Smith received.I especially liked the teachings on the Spirit and receiving personal revelation and inspiration for ourselves. This also contains the famous King Follet discourse.
Even for dyed-in-the-wool LDS this book can be challenging. Direct quotes from Joseph Smith that would cause controversy even today are extant and reveal an early nineteenth century rhetorical style one can easily call abrasive. What can I say, I LOVED IT.
