https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1153149.The_Outline_of_History_Vol_1
I had no idea that H.G. Wells had written a history text.
I never heard this text mentioned once in four and a half years of higher education - why?
Well for one Mr. Wells does not fit the academic mold nor does his book follow what is still established doctrine for history texts.
He has opinions about everything, he won't hesitate to tell the reader what he thinks was wrong with ancient Greece, the Roman Empire, Alexander ect.
This is a book which challenges the reader to think.
While Wells is guilty of ommission and some commission which historian isn't?
I hunted this book down after realising it was a book I needed in my life, my knowledge of history was patchy at best, Eurocentric and in a bit of a jumble.
It is immensely readable and manages to bring historical figures to life in a paragraph or even a line!
It is a book full of hopes and dreams for the future, noble and relevant ones, which continually give the histories meaning.
I really think he had good intentions about presenting us with a global history, he falls a little short, probably due to a glut of information on one hand and a scarcity on the other.
Wells takes the reader through human civilization, admittedly from the viewpoint of Europeanism, from the paleolithic to the end of WW1 and the League of Nations.
He reviews the origins of the "great" religions; Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, and Buddhism, and explains their doctrines and the ways in which religion has poisoned the original assertions, and the reasons and benefits of its arising, of each faith.
The final chapter is exceptional in its describing the benefits of civilization which has evolved beyond dogma, warfare, empire, and ignorance.
A great read and extremely informative close to , but not quite on, the level of Gibbon.
Fascinating from a cultural-historical perspective (trying to imagine Wells' frames of reference and open-mindedness in the years 1918-1929)Not a bad choice for the average US citizen to read just for filling in our cultural gaps, still true today as in the 30s. Interesting, to me, that Wells at the start of the 20th century understood the need to de-westernize history...he doesn't know all that much about Asia but he knows those cultures are valuable and important, and part of collective history.
I read it about 3 years after reading War of the Worlds. My Dad was an avid reader, & he had accumulated some very interesting books. I had no idea really there was a 2nd volume, I just uncovered this book will looking for another. I thank Goodreads for this rare gem, as I probably wouldn't have found it for a long time. I am unearthing closets full of books to enter in my Goodreads bookshelves. My brother took most of the books my father owned, I glad he missed this one. Maybe he has volume 2!
Although dated by the ongoing march of knowledge, it is still enjoyable to read Wells' writing and his different perspectives on historical events and figures. His passages on Buddha, Jesus and Muhammad are insightful and against the grain. The writing tends to weaken considerably near the end of WWI, and when another writer picked up the tale in WWII, all the British colonial biases began to seep in to the story. But his emphasis on the human race evolving into a community of will is dead on and we still face challenges in reaching that destination.
If history of humanity feels a lot like the following video to you, then you need to read this book, or at least my review of it: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m3Jhik...
I wish people could make the connection between what they love in H.G. Wells’ other writings, and infer that the same creative mind is at work in this Outline to help readers understand the deep meaning of humanity’s experiences, but that isn’t likely.
Like all heroes, it is deeply flawed, but it is a flaw that provides the book with a unity of purpose that makes it a great book: HG Wells, a socialist and a humanist in the grandest scale, could not escape the prejudice of his era in the belief in an Aryan race that had contributed almost all that is progressive and good in civilisation.
The book is nevertheless an astonishing achievement, and a jolly good read.
Such an achievement would only be possible to someone like HG Wells, who was driven by a philosophical conviction in the possibility of amelioration of the human condition.

A great outline of world history, from the formation of the solar system through WWII. Puts everything in perspective. BUT, great as it is, I can't actually endorse this book. After reading it, it came to my attention that in all likelihood 'Outline' is a complete plagiarization of a book called 'The Web,' written by a feminist author named Florence Deeks. There is a book out there, which I haven't read but which I'll bet is interesting, called 'The Spinster and the Prophet: H.G. Wells, Florence Deeks, and the Case of the Plagiarized Text' (2000).
My copy is a single-volume 1961 edition that doesn't appear to be listed separately on Goodreads. Can't say I've attempted to read it start to finish, but it is a useful reference to consult when Wikipedia merely whets the appetite.
I like Wells' perspective on history, one even finds a subtle humor in here. Though large portions of it is now outdated, it is a great piece if you wish to get the zeitgeist of what folks in this age thought of history.
Intensely valuable from a historiographical perspective. Great read in general
Even though the history is technically out of date; I enjoy reading what H.G. Wells had set out to do with his history and how it tries very had not to be euro-centric.
Very interesting non fiction reference book from H.G. Wells!
Maybe I'm just a big history geek but I couldn't put this down. I found the ancient history the most interesting.
انتهيت من أول جزأين من معالم ويلز ..أول جزأ يشمل علي أصل الكون أو بمعني أكثر وضوحاً من أين جاء الكون
my book is vol ll onlyThe Outline of History The whole story of mannew enlarged editionc1949 Doubleday Garden City Booksp 653 to 1288ch XXXl through XLChristendom and the Crusades through The Second World War brought up to the present by Raymond Postgatehardcover with a dust jacketthe volume is perfect and the dust jacket is ragged
Definitely dated, but offers an interesting perspective of our past, from our past.
Good info, but hard to finish.
The Outline of History Volume 1 (Hardcover) by H.G. Wells
The writing is superb and the book is informative.
History is brutal and it is only recently that we have been shedding violence and embracing peaceful means to live our life.
We have to look at history through some ethical framework to judge what was the right thing to do!
Wells did quite a job looking at the history from the perspective of compassion and love of knowledge.
At the time of writing of the book, there wasn't much information available on histories of other parts of the world.
As a fiction writer, Wells know how to keep the readers glued to the book.
Good book for a broad outline (though I prefer to go deep and read either primary sources or a story about a specific time in history).
In the future, by making such operations worldwide and systematic, man may be able to control climate to an extent at which as yet we can only guess.""...with the Pleistocene (a great majority of living species) there set in a long period of extreme conditions--it was the Great Ice Age. Glaciers spread from the poles towards the equator, until England to the Thames was covered in ice.
It was on a discard pile in a second hand book store and I thought "what the hey it's in terrible shape but only a quarter." So I picked it up and actually got it free when I presented two books from the pile.
I also got a new appreciation of why early Egyptian and oriental thinking was and is so different from the western world's.
The thinking of Martians could be no different from western thought than the oriental.
Also that very different and far flung peoples solved similar problems in a similar way.All and in a great deal for first a quarter and then merely for the heft of a tattered book.
This is one of those books (or rather, two books) that you feel like you should get a college credit for completing.H.G. Wells takes us on a journey through the entire span of history.
In addition, Wells offers lots of insights and connections throughout the book, like any good history teacher, and this is what makes it so enlightening.The book is very Europe-heavy as one might expect, and some of the material is out of date (especially some of the really early stuff about "apes and sub-men" etc.!), but other than that I think the book is extremely worth reading.
I wanted to read a brief history of nearly everything.
I thought this would be the book for that.
It could have been but I got too bored.
I read the stuff I thought would be interesting and skipped over the parts I thought would be boring.
I thought the book would be easy to understand and follow but it was too difficult to remember all the technical names, etc.
I started reading it because I wanted a simple outline of history spelled out for the layman like me and this book didn't do that for me.

Wow -- I don't know where to begin.
Whether in clear yet powerful prose or in broadness of scope, this book excels; absolutely an A+ read.
The section on Jesus was quite possibly the most generous and pious description I've ever encountered from a non-Christian; Wells somehow comes much closer to understanding the Kingdom of Heaven than most Christians.
And the section on Islam was equally interesting, bringing to light a host of characters both noble and exciting; men I'd previously never heard about, and worth knowing, if not for their good theology, then for their unadulterated virtue and manliness.Highly recommended.
Please note: my review dates are somewhat inaccurate.
I actually first read this 2 volume set several years ago.
My 'current date' shown is for a general re-read.
The Outline of History has been heavily critisized for many, many reasons.
I found his storytelling of history to be very enjoyable.
Time and history have not turned out to be entirely on Well's side.
But, setting aside the flaws and what-we-know-now gaffes, still the author does offer some , until then, unique facts and conclusions.
Be sure to read his comment on the 'time clock' - very interesting.
It had some elements that were an advance in its time--taking up the whole world and not just "Western civilization"; trying to give cultural history and not just "great men and wars," etc.; starting with the geological origin of the earth and the origin of humanity through evolution--but in creeps racism here and there, and a twisted Fabian view of thinkers such as Hegel and Marx.
