https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1027982.The_Normal_Christian_Life
God. This is the best book I've ever read--and I absolutely mean that with all the sincerity that I can muster.
And Nee's message was poignant, timeless, and so powerful that it really affected my life.
His message of grace and of the blood, cross, and life of Christ is amazing.
And the way he ended the book with his points on wasting ourselves for the ministering of Jesus wrecked me.
I wish I could put this book in the hands of every new believer and make them read it and understand it.

Watchman Nee had a profound understanding of the normal Christian life, which is wholly different from the 'average' Christian life.
The normal Christian life consists of realizing and acknowledging the divine fact that Christians were (not will be) crucified with Christ in the first century A.D. In a way that we do not yet understand, God has included us in the death (and resurrection) of His only Son, and by doing has made many sons.
The Christian life goes off-track when it forgets these facts or, more often, when the Christian attempts to live by his own will-power.
"God shows us through His Word that He has only one answer to every human need: His Son, Jesus Christ." ~Watchman NeeI've been meaning to read this book for a while now and I finally go the chance this year.
But after reading it this year, I was truly amazed by the various aspects that are required of us to live a normal Christian life which just focuses all on Jesus Christ Himself.
The book is focused on the aspects of a Christian's living found in the New Testament and portrays them in simpler words, but still holding to the deep meaning behind it.
The key to the normal Christian life and being spiritual is in understanding principles.
Christianity is more than having the facts and principles.
It is discerning the truth, and not trusting one teacher, whether that is Paul, Peter or Watchman Nee. Normally a Chinese Christian pastor teaches and preaches standing up.
He was a good teacher but after The Spiritual Man debacle his teaching was not to be questioned.
If anyone in the church in Shanghai or Fuzhou read other authors outside Keswick or Brethren teachings they might have seen what was missing.
NOT!Read The Normal Christian Life.
p54 - “Knowing this,” says Paul, “that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be in bondage to sin” (Rom 6:6), “Knowing this?” Yes, but do you know it?
Rest in the fact that God has put you in his Son, and live in the expectation that he will complete his work in you.
p197 - But God has never told us to force ourselves to be what we are not naturally; to try, by taking thought, to add to our spiritual stature.
Nee's classic study of the book of Romans.Everything positive I wrote about the ebook edition of The Normal Christian Church Life applies to this edition.This is a new experience for me.
Having purchased and read the ebook version of The Normal Christian Church Life, I purchased the hard copy and read it as well.
(I bought it because of the frustration trying to find passages for reference and quoting.
I haven't done a line for line comparison, but the ebook doesn't seem to include all the text of the hard copy, and it certainly isn't organized as a ready reference.
Excellent book
This is a book that is in a handful of life-changers on my shelf.
Watchman Nee so clearly communicates the Gospel message and the effect of Christ's atoning death on the Cross.
Before reading, I wouldn't have been able to articulate the Gospel message effectively, but after, I finally felt I had something to stand on.The book is timeless, a joy to read, easy to understand, and highly recommended to everyone, especially those new to the Christian faith.I was also ecstatic when I found it for sale for a dollar at the local thrift store.
This author spoke to my heart in powerful words on Romans 6-8 and helped me to understand the strength I have in Christ is the source of conquering sin. To live a "normal Christian life" is to live in the Spirit and reckon myself dead to sin. "For we know that our old self was crucified with him so that the body of sin might be done away with..." Through the power of Christ I can live a righteous life in the Spirit!
If I could give this book more stars I would. It spoke to me in ways that I never anticipated and I've fallen in love with Watchman Nee's writings. I will definitely be reading more of his books. I highly recommend this for Christians who are seeking to grow in their understanding of their walk with Christ. There is depth that is understandable; something not always found.
This book is almost too good. It is not an easy read by any means. I usually can only read a paragraph or two before I have to stop and reflect. Watchman Nee was an amazing man as well, as I learned reading a biography. He never answered any of his critics even when they told outright lies about him. He was always confident that God would vindicate him. Give this book a shot.
examines a truth you've heard a million times and takes it straight to the heart and soul. what a brother to know!
Absolutely one of the best books ever on grace and living in freedom. Required reading for every Christian.
Some of his statements are downright troubling:"We tried to point out that, just as he had done nothing for his justification, so he need do nothing for his sanctification" (http://www.ccel.org/ccel/nee/normal.v...).
He wanted us, and could not be satisfied without us" (http://www.ccel.org/ccel/nee/normal.x...).
The same principle applies to you in your relationship to God. The question is not whether you are a bad man or a good man, more or less, but simply, Are you a man?
(http://www.ccel.org/ccel/nee/normal.x...)The question is not whether we are human; Adam and Eve had a great relationship with God before the Fall.
This time I have not only enjoyed it, but I have found it rather revolutionary.(view spoiler)[Each chapter is a pearl.
For example, the last chapter is entitled, 'The Goal of the Gospel' and concentrates on the action of Mary who took the alabaster box of precious 'spikenard', broke it and anointed the Lord.
But for God, whilst He wants us to care for the poor and to change the lives of sinners, that mustn't be our singular aim.
Our only action is to pour out everything, the most precious things in our lives before Him and let Him do the rest.Nee doesn't teach inactivity, but reliance upon God.
I can't express what this book has taught me and how it has helped me come to a better understanding of the true meaning of the Gospel and the Christian life.Nee illustrates his points so well with experiences from his own and other's walks with the Lord.
I loved his sincere yet fervent treatment of what it truly means to be a Christian.I will be returning to this book often, I know.
I've been learning recently, and this book wonderfully confirms that lesson, that the most important lessons of the Christian life are those we've already learned but that need to be learned ever anew and more deeply.
I'm pretty sure I've read this book before, but can't remember how I felt about it.
There are some pretty good points in this book, which mostly centers on the idea that everything we need to live "the normal Christian life" has already been done for us by Christ.
Once we figure out this basic truth, the problem of trying to live this life becomes much easier.
The strongest of those times came when I got to page 216 and read these words: "But we must always view redemption as an interruption, an 'emergency' measure, made necessary by a catastrophic break in the straight line of the purpose of God." In other words, Nee is saying that the cross was "plan B." I'm sorry, but I unequivocally disagree with that idea.
One of the best Christian life books I've ever read.
It truly describes the stages and periods of the Christian walk, in both practical and theological ways.This book has encouraged me in times of self- hate, frustration, and crisis, but it has also TAUGHT me more theological truths than any other single book (save the Bible).
It's a classic from early in the 20th century, but it is very readable and understandable so long as it is viewed as a book to chew on, not to fly through.If you want to be encouraged, learn more about what the Christian life is supposed to look like, and be intellectually stimulated with theology, this is a must read.
Nevertheless, I read this book in my mid-twenties and wondered how I had managed as a Christian before it.
This is a study through the book of Romans.
It is intense and will require slow and thoughtful reading to grasp and appreciate.
If you struggle with how to overcome sin or how to understand forgiveness, this especially would be a great book to consider.
Don't led the dense nature of the book intimidate you.
Read sections, not whole chapters, at a time.
This will be worth your time.
I'm currently on my third reading of it!
This is one of the best books on basic Christianity that I have ever read.
Nee methodically goes through Romans 6-8, pointing out the deep truths revealed in these chapters and challenging the reader at every turn.
He also has chapters on the Body of Christ, the soul and its part in our walk, bearing the cross daily, and the goal of the Gospel.
I found Nee's style and explanations perfect for me.
There were so many times that I felt such deep joy while reading, and I attribute that to the truth of the Gospel that he is reminding his readers of.
When it comes to explaining new creation realities and the power of the cross of christ, There are very few books that hit the mark like this one.
Another that comes to mind is Nee's other amazing work - Sit, Walk, Stand which is also an ABSOLUTE must read.
Like others using this site, I own a lot of books but I don't treasure and revere all of them like I do those Nee wrote.
Time studying Nee is time well spent, you will be grateful you picked up this book and will find the foundations of your faith deepen with every page.
Another Christian foundational work. Nee is encouraging, intelligent, and deep as he discusses what the normal Xn life should look like. The title is delightfully ironic because that life is so different from the one so many of us know. However, through Christ, the beliver has all squi needs to access that better--and more real--life. Nee examples explain nebulous theological concepts extremely well; it must be a gift of his. Brilliant work.http://ahabsquest.wordpress.com/2008/...
This book is a must read for Christians.
I'm not that informed on the life of Watchman Nee and I hear that he had a problem with Protestants and Catholics in his time and a few other strange things about him.
I will say that this book is uplifting and Nee does an amazing job of describing simply the complex mysteries of our faith.
There were a few things that I didn't completely agree with him on but that's pretty much every book I read these days anyway.
I want to read this book again.
One of the BEST books I've ever read! Watchman Nee takes you step by step in sections through the book of Romans and describes in great detail the meaning for the Blood and the Cross of Jesus Christ. I took my time with this book just to absorb and reflect on what I was reading. Truly astounding what a difference this book has made in my perspective. I highly recommend for anyone who suffers with people repeatedly recalling your "old man" , rather than look at what God is doing within you now. Be prepared for a heart transplant!
My first Watchman Nee book. Should be the first of many. He has an incredible way of showing the practicability and importance of basic Christian Doctrine. It was amazing how many different illustrations and example's are used to prove verious points. I was encouraged by Mr. Nee to ask God for a personal revelation that would shock me and show me how much I depended on God to rid me of my sinful nature. I prayed this so that I would truly understand what it means to be crucified with Christ.God followed through.
I first read the Normal Christian Life in 1982. At the time, it seemed like a good book. I was wrong... it is a fantastic book. I know of no other book which does as a complete a job of explaining how Romans 5-8 plays out in our lives. Anyone who reads and understands this book will find themselves freed to follow God wholly. Too often we try to please God through our own efforts... this never works. The start and finish of life is God's gracious love.
An insightful look at the heart of the Book of Romans, this book moves into my top 25 most significant books. For me, it is in the order of The Saving Life of Christ and The Mind of Christ. Perhaps it's something about the keen Asian mind of Nee that brings exceedingly fine thinking to Paul's words and unpacks the text in a way that sheds fresh light on Christ's work. I also see Know Be Do all through the book, although Nee doesn't identify it like that. I highly recommend the book.
That book is nearly the greatest book I've ever read. Every true christian should know the facts that are published in this book. It talks about the power of Jesus Christ's death and resurrection in setting us free from being servants of sin, and not our power or will can do that. I recommend every christian to read this book, it will save him from many accusations and wrong feelings from the evil. the book is named in Arabic as: (ظ„ط§ ط£ظ†ط§ طظ„ ط§ظ„ظ…ط³ظٹط ) by Watchman NeeRead in 2009
That book is nearly the greatest book I've ever read. Every true christian should know the facts that are published in this book. It talks about the power of Jesus Christ's death and resurrection in setting us free from being servants of sin, and not our power or will can do that. I recommend every christian to read this book, it will save him from many accusations and wrong feelings from the evil. the book is named in Arabic as: (ظ„ط§ ط£ظ†ط§ ط¨ظ„ ط§ظ„ظ…ط³ظٹط­ ) by Watchman NeeRead in 2009
This book opens the curtain of the typical view of Christianity and more specifically the practical aspects of living a Christian life allowing you to see a new valid perspective. I'm not sure if its the fact that Née was not raised and indoctrinated into the western culture and our views of religion, but his revelations are astounding. Great book!
Whew, a very deep book; I couldn't read more than a few pages before having to sit and think about what I'd just read. Definitely not a light-reading type of book. Very convicting and thought-provoking. It's a brilliant explanation and exposition of what Paul is really saying in those pivotal chapters of Romans: namely, 5-8. A must-read for any Christian.
