https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36373417-the-map-of-salt-and-stars
There have been quite a few novels written over the last several years about the refugee experience, mostly how they are trying to manage their new lives in the US.
This book was somewhat different with a family moving back to Syria in 2011 after the father dies.
We follow 12 year old Nour and her mother and sisters from New York to Syria to Jordan to Libya to Morocco.
This is yet another story with dual times alternating Nour’s present day journey with another young girl, Rawiya, 800 years earlier.
As with many books with dual story lines, I usually am drawn to one more than the other.
4 colorful and descriptive stars to The Map of Salt and Stars! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ The Syrian civil war and refugee crisis stay in the forefront of my mind most days. I am heartbroken. I am deeply worried. I am listening. The Map of Salt and Stars had me intrigued since I first learned about it. I inhaled this book. Joukhadar’s writing is some of the most lyrical I’ve read. The main character, Nour, has synesthesia and sees colors, and you, the reader, will as well, as a landscape and story are artistically
In 2011, Nour’s father passes away, and her mother decides to move Nour and her sisters from New York City back to Syria to be closer to family.
Nour and her family flee to safety, crossing seven countries in the Middle East and Africa.
Her journey is epic in proportions and in ways echos that of Nour and her family.
Both narratives are about journeys, adventure, heartache, war, darkness, light, and ultimately, family and the search for home.
I could read books written in this style of writing all day.
Thank you to Jennifer Zeynab Joukhadar, Touchstone, and Edelweiss for the ARC.
For the first time in years, I think of something Mama told me when I was little: that when you make a map, you don’t just paint the world the way it is. You paint your own.  Joukhadar alternates between the legendary tale of a girl battling mythological beasts across windswept dunes on her quest to “map the lands of Anatolia, Bilad Ash-Sham, and the eastern Maghreb” and the story of a young Syrian refugee who makes a harrowing journey, alongside her family, in search of a new place to call hom
For the first time in years, I think of something Mama told me when I was little: that when you make a map, you don’t just paint the world the way it is.
Joukhadar alternates between the legendary tale of a girl battling mythological beasts across windswept dunes on her quest to “map the lands of Anatolia, Bilad Ash-Sham, and the eastern Maghreb” and the story of a young Syrian refugee who makes a harrowing journey, alongside her family, in search of a new place to call home.
In the contemporary setting Syrian-American Nour's life is upended when her beloved father dies and her mother moves the family back to Syria to the city of Homs.
12 year old Nour grieves for her father and deals with that grief by recounting to the earth the story of her and her father's favourite heroine Rawiya and her adventures with the mapmaker Al-Idrisi.
Her commitment to keeping her family alive was incredible to read about and she has become one of my favourite mothering characters that I've ever read about.
What kind of magic is this?Q:God smiles through the cracks in broken things.
(c)Q:Stories are powerful, but gather too many of the words of others in your heart and they will drown out your own.
(c)Q:Stones don't have to be whole to be lovely," he says.
"Even cracked ones can be polished and set.
Small diamonds, if they are clear and well cut, can be more valuable than big ones with impurities.
Listen," he says.
(c)Q:“New York?" Itto looks down at me.
"How?""A person ca be two things at the same time," Itto says.
Words survive.
Borders are nothing to words and blood.” (c)Q:...
Set against the backdrop of the unrest in Syria and coupled with a 12th century romance adventure tale,  The Map of Salt and Stars  certainly sheds light on one family's story as they travel from America after their father's death to Syria, only to find themselves refugees fleeing across Jordan, Egypt, Algeria, Libya and Morocco.
I appreciated the author's source list and information at the back of the book, the writing and characters were absolutely beautiful BUT I didn't find the "story" within the story that interesting.
A wonderful and heartbreaking story that follows a refugee family in 2011 and an explorer in the 1200s, showing how their lives parallel one another and intertwine across time and space.
But my words are wild country, and I don't have a map.""Every place you go becomes a part of you.
Remember that.""'Don't forget,' he says, and Abu Sayeed looks up while he translates, holding the words back a little, 'stories ease the pain of living, not dying.
People always think dying is going to hurt.
It's living that hurts us.'"
This debut takes us through twelve-year-old Noor’s journey as her family moves from New York to Syria in 2011, then is almost immediately forced to flee Syria once the war begins and her home is destroyed. This book is written in two timelines, present day, and a “fable” timeline from many centuries ago, connected by a love of map-making. The author writes lovely descriptions, especially of the colors, foods and settings. You can taste and see and smell your surroundings beautifully. Trigger warnings: (view spoiler)[ violence, sexual assault, attempted rape (hide spoiler)]Please excuse typos/name misspellings. Entered on screen reader.
“E. M. Forster taught us that ‘fiction is truer than history than history because it goes beyond the evidence.’ Jennifer Zeynab Maccani’s magic first novel is a testimony to that maxim. We’ve all been aware of the plight of Syrian refugees, but in this richly imaginative story we see one small family – both haunted by history and saved by myth – work their west. It’s beautiful and lovely and eye-opening.”
Point in fact the writing was amazing, but the story line just could not seem to pull me into that place were time just drifted away as you became enthralled with the book.
It set people, as war always does, adrift in the miasma of conflict, fleeing to a place where life might return to normal although knowing it never would.
I know there must have been an immense amount of research and time that this author put into writing this historical novel.
It would be impossible to overstate how proud we are to be publishing this gorgeous and important novel. Nour's voice will capture your heart and linger in your mind long after you read the final page. Jennifer Zeynab Joukhadar is not only immensely talented, but has a story that needs to be told.
Her mother, a cartographer who creates maps, decides to move Nour and her sisters from New York City back to Syria to be closer to their family.
Nour and her family need to decide if they want to stay and risk possibly getting killed or flee as refugees across several countries to get to safety.
Rawiya embarks on an epic journey across the Middle East and North of Africa where she encounters mythical beasts, and many other things.The Map of Salt and Stars follows the journeys of Nour and Rawiya as they travel identical paths across the region but eight hundred years apart.This book is truly a work of art.
That leaves me liking only half, at most, of a book.
In this case, I just couldn't get interested in the fairy tale set 800 years in the past.
The author switched between stories in the middle of chapters, which completely destroyed the flow of the story set in the present.
The problem was compounded when listening to the audiobook because the narrator never altered her voice or gave any indication when the book had shifted to the other timeline.
I gave up on the book after reading 42% of it.
I received a free copy of this book from the publisher.
There are some books where words will never be able to adequately express the power and feelings within it's pages.
At it's core this story is about the journey to map the world and our three travellers who are trying to do so (including our warrior girl).
It is a story that will break your heart and also give you hope.
Syrian Refugee CrisisThe obvious point of Joukhadar writing The Map of Salt and Stars is to bring awareness of the Syrian people's dire situation.
One day any one of us could be in a situation where we have nothing and our only hope is aid in a different country.

“The Syria I knew is in me somewhere. And I guess it’s in you too, in its own way.”This book is really beautifully written and I found myself getting emotional a few times while reading. I really appreciate that the writer didn't go into the politics of the situation in Syria and chose to focus instead on the humanitarian aspect. I also liked that some of the historical figures and the places they visit are real.
This rich, moving, and lyrical debut novel is to Syria what The Kite Runner was to Afghanistan; the story of two girls living eight hundred years apart—a modern-day Syrian refugee seeking safety and a medieval adventurer apprenticed to a legendary mapmaker—places today’s headlines in the sweep of history, where the pain of exile and the triumph of courage echo again and again.This is honestly the most intriguing blurb I've ever read. I need this book so badly now!!!!
Many thanks to Touchstone Books for my free copy of MAP OF SALT AND STARS by Jennifer Zeynab Joukhadar - all opinions are my own.This is a gorgeously written, heartbreaking, and inspiring story.
It’s written with a unique perspective, not of a refugee figuring out life in America, but of a family who has to move back to Syria because of a tragic loss.
Twelve-year-old Nour was born and raised in New York by two immigrant parents, but after her father dies of cancer, her mother moves her and her sisters to Homs, Syria where family can help out.
Nour's synesthesia also makes for very interesting descriptions.
I felt deeply for everyone in her family, and the abrupt violence of war as well as the refugee experience are shared in a nondramatic, unforgettable way.
That said I still highly recommend this debut and can't wait to see what this author does next.The Story: The book follows the story of Nour, a Syrian-American girl living in New York.
Amid grotesque violence, Nour is made a refugee, a traveler through Syria’s neighboring lands.Almost a thousand years earlier, another girl’s story unfolds.
Thanks to Touchstone for sending me a copy to review!This novel follows the story lines of two girls, Nour and Rawiya.
Both girls set off on journeys, each mirroring the other to draw out themes of home, family, and identity.Much of this novel didn't work for me in ways that reminded me of Girls Burn Brighter.
In books like these I want to explore the characters' emotions, not be told how to feel.
I've seen some great reviews already that appreciate the rich setting and emotional notes.
A gorgeous, smart novel that follows 12-year-old Nour through a harrowing journey to find safety after her city is bombed during the Syrian Civil War. I flagged many amazing passages and insightful sentences. Too many to mention. I encourage everyone to read this book to understand the plight of the refugee. Challenge yourself with this important work.
4.5 stars. The Map of Salt and Stars is one of the best stories I’ve read this year. This diverse read is filled with poignant themes, unforgettable characters including two inspiring female protagonists, and beautiful writing. See more about why I loved this story by visiting my blog post! https://readingladies.com/2018/08/31/...
In this richly drawn story a contempoary Syrian family is torn apart after their home is destroyed.
As the family attempts to escape the violence and leave Syria the reader is given an intimate window to the experience through the voice of a 12 year old girl.
Concurrently we travel back to twelfth century as another fatherless girl leaves home to apprentice with cartographer.
While her story is filled with historical context and some mythical creatures, it provides important background and helps the reader understanding an area of the world many of us have limited knowledge.
This novel follows the story lines of two young girls, Nour and Rawiya.
Nour, raised in present day New York, moves back to Syria with her mother and two sisters, after the death of her father.
However, their home in the city of Hom is bombed and they are forced to flee their home as refugees, along with a neighbor.
About eight hundred years earlier, Rawiya pretends to be a boy so she can become a prominent mapmaker's apprentice.
Rawiya's story has magical elements to it while Nour deals with the modern plight of being an unwanted refugee.
➳Full review now posted.(This review can also be found on my blog!)  “The land where your parents were born will always be in you. Words survive. Borders are nothing to words and blood.”   🌙 🧕—Muslim & Arab Reading Month #1 (this book features Arabs as well as hijabi women)[5/5] Trigger warning:  attempted rape, violence, death.Did I finally, finally find the book that seemed to speak to me, rather than just narrate a story?Why yes. Yes I did, and the proof is right there on the dedication p
The Map of Salt and Stars is about a 12-year-old girl, Nour, who has to move from New York back to Homs, Syria, with her family after the death of her father.
A 12-year-old girl who has to worry about things like food and hygiene while she’s on the run for her life.
With the refugee crisis and the numerous misconceptions going on right now, it’s important that more books start talking about why we need to help instead of push away.Nour also learns that, when wars are involved, innocent people are affected.
This book includes a lot of traveling, both by Nour and her family who are Syrian refugees and the story of Rawiya, a mapmaker's apprentice.
After the first 1/3 of the book, once I adjusted to the writing style and got to know the characters a bit more, I became very invested in the heartbreaking story of Nour and all that her family struggled through and lost when a bomb hit their home and they had to flee.
I also loved Rawiya who left home, disguised herself as a boy and became apprenticed to a map maker to seek her fortune and support her family.
I loved this book!
I really struggled with this one. It just didn't click with me. Too slow.
It’s lovely and lyrical and musical and descriptive and straddles the line between purple prose and not (which is the perfect position, if you ask me).
Heads up: this is a heavy book.
it’s not a novel to read lightly or even quickly, and it takes time to get through.
Her voice feels authentic and genuine and the fact that this is headed by a young girl that isn’t even a teenager yet adds a goosebump-raising element to the events that unfold, if only because the harrowing journey that Nour undergoes should never be experienced by one so young; but unfortunately, her story is a real and common one.
I have not yet found the map to my words...when I do I will share them with you
Thanks so much to Touchstone Books for providing me a copy of this novel for review.
GO GET THIS BOOK NOW.
But I am saying it now, and I mean it from the bottom of my heart.
I was so nervous to read this one - it was my most anticipated book this summer and I was terrified it wouldn't live up to the hype....but it completely delivered and I could not be more happy with it!!
It's going up there with Whiskey & Ribbons as a top 2018 read!
