https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5546.The_Feynman_Lectures_on_Physics
I recognize that few will purchase this, but it is the most incredible set of explanations of the basic principles of physics by the most infectiously charming and lucid teacher of it. It has a great conversational tone and is thereby quite readable. Feynman provides excellent examples and thorough explanation. He also gives his honest opinion (as always) to anything controversial. Just a great read if you are curious about such things.
It took me about a year to finish all three volumes, after which I can say I have followed and remembered roughly 20% of Feynman's endless derivations.
Her idea was that math and science teachers often follow a chronological order, based on the history of science and the order in which various concepts were discovered and evolved.
Instead they should follow a logical order, beginning with "fundamentals" instead of "basics." To me, Feynman's book wholly represents this idea.
The content is organized really well, so it makes it easy to follow the big pictures even if details are getting lost here and there.
Yay for accessible physics! Enough said.
But, these were delivered at Caltech, perhaps the finest place in the world to study physics at the time (apart from in Russia, with Lev Landau), so the standards were pretty tough - and even then, many of the students complained that these were too "off beat" for them to be able to swallow and regurgitate in their final exams.
Sadly, in today's world, when university lecturers are marked on their performance by the students, such works of genius like this would never arise in our society where everyone has to pass.
Bu üç cilt eksiksiz pedagojik bir çalışmadır. Ayrıca Feynman’ın 1961-64 yılları arasında, California Teknoloji Enstitüsünde (Caltech) alanlarına bakılmaksızın bütün birinci ve ikinci sınıf öğrencilerinin ihtiyacı olduğu lisans fizik derslerinin tarihsel bir kaydıdır.Feynman Dersleri’nin I. Cildi, 1961-62 akademik yılında California Teknoloji Enstitüsünde (Caltech) Prof. R.P. Feynman tarafından giriş fiziği dersi olarak verilmiş olan bir konferanslar dizisine dayanmaktadır; tüm Caltech birinci ve
Ay­rı­ca Feyn­man’ın 1961-64 yıl­la­rı ara­sın­da, Ca­li­for­nia Tek­no­lo­ji Ens­ti­tü­sün­de (Cal­tech) alan­la­rı­na ba­kıl­mak­sı­zın bü­tün bi­rin­ci ve ikin­ci sı­nıf öğ­ren­ci­le­ri­nin ih­ti­ya­cı ol­du­ğu li­sans fi­zik ders­le­ri­nin ta­rih­sel bir kay­dı­dır.Feynman Dersleri’nin I.
Cildi, 1961-62 aka­de­mik yı­lın­da Ca­li­for­ni­a Tek­no­lo­ji Ens­ti­tü­sün­de (Cal­tech) Prof.
R.P. Feyn­man ta­ra­fın­dan gi­riş fi­zi­ği der­si ola­rak ve­ril­miş olan bir kon­fe­rans­lar di­zi­si­ne da­yan­mak­ta­dır; tüm Cal­tech bi­rin­ci ve ikin­ci sı­nıf öğ­ren­ci­le­ri­nin al­dı­ğı iki-yıl­lık gi­riş der­si­nin ilk yı­lı­nı kap­sa­mak­ta­dır; ikin­ci yı­lı kap­sa­yan ben­zer bir di­zi de1962-63’te bu­nun pe­şin­den gel­miş­ti.
Kitap, alışıldık fiziğe giriş konularının dışına çıkar.
Kuantum fiziğine giriş niteliği de taşıyan bu kitap, Feynman’ın dehasını ve en zor konuları basite indirme becerisini yansıtmaktadır.
The Feynmans physics course is a non comon undergraduate course because though there are some formul
It's a great way to learn physics Feynman's way, which means very little problem solving but a lot of deep comprehension and a thematic approach to physics.
Meaning: he shows you certain paradigmatic problems which illuminate the physical world and which you can use over and over again.
Also he shows you advance peeks at more advanced science, which you will certainly not get in most undergrad physics textbooks.
Caveat: Feynman is not so deep philosophically.
His take on relativity is strictly for calculational purposes and even in quantum (his specialty) you will find very few deep philosophical insights into the theory besides just: "shut up and calculate!" He seemed to be allergic to mixing philosophy and physics but sometimes it is unavoidable.
This has got to be the easiest nobel Laureat to read in history. It is enjoyable from start to finish and once you've completed a particular subject, it is just like he says it will be: you don't understand anymore about physics than you did when you started, except you understand more about what you don't know.
This was my fallback textbook throughout my physics education at Cornell. They're dense, fascinating, and wonderful. I acquired my copy as a prize for being the nerdiest student in my year at Ithaca High; the thing that makes it especially meaningful is that my copy is inscribed by Hans Bethe.
Although the Feynman Lectures are not always well-pitched for their intended undergraduate audience, the author's explanations of many physics topics are unsurpassed. The writing is lucid, well-structured and authoritative, and only let down a little by Feynman's occasional failure to appreciate the difficulty of the concepts he is setting out.
Five stars are not enough for this genius work.
If there were to be an apocalypse and only one book were to survive I would wish it were this book.
This is my bible, the story not of how the universe came to be but of how well we have understood it and use it to our benefit, the reason why we are different from other animals; not because God created us from his image but because we are the ones who understand Him the best, maybe even created Him from our imagination.
As it turned out, I learned far more about physics from Feynman's "introduction" than I had learned in 4-5 years of course work up until that time.
I will go so far as to say that a serious student of physics can obtain a complete theoretical education of the subject by studying (and understanding) no more than the following: 1.
Feynman's Lectures (a 3 volume set), 2.
the Course of Theoretical Physics by Landau and Lifshitz (a 10 volume set), and 3.
I am certainly not implying that this is easy, since a true mastery of all of these texts would probably require 5-7 years for a very good student.
Embarrasses me that undergrads fifty years ago were learning things I still don't know. Haha.
Best physics lectures ever.
Seandainya saya menjadi salah satu pemangku kepentingan pendidikan, buku ini akan saya rekomendasikan untuk menjadi salah satu referensi materi pelajaran fisika di SMA.Penulis, Richard Feynman, penerima Nobel Fisika tahun 1995 menjelaskan fenomena dan peristiwa di bidang fisika dengan memakai pendekatan penjelasan yang runtut dan logis disertai dengan contoh nyata di kehidupan sehari-hari.
Pendekatan penulis menjadikan konsep fisika yang secara umum saya pandang sebagai sesuatu yang memusingkan dan sulit, menjadi mudah difahami dan dicerna oleh nalar.
I think physicists are geeks.
Feynman is far too fascinated with obscure physical phenomena for a normal human.
But hey, so am I.
These lectures have some math in them, but mostly they are just packed with insight.
They are a whirlwind tour through some of the most fascinating things about the world.Now, I don't like most physics books written for a popular audience.
These were written for physicists who want to take a break from the drudgery of their usual work and look at things they are probably already very familiar with in a way that will leave them thinking deeply about the world again.
No engineer (or science student)can claim to be adept at physics unless he has gone over the evergreen Feynman lectures. Feynman presents Physics in such a way that every common man, without knowledge of even +2 level maths can understand the concepts.Feynman lectures remains one of the best ways of presenting Physics to the masses, making them see practical and simple applications of the concepts and removing the geekiness from Physics.
Just started, but I've never seen a physics book like this before. The intent is to make things clear and bring across the beauty of science and questioning. I'll follow up when finished, but it's like wine. You might take awhile to finish this one.
this man is born for physics...the language is so clear...he starts by raising our first doubts about every notion of physics then slowly clears them...extremely "feelable"...which is very important as far as understanding is concerned in physics
These are my daily Bible passages. One every morning and I feel like a renewed soul.
You've got to get the audio of this - his voice is amazing
Interested in Physics? Read this. I have never seen a more didactic account of Physics
This book Provides some wonderful and accessible explanations. This is not a good standalone physics textbook but a great accompaniment to one.
Feynman is a giant underscored by bongo drums and a keen sense of reality.
Useless for a physics class, tops the list of books to read "just for fun", if you are a dork that is.
The Feynman Lectures are the best thing I have ever read in physics!
I found out about these lectures from the fanfic Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality (this book is an excellent advertisement of lectures).
Physics has never been so interesting for me!
Moreover, it is possible to learn something new from mathematics, to look at the known things in a new way.
In general, complicated things are told very simply and fascinatingly, but there is also a difficult to understand material that needs to be disassembled and understood more thoroughly.
This series of lectures would be interesting to all who are interested in science.
Man..! I have no word for this great scientist! I recommend it without any doubts who loves Physics. All volumes of Feynman's lecture discuss the fundamental laws of Physics in layman terminology which is easy to understand for readers of non-Physics background. The lectures also discuss the application of these laws of Physics in the world from nano-scale to light year- scale.
Probably one of my favorite thinkers, and he has been a favorite topic since he was such a humble, quiet person. Since the first year of the lectures was 1962 I enjoy hearing what the state of science was when I was a year old. Interestingly the lectures remain very relevant today.
Great book with amazing sets of lectures. I love it because he is able to provide great explanations and examples to some of the basic concepts of physics which I could possibly quote during some of my O Level Physics Tuition classes.
My father gave them to me as an alternative to school books. They are amassing and surprisingly easy to follow. These works might be the reason I went for physics higher education, even if I ended up in software engineering for a guaranteed paycheck.
