https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162022.Nietzsche
He also presented Nietzsche as a pioneer of modern psychology and argued that a key to understanding his overall philosophy is to see it as a reaction against Christianity.Many scholars in the past half century have taken issue with some of Kaufmann's interpretations, but the book ranks as one of the most influential accounts ever written of any major Western thinker.And more publicity, some of the blurbs from the back cover (chosen to impress Goodreaders).Thomas Mann: “A work of great superiority over everything previously achieved in Nietzsche criticism and interpretation.”A.J.P. Taylor: “This is the most sensible exposition of Nietzsche’s philosophy ever made”Jacques Maritain: “An important historical and philosophical contribution.
Stellar.
Walter Kaufmann is one of the great popularists of philosophy, the Will Durant of his generation. If you are intimidated by the subject and the big names in the history of philosophy, Kaufmann is for you.If you liked this book, a positive appropriation of the oft-maligned, but ever-popular Nietzsche, then you ought look into his book on Hegel.I originally purchased this volume in paperback during a Nietzsche phase in college, then obtained a hardcover version years later.
This, I suppose, was the first step in the philosophical world's large-scale cleanup and renovation of Nietzsche's reputation in the wake of World War II.
However, he does a lot of whitewashing, and tries to posit Nietzsche as a more democratic figure than he actually was, by framing his arguments as "antipolitical," and spends a bit too much time trying to separate out Nietzsche's ideas from national socialism.
It was jarring to read Kaufmann's book on Nietzsche the same day I saw people on social media saying things like, "I am a Christian, but times have changed..." before justifying all sorts of views that Jesus himself would certainly find abhorrent.
I assume there are many people like me - we want to have a basic grasp of big ideas and the works of movers and shakers like Nietzsche, but do not have the time to wade through all his books.
People like Kaufmann do a great service then.That said, this book does make me want to give some of Nietzshce's works a shot.
Excellent. Kaufman was instrumental in reevaluating Nietzsche to Americans post WWII, and this text still stands on its own. A tome in its own right yet super readable and accessable if you have read and studied Nietzsche's corpus at any length. Would highly recommend if you are a reader of N and haven't read through this yet!
While Kaufmann did a lot for translating Nietzsche to English, he's too full of himself and anything he translates is at least 50 liner notes of him masturbating at how he knows Nietzsche better than you. This book is essentially a glorification of that.
Absolutely great insight into Nietzsche's ideas. Kaufmann thoroughly debunks all the misreadings of Nietzsche throughout the years in a clear and straightforward way. We're left with a final evaluation of Nietzsche as an "antipolitical" thinker fully against all the racist garbage his sister tried to tie to him.
I have already taken the advice from a review by Erik Graff (here) and purchased several other Kaufmann books, starting with a book on Hegel.
What I find impressive is the extent to which Kaufmann can present Nietzsche's thought as coherent, accessible and relevant.
If some of the issues addressed in this book appear dated, then a sharp correction can be found by what is said about Nietzsche on YouTube; when I quote Nietzsche in internet debates, some of the responses are clearly informed by the same prejudiced misrepresentations to which Kaufmann devotes attention.
This book is for anyone who reads Nietzsche and loves it, but doesn't really see a coherent philosophy.
Kaufmann looks at Nietzsche's entire legacy and puts together a pretty straight-forward, compelling presentation of his thought.
Kaufmann's writing is everything that Nietzsche's isn't, which is a blessing when it comes to clarity but kind of a downer in every other department.The title is a little sensationalist and misleading — this book is basically a very dense, very competent CliffsNotes.
I don't think Kaufmann would argue he's presenting the "complete Nietzsche," just a component that in the 1950s had been sorely overlooked — his actual philosophy.
This book has the reputation of being the "gold standard" of Nietzsche scholarship and after reading this book, that reputation has been rightfully earned.
Kaufmann has done a couple of big things in this book.
One, his sympathetic analysis is superb however, he does not let his sympathies cloud his objectivity as there are passages that find Kaufmann being very critical of Nietzsche.
I find that to be the mark of a true academic.
Kaufmann's work on Nietzsche is amazing.
If you want to see an example of how to write a good, academic book, this book is for you.
Doesn't get to the heart of Nietzsche's transvaluation paradox, i.e. Nietzsche as a moral philosopher is descriptive rather than prescriptive. He used a psychological determinist theory for the rise of one, or other, type of moral tendency, either indulgent or ascetic, but still offers moral prescriptions in open contradiction to the fact that such prescriptions are only spontaneous actions psychologically determined. His prescriptions against 'pity' are therefore paradoxical given his purely descriptive moral philosophy.
Always a joy to read Kaufmann. His writing is rich and punchy, passionate and highly intelligent. Here, he makes mincemeat of received myth, and of certain other philosophers and figures in the Nietzsche industry. His interpretation of Nietzsche - whose work, he insists, must be viewed as a whole - is particularly sympathetic from one who is no acolyte of the philosopher.
Badly written, rambling introduction to this crucial thinker. Get "Nietzsche : A Guide for the Perplexed" instead for a readable introduction.
He writes:The elusive quality of this style, which is so characteristic of Nietzsche's way of thinking and writing, might be called monadologic to crystallize the tendency of each aphorism to be self-sufficient while yet throwing light on almost every other aphorism.
Almost as often as not, a single passage is equally relevant to ethics, aesthetics, philosophy of history, theory of value, psychology, and perhaps half a dozen other fields.Despite Kaufmann's appreciation of this "pluralistic" style, he wants to piece together Nietzsche's aphorisms and show his thinking is coherent and systematic.
Kaufmann sees Nietzsche's perspectivism as a method by which he arrived at his positive doctrines (such as the will to power and eternal recurrence), and not as a more radical critique of philosophical thinking.
Indeed, whilst there are certainly many harsh (perhaps even shrill) comments in Nietzsche’s books, even a half-attentive reader will be struck by other, much warmer, remarks eulogising generosity, self-restraint and – perhaps above all – friendship.
His arguments are carefully constructed, backed up by quotes from the entire range of Nietzsche’s output (including notebooks and personal letters) and fleshed-out with an impressive range of scholarship.All the same, while the book certainly increased my understanding of Nietzsche I can’t help thinking something was lost in the process.
But the more Kaufmann arranges Nietzsche’s thought into a linear argument the more the magic seems to disappear.
I think Walter Kaufmann is the best guide for the Nietzsche wirter, because he really really seems to care a great deal about the topic, much more than other commentators, and he's not one of those dumbass very modern guys from France who make Nietzsche into something completely different from what he was. I recommend this book to anyone who really wants to get a good understanding of Nietzsche that the books themselves can't provide so easily.
I give it three stars only because it was too in depth for what I was after. Kaufmann is great. His style is flawless and approach engaging. The book is perhaps more suited for someone looking to study Nietzsche on an academic level, rather than an amateur reading for fun level.
Kaufmann had a great deal against him; Nietzsche’s sister had controlled his image, and she was a horrible racist twit who didn’t understand his works.
It didn’t help that he spent the last years of his life insane.Kaufmann’s book took Nietzsche and reexamined him under a different perspective, taking into account his early upbringing and all of the other events that produced him.
I was not aware that this book was the catalyst for Nietzsche being an acceptable figure to study again or that the first edition of this book is already almost seventy years old as of this review.
Despite their ability to shake up the world and cause vast slaughter, Nietzsche would have seen them as contemptible mean criminals who stood not for life as the superman would but for destruction even though they tried to create - in Hitler case it would have been the 1000-year Reich while Mussolini tried, pathetically, to recreate the Roman Empire.More than anything, I believe that Nietzsche wanted to see the human race rise far beyond the mediocrity that he saw everywhere in modern life.
https://www.eurozine.com/nietzsches-a...
This volume takes the form of an introduction, touching on Nietzsche's biography but primarily serving two roles: carefully leading the reader through the development of Nietzsche's thoughts, while at the same time defending these major themes against gross misrepresentations by Nietzsche's sister (for a while, his literary executor), the Nazi party, and scores of lazy or misled analysts.Nietzsche is--we are told from the start--"easier to read but harder to understand than...almost any other thinker." By this, Kauffman implies that the writings--in a great part aphoristic, and short--require a corpus-wide familiarity in order to demonstrate a cohesive system of philosophy.Nietzsche, like other existential philosophers is fascinating to read because one can feel a direct relevance of theory to life.
Many years ago, a graduate in political science from Cambridge who didn't understand my admiration for Nietzsche told me that he was full of himself (referring to his style in "Ecce Homo") and he never proposed anything new; instead he broke everything down and left us without a system.
But Kaufmann did it this time when he explained that Nietzsche's lack of a system was a sign of his integrity to his own approach to thinking.
To give credence to what Kaufmann has done up to this point a short history of his work is needed; he has translated nearly every book Nietzsche has written as well as various letters and notes.
Among the things he did in this current book is to demythologize what had been created about Nietzsche's personal and philosophical history, uncovering the actual relationship he had with his sister, the fact he had no relationship with the Nazi's outside of his sister creating that false association.
He allows the texts of Nietzsche to speak for themselves in emphasizing the context and time they are written.The book is paced like that of an academic biography.
A good deal of Kaufmann's energy here is devoted to confronting these prejudices and, while this needed to be done, it makes the work less relevant then some of the more current discussion of Nietzsche.
Kaufmann does address other issues of interpretation which are still being dealt with: regarding Nietzsche's treatment of Socrates, rationality, consciousness, Jesus and sublimation.
On the first three he comes out fairly conservative, yet, here I think Nietzsche has rightfully earned his infamy.
Overall, though many might not have had the opportunity to study and discuss Nietzsche had it not been for this important work, it's probably better to look into what Kaufmann ultimately enabled.
Nietzsche was just a bit more of a jerk than Kaufmann is willing to admit, which is very moving, because you love Nietzsche and you don't want him to have been a jerk, but then there's all the shitty things he said, and his contempt for weakness, and the crap about the "Blond Beast," and you're like, oh fuck it. And Kaufmann's brother was killed by the Nazi's, who hijacked Nietzsche's legacy, and here's Kaufmann himself, the greatest translator Nietzsche will ever have, defending Nietzsche with brilliance, but it isn't enough.
I'm so close to done with this book... I've been picking through it piece-by-piece for years now, but it is a great companion to Nietzsche's life and work—a kind of high-speed, PhD-level Sparknotes, I guess.Also not for the Nietzsche neophyte, this book is daunting in its density, yet surprisingly readable for the truly interested. A good distillation and interpretation of Nietzsche's life and times and how it all came together in his work.
A tough read - very dry. While the subject himself was interesting in terms of both his ideas and life, I think it could have presented in a way that made it a little easier to get through. Not bad by any means, and certainly well-researched, but just read like the longest term paper in history.
Unfortunately, Nietzsche's sister was a German nationalist anti-Semite and she inherited his works when he went insane and died young.
Kaufmann also presents the philosophy in a contextual way and shows a consistent thread.
Kaufmann also shows that Nietzsche's later crazyish works actually are consistent with his earlier and less arrogant writings, not necessarily the ravings of a madman.
As Kaufmann writes, Nietzsche respected Christ but despised Christians, respected Shopenhauer but hated Shopenhauerians, and he probably would see it as inconsistent if anyone were to call themselves a Nietzschian as it contradicts his ideals of surpassing the teachers and questioning everything, especially oneself.
Overall, this book was an excellent introduction to the thought of a philosopher that is often ambiguous and misunderstood.
However, at certain points, the book was repetitive.
Also, it is worth noting that the book provided a new interpretation of Nietzsche.
If you are more concerned with learning about the ideas of Nietzsche, rather than reading defenses of his character, then I would, once again, suggest skimming these parts.
In the end, the weak parts of the book are overshadowed by the well-researched discussions of Nietzsche’s ideas.
This book is well worth the read.
