https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7959473-american-assassin
Is no one reading this stuff before it goes to press?And I’m not that much of an anal freak, but 20 typos before page 78 is too many.The reason for my annoyance is because Vince Flynn is a great writer, and I believe I read he is dyslexic, thus he does not have a dedicated team supporting him.
Terrific drama.Vince Flynn reminds us of who we’re supposed to be, and what America is supposed to be about.
We’re the best, the baddest, the smartest, the meanest mo-fo on the planet.At least we can still have our fantasies in Vince Flynn’s Mitch Rapp novels.
I am happily addicted to Vince Flynn's books and the exploits of his truly American hero, Mitch Rapp.
My wife and daughter share my addiction, but they have not had their fix yet because I got to read Flynn's newest book first.
C'mon, it's Vince Flynn and Mitch Rapp.
This one is about how Mitch got his start in the assassin business before he became the star player in the war on terror and before there was an official war on terror.
If they ever make a movie based on a Vince Flynn book, this is one I would vote for.
Otherwise they might tick Vince and Mitch off.
Look, here's something about us diehard action-thriller fanboys - we will forgive an author's imprudence with a few weak spots in the plot now and then as long as we get our action-gasm in totality but what we don't do is tolerate preachy one-sided-win story.
this is Mitch Rapp, the one man army who is that one hope of retribution against the wrong doers, you cannot chalk that up to Irene's exceptional talent hunting skills!
One of the praises very prominently printed on my copy of this book said something to the effect that Mr.Flynn has an eye on Lee Child's action-thriller throne.
What begins as a way to deliver retribution to those responsible for the death of his high school sweetheart, turns into something so much more.
Rapp is the whole package of well honed athletic talent, no nonsense attitude, nerves of steel, quick thinking and adaptability, coupled with dogged determination and the ability to think way outside the box.
Such an autonomous attitude never goes down easily with those way above his pay grade, but it surely is warranted, making Rapp possibly one of the best that the agency’s seen in… well...
Twenty-three-year-old Mitch Rapp was recruited by Irene Kennedy into a group of highly trained yet clandestine operatives, a division of the CIA.
A top athlete, Rapp was incredibly fit and after six months of intense training, he was on his way to his first job in Istanbul.
He gave a final thought to the more than two hundred passengers who had lost their lives that day in the Pan Am Lockerbie terrorist attack – retribution was looking good.As Rapp worked his way across Europe, he finally found himself in Beirut on a mission of recovery.
Coincidentally he's picked out by Langlsey wich is like a branch of the CIA, even thought he didn't do antyhing to be noticed (ok??) and he's sent off to a six-months training of the death where he excells at everything and learns super fast because he's an athlete you know, he was super good at lacrosse in highschool and he can run at the speed of the light (ok????) and then wooish he's sent to Beirut to do his first kill (ok???????).Really.Though it has to be noted that the book actually follow 4 POVs : the russian's, switching between Ivankov and his subaltern, the Libyan's with Sayyed (who's the most developped I think, the character was gimmicky but not outrigh cliché), and two Americans : Mitch Rapp's- pfffrh that name- and Hursley's.
First, this is my first time reading a Vince Flynn “Mitch Rapp” book.
Second, I understand there was a less than stellar editing work done on this book in the series as noted in several of the Goodreads reviews I read online.
It must be noted that this is not the first book written in the series, but part of two prequel books that help explain the main character, Mitch Rapp’s, evolution into the strong character he is in the other books.
The characters, plotting, and fast moving intertwining plot lines that come together at the end were all strong points of the book.
While waiting for my copy to arrive I read that other fans had noticed more than the occasional typos in the text and were bothered by them.
It is a shame that such a great story was marred by so many glaring errors.I saw the interview with Vince Flynn after the release of the book and remembered him saying that in this prequel even he "learned things about Mitch Rapp" that he did not previously know.
The end of the book left a number of things teased or unanswered leaving me wondering if there are more prequels to come.
A decent prequel to the entire MITCH RAPP series, though i did not feel it was Flynn's best. It introduces us to the renegade agent that RAPP becomes and how he got that ice water running through his veins.
This is an excellent book, and Mr. Flynn was an exceptionally gifted writer. May he rest in peace.
Here is a simple, likable, extremely tough athletic guy willing to sacrifice his limbs and life to beat the terrorists.
And he's able, as a young guy, to show the leaders at the top how it needs to be done and how they have strayed from their real missions and directives by being too politically correct.Sort of like the warnings the drug companies have to give us on TV, there is extreme violence, graphic killing, the toughest, worst, sob drill sergeant ever, a little romance but nothing you women will enjoy, and other such fun and games.I loved it and will now go to the first in the series.
I was curious about the Vince Flynn series featuring Mitch Rapp since the books do well on the NY Times Bestseller list and I like thrillers.
Nevertheless, I read this book, and likened it to a "less well-written-than-the-Bourne-series" book.
Stereotypes and nationalism are to be expected, but I would have found this book to be better if the characters and cultures weren't portrayed in such a cardboard manner.
That being said, it did pass the time and was mildly entertaining.
I hear that this book is the basis of an upcoming film.
I hope the film avoids such broad sweeps.
”Retribution is a punishment that is morally right and fully deserved.”   This was even better than expected! It’s Tom Clancy minus the infodumps, James Bond with out the misogyny and absurdity, Jason Bourn without all the mystery - This. Was. Good.Mitch Rapp is a gifted college athlete who lost the love of his life when terrorist put a bomb on Pan Am Flight 103- it exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland. This transformed Rapp and he came to the notice of Irene Kennedy, CIA, who had been looking for
Was. Good.Mitch Rapp is a gifted college athlete who lost the love of his life when terrorist put a bomb on Pan Am Flight 103- it exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland.
This transformed Rapp and he came to the notice of Irene Kennedy, CIA, who had been looking for a special assassin due to the US’s escalating Middle East issues.I need to take a minute to admire Vince Flynn for daring to mention Iran Air Flight 655 Tom Clancy never had balls that big.I can now say the movie was an excellent update to the book and I hope they make many more.
All Vince Flynn is officially TBR!Best of the espionage action thriller genre.
Ok, how in the world have I missed this author, these characters, these books?!
You know that feeling you get when you realize you found a new (to you) outstanding author and he/she has piles of books you have not yet read?
I think I may have teared up a little, but if not an actual tear, I at least danced.
this book rocked!
It reminded me a bit of a Lee Child book where the main character is still affiliated with the military.
Great characters, deep courage and non-stop action.I cannot wait to read the next in this series!
🔪Mitch takes no shit home!🔪All the time while reading this book I will imagine Dylan O’brien, because yes.
#1 in the Mitch Rapp Series.This book was first published in 2010 and 8 years later it is to be released as a movie.I can see why producers would turn this into a movie as it is one heart pumping adrenalin rush from page one onwards.Mitch Rapp is one young man with a huge chip on his shoulders that verges on a death wish.
Six months of intensive training and Mitch is ready to be released on an unsuspecting terrorist world.By the time the terrorists know what has happened they have lost millions in funds.
In a word, superb.This is why I love reading thrillers - every now and again, you discover a new series, read the first one and make a decision halfway through that you're going to devour the rest of the author's work as fast as possible.I'd been hearing things about this series for a couple of years but other commitments kept me away.
I'd compare the international tone of these to Robert Ludlum's novels, but that would be doing Flynn an injustice as he stands tall in his own right as an author in this particular sub-genre.The 'do not disturb' sign will be well and truly on display in our household for the foreseeable future as I read the rest of the Mitch Rapp series!
4 StarsFast-paced with a tight plot, American Assassin is the introductory story (in a long and ongoing series) following CIA counter-terrorist super-spy Mitch Rapp. Although the 11th published release of the series, American Assassin is set first, chronologically speaking, and showcases how (and why) young Mitch was originally recruited by the CIA. I enjoyed the hell out of this story! Here, Flynn created an impressively written action/thriller story, featuring some damn cool characters. I'll most certainly be back for more!
This was a book that i've read, and thats it.
Also, i would not read the rest in the series.
I purely read this for the movie.
Mitch of course, but thats because he's the main character.
He's smart, but i do think that Vince Flynn is too much focused on Mitch.
Than i would have read the rest of the series, maybe :p_____________________________❀TV-SHOW OR MOVIE?This is made into a movie with Dylan o'brien.
The only reason why i wanted to read this book.
The rest of this series will not be turned into a movies.
xdTHANKS FOR READING, HAVE A GREAT DAY!!
Although I don't think many people actually follow what I say, I have to retract the criticism I made of Flynn's last few books.
Rather, I will say that he's returned to the stuff that made his earlier work great--compelling characters, amazing story lines, and a breathtaking adventure that leaves you sorry when the book ends.Flynn takes his hero, Mitch Rapp, back to the beginning, when he is a 23 year old who's just lost the love of his life to tragedy.
If you've never read a Mitch Rapp novel, this is a terrific place to start.Well done, Mr. Flynn.
Ok, so it's really mindless macho action from beginning to end, but you know what you're getting and Flynn does it well. For me, it's a break from research & writing, so it serves a useful purpose.
Vince Flynn doesn't disappoint with this superbly smart, detailed, high-action spy thriller that makes you feel that you have security clearance to even read the book.
When death comes to them the reader feels that it's just what they deserved.
Rapp gets in and out of some very tricky situations, somewhat on the par of a contemporary James Bond, because the reader knows that, in the end, he will emerge as the survivor of whatever action has taken place in the previous pages.
I'm hooked on Rapp, and can't wait to read more of his adventures!
Flimsy. Wholly lacking merit, even in the mindless "beach book" world that Flynn inhabits. Where it not for the brand he created among knuckle-draggers years before publishing became impoverished/selective, this author would never break through with this claptrap. I'm trying earnestly to write a political thriller with a modicum of merit. Flynn's only value to me is to demonstrate what to avoid.
Shallow and predictable. Don't bother, you've seen this character and read this story a hundred times before.
Rapp goes from living with his mother to an "efficient, badass killing machine" in six months, without any prior military training.
Rapp's transition into a lethal operative is built on the grief resulting from his girlfriend's death.
And my favorite gem: "You piss and moan like some miserable woman who's mad at her husband because she's no longer young and beautiful."Plus, there are issues of repetitive writing and poor pacing.
All in all, I'm going to take my "PC bullshit" and read other authors whose writing doesn't make me roll me eyes so hard I feel like I'm going to break something.
Despite the fact that this book took us back to his training and the motivation behind becoming a black ops assassin for the US government, there still seemed to be a disconnect, and barely developed relationships that don't seem to go anywhere.I gave 3 stars, which equates to "I liked it" because I think that's fair.
It's not fair when reviews focus on poor book binding or other things beyond the author's control.
However, it's worth pointing out that I think things have gotten very sloppy in editing and this is a disservice to the reader.
A quick, mostly by the numbers thriller that came to a fairly abrupt conclusion. A couple of differences including an interesting off the books scenario and a main character who doesn't have a military background make the series just intriguing enough for me to try the second book...but just barely.5/10
Yes, I am a big Mitch Rapp fan; I think anyone that has followed this blog knows I love the character as much as I enjoy some of the big names out there today.
Vince Flynn delivers a total package for anyone that is a longtime fan or someone that is just catching on to the force of nature that is Mitch Rapp.
Laid bare for all to read: the pain, the fractured life, the incredible mindset of a world class athlete turned into a raging killing machine, an American Assassin.Here is the link to the official Vince Flynn website: http://www.vinceflynn.com/index.html What are you reading today?
Perhaps because I've already read it before and this just isn't a re-read type of book for me?Either way, I am still in awe of the amazing, ass-kicking force that Mitch Rapp is.
___________________________________________________________I read this book last year and the first five or six books in the Mitch Rapp series.
I looooove him.My inspiration for reading this series was the movie adaptation coming out this Septemeber starring Dylan O'Brien.
If it weren't for Dylan's role in the movie, especially as Mitch Rapp himself (!!), I'm not sure I would have ever come across or read this book on my own.
This was my first foray into Vince Flynn's 'Mitch Rapp' series, and I have to admit, I had high hopes.
I was expecting a thoroughly enjoyable spy thriller, but was left with the less-exciting bastard child of Jason Bourne and Jack ReacherFrom piss-poor editing (typos, typos EVERYWHERE), to wooden characters, a generic plot, and the golden boy main character, Mitch Rapp, who I'm supposed to believe is the savior of the clandestine community...
This story lacked any of the imagination of other espionage thrillers.
Mostly, I was bored.It's doubtful I will ever come back to this series.
