https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172944.Devil_s_Waltz
I am so glad I took the time to read up to this book, because I think it made my reading experience much richer than it otherwise would have been.
I could appreciate the references to earlier books (always fun!), and knowing the backstory of the characters really helped inform my perspective of the action.
No one else in book group had read the previous books, and while they definitely seemed to get into the story, I kind of got the feeling that they thought the character development of the main players was lacking.
But in a book, he can tie up all of those loose ends and have a sense of closure.
Just another book I'm reading for the purpose of clearing shelf space.
Frustratingly, I can't seem to just chuck it off the bat.
It is written in a pleasant enough style, and so I keep reading in hopes that the dragging search for evidence for Munchausen by proxy will eventually become exciting.
This isn't the first book in the series, which doesn't make me any happier.
There are oblique references and reoccurring characters that I know nothing about.ETA: Meh. I was getting pissy enough with being strung along that I considered just skipping to the end.
Will not try any more books from this author.
This is my favorite of the Alex Delaware series books. I've read about a dozen of them. Great character development, suspenseful until the end, and true to the authors purpose of continuing to educate the reader on the cause and effect of tortured and traumatized childhoods.
This novel made me embarrassed to call myself a writer.
Como todos los libros de la serie protagonizada por el psicólogo Alex Delaware, me ha enganchado.
Gracias a Milo, el autor toca otro tema muy sensible en ese país y esa época.Tengo que repasar toda la bibliografía, para ver que otros libros me quedan pendientes de leer de esta serie!!!
Clinical child psychologist Alex Delaware was on a puzzling case, suspicions were raised involving Munchausen by proxy.
Obviously Cassie’s parents Cindy and Chip Jones were suspects and not the only ones on the list, some of the hospital staff raised concerns for Alex.
Deception surrounding a murdered doctor led Alex on an investigative trail with tentacles extending beyond expectations and Cassie’s life teetering in the center of it all.Using the hospital as a backdrop provided insight to the challenges facing hospitals and an excellent opportunity to present information on Munchausen.
Now, in his most frightening case, Dr. Alex Delaware may have to prove that a child's own mother or father is making her sick.Twenty-one-month-old Cassie Jones is bright, energetic, the picture of health.
Cassie's parents seem sympathetic and deeply concerned.
Yet when child psychologist Alex Delaware is called in to investigate, instinct tells him that one of them may be a monster.Then a physician at the hospital is brutally murdered.
And Alex and his friend LAPD detective Milo Sturgis have only hours to uncover the link between these shocking events and the fate of an innocent child.I enjoyed this book as I have others in the series.
In this book in the series Alex Delaware and Jonathan Kellerman takes on hospitals and the administration while trying to find an issue with a 2 year old little girl.
I found this book very fast paced and enjoyable to listen to.
Character development of that character is very well done as Sturges finds himself relegated to a desk job for an issue that happened in the prior book in the series.
I do find that the books tie closely together and although you don't have to read them in order, I would find it hard to go backwards in order.
My biggest issue with this one, is just how irritating both the child and mother was in the story.
The reader is supposed to have sympathy for the poor little kid, not be annoyed by her.One thing I thought was amusing, is both the father in the story calls his daughter Spike, and Milo calls another ex-convict Spike; I thought this was going to be the genesis of Alex and Robin's first French Bulldog also called Spike.
Also, no Frenchies show up in this story.
And Milo is always the most compelling and interesting character in the book yet again.
This book dragged on a bit for me.
While a wealthy mogul is destroying the county hospital, his granddaughter is dying in it.
Alex is brought in because Cassie's doctor suspects Munchhausen by proxy.We will go through many pages of suspecting the Mom, the nurse, the grandfather and other doctors.
The CIA will get involved at one point because they are trying to take down the Grandfather, Chuck Jones, for embezzling the hospital's pension fund.
In the end, Cassie's father was poisoning her because she wasn't his biologically, he is a psychopath and he hates his wife.
He killed their first child also.
Alex Delaware, Milo Sturgis, Cassie Jones (Cassandra Brooka), Chip Jones, Chunk Jones, Cindy Brooks Jones, Dawn Herbert, Ashmore, Stephanie.
Just a few days before Dawn Herbert's brutal murder, Alex finds that she had taken the medical chart of the dead sibling Chad Jones and not returned it.CLIMAX Alex and Milo without a solid evidence could not get an arrest warrent against Cindy.
Alex and Milo verifies the backgrounds of all suspects including Cassie's mother Cindy, nurse Vicki Bottomly and even Dr.Stephanie,as she was once arrested for drunk and drive.
Here's what I learned from this book. I don't like boring formulaic stories that make references to other books in the series that sound WAY more interesting than the one that I am currently reading.This book was the equivalent of buying a decent car and as you are leaving the dealership you find out that there was a much cooler car that you didn't see...for the same price as the one you just bought.I got buyer's remorse...and the book was GIVEN to me.
This one was interesting. I may be a little off-base, but to me, this was a change of pace from the previous Alex Delaware novels. This one is a medical thriller with less psychological imprint. As usual, the narrative and dialogue is as smooth as silk and the pages fly by.
Dr. Delaware is called in to help with a case that seems to be a standard Munchausen by proxy, but of course there is a twist and a conspiracy involved to make the story more exciting. Typical Kellerman story that I liked when I first read it years ago.
After talking with Stephanie and learning Cassie's older brother died of SIDS, Alex begins to suspect Cassie is the victim of Manchausen by Proxy - a mental illness in which symptoms are faked in children to make them appear (or actually made to become) sick.
And as Cassie continues her cycle of being brought in to the hospital and taken back home, Alex begins to also wonder if the Jones's fist baby really died of SIDS.
I think this is the book that made me decide to just start over with the series and read it from the beginning because I was confused as to how Robin came back into the picture and then I never got around to it until now.
But a large part of the joy of reading Kellerman is his ability to take on the worst kind of villains - the heartless, verminous type who live at the top of the food chain by exploiting everyone and everything around them.
Add the heartbreak of a child victimized by a ruthless, spineless predator and his cunning use of a horrible psychological disorder to further his dastardly ambitions, and you have a page-turner of the first order - the kind you have to read in one sitting.
An absorbing thriller about a little girl whose frequent crisis admissions to hospital cause her doctor to suspect her mother of Munchausen by Proxy: deliberately making the child sick to create attention and sympathy for the mother.
After just about everyone has slipped in and out of the frame, the killer is unmasked by carefully-placed cameras.The interesting theme could have been handled better.
Kellerman has an irritating habit of describing each character, even minor ones, in detail, down to the shoes on their feet.
This caused me to lose the thread and reduced my interest in places.
I might try another Kellerman before I give up, however.
It took me months to read this book however I did definitely enjoy it. It was quite long. When it was revealed who was poisoning Cassie I was quite surprised as I hadn't really suspected this character. The plot was well-developed, as is usual for Kellerman mysteries, and all the lose ends were tied up by the finale. Milo wasn't in this story very much and I sort of missed him. This book was another enjoyable Kellerman story that I could easily recommend.
Entertaining read, with lots of interesting info both about Manchausen disorder and how corporate bigwigs steal from their own companies. Or at least some of the ways they got away with it twenty-five years ago. Some of the info is outdated, and the writing style is a bit older. (The term I learned today is "information dump".) But on the whole, I enjoyed this. It was worth every bit I spent on it (free pile).
DissatisfiedThe plot idea was so good that I was really hopeful however way too much time was spent on meaningless scene description and visual character description. The plot fell very flat, felt like I was waiting the whole time. Also, I am a therapist and this character was infuriating and underdeveloped.
It's been a long while since I read J Kellerman. I recall them being gritty and addictive. This story line was Munchausen by proxy. A very difficult read, coupled with a lot of details that kept me from the end and closure. Still a good book, and I intend to read more of his books.
Love this book...but I love all his books. Kept me guessing. Chose this rating because the book was that good. If you are an Alex Delaware fan you’ll really like this one. Loved this book....but I love all Alex Delaware books. If you are a fan this is a book for you
Read the whole book but think I need to give up on J. Kellerman. I tried another one awhile ago and didn't finish it. Did finish this one though hoping I'd start liking it, but just too much unnecessary detail and couldn't get into most of the characters.
I love that I can't figure out whodunit before the author reveals it. Seven books into series and I have no idea. Other authors I read big series I usually get a feel for them and can narrow it down to one or 2 suspects.
An easy to read book. If you enjoy Kellerman's Alex Delaware character, you will enjoy this one. Everything fit, the plot was well developed, and the bad guys were bad, not dumb, but cunning and plenty evil.
Love Kellerman/Alex Delaware books!Thought I had read them all but somehow missed this one. And what a good book it was. Love all the characters and the plots are amazing. Can't wait for future books.
just another Alex Delaware book i couldnt put down.. I love this series and cant wait to keep reading.
Quick read. Nothing great
Just when you think you have it figured...........well......just keep reading........
Intriguing.......a difficult subject ........an unexpected conclusion
