https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/499225.Nine_Days_to_Christmas
It is a Christmas story and it's a very different kid of Christmas story.
It is about, Ceci, a little girl gets her very own pinata for her first Posadas.
These are special Christmas parties 8 days before Christmas, one per day at a different house.
They include a pinata.
Ceci picks out a star.
There is like a myth with this star.It is a wonderful story.
I didn't think a whole lot of the art.
There was a whole lot of beige which I don't like.
It is a longer story.
The kids grew restless and they both gave it 2 stars.
4.5 STARSA charming, sweet story about the posadas (special parties leading up to Christmas) and little Ceci getting to hold her very first one, with all the excitement and impatience that comes along with waiting for something special.
The most exciting part of this is that she will have a pinata and gets to choose her very own.
Ceci's emotions and imagination were easy for me to relate to and I especially empathized with her crisis at the end and felt that the resolution was beautiful, capturing both the magic of Christmas and the wonder of childhood.
Awarded a Caldecott Medal in 1960, this lovely Christmas tale from co-authors Marie Hall Ets and Aurora Labastida follows the story of young Ceci, a Mexican girl who is excited to learn that she is to host her very first posada, or Christmas party.
When the posada finally comes however, Ceci isn't sure how she feels about her lovely star pinata being broken apart...Although Ets was an established children's author in the 1950s and 60s, and wrote and illustrated a number of picture-books, her co-author, Aurora Labastida, who was a librarian at the U.S. embassy in Mexico City during the period, only ever worked on this one book.
It will be held nine days before Christmas, and means a whole new array of experiences for Ceci.
For Ceci, the piñatas in the Mexican market come to life, and when they discover that she is a girl on the verge of celebrating her first posada, each one of the piñatas clamors to be her choice; after all, they know that somehing very special can happen to a piñata chosen by a girl for her very first posada, because it will be a piñata that she loves.
The subtitle is: A Story of Mexico, and this picture book details the preparations and festivities surrounding las posadas, a procession and celebration of Joseph and Mary seeking shelter in Bethlehem.
This is a charming story, and the illustrations by Ets are wonderfully detailed.
Labastida was the children’s librarian at the Benjamin Franklin Library in Mexico City.
My only complaint about this Caldecott-winning picture book, is that most of the drawings are almost uniformly gray, except for a few highlights of bright color – a shawl, Ceci’s hair ribbons, a striped awning, etc.
I was surprised by how much I liked this book.
At first glance, the artwork was totally not my style.
But as I read and really looked at the pictures, I noticed and enjoyed the delicate detail of the pictures, yet with the simple feel that supports the story nicely.And the story, oh, it is cute.
The little girl, kindergarten age, wants to know what it is like for the ducks in the pond, so she fills the bathtub and gets in and tries quacking...
and it almost makes me want to fill my tub and try quacking myself.
Wow I really enjoyed reading this story! First of all because I am Mexican and I know all about the Christmas tradition. Ceci the main character which is a little girl made the story fun. She couldn't wait for the day of her posada to come. I really liked how she chose a star pinata for her posada because like the story explained, the star lead the three wise men to Jesus. This story brought me good memories and I really liked how I can relate to this story. Overall, I really like the whole story and illustrations as well!
I liked most of the artwork in this Caldecott Medal book, but really didn't care for the style of the piñatas which seemed cartoonish and a bit out of place next to the drawings of people and everyday scenes. I enjoyed the story and reading about the Mexican Christmas tradition of Las Posadas from the point of view of a little girl, though we read it a bit late since it takes place before Christmas!
This fabulous picture book might seem a bit outdated, but it does a great job of telling an authentic story based in Mexico in English, explaining a couple of traditions like 'las posadas' and 'las piñatas' to children unfamiliar with how Mexicans celebrate Christmas.
While she laments its being broken, the star surprises her at the end by turning into a real star (which apparently happens to each piñata chosen by a little girl holding her first posada).The message of the story is a bit hokey, but overall it is a great introduction to Mexican culture (specifically that which surrounds this important holiday) for students/children unfamiliar with such themes.
Unfortunately it is out of print.Ceci is a kindergartner who is finally old enough to stay up for a Mexican Christmas celebration called "Posadas," celebrated for nine days at the homes of different families with the final party on Christmas Eve.This lucky little girl gets to have her own pinata!
The story covers her anticipation and excitement, a day of shopping for the pinata, and the event itself.The illustrations are pen and ink with splashes of pink, orange and yellow.
But the book could also have been set in a Mexican city.Typically, five-year-old Ceci is enchanted with her pinata and cries when it gets broken to release the treats inside.
This story however also uses pink which adds orange and browns to the spectrum as well.
The story is set in Mexico in the 50's and is about a little girl's first posada.
I like it for it's depiction of culture as well as having a more universal story about imagination and love that is not unlike the Velveteen Rabbit.
One thing that strikes me about the story is that they fill the pinata with oranges and lemons in addition to candy and peanuts.
Anyway, I love this story and someday would like to have a posada of my own.
Having lived in Texas many years and in San Antonio specifically, it is fun to see Los Pasadas portrayed in this way.
There are many good things about this book and it was probably pretty amazing for its time, but there are certainly better ways to learn about the Mexican culture than this book now.
There were things here and there that just struck me as being not quite okay.
The dedication actually started me on the wrong foot with the thanks to "all the little Mexican friends and relatives." I kind of cringed with the "little." Perhaps they truly meant little children, but....Anyway, the following post explains it well - http://labloga.blogspot.com/2007/07/w...
Another holiday themed children's book. The illustrations for this one are deceptively simple and remarkably evocative. The story wasn't that interesting to me but might engage a child or even another reader. For more and for further exploration suggestions:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/12/cal...
Beautiful chalk drawings on gray paper. A long story (picture) book about a little girl in a well to do family in Mexico city. (the maid figures prominently in the story.) Little girl is going to have her first Posada and she is so excited. Very clear picture of daily life in this town. Sweet ending.
Don't ask me why this was one of my favorites as a kid, except it is magic.
Some problematic stereotypes, but, likely groundbreaking for the time.
It seems to be a bit hit or miss with some of Mexican heritage not having a problem with the book and others upset by the number of sombreros, sandals and so on.
The whole thing was just sort of 'meh' for me.
It felt like there was an attempt to get it right and it's not as crazy bad as say "Tikki Tikki Tembo", but, it doesn't meet the expectation for modern multicultural literature.
Definitely quite wordy, illustrations are a bit drab for modern children.
Recommended for those reading all the Caldecott winners.
Written and illustrated by Marie Hall Ets, Nine Days to Christmas: A Story of Mexico won the 1960 Caldecott Medal.
This was my first read of the book; I thoroughly enjoyed both the story and illustrations.
The plot is well-developed, and this would be a great book for children to begin exploring themes in literature.
The entire scene is illustrated using pencil lines and shading, however the birds, cat, and Ceci are painted with bold colors.
This is Ets’ style throughout the story.
The plot is developed enough for schools to use the book for reading programs and create a short quiz.
i. Summary: Nine days to Christmas tells the story of a five-year-old girl named Ceci.
Ceci was about to have her first posada which is a special Mexican Christmas party celebrated nine days before Christmas.
It is very hard for the young girl to impatiently wait for this moment, yet towards the end, it was totally worth it – the posada and the piñata were all a success.
It was really hard for Ceci to plan for her first posada and choose her first piñata as she couldn’t contain her eagerness.
Moreover, I really enjoyed learning about the Mexican traditions and celebrations through the eyes of a 5-year-old girl.
Nine Days to Christmas: A Story of Mexico 5 out of 5 Stars  The book was illustrated in a unique way. Pencil and charcoal drawings were used so that there were varying shades of black and gray. Parts of each illustration were brightly colored pink, orange, and yellow. All illustrations were on a creamy colored background, while the text popped out at the reader on a solid white background. Because the images were drawn and shaded with pencils or charcoal, there was a great sense of depth and dim
Nine Days to Christmas: A Story of Mexico 5 out of 5 Stars 	The book was illustrated in a unique way.
All illustrations were on a creamy colored background, while the text popped out at the reader on a solid white background.
The text did an outstanding job of informing the reader about unfamiliar vocabulary words, such as posada and tortilla.
It may be difficult to hold the attention of students at a younger age because of the length of the book.
The drawings had great dimension and the text was informative.
For a language arts lesson, students could learn vocabulary words involved with Mexican traditions.
This is a great holiday children's picture book that can teach students about the Christmas tradition in the Mexican culture.
The themes of the story is coming of age, as well as holiday tradition.
This would be a great book to include during the holiday time to explore other culture's traditions.
After reading this book, and possibly others about Christmas or holidays, students could tap about their own holiday traditions from their home.
Another activity could be making their own piñata in the shape they would choose if they has a posada, because art projects are always a hit in the classroom and help the students further understand the story in a crafty way.
In this story a girl is excited about getting a piñata for her party but is worried she won’t get one so she talks to her doll Gabina.
When her mom takes her to the store to finally get a piñata, she brings her doll with her to pick one out.
She falls in love with the gold star piñata and brings it home but when it’s finally time to break it, she doesn’t want anyone touching it.
Just the fact that she was so worked up about her piñata was really cute to me.
The story starts with young Ceci learning she will have a posada before Christmas this year- her first one.
After that, the story gets back on track and Ceci picks out her favorite piñata for the party.
The story ends with her posada.I liked how the story had different Mexican culture features interwoven through the story.
We learned something out Mexican culture while reading a fun fiction picture book.
The black and white background with colorful foreground is effective in making the people, piñatas, and other story features (fruit, flowers) pop.
They accurately reflect the time period and culture.
Nine Days to Christmas is a Mexican story book.
It is about a little girl named Ceci who has to wait nine days until her posada; a special Christmas party.
You follow the little girl through the nine days while she waits for the special Christmas party.
Finally, on the day before the party, Ceci and her mom go to the market to look for a piñata.
But there is one piñata in particular that stands out to Ceci- and it’s a big bright yellow star.
The illustrations in this story are done very well and look as if they are sketched with pencil.
Ceci is a five-year-old girl who lives in Mexico and has never been to a posada.
You see Ceci waiting 21 days till she can finally have her posada and pick out her own Piñata.
She picks out a golden star that she thinks is so beautiful.
It is finally the day of her posada and it’s time to break the piñata.
Ceci hears a whisper and realizes that her broken piñata turned into a real star, so it wasn’t actually broken.
It would be a great book to use during the holiday season to help show students how others may celebrate the holiday season.
It was about a little girl named Ceci who is kindergarten aged, and has been promised that she gets to have a party (a Posada) nine days before Christmas, which in Mexico (where the story takes place) it is a tradition to have parties nine days before Christmas.
I felt that the illustrations did a great job of portraying the important parts of the story that the author wanted to the readers to notice.
My only critique is that I felt that the story was a bit long, I started to lose interest very fast, but other than that it as a great read!
Ceci's first time to market to get a posada which is used to broke at Christmas Day made her so excited.
I can still remember the how excited I was that day, I couldn't fall asleep at night and just thought what I want to buy tomorrow.
So the first time Ceci chose a big star and put lots of good things in it though she didin't want anyone to break her big star.
Every child is very excited that day and purchase something they want and show them to other children.
In children's view, gifts they purchased by themselves are the best gifts for the festival.
Nine Days to Christmas is a traditional literature book that has been around for over 30 years.
The book tells the story of Christmas in Mexico in English.
The story describes the culture of the town and "las posadas" tradition, a ritual of festivities nine days before Christmas.
The pictures engages the students the while the teacher is reading the book.
The story also teaches the students important lessons of being patient and not rushing things.
The authors also included Spanish words in the book to allow the audience/students to connect to the story and learn about the Spanish culture.
Nine Days to Christmas: A Story of Mexico is a delightful tale of a young girl who lives in a Mexican town.
Ceci is in kindergarten and is now old enough to have a party at her house.
The story describes the culture of the town and "las posadas" tradition, a ritual of festivities nine days before Christmas.
The posadas remind the children of the Christmas story, when Mary and Joseph travelled to Bethlehem where Jesus was born and how the Holy Family was turned away at many inns.
The plot involves Ceci awaiting the party and preparing for it.
The first thing that I noticed in this book was the illustrations as the pictures are all drawn in pencil with punches of color added in.
Marie Hall Ets. did an amazing job not only with the illustrations but picking parts of the picture that had the pop of color.
Throughout the illustrations Hall picks important structures of the Mexican culture, to color which helped explain the story so much more.
This is something the students could also see, as the important structures, and objects are colored which could create great discussion in the class about different cultures!
The story was a little long-winded in places and kind of went off-topic, but overall was well-done.
The story is about a girl in kindergarten named Ceci who is finally old enough to have her first posada, which is the search that Mary and Joseph take when looking for a place for Mary to have baby Jesus.
Ceci picks a golden star-shaped pinata but is sad when her partygoers must destroy it.
The star tells her not to be sad because it has turned from a pinata into a real star, and it is all thanks to her.
