https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44811.The_Major_Works
DNF at 80%. I really enjoyed A Woman of No Importance and Lady Windermere's Fan, but felt meh about the other plays, discourses, fairy tales and poetry. I might reread those two preferred plays and The Picture of Dorian Grey in the future, but I don't need this poorly formatted bind up to do so.
distinctive at parts
Still, as I read his major plays this winter (trying to pick one for the Brit Lit course) and reread The Picture of Dorian Gray (in order to put it on the extra credit list), I found I still can't quite get my mind around Wilde—can't settle the question of why his work fascinates and disturbs me while remaining ever beyond my endorsement.
Still, I find that Wilde's work pricks at my own complacency, that I can't read him without laughing at myself and without brooding over the world's almost unbearable insanity.
Currently in this compilation I have only read The Importance of Being Earnest, and I would like to individually review each play in addition to the book as a whole when I have finished reading all of the plays.
I thoroughly enjoyed Earnest.
I found it to be witty and funny, and Wilde's plays on words and dialogue to be genus.
I thoroughly enjoyed each and every one of the unique characters and how Wilde managed to connect them through a series of unfortunate meetings and believable coincidences.
I LOVE OSCAR WILDE DETAILED AND CAREFUL WRITTINGI ENJOY THE PEACE HE WRITES WITH AND HIS KNLOLEDGEOF HUMAN DESIRES.I GOT SCARED WHEN READING DORIAN GRAY.BUT THIS FANTASY IS AS CURRENT AS FAUSTO.
This was a wonderful collection of Wilde's works.
It included 5 of his plays and some critical essays.
I found the plays to be quite witty and most enjoyable.
An Ideal Husband was another favorite though I found all of his plays quite entertaining.
Wilde’s play on words and his portrayal of Victorian society really showcases his genius.
He had a gift for revealing the hypocrisies of fashionable society.
This book also contained two interviews with Wilde at the peak of his career and some of his critical writings where he discusses the nature of art.
I've always liked Wilde, but I was shocked by just how much I loved this collection. "The Importance of Being Earnest" in particular is a work of comic genius. However, reading his plays one after another, I was struck by the common thread between them; Hidden behind all the wit is a sense of compassion for human fallibility that was completely unexpected. It's such a beautiful sentiment, I find it a pity that everyone tends to be too dazzled by the cleverness and charm to notice.
I read this book as I was already a fan of The Ballad of Reading Gaol and what I knew of The Importance of Being Earnest, and was interested in reading The Picture of Dorian Gray.
However, I found the Picture of Dorian Gray would have benefited from being around 100 pages shorter, and I found the dialogues dragged, particularly The Decay of Lying - although I did think Wilde had some interesting things to say in them.
In the end, I am now a fan of The Importance of Being Earnest, The Ballad of Reading Gaol, The Happy Prince and the poems in prose.
I haven't actually read any Oscar Wilde, but am very familiar with two movie productions of two of the plays in this collection (An Ideal Husband and The Importance of Being Earnest).
The biggest differences seemed pretty minor to me and actually make me like the movies better than the plays (but not by much).
On the downside I didn't really love the other plays in the book, especially Salome and Lady Windermere's Fan and A Woman of No Importance seemed to just build up to the funnier, better plays.
I would definitely read An Ideal Husband and The Importance of Being Earnest again, but I would probably skip everything else in this collection.
I did not read the whole book, I merely chose it because it contained a good handful of Wilde's poetry, plays and also his essays and fairy tales.
I intended to flip through it and read what interested me.
I had already read The Picture of Dorian Gray.I thoroughly enjoyed reading the two poems, they reminded me of some old Icelandic poems I have read with the way they danced and swayed in their rhythm.
It taught me the proper way to pronounce some words I wasn't sure about before.
I'll read more of Wilde's works in the future.
What a writer! What a thinker!! Somehow he always says the opposite of what you would've expect, but somehow it always makes even more sense and is truer.I loved The Importance of Being Earnest and An Ideal Husband. 5 stars love. That's rare. Didn't like as much Salomé, Lady Windermere's Fan and A Woman of No Importance. Can't wait to read more though and be surprised again by his vision of the world and society.I think I discovered in Oscar Wilde a new favorite writer of mine!
A good collection of Wilde's most read works which has fallen short off being the Wilde collection. Wilde's works are majorly short and this book could have easily become the complete works of Wilde, had the rest of his works been included.
I loved this book. A real insight into the evil men/ women do and how the soul shows the wear. Whether the external face reveals the truth or not, our conscience haunts us. Wilde was a brilliant writer, witty and wise.
Compilation of all his major works. Must read "Picture of Dorian Gray." Witty, intelligent, amusing. His theory of aesthetics is tantalizingly subversive, so be careful!Been semi-looking for "De Profundis." If anyone has, please lend me!
Oscar Wilde nos demuestra lo terrible que pueden llegar a ser las personas, el dolor que causamos, los estereotipos, lo egoístas y ególatras que podemos llegar a ser, no cabe duda que con estas narraciones te pondrás a reflexionar en todo momento, por eso 5 estrellas.
For some reason I'd managed to skip Wilde entirely despite a degree in English Lit. I don't think he'll ever be one of my favourite writers but he certainly had a lot to say for himself. Worth a read but the stuff on criticism was pretty hard going.
The Picture of Dorian Gray
Good plays, characters that come alive.
Five stars on the prose alone. Very elegant.
If you read this in high school you should read it again. Complex portrayal of aesthetics and the role of art, neatly packaged in a melodramatically compelling novel.
An eery tale of a dark prideful "soul" told by the master story teller Oscar Wilde. Creepy but thought provoking.
I am loving this book.
I absolutely enjoyed reading Wilde's work. Witty dialogues about life - often very contemporary.
I bought the whole works collection in Southern France in the summer of '98. Why?... Because it was so cheap, and who doesn't like the HAPPY PRINCE?
Intersting way to express how the events in our life shape our character. Oscar Wilde is a masterful author. I really enjoyed this book.
The Best Known Works of Oscar Wilde by Oscar Wilde (1940)
A gripping, page-turning novel of ideas!
a twisted, tasty treat.
What the hell was I thinking not reading this before?
Just bought this thick collection from National Bookstore for only 99 pesos. Would read sometime this week.
