https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19534.The_Brothers_K
In an interview, Duncan mentioned a bond with Wallace, citing a quote by the latter: “Few artists dare to try to talk about ways of working toward redeeming what’s wrong, because they’ll look sentimental and naive to all the weary ironists.
In an interview he said, “I think a lot of fundamentalists are wounded people whose hurt makes them want the world to be much simpler than it really is.
The Brothers K gets there by way of imperfect, but striving characters who are reminded by the wise ones among them that respect and love by themselves can make for a pretty good religion.
I have spent a lot of time trying to formulate a persuasive review for this book.I could tell you this: that everyone I've ever recommended it to who has read it has really, really loved it.
They just made me feel more alive.I could say that it is my choice for the 'Great American Novel.' I could point out that if you scroll through the reviews for this book on goodreads, they are overwhelmingly four or five stars and often use words like 'favorite', 'best', and 'perfect.' I could tell you that my cat is named after a character in this book.
I used to recommend this book even more to people I knew loved baseball, but on my recent third re-reading of it I have to say I don't think it matters.
And how in Duncan's novel, I also identify something hopeful, something that feels eternal, immortal, divine...otherworldly in the way he shows us the long, unfolding paths these brothers follow and the way they are ready to sacrifice themselves for the sake of others, giving example of what's the true meaning of courage, honor and ultimately, of love.I know all these rambling thoughts might sound stereotypical, but believe me, they are not.This novel has changed my perspective in every possible way, some of its details will always stay with me and either blurred by unshed tears or repressed by fits of laughter, I'm taking memorable souvenirs from this epic journey; although now that I am back home and have time to cherish these new mementos I realize my own generation still has a lot of growing up to do.
Aside from having fictitious siblings (an extra brother, and where in Ivan’s name did those two twin sisters come from) I must admit I enjoyed reading this book, based on my own family.
But now, having finished the read, the memory of that experience has dissipated just a bit.
And for sure, it’s a lot more fun than I would suppose Dostoevsky’s novel is (I’ve never read it).Two men playing gorodki, Moscow, USSR, 1935So, Duncan’s book (in which he actually refers to Dostoevsky’s in a few places) has a mother who is an increasingly rabid Christian, and a dad who’s a good deal more uncertain about religion.
That's serious subject matter, but the book is actually very funny with several laugh-out-loud moments.The novel features a mother who is a strict Seventh Day Adventist and fanatically devoted to her church.
When the eldest begins his dinner table prayer with "Dear God, if there is one..." the mother has a violent reaction and a family war ensues.
The book had way too much baseball for me to ever call it a "favorite" and there were certain characters I just didn't care about.
But alas: not with me.To be more serious, I felt the tempo/writing style of the novel was uneven and not always so pleasing--the main narrator is the younger brother Kincaid, and the majority of the time the POV is first-person limited.
I kept thinking, "I should be reading the Brothers Karamazov instead!" What DID I like, you ask?
It was fun to read a novel set in Washington State; I enjoyed that the book was set around the divisive time of the Vietnam War; and I enjoyed that the mother was a seventh day Adventist--what a crazy way to be Christian, ya'll.
This was one of the most satisfying books I've read this year, and I'm kind of sad now that it ended...
It was a wonderful heart-warming, silly, uplifting, depressing, funny, soul-crushing journey in the company of great characters, laugh-out-loud humor, multilayered stories, family love, history, baseball, war, religion, philosophy and 60's era politics.
I too loved this terribly dysfunctional family, even the matriarch whom I would have liked to slap a time or two.
This is the deceptively complex story of an American family.
Their childhoods shaped by the family's two passions: baseball and religion.
Their adulthoods shaped by the family's own small bundle of insecurities and conflicts, and the overwhelming nightmare of Vietnam.
I'm a Canadian agnostic who doesn't like baseball, and I loved it.
The characters change and grow as the novel goes on, and the story is both epic and personal, just like the story of any family.
I loved The Brothers K and think it should be more readily available, but since it's not, you owe it to yourself to track it down and read it.
This isn't just a coming of age story centered around a baseball family.
It is not a novel without flaws- the Chance boys Psalm war with their mother gets old after a while, and the rescue mission at Mira Loma is a little strange- but these are just a couple of minor complaints within 650 pages of greatness.
Reminded me a little bit of Moby Dick in that sense.It's difficult to pinpoint what exactly makes this novel so great, but I know that every time I sat down to read a few chapters, I had to get up and go give my four month old son a hug.
I've read this novel twice, and it only *just* got edged out by The Corrections as my favorite book of all time.
Like Franzen's novel, this is one of those mystical "crossover" books -- great fun for both boy and girl readers.
But while Franzen's writing is crystalline in quality and psycho-putrid in tone, Duncan's novel is, yes, a masterpiece, both in its style and in its ability to convey emotionally such a wide range of family successes and disappointments.
I'm amazed that more people haven't read this book.
Maybe that will offset the length issue .
Every seventy pages or so, it seemed it was getting better and soon would become very good, indeed--at which point the author stumbled-in yet again with a fresh inanity to destroy the mood, the moment, all caring.Many words would be necessary to describe the impatience and frustration caused by this ebb and flow of great expectation and smashed hope.
I have not read The Brothers K a second time since forcing myself through it some 20 years ago, nor do I plan to ("fool me once," etc.), so I will never discover if my perception of it has changed for the better.
Big great authors are often quoted - which is a thing I love, books quoting books.There is also a lot of religion in there; mostly creating friction among characters having different religious opinions – the Bible is the most quoted and misquoted book.
Almost all characters who aren't in army are against war.But above them all, it is story of a family surviving through their differences and problems created by fate, religion, war and their own mistakes as the four brothers live their lives.
Their father is a baseball player and the mother is a deeply religious Christian – two things they inherit and lose.
Some of the passages may seem extraneous at first, but none of it is; it's impressive how well-structured this novel is.It's been awhile since I read Dostoyevsky's "The Brothers Karamazov" but even I could tell the parallels are intentional of course, though not complete of course, (the K in the title is also because of a baseball scoring symbol, as I expected) but that doesn't take away from the originality of the world Duncan has created, though both novels do seem to contain 'everything.'I don't think you need to be a baseball fan to enjoy this book.
You can do it if you just remember to crawl, right while you're burning, to drag yourself if that's what it takes, clear up into those mountains inside you, and on down into those cool, pure lakes." (211)"I only know that the one thing, perhaps the only thing we can always be certain of, is that our lives will turn out very differently, and very much more darkly, than most of us ever dream as children." (214)Oh Peter and his learning style.
It's that grand in scope and that impressive in the diverse prose styles and voices he uses to tell his story.
That story is a family saga encompassing love, family, war, religion, the current events of the Vietnam Era, and, yes, baseball.
By refining his characters and narrative in the blast furnace of those tumultuous years of our country's history, Duncan paints a portrait of the times and has much to say about them.Maybe The Brothers K can't be included among the great novels.
Maybe not great, but a reading experience that will delight you in many ways.
9.5 on a 5 point scale.
I've been intentionally tight fisted with my 5-star ratings, reserving them for books I've found exceptionally life-enhancing, knowledge-widening, comprehension-giving, paradigm-challenging, soul-enriching &/or breath-taking.Nevertheless The Brothers K has shattered the 5 star ceiling so thoroughly there's not a trace of debris to suggest it ever existed.
Hence 7 points.
I'll leave elucidating comments about the book itself to reviewers better able than I to discern & describe nuances in theme, tone, character development, point of view, etc.
Because of The Brothers K I am about to do something I've never done before.
You think, "Eh. That was okay, or pretty good-- or yes, I liked it but I have nothing more to say on the subject."I'm hesitant to write a review for this book.But for none of the reasons listed above.My fear is that any words I attempt to use will only detract from the beauty of Mr. Duncan's already flawless prose-- which, in my opinion, should speak only for itself.My friend Les said he's never been able to give a definitive answer to the "What's your favorite book" question, simply because there are too many from which to choose....until he read this.I'm joining his camp.I've never been so moved as I have by this story-- these characters.Now, if you'll excuse me, I think I'm going to go and see if the Brewers are playing today...(for those of you who know me well enough to know where my sports fanaticism usually lies, that speaks volumes all by itself).
Seriously).So, the lame review stands.And my adoration of David James Duncan increases with each read.________________________________________Sometimes I don't even want to review a book.You know how it is.
You read it.
But the truth is that I haven't had this much fun reading a book in a long time, and that includes Tom Drury's The End of Vandalism, which I loved.
And I haven't read Dostoevsky's Brothers Karamazov, after which, I'm assuming, this book is fashioned (there are direct references to the Dostoevsky that I'm afraid went sailing right past me.
I don't even know what the plot of that book is).
But for now, I'm going to read some smaller books.Thanks to Robert for giving me this terrific novel.

Another reaffirmation of why I love novels, especially LONG novels with richly drawn characters that I feel I KNOW.
I FEEL them.
As crazy as this may sound, I found myself wanting to spend more time with them than, well, you know...But then, this isn't so crazy.
This is the reason we read literature, so that we can immerse ourselves and experience their lives as if they are real.
The Chance family IS real to me.
It brought to mind the same extremities of life I experienced when reading Cutting for Stone, or A Prayer for Owen Meany.
LOVED this book.
It reminded me that religion can be beautiful, and that faith can come along with questions and sanity.
Joon grew exhausted, fell asleep, and the Lord showed him nothing!And he also reminds that (almost if not all) religions are quite upside down, but it is much easier to want to be part of it when it comes from the right place.
Instead of being forced to it, people would want to come closer if the religion and its messengers would be more welcoming:They had no power, and wanted no power.
So it's fall and I decided to read a baseball themed book.
Baseball is one of those sports that is a strange blend of physical, psychological, and zen and I think it makes for a good story backdrop.
The Brothers K is the great American novel of the late 20th century that you have never read.
What happens when you mix a baseball playing father with a Seventh-day Adventist mother?
I have never read "The Brothers Karamazov" so I cannot draw any parallels, I will leave that to the fancy NYT reviewers.
My brother gave me this baseball-riveted, family demi-epic as a birthday present last year, and thankfully it arrived with a verbal "won't disappoint" label pronounced enough to overcome my fictional apathy.
One year later and I'm as obsessed with 19th century Russian lit as Duncan's aptly- (and self-) named Natasha.
So The Brothers K did more than simply reignite my literary passion- it focused it in a very specific direction that time has revealed, unequivocally, to be nothing short of blissful.
Alright.
Some people like subtle stories that reflect real life and try to tell a story in which not a lot happens.
The characters are amazing.
The father is still my favorite character in any book, ever.
Ultimately Duncan suceeds in writing a page turner that is also beautifully written, and thought provoking.
The first time I read it I actually put it down after 100 pages or so.
I'm not sure why, as I think the first 100 pages are great.
I remember reading the last 200 pages in one go, resenting every necessary trip to the bathroom.
I cannot explain why I loved this book so much except to say that I connected with it on some deep, perhaps subconcious level.
This is the only book I've ever read that made me cry, really cry rather than shed a few tears.
I confess I remember little about the plot, but I can recommend this book for the beautiful, vivid, unusual, honest writing style.
Also the book alternatives between the narratives of each brother, and one comes away feeling deeply for each brother.
I feel like I just crossed the finish line of a marathon... I think this is a fine work of fiction, there is much to appreciate. There are also so many descriptions and explanations and words used to do them that it just plain wore me out. I could go on and on, but I'll leave that to the author.
My boyfriend gave me this book as a birthday gift.
To me, the book is a metaphor for the family and friends I've loved, ultimately.
And it reminds me, again, that love is something we feel not for perfect people who fulfill all our hopes and needs -- it's for people who have the bravery to be flawed with us, and who make us feel safe being as flawed.
Because love just makes us see each other with better eyes than we have for ourselves alone.
It isn't a difficult or demanding read, per se, but challenges you to be there, in the family, in the moment, in order to be rewarded for your efforts.
That's what I think so far, anyway.Last night I read a passage that hit me hard, the passage about the atomic bomb video.
It seems like a pretty interesting smash-up of limited first-person P.O.V. and third-person omniscience where somehow the narrator's character and plot get lost in the big family shuffle.
Is Kade the least interesting brother, or does he just not enjoy talking about himself?
When I was in college I had a professor talk about the literature that occupied a space on his shelf that he considered, semi-sacred, essentially his literary scriptures that imbued life with meaning and taught one how to live.
This book is the kind of book that belongs on that shelf.A review on GoodReads couldn't do the story or the writing justice.
First and foremost, this is a great story about the Chance family.
Only after you sit with the novel or on re-readings does the literary shadows add emphasis and depths to the fictional family taking the novel into the literary scripture realm.
