https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/271114.The_Making_of_the_Middle_Ages
After this brief appearance he vanished from history, and the whole incident might be dismissed as one of those inexplicable approaches of worlds moving in different orbits and disturbing for a moment the even tenor tenor of their course, were it not for what followed.
I really appreciate Dr. Southern's work.
Augustine, Anselm and Boethius appear to be the heroes in this text.
I also appreciated Southern's characterization of the opposition between Byzantines and the Latin West: the obscure rituals of the former appearing to the latter like a visit to the Kremlin.
That aside this is a wonderful text.
An acknolwedged classic of european history, R.W. Southern's "The Middle Ages" focuses on the period between 900 and 1200 A.D. His geopgraphic focus is mostly northern france, with some asides to Germany, Italy, Southern France and England.
Cantor in his dishy "The Making of the Middle Ages", which I also recommend for any one who is reading on this subject outside the academy.
So read this book if you want to learn more about the history of the middle ages and the growth of invdividualism in the west.
This was a favorite text from one of my undergraduate history courses and I have owned it for so long that the Yale University Press paperback edition that cost me $2.45 so many years ago is no longer in print.
I'm glad the book is still available, because it is a small (less than 300 pages) gem of intellectual history.
During this period of not quite 250 years Western Europe experienced major intellectual, political and religious growth that led to the flowering of the period known as the Middle Ages.
Knights, incidentally, evolved in this period from simply men of violence, who could exercise control through their physical violence, to become increasingly incorporated into local government, subject to controls and regulation which permitted the progression of society from chaos to the order of the feudal world.
The book then examines the changing organisation of the Christian Church, and considers a variety of innovations that later - in the Reformation - would be seen in a new and negative light.
The book also describes in some detail the development of monastic life and rule, primarily the rule of St Benedict but later the emergence of others such as the Cistercians.
And with fits and starts, knowledge of things like Rhetoric (thanx Gerbert!) and Logic (thanx Gerbert!) through intermediaries (thanx Boethius!) and shut-in copyists from Malta and Sicily to the Pyrenees, Burgundy to Ireland.
. .But the reality, despite the mammoth tasks of running one of these cloisters or cathedral complexes that took care of a communities health care and trade needs and so much else, despite all this is that there were rudiments of knowledge that were only beginning to be understood.
The German societies of Victorian England were quickly forgotten after WWI, presenting something of an embarrassment and a little of that is present here too.Southern sets out in this book to write a history of European thought of the eleventh and twelfth centuries (a fact at once obvious and obscured by the title as we read it today).
It is, however, a very well written history of a Mediaeval Europe.Southern succeeds in throwing light onto the Latin Church (particularly in Northern France) in the eleventh and twelfth centuries in a way that is both engrossing and inspiring.
The humanization of Christ (born from the changes in monasticism wrought by St. Anselm and St. Bernard), the birth of a new piety of interiority, the move in the arts and in literature from epic to romance -- nothing less than this -- the origins of the modern subjective self, which Southern traces to the new monasticism of the 12th cen -- is the thesis of this final chapter (of which all the earlier chapters are simply prelude).
An important book, though the topic itself is predictably dry (medieval theology, monastic rule, St. Anselm, etc...).Compare:The Aaby Crucifix (Denmark, c.
1150) -- you should magnify the heads to get the proper contrast.
From memory a rather top down view of the middle ages, heavily slanted towards the doings of the ecclesiastical hierarchies. To some extent this reflects the sources, but to an extent also the habits of the scholarship of Southern's day. I'd be inclined to recommend Bartlett's The Making of Europe instead.
I loved this one. If you still think that history books need to read as some sort of novel, if you believe that only biographies can be interesting, then you haven`t grabbed this one yet. The perfect book for a first approach into history
I loved this one. If you still think that history books need to read as some sort of novel, if you believe that only biographies can be interesting, then you haven`t grabbed this one yet. The perfect book for a first approach into history
Unfinished translation!
Instead of throwing reams of data about this period (he lovingly refers to it as "our period" - it is bookended by the years 972 and 1204.), Southern masterfully introduces anecdotes about prominent (and sometimes not so prominent figures) which illustrate quite well a certain concept he is trying to get across.The example that comes most readily to mind (and I won't do it justice) is how the image of the crucifixion changed in this period.
Southern calls up his favorite figure, St. Anselm, (to whom he would devote much of his scholarly career) and offers up a concise, but powerful explanation how Christ began the period as a divine distant figure in artistic depictions of the crucifixion, and ended it as quite human, expressing all the pain and suffering of mankind.
My most recent Crusader-research read: RW Southern's classic The Making of the Middle Ages.
If anything, the fewer than three hundred years which he covers seems almost too short a time for a history of the prevailing cultural winds.
But Southern is writing with an evident knowledge of and sensitivity to the intellectual and spiritual life of the time.
Long, long ago in a galaxy far away I was a graduate student studying under Norman Cantor at SUNY Binghamton.
He studied under Southern as a Rhodes scholar in the mid 50s.
But Cantor admired the man and his ideas immensely.
He sought to extend Southern's thesis that a real sea change in Western Civilization occurred in that time and place.
I sold out in the end and followed the Law into a career.
Life happens and the decision to leave the dream and follow the career is mourned but not regretted.
For a time I broke bread with dreamers and scholars of the first order.
The arc of history is long but it bends toward ... a rather neat stained glass window in Chartres, or Bourges, perhaps ... But besides such visceral evidence, nothing captures so well that ultimately mysterious world than this glowing icon of erudition, scholarship and story-telling April 2016:just re-read this. The Southern moves from a difficult generality to the exemplification thereof by way of a carefully reconstructed (and selected) individual, human story, is at times breathtaking. A work of genius.
I decided to read it after learning in Norman Cantor's Inventing the Middle Ages that Cantor considers it one of the two greatest books on medieval history written in the 20th century, and possibly the most influential.
Only toward the end of The Making of the Middle Ages, after much preparation, does Southern articulate his thesis that the most important development in medieval culture was a romantic revolution, occurring largely (but not exclusively) in northern France and southern England from the 11th to the early 13th centuries.Chapter 5, "From Epic to Romance," is the heart of the book and a stunning performance.
"Richard William Southern, The Making of the Middle Ages, Yale University Press, 1953, 280 p.Discuţiile despre schimbările instituţiei suveranităţii în relaţiile internaţionale au condus la o serie de speculaţii, mai mult sau mai puţin potrivite, dintre care recent a reapărut ce referitoare la neomedievalism.
Apoi, ele ne sugerează că trecutul este şi el supus interpretărilor, cum autorii şi contextul publicări diferă, accente specifice puse pe un factor sau altul sunt evidenţiate, de unde reiese şi importanţa interpretării, nu doar a acumulării de fapte brute.Richard William Southern a realizat una dntre cele mai cunoscute prezentări generale ale lumii medievale, o realizare cu valoare exemplară, prin concizie şi capacitate de explicare.
Southern's book is one which I have often seen referenced as authoritative in discussions of early medieval society.
I was pleasantly surprised, then, to discover that it is actually quite a short and readable book, with a sensible systematic analysis of the themes of the early medieval period livened up with specific examples and quotations.
This is a poor paraphrase of the complex picture Southern paints, however, which covers the physical, religious and intellectual dimensions of his subject.As with all writing on this period, there is necessarily a great deal of weight given to church proceedings, which often bore me.
As an entry point to study of the medieval world, this would be an excellent text.
Excellent, erudite, clear, and fascinating.
Unexpectedly, for a work of medieval history, stylistically beautiful.
Southern’s eye is grand and personal, but never sweeping, in laying the foundations for the period between the Carolingian Age and the Renaissance, which has come to be called the Middle Ages.
Justice is done to religious thought, so pervasive in that age, as well as secular tradition.
The evolution of legal thought, intricately tied to political theory and practice, is particularly fascinating, as is the story of European government, the complexity of which is demonstrated with certain, particular examples that lend the work an atmosphere of intimate realism.
An excellent history.
Required for class. Yawn. I appreciate the landscape southern is trying to paint in the early chapters but the last few were.so.damn.painful. Even though this is one of those canonical works of 12th century european history- skip it. Its been updated by better writers.
In this book, Southern brought into clarity the notion that the twelfth century was a time of enormous change: the discovery of the individual, it's been called.
In the process, whether as a result of or concurrent with or for whatever reason, the shift in culture went from broad to narrow, from paternalistic to individual, from Epic to Romantic (as Southern calls it).
Southern's personal focus was on the Church, so the book pays a lot of attention to the shift in Monastic culture, but it doesn't ignore the lay literature of the Arthurian cycle and Chretien de Troyes.
Southern's narrative is very broad in scope; he discusses the geographic boudaries of Latin Christendom and follows this with discussions on society, the church, and the rising intellectualism which led to the formation of the universities.
In discussing society, he examines serfdom and the interesting legal foundations of serfdom and its place in northern and central Europe.
His discussion of the church naturally centers around Gregory VII and the Gregorian reforms which fostered the rise of the monasteries in the context of the Cluniac and Cistercian reforms.
This was an extremely well written work, and Southern doesn't get bogged down in minutiae unless it serves to illustrate his point.
R.W. Southern's "The Making of the Middle Ages" covers the period from the late 10th century through the early 13th (roughly 970-1220).
He presents the period as one of transition and preparation for further upheaval, showing the sometimes rapid, sometimes glacial progress of Europe in the various fields of human endeavor -- government, education, foreign policy, religious practice, and literature.
Southern's book assumes some prior knowledge of the period, but offers the educated layman a profound look at an often skimmed-through period.
Southern is readable, selecting apt examples to illustrate broader movements without the reader feeling himself buried under an avalanche of detail.
I think this was my brother-in-law's book when he was taking history courses in college in the late 60s. Its focus is what Europe was like during the 11th and 12th centuries; what educated and influential Europeans thought, believed and knew about the world. It was not as difficult a read as I thought it would be, but it's very dense and I wish I knew more Latin.
Even though it's only 290pages, I struggled to get through 30ish pages. It's very dry and you need to have a lot of back knowledge before going into this book. I ended up dropping it because I couldn't really get interested by 30 pages.
Absolutely the best intro to why the 12th century matters in western history.The man wrote it while dealing with a bout of tuberculosis so you have to hand it to him for writing something this incisive while he was so sick.
Excellent book on the causes and effects that went into creating the middle ages. It takes into account the place of the church and monarchy in society and how they effected the growth of thought and philosophy that led into the reformation... a dry, but very interesting book.
Very boring book. I fell asleep reading it 3 times, and still have not finished. It is a very well researched book.
An examination of the eleventh and twelfth centuries in western Europe by one of the greatest medievalists of the twentieth century.
It just might make a medievalist out of you.
This is the book that made me understand how serfdom arose. A great view of a forgotten corner of history -- it pretty much ends in 1000AD.
