https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816858.Punish_the_Sinners
**3.5** I enjoyed this book so much more than I was expecting to. Saul's writing is super easy to read and the story sucked me in from the beginning. I found the idea of the extreme Catholic Church very frightening and really enjoyed how he chose to end it. Overall I was really impressed and will definitely pick up another one of his books in the future!
This novel proves to be quite intense with its explanation into religious contradictories within a cult within the Catholic church and graphically explores the topic of suicide, but I would stand by the idea that it is very well written and tackles the subject matter head on.Peter Balsam was previous a student at St. Francis Xavier that specializes in psychology, has written and argued about the topic of suicide, married and separated from his wife, and is now being called by Monsignor Peter Vernon to take a position as a Latin and Psychology teacher at St. Francis Xavier's Catholic high school.
All I can say about this book without giving any spoilers is I love it when a book doesn't end how the reader whats it to...it really breaks away from the normal and leaves me wanted more.....
This is the only novel where Saul examines any subject of any consequence.Saul’s views are quite clear on the subject.
This is also unique in Saul’s canon when good always triumphs over evil.What is more remarkable about this novel is its presience.
Punish the Sinners has several gaping plot holes that detract from an otherwise dark and riveting novel.We never learn just how it is that the Society of St. Peter Martyr and Peter Vernon are able to engage in such dominating mind control?
The reader learns in the twist that Peter Vernon was that little boy who witnessed his parents’ murder when Saul leads us to believe through most of the novel it was Balsam.
I listened to this while driving and it was very...
I love a good mystery but this book just did not catch me.
What the heck." The book was not bad but not something I am into.
Oh spolier alert!I thought some of the characters did ridiculous things.
I forget the names but his girlfriend and him had sex after she tells him he was raped and molested by all these men.
He was covered in what they did to him and they had sex.
And I think sex would be the last thing on someones mind if that happened to them.
This, to me, seemed more like a horror novel written specifically for Catholics but I did enjoy it, despite my distance from that sect.
I thought it had some interesting concepts in regards to some of the more obscure saints and what an American Inquisition would look like.
I wish we might've been able to delve deeper into the psychological make-up of Peter Vernon once his true past is revealed to us but I understand that these types of pulp fiction aren't expected to get too lofty.
All and all, a fun read but I also thought it it wrapped itself up too quickly.
This book is very special to me cause this was my very first book I read from Mr. Saul. I loved this book and it was so very twisted and scary.
I loved this book!! great story!! 2nd book I have read by this author!! will read more of his books!!
But, I digress…*****As Monsignor Vernon shows Peter Balsam to the class room he’s going to be using for the year, Balsam notices a statue sitting in a cubby-hole in the wall and asks about it.
Monsignor tells Balsam that it is a statue of St. Peter Martyr.
He suggests to Balsam that he join himself and a small group of priests who call themselves The Society of St. Peter Martyr at their next meeting.As Balsam settles into his teaching regime, he finds himself at odds with parents, the town and even Monsignor and the church.
He and a small group of priests are part of the Justin Martyr society, and when teenage girls begin killing themselves and attempting to kill themselves, with the survivors saying that they felt like they were being forced to do it by some outside agent, the main character becomes certain that the insane monsignor and his priests are behind it.
I was very frustrated that the bad guys won in the story – the main character dies, murdered at the hands of the monsignor, and a group of priests continue driving girls to suicide while the dead body of Balsam is desecrated and burned because he is blamed for the suicide contagion.I am giving it three stars though because the book definitely held my interest.
Rediscovering John Saul Book Number 2Punish the Sinners is the type of story that, when it was originally published, would probably shock many readers.
Or is it something even more ancient and terrifying haunting the halls of the school?!Even as I write this, I am still debating on how many stars to give in the rating.
It could easily be a three star book, because I did enjoy it.
Then again, that's usually the fun part of horror books or movies...the characters stupidity gets them into deep doo doo.
HERE WE GO: JOHN SAUL #2.
...This was just weird - old saints and girls committing suicide which we all knew was murder.
The book wasn't scary at all.
I think the reader is supposed to question the lead character's sanity but I never did.
There were also some questions left unanswered like the icky orgies --- that is not really a spoiler and there is nothing super graphic either.
It was all I could do to watch it until she came on screen mid episode.
This leads me to conclude that this book was not scary.
I do wonder if John Saul gets scarier later on.
this is 4th book i am reading of john saul...hmmmm it was good i really liked the concept and way it
i was gripped from the prologue!
this was a very interesting book!
new teacher comes to town to teach psychology in a catholic school.
the monsignor is a childhood friend of his that summons him to the town.
suicides start happening.
theres accusations.
but this was a really interesting horror and mystery!
the mystery being WHY all the things start happenin!
i loved the book!
i read some other peoples reviews of this book, and the really negative reviews of john sauls books startled me!
how can people say he wasn't a good author!
HE IS A GOOD AUTHOR!
4.5 stars rounded up to 5. A lush psycho-religious thriller with interesting turns (I knew where this was headed right away, but that was a lucky guess. Saul constructed it well.) I like early John Saul, and that sprawling 70's style, rich with drama, immersed me into the characters' minds and lives. It's not high in outright horror, but rather a precursor to those psychological thriller films of the 90s. Well done!
Haven't read early John Saul since I was a teenager. Can't remember hardly a thing other than they scared me at the time and contributed to my love of horror. I can't imagine any of his books would have the same effect on me now. John Saul just isn't that good of a writer, even all these years later, I don't think he's gotten any better.
Not sure what I was expecting, but I wanted more from this book. The basic plot seemed very repetitive and the final outcome didn't leave me fulfilled. There was not a sense of building suspense or press for time to help move the story along and make it more involving. The main characters also seemed very thin without much development. Just a bit disappointed.
I'm surprised at the unfavorable comments. John has an old style to his writing that is lacking in a lot of books I've read in recent years. This is my first book with him and i'm taken! This was an enjoyable read because i finished it in less than 2 days.
SPOILER - however much a book may be exciting, if, at the end, nothing has really happened, it is a waste.
Long time since I have read a John Saul novel. Not great, but pretty good. More like 3 1/2 stars. Definitely not a predictable ending. Good enough that I'll likely read more of his books.
Terrifying, disgusting and absolutely perfectly written. It was long time since I read something from this genre and I wasn't disapointed. John Saul is perfect reading for nights.
John Saul is one of the best unsung pulp horror writters around. I love wandering into the mustier sections of used book stores to seek his work out. I fell in love with the whole atmosphere of Punish the Sinner. I could not put this book down. I could see Ti West make this into an incredible film adaptation.
Meh. Just meh. Not my cup of tea, I guess. I love John Saul but I don't feel it's his best work. The book was fast paced and kept my attention, but I found the characters unlikable and the ending anticlimactic.
Enjoyable.Enjoyable read. I love John Saul's work and this was a re-read after about 30+ years. Just as good as I remembered.
great story......didn't expect it to end that way...…..wow
Extremely slow start. Didn't care for the book
It's pretty good, and had me researching some religious stuff, as it revolves around a dark long past religion that I knew little about.  I did not like the ending- abrupt and disappointing.
What on earth did I just read? This was a bizarre story that drove to an even more bizarre ending. We're at "if VC Andrews was Catholic" levels here, which I did not expect from Saul. Weird.
I did not like the end...
Great book but the ending pissed me off
