https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14836.Midnight_s_Children
Many times in the first few chapters I found myself closing the book in anger, thinking to myself "If the story is worth it, this tactic is utterly unnecessary."The tactic, it turns out, is unnecessary.
Also, they effectively allow you to feel a certain urgency near the end of the book, as the narrator "runs out of time."The imagery is lush; the characters are curiously, magically lopsided; the language is complicated and beautiful; the chapters are nicely portioned despite the initial plodding pace; the narrative is deliberately allegorical, which perhaps suggests an enhanced enjoyment of the work after studying a bit of Indian history.
Midnight’s Children is an  absolute masterful piece of writing. It is entertaining, intelligent, informative, progressive and even funny: it is an astoundingly well balanced epic that captures the birth of a new independent nation. I hold it in such high regard. The children are all fractured and divided; they are born into a new country that is yet to define itself in the wake of colonialism: it has no universal language, religion or culture. The children reflect this; they are spread out and u
The children are all fractured and divided; they are born into a new country that is yet to define itself in the wake of colonialism: it has no universal language, religion or culture.
He has powers, powers that allow him to connect telepathically with the other children born into the new nation.
Literature needs to make us think; it needs to make us question the world and our place within it.
I will be reading The Satanic Verses very soon I think, and I will definitely be writing on Rushdie for my university work.
It was the first time I read a book with this kind of narration (mostly having had the omniscient, distant 3rd party narrator or the interior dialog or stream-of-consciousness 1st person narrator) and this was a revelation for me which later led me to read DFW, Pynchon and other post-modern writers with relish.
The backdrop of the horrors of the partition of India and Pakistan, bungled so badly by the United Kingdom's cowardly retreat leaving a chaotic bloody vacuum in '48, is already compelling but what really makes this novel so fascinating for me is the unreliable narration.
What's real and what's true aren't necessarily the same. Discard skepticism as you approach this epic. Suspend disbelief. Because myth and truth blend into each other imperfectly to spin a gossamer-fine web of reality on which the nation state is balanced precariously. And we, the legatees of this yarn, are caught up in a surrealist farce which plays out interminably in this land of heat and dust and many smells, our rational selves perennially clashing with our shallow beliefs but eventually s
Nation of dubious ancestry, born of imperialism and revolution, of three hundred and thirty million gods and goddesses, prophets and saviours and enlightened ones, fortune-tellers and clairvoyants, fantasies and dreams and nightmares, of self contradictions galore, this is a love letter to you from a besotted son if there ever was one.
O people of fractured selves, you who have been scarred by the vicissitudes of history, traumatized by partitioned fates, absorbed by the currents of dynastic politics, afflicted by the optimism disease, gather up and listen to the saga of midnight's children, your very own: one a child of hardwon freedom, other a child of flesh and blood.
To understand just one life, you have to swallow the world." —Salman Rushdie, Midnight's Children. For me, one of the most important books of our modern age.I ADORE this playful, historical epic: Salman Rushdie is a literary god in my eyes, and can do little wrong - so I am biased.Rushdie is one of the authors who has influenced my own style of writing, even though his overly-descriptive approach is discouraged by publishing editors the world over.The 'midnight's children' of the story are thos
Through this process he has discovered that Rushdie's book is the most ejaculative British novel of all time, racking up 2,131 exclamation marks per 100,000 words.My reaction to that is, who cares????Midnight's Children is one of the best books ever written - and Rushdie can add as many exclamation marks as he likes!!!!!!!!!!!!
Ξεκινώντας απο τον αξιοθαύμαστο γιατρό παππού με το κενό στο κέντρο της ψυχής του, μέχρι το γάμο των γονιών του Σαλίμ ή μυξιάρη ή ρουφήχτρα ή καράφλα ή βούδα, ακόμη και φεγγαράκι.
Ο Σαλίμ μέσα απο μια παράξενη παιδική ωριμότητα γίνεται μάρτυρας πολέμου μεταξύ Ινδίας και Πακιστάν και τραγικός επιζών που βιώνει το χαμό ολόκληρης σχεδόν της οικογένειας του.
Ο άντρας με τις ρωγμές που ζει ανάμεσα σε βαζάκια τουρσί βιδώνοντας καπάκια,προσπαθώντας να κλείσει μέσα το χρόνο,την ιστορία του και τις μάγισσες των αναμνήσεων του."Πρέπει να ζήσουμε,δυστυχώς,με τις σκιές της ατέλειας"Γευτείτε αυτόν τον συγγραφέα.
How come each story line makes me smile through tears?In my memory, the novel grows to an explosion of the senses: I hear a cacophony of voices chatting incoherently in my head, I see colours merge into fireworks of lametta, I feel the heat and cold and humidity and dryness of an India I have never been to, I taste the foods whose names I cannot pronounce, I touch and I am touched by the story which contains a truth deeper than reality.
Likewise, this is not merely a novel on the turbulent historical events regarding the independence of India and its later partition from Pakistan, it’s the story of a man blessed or cursed with extraordinary gifts that is inexorably handcuffed to the making of a generation, descendant of a picturesque family lineage that paints an unorthodox portrait of the multifaceted culture of a certain era.Rushdie has a very honest stance toward history.
Fantastic, intelligent, hilarious, profound, and historically illuminating.
Here's one plucked utterly at random:"Into this bog of muteness there came, one evening, a short man whose head was as flat as the cap upon it; whose legs were as bowed as reeds in the wind; whose nose nearly touched his up-curving chin; and whose voice, as a result, was thin and sharp--it had to be, to squeeze through the narrow gap between his breathing apparatus and his jaw...a man whose short sight obliged him to take life one step at a time, which gained him a reputation for thoroughness and dullness, and endeared him to his superiors by enabling them to feel well-served without feeling threatened; a man whose starched, pressed uniform reeked of Blanco and rectitude, and about whom, despite his appearance of a character out of a puppet-show, there hung the unmistakable scent of success: Major Zulfikar, a man with a future, came to call, as he had promised, to tie up a few loose ends."
وهو مما يلتف نظري عطفًا على عمله الذي سوف يليه في التأليف وهو آيات شيطانية" هذا العمل كان بها حس خفي إسلامي أستوقفني.
That’s what reading Midnight’s Children is like.
This is a country of 330 million deities and about as many languages and dialects.
Like the nation whose birth it writes about, Midnight’s Children strains at the seams to hold its contents in one whole.
A key theme in the novel is fragmentation: of our hero, and of the country.
Modern Indian women dance in jeans in clubs while nationalist conservative Hindus plot to bash them for immodesty.
India faces as many possibilities at this juncture of her history as at the time of her bastard incarnation (don’t flame me, it’s in the book).
Midnight’s Children is a book where miracles signify a sort of divine comedy, troubles make for an allegorical tragedy and the inevitable meeting between the two crafts an engrossing narrative.
Especially in a country which is itself a sort of dream.Tracking down the temporal shifts that starts in Kashmir and ends in Bombay, tick tock in Pakistan and stop short in Delhi, the children of midnight takes the form of everything that India was and everything that India became.
Midnight’s Children is one limitless metaphor that knows no border and speaks a universal language.What more could a reader ask from a book?
The children of midnight were also the children of the time: fathered, you understand, by history. It can happen. Especially in a country which is itself a sort of dream. Midnight's Children was an unexpected pleasure for me. Maybe that is the reason it took me so long to write down my thoughts on it. Yes, I read some reviews before starting it, but could never have imagined Salman Rushdie’s symphony that is no short of a magnificent blueprint of a labyrinthine palace of fantasy. Let me just sa
From the creative perspective of the world of children born at midnight of India’s independence, through Rushdie’s magic and digressions enters a world where destiny rules over reason, where truth is twisted, and history transforms itself, contorting into a reality that is burdened with pain, love, and miracles.
In fact, all over the new India, the dream we all shared, children were being born who were only partially the offspring of their parents--the children of midnight were also the children of the time: fathered, you understand, by history.
(وَقْع إسم سلمان رشدى على الأُذْن العربيه (وخاصة المسلمة) من أسوأ ما يكون , فهو ذلك الكاتب الذى اتخذ من قلمة أداة لإهانة مقدساتنا والتجريح فيها )هذه هى الصورى الذهنيه التى غالباً ستتكون عندك ولا ألومك فى هذا لأنك لم تقرأ له مثلما كانت هى عندى ولم أكن قد قرأت له بعد.
It’s trite to say, I know, but it really wasn’t you, it was me.
I’m sure your allegories were brilliant and your symbolism sublime, but it was in large part lost on me.
It might have had something to do with its extensive acclaim; you know, Booker to beat all Bookers and all that.
Had I taken the guided tour instead, I’m guessing I’d have gotten more out of it.
I also liked the epic story of Indian archetypes, and the pertinent, sometimes elliptical lessons in history.
Still, we both were hoping I could give it a 5, I’m sure.
Coupled with the relative lack of whole noses on some of the statues, I was transported back to this book.This was my first adult Rushdie, following soon after his gorgeous children’s/YA novel, Haroun and the Sea of Stories.
I’m puzzled that I wrote that: I don’t seek out morality tales, but as I compile this review, I realise this felt like the sort of book that had, or ought to have, such a thread, and yet I lost it in the rich tapestry.The Midnight Children “found it easy to be brilliant, [but] we were always confused about being good”, just as Saleem used his powers to cheat in class in an attempt to gain parental approval.Another gap was precisely WHY Mary Pereira does the thing she does.
It traces Saleem's life and family history - as well as India's - starting with his grandparents on down (much like Middlesex, for example, and, yes, yes, I know, also that Gunter Grass novel, the Tin Drum which was apparently the first novel to trace a character's lineage that way.
Like a good city, you can walk it for ages and discover new things every time.In comparing it to Satanic Verses - my other fave Rushdie, if you haven't deciphered that at this point - I connected with this in a different way.
I am speechless...unlike the main character of this book: Saleem.
What to compare this to?
Not another book.
Perhaps it is best to compare this reading experience to a feeling, an image from my past: A young boy listening in awe to his father (his greatest hero) telling one of his most wonderful stories at a campfire, hoping that the night and dad's story will never end.Saleem's story and his narrative made me feel like that young boy again: an awestruck admirer.
I didn't read this book...
I was, like Padma, part of Saleem's audience.
I listened...A remarkable novel!
It presents history as memory and story rather than settled fact, and beautifully weaves the human with the epic and the mythic.I did appreciate the central metaphor and structure: the expression of the birth and growth of a nation through that of its children; the promise of greatness, and the eventual decline of its potential through human failings – these work on the personal and national scale (and in a third mystical, metaphysical dimension at which the novel hints), and what the novel does well - though perhaps a little too heavy-handedly at times - is draw together these parallel lines and overlapping themes.
We made it through Snow Falling on Cedars successfully--I don't remember any discussion we had about it, but I liked the book.Midnight's Children absolutely destroyed us.Partly because we were newly in college, overwhelmed with so many things.
College isn't a great time to be in a book club, I found.After four years there plus three more in grad school studying literature, I almost completely lost the ability to read books of my own choosing.
but I am still unable to read anything without thinking about it to death.These many years ago, I had made it about a third of the way through Midnight's Children before I was overcome by its nearly impenetrable density.
I confess I had a different opinion of magical realism before I started reading this book.
I had the opinion that magic realism would in general have a lot of similarities to fantasy fiction with an exception that the allusions made would be realistic and the exaggerations would just make the effects to the plot more pronounced.
I could go on and actually write a review consisting of all the complains I can muster but I would really like to write about the things that made me adore the book and gladly embrace it as one-of-my-favourites-of-all-time.
Reading Rushdie's Midnight's Children is like listening to someone else's long-winded, rambling re-telling of a dream they had.
And like all people who describe their dreams -- especially those who do so long past the point where their listeners can believably fake interest or patience -- Rushdie is inherently selfish in the way he chose to write this book.
And, lastly, above and beyond the annoying narrator, the rambling story that went on for about 200 too many pages, and the author's disrespect (or at least disregard) for the reader, the last and crushing blow I can deliver to this book is that it was boring.
به حکم جبارانه ی عقربه ها، من و تاریخ به هم پیوسته شده بودیم؛ سرنوشتم برای همیشه با سرنوشت کشورم عجین شد.ما همه بچه های نیمه شبیم.
همه ی این ها را باید ممنون ترجمه ی خوب مهدی سحابی هم باشیم که با ارائه ی نثری پاک، خیلی ساکت و آرام خود را از صحنه کنار می کشد تا از داستان لذت ببریم، تا حدی که فراموش کنیم این داستان به زبانی غیر از فارسی نگاشته شده.
یعنی ترجمه یک کار بسیار دقیق فنی در انتقال یک اثر آفریده شده است.
دلداری ای که به مترجم می شود داد این است که در یک کار بزرگ مشارکت دارد و دارد در کار سترگی دخالت می کند.
This novel is my first experience reading Rushdie’s work, so I am not sure if the writing style of this book is typical of the author, but I am not in any hurry to find out.Being an English Literature student and an avid reader, I felt a certain expectation of myself to admire Rushdie and his work.
After the first 250 pages of Midnight’s Children I felt self-conscious that I that I didn’t like the book, in fact, I was beginning to despise it.
I consider Midnight’s Children a triple dog dare from Rushdie to read his book to the very end.
This book is everything, no that won't do. You need two words, this book is every thing. And the F word? There's no getting away with it. This book is frigging everything. No that won't do, this book is every-fucking-thing. I am the sum total of everything that went before me, of all I have been seen done, of everything done-to-me. I am everyone everything whose being-in-the-world affected was affected by mine.    "....to understand me, you'll have to swallow a world.”  Little Saleem exaggerates
You need two words, this book is every thing.
This is book of Indian History in fictional form, without appendix and index though.First Indian thing that comes to mind is, crowd.
And then there's little Saleem who gets through these people, pushes himself through the dense crowd (like readers struggle with that loquacious prose initially).
Keeping aside the crowd and people, you have a Brown Forrest Gump here.My take on Indian Literature has changed.If there's one Indian book you'd want to read, this should be it.Swim through this dense, viscous, 'hard to read' prose, you've swallowed Indian sub-continent too.
All is made good by Rushdie's fantastic prose style which is utterly stunning and makes the book a MUST READ.
And the prose, even the bits read by the narrator, who is Mr Rushdie himself, is not in the movie.
The slogan was “Naughty … but nice” and the ads were televised around 1980.I was listening to a lot of American pop stuff from the 50s the other day and what came up but Frankie Avalon, singing a daft song called “Gingerbread”REFRAIN Ginger bread ginger bread ginger bread ginger bread Ginger bread ginger bread ginger bread ginger bread You're full of sugar you're full of spice You're kinda naughty but you're naughty and niceSalman Rushdie – you’re busted.
WOW!!!It took me 140 pages to really get 'hooked'. Do you know there is a 32 page vocabulary list (I printed it out)--online for "Midnight's Children?Its worth reading this book! lolUPDATE:In spirit of Sharyl's review which I read today...I'm going to RAISE my my 3 stars to 5 stars!I read this a long time ago ---(I had to work it) --looking up tons of words. However --I thought the story was TERRIFIC!!!I still think about this book...so...5 stars it is!!!!!
I was, however, more and more impressed with Rushdie's mastery over his novel as I made my way through it.Midnight's Children is as much a tale of history and nationhood as it is of a person.
And in some ways, you have to admit that they improved on the techniques that I suspect Rushdie pioneered.Rushdie brings history to life in Midnight's Children, and he does it by adding magic.
The person at its center has worked too hard to be a symbol, a nation, history.Is Midnight's Children worth reading?
In a way I'm glad I've waited so long to come back, because Midnight's Children is still a difficult book, but worth all the effort on my part and all the critical praise it received from the Booker Prize crowd.It was from the start a most ambitious project - the Indian epic to rival War and Peace, Les Miserables, Gone With the Wind and One Hundred Years of Solitude - the big canvas that captures and preserves for posterity the birth of a nation and all of its spirituality: And there are so many stories to tell, too many, such an excess of intertwined lives / events / miracles / places / rumors, so dense an commingling of the improbable and the mundane!
سليم ذا الأنف الذي لا يكف عن السيلان والذي شوه وجهه لكنه هو مصدر القوة والعظمة في إشارة لما ممكن أن تقدمه حاسة الشم العظيمة الحاسة التي لا نعرف قيمتها إلا إذا أصبنا بزكام سد أنوفنا وأصبح روائح الأشخاص والأشياء كلها تتشابه ليست بذات قيمة وهنا بلاشك لا يمكن ألا استحضر رواية العطر لزوسكيند والتي كانت حاسة الشم هي ركيزة من ركائز النص فالبطل دون رائحة ويعمل في صنعة العطور تلك المفارقة قادته لصنع عطر خاص به من خلال جرائم القتل ، بينما بطلنا سليم هنا قادر على شمّ الرغبات الغير معلنة الحقد والإنتقام والكراهية رائحة الشر والحب هذه الروائح كاشفة النوايا محطمة للعلاقات الإنسانية وليصل الخيال بالكاتب إلى أبعد ما يمكن أن يتصوره عقل القارىء ..كل ذلك من خلال سرد ذاتي بالغ النرجسية يتضخم على مدار صفحات الرواية فقصته لا تقل أهمية عن أي كتاب مقدس كما يقول لذلك فهو لا يكف عن المقارنة بين حين آخر..أن سليم لم يكن سوى هو صوت الهند تحكي تاريخها بطريقة غير تقليدية متحررة من كل شيء وبعيدة تماما عما هو سائد ومدون..
