https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34503571-the-book-of-essie
4.5 stars, rounded up.Praise the lord!How quick we are to judge people, even if (or especially) when we don't know them. This is even more the case where celebrities are concerned—we think we know the people we see on television or read about in magazines, yet quite often they're far more complex, and their lives are more complicated than we could ever imagine.Esther "Essie" Hicks has spent nearly every minute of her life in the public eye. Her family has been a reality show staple with  Six for
This is even more the case where celebrities are concerned—we think we know the people we see on television or read about in magazines, yet quite often they're far more complex, and their lives are more complicated than we could ever imagine.Esther "Essie" Hicks has spent nearly every minute of her life in the public eye.
We've seen people like these characters in the media, or perhaps we even know people in similar situations without the glare of the public eye, and yet the story was utterly fascinating.Certainly a story like this favors one "side" over another, but I liked the way that Meghan MacLean Weir didn't quite make Essie's family and others to be one-dimensional religious zealots.
TRIGGER WARNING – Abuse.For a long time, I didn’t read stories with religious themes.
Little did I know, not all books exploring similar themes and topics read the same way and include the same content.In this case, for instance, while Essie’s family is religious – clearly, her father being a Father and all – and she herself believes in the word of God, she doesn’t spend 320 pages trying to convert us.
Needless to say, I was on the edge of my seat!We have three 1st person POVs – Essie’s (of course), Liberty’s (a reporter) and Roarke’s (the husband prospect).
It’s Essie’s and Liberty’s.
Her father is a Preacher in a Mega Church and her family are stars of the show Six for Hicks (Think Duggars but not as many kids).
Essie is trying to figure out if she wants to continue this TV life, Roauke is trying to save his family and Liberty Bell realize's Essie's story is closer to her heart then she realizes and struggles with reporting some of these stories for her job.This story brings about a lot of questions: Who can you really trust?
Every once in a while, a novel comes along that is both timelessly beautiful and unbelievably timely. The Book of Essie is such a story. Meghan MacLean Weir has given us a young heroine who is at once authentic and courageous — and a tale that is wonderful and mysterious and relentlessly surprising.
[3.5 stars]I thought this book was very addictive, especially towards the beginning.
In the beginning I was hoping for some big twist or some unexpected element that would have pushed this to a 4 or even 5 star book, but I could see once I got farther in that it was going to be more straightforward.
It sort of is like reality TV, which the book deals with—at first it's super satisfying and you can't stop, but then it gets a bit too much and you lose interest.
That's a bit of a pet peeve for me and can take me out of the story.
BE STILL, MY HEART.I think it's fitting that I finished this book, just now, on my way to the beach.
It's a place where the land and sea and sky all meet to create a cleansing experience, both physically and mentally.After reading The Book of Essie, I'm looking forward to that calm chaos.
I know it isn't the best reading habit, but I don't much care for long-winded tomes and often skip them over in favor of 300-400 pagers.
I appreciate economy of language and the way authors can fit so much into a reasonable amount of pages.
Essie has been living her entire life under the glare of TV cameras.
And now 17 year old Essie is pregnant and their public image (and sole means of their considerable wealth) is threatened, unless a plan can be devised to explain and salvage this domestic disaster.
The mother comes up with a plan for public consumption, but Essie has a plan of her own.
Told from three POV, there are plenty of twists and turns that kept me flipping the pages.
I’m not and I was riveted until the last page was turned.
However I did not fully buy into the characters and storyline, it was all too contrived, with too many themes thrown at you, it was hard to care about the main issue which was a pretty big deal and a major whammy which should have felt like a pivotal moment, instead it felt like it was barely addressed.
It was like the author decided one main theme wasn’t enough so she threw them all in and it’s because of this I felt the book faltered.
If only the author concentrated on the main issue of Essie’s dilemma this might have been a way better book.
So when I began reading The Book of Essie, a story about a 17-year-old woman who’s spent her whole life on a reality TV show, I was worried to say the least.
Worried, that is, until I realized that this surprisingly gritty girl was actually planning to blow up the show (and her family’s image) from the inside, and she had just the plan to do it.Essie is the youngest child on Six for Hicks, a nationally beloved and carefully orchestrated “reality” TV sensation.
But—for the first time ever—Essie, too, has her own ideas about what to tell the public, and how.Watching Essie escape the prison that has been her whole life is breathtaking.
The fact remains that I did not expect to be so drawn into this story as I was!Esther Hicks (or Essie) becomes pregnant at seventeen.
She is the daughter of a well-known evangelical preacher and has grown up under the scrutiny of the media due to her parents' successful TV show Six for Hicks.This was an interesting and compelling story.
The characters are complex and I enjoyed how centered and sensible Essie is given the circumstances surrounding her.
I cannot reveal much about the rest of the characters to avoid spoilers, just know that this was an appealing and engaging novel.Overall, I enjoyed it and recommend it to readers of contemporary fiction.
It has every, and I mean EVERY, major YA novel and/or After School Special type of melodramatic plot point going on, all stuffed into a mere 300ish pages and distributed between three different characters/narrators.
It’s like a relentless BOGO blowout sale on teen tragedy.
Toward the end especially, there is a lot of dramatically unrealistic complete-mind-changing back and forth for many characters as well as crazy contrived shark-jumping plot twists.
Instead it was like Amazon had a crazy cheap Cyber Monday special on plots and someone really filled up their shopping cart.
This was an extremely addicting story that covered a lot of really heavy topics (tw: sexual assault, teen pregnancy, abuse, religion), but honestly overall it felt like TOO MUCH was happening. I’d definitely say it’s worth a read if the subject matter interests you, but I personally didn’t get a lot out of this one.
To begin with, this book intrigued me because it comes with a really special and time-equivalent plot: We follow a religious, American family who are also starring in their own, national reality tv show.
Furthermore, I also felt like the author revealed the big twist too early in the story, so that the rest of the book becomes somewhat uninteresting because you already know how everything is going to play out.
The strong part about the first half of the novel was exactly that you knew something big was coming, but you didn’t know what.
For its gorgeous cover and fascinating author profile, this book took me forever to finish. What started out as simply compelling devolved into a convoluted slog. There were so (too?!) many important issues present in this story that deserved more complex exploration than they were given. These were life-changing issues, yet a lack of character depth made it difficult for me to form a connection with anyone. There were also some unanswered questions and an element of predictably. Disappointing in that respect, but this is still a 3 star book for me.
They, governed by Essie's mother, are the antithesis of perfect living, of morals beyond reproach, and a lifestyle that is always under a microscope through the cameras and the staged events that are witnessed.
The family is perfection but there is soon to be a huge black eye to their image.
For seventeen year old Essie is pregnant, and the scheme the family concocts, plus the reveal of the father of Essie's child, produces a riveting page turning novel.
I'm here for the rainbow holographic foil.
I enjoyed this book though I didn’t find it to be as “special” as I’d hoped. Full review to follow.
A solid debut with a timely message.
still contemplating this one, but tw for sexual assault/rape
But I do love reading books that revolve around a celebrity-type main character dealing with the public and the media and all the scandal.
Also, for some reason I kept picturing Saoirse Ronan in her Lady Bird phase as Essie Hicks.I absolutely adored the hell out of Roarke, even more so when I found out (view spoiler)[he is gay.
(hide spoiler)] So naturally I pictured Timothee Chalamet in his Lady Bird phase as Roarke.This book got a lot more dark than I was initially expecting.
(hide spoiler)] I thought this book was going to be a bit more light-hearted because of the reality show aspect of it, but it got really dark towards the end.

Rather, I deducted points because it is so very, very unsettling.Certainly playing well into the times in which we live, The Book of Essie centers around a reality TV show family.
But, Essie herself has a few tricks up her sleeve; she is unwilling to enter helplessly into an arranged marriage.What disturbed me the most about this book was its portrayal of the church and Christians in general.
This mega-star reality TV family is hypocritical and strays far from the Biblical ideal for believers.
Also unsettling and presents an ugly image of the church.
I liked this well enough to keep going, but it was extremely predictable.
Nothing challenging or special about the book.
It brushes on some serious issues, but never gets deep into them.
It is more on the feelings of the characters.
I left the book feeling very unsatisfied.
I loved Rourke but felt the author didn't give him enough voice and brushed over his issues.
Without giving any spoilers, I felt the two main issues with Esse and the family’s response were not realistic.
I also felt this was a retelling of the show Nineteen kids and counting.
I definitely felt like the story overall was based on the Duggars, so if you know some of the scandals that have come out of that family, you'll probably be able to guess most of the "twists." Everything from the older brother trying to get a political career, to be seeing away to "camp," to the parents covering up incest.
And, because she went public with her story (again, would never question a woman about this in real life), everyone will know her child's father is her brother, and was conceived through incest.
The Book of Essie is a timely, engrossing, beautifully written story about a pregnant teenager from a famous televangelist family.
I was immediately hooked by the premise and the questions it raises: How will Essie's family react when they find out and how will they manage the scandal?
The answers to these questions are unraveled through the voices of Essie, her friend Roarke, and Liberty, a television journalist with her own background traumas.
I expected Essie's family to call the shots, but she surprised me by being a fierce (and clever) advocate for herself, who carries the novel through to its shocking conclusion.
I can't help but sum this up as a mosh of The Duggers and V.C. Andrews Flowers in the Attic with the tone and readability of Little Fires Everywhere. A quick read - engaging, enjoyable and unique. A good beach read!
Essie though has a plan of her own and she is going to enlist the help of Roarke, a boy at school who won't give her the time of day, and Liberty, a reporter who knows what it's like to live your life in the spotlight.
I didn't particularly care for most of Liberty's story line but it did help tie in everything together.
Definitely recommend especially if you like to watch family based reality television shows as it gives a behind the scenes type glimpse into how these shows are produced.
While it was a bit slower than I wanted and it didn’t tie up how I might have liked, I still really liked it.
The Browns are genuinely good people who have issues like any other family.
Essie and Roarke are amazing people who are genuinely sweet and kind and everything I wanted from them.
I found the whole thing meandering and took away from the story as a whole.
I didn’t want something that tapered off into nothingness like I got.
It would have been better, for me, if it ended right at the reveal.Despite those issues, I still really enjoyed the book.
“It may be silly, but it gives me hope, this army of strangers that have sworn to stand up against slut-shaming and homophobia and bigotry.”   The Book of…  These books of women and young girls, named or unnamed!!!This is the third such book I’ve read this year, along Meg Elison’s  The Road to Nowhere  series, all of which are stories of young girls trying to take agency over their own life; stories of wrongdoings at the mercy of those who were supposed to protect them; stories of how “slut-sh
series, all of which are stories of young girls trying to take agency over their own life; stories of wrongdoings at the mercy of those who were supposed to protect them; stories of how “slut-shaming and homophobia and bigotry” are disguised as righteousness and piety; stories of men – and sometimes other women – who with one hand hold some book of prayer and with the other whittle away their dreams and liberties.
As always, there’s a cult.
I hope novels such as these ones inspire young girls everywhere: breaking free shouldn’t be reserved only to books!
This cover is beautiful, as was The Book of Essie.
Essie, the daughter of a reality show preacher, is the beloved star of the show and has grown up in front of the cameras.
When her mom finds out she's pregnant at 17, she begins to craft a plan with producers to cover it up.
Essie has a plan of her own and enlists the help of Roarke, a boy from school with a secret of his own to hide.
This behind-the-scenes take on reality shows, mega church families, and pop culture was eye opening.
The Book of Essie contains many twists, lovable characters, and a shocking truth.
