https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71195.The_Complete_Short_Stories
Impertinence often is.’Or again, to more obviously Wildean effect:‘When one is sixteen,’ said Mrs. Bebberly Cumble severely, ‘one talks of things being impossible which are merely uncongenial.’Sometimes too there are admirable flourishes of simile, as when someone consults a restaurant wine list ‘with the blank embarrassment of a schoolboy suddenly called on to locate a Minor Prophet in the tangled hinterland of the Old Testament’.These stories were published in the first couple of decades of the twentieth century, and Saki's heroes are young, rich, bored, brilliant men, who lounge in Edwardian drawing-rooms, mixing with baronesses and Gräfinnen, and making it a point of honour never to get emotionally invested in anything.
Saki no golpea, su fuerza no depende de la violencia, sino de convertir la carne de su escritura en un espejo donde las ropas se caen: su visión desnuda, y elogia la piel colgante en los pellejos, y se ríe de nuestros conflictos y nuestros dolores y nuestros sueños heroicos.Saki es un hurón blanco bebiendo agua en el arroyo, es una gallina anabaptista, es un toro ejemplar en medio de una habitación, y un niño, y una manada de lobos, y un gato capaz del lenguaje humano, y, sobre todo, un cuentista.
I'm going to have to dissuade anyone from actually reading this gargantuan compendium front to back. While it's well written, it's incredibly repetitive and the stories bleed into each other to create a dense and sludgy tread through Edwardian society as seen by a cynic. Recommended for completists and masochists only; casual readers may wish to opt for a Best Of selection instead.
The was a very enjoyable read. I really liked the writing, the form, and the characters - especially Clovis, he's basically the turn-of-the-last-century Sheldon (from Big Bang Theory). What I did not like as much were the novellas and the repetitiveness of the story structures - the 'turns' at the end became predictable, and there was often little differentiation in the types of characters he made fun of. Definitely of the same literary line as Thackery and Wilde though.
I love Saki and it was a huge pleasure (and relief) to sink into these stories during a time when real life has been intruding unpleasantly and stressfully on my love of reading.
You may ask what is so funny about a small child being eaten or the planning of a religiously inspired massacre, in which case you should read the tales and see if you laugh.
I know I did.I think Saki is funnier than P G Wodehouse because he is darker, and I think he is better than Evelyn Waugh because he is not such a shit.
I don’t know….but I find Saki more sympathetic – and funnier – than Waugh.
This is an extensive collection of short stories, some published posthumously, covering the writing career of H H Munro, who wrote under the strange pseudonym of Saki.
I didn't count them, but there must be about 100 stories in the collection.The stories cover a period from the early years of the 20th century, from about 1904 until his death in 1916.
It seems that Munro had a particular dislike for the Suffragette movement of the times!
Tell me a story," said the Baroness, staring out despairingly at the rain; it was that light, apologetic sort of rain that looks as if it was going to leave off every minute and goes on for the greater part of the afternoon."What sort of story?" asked Clovis, giving his croquet mallet a valedictory shove into retirement."One just true enough to be interesting and not true enough to be tiresome," said the Baroness.Clovis rearranged several cushions to his personal solace and satisfaction; he kne
Tell me a story," said the Baroness, staring out despairingly at the rain; it was that light, apologetic sort of rain that looks as if it was going to leave off every minute and goes on for the greater part of the afternoon."What sort of story?" asked Clovis, giving his croquet mallet a valedictory shove into retirement."One just true enough to be interesting and not true enough to be tiresome," said the Baroness.Clovis rearranged several cushions to his personal solace and satisfaction; he knew that the Baroness liked her guests to be comfortable, and he thought it right to respect her wishes in that particular."Have I ever told you the story of St. Vespaluus?" he asked."You've told me stories about grand-dukes and lion-tamers and financiers' widows and a postmaster in Herzegovina," said the Baroness, "and about an Italian jockey and an amateur governess who went to Warsaw, and several about your mother, but certainly never anything about a saint."
Brilliant, glittering shards. Like 'Pink Flag' by Wire, if you don't like the one you're on, there'll be something else great along soon. Like 'Pink Flag' by Wire, though, it's pretty much all great.
A brilliant collection of short stories, where Britain reigned supreme, the different classes knew their place, and women did not have the vote. The good humour and coziness disguises some of the social injustices that the author was in favour of.
Rapier wit gone amok. Some bits have aged poorly (pogroms, lol). Note to self, selections exist for a reason.
1) Reginald2) Reginald on Christmas Presents3) Reginald on the Academy4) Reginald at the Theatre5) R
Safe to say this isn't my cup of Darjeeling, but I'm glad to say I've read Saki now.
It's easy to picture Downton Abbey or the pre-war part of Atonement: very pampered Englishfolk gathered in the parlor of some countryside manor, making unwitty witticisms to each other.
The description of this collection says, "Saki is a social satirist of his contemporary upper-class Edwardian world.
[He is] perhaps the most graceful spokesman for England's 'Golden Afternoon' - the slow and peaceful years before the First World War." Yes, this is spot-on.

I have to admit I only read half of the entire collection. There are really short stories, most of them are two pages long. But their ending are abrupt and for most negative. There is a conflict between the figure of the child and the adult, one of my teachers said it was because Saki hated his aunts. What I liked was that there was a crucial place for animals that are related to children.
This is a very hard book to rate. I thought a lot of the stories were really great, funny and ironical and/or macabre, but the problem with reading somebody's complete works is that you get their less good ones as well. In this case those were more towards the end of the book so I got tired of it and wasn't left with a great impression. 3.5 stars really.
What a treat
Saki is the pen name of Hector Hugh Munro (1870-1916), who fell in 1916. His stories bordering on farce are often hilarious and sometimes macabre (like Sredni Vashtar).
Stalled. Complete standstill. Ugh.
Not actually reading this version, but a very old copy, one close to it. Such a fantastic writer/story-teller.....What a book - My copy ended with 'The Unbearable Bassington'
