https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306927.Practical_English_Usage
The book almost reads your mind and anticipates a lot of the common error students fall into. It is a book that I read with great relish, not because I am ever going to be tested but because it is important to perfect what we already have got. I enjoy the examples he provides and I love his sense of humor in those examples. This is supposedly to be a grammar/ style type of a book, boring. But not this book. This book is addictive! I read it with great addiction.
My bible. ESL teacher for 12 yrs and this is my go-to reference book. Not very student-friendly though. Definitely a teacher resource. For student resources, Murphy's Grammar in Use is a godsend.
An English Teacher's Bible
کتابی جامع و کامل که شامل گرامر در سطح پیشرفته، نکات مهم و تمامی استثنائات رایج در استفاده از کلمات و افعال و اصطلاحات زبان انگلیسی می باشد. برای افرادی که در زمینه تدریس زبان انگلیسی هستند و یا در رشته های زبان انگلیسی تحصیل می کنند، به عنوان یکی از مراجع مهم کاملا کاربردی است. برای من مطالب این کتاب بسیار مفید و جالب است. البته برای کسانی که فقط علاقه به انگلیسی دارند و در شرف یادگیری هستند، باید بگم که این کتاب بیشتر به عنوان رفرنس هست .
'Practical English Usage' is probably the first book I read about English language grammar and structure.
Now it is one of the main sources I use for teaching English.
The book is very useful and quite detailed.
Swan answers a lot of questions English non-native speakers have (particularly in areas like punctuation and grammar).
He also offers an explanation of the common errors made even by some native speakers.
The book is written in a way that makes it easy for readers to search for the topics that they would like to understand.
The best there is for detailed, yet quick, practical checks on grammar points. A life-saver for a teacher not sure about certain grammar points.
A most useful trove of practical advice.My only quibble is that there are no page numbers. Instead, you are forced to use the section numbers for reference, and sections can be anything between a paragraph and couple of pages long. The difference shouldn't matter much, but it takes a bit of getting used to.
Widely held to be the "Bible" of English Language Teaching, Swan's book is useful as a reference but not the be-all-and-end-all that many people assume.
This is because it doesn't treat grammar as a meaning-making resource but rather a set of prescriptive rules that do not necessarily reflect real language in use.
I would recommend Lock's 'Functional English Grammar for Language Teachers' over this book any day.
However, one thing I like about Swan's book is its dictionary-style index, making it fairly easy to locate the grammar point in question.
As for its usefulness, I don't find it very 'practical' at all.
This book is very easy to understand. You do not need a degree in linguistics to make sense of it. It's very thorough, with clear examples and an excellent reference book overall.
very useful for English language teachers and people who are interested in Grammar. It is my reference and I will keep it in my library forever.
Not a book you read through, but if you are teaching the whys of English it is a necessity!
This book is an excellent and MUST READ reference for upper intermediate and advanced readers of English. The logical correlations between grammatical problems are very user friendly and sometime drown you in a lot of examples you didn’t think that you may have misunderstood them.
Looked for its fourth edition crazily here in Bangladesh, but found nowhere. Why's distribution been not that much international! A good book for learning if you're not a noob.
My favourite English grammar reference. Written by a British writer, it's mainly about British English.
A very useful and complete reference. Includes basic usage plus a lot of idiosyncrasies.
I don't know if you ever really "read" a reference book like this, but it was invaluable during my CELTA studies last summer and continues to be very useful.
Really useful and invaluable for teaching ESOL.
An excellent book about English grammar.
An absolute MUST for ESL teachers. When you first start out [as a native speaker] you'll need it for all of those grammar questions you can give an answer for, but are stumped for a reason why. Students always want to know grammar rules. Overtime you'll build up your knowledge and this is a great book to help you do that. It isn't limited to gramar, there are also sections on easily confused words, spelling, formats, BrEn / AmEn differences, etc. It'll also come in handy if you take the CELTA course.
You don't really have to slog through all the rules of grammar to get better at English. An alternative is to follow the intuitive approach: to learn English grammar through usage and examples. 'Practical English Usage' helps you achieve just that. It has an A to Z listing, detailing the usage of all the parts of speech and many misused words or clauses.Should you buy one book on English grammar and usage, this would be it. 5 stars.
Practical English Usage contains many examples of common mistakes about English grammar. It surely is a treasure to people who treat English as a second language and non-English speakers. It explains to me the reason why I speak English in this way but not the other way around by showing plenty cases.
This book is one of the most practical grammars which I've read. In other word it's a dictionary of English grammar, which organized in alphabetical order making it easy to search and find the intended grammatical problem. Generally, I advise this book to everybody wants to refer his/her problems during the time.
كتاب لازم يكون عندك مهما كان مستواك باللغة الإنجليزية إذا لم تكن هي لغتك الأم.حتى لو تتوقع أنك تعرف كل القواعد بتلقى معلومات حلوة عن أي التركيبات أنسب و ألبق في مناسبة ما، و هذا شيء صعب تلقاه و صعب تحس فيه دامها ليست اللغة الأم. كتاب مهم جداً و بعكس كتب القواعد هذا ممتع في القراءة بعد.
The Best Grammar Book!
En iyi İngilizce dilbilgisi kitabı. Sözlüğe benzer bir işleyişi vardır: Konu ve kavramlar alfabetik olarak dizilmiştir ve bkz'larla daha ayrıntılı bilgiye ulaşılır. İstisnai örnekleri bile barındırması baş tacı olması için en büyük nedendir. Muhteşemdir.
better
Great resource for the language teacher or student.
It's nice
i think i will learn so much in English .
One of the most important book for students who can not make difference between wrong or right
