https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/502362.Babar_and_Zephir
Originally published in 1936 as Les vacances de Zéphir - alternately translated in English as Zephir's Holidays, Babar's Friend Zephir and Babar and Zephir - this fifth of Jean de Brunhoff's classic picture-books featuring the elephant Babar shifts focus, concentrating on the adventures of the little monkey Zephir, who returns home for the holidays at the beginning of the story.
Perhaps this is because, despite the title, this is very much Zephir's story, with Babar having little to nothing to do with it.
This book's been out of print for awhile, which strikes me as strange.
Anyhow, out of the classic Babar books by Jean de Brunhoff, this one is probably the "least" among them.
The book's called "Babar and Zephir," but Babar's only shown on the first page, and even then, it's his back!
I read a review which commented that this was the strangest of all the Babar books, and I agree.
It's not the best book in the Babar series, but it deserves to be in print and read.
All in all, I enjoyed this book, and it was a nice little detour in the series.
I didn't like it very much. I thought it was about fishing but it wasn't.
I'm a bit of a Babar fan, so I was surprised to find out about this book from Jean de Brunhoff that I had never heard of.
The story itself felt like a Babar book in the manner of storytelling but really it's a kind of spin-off to Zephir's homeland that is similar to Babar's kingdom of elephants.
That being said, after having finished the book I could see why it isn't common on bookshelves: The mermaids are topless and there is no artistic covering by flowing hair as is common in other cartoon depictions.
I don't know much about French censors, but I can't imagine how this book made it to the U.S. when it was published.
Now a book in the Babar series which I do not remember from my childhood Best in Children's Books.
I can see why: mermaids.
Mermaids who, in the French fashion, do not trouble to wear bikini tops.
They're not the least bit sexed up, but no children's editor in America in the 1950s would have dared present them.
The narrative in any case mostly wanders away from Babar and the elephants and travels instead with the Old Lady's monkey Zephir to the dwellings of the monkeys, who though quite as civilized as the elephants simply are not such charming creatures to behold.
Yet another delightful Babar book by Jean de Brunhoff. Babar and the elephants only appear in a tiny illustration on the first page; the rest of the book is taken up by the somewhat fantastical adventures of Zephir, their little monkey friend.I'm unsure whether I read this one as a child; the story doesn't seem familiar, but a few of the illustrations strike a chord with me.
This is a surprising fantasy of monkeys and mermaids. It doesn't have much to do with Babar. The President of the land of the monkeys is a general who wears a Napoleonic hat. So the book is a souvenir of imperialism. Once the monsters come in, including some sort of naked Moses or caveman, it's hard to be upset.
The Babar books by JEAN De Brunhoff are incredibly imaginative, beautiful works of art. This one in particular, starring Polomoche, Zephir the Monkey, Aunt Crustadele and others, is one of the best. "He who smells of rotting apples..."
I loved this one. I really enjoyed the adventures of Zephir, who by the way had the most awesome name EVER.
One of my favorites in this series.
Too difficult, I will not be reading this to my kids any time soon. Kind of a magical realism vibe.
My least favorite of the Babar books, but it does have fantastic illustrations just like the others.
We'll try again in the future.
I am finding that I am not a fan of the Babar books...they seem disjointed.
