https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/429138.River_God
The eunuch slave, Taita, loves Lostris, daughter of the evil Grand Vizier, Intef, of the kingdom of Upper Egypt (and owner of gentle Taita).
Lord Intef, has his chief guard Rasfer, beat his slave brutally, for minor infractions, and Rasfer loves his work...The weak, tired Pharaoh, has let Lower Egypt, the delta kingdom, slip away , and now there are two Egyptian nations, in the 18th century ( B.C.)...
Tanus, is devastate, along with her comes Taita, and becomes very useful to the Pharaoh, in his Nile River palace, on an island, many miles from Thebes.
At over 600 pages it still managed to keep the action flowing right until the end and it doesn't hurt that Taita is one of the sweetest and most likable characters I've come to know in a long time.At first I wasn't too sure about this book.
Besides, authors are allowed to take liberties in historical fiction.I'm not sure how quickly I'll rush on to the next books in this series, if only because I want to preserve the memory of Taita as he is in River God. But this will certainly be a re-read somewhere down the line.
This was so good, I stopped reading a Malazan book to focus on it...Higher praise was never given.
I don’t usually advocate the burning of books, but in this guy’s case I’ll make an exception.
He has some of the worst, turgid, cliché ridden prose in the English language.
This guy must have a cliché macro programmed into his computer.
I need a cliché.
I think I’ll use F7.” I do not know how this guy got published, not even once but multiple times.
If you come across a book written by this guy take it to a safe place douse it in gasoline and set fire to it.
You will be doing a small part in making the world a better place.
Ancient Egypt mesmerizes me and I loved  Wilbur Smith's River God. Taita is a very likable character and narrates the story.
Not an everyday model hero for sure as a slave and a eunuch.
But he's brilliant, spirited and above all loyal, even if a little vain; and I specifically like flawed heroes.
It was a great adventure to read: the Egyptian Court decamps up the River Nile in their boats after the ruthless invasion by the barbarians Hyksos.
And as we follow the river with Wilbur Smith's master writing, 600+ page-turner, we follow along an incredibly enjoyable "road-trip" story.
but I rely wholly on my friend and teacher Taita, who cannot be accused of pedophilia, having been incapacitated in adolescence.Suddenly enter TANUS, big and blond, holds out his arms to LOSTRIS, his arms full of longing.LOSTRIS: Oh, Tanus!TANUS: Oh, Lostris!The two clutch each other in their arms.TANUS: I love you, Lostris!LOSTRIS: I Love you, Tanus, but we cannot marry, because my stereotypical evil vizier father hates you, and will kill you!
That'd be great, thanks.[Ominous music sounds as the wedding scene unfolds with at least three thousand extras, we can reuse the set of Cleopatra for that, or something]LOSTRIS: I want to die!
The images are still with me, but what makes it truly wonderful is the main character, Taita.
Taita can do almost anything, think a way out of most situations and turn them somehow to advantage.
But there's a sense of tongue-in-cheek to his abilities at times that makes me think he's laughing at himself just a little even though his attitude is one of natural superiority.
He thinks the world of himself, but is also compassionate and selfless.
Just in case you think it might be boring following the life of a noble slave-genius.
ONE OF THE BEST ADVENTURE NOVELS OF MODERN TIMESOnly drawback; it's long, too long, but for sheer imaginative scope, Wilbur Smith's River God tops everything I've ever read.
The story is narrated by the charming eunuch slave Taita, whose secret passion for queen Lostris surprises - until we learn Taita reached manhood before being castrated in order to render him "safe" for service in the harem.
We never learn where the pharaoh is finally buried, and the whole story kind of subsides rather than coming to a rousing end.
If Wilbur Smith lived on Lake Ontario, he'd have written "The Secret Ever Keeps".
Primo capitolo di un'avvincente serie di cinque romanzi incentrati sulla figura di Taita, uno schiavo eunuco che grazie alle sue abilità in fatto di medicina, pittura, ingegneria, tattica militare e tante altre arti, riesce ad emanciparsi e ad ottenere la libertà per mano della sua stessa adorata padrona, nel frattempo diventata moglie (a malincuore) del Faraone Mamose, ma da sempre innamorata di Tanus, il più forte guerriero d'Egitto.
quello bellissimo ma struggente (non ci sarà il lieto fine) tra la regina Lostris ed il suo amato Tanus.
Há dez anos foi-me oferecido o livro A 11ª Praga.
Foi sem dúvida um grande incentivo para me aventurar por outras leituras.
Este ano decidi finalmente comprar todos os outros livros.
Taita é um escravo e eunuco ao serviço do odioso Lord Intef, mão direita do Faraó Mamose.
Na verdade é Taita que cumpre as funções de Lord Intef.
É essa sua qualidade de polímata que retira algum entusiasmo da leitura, com Taita na equipa nada corre mal.
Apesar de tudo, o livro é uma aventura fantástica, com alguma precisão histórica, por isso recomendo a quem estiver interessado em cenários e épocas diferentes do habitual.
A decent story about life in egypt around 2000BC is marred by hamfisted writing.
It is full of 2-dimensional characters who never change (or change from one flat personality to another), constant deus ex machina (in the form of actual egyptian gods) and somewhat creepily sexual writing that is out of place and excessive.River God is narrated by a slave Taita, who, the way the book tells it, is the pinnacle of human life.
He is more annoying in that he's in no way modest; since he's narrating, he constantly tells you how good he is at everything, not that he's trying to brag.
Sei pronto a correre con me incontro alla gloria?Spettacolare 🏆
When I marked this book as currently reading, I was surprised to see that at some point I had rated it five stars.
I remember in those days going through lists and happily marking any book I either owned or recognized.
Some day I will make myself a shelf of all such books and then re-read them to see if my beginner's enthusiasm can stand up to proper scrutiny.But meanwhile I am admitting defeat with this book and marking it a DNF for now.
Meanwhile, in the interests of being fair to both myself and the book, I'm dropping my five star rating to three.
They were also best of friends and Taita knew of Tanus's and Lostris's love and had to face it everyday.Although there was love drama there was also the drama of Taita facing his fears and becoming stronger and killing a pharoah who only hurt.This book takes you on Taita's journey through pain as wells as many others.Even though there was blood,fighting and drama there was also comedy.It seems a bit hard to believe, but there was.Taiata's had his balls cut off so he could never know the pleasure of sex...I know it's cruel and all.
His historical fiction and adventure novels have continually received high praise, maintained a strong following, and for those who were fortuitous in starting a library collection of his earlier works, provided a fairly good return on their financial investments.This novel RIVER GOD, first published in 1993, is the lead book of a 4 part Egyptian series.
Of the half dozen books I’ve read by Wilbur Smith, this is one of my favorites so far.
While there may be a few new historical learning’s for novices of this period, the real purpose and draw is in the amazingly good and entertaining read.
I only read this book because it was highly recommended to me by someone.
He single-handedly invented or saved every single aspect of Egyptian history and art.
I didn't mind the length though, because the book is easy to read and action-packed.
I agree with my friend who called it a bad history but a good fiction.I did not like it much but may be if I had read this when i was 12 I may have loved it.But I still think its worth a read.
If I'm lucky, the book has plenty of research, an engaging story, and few anachronisms.
There is so much to this one that I detest, from the insufferable perfection of the lovers Lostris and Tanus, the narrator, Taita the Super-Eunuch, and host of pretty much forgettable side characters.
When the Hyksos attack Egypt in their chariots, the Egyptians are shocked and horrified.
That's the problem with this one -- the main characters are so, so perfect.
And what with all the errors -- blondes in Egypt?
-- I was so glad to see this book finished.
পরায় দুই মাস লাগলো বইটা পড়তে। এর আগে কোন বই পড়তে এত সময় লাগেনি আমার। এক টানা পড়ে যেতে পারলে তারার সংখযা আরো একটা বাড়তে পারত কিনতু সময়ের অভাবে তা হয়ে উঠেনি। বইটা আমার কাছে বেশ অদভুদ লাগলো। বই এর শেষ পাতায় উইলবার সমিথের বকতবয অনুযায়ী বই এর মূল কাহিনীটা সতয। যদিও বই উপনযাস আকারে লেখার কষেতরে লেখক হিসেবে তিনি কিছুটা সবাধীনতা নিয়েছেন। তবুও আমার বেশ অদভুদ লেগেছে। বিশেষ করে টাইটা চরিতরটা। তাকে অনেকটা বাংলা ছিনেমার নায়কের মত মনে হয়েছে আমার। সব কাজেই সে সেরা। আর তাকে উপসথাপন করাও হয়েছে সেই ভাবে। পরথমে কো
প্রায় দুই মাস লাগলো বইটা পড়তে। এর আগে কোন বই পড়তে এত সময় লাগেনি আমার। এক টানা পড়ে যেতে পারলে তারার স
i really liked this book.
Taita is an incredible character.
this was def.
a page turner, i am running to the library today(im not allowed to buy more books unless absolutly nec.
yes, i am a book a holic!) to pick up seventh scroll and warlock because i read at work and cannot bear to not have a book to occupy my time btwn xraying patients!
and i was surprised to read Mr smith's note at the end that it was based on a true archeologic find and taita was possibly an actual person that just fueled my fire to read the other books in this series!
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Devo dire che ho trovato questo libro abbastanza noioso.
Taita in particolare l’ho trovato abbastanza odioso e pieno di sé: ok che sembra essere l’unico egiziano con un po’ di cervello e qualche idea, ma sembra davvero un Dio sceso in Terra che sa fare tutto e tutto benissimo, e ovviamente non fa che vantersene!
Mamma mia che nervi!Gli altri personaggi, anche quelli abbastanza principali, proprio non mi hanno fatto né caldo né freddo e alla fine mi sono sembrati tutti di sfondo alla grandezza dello schiavo.L’unica cosa che mi è piaciuta del libro, il motivo per cui le stelline sono 2 e non 1, è la ricostruzione del mondo dell’Antico Egitto, un mondo che mi ha sempre affascinato e che in questo libro mi ha stregato.Peccato per tutto il resto…
I didn't give this book even a part of a star because I think that if you dislike a book so much that you can't read it, it doesn't deserve even a glimpse of a star. I read about a hundred pages of this book because it came so highly recommended, but I wished that I hadn't even read those. I was mostly offended by the graphic violence in those 100 pages. I'm for a book burning.
I read this years ago. Years and years ago.Mostly all of what I remember is that I loved it. I hadn't a clue that it was a series. Another handful to add to Mt. TBR? We'll see. I'm afraid it might topple over and kill me, lol.

The story takes place in 1780 BC in Egypt.The narrator, Taita, is a eunuch slave who tells the love story between Lostris, the wife of the Pharoah of Egypt, and Tanus, the commander of the Pharaoh's army. As historical background is the Hyksos invasion of Egypt.Once you start to read this book, you won't be able to put it down, believe me. The plot is fast paced and one never gets bored.
পরতারণা, ছলনা আর যুদধের এক উপাখযান।
প্রতারণা, ছলনা আর যুদ্ধের এক উপাখ্যান।
রিভার গড, ইতিহাসের এই অধযায়টির মূল রচয়িতার নাম টাইটা। এক নপুংসক মিশরীয় দাস, যে কিনা আজ থেকে পরায় ৩৮০০ বছর আগে তার উদভাবনী শকতি দিয়ে গোটা মিশরের ইতিহাস বদলে দিয়েছিলেন। দশটি অযালাবাসটারের পাতরে নিবদধ তার লেখা ইতিহাসের সকরলগুলি উদধারের পর লেখক উইলবার সমিথ নিজের ভাষায় এই ইতিহাসকে আমাদের সামনে জীবনত করে তুলেছেন।মাতর ১০ বছর বয়সে টাইটাকে যৌন দাস হিসাবে তৎকালীন মিশরের গরানড উজির ইনটেফের সেবার নিয়োজিত করার হয়। ১৬ বছর বয়সে এক পরিচারিকার সাথে শারিরীক সমপরক সথাপনের অপরাধে ইনটেফ টাইটা ছুরি দিয়ে তার পুরুষাঙগ

My father is a huge fan of Smith, was the one who first introduced me to this awesome novel. But like I said to him once I finished River God, it was only awesome up to about halfway. Afterwards, I felt as if there was no plot anymore, it was as if the story was just going through the motions and where starting off, I couldn't put the book down, I eventually found it hard work finishing it.
This is the kind of book I spent much of my teens devouring - once I got tired of all those Mills and Boon romances with the throbbing thighs.
Seriously as adults do we ever read anything with the kind of sheer abandon we had as kids?
This book tells the story of ancient Egypt through the eyes of Taita, a slave, who seems rather like a cross between Einstein, DaVinci and Michelangelo's David.
They do not write epic sagas like this much anymore, and while it will not be for everyone, I was delighted with the shenanigans of Taita, and the time I spent along the Nile during these cold winter days.
Taita, slave and eunuch, tells the story of Lostris and her lover Tanus, lady and warrior of ancient Egypt.
Lostris is sold into Pharaoh's harem, Egypt is overrun by Hyksos hordes with advanced technology in the form of chariots (with wheels, the first the Egyptians have ever seen) and recurved bows, Pharaoh is killed in battle, and Lostris leads her people south, to the source of the Nile, there to regroup and rebuild and return to reclaim Egypt for their own.Taita is a great narrator, he is vain and greedy and to hear him tell it is more multi-talented than Leonardo da Vinci.
