https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16171207-broken-harbor
scorcher represents that last of the good detectives - he is unwavering to his own code of ethics, and a very clinical detective who can handle watching the postmortems of young children without flinching, does not mind a little verbal bullying of witnesses, all in the game, and silently disdains the shortcut actions of other detectives, proud of his spotlessness in his own set of personal ethics.enter the wild.Here's what I'm trying to tell you; this case should have gone like clockwork.
By every rule in the book, this should have been the dream case.hubris is adorable, right?with tana french, it is never as interesting to find out who did it as much as why and how.
I miss Rob and Cassie. Wish she'd get back to their story :/
Reading her books is an experience.Like most fans, I waited excitedly and curiously for over a year for Broken Harbour.
The main character in Broken Harbour is "Scorcher" and he was introduced in French's last book Faithful Place.
Just an aside (but an important one!), it is not necessary to read Faithful Place or any other book by French to understand and enjoy Broken Harbour.
I wanted to quit my job and my family and just read and that is the magic of Tana French.Broken Harbour is darker than the first three books she has written, which I did not think was possible.
(B) 73% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Serviceable mystery, but the b-story lacks teeth and it's too reliant on interrogation for tension and plot development.
The plot bogs down for about 300 pages in the middle -- I was so bored that I convinced myself into thinking the end would be an action packed series of twists and turns, but no such luck.
The book ends not with a bang, but a "Huh?"Particularly disappointing was the abrubt exit from the scene of Richie, the most interesting and sympathetic character in the book, leaving us alone with the much less interesting (and far more grating) Scorcher.
At this point, French's formula has turned bitter and repetitive (the characters in Faithful Place were also highly unlikeable).
This may be my favorite of Tana French's novels, just barely overtaking In the Woods, and I loved it immensely.***At its heart, it's a book about the terror of madness, the dreams gone awry, the slow spiral that gets you to your breaking point, and the sad pathos of desperately grasping at the straws that tether you to the world of familiar safety of normalcy.The setting of this novel scares me in the way it's grounded in reality.
Tana French delivers again.Murder detective Mick ( Scorcher) Kennedy is on a high profile case located in what was formerly known as Broken Harbour, now Brianstown, where his family used to vacation.
He has a rookie, Richie, under his wing but it is Mick who tells us this story.Brianstown is a relatively new community development that promised would be residents an idyllic seaside community, a safe place to raise your family, build a life, pursue your dreams, then the economy plummeted leaving Brianstown unfinished; barren, desolate, with the few scattered residents sharing their space with teenagers run wild and other unwelcomes that squat in nearby abandoned houses.
Broken Harbour is yet another gripping psychological mystery from one of my favourite authors. I love how Ms French can always be relied on to deliver something brilliant that is far more about people and their mentalities than it is about simply solving cases. She has a real talent for creating personalities that seem to jump off the page and Scorcher Kennedy is no exception.Though all her novels offer an in-depth exploration of the human mind, I think Broken Harbour is perhaps the one that be
Is Pat Spain an overly cautious man looking out for his family, or have their recent financial worries driven him over the edge?But it's not just this novel's victims that seem prone to madness, there's a big question mark over Scorcher Kennedy himself and whether or not his childhood experiences at Broken Harbour are influencing his decisions on the case and making him irrational.
There's just an uncertainty hanging over everything in this novel, all the characters' motivations come under the microscope.Once again, this is more psychology than mystery, with the murders forming the platform on which minds can be explored.
In Broken Harbour, Tana French's 4th novel in her Dublin Murder Squad Series, Mike ("Scorcher") Kennedy, who played a minor role in the previous book, Faithful Place, https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7...
Patrick & Jenny Spain and their two small children had been brutally attacked in their home, in a decaying and unfinished housing development in Brianstown, formerly known as Broken Harbor, just outside Dublin The husband had been stabbed to death and the two children suffocated whilst the wife left barely alive.There are two storylines - the present murder and the connection to Sorcher.
Kennedy, as mentor to the rookie, is a things are black and white detective trying to educate Richie on his personal rules of investigation and interrogation.
When Pat Spain gets downsized, things start falling apart for the Spain family but was it enough for Pat to kill his family and himself?Scorcher Kennedy is a typical Tana French lead.
He's got some skeletons in his closet, namely his mother's suicide when he was 15 and his crazy sister Dina.The relationship between Scorcher and his new partner, Richie, drive the book and set it apart from typical cop dramas.
As Scorcher and Richie tug at the loose threads of the case, the story gradually shifts toward what it's like to have a relative that's insane.French's writing is as fantastic as ever, parsecs ahead of most crime books.
For some people, this is heresy or foolishness, life is divided evenly between white and black; order and chaos, good and bad, us and them.
Quite often the good guy does some bad things and the supposed villain has some redeeming qualities, sometimes quite noble.As in her other books, French also uses Broken Harbor as a vehicle to discuss the socio-economic dynamic culture of Ireland and the Irish people.
French asks some difficult questions: who are the modern Irish, and how sturdy is this new bubble of prosperity built upon generations who’ve gone without?Broken Harbor is a well told and thoughtfully crafted modern tale of difficult choices amidst a swirling eddy of grey ambiguity.
At first glance, Ocean View looked pretty tasty: big detached houses that gave you something substantial for your money, trim strips of green, quaint signposts. Second glance, the grass needed weeding and there were gaps in the footpaths. Third glance, something was wrong.“The village of the damned.” Every master of horror knows that true fear does not originate from a basement, fear crawls up through your spine through the emptiness of a vast, vacant room. Fear comes from isolation, and isolat
I do not mean that she glorifies violence and death in any way, more that she writes about it so well, be it the psychological implications of it for all the people involved, to the gut-wrenching details of the murder as the case unfolds.The writing is beautiful, not purple prosy in the least.
Everything remains in its place.The Summary: There has been a murder in Broken Harbour, an estate (a planned community) in Ireland.
Tension is everywhere, whether it's the ghost town that is Broken Harbour itself, to the mystery gradually unfolding, or the cracks that emerge in the picture-perfect family.
How ingeniously Tana French subverts the formulaic plotting of a 'psychological thriller', poking and prodding at the darkness we prefer to bury under the gloss of make-believe contentment until it becomes a threat of gargantuan proportions.
'Broken Harbour' is about the proverbial monsters of our own creation lurking in the shadows biding their time to harm what we cherish the most, the slow disintegration of that 'good life' we have put together bit by bit and how sometimes cause does not precede effect.
For the ones who steer clear of 'murder mystery novels' for their stereotypical compartmentalization of crime and detective work, I dare you to read this particular Tana French creation and remain unaffected.
It is at this point that the case and the novel take significant twists, particularly as computer forensics provide Kennedy and Curran an interesting glimpse into the life of Pat Spain and his daily struggles.
While the story progresses naturally, French uses the perfect amount of Irish brogue to give the reader a sense that they are right in the action, working out of Dublin Castle alongside Kennedy, Curran, and the other members of the Squad.
French also insinuates that there is a strong need for self-control among a number of characters, including Kennedy, Curran, and Pat Spain, though its success is measured in varying degrees throughout the story.
But the denouement of the book was too absurd to hold up, and having Jenny be the murderer -- with such a thinly-constructed rationale -- just didn't work for me.Broken Harbor has gotten raves from professional critics for elevating the detective procedural to a level of social commentary, in this case about the personal destruction wrought by the economic recession of 2008 -- and in particular here, the housing bust and surge of unemployment that hit Dublin.
Her novels go beyond the murder cases and weave layered tales about memories, the search for identity, the healing of broken families, and the social and economic issues of contemporary Ireland.
Each day that he works on the case has him scratching at the past, exposing his dark torments to the light, as he gets closer to the private lives of the Spain family.Kennedy chooses a rookie cop, Richie Curran, to help him solve the murder in an upscale housing development, one of many communities that have suffered from Dublin's economic recession.
And most of all, they have gaps in those layers – tiny ones that even they don’t know about – where the outside world can get in.Mick “Scorcher” Kennedy has his rules and he has control.
For the first time in one of her books, I genuinely had no idea who the murderer was or what happened on the night of the crime until she wanted me to.
And of course, this is Tana French, so a large part of the reason I was so deeply unsettled was because I could relate at least in part to just about everyone here – the victims, the family, even the murderer.
3.5 starsNetterooski's Top Five Suggestions For Alternate Titles: The Critter In the CrawlspaceA Rodent In the RaftersThe Monitor MurdersPaddy's Pretend Pet?Video VerminIf you've read the book, the above needs no explanation. If you haven't yet read it, prepare yourself for obsessive coverage of animal behavior.
so i was super excited to start this book and i think this was my biggest mistake.
While this started as a really gripping story with murder of a family and our detectives, Scorcher and Curran, searching for the murderer like hounds.
Scorcher was good but didn't want to see beyond a point and if not for Curran, he would have sent an innocent to prison.
I also didn't like personal/past story of Scorcher.
to share what is happening to the family?
(hide spoiler)] Whatever reason was given as the purpose of triple murders, I just can't go with it.
This is the fourth book in Tana French's 'Dublin Murder Squad' series, but - like the others - it can be read as a standalone.*****Patrick and Jenny Spain and their two young children - Emma and Jack - living in an unfinished, decaying housing development in Brianstown (formerly Broken Harbor) Ireland are attacked.
As usual with Tana French's books one of the detectives (in this case Scorcher Kennedy) has an unfortunate history with the murder locale.
When Scorcher and Richie begin to investigate the Spain calamity Patrick emerges as an early likely suspect.
In this case the book features another member of the Dublin Murder Squad, Mick "Scorcher" Kennedy, who first appeared in a minor role in French's last book, Faithful Place.Kennedy has the best solve rate on the squad.
The repercussions of that event are still reverberating through Kennedy's life as he tackles this current tragic case, and the combination of the two incidents may be enough to overwhelm even the superstar of the Dublin Murder Squad.French has created here another cast of unforgettable characters, both among the family members who are the victims of the crime and the detectives who must attempt to solve it.
Adults, grown men and women who've been around the block a few times, know that boring is a gift straight from God." (p.11)"It made her shoulder jump, the sudden feel of our fingers probing deep into their lives." (p.251)."I could smell the hospital off her, disinfected and polluting." "There was a moment of silence that could have sliced skin." (view spoiler)[Here's where French kicked my ass: almost every single character in this story is concealing something.
Don't read the next part unless you want to talk specifics.(view spoiler)[The first clue things are starting to go bad--well, the first blaze orange road sign--is when he decides against confiding in Richie.
Scorcher knows the place by its old name, Broken Harbor, when it was nothing but sand dunes, a pub, a few scattered houses and lots for caravans, like those Scorcher's family used to rent for summer retreats there.Also on the case is Richie Curran, Scorcher's rookie partner who's been with the squad for two weeks and hasn't learned how to dress himself properly, favoring hoodies that make him look more like a mugger than a Murder detective.
Broken Harbor is the fourth book in French's Dublin Murder Squad series, and it follows Mick "Scorcher" Kennedy and his rookie partner, Richie, who are trying to solve the murders of a father and his two children.
One of the things I especially liked about Broken Harbor was Scorcher's ongoing advice to Richie, who is new to the squad.
Even though this is fiction, French's writing is so good and her characters feel so real that Scorcher's teachings seemed like something actual murder detectives would say.I highly recommend Tana French's novels for anyone who likes well-written psychological thrillers.Opening Passage"Let's get one thing straight: I was the perfect man for this case.
The miracle of differing personalities finding enough common ground and what gets wrapped up in little packaged meanings, often trite and way too oversimplified, like spark, chemistry, fellowship, love, bro, sister, bffs 4evah, besties, comrade, we tight yo,...family.
I don't resent them, but I do covet.But I was talking to someone recently about this and that, and ended up getting told, without really being prompted by me, in response to something about how sweet his wife and girls are and how lucky he is, that it may look like that but it isn't usually that great, that it takes a lot (you could hear the combination of italics, bolding, and underlining in his voice) of work.
Much better than the third book in the series, and some great buildup, as always, but UGH, Tana French needs to learn to stick the landing. I'm still frustrated over the ending of the first book, and only the second has had an ending deserving of the previous x pages. With this one, unrealistic character choices makes for an ending that doesn't quite make any sense, and certainly doesn't match the journey we took to get there. But, it was better than the third book? Now can we PLEASE find out what happened to Adam?
Broken Harbor is not maybe my favorite novel of hers (I think Faithful Place is), but definitely not weaker than any of her previous works.All her books are psychological thrillers, not fast-paced, not action-packed, but slow-moving and interrogation-heavy, and Broken Harbor sticks to the same format.
However, if I look back, all her novels without fail explore the depths of human mind, power of memories and their effect on investigative work, and involve mentally unstable characters.Like detectives in all previous books in Dublin Murder Squad series, the chief investigator Mick (Scorcher) Kennedy is full of mental baggage of his own (who doesn't have it though?).

This was probably the darkest subject matter covered in this series so far. Or at least it was one of the more difficult cases to read about. I don't have much more to say other than I love this series and each book is unique but fits so well into the world she's crafted. The writing is strong, the characters are extremely well-developed, and I almost never know what's going to happen next.
It is a thing that cannot be named, or at least, I hardly know where to start.Because the book is written in first person, narrated by Detective Mick “Scorcher” Kennedy, whom we met briefly in Faithful Place, we get an inside view of the case at Broken Harbor from the very beginning.
All the while he’s been on this case, his memories have been bombarding him because Broken Harbor is where, when he was a teenager and Dina was only five, their lives were changed forever.
At one point, someone, I believe it’s Richie, makes a comment about the name Broken Harbor.
