https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222604.Sculptor_s_Daughter
If you ask me right now, I'll tell you that this is the single most important book I have ever read in my life. And it will be the absolute truth. And the fact that there were other most important books earlier and there will be other most important books later (I hope) doesn't make it a tiny bit less true.В конце концов мы спасли все что можно было спасти, и мама отправилась варить кофе.Как-то так.
Чаровна и опасна книга с двойно дъно, което също има двойно дъно, на двойното дъно на което, под бродираните покривки от детството и коледните украси, лежи една гигантска безформена емоция и прелива от жега до мраз и от еуфория до ужас през нюанси и етапи без име. Апокалиптичното мислене на едно момиченце, което ще стане Туве Янсон и ще разказва апокалиптичното мислене на едно момиченце - много си заслужава да се прочете.
Понякога срещаш книги, които държат сала ти на повърхността, които не ти позволяват да губиш самообладание дори в най-гъстата мъгла.
Тези книги ти даряват любов и е трудно да не им отвърнеш със същото."Дъщерята на скулптура" е книга за прехода към зимата.
За онези почти неуловими движения на душата, с които тя се увива в собствената си тишина и диша дълбоко студения въздух.Туве Янсон прави света да изглежда толкова лесен за разбиране, лек и магичен.
В книгата има усещане за летене, за ведрина и вяра, които биха накарали дори циник да се усмихне и да си спомни детството.
When the log-fire is alight we draw up the big chair. We turn out the lights in the studio and sit in front of the fire and she says: once upon a time there was a little girl who was terribly pretty and her mummy liked her so awfully much ... Every story has to begin in the same way, then it's not so important what happens. A soft, gentle voice in the warm darkness and one gazes into the fire and nothing is dangerous. Everything else is outside and can't get in. Not now or at any time.
Смееше се по-често и показваше по-голяма част от големите си ръце и крака.”„Дъщерята на скулптура” е от любимия ми тип сборници – някои герои, често „второстепенни”, се появяват в различните разкази и допринасят за атмосферата на съответното място.И друго любимо – не зная лек хумор ли да го нарека точно, може би по-скоро специфично свежо настроение, детска хитроумност.„На сутринта е изключително важно да не започнеш да разчистваш прекалено явно.”„Хубава е – казах, защото не върви нищо да не кажеш, когато някой е уловил риба.”„Мама, разбира се, не е и никога не е била лелка.”„Тя поглежда към татко и казва: „Май си прав”, но остане ли сама, прави каквото си е наумила.”„Понякога, докато работиш, е полезно да се разсееш с нещо дружелюбно, което не говори.”„Лелките не ме притесняват – те могат да те докарат до отчаяние само ако си скулптор.” „Аз гледах да не му преча и само веднъж му показах моите камъни.
"Дъщерята на скулптора" е от онези книги, за които не ти се иска да пишеш или да говориш. Можеш само да споделиш. Безспорно се нарежда сред най-любимите ми на Туве Янсон!Ревю за "Аз чета".
Out at sea the long-tailed ducks were carrying on like mad singing wedding songs to one another.”“Once at twilight when Daddy was standing outside the house a bat flew straight into his arms.
This time it only stopped for a moment – a kind of courtesy call.”“I crept into the wardrobe underneath the skirt and looked up inside it and now it was a light shaft that faded away into the darkness.
I hear the clothes hanger swing and scrape the top of the wardrobe and the skirt came after me.”“If you stood in the furthest room you could see through all the other rooms and it made you feel sad; it was like a train ready to leave with its lights shining over the platform.
Разкази от детството(Цялото ревю е тук: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...) Чета толкова много разкази, че не ми остава много време да живея в действителността.
Може би това не е далеч от истината.
Един разказ е цял свят, а двайсет са многоизмерна вселена, в която се сбъдват всички желания.
И Туве си спомня, разказва за детството, изпълнено с фантазии, мистерии и чудеса.
Човек попада в една лична аномалия, избуяваща като изоставена от десетилетия градина.
Детството.
Ако ти трябва нещо приказно, върни лентата и се потопи в детството.
Това е Туве в „Дъщерята на скулптура“ („Жанет 45“, 2015, с превод на Анелия Петрунова).(Продължава в блога: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...)
♥ ♥ ♥(Ainoa miinus, joka on täysin itse teoksen kannalta irrelevantti, tulee näistä WSOY:n juhlavuosipokkareista. Milloin kirjat on täynnä järjettömiä määriä kirjoitusvirheitä, milloin takakansitekstit ovat sellaisen kynästä, joka ei todennäköisesti ole kirjaa edes lukenut/lukee kaiken Toveen liittyvän vain muumien kautta. Niin tai näin, alkuperäispainokset kiinnostaisivat enemmän, mutta ehkä joitain aiempia versioita vielä joskus tulee vastaan niin, että nämä voi niillä korvata.)
Снегът!Отидох на тавана и се заех да наблюдавам снега.
Качих се на тавана и го чух как настъпва, как се захваща, настанява и разраства.
Не можех да мисля за друго освен за снега..
На сутринта светлината беше зелена - подводна светлина в цялата стая.
Аз станах, отворих вратата и видях, че лампите навсякъде са запалени, въпреки че е сутрин, а зелената светлина идва през снега, закрил прозорците чак догоре.
Беше се случило значи.
Положението беше напълно безнадеждно.Обзе ме много тържествено настроение и пълно спокойствие и седнах на килима пред горящия огън.
A completely unique book compiled of fragments of Tove Jansson's childhood, written as if they are being told by Tove the child.
As a consequence, the memories are magical, surreal, Her parents are artists, and their bohemian love allows Tove the space and freedom to ignite her imagination at every turn.
While I was reading, I kept thinking about how modern children - at least the ones I know in Los Angeles - are not allowed the freedom to wander, the freedom to wonder, to imagine that they'd just turned into a reed or a jelly-fish.It is not a completely idealized past.
Wspaniałe.
Ухуу! Ей тва е яка книжка. Нямаше една историйка, която да ми беше тъпа или мудна. Лично за мен доказателство за достойнството на сборника е, че както при други такива ( Геймън гледам към теб) оставих 2-3 непрочетени, с цел да си имам нещо спестено за по-тежки времена.
Когато човек е болен, най-хубавото, което може да му се случи между температурестите лутания, е да попадне на точната книга с приказки. Пиша това, защото аз попаднах на такава – „Дъщерята на скулптора“ от вечната Туве Янсон (изд. „Жанет 45, 2015), която макар автобиографична, съхранява детска магия в нея...http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2015/11/blo...
Imagine a peculiar blend of a female Calvin (yes, Calvin & Hobbes), the film “My Life as a Dog” and the moomintrolls and you can begin to appreciate the style and atmosphere of this sweet little memoir.
A whimsical style blending reality and imagination allows one to experience life with her artistic parents and nonsensical outings into nature.
It would be interesting to read more about Tove Jansson's life and her works beyond the Moomintroll books (delightful by the way) as many of her adult novels/stories have gained traction due to recent translations.
To niesamowite jak Tove Jansson potrafi opowiedzieć fragmenty swojego dzieciństwa głosem małej dziewczynki, co wcale nie brzmi infantylnie, ale magicznie przeobraża nas, abyśmy spojrzeli na jej świat oczami dziecka. To jest taka kochana, ciepła, magiczna książeczka, którą się rozkoszujesz i dajesz sobie po kawałeczku jak najlepszy deser. Nie dziwię, że ten umysł stworzył świat Muminków. Przecież ona nawet swoją codzienność widziała w tak magiczny sposób.Dziękuję kochana Pyzo za pożyczenie mi tej książki <3
С едно изречение - "Вървя през гора от въображението на Йон Бауер."
Влюбена съм в тези разкази.
As the title of the collection suggests, art is an important part of family life - it is both occupation and language.Jansson's writing is deceptively simple, and each of these stories has a very particular and consistent voice - the voice of a child, presumably Tove herself, but shaped by an adult's consciousness, too.
All along, there is the half-knowledge that the world of her emotions is being partly manipulated by her - she realises that she is telling a sort of story to herself, even as she is in thrall to that story.
Dzieciństwo jest najbardziej intensywnym - pod każdym względem - okresem życia.
Wszystko jest przygodą, wszystko jest magią, wszystkie strachy i radości są kilkukrotnie większe, nasza dusza zajmuje cały wszechświat, a my jesteśmy w jego centrum.
Ale nie każdy potrafi ująć wspomnienia w tak pełne uroku, poezji i okrutnej szczerości teksty.Książka idealna dla tych, którzy kochają Muminki i są świeżo po lekturze biografii Tove Jansson - w "Córce rzeźbiarza" wszystkie te historie układają się w całość, wszystko do siebie pasuje.
Życie i twórczość Tove były spójne, była prawdziwą artystką."Najbezpieczniejszym jest się w czyichś objęciach.
Ale najlepiej jest chyba siedzieć na wysokim drzewie.
O ile nie jest się jeszcze w brzuchu swojej mamy."
To my disappointment, 13 of the 18 stories in this volume were already published as The Winter Book, so there was little here that was new to me.
Also, the stories do not together create what I would call a memoir.
I suppose I shouldn’t have expected a straightforward life story from the impish mind behind the Moomins.
Of the stories that were new to me, I liked best “Pets and Females,” about her father’s artistic models and various animal companions, especially his pet monkey, Poppolino.
I’m surprised I’ve never encountered the sweet final story, “Christmas,” in any holiday anthologies.
Novellien aitous, lapsenomainen luottamus ja Janssonin kertojanääni saavat sydämen sulamaan. Puoliksi äidin ääneen lukemana täydellistä.
You whisper and whisper and let the world grow until nothing exists except the word.”(2)"Sometimes I think all strong feelings start in the tummy; for me they do at any rate"(3)" Some people just draw as they like and don’t give a fig for the author.
An illustrator has to think of the author and the reader and sometimes even of the publisher."(4)“If you stood in the furthest room you could see through all the other rooms and it made you feel sad; it was like a train ready to leave with its lights shining over the platform.

I am a lifelong fan of the Moomintroll books. When I heard about this memoir, I had to read it. It was an unexpected delight. Not a traditional autobiography at all, but rather a series of vignettes of Finnish childhood, sometimes difficult and often magical. Always enthralling shown from within the consciousness of a small, independent, artistic girl, with all the strange internal logic that implies. The writing is spare and lyrical. You don't need to be a fan of hers to enjoy this lovely little book, but if you are, you may recognize the spirit of Little My here.
This is a wonderful depiction of the life led by an imaginative child. I loved the way the narrator of the book wasn't an adult looking back at her childhood, but a very young person who has a unique yet believable viewpoint on life. A gem for sure.
Some bits really stood out - her relationship with the household staff, her exploration of the countryside on her own, the grown-up political talk (with the recent horrible civil war an unspoken background), all built up parts of the bigger picture.It's a very short book - 160 pages - and Moomin fans can safely try it as a sampler for Jansson's adult work.
Magic :)I read that just after reading "Sommarbocken", a novel written by Tove with a somehow similar plot. Both of the books (even if the this one is biographic) talk about a little girl and its odd, fantastic relation with reality when in perspective with adults in a very exquisite and special situations. I mention the other book because sometimes, while reading that one, Ive got myself to believe I was reading the other book.I recommending reading both, even at the same time if possible!
Magic :)I read that just after reading "Sommarbocken", a novel written by Tove with a somehow similar plot. Both of the books (even if the this one is biographic) talk about a little girl and its odd, fantastic relation with reality when in perspective with adults in a very exquisite and special situations. I mention the other book because sometimes, while reading that one, I´ve got myself to believe I was reading the other book.I recommending reading both, even at the same time if possible!
This was my Christmas present to myself and I shouldn't have devoured it in just one day. I was expecting a rather more straightforward memoir, but it's really a collection of dream-like short stories, fragments, recollections, each building on from each other, all together building up to a child's view of a bohemian world, filled with fears, hardship but also charm. One to read and reread many times. The transparent simplicity of style, that wistfulness and melancholia which speaks so much of Moomintroll and Snufkin.
Jansson dokonuje czegoś niesamowitego, uwalniając w narracji dziecięcą wrażliwość i wyobraźnię. Uderzało mnie podczas lektury, jak bardzo bycie "Córką rzeźbiarza" stanowiło doświadczenie totalne, jak silnie cała ta opowieść przesiąknięta jest sztuką i artyzmem. Zachwyt wzbudza też ostatnie wydanie, które ukazało sie nakładem Wydawnictwa Marginesy. Najpiękniejsza okładka jaką kiedykolwiek widziałam, mogłabym mieć osobną półkę tylko dla tej książki.
