https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869987-don-t-look-now-and-other-stories
Although the other four short stories in this collection are every bit as chilling it's "Don't Look Now" that stands out from the rest as a terrifying masterpiece of slow-burning tension, which is spine-chilling as hell but also tender and intimate, a perfect distillation of the confusion and desire that attend grief for a married couple, which, as the story progresses, adventures forward through the winding streets of Venice with the logic of a nightmare.
This is in essence a haunting ghost story which looks at the close affinity of a loving couple and the emotional reactions of losing a child.
just another day at the beach for the chilly and not particularly empathetic Ms. du Maurier, who is all too familiar with humanity's constant ability to fool itself.The talent on display reminded me of both Ruth Rendell and Joyce Carol Oates.
"The Breakthrough" could have been a mournful exploration of things spiritual and material, but du Maurier's cold eye made the story feel more like a cautionary tale both desolate and eerie.
But du Maurier makes it clear that a Reverend should not see himself as above his flock, even if he is in charge of a flock of assholes.
The first three stories in this collection (Don't Look Now, Not After Midnight, and A Border-Line Case) are absolutely wonderful. They're very atmospheric and, at times, chilling. I'd recommend this whole collection on those stories alone. However, it's the final two works (The Way of the Cross and The Breakthrough) that really let down this collection and thus rob it of a four-star rating. They're two bland stories that don't really offer much and only exist to disappoint.
Happy Short Story Month! (May, 2017)This is a collection of five short stories by Daphne du Maurier (Don't Look Now, The Breakthrough, Not After Midnight, A Border-Line Case, The Way of the Cross) which exhibit the great versatility and inventiveness of the author. The topics vary from psychic precognition, to scientific experimentation, to possible murder, to incest, and finally to various forms of public humiliation (atonement for sins?) All were interesting but I found some of the endings a bit disappointing. All in all worth reading but I have to say I appreciate du Maurier's full length novels more.
An interesting collection full of stories of subtle (and in some cases, not so subtle) horror and suspense. My favourite was definitely the title story, Don't Look Now, and sadly, some stories didn't really work for me, hence the 3-star rating.
The reason why I focus on this one is that I can be a little more lenient with my no spoilers since I am sure everything has either heard or seen the film plus I had a rather strange experience this morning which brought the story in to focus.I long thought that the scene in the film with the crows in the play ground was a little contrived (stay with me you will get there) as it was well know that Hitchcock would not mind bending a few rules if it meant a better cinematic experience.
A word of caution: Do not confuse this book,   Don't Look Now and Other Stories with   Don't Look Now: Selected Stories of Daphne Du Maurier. They are not the same book. The only things they have in common are the the title story and the author. Both books are fine, mind you, but if you are participating in a group discussion and the stories you are reading aren't the same as what everyone else is reading, you will likely feel left out in the cold. That said, this is a fine collection of stories
Don't Look Now: Selected Stories of Daphne Du Maurier.
Both books are fine, mind you, but if you are participating in a group discussion and the stories you are reading aren't the same as what everyone else is reading, you will likely feel left out in the cold.
That said, this is a fine collection of stories by an exceptional author.
Maybe I expect more from the author of Rebecca and Jamaica Inn but I felt like she set up several of the stories for a big finish and then....they just ended.
Just an extra word or two: if you've never seen the spectacular 1973 Italian-British film Don't Look Now, it's definitely one you should watch because it's truly a classic!This collection of stories has inspired film and television for years, it's been released in numerous editions and it deals with difficult topics such as grief, a subject often not spoken of back in the day. Each of these stories has a moral message within its words, and beautiful worldly imagery and excellent suspense aside, each story has something new to offer.
I loved the title story, Don`t Look Now (I must watch the film again; I saw it years ago and it frightened the life out of me!) but I didn`t like all the short stories in this collection, especially the last two. But it`s du Maurier and I love her, so still 4 stars from me!
I loved the title story, Don`t Look Now (I must watch the film again; I saw it years ago and it frightened the life out of me!) but I didn`t like all the short stories in this collection, especially the last two. But it`s du Maurier and I love her, so still 4 stars from me!
--Don't Look Now--Not After Midnight--A Border-Line Case--The Way of the Cross--The Breakthrough
The story opens as they fear they are being followed by a pair of elderly twins: their joking about the sisters takes a more sinister turn when one approaches Laura and claims she can see the ghost of their daughter alongside them.On my first attempt at reading this, I actually didn't feel much inclined to carry on with the book.
This was partly because I'd already read a summary of the book which, irritatingly, gave away what I assumed was the main twist of this story's plot - (view spoiler)[the fact that Nick is involved with the IRA (hide spoiler)] - and I just didn't think this revelation was going to be enough to make the whole saga exciting.
This is a collection of five novella length short stories in the range of 50-70 pages.
Venice, Crete, Ireland, Jerusalem, and East Anglia are the settings.
For a better synopsis see the GR review of this edition.
Apparently there are a couple of collections by the same name, I almost reviewed the wrong edition.
I am a diehard fan of Du Maurier and find her quite fascinating.
I place her work somewhere between that of Patricia Highsmith and Shirley Jackson.
Some of the subjects she pursues are psychic predictions, telepathic triggers, experiments to capture the electrical energy released at the time of death, rogue treasure hunting, mythology, and terrorism.
Rating 3.5
It's not surprising, though, that Hitchcock was drawn to Du Maurier's story telling.
During his stay, he meets a suspicious couple, leading him to wonder what may have really happened to the former fated guest that night.The Alibi -- A man has a sudden image of everyone as puppets and he as the master puppeteer.
While there, they meet two old twin sisters (one a blind psychic) who not only know of the child's death, but predict another tragedy to follow.Needless to say, all of the stories in this collection are quite dark and bizarre.
A collection of five short stories, all totally unrelated to one another in terms of style, theme and even the prose. The first story, Don't Look Now, was really good and daunting, and it gives you that 'Du Maurier feel' that I love. The last story concluded the collection with a - for that time - sci-if story which was somewhat boring to read but surprisingly ended with chills. Good or bad, her stories always linger on... Overall a creepy collection by one of my fav writers.
I must admit my purchase of this book was dictated by the knowledge that its titular short story was the basis for Nic Roeg's film Don't Look Now - a favourite and one of the best weird films of the '70s.
This title has been given to a number of du Maurier collections featuring variant stories, so it's worth noting that my version contained 'Don't Look Now', 'Not After Midnight', A Border-Line Case', 'The Way of the Cross' and 'The Breakthrough'.
The bad news is that if you've come looking for the text version of Roeg's film, you'll probably be disappointed.
*Don't Look Now (1971)- Is about a couple on vacation in Venice, trying to enjoy life after their daughter's death but circumstances and possible psychic happenings have put a wrench into those plans.
*Not After Midnight (1971) A schoolteacher on vacation to Greece finds not the rest and relaxation he was looking for but life changing circumstances, which were added by his curiosity of unexplained occurences.
*A Border-Line Case (1971) A young actress witnesses her father's death and his unexplained horror in this last moments when he saw her.
Me gusta cómo esta escritora te introduce en situaciones aparentemente normales que poco a poco se van convirtiendo en espeluznantes sin darte ni cuenta.Quizás también me estoy dando cuenta de que soy incapaz de disfrutar al 100% los relatos, así en general, porque siempre me quedo con ganas de saber más, sobre todo de los personajes.
Pero eso no es culpa del libro, sino mía que sigo insistiendo.Me quedo con Rebecca, y con muchas ganas de leer más novelas de la autora porque es una mujer a la que no os podéis perder.
Listened to the audiobook - it was a little confusing at first, but the music and sound effects really added to the mood of the stories.
I immediately noted that the copy I downloaded was missing ‘The Birds’ and ‘Blue Lenses’ so I’ve moved my review to the version I actually read, instead of the one I THOUGHT I was reading.
I’ll now have to track down NYRB’s ‘Don’t Look Now - SELECTED STORIES.’This collection was still a worthy read though, leading me on a whirlwind tour of rich locales - Venice, Crete, Ireland, Jerusalem, Suffolk.
Now I’m off to find the NYRB version because my October creep-fest won’t be complete without a reading of ‘The Birds.’
À part la 4ème histoire qui m’a moins convaincue, j’ai adoré ce recueil de nouvelles mystérieuses, vaguement gothiques, qui concentrent tout ce que j’aime chez l’autrice de Rebecca !
And her treatment of sexual matters, which Christie would have kept under wraps if she had acknowledged them at all, is that much more explicit, though never gross.Sex plays a part too in "A Borderline Case." After her father dies, nineteen-year-old Jinnie decides to look up a long-estranged colleague of his in Ireland, with no knowledge of what she will find.
Where du Maurier goes with this is somewhere that Agatha Christie (and probably not Kate Atkinson either) would never, ever have touched.

However, my favorite story in this collection was actually the last story entitled “The Way of the Cross.” In this story, an odd jumble of church members with varying problems and degrees of faith experiences a set-back on their tour of the Holy Land during the Passover week when their pastor and tour guide falls ill.
My favorite part of the story is actually the ending because Maurier suggests that Jesus has brought everyone back together with a love-of-neighbor motivation.
The other stories i'll read them in the future.Μόλις τελείωσα σε λιγότερες από δυο ωρίτσες την εξαιρετικά ενδιαφέρουσα και καλογραμμένη αυτή νουβέλα, που κυκλοφόρησε ξεχωριστά στα ελληνικά από τις εκδόσεις Μελάνι, με τον τίτλο "Μετά τα μεσάνυχτα".
Οι δυο πρώτες είναι κλασικές στο είδος τους και εξαιρετικά ιντριγκαδόρικες και συναρπαστικές, η τρίτη λίγο πιο αδύναμη αλλά αρκετά καλή.Όσον αφορά την ιστορία "Don't look now", που έγινε και ταινία το 1973 με πρωταγωνιστή τον Ντόναλντ Σάδερλαντ, είναι μια ιδιαίτερα μυστηριώδης νουβέλα, όπου βλέπουμε ένα ζευγάρι, τον Τζον και την Λόρα, να κάνει τις διακοπές του στην μαγευτική Βενετία, με σκοπό να ξεχάσουν και οι δυο τους τον πρόσφατο θάνατο της μικρής τους κόρης.
John and Laura are on holiday in Venice, trying to come to terms with the death of their five-year-old daughter, Christine.
They are having dinner in a restaurant when they encounter a pair of elderly twins, one of whom is blind and psychic.
But following his wife's departure, John is convinced that he has seen her in Venice with the twins, and a search for her ensues.The narrator of 'Not After Midnight', Timothy Grey, is a rather timid English schoolmaster and amateur artist.
Having surrendered to his own curiosity, Grey follows the odd pair and ends up receiving an invitation to visit the Americans in their chalet...
Don’t Look Now; a collection of five (long) short stories by Daphne Du Maurier first published in 1971 show her to have been a superb writer of shorter fiction as well as novels.
My kind of short stories usually come wrapped in covers of soft dove grey these days, and these are of a very similar kind.
These stories are each between about fifty and seventy pages long – my favourite kind of short stories are the meaty kind – and these dark tales are the kind to fully immerse a reader.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2016/...
เคยดูหนังมาแลว แนนอนวานีเปนหนังสือทีมีแคเรืองสันเดียว แมรายละเอียดจะนอยกวาหนัง แตกยังรูสีก 'หลอน' อยูดี ชอบการสรางบรรยากาศในเรืองมาก และยังคงชอคกับตอนจบอยูดี
เคยดูหนังมาแล้ว แน่นอนว่านี่เป็นหนังสือที่มีแค่เรื่องสั้นเดียว แม้รายละเอียดจะน้อยกว่าหนัง แต่ก็ยังรู้สีก 'หลอน' อยู่ดี ชอบการสร้างบรรยากาศในเรื่องมาก และยังคงช็อคกับตอนจบอยู่ดี
Overall beautiful collection of short stories by Du Maurier.
Common theme of taking people out of their home elements and somewhat twisting their world."Don't Look Now" - 5/5 - Creepy as tale of a couple on holiday, a psychic twins and messages from beyond.
"Not After Midnight" - 3/5 - Not the same level of creepy as "Don't Look Now", but still an interesting tale of schoolmaster trying to get a holiday.
Hard to pick where the mystical begins and the imagination ends."A Borderline Case" - 2/5 - I'll have to say this is not my favourite of this collection.
Whether it's the tale of a married couple on holiday in Venice in order to heal after the loss of their child, and their encounter with a blind sister who sees that child with them; or the tale of an artist on holiday in Greece to paint, inhabiting the cottage where an archaeologist last stayed and drowned, and his encounter with a strange American couple; or a woman whose father dies with an expression of anguish and astonishment on his face and her quest to find his former friend (and the dark surprise that unearths); or the comic tale of a group of parishioners in Jerusalem on tour with the vicar (a replacement for their usual more competent one) and the series of mishaps that enfolds, the encounters with truth and shame nearly all undergo (but the 9-year-old truth-telling grandson), Du Maurier never fails to amuse and above all enchant us.Note: GR gives the same ISBN to this edition as it does to the collection published by NYRB.
