https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123570.The_High_Graders
So far, all the LL books I've read have kept me very interested until the end.
I had to force myself to pick this one up again to finish it and even then, I skipped some description paragraphs just to get to the end of the book, concentrating on the dialogue between characters.
There were quite a few characters in this book to keep track of.
Midway through the story, I had to stop and remind myself which character was who and even had to backtrack once to get it straight in my noggin!!!
Convoluted for a Western - probably because L'Amour tried to put too much murder-mystery into it, and as such had to use much too large of a cast of characters, most of which weren't fleshed out enough to care much. Also didn't work well because it was pretty easy to see whodunnit halfway through the book.
Mike Shevlin didn't believe Eli Patterson had died in a gunfight.
He rides to Rafter Crossing to uncover the truth but finds a conspiracy.One of the reasons I like L'Amour's book is because of the honorable characters.
Good versus evil.
No middle ground.Mike wanted the truth and would die if necessary to obtain it.
His friend deserved the truth, even if he was in the ground.The lawless west needed good characters to shape it.
Shevlin was one of the good guys.
This story went deeper into the thoughts of the character compared to other L'Amour books.
Mike Shevlin had been gone from Rafter Crossing for many years until he heard that his "father" figure, Eli Patterson, had been killed in a shoot-out on the street.
He knew something was amiss since Eli was a Quaker and didn't ever carry a gun.
He returns to find out the truth of what really happened.
Then upon his return he finds out that rather than the peaceful cattleman's town its now a mining town with many more problems.
The miners are high grading the gold from the mines and the miners are polluting the water for the cattlemen.
One thing I really like about Louis L'Amour is straight ahead writing style. He uses just enough words to say what he wants and doesn't waste your time with wordy and tedious fluff and transgressions. This book is a typical western in many respects, but the plot is rather intricate and without any huge holes and convenient coincidences, although there are a few. Basically a good old western yarn!
A typical L'Amour.Louis L'amour wrote dozens of westerns and historical fiction novels as well as a few shamanistic and more modern pieces. His worst works were a pleasure to read while his best writing was breathtaking. This book fits solidly in the middle. The story was good. The characters seem well defined without being complex. It was entertaining and enjoyable.
These books are good, but, they just are NOT the quality of Louis L'Amour. I can tell his writing from these. Maybe he started them, but, someone else finished them. This is my opinion only. Anyway, it was a good book.
Really enjoyed this one for my first Louis L'Amour book. Lots of ins and outs with the plot that made it intriguing and not just a typical revenge western. Some really great characters throughout the book, too. I definitely plan on reading more L'Amour.
Solid Western novel, with everything you could ask for without overused clichés. Written with the knowledge that helps bring the reader into the story in a believable way. L'Amour deserves all the praise he receives.
This was definitely one of L'Amour's earlier novels and it had a lot of poor choices by the main characters. It read more like a dime novel than some of his later works. It isn't the worst book I've read, but it's definitely not one of the better ones.
Good story about mining and the impact on the community. Also about theft of gold from a working mine, and the resulting crime and problems to community.
A little more complex than his usual formula.
Classic Louis L'Amour. Good characters, historical details, a few holes in the plot, but thoroughly enjoyable.
It's been a while since I read my last western novel so I chose The High Graders by Louis L'Amour, my 64th book by this author.
In fact, with the completion of this book, I have now read more Louis L'Amour books than books by any other author.
This book is quite a bit different from the usual L'Amour novel in that it features quite a few major characters as well as a rather complicated plot.
Even though this is a typically short western novel (184 paperback pages in my copy) there were times when it seemed to drag.
The high graders by Louis L'Amour is a classic western novel from one of the most known western writers.
It tells of a small town getting changed from a cattle town to a mining town and the mines and owners become corrupt and take the town with it.
He ends up taking on the corrupt owners of the mine in a big showdown while they were trying to ship the gold out.
As is typical with Louis L'Amour stories, the main character takes them down and marries the girl he saves and goes off to live happily ever after.
I have not run across a Louis L’Amour book that I haven’t liked.
And I did like The High Graders.
But this one didn’t necessarily grab me like the other stories that I have read.
If you are looking for a short story to take you through a hot weekend, by all means pick up this book…heck, pick up any Louis L’Amour book and sit down for an enjoyable read.
Nobody knows how to write a western as we as he did.The High Graders receives a good grade from me.I rated this book a 7 out of 10.
This was a very good book that I would recommend to anyone who likes Louis L'Amour.
In the book a man named Mike Shevlin went back to his home town to find out who killed his old friend, when he got there it had been turned into a mining town and had pushed all the ranchers out.
Another old friend was in charge of the mines and was high-grading, which was illegal.
Mike exposed him and the whole thing exploded causing the mine owners to fire him and the the old friend and Mike had a shooting fight and Mike was shot but still won.
This is a great book. Rafter Crossing was filled with tension when Mike Shevlin rode in. The cattlemen hated the mines that were poisoning the water. The miners were stealing high-grade ore that belonged by rights to Laine Tennison. Laine hired Mike to get it back. Mike had an old debt he wanted to pay back, and the job of returning the gold fit right in with his plans. If you like westerns, this is not to be missed.
I will say that i liked Shevlin a lot. I enjoyed the story, but L'amore is disappointing to me. I dont understand what all the fuss is about. Honestly. His books arent anything special and i dont like the way he writes sometimes. However, i keep reading because some of the parts in the stories are actually great. I think we will butt heads alot but, as i said, they are good 'in-between' books.
Typical Louis l'amour except he does do a few twists and a few unusual leaps that are less predictable than most of his books. Personally I love Louis for what he does but I only gave 3 stars because I don't think his books reach a very broad audience. I love them as quick trip readers that take me to a time when life was very different.
Another great Louis L'amour. Liked the main character in this book. It played out a great western film.
Another one involving mining. Pretty good.
read some time in 1987
I used the concept of "high-grading" in my novel "the Return of the Nice Guy". Decided not to explain what that meant and hope the context fills people in.
Enjoyed the read.
In a mining camp, the troubles and problems are always the same. Except when the boss and a small group know where the ore is really coming from.
Pretty good yarn. Heroes were just men too
i thought it was a great book but it definitely wasnt my favorite Louis Lamour book. its about a gold mine being high graded and a man goes in to stop the stealing he succeeds.
Oh, the difficulties of a female mine owner. Good thing a guy is on hand to solve the problem (Actually, I always like the women L'Amour writes. They are rarely shrinking violets.).
I have read a lot of L'Amour's books...trust me there are better. (Galloway, Bowdrie, Utah Blaine, Milo Talon, etc.....)
