https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103527.Many_Mansions
Do some trees die off in the Winter?
Does the Acorn fall from the Oak Tree and new life begins?
The green shoots of new beginnings.
Do we come from dust and return to dust?
Buried and returned to the Earth?
Whence life begins.Or cremated and the Ashes blowing in the wind to settle and return to the Earth?
Is it a natural universal concept?
Like natures pattern?
Is it a repetitive concept?
Rearing, controlling life for food.
Do we come back because we have not fulfilled our lifetime?
Are we punished and come back as a pig?
Was all life created?
Excellent book - definitely changed my attitude towards reincarnation as a philosophy. I may have to consider myself a true believer at this point! While not always the most logically sound presentation of the concepts involved, it certainly contained enough gems for me to find it a fascinating and very insightful read. Best moment - uncovering the solution to the paradox of the importance of meaning and purpose in this life vs. the ultimate meaninglessness of existence. Really good stuff :)
This book certainly broadened my perspective on past lives. The case studies end in 1945, so the view of homosexuality is odd: it's not clear if the clients of the readings, Cayce, or Cerminara considered it a problem in the current life.
You'll probably like it!" (I feel like my friends will now exploit knowing this about me and I'll be reading some ridiculous recommendations)Many Mansions falls into this category...
The book is built on a foundation of beliefs and assumptions that I simply do not (and probably can not) believe, and therefore as I read page after page I could assign very little validity to the arguments the author was making.
Sometimes I feel like karma is playing out in the lives around me, but I do not feel like karma - or any of these beliefs - are as scientifically quantifiable as the author professes them to be.
I read this when it was first published in the late 1960's and still remember being absolutely stunned. I can actually see myself reading as I walked down the street in San Francisco where I was working as a legal secretary, completely absorbed in the book and paying no attention to the visceral world around me. I had a profound influence on my thinking and understanding of spirituality. I think it may be time to read it again...
A really amazing book.
I am one to be subject to the more hocus pocusy sorts of things, but this book takes a very open mindedly scientific approach.
Many of the more unexplainable, or seemingly inconsistent, things in my life have finally been set to order for me and has now put me on my way to seeking out testing this new theory on spirituality presented in the book.
I get sort of annoyed with myself while explaining this because continually referring back to "that book" feels cultish to me, hence the hope to get beyond using that as reference.Either way, if you're looking for something that will make sense to get at spiritual questions that have been nagging you, I would highly recommend giving this book a shot.
As the consummate skeptic, I still have a hard time with reincarnation. No question, it answers so many questions and fills in the blanks of so many inequities and theodicies so visible in life. If your cosmology is in a state of flux, try this on for size. It certainly isn't the whole story, but it helps.
Anything about Edgar Cayce is good for the soul. I liked this book in particular because it is about reincarnation and how it fits into Christianity.
An interesting book with Edgar Cayce's (an American fortune teller lived during 19th century) case studies on reincarnation, lost city of Atlantis and many more.
This was a well-researched, well-written book about Edgar Cayce's beliefs about karma and reincarnation, cases of healings through past life prognoses, and fantastic prophesies as a clairvoyant.
These are topics that I'm very familiar with in my own background as well as my work as a soulistic life coach (www.NestInTheForest.com), however I only give the book 4 stars because of a couple of nags:1.
I recommend the book to anyone who's interested in learning more about Edgar Cayce, and a deeper dive into past lives, karma and reincarnation.If you've enjoyed this review, consider joining my Old Souls Book Club (https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/...) for more recommendations and lively conversations about such topics!
I knew that Edgar Cayce was considered one of the best psychics of his time, but what I learned by reading this book is that he also gave people readings about past lives. Cayce, himself, was raised a Christian, so it took him quite a while before he believed in reincarnation. It read more like a text book at times, but it was very interesting. It seemed as though every time I came up with a question about the subject, within the next chapter or so, my question would be addressed and answered. Very interesting read.
I have read about Edgar Cayce over the years, but this book delves into areas i didn't know much abo
This book broadened my perspective on past lives. I have always believed in reincarnation but this book gets in deeper and really puts it into perspective. I definetly recommend this book. I also recommend the book Soul Mates book by Kevin J Todeschi. Its written off Edgar Cayce's work whom I consider brilliant.
This book is about Edgar Cayce and his readings on reincarnation. I first read this book more than 35 years ago. Here is a simple man who had extraordinary abilities. The topics addressed in this book are relevant today and provide alternate viewpoints on issues affecting society. Very, very interesting.
The book discusses reincarnation, based on the many case readinds of Edgar Cayce, and its impplications to philosophy and religious beliefs. Why are we here? Why do we have the circumstances of life that we have or why do we have the kind of illness or personality that we have? It talks about karma as being redistributive justice or continuing process towards perfection.
Definitely fascinating. This is a fact based "research" type of book, so it's a little dry and detailed. Not a fast paced ready by an means, but there's no denying Edgar Cayce was a phenomenon.
This book is amazing! All I have to say is...I need a life reading...I wonder if Edgar Cayce has reincarnated yet..,
Very interesting book unlike the other book of edgar cayce I read are not so much irrelevant.
It is documentation on channelled readings on reincarnation and karma. A very interesting read with lots of food for thought.
very interesting theory....really enjoy this book and often return to it
Dated...very, very dated...but fascinating.
I first read it in middle and it still has many recurrent themes, particularly the chapter on isolation and past emotional states and previous lives.
This book is a treasure for believers of reincarnation.
AWESOME
Raised a Hindu, I have very early on accepted and deeply believe in reincarnation. To be provided validation for the same, was cherry on the cake. I often wondered about nature of Karma; why is it unfair and how it really works. This book gave me the answers. It helped erase lot of ambiguity and fear fed to me by religion. I'm grateful to have found this book at this point in my life.
Very interesting at the beginning, after some 20% of its contents the book becomes monotonous an, quite frankly, boring with hundreds of cases that you eventually lose track of... Pity as I had quite high hopes for that one... Will have to find a new one...
Fascinating!
Detailed, explanatory of karma and the necessity of one's attitude and behavior towards the world.
I think all humans have a unique opportunity, at least in their individual existing lives to create the kind of person they'd like to be or they'd like to become...I also wonder if life is about learning to explore, discover, and embrace our unique human freedom to be who we are.
I'd like to know that life has purpose, but wonder at the safety of such certainty of "I have a purpose." Sartre's philosophical maxim seems to apply: "damned to be free" There is responsibility embedded in this kind of freedom.
" 'Tat twam asi' (Thou art that) is a Hindu aphorism of profound and various applications; one of its more immediate meanings is that in looking on all varieties of human accomplishment we are looking upon externalizations merely of the potencies of our own soul..."Patterns author noted in Cayce readings: "takes the existence of a Creative Power, or God as it's starting point" "God exists.Every soul is a portion of God.
(Karma; reincarnation)Love fulfills that law.The will of man creates his destiny.The mind of man has formative power.The answer to all problems is within the Self." The author does go into detail of the above.
