https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31287352-in-farleigh-field
Many hard lessons are learned.Of all the characters, Ben and Pamela were my favorites.
Ben was the "nice guy" that is friend-zoned.
Ben is relegated to the role of dutiful friend.It would be easy to hate Pamela in many ways.
Each working in secret, Pamela and Ben try to get to the bottom of the mysterious soldier's identity and why he was found where he was.
Instead, they served only to confirm what I already knew.Unfortunately, I never felt a strong connection to any of the characters.
I really liked Ben and Pamela, but my feelings never went beyond "like".
1. Predictability - Whether it be the story or the characters did this feel like everything was following a guidebook on how to write a book for dummies.
Sorry, I kept on going through the book because I wanted answers to the dead parachute mystery.
When she did something quite unforgiving towards the end was, I not at all surprised since I've been waiting for it since the beginning of the book.3.
Well, I was almost half-way through when it really started to bother me and I did want to get some answers to the mystery in the book.
Farleigh Place is currently being used by British armed forces for its’ headquarters during WW II.
Roderick Sutton, The Earl of Westerham, owns Farleigh Place and lives their with his wife and five daughters.
There is great speculation and concern that the body could be a German spy.
Pamela Sutton, Ben Cresswell and Jeremy Prescott have been lifelong friends growing up together in Farleigh Field.
Pamela Sutton, one of the daughters of Roderick Sutton, decodes German messages at Bletchley Park in London.
Pamela has been in love with Jeremy since their teen years and hopes they marry after the war.
This isn't serious historical fiction, but it's a jolly good mystery. A possible German spy falls to his death on the grounds of Farleigh when his parachute fails to open. There are several investigations into the man's possible purpose, from a family friend who works for MI5 to a pair of twelve year olds who found the body. But as with good historical fiction, I found I learned several things about England during WWII, including the existence of the New British Broadcasting Corporation. This would make a great summer read. Light, but thoroughly entertaining.
The central plot of the novel involves the ancestral home of Lord Westerham, Farleigh Place, which is serving as headquarters for one of the British armed forces groups.
Lord Westerham has five daughters, three of whom play large roles in the story, Pamela, Margot and Phoebe.
Pamela works at Bletchly Park breaking German codes, Margot is in Paris working for the French Resistance, and Phoebe is at home (she’s only 12) and discovers the body of a soldier whose parachute failed as he tried to land near Farleigh Place.
Very enjoyable, undemanding book to read, perfect for lying in bed with a virus. Entertaining mix of English aristocracy and WW II spy games. Not a great book, but a fun one, and just what I needed. Recommended.
This was a good story! If one more person said cricky though. ;) I had a hard time getting into it at first but i felt it picked up so i kept going I ended up liking it more than it thought i would
All of my reviews can be found on www.novelgossip.comI’m beginning to realize that I’m a bigger fan of historical fiction than I first thought, there’s something about the way it sweeps me away to a different time that really appeals to me and I truly enjoyed being whisked away to 1940’s England while reading In Farleigh Field.
Thankfully I didn’t have any problems keeping everyone straight and I loved reading from several viewpoints.
There were a few surprises along the way though I worked out a couple on my own, but this didn’t take away from my experience, it was still an entertaining read.
Lock away anything that might help the enemy if we are invaded.Farleigh Place is the ancestral home to Lord Westerham, his wife and his 5 daughters, 3 of which are in the focus of the novel's story.
When German soldiers come for her, she fears the worst, because she has secrets of her own too.It seems Ben's investigation leads to many more questions than answers, but with Pamela's help, he discovers a horrible assassination attempt, one that may turn the tide of the war in Germany's favor, but can he discover who the traitor is before the task is carried out?I love historical fiction, especially when they are set in the time period of World War 2, so I was pretty excited to see this as an offering for my Kindle First selection for February.
Even the writing is just blah.Set in early WWII Britain on an estate house just outside of London, you would think this book would be anything but boring.
It is as if every cliché of England during WWII was added to the book just in case you forgot what was really going on.
The book has a list of characters in the beginning, laying out the who’s who of our cast, and included in that are characterizations like, “youngest daughter of Lord X, a bit precocious and notices too much for her own good”.
It most definitely is not, because there are certain historical truths that are part of the national landscape, so they do tend to pop up quite often.I enjoyed this often serious, sometimes clever—in the sense of being witty—novel that moved along at a steady clip with period of intensity and respites when the characters are permitted to take a break and think about themselves, each other, and whether they are managing to follow those all-important Seven Rules of wartime behavior.
This is the first stand alone Rhys Bowen story I have read outside of her wonderful series, Her Royal Spyness. I enjoyed the historical fiction in this cloak and dagger mystery, but missed the humor and witty banter of her series.
From dank living conditions to missions they cannot share with even their closest relatives, the story gives a close up view of what it might have been like to serve in lowly but classified positions during the war, as well as live in and operate out of a top-secret facility such as Bletchley Park.For Pamela, living a Bletchley Park is certain different from her upbringing at Farleigh.
Since Pamela nor Ben can share what they are doing with their families, there is an added layer of intrigue as well as a few mishaps and a bit of humor when they must explain away things that seem odd to those around them.While there is a rather large cast of characters, I never felt like it was hard to keep track of everyone.
I wanted to like this more than I did.....while I loved the premise (WWII code-breakers, spies, and aristocrats!) I felt like it came together too simplistically at the end. Still, it was an engaging read, but more of a "beach read" then powerful historical novel.
It seemed unfinished, like the last couple of chapters are an afterthought the author threw together just to be done with the book.
3.5* This was an easy light read, quite entertaining, but nothing of historical interest. The plot was a bit far fetched and I felt the ending was rushed.
There is absolutely nothing wrong when such a thing happens, though, especially when I come to have a lot of fun with the book.Most World War Two books I have read in the past have been of the high-octane, endless action variety.
Whilst In Farleigh Field takes a number of aspects from such books – spies, double agents, questionable characters, and mystery, to name a few – it doesn’t feel like many of the other historical fiction books I have read in this time period.
A very enjoyable historical novel set in WWII around the time of the Blitz. There are Army billeted in a large house, an aristocratic family of five daughters, a vicar's son, RAF pilots, Gestapo, etc. The story is very solid, but - like other reviewers - I did find it predictable. I usually never guess the culprit - but I did in this case. It was a lot of fun and a nice cozy way to spend a Saturday afternoon.
A highly enjoyable historical mystery taking place in England during WWII. The war is bringing rapid change to Lord Westerham and his family living in their ancestral home of Farleigh Place an hour outside of London. The fear of German spies infiltrating their small community is ever present and when a soldier falls to his death on Farleigh Field during a failed parachute jump, questions begin as to the soldiers true intent.
With the Enemy right in sight,And with thighs clutched together tight,Nancy "Pammy" DrewEnds WW2Then teas with Churchill, all is right.
Another great read from Rhys Bowen.A great adventure back in time with characters you'll love. No wonder this book has been nominated for so many a wards.
I will probably pick this up again at some point and read the rest of the book, because I like several of the secondary characters and Ben, but Pamela and Jeremy left me cold.
If Bowen makes a series out of this premise I would definitely give it a look, but would hope for a bit more humor (like her other series) or more of an in-depth look into her characters; I felt like everyone but Ben was very stiff upper-lip and one-dimensional.
3.8 Stars...a pleasantly predictable story of England's aristocracy during WW II.
I received this as a Goodreads giveaway.
I'm a fan of Rhys Bowen's mystery series but this takes her writing to a whole new level. I loved everything about this book, and I hope she is planning to write a sequel (soon!)
And youngest daughter Phoebe stumbles upon the body of a soldier whose parachute failed.Meanwhile Ben, the son of the local vicar, is working for MI5 and the neighbours' son, Jeremy, has been captured by the Germans.At the heart of it, this story is all about solving the mystery of the dead soldier.
Ben and Pamela are on a race against the clock to foil a plot that may change the course of history.I had an inkling relatively early on who the "baddie" was going to be so in that respect, it was a bit too predictable.
This book was an enjoyable read with great character and a storyline that interested me to the end. I found the over all plot slightly predictable but there was a few twist and turns that made up for that. A sound enjoyable read that had enough depth to keep me reading, 4 Stars!
One of the best books I’ve read in awhile! Enjoy!! Xx
One daughter works as a code detector.
The son of the neighboring land owner is a daredevil and was shot down over Germany and prisoner of war.
One morning an evacuated child finds a body of a parachute man on the grounds of Farleigh.
He is soon joined by the youngest daughter.
The authorities begin a search for why a German spy would be sent to the area.
So is the Germany spy?
Why Farleigh?
I recommend this book.I received a free copy from Berkley Publishing through NetGalley for an honest review.
I would like to thank for this opportunity to read and review the book.
Bastante predecible, y sobre todo la tramas se sienten incompletas y apresuradas, la historia de amor no encaja bien, el misterio se resuelve de manera apresurada y deja algunos cabos sueltos. Entretenido pero nada mas
