https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352262.How_to_Train_Your_Dragon
She did fall asleep a couple of times but to be fair she was recoving from a general anaesthetic.The book is very different to the film.
In the film the young Vikings are trained (in a mixed class) to battle dragons.
In the book the young Vikings (boys only) own and train dragons.Actually I lie.
Hiccup is very similar in character.
Also as in the film there is a hostile uber-dragon (two in fact) that is truly gargantuan.
The book is good fun but a touch too silly for there to be any real emotional connection with the characters - always a minus for me.
This book is mainly aimed at nine-and-up-year-old boys, but I bought it for me, and I ended up reading it to my little sister, who enjoyed listening to it and surprisingly was able to overlook the fact that it was nothing at all like the movie she loved.
There is some character development in the last few books, when the story starts to get darker and Hiccup grows older, but in the end I like him the way he is.
As we all know, movies often aren't much like the books they're based on, and that's incredibly true here.
The actual story is definitely tailored to a little boy audience, with gross jokes, battles and such.
I just didn't really feel that much sympathy with the Vikings when the HUGE dragon arrives with plans to eat them, yanno?Also, just fyi, there was not a single female character in this story that I noticed.
Unless you're a huge David Tennant fan (why wouldn't you be?) or totally okay with the absence of women and treatment of the dragons, you'll probably want to skip this one.
How do I rate this book? I rate it "Started reading it to my six year old but when he was too tired to continue I kept reading to myself and didn't put it down until I reached the last page."
hrrap tittaak puppa diddamdam rokkum review buat yang gak ngerti bahasa nagabuku pertama dari petualangan seorang anak ceking bernama hiccup; putra seorang stoick agung, kepala suku viking hooligan berbulu.
ujian pertama yang dipimpin gober the belch adalah anak2 ini wajib masuk ke gua naga dan menangkap seekor anak naga untuk dipelihara.
naga ini gak cuman kecil tapi kelakuannya bener menyebalkan dan nyusahin aja.
ada adegan yang bikin gw guling2 yaitu ketika gober dan 400 orang viking dengan sotoynya berusaha mengusir naga2 raksasa tsb (gagal total tentu saja) dan pada akhirnya anak2 ini bersatu untuk "mengadu domba" kedua naga raksasa tersebut dengan "rencana busuk yang cerdas." hahahaha.
Edit: 2nd reading *** The book is good, but the audio book just opened the characters up for me. It made the book more dynamic and the characters seem more fun. I was more enthusiastic this time. I will be seeking out more books read by Tennant, whom seems to come up with an endless amount of voices and energy to back them. ************I now have the audio book to go with this one. So far I’m thinking this will change my rating. It adds a lot to it.
I wanted to read this book because I HAD A DRAGON SHAPED HOLE IN MY READING LIFE.
Nope, in the book Hiccup and the boys of his village must capture a dragon and train it in order to be initiated as warriors.
Hiccup captures a very tiny insignificant looking dragon who has no teeth so he calls it Toothless.
There's snot jokes and everyone's names are ridiculous and Hiccup is just a little self-deprecating.I ADORED the illustrations!
I loved the book on training dragons too, with it's helpful instructions which are, in entirety: yell at it.
TOOTHLESS AND HICCUP WERE ADORABLE.
[First read: 3rd June, 2011. Three stars. Second read: 8th April, 2017. One star.]Apparently I read this in 2011 and gave it three stars. I do remember that I had read it, but had no recollection of it at all. Six years is a long time...I will first of all say disregard the film altogether with this book. It is  nothing  like it, they may as well have just paid Cowell for the title and character names, which they seemingly did. However, the film did not hinder my enjoyment-or lack thereof-of thi
Six years is a long time...I will first of all say disregard the film altogether with this book.
I'm glad Cressida had the decency to note at the beginning of the book that this has no relation to real-life history because it really doesn't.
It was a little difficult to assimilate this at first, as every little thing we think we know about Vikings but is wrong is right here in this book.
I don't recall any of the things I enjoyed on my first read-through all those years ago, so can't even think of any positives.
BEHOLD MY FIENDISH YELL OF APPROVAL™!
The Good:Such a fun children's book. Great setting, great ideas about dragons, and it's often funny and quite rugged.The Bad:Your kids might hate how different it is to the animated movies. Plus it is a children's book, so adults aren't likely to find it very deep.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Just like Ross, Hiccup Horrendous Haddock III is a smart but reluctant protagonist, and his pet uses him without pity.
I came across this lovely audiobook narrated by David Tennant, and knew that was just the thing I needed to listen to!
I love the movie.....but the book is so much better!Hiccup Horrendous Haddock III is the son of a chief.
The other boys have given him some great nicknames like "Useless''....so anyone can understand why he is a bit afraid of failing and being exiled.
But, it's the smallest dragon anyone has ever seen.....and it won't listen to him.
And, listening to David Tennant do all the voices is such a hoot!!
I had a great time listening and rooting for Hiccup & Toothless!
"How to train your dragon" je jedna sasvim OK knjižica koja će na momente nasmejati svoje čitaoce. Verovatno sam prestar za nju i verovatno je animirana verzija ostavila na mene mnogo veći utisak, tako da ne mogu da dam više od tri zvezdice.
David Tennant reads the audiobook. Need I say more?
Listened to the audiobook with my grandson. I thought it was really cute and he enjoyed it. It was a great opportunity to explain how movies can be very different from the books.
Read this one with my sons - the eldest loved it (and immediately went to find the second in the series at the local library). The humour in this book is outstanding, love the creation of the world of Berk, and the way the author brings to life this hostile, alarming terrain. The characters are hilarious, their names alone had my boys laughing - and the illustrations perfectly complement the plot. Definitely a great read for kids aged from 7 upwards.
this, amongst other things, is why I don't like audiobooks too much.The story is that of a Viking boy named Hiccup and how he became master of a dragon named Toothless.
The story is VERY funny and David Tennant is a master at making different sounds and voices and breathing life into this audiobook.
Anyway, he's done such a great job that I will listen to the 2nd book soon (no matter how many times I have to backtrack).Now I know there are a lot here who, like me, know the movie but not the book.
মুভিটা বেশি ভাল। এটাও সুনদর কিনতু সিনেমার কাহিনী বেশি ভাল লেগেছে। সেখানে ডরাগনরা কথা বলতে পারেনা, বইয়ের টুথলেসের এত টযানটরাম! বাবারে বাবা! মাঝখানে মনে হচছিল, ভিকষা চাইনা, কুততা সামলা! দরকার নাই আমার ডরাগনের! কিনতু ছোটদের জনয দারুণ একটা বই নিঃসনদেহে। মূল বইয়ে সমভবত ছবি আছে, আমি ইপাব পড়েছি- সেটায় ছিল না। এই কষট কই রাখি!
মুভিটা বেশি ভাল। এটাও সুন্দর কিন্তু সিনেমার কাহিনী বেশি ভাল লেগেছে। সেখানে ড্রাগনরা কথা বলতে পারেনা, বইয়ের টুথলেসের এত ট্যান্ট্রাম! বাবারে বাবা! মাঝখানে মনে হচ্ছিল, ভিক্ষা চাইনা, কুত্তা সামলা! দরকার নাই আমার ড্রাগনের! কিন্তু ছোটদের জন্য দারুণ একটা বই নিঃসন্দেহে। মূল বইয়ে সম্ভবত ছবি আছে, আমি ইপাব পড়েছি- সেটায় ছিল না। এই কষ্ট কই রাখি!
3,3/5Very funny and cute 😌 A delight
cuuuuuuuute ^ ^well, it was a cute and refreshing book after all, i wasn't quite sure it would be suitable for my age, but it went right through my heart.
This is a kids series and it's the story of Hiccup and his dragon Toothless.
In this story (the first) we follow Hiccup and his other friends as they have to first find their Dragons and then train them...I actually audio-booked this and I would thoroughly recommend the audio-book as a great way to read this (although I've also read some of these books aloud with my younger brother).
I will say that Toothless is my favourite character because of his snark and sass, but he's how a Dragon should be and I like the pairing.
Still the main character that we all know is Hiccup Horrendous Haddock III and he is much younger here than you expect him to be.
In the movie the vikings went out to hunt down the dragons, but here they actually try to tame their dragons which is unique.
Of course Hiccup's path crosses with that of the dragon Toothless who you don't even recognize.
LOOK AT HOW TINY HE ISSure this book is written for a younger audience, but they are also very enjoyable for people of an older age who like dragons.
Full (mini) review now posted!I’ve loved the movie inspired by this book for years.
So when I saw the audiobook was narrated by David Tennant, my favorite Doctor from Doctor Who and the fabulous new voice of Scrooge McDuck, I took the plunge.This was a fun story, made even more entertaining through the incredibly Scottish narration of Tennant.
I enjoyed Hiccup as a protagonist just as much in the book as I did in the movie.
And once you read it with your kids, definitely watch the movie, as I still consider it just a bit superior.
I enjoyed seeing the similarities between the movie and book of how Hiccup wins the respect of, at least most of, the other trainees for his brains and skills with dragons when the island is faced with the threat of the Green and Purple Deaths, giant sea dragons.
*worries that I opened a whole can of worms with that statement*) Toothless is startlingly different than his movie counterpart, but I actually grew to love the little stinker by the end of the book.
I mean, come on, the story’s MEANT for kids, (although that shouldn’t stop older fans from loving and enjoying either the books or movies).
5 estrellas porque la narración (?)de David Tennant es increíbleeeee! No había disfrutado tanto un audiolibro, es gracioso y le da vida a los personajes! :')David Tennant is the best narrator ever!!!!!!!!!!
Posle para depresivnih i teskih romana pravo zadovoljstvo je procitati nesto "lako" i nevino:)Knjiga ka knjiga nije losa i kada se uzme da je za mladje narastaje sasvim dovoljno je kvalitetna ali nista posebno ne iskace. Prica je interesantna, likovi su dosta jednostavni a i zmajevi su fino opisani... par njih iz ctave gomile.Iskreno receno ovo je jedan od redjih slucajeva di je film, ai sama serija, dosta bolja od knjige na koju se bazira.Slobodno procitajte ako ste voleli film ali ne ocekujte istu magiju.
Normally the books are much better than the movies. That was not the case with this book. The movie is waaay better and after watching it, this book was a bit of a disappointment.
Like many people, I got around to reading this after seeing (and becoming smitten/obsessed with) the Dreamworks movie version.
Naturally, I'm not inclined to adopt the book as devotedly as those who read it before seeing the movie and scorn the film as the scourge of the earth.I find that whenever I watch a movie before reading a book- like, say, Stardust- I enjoy them both equally.
Okay, this is going up another star just for the audiobook.
I love Hiccup Horrendous Haddock III with all of my heart, okay?
But he actually has a better relationship with his dad than I remembered?
Like, obviously, there's the whole exile thing, but Stoick regrets it immediately, and he actually really cares for Hiccup and you can tell right off the bat.
I'm just really emotional over their relationship okay.I adored being able to revisit where these characters started, now knowing where they end up.
I can't wait to continue on.3 stars from my first time reading it, 4 stars for the audiobook.
The book is a different beast that is markedly different from the movie plot.
The only reason I remove stars for this book is the lack of females with spine associated only with the movie.
The book features a lot of hand-drawn illustrations that are often funny.
The illustrations break up the text on most pages which I'm sure would be a benefit for reluctant readers or children who find lots of text daunting.
Narrated by David Tennant!
He's the perfect reader for this tale.
May have to listen to some more Hiccup and Toothless adventures because Tennant made the story better, for me.
This was a cute little children's book. But, reader beware, it was nothing like the movie. Hiccup, his dad and Toothless, were all very different in this book. However, it was still a fun little story in its own right. Because the plot was different, it was all new to me. I knew it would end with a big red bow because it is a children's book, but I had no idea how the characters were going to get there. So 4 stars.
