https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119250.The_Great_Brain_Reforms
All I can say is, I remember the moment when the Great Brain decides he's going to stop his manipulating ways and he tells his friend he feels "different, somehow...clean and warm and Christmasy." I've found myself quoting that quite a few times in my life and usually forgetting from whence it came.
The Great Brain Reforms by John D.
Fitzgerald is about a family of boys that like to make money especially Tom. Tom was the oldest and had a very talented brain.
One day he decided to make a raft for the river across the street.
The raft took tom a wile to built but he built it.
Then toms great brain thought it was a good idea if he charged kids to go on the raft.
One of the kids tom was taking down the river fell of in the rapids.
This is a good action adventure story and is hard to put down.
The Great Brain series is one of the greatest of all time.
Every day Tom has a new scheme to help his great brain take care of his money loving heart.
In this book, Tom makes a bet with his brother Sweyn that he can catch a bigger fish on their fishing trip, even though Sweyn has a better fishing pole.
Tom never bets unless it’s a sure thing, so of course he uses his great brain to catch a big fish with an old pole.
I absolutely love The Great Brain series.
We enjoyed another excellent book in the Great Brain series! The kids get a kick out of Tom’s wit and confidence.
i liked it
I would love this series reading it by myself, but reading them to my kids makes it that much greater.
My faviorte
I don’t like that kid.
It was great
Good readThe Great brain is better than everyone else at every thing so he uses that to his advantage Good Book
These stories are both entertaining and instructive - I am glad my children read them.
Adik angkat mereka, Frankie, sampai kebingungan atas polah Tom yang berhasil membuatnya ragu, mana yang benar, mana yang salah?Tentu saja bukan hanya J.D. yang menjadi korban Tom. Teman-teman mereka sudah pasti kena jatah juga.
Sedihnya, Tom ga dapat ganjaran apa pun dari hal itu hingga Tom bertekad tidak akan pernah lagi menyelamatkan mereka wkwk.
Dan betapa paniknya mereka karena Frankie sampai malam tidak pulang-pulang T_T.Itu belum seberapa, Tom nyaris menghilangkan nyawa dua orang temannya di sungai yang sedang banjir T_T (tapi dia juga yang menyelamatkan mereka).Di akhir buku, J.D. menyelenggarakan sidang yang dihadiri empat puluhan anak.
There’s lots of good fun in The Great Brain Reforms, and lots of that bittersweet/aggravated feeling when J.D. continuously falls for his brother’s shenanigans, or Tom sweettalks his way out of trouble.
But, as the title promises, there’s also moments where Tom realizes that he’s taken things too far.The Great Brain has had times in previous books where his schemes have failed him.
Tom at last comes face-to-face with the results of his own greed, and it’s satisfying even as the reader feels slightly sorry for Tom. I’d say this is one of the best Great Brain books in terms of displaying consequences, and also in terms of showcasing the difference between when Tom helps people and when he’s just being greedy.
The author tells you this because he liked to get money to buy stuff.
Sweyn and Tom just got back from the academy and it was summer vacation for all of them.
If he tries hard enough, then he can even swindle every adult in town out of how ever much money he wanted.
Tom could do anything if he thought about it and he refused to let his brain rest until he figured out a way to do what he wanted to do.
If all of the sheriffs in town gave up on a crime Tom solved it only because he thought there was a reward.
When adopted brother Frankie Pennyworth showed up, he added a new perspective of doubt -- Frankie didn't just fall for Tom's tricks and he suspected that Tom was cheating J.D. In this fifth book of the series, J.D. himself realizes that the Great Brain is not the hero he had thought he was.
At the end of the book, Tom is contrite.Austin was thrilled by the adventures in this book and has a more nuanced view of the Great Brain because of J.D.'s awakening.
One complaint I have with THIS book in the series is that the Great Brain (Tom) comes across as even more merciless than usual.
One thing that pushed it too far was when he wants to charge friends to play with the basketball and hoop he conned from his brother JD.
That was extreme even for Tom. However, the thing that redeems this book is the fact there is a point the author is building to - the Trial of the Great Brain.
Great book!
When the Jesuit Priests at the Salt Lake Academy can't reform Tom's swindling ways, Papa and Mama give it a try.
Finally, younger brother John D.
And what a great job he does, assisted by the 14 year old judge; he is pronounced guilty on all counts despite his cunning self-representation in "court." That "judge" is just too smart, having a trial lawyer for a dad.
All the kids Tom has swindled get their stuff back, but in the end John D.
knows that Tom cannot be reformed.
Great read-aloud to 4th through 6th grades.
We just finished this for homeschool, and the series is still a hit, but Mom is swamped and I don't have time for the chapter breakouts. sorry. maybe next time through.A great book for boys! After being introduced to The Great Brain by a teacher reading it in class, I read this entire series a few times as a middle schooler. The stories are wonderfully funny.On caution: the family featured is Catholic. This does not play a large role in the plot or characters. However, parents should be prepared for questions if the child reading is not Catholic.
Our family is really enjoying this series and we are coming to know John and Tom Fitzgerald very well. Tom (a.k.a The Great Brain) is back home in Adenville, Utah after spending the school year at a Catholic school in Salt Lake. He jumps right back into life as a conniving, scheming terror. After he's threatened with losing the friendship of every boy in the community, will the Great Brain reform?
The fifth book of the series is more of the same, the conniving Tom, the great brain of the title, using his brain to make money by conning other kids. While it is more of the same the stories are fun for kids with plenty of action and humor. At the end of this one, as the title says, the Great Brain reforms. But with Christmas approaching, we are left wondering if he really reformed or if it was a ruse to get a good Christmas.
These are children's/teen books, describing the antics and shenanigans of a group of brothers growing up in Utah in the 1800s. Although that may not seem very interesting, these are probably the best written and most entertaining books of the children/teen adventure genre. I highly recommend all the Great Brain books.
One of my favorites. Almost the perfect book.The Great Brain is back from the Academy and up to his usual trouble...The Tin Can Swindle, The Tug of War, Tom Hooks a Fish Named Sweyn, Akali Flats, The Magnetic Stick, The Good Raft ExporerBut what happens when the kids of Adenville put Tom on trial for being a cheat & a swindler?Good stuff
This is a series that I read as a kid and loved them. I am reading them with my kids now. They are fun and based in a Mormon town. If you're looking for literary quality, you should check elsewhere; they are well-written, just not the highest of quality. The stories, however, are very fun!
Love the Great Brain...still read them now!
We've read nearly all the Great Brain books with the kids. Some are better than others, but they never disappoint.
Part of a great series of books
Bedtime stories for the boys
The great Brain is back with more power than ever almost gets two people killed and is put on trial.
Not as good as the Academy, but still, DANG hilARIOUS.
An exciting book and really entertaining like the others in the series. A must-read.
