https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/435095.The_Emperor_Jones
الإمبراطور جونزواحدة من أفضل المسرحيات التي عايشتها مأخوذة تماماً بأحداثهاوهي معزوفة أشباح رائعةتسرد
یه بحث سلیقهای وجود داره که شاید من نمایشنامههایی که از صحنههای کوتاه و پر شمار ساخته شده باشن رو نمیپسندم... حس میکنم یک صحنه میتونه حسی رو منتقل کنه که کوتاهیش باعث فاصلهگرفتن مخاطب (چه تماشاگر چه خواننده) با اثر میشه... این نمایشنامه هم همینطور بود از 7 صحنه تو 70 صفحه تشکیل شده بود که من نمیپسندیدم هر چند که نمایشنامه نمادین و فوقالعاده بود.
یه بحث سلیقه‌ای وجود داره که شاید من نمایشنامه‌هایی که از صحنه‌های کوتاه و پر شمار ساخته شده باشن رو نمی‌پسندم... حس می‌کنم یک صحنه می‌تونه حسی رو منتقل کنه که کوتاهی‌ش باعث فاصله‌گرفتن مخاطب (چه تماشاگر چه خواننده) با اثر می‌شه... این نمایش‌نامه هم همین‌طور بود از 7 صحنه تو 70 صفحه تشکیل شده بود که من نمی‌پسندیدم هر چند که نمایشنامه‌ نمادین و فوق‌العاده بود.
مسرحية صغيرة مكون من ثماني مشاهد قصيرة ولكنها غنية بمشاعرها وأحداثها، عنصر التجريب غالب على المسرحية مقارنة بزمنها وهي تفتح أبواب عديدة أمام من يرغب في تقديها على المسرح أن يجرب ويبدع.مشكلة المسرحية أنها تبدو وكأنها مونولوج طويل كان ينقصه الكورس الذي كان من الممكن أن يحل محل الأشباح الصامتة، المسرح عندي بالأساس حوار، حوار يدفع الأحداث ويعري الشخصيات. لذلك ورغم قوة المسرحية لم أعطها إلا نجمات ثلاث.المسرحية مترجمة للعربية في سلسلة من المسرح العالمي.
یک نمایش نامه ی حرکت محور و بازی محور با تکیه بر صدا.کاملا نمادین و به خصوص اشارات و کنایه های مستقیم به نژاد پرستی،استعمار و عدم درک سیاه پوستان از وضعیت واقعی خودشان.
O’Neill suggests power and self-control are facades. People are at the mercy of their physical needs and unconscious fears.
Quite fantastic.
What’s worse?Maybe having a “charade” of drums, ghosts, dancing witch doctors, cowering slaves, convulsive trembling and berserk hallucinations – all leading to your imminent death?
Simply, this play is about a man losing his mind in a forest.Anyway, Emperor Jones tells the story of an arrogant black emperor who defies the limits of his mortality.
He’s confident that, after mistreating and robbing his little empire of slaves, he can easily escape, unharmed.
The emperor foolishly tells Smithers about his plans, flaunting confidence that he is fearless and nothing will get him.
Smithers tells the emperor that his little empire is devising a coup that, hopefully, shall end with nothing but his demise.
I read this a long time ago. In college as a matter of fact. I still have a copy. It's an edition with other lesser known O'Neil plays. Come to think of it, this play (to the best of my recollection) might have been more than a little racist. Well, some other day I'll look further into all this then.
Uh wow so this is progressive racial views for the times? Gonna go with no.

تلك الفكرة استخدمت..من الرائع أنه قد تم استخدامها!,,حينما قرأت في المقدمة قول يوجين يونيل " أن الناس مشغولون ببحث العلاقة بين بعضهم البعض، غير أنني اعتقد أن مهمة الفنان هي أن يبحث هذه العلاقة بين الانسان والله..بين الانسان وبين كل ما هو أقوى منه.
يمكن تلخيص بالفعل فلسفة يوجين في المقطع أعلاه ووضح لي أكثر حينما انهيت قراءة المسرحية.فالامبراطور جونز الآن بعد أن بات وحيدًا في العراء تجرد من كل شيء، وحل الهلع في قلبه محل الثقة، وتبدلت أحواله من القوى الباطش إلي الخائف المرتاع بما وجهها من قوى أكبر مما في استطاعته..
The setting is an unknown island in the West Indies, where Brutus Jones, a black convict who fled the United States, has set himself up as an emperor with absolute power and luxury.A man named Henry Smithers appears to be 2nd in command, a sort of false friend to the emperor, and he is the first to learn that all of the slaves have slipped away into the woods.
We learn that Smithers is the only white man on the island, and while he sneeringly sees this as an advantage, the emperor and everyone else see him as an outsider and a minority.When the slaves begin a war dance and begin marching toward the palace, the emperor decides to do what is hinted as his specialty - run.
O'Neill's Jones works on different levels, as a reality / fantasy mock up and then as a metaphor for race relations and human survival instinct. Or I'm just messed up. Brutus Jones, kills a man, goes to prison, escapes to a Caribbean island, and sets himself up as an autocratic tyrant (shades of Prospero in Tempest?). The play follows Jones as he attempt to escape former subjects who have rebelled against him, irony or juxtaposition? I liked it, made me think.
My first O'Neill play, not his best by far. We read this in high school some 40-something years ago and I can still remember it. It was so startling to me that I can still picture the classroom, my desk and having to read from it out loud. Uncomfortable to say the least but memorable so 4 stars for that.
This play is thoroughly racist. The depiction of the main character, the progression of the plot, and the main themes all point to reprehensible ideas. Depressing and vapid, the play offers little for audiences or readers to enjoy or engage with.
I might have just accepted it as a Coen brothers-esque drama about a not too bright, African American criminal if it weren't for the last line of the play.
The character who speaks out the line is called Smithers, a white, cockney reprobate who, even in his rude corruption stands as the voice of reason in this drama.
And when taken in context with the actions depicted by all the black characters in the play, it's pretty clear what the playwright thought of their culture and cognitive capabilities.
A former Pullman car porter who spent time in jail for murder sets himself up as Emporer on a Caribbean island. His people rebel and he must face his demons. Having had a rough ride on a few of O'Neill's other plays I expected to have a similarly poor experience. But this play I really enjoyed. The character starts very powerfully and we ride the long curve downward with him. Really enjoyed it.Recommend.
أول مرة أقرأ ل يوجين أونيل، بالعادة ما تستهويني المسرحيات تصيبني بالملل بس هذه المسرحية غييير مرة لأن الوصف يخليك تعيش كل شيء وكأنك مع جونز الزنجي الإمريكي الخائن اللي هرب من السجن لجزيرة وقدر يصير إمبراطور هناك وكيف كانت نهايته ب الغابة بعد معاناة مع الخوف والهلوسات وصوت الطبول . راح اختبر فيها بعد اسبوع wish me luck ❤.
أول مرة أقرأ ل يوجين أونيل، بالعادة ما تستهويني المسرحيات تصيبني بالملل بس هذه المسرحية غييير مرة لأن الوصف يخليك تعيش كل شيء وكأنك مع جونز الزنجي الإمريكي الخائن اللي هرب من السجن لجزيرة وقدر يصير إمبراطور هناك وكيف كانت نهايته ب الغابة بعد معاناة مع الخوف والهلوسات وصوت الطبول . راح اختبر فيها بعد اسبوع wish me luck ❤️.
Another literature read. It wasn't something I'd have chosen for myself. Very interesting but not great.
Besides the nonstop discomfort that comes from every line spoken by Brutus Jones, the plot is too metaphorical to be enjoyed, and never crawls out of the shadow of the heavy-handed message O'Neill wants to impart.
And in the end, when Lem, leader of the rebels chasing after Jones, is given lines, he sounds like a horrible patchwork of the worst of black and Indian stereotypes.The plot winds a strange path, as Jones slowly descends into madness, or history, or historical madness, as he faces the ghosts of his violent life and the terrible specter of the atrocities committed against his race.
Fun fact for the day.I think the more I read Eugene O'Neill, the more I realize how much he personally has to say about the relationship between people and how susceptible it is to change, such as in The Iceman Cometh and Desire Under the Elms.
I honestly feel like if that first scene dispersed its information over and entire separate act, it would've made the premise for what would occur in the jungle to be much more effect.
I just feel like I'm depriving myself by only reading this play, as with O'Neill's other plays.If you like Eugene O'Neill, you'll definitely like this play.
سفید پوست تاجری هم به نام سمیترز هست که با وجودی که برای جونز احترام قائل است و واسطه می شود تا با "لم" رهبر یاغیان جزیره صحبت کند اما نظرش نسبت به جونز مغشوش می شود.
جونز، در انتها با گلوله ای نقره ای کشته می شود.
یاغیان معتقدند تنها راه کشتن جونز همین گلوله ی نقره ای ست، وسیله ای که جونز هم برای خودکشی برگزیده است.
امپراطور جونز به فارسی ترجمه شده و به گمانم در ابتدای انقلاب در تهران به صحنه رفته است.
Don't we all save the final bullet for ourselves?
That being said, the play's stage directions are incredibly racist, ironically adding to the already obvious themes of slavery and black subjugation as seen in the slave market scene.
The play epitomizes the notion that we are the outcome of our actions, and indeed, the Emperor's malicious treatment of the natives comes back to literally haunt him.
The play is in a way a metaphor for Black America; blacks during the era of O'Neil continued to grapple with legacy of slavery and historical mistreatment as witnessed by the Emperor during his failed escape.
I have never read O'Neill before, so I didn't really know what to expect, but the play is tight, the progress makes good sense, and there isn't too much extraneous stuff going on.
The only thing that's a bit problematic (besides the racism) is the first scene, which takes its sweet time about fulfilling its purpose.
That scene could be cut down without much real lose to the play as a whole.
But on the other hand, the play is so short that a long opening isn't as problematic as it might be in a longer play.
Oh boy...an unfortunate relic from a different time, this profoundly racist play could have only been made more so if the performers were all drenched in blackface, playing the bones and wailing about their mammies.
Being a product of its era, it's understandable to cut the work some slack (even Shakespeare was guilty of this kind of crass appeasement), but its horrific, vaudevillean structure and atttiudes belie a playwright still struggling to find the right pitch.
Phonetically speaking, this solidifies O'Neill as the Oscar Hammerstein of the American Drama: brilliant, but painfully literal; even the titular characters name is a groan-gleaner (the cringe-worthy "Emperor Jones").
Yikes!
December of Drama 2015, day 26"Was I running backwards, or as it all just a dream?"--Slipping Away, by TanlinesSo, you know that moment where you're reading something and you think "this author's trying too hard?" Yeah, that. I'm giving it two stars simply for the ambition and the experimental structure-- the content is pretty atrocious. I'm not saying that merely for the racist language that others have probably objected to, but rather for the heavy-handed way it's all delivered. It's a head-shaker.
A strange play, which hints at the violence of colonialism and racism while also perpetuating native stereotypes. It's hard to imagine Paul Robeson as Jones, a conniving and shifty character, but when the work moves towards a more magical element it becomes something else. The Christmas Carol-like revisiting of memories chides Jones for his evil ways, while also showing him to be brave and proud. Apparently the play was praised by some in the "new Negro" movement--I forget who--who found it inspiring in its contrast with emasculated and servile depictions of black men.
When it comes to The Emperor Jones, I find myself on a fence. On one hand Eugene O'Neil gives a character who deals with his past, his latest choices and his crime in a sensory depraved environment. His hallucinations are his confrontations to what he has been avoiding. At places its an uncomfortable read with references to slaves, witch doctors(?) and ghosts.Story of a self made emperor / dictator who faces his fears in the end.
An overly confident emperor flees from his palace into the jungle because he fears a mutiny. In the deep forest he is haunted by apparitions from his past and accompanied by drum beats that ultimately drive him into madness...Dealing with imperialism, black/white power relationships O'Neill's play allows insights into the repentance of a character doomed to downfall.
While Emperor Jones has some great lines - it seems it takes a dramatic production to give it real life. The middle of the play is very expressionistic and the scenes in the jungle probably play better on the stage than in the reading - which isn't a bad thing necessarily - a well staged play is more than just the written word.
