https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12599.Selected_Stories_of_Eudora_Welty
Gostei muito da escrita, mas os contos não me disseram muito. Quero ler algo da autora que não contos.
The Merriam-Webster online dictionary says that the short story often concentrates on "creation of mood rather than plot." That is true of the stories of Eudora Welty.
A few feel a bit like literary geek shows, and some are so odd and inscrutable that they're a little off-putting, but overall this first collection is quite fine.The second, A Wide Net, contains stories that are much more ambitious, sometimes fairly complex and relatively lengthy.
The others are compelling, and "A Wide Net" is a highlight of the whole collection.All told, the book is a great resource to have for short story buffs-- though reading the whole thing cover to cover, as I did, is perhaps not the recommended approach.
I loved the short stories and loved reading one each night before going to sleep. Classic southern lit.
Just because he was the only man ever dropped down in China Grove and you got him - unfairly - is he going to sit down and write you a lengthy correspondence after you come home giving no rhyme nor reason for the presence of that child?
I may not have your brilliant mind, but I fail to see it.'So Mama says, 'Sister, I've told you a thousand times that Stella-Rondo simply got homesick, and this child is far too big to be hers,' and she says, 'Now, why don't you all just sit down and play Casino?'Then Shirley-T.
A wonderful collection - Welty's prose is gorgeous, her stories complex and sometimes difficult to follow, her gaze direct and unflinching - scarily so in some stories, which are dark and brooding, others light and yet also full of black humour. Shades of Flannery O'Conner weave through many of the lives depicted and I had to miss a few pages here and there because they were way too confronting and uncomfortable. I love the way she writes, the way she strings her sentences together, the words she uses, the amazing dialogue... but I always felt a little uneasy ...
This seemed to be hit or miss for me. The Key was my favorite piece. Her observations on the human condition were interesting to me, but the stories themselves seldom were; I felt no connection to most of them. As well, my personal opinion is that some of them were a bit over-written, and lacked the condensed power of a great short story.The lady was talented, to be sure, just not always my cup of tea.
Eudora Welty paints a picture of the characters and the room - putting you "right there" in the Old South. I hear her voice when I read her stories - as I was a big fan of her stories told on NPR.
rereading this after many years, what a joy to know what one good writer could do. Judging from the intro, this collection preceded any novels written by Welty.
Dreary and often slightly surreal. Great literature, for sure. But I did not enjoy her stories.
The storm had rolled away to faintness like a wagon crossing a bridge." p.40"People standing in the fields now and then, or on top of the haystacks, had been too far away, looking like leaning sticks or weeds, turning a little at the solitary rattle of his car across their countryside, watching the pale sobered winter dust where it chunked out behind like big winter squashes down the road." p.
303"It was in a bar, a quiet little hole in the wall.
So, over the years I have heard and read about her, how great she is and all that.I have to say, she really was a masterful short story writer, up there with whoever you want to put her with - she's got all the chops: deft characterization, dramatic sense, a great handle on story architecture, all the classic stuff.But, what I like about her is the authentic Southern Gothic goods she delivers: small-town and rural Mississippi life in the thirties and forties.
This is such a fantastic book that I'm going to read her novels next.
PETRIFIED MAN - Petrified Man comes from the book, Selected Stories of Eudora Welty.
For the purposes of this review, I will only discuss the short story (not the book in its entirety).
The author conveys the character’s voices so remarkably well.
That is, several women sitting in a beauty parlor, enduring the tortures of beauty treatments.
The title refers back to the Medusa myth and a man in a freak show, turned to stone.
Another highlight in this book is the short titled, Why I Live at the PO.
Surprisingly, A Worn Path isn’t included in this selection.
To be fair, this is a 3 1/2 star bok for me. Though when the collection falls flat, it falls hard-there are some stories that are just not good-it contains some of my very favorite Welty stories as well, such as "Petrified Man" and "Why I Live at the P.O." Fans of Southern Gothic literature will really appreciate this collection.
Read 5 short, very short, stories for a book discussion. Although I recognize Welty's talents as a writer, I just don't get the point of the stories. Perhaps there is none. I must admit that listening to the discussion made me think about the stories more.
I did not read all the short stories. I enjoyed her voice. I could visualize what she was saying, however some of the stories I finished thinking "now what was the point of that story?". Maybe there was no point, maybe it was just a snapshot of someone's life. I am not the one to say.
After a long break from reading short stories, I found myself immersed and addicted to Welty's idiosyncratic world. Got me thinking about my grandmother, Kayaco, who, although no southerner, is just as zesty as a Welty character.... You can read my full review at: www.the-reading-list.com
I didn't get much out of the stories leading up to it, but it was the author's racism (even if she thought she was being liberal) in Keela, the Outcast Indian Maiden that made me decide to stop reading this.
On my top 100 books list - The Wide Net is one of my favorite stories ever... ad I'm not sure why :)
I re-read some of these stories for a book group recently and was astonished at Welty's economy and grace. What a writer! And not read enough these days, I'm afraid.
I finally finished reading this collection of stories by iconic Southern author Welty, and all the promise of authentic dialogue and deft characterization is true.
My favorite is "Livvie."
