https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182496.Evergreen
I read this whole series back in the 80s and it made a big impression on me because of its description of the immigration process.
I also remember them toughing it out in New York under very hard and difficult conditions, making their own way financially.
I picked this up on kindle when it was on sale months ago, and hope to delve into it again to see if I like it as much as I did then.
This is one of my favorite books of all time.
It is a sweeping family saga full of characters you care about, and whom you will miss when you put this book back on the shelf.
A period novel rich in historical detail, reading it made me feel transported back a few decades and yet it never lost sight of the struggles and triumphs of the main characters; the historical details never overwhelmed them.
This book was my introduction to Belva Plain, and I went on to read the two sequels to Evergreen (also fabulous) as well as nearly all of her other books.
EVERGREEN is one such novel, and it belongs on a shelf with similar novels such as Colleen McCullough's THE THORN BIRDS and Rosamund Pilcher's THE SHELL SEEKERS, wonderfully entertaining family sagas spanning generations and often continents as well, peopled with colorful characters and chronicling the universal joys and sorrows of life.There are two scenes in EVERGREEN which are particularly well-written, with great emotional depth.
The other scene occurs late in the novel, when a much-older Anna has a brief reunion with the man she has always loved but couldn't marry (and who, of course, doesn't know about Anna's guilty secret).02/16/15: During the past three or four years I re-read both THE THORN BIRDS and THE SHELL SEEKERS and enjoyed them very much all over again.
Sometimes you're in the mood for a long trashy wallow, and this could deliver it.
Here you have nearly 700 pages of eye-straining small font about a Polish Jew, Anna, who comes to America not long after the turn of the 20th Century in the years before World War I.
She starts out living with her cousin on Hester street, and I imagine many might have seen the stories of their own grandmothers and great-grandmothers in Anna when this was published.
It's not so much the story or the character which didn't engage me, it was the style that put me off.
EVERGREENBelva PlainI'm not quite sure how I become obsessed with reviewing the "Golden Oldies"! But, I'm definitely hooked, so you can bear with me or ignore me.EVERGREEN is a modern classic saga of the courageous immigrants who faced gigantic odds and came to America. Anna Friedman transfixes us with her passion, determination and passion. She and her family survive war, tragedy, secrets and forbidden love, bittersweet and evergreen.A beautifully written book with a magnificent story that sweeps you away with the history, the finely etched characters and great romance.
Becoming restless with sewing, Anna found a job as a maid in the home of the Werner family.
"What luxury!"Anna met a nice young fella, Joseph Friedman, who she would sit on the stoop with and talk of the future.
Finding out that he was to be married to another, she quit her position with the Werner family.
Joseph Friedman was enhanced with Anna and asked him to marry.
She said "yes, Joseph, I will marry you."The life of Joseph and Anna Friedman was hard at first.
You must read this book to see how the Friedman's life evolved.
I started reading this book because I got the book "Complete Idiot's Guide The Ultimate Reading List".
It was the first book on the Popular fiction list.
I vaguely remembered seeing it before but it looked like my kind of book - big, juicy, multi-generational saga.It is.
Living in the poor Jewish section of New York, going to work as a maid in a wealthy household (attracting the attention of the son of the family), marrying a good, Jewish boy and living through the trials and tribulations of the twentieth century.
I understand there are three more books in the series about this family - I think I'll visit them again.
I remember sitting on a couch by the fire in a cabin up at Lake Tahoe reading this book, for I had been asked to come along with a family in order to baby-sit their children. It was a generational book that I picked up after reading “The Thorn Birds.” I loved it just as much, and that is all I recall, and I probably remember it because I also loved being in a cabin in the snow.
This is a beautiful story about family and generations of family, of loss of life and bringing new life to the world. It's romance, historical, literary, and all of the above, all wrapped up in this long book, which took me 2 1/2 days. A great read! I believe I saw the TV mini-series of this long time ago.
Remains a good read.
This 700 page saga started off great.
She marries Joseph and starts a family but had a definite thing for Paul.
She runs into him when she went to ask to borrow money from her old employer and basically they got it on and next thing she knows she's pregnant.
But the book goes on great lengths of other people who are sort of important but could have been edited down maybe to 400 pages instead.My eyes glazed over the last 100.
I liked most of the book so i stuck with it; enough to that I requested the second in the series from paperbackswap.
Belva Plain has been one of my favorite authors since my teenage years.
After reading this book again...I remembered why Belva Plain is one of my favorite authors.
The book follows her throughout her life.
Her love and family bond is the most important thing to her.
She falls in love with a rich man, and know it isn't going to be possible for them to be together, so she marries and has a family and LIFETIME with a man she knows will always take care of her, but she isn't 'in love' with.
One of my all-time favorite family sagas!!We follow Anna as young girl in Poland to the US and through her long life.
As time passes, you meet many different family members and get to live their experiences as well.
I didn't always agree with their choices, but I thoroughly enjoyed the journey!
Although this is a novel, it has some deep and insightful writing.
I've read this book several times, and each time I have loved it.
It's not a "literary" type book, but if you want to read a novel that will keep you wanting more, read this!
I selected this book based on the Goodreads recommendation as a Family Saga. Many things about this book are similar to The Thornbirds. I love sweeping stories that cover long periods of time, like ...And Ladies of the Club, Gone With the Wind, The Thornbirds, Roots, As the Crow Flies, and The House of the Spirits. While I definitely enjoyed this book, any of the aforementioned titles are more substantial and riveting reading along the same lines. Evergreen is easy to read, entertaining, but fairly forgettable.
Okay, so when I first started this book I thought it would be an epic about the courage and spirit that comes shining through as people face the hardships that life has to offer. As it turned out it is not all that deep and has a real soap opera feel to it. Yuck, disappointment abounds. Slam! (that was the book closing in frustration) No I am not finishing it. It is a waste of time and there are good things to read all around. So it is onward for me.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I stumbled upon this book as a teenager and stayed up many a nights to complete this book. It is one of those books that I come back to time & again. The characters are some that you end up caring about deeply ~ read this book - you will understand my stance!
Evergreen is one of my favorite books I have read. It was made into a movie a few years ago. I will pick it up and read it every once in awhile.
They meet in America where they fall in love and get married.
Her children grows up and as days go by life in the Friedman family improves financially.
So, when Maury falls in love with an American, the Friedman's do not approve of it.
Tragedy forces the Friedman's family together again if only but briefly.
Their strong views and hatred towards their sons choice in marriage is something they are unable to bear even during these very difficult times.
This is a book to read and to re-read for those who loves family sagas.
This is a lovely historical family saga. I'm giving three starts simply because the pace is too slow for me. I ended up skimming towards the end of the book.
A multi-generational saga beginning with Anna who comes to the States as a 17yr old from a Polish village to live in NY city with relatives.
She works for a while as a servant to a wealthy family before she marries Joseph Friedman, also from an immigrant family, and they begin their life together.
Joseph works hard in order to rise out of poverty to the lifestyle of the wealthy.
But at other times I was struck by the hard work in order to take advantage of opportunities.
It's one thing to write a book focused around one specific period of time.
I recall reading this book as a young teenager and I distinctly remember being captivated by it.
Fast forward a few years (ahem...decades) and I'm having a hard time seeing just what was so captivating about this story.
I'm usually a real sucker for multigenerational sagas and Evergreen has a great, if slightly overdone, premise (of course, this was written quite a while ago, so the story line might have been a bit fresher then).
It's a rags-to-riches story of young immigrants from war-torn eastern Europe who come to America.
In essence, I had two major problems with Evergreen that led me to abandon the book.
An amazing book that lets you relive your childhood and anticipate your old age. In shorts, it gives you a chance to live life once more. All characters are very distinct, profound and relatable many a times. The book shows the sufferings and strength of a very strong female protagonist, Anna, and her actions (certainly not as dramatic) are clearly at par with with the principal characters of A Doll's House and Antigone ( Jean Anouilh)
Just as good as I remember it. The first time I read this book I was 20 years old. Now at 36, I'm seeing it through more mature eyes, and I'm learning new things. Belva Plain is a master of the family saga, and this book is everything I want from this genre. I can't wait to continue reading the Werner Family Saga books.
Read this 25 or 30 years ago and have read it at least 3 times since. I love it and it is the book that got me hooked on Belva Plain. This book is exactly the kind of historical fiction that keeps me turning pages way past my bedtime.
Great read can't wait for book 2 :)
One of the best books I've read in quite some time. The story of an immigrant family's journey through the 20th century. Excellent!
couldn't put this one down. reminiscent of immigrants coming to the united states through ellis island.
I read this year's ago and enjoyed it. I learned a lot, too. Chick lit well done.
The author's intent with this novel is to give you the opportunity of hearing the story of "Evergreen" from the prospective of Paul Werner.In the subsequent novels, "Tapestry", "Harvest", and "Heartwood" the focus shifts to Anna and Joseph Friedman's daughter, Iris Stern and her relationship to the Werner family.As always, Belva Plain's novels transport you to a place and time which is rich in history and the drama of humanity.
As each new installment of the series was published, I read with delight as I once again entered the world of Anna, Paul, Joseph, Maurice, Iris and Theo.Belva Plain is a third generation Jewish-American who was reared in New York City.
