https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86643.Mistress_of_the_Art_of_Death
Being a feminist reader of historical fiction is to invite inner turmoil.
I hope you appreciate my presence in your book!"But, without those characters, I'd be even more annoyed (and depressed) by the frighteningly woman-unfriendly times, and probably stop reading historical fiction all together.Such was my struggle with this book.
On the other hand, she probably would have been burned as a witch if she had actually showed up in medieval England as an autopsy specialist.(Not to mention the whole notion of "independent female" is pretty harshly undercut when she and a token handsome young man fall in love - he even rescues her from mortal peril!
There's so much around and not all books are best quality....Like more readers here, as I understand it, I had trouble getting into this one, not an easy read, but once I got past that barrier, it was good and getting better and better...
An intelligent medieval murder mystery, solid historical background, Plantagenet period (Henry II), interesting.
Will certainly find the sequels to this series of Adelia Aguilar, Mistress of the Art of Death.Recommended for those who like historial fiction.
What the king gets is Adelia, his very own Mistress of the Art of Death...
You know what I have really missed in my life?
A Librarian.
Not a librarian, small l, but a Librarian - that mystical, magical woman who watches what you read, and what you check out again and again, and who one day says to you: "You know what?
I think you'd like THIS."I like THIS.
It's a lovely read, nicely done, and I look forward to other mysteries featuring Adelia and Rowley.
(I'm hoping for some stuff about the Black Plague: I love the Plague!
A medieval mystery in which Simon of Naples, a eunuch and a unique woman with the ability to decipher the wounds inflicted on bodies, race to discover the identity of a violent killer of children before he strikes again.From its opening lines, The Mistress of the Art of Death had me in its thrall.
But one of them, as exuberant as the rest, is a murderer of children." pg 1.I have been to Canterbury and viewed the spot where Thomas Becket was cut down by the knights of Henry II.
I loved going back there, if only in a story.The Mistress of the Art of Death herself, Adelia, is a brilliant and headstrong heroine.
And finish it off with the forensics of "CSI", and you'll have some appreciation for Ariana Franklin's remarkable achievement in "Mistress of the Art of Death", a fresh and inspired twist of historical fiction and crime thriller, a blockbuster of murder and mayhem told through lively, darkly humorous prose that is as educational as it is entertaining.The setting is 12th century England.
Notwithstanding some anachronisms - some noted and others ignored - Franklin delivers her tale with the historical authority of Edward Rutherford or Bernard Cornwell, while told in dialogue as engaging as Grisham, Forsythe, or Follett at the tops of their games.
Adelia and her companions-Simon, a Jew, and Mansur, a Moor-travel to England to unravel the mystery of the Cambridge murders, which turn out to be the work of a serial killer, most likely one who has been on Crusade with the king.
It's a lot more fun to read a book in a group of like-minded people, ones who read on multiple levels like our brethren and sistern here on this site.Adelia Vesuvia, our sleuth, is a forensic physician in a time when I didn't know such existed.
They don't, in contrast to many series mysteries, come across as convenient mouth-pieces for the author's needed plot developments.
I am a historical mystery geek, sometimes I'll go on a tear and read a whole series in a row, like the Peabody mysteries or Lindsay Davis' Rome mysteries, so I picked up this book after reading great reviews. I was not disappointed!Very interesting setting, mainly compelling because of the main character,a medieval woman doctor. Felt well researched, a serial killer thriller set long ago in a fascinating world. Leans a bit too much in the "womanly" direction sometimes (I felt the romance was a bit shoehorned in) but DEFINITELY will be downloading the next one to my Kindle.
Ζωντανές περιγραφές και έξυπνοι διάλογοι, που κάνουν την αφήγηση να ρέει σαν νεράκι.
Το βιβλίο μας εισάγει άμεσα και εύκολα στον μεσαιωνικό του κόσμο, χάρη στην έξυπνη αφήγηση της Ariana Franklin, η οποία δεν αραδιάζει στοιχεία για την εποχή λες και πρόκειται για μακροσκελή σχολική εργασία, αλλά η εισαγωγή μας γίνεται μέσα από την ίδια την πλοκή και τους ήρωες, επίσης φαίνεται ότι η μελέτη της γύρω από την μεσαιωνική Αγγλία ήταν προσεκτικότατη.
Λάτρεψα όλους τους ήρωες, είχαν έντονες προσωπικότητες και κεφάτη ιδιοσυγκρασία.
Κρίμα που η bell δεν προχωράει στην έκδοση και της υπόλοιπης σειράς.
In that respect, this book is a gem, although I do think there will be those readers who will think it's not really accurate because they haven't done enough real research about the "real" medieval times.I love the main character - she is a no-nonsense, outspoken, and educated intelligent woman who nevertheless understands all too well the obstacles women of her time had to face - and knows how and when to pick her battles.For those who believe this book is anachronistic and inauthentic, I'd like to add the following:It's more plausible than most people realize.
This novel is a gloriously delicious read.Set in the Middle Ages as a medieval mystery, our protagonist has been asked to travel to Cambridge (United Kingdom) from the Middle East, to research the mystery behind a group of local children who have been tortured to death and mutilated in a similar manner to one another.
If you like the sound of Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales with a splash of The Da Vinci Code then this book is for you.Besides being a cracker of a crime thriller, Mistress of the Art of Death is an intensely satisfying historical read too.
F, is for Franklin 3 StarsOkay, let’s get the trash out of the way first, shall we?!Ms. Franklin:(By which I mean, I would like you to go through your novel and remove EVERYTHING which is not important to the story you are telling *cough* stupid romantic sub-plot *cough*) Now, to be fair, it is VERY romance light – and what is there doesn’t rear its ugly head until about 3/4 of the way through the novel, which is GOOD! – but I found it unnecessary and frankly annoying. Romance shouldn’t bleed i
3 StarsOkay, let’s get the trash out of the way first, shall we?!Ms. Franklin:(By which I mean, I would like you to go through your novel and remove EVERYTHING which is not important to the story you are telling *cough* stupid romantic sub-plot *cough*) Now, to be fair, it is VERY romance light – and what is there doesn’t rear its ugly head until about 3/4 of the way through the novel, which is GOOD!
What IS that?!Onto the actual story: It was said in the school’s mortuary that Adelia was interest in you only if you were dead.I thoroughly enjoyed Franklin’s writing style, I thought her way of showing the essence of a woman struggling within herself to exist in a man's world was exquisite!
You also get a mixture of different character types, different cultures.Here is an excerpt about Cambridge, the town itself: Believing it to be her business to investigate the murderer's territory and see something of the town, she was surprised but not displeased, to find that Brother Swithin, busy with a new influx of travellers, was prepared to let her go without an escort and that, in Cambridge's teeming streets, women of all castes bustled about their business unaccompanied with faces unveiled.....The town opened itself wide like a flat flower to catch what light the english sky gave it.
The murderer must be found so the Jews can go home, back to work so they can pay taxes.
This reads like fiction from start to finish.
From start through page 137, it reads like fiction.
You know, I like reading historical memoirs and about different cultures.
3.5 stars.
I wasn't sure at the beginning of this book if I would like this.
For some reason, I was having trouble comprehending.
I'm not even sure if that is an accurate way to describe it.
But then it all came together and I really enjoyed the story.
Set in the Middle Ages, this book satisfied my historical fiction addiction.
I love the premise of there being forensic pathology in that time period (even if it probably isn't historically accurate) and a woman being the doctor.
Recommended if this type of book is your thing :)
Ugh. Can I give a book zero stars?
The anachronisms in this book could take up an entire review: feminism, religious tolerance, psychology, forensics and modern medical theory...
The author has characters evesdropping on conversations in languages they don't speak.
(Or do I assume that a 9-year old eel catcher in Cambridge speaks Arabic?) The plot is patchy and formulaic.
In this economy can we not hire a few good editors to rein in the blatent abuse of excessive language and the inclusion of every single piece of irrelevant information to prove that the author did some research?
Read this pre-Goodreads. My opinions are my own:
You are a drab, she told herself, seduced into infatuation by a soldier’s tale.
Such proceeded and the tale veered into the impossible.
This may work with Bones or the Gringa Detective on The Bridge but a stoic investigator appears almost silly during the reign of Henry II.
The plot is standard, someone is abducting children and murdering them.
The service of three investigators from Salermo are summoned.
Henry has the best lines, chewing through scenes like Peter O'Toole and becoming the Deus ex machina to a plot leaning painfully on the Crusades and the corpse of Thomas Becket.
An Italian female physician/pathologist is sent to England to solve the murder of a few children. Almost 5 stars. It's written with humor and I really enjoyed it. Thank you Annet for the recommendation!
This is the first in the Mistress of the Art of Death series, introducing Adelia, a doctor of medicine who is also trained in forensic medicine at the University of Salerno in Italy (a university which taught Christian, Jew, and Muslim alike) and her manservant the Saracen Mansur, a eunuch.
He sends to the King of Italy for Salerno-trained investigators to solve the murderers.
Together with Simon, who is Jewish, the three begin to investigate the deaths of the children, together with the help/interference of Rowley Picot, the king's tax collector.
It took me some time to read this book cause I've got exams coming up, not because I didn't like it..If you like history books, you will be pleasantly surprised with this book, I mean I liked it and I don't like historical fiction, not even Phillipa Gregory's books.
Also, the plot is great, you've got the crime, but not many details about it, which tbh I was glad there wasn't, I dont think I would have been able to read about the gore details.
There are many "unbelievable" things that happened in the book, but all in all it's a good book, worth reading, and has some great remarks you'll like!
Excellent historical crimefiction about an 12 th century female pathologist. Interesting period in England, i know almost nothing about. Well written. Absolutely love it. Thanks Annet and Suzanne for the recommending reviews!
Still- it became difficult at times to understand Adelia's placement in that time period, for me.
Within the culture of her Italian home place, I don't understand how she wasn't ostracized by those outside of her own family.
Archaic words and placements both coring the authentic feel and mood, but at the same time slowing down my reading to such an extent that I started to lose the pull toward reveal, and a couple of times, nearly all the tension of her success and implementations.
Not as hard as understanding passages of Shakespeare or Canterbury Tale English- but adjacent difficult.Love the ability of tale telling by Franklin and the authentic feel!
I tend to massively adore historical mysteries as a genre, and thus decided to finally give the late Ariana Franklin's Mistress of the Art of Death a perusal, as I am always in particular looking for new and interesting Medieval mysteries (and the novel did look personally appealing, both due to its setting in Medieval Cambridge, as well as having received a goodly number of appreciative and even glowing reviews); some of my most trusted GR friends actually consider the entire series as a personal favourite.
Alternately horrified and fascinated, Adelia struggles to fulfill her mission, dodging danger and deceit at every turn, and maintain her sense of independence.This is one of the best books I've read all year and I highly recommend it.
This novel is part forensic mystery, part historical fiction - the forensic pieces being rather gruesome (I skimmed that) but ultimately the different pieces mesh together to createa truly fascinating story about a medieval careerwoman that resonates right down to our own time.
Children are being kidnapped in Cambridge, England, and one body has been found; local Jews are being blamed for their deaths. In order to identify the true murderer, a doctor specializing in autopsies comes to Cambridge from Salernobut the doctor, Adelia, is female, and the year is 1171. A combination historical fiction and crime drama, Mistress of the Art of Death is a mediocre example of both: anachronisms litter the 12th Century setting, and the detective work is adequately plotted but unexc
This is, on the whole, how Franklin writes her book: she makes attempts at various aspects--a historical setting, character creation, romance, a murder mystery--and then foils her own plans in a variety of little weaknesses and errors.
Instead, the fact that every aspect lacks something, every aspect is somehow weak, makes this novel not good, not bad, but entirely mediocre.
But I don't and can't recommend Mistress of the Art of Death, and ultimately I was disappointed--not because the book is poor, but because it is entirely mediocre, and left me with no redeeming factors to take away and enjoy.
Set within the historical backdrop of Cambridge, England and packed with many well sketched characters, The Mistress of the Art of Death is an Excellent who done it with class.In addition, Ariana Franklin presents a vary valid reason for Henry II argument and subsequent murder of Archbishop Thomas of Canterbury that is both surprising yet so completely sensible that the reader can not help but have one of those light bulb moments so rare in literature.The only detraction for this novel is the confusing number of characters that are thrust upon the reader within the first 30 pages.
Η εκδοτική που το έβγαλε δεν του φέρθηκε τόσο καλά όσο θα έπρεπε.
Το εξώφυλλο δεν είναι καλό και δεν το έχει προωθήσει όσο χρειάζεται, εγώ προσωπικά πριν πέσει στα χέρια μου δεν το είχα ξαναδεί.
Με τράβηξε όμως και με έβαλε στο κόσμο του απο την πρώτη του σελίδα ως και την τελευταία.
Διαδραματίζεται γύρω στο 1150 όταν η εκκλησία ήταν ακόμα ενάντια στην ιατρική.
Γραμμένο με τόσο έξυπνο τρόπο που δεν σε κουράζει καθόλου ούτε με ιατρικά στοιχεία, ούτε με ιστορικά παρότι η συγγραφέας καταλαβαίνεις ότι έχει μελετήσει καλά και τα δύο αντικείμενα και αρκετές δόσεις χιούμορ.
I hate to not finish a book but I have to put this one aside. It's due at the library in a few days and I just couldn't get into it. It's not a bad book though, just not my scene :)
I've picked up this book at least a dozen time over the past 4 or 5 years and couldn't get into it.
For some reason, even the title put me off (I had some mistaken vision of Elvira).
This time, I stayed with the book and was well-rewarded with an intelligent, well-written mystery, set in the 12th century.
I like the 12th century, with its plagues and Plantagenets, but I liked the mystery even better.
I strongly recommend this book for mystery lovers whether or not they like historical fiction.
It is 1171, and four children in Cambridge have been horribly murdered.
The locals blame the resident Jews, and have lynched two of them, and the others have fled for safety to the local royal castle.
Henry II, who values his Jews because they are worth so much tax revenue, has sent to Sicily for an investigator, or "fixer," and a "master of the art of death," who can say exactly how the children died.
What he gets is Simon of Naples (the investigator), a mistress of the art of death, one Vesuvia Adelia Rachel Ortese Aguilar, and her Saracen eunich guard, Mansur.This was a very interesting novel.
There are enough odd point-of-view shifts in the early scenes in particular, that I actually thought briefly that it was a paranormal and Adelia could read minds.
This is annoying.Darkness: This is a book about children being murdered in the most horrific of ways.
A minor thing compared to the child murders, probably, but it felt like insult to injury.Just...way into the heart of darkness here.
Cleverness could have done it--Don't Breathe a Word is also about awful things happening to kids, but the plot is so diabolically genius that some of your focus goes to that instead.Romance--for pete's sake, Adelia, why didn't you just marry him?
