https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56649.The_Adventurers
Three words.Diogenes. Alejandro. Xenos.Growing up, my bedroom was the repository for all my mother's books - encyclopedias, Reader's Digest hardcover reference books, Grimm's Fairy Tales, and more. And on the top-most shelf was this beat up thick paperback missing its cover. At 12 years old, I climbed up to get this book, dusted it off and started reading.The prologue starts with a rape and a murder. And I was hooked.Way to start one's reading list, eh?
I read this book back when my taste was not so discriminatory, but remember liking it very much.
I will need to read it again to see if I still like it as much.
You get to know his personality, like how quiet and thoughtful he is.
And his loyalty to the general says alot about him also.Another thing that stands out is his life-long buddy Fat-Cat. Mr.
Robbins did a wonderful job bringing this secondary character to life.
Mr. Robbins definitely brings you along with him to the jungles of South America.
I remember being so wrapped up in this book.
Don't think we had any idea about politics, communism or otherwise, it was just imagery!
In any case this book was gripping, DAX the main character was the ultimate hard case, the ultimate sex God, an unwitting leader of men.
As a teenager, the sex, the violence, the rich, the poor all intermingling into one fascinating glimpse that the imagery of the period had us convinced was real.
Not so sure I would like it now as a mature 60 something, not blinded by imagery any longer - but then, oh then, oh what a book!
It is sincere and brutal, bit emphasised, but home heroes and playboys were like that (that kind are extinct species by now), especially if you come from a little fictional Latin country where things fall apart.You just want to have one DAX in your life.
I have read it numerous time age 12-16, and I have never re-read it after so it stays in my mind as one of the first literature contacts and I don't want to spoil this book with adult reading.
I have screwed up most of my Sidney Sheldon memories and I can't allow myself to make that mistake twice.The book was inspired by the life of Dominican diplomat Porfirio Rubirosa.
I loved this book, as well as most of Robbin's books; I've read most all of them probably beginning when each one came out.
but then again.This is a terrific story, which was always Harold's real strength.
Much edge of seat drama, Very difficult to put down, even reading again after 20 or so years.
Almost no boring parts (that I usually can't wait to get through) that I find in many other novels.Relating novels to real characters and events is also a very strong point.
I have not yet found a novelist like Robbins, still looking though.
Evidently this is some type of classic? While I would have loved to have finished and seen what happened, I could not stand all the rape. Not just rape, but the casual and almost constant character it was in itself. I'm not squeamish and I read a lot of hard core stuff, but I just could NOT. 3 hrs into the 24 hr audio book and I had already lost count of the assaults.
My all time favorite book!
I read this back in the early 70s. It was a great read then and I'm sure it would be a great read now.
A Robbins book came up in my feed. I recall this one only and enjoying it. Read 40 years back!!!!!!!
Every once in a while you need a good old-fashioned trashy sex and violence novel to counterbalance the really classy stuff you normally read. Robbins fills the bill quite adequately.
A the time, I had to read it when I could not get caught with it.
As we were involved in Vietnam at the time, this book made it clear that war was NOT the sterile thing that the war movies and TV shows I had watched made it out to be.
Now, I have been going back through some of the books that I read during that era to see how well they hold up.
Secondly, as a budding author, he likely had a good editor.
So time to dig in to see how the book holds up.
But while it would be easy to dismiss this story as light reading, there is an undertone, and possibly a warning.
Upon my first reading of this book, shortly after it's publication it seemed more a tale of the coming and going of power in a small South American country, not much more.
Robbins has an easy to read style of writing, and while there is not a huge amount of character description, what is there is sufficient for the reader to understand what we must of each character.
This tale of South American corruption is confronting in its graphic violence and sex.
It captures the sense of futility of war and struggle against oppression.
Starting at the end and then recalling the events that led to it, you find yourself trying to work out ways the main character can avoid his fate echoing the futility of his own struggle.
I found this Harold Robbins novel much more compelling than his novel on prostitution.
If your looking for hope, this novel will not give it to you.
But you cannot help but admire the characters who continue to fight for what's right without hope.
Robbins must have been in somewhat of a reflective mood when he wrote this book.
The 'Epilogue as a Prologue' chapter sets a kind of tone for the rest of the story: all Dax's jet-setting, sexual adventures, polo playing and mixing with the rich and famous is, ultimately, worthless.
The folk that tend to just focus on the sex in Harold Robbins's stories are more shallow than the characters they accuse him of portraying.
The characters in The Adventurers are complex human beings.
As usual with Robbins's books The Adventurers is a rattling good read but with a shadow of doom and futility hanging over every scene.
Un romanzo di formazione bellissimo. Un viaggio dal sud America, all'Europa, all'America, nei panni di un viaggiatore dalle molte qualità. Finire questo libro mi ha lasciato un incredibile vuoto dentro, come pochi ci sono riusciti. Una storia che ti prende e vorresti non finisse mai. Acquistai questo volume in una bancarella ed è tra i volumi cartacei che custodisco con più cura da quando mi sono avvicinata al digitale. Uno dei pochi libri che rileggerei, solo per la gioia di sfogliare quelle pagine e rivivere le avventure del protagonista.
It took me 2 months to finish the book not because it's boring or it's not good. It took me that long because I didn't want to finish the book so soon. And it's not even legit to say I finished it in 2 months because the last 2 pages were tear off and lost and it took me another 6 years to read the last two pages and read the ending. It was worth the wait. Very heartbreaking story.
Brilliant and in its pulpy way a sort of Hamlet by way of Simón Bolívar and Túpac Amaru. "Dax" is one of the best male protagonists in modern literature. Multicultural and beautiful to behold in full flight.
I read this probably 40 years ago and have always thought it was one of my favorite books. I just reread it and I did like it...did not remember any of it except Dax who I remembered as this hunky guy...I liked it very much.
I've read this book before and all I can say is that it's a very involved book , compelling, moving, gripping a real page turner. When I read, I somehow become the characters: like I'm in their fantasy, I become a different person with each new book I'm reading.
More sex and violence from HR. The movie was pretty crappy. Fictionalized life of Porfirio Rubirosa. Date read is a guess.
I found The Adventurers to be spellbinding when I was 20 years old. Will give it another read 38 years later to see if it still has the same impact.
And for a while I wanted to visit South America - but never did!
I was young, it had sex and violence. I was captivated. The story was also excellent as best I can recall or else I may just have skipped over much of it.
This was my sex ed book at age 13 - oh my!Fast paced, sexy and entertaining - over the top to the point of silly sometimes, but oh my!
I read a number of sixties potboilers when I was in junior high and early high school. I knew even then they were extremely trashy, much as I might have enjoyed them.
A total Masala Book with everything.. Amazing Read
Very Good story...
De DAX, he no fight as passionately nor love de woman as intensely as de Concord Newfree. He fake little momma boy compared to de Concord Newfree. He not even get job clean my car.
Goodreads rating 77
Read 6/01
