https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40779236-divine-evil
Just as she should be basking in the acceptance of critics and buyers, Clare abruptly decides to leave New York and return to her Emmitsboro, Maryland, her hometown and site of so many painful memories.
After having worked as a detective in Washington, DC, Cameron (Cam) Rafferty has also returned to Emmitsboro as the sheriff, escaping to a much quieter life on the streets and in his home.
Neither Clare or Cam could have foreseen the evil that lived inside of the town, even though her nightmares were born there.
What a truly creepy story!
There are quite a few negative reviews for this book - which surprises me a little, but at the same time, I can also understand.
Divine Evil is a rather atypical for Roberts as its much more descriptive and gruesome than her other books.
It creeped me out a bit, but not nearly enough to stop reading the book or to refuse to read another Nora Roberts book (as some reviewers said they have done).
(I'd say more, but it's been ages since I last read this book).
But I still loved the book.
It's definitely one of my all-time keepers and Nora Roberts favorite.
What a book! What a book! I can't sleep because all I'm thinking about is what happens next!Clare is an artist living in New York, she is a successful sculptress, from a little town called Emmitsboro, 28 years old redhead and haunted by weird nightmares of her childhood, she is messy, smokes, lives in her own head and tries to move away from her past.In Emmitsboro, a cult is murdering again and cop Cam is on it!
A sect of Satanic worshipers who rape and kill women in a small town in the middle of nowhere.Not my thing. This book is too disturbed for me :(But it is shockingly similar to the movie Hot Fuzz :DDDDD
I am a huge NR fan, but I never did like this one. It's conclusion was very disturbing to me, and I actually had nightmares. I am very against disposing of books in general, but this one hit the trash bin with amazing speed. I'm just glad it didn't turn me off of her writing for good, and I still collect anything and everything else she's written, even when they aren't my favorites. I definitely would NOT reccomend this book to others. In fact, I usually tell people to stay away from it.
B+Forgettable?
Probably.
"Divine Evil" kept me entertained throughout and there was never really a dull moment.
I'm still not sure why this wasn't a 5 Star for me...it might have been the characters (or maybe just my personal lack of connection with them), or the fact that the "cult" killed and raped for more than 20 years and no one in this teeny/gossipy small town noticed.
WTH?!Even after my negatives this was still a great summer read and I really enjoyed it.
I can see if Roberts had wrote a sequel to this, but since she didn't, this book has an odd and menacing ending.Clare Kimball is a sculptor living in New York.
When her mother remarries and goes on her honeymoon, Clare decides to return to her former home in Emmitsboro, Maryland.
She thinks she can stay there and work on new pieces and maybe come to terms other her father's death and her anger towards her mother for moving on.So Clare sucks.
I felt more for Cam especially when there's a reveal about how his father died and I hated that I don't think he was told during the course of the story.
Nora Roberts' books are my go-to guilty pleasure books, but this one did not work for me.
I know there are active cults in our country and that Satanism is a thing, but really?
(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]A secret Satanist cult that literally rules the town?
If they're dumb enough to not only trust their lives to this kid who could destroy them by revealing their secret but to want him to LEAD them and make decisions for them, then it's pretty clear that their days are numbered anyway!(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)] I didn't mind the graphic violence or gory parts; the believability factor was my main issue.I guess the setting is the most believable part.
4.5 stars.
I ran out of books to read so she lent it me.
I liked the characters, including Clare and Cameron.
I liked reading their relationship and liked how it progressed throughout the book.
What happened with Clare and Cameron?
I felt that the book could have done with one last chapter, maybe about what had happened when it all came out, how people reacted etc.
It was a really good book with a lot of surprises.
If you're interested in mystery books with romance, this would be a good book to read.
But this town holds a dark secret.Clare iss now a successful artist that has been living in New York City.
She has now come home to Emmitsboro to settle her past.
He too has come home, but he is running from a horrible memory in DC.
He's now the sheriff of Emittsboro.He had a crush on Clare when they were teens, but she never new it.
Cam never quite new it either until he sees her again.They are thrown together to solve what is happening in the town.
Murders, disappearnces, possible Satan worship.
However, it contains rape scenes and satantic worship as well.
I have not read ONE Nora Roberts Crime Thriller that I didn't thoroughly enjoy. She always finds a way to give you a lovable heroine and a charming Male protagonist. This was a great story about hoe darkness can lie in any small town. By the end of it you knew pretty much everything going on, so there was no real "AH HA!" moment. However the closing scene did throw in a nice little twist. Highly recommended for Crime Thriller lovers.
A book that reminded me of Brotherhood in Death which I read recently and also involves a (view spoiler)[villainous secret society (hide spoiler)].Clare, an artist famous for her dark work, returns to the town where she grew up in order to face the nightmares of her past that include her father's suicide.
There she reunites with Cameron, a bad boy of their high school days who is now the town sheriff.The two share some pretty intense attraction and soon start a relationship, that eventually help Clare deal with her past trauma and Cameron discover the truth about (view spoiler)[his step-father and the satanic cult that had been operating in their little town and included a number of its most prominent members.
So I had another deja vu moment with a NR book. Pretty sure I read back in 2010 before GRs for me. Anywho, so many years in books between, I wasn’t certain of the story and still enjoyed.I did dislike Cam’s mom and Claire at times. The whole head in the sand routine plucked my nerves, especially Cam’s mom and all of her actions.Claire at least saw reason.Overall good book. Good narration.
This review was originally posted on One Curvy Blogger br>It's not often when I come across a Nora Roberts novel that I haven't read. When I first discovered adult romance, Roberts was one of the first authors I ran across. I found out I loved her work, and basically read any and all of her books that I could get my hands on. I purchased Divine Evil in a used bookstore and thought I hadn't read it, so I snatched it up. About half way in, I realized I had read it before, but it didn't stop me
This review was originally posted on One Curvy Blogger  br>It's not often when I come across a Nora Roberts novel that I haven't read.
I found out I loved her work, and basically read any and all of her books that I could get my hands on.
If you are a fan of Nora Roberts - especially her romantic suspense - and haven't read this one yet, you definitely should pick it up.
It was so good, I read this 500+ page (568 pages to be exact) book in less than 20 hours!
3.5 STARSI found the audio version while cruising OverDrive and couldn't resist. This is by far the darkest book I've read from NR. It wasn't bad but definitely dated. I probably would have enjoyed it much more 15 years ago. Audio - Katie Firth is an excellent narrator. I wouldn't hesitate to listen to her again.
I had some troubles with this book, some of them can be found in other Nora's books, even though I am a huge fan of hers.
The romance was was pretty much typical of her stories; Clare really got on my nerves most of the time with her attitude and her insistence in keeping important things (regarding the satanic ritual which was responsible for killing all people in the book) from Cameron.
Nora can give someone the shivers when she wants to, and this was most definetely one of the darkest stories she has ever writen.
I usually adore the great NR, But, for this one, the heroine kept ticking me off. Seems Cam wanted a girl like his Mom, the ostrich type. Everyone knows about the cult thing, but Claire, who actually saw it, and has been having nightmares her whole life. She says "pfft" and hides her head. Nora usually writes great heroines, but this one jumped around so much in personality, I kept wanting to slap her on the back of the head and yell, "wake up, idiot!"
2.5 stars. Claire is an absolute idiot. I couldn't stand her. In fact most of the women in this book are unbearably stupid and/or horrible people. The plot wasn't bad and I liked Cam but overall I have to give it a thumbs down
What a great (and seriously creepy) Nora Roberts book!
The romance played second fiddle in this novel about a quaint little Maryland town, harboring the evil secret of a Satanic cult that meets in the woods, sacrifices animals, and rapes and murders women.
She is reconnected with Cam Rafferty (a fantastic hero), the town sheriff, just as things begin to go awry in the community.
This is, being a Nora book, a romance novel.
It's one of Nora's edgier, more graphic stories, and definitely not for the faint of heart, or anyone who's scared to read about a little devil worship.
Man, I was glad when this thing was over. Clare was so overdramatic about everything and Cam was way too alpha male.
3.5 stars. I wasn't happy with the odd ending and that's what keeps it from being 4 stars for me.
Haven't read Nora Roberts in many years but found myself in a "Friends of the Library" bookstore and discovered a nearly complete collection of her works in hardback.
I chose one at random that I was pretty sure I hadn't read.
Fast moving, great characters, tight story line, and the romance was just enough to make it "real." My only criticism is that the main female character seemed a bit weak.
Often whiney, petulant, and a bit naive for a New Yorker.
Other than that, this book was a grabber for me.
I plan to donate this book back to the store and buy another.
Mais um livro que gostei bastante, é assim que eu gosto da autora, mistério, crime, romance.Este é bem pesado em que a autora não poupou na descrição dos horrores passados nos rituais satânicos passado numa pequena povoação em Maryland em que todos se conhecem e que não acreditam no que esta-se a passar com estes crimes violentos que estão a acontecer.Um livro muito bom, que faz com que eu continue a ler Nora Roberts.
It has been a long time since I read Nora Roberts. This one was too creepy for me. I finished it but I was tempted more than once to not finish it. Rape, murder and satanic worship was too much for me. I would not recommend it.
dit is een Nora Roberts zoals je die nog nooit hebt gelezen. Koude rillingen, verbazing, luguber en een zeer verrassend einde. En natuurlijk ook wat liefde en romantiek
Nora takes on the subject of perfect daddy and satianism. It was a good read, even though I figured it all out half way through.
I have put off reading this book for years because of the title.
Evil is something I find difficult to read about.
Finally I decided to give it a try, and it is about evil, but no worse than some of Ms. Roberts' In Death books.
Clare nearly drove me crazy with her forgetfulness and casual treatment of her possessions.
She reminded me of an ostrich, always with her head buried in the sand rather than facing her problems head-on.
As for the plot, every time a woman entered the story, I froze until I knew she was going to be all right.
Not an easy book to read.
It was a little hard for me to suspend my disbelief about a devil worship cult as the cause for the murders in a small town.
That theme kind of dated it as from the 90s, as did the amount of smoking!
The thing that I enjoyed most about this novel was that Nora Roberts explored the the feelings and situations of multiple characters in the town.
This made the novel feel a bit long, but I think that the extra length was worth it.
Town Emmitsboro resembles like Twin peaks (David Lynch's TV serial) for me.Kind of a eerie, dark and secret. Liked it for the murder - investigation stuffs though it was just a small part.Not a bad pick!.
I enjoyed Divine Evil. I just didn't like the ending . It was pretty unrealistic and left a lot hanging. The very last part was perfect.!
