https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/648511.The_Empty_Copper_Sea
The brief coupling which came about by nature, and McGee’s desire not to damage her pride, will eventually bring about tragedy for someone, and a moment of violence which almost touches Meyer.The two young women who were aboard the boat, Felicia Amber, and Michelle Burns, are wonderfully drawn by MacDonald, giving the reader a vivid picture of the girls; one Honduran girl who speaks with an accent but thinks she doesn’t, and another who has the looks and personality of Doris Day but is what is commonly known among men as a semi-pro.There is more going on in Timber Bay than trying to figure out whether Hub Lawless is alive or not, however.
Harder gets around to stating that he's lost his license after his employer, businessman Hubbard Lawless, went overboard off the coast of Timber Bay and Harder was found by the sheriff below deck, passed out drunk.A born again Christian, Harder maintains that he blacked out after sharing one customary drink with Hub, a family man and community pillar who had asked Harder to take Hub, Hub's loyal yes-man John Tuckerman and two local girls out on the water at night.
Travis McGee bills himself as a salvage consultant, but this time out he’s trying to salvage someone’s reputation rather than their money.McGee is approached by an old acquaintance named Van Harder who was held responsible for the death of his employer Hubbard Lawless.
McGee and his best friend Meyer head to the town of Timber Bay to see if they can uncover some proof that Harder was set up.This is kind of an odd plot because it seems like Harder would be cleared even if Travis had done nothing since the entire town is convinced that Lawless ran to Mexico, and the sheriff already has plenty of evidence that he’s investigating to prove that.
Oh, and perhaps Florida is also having its own crisis caused by growth, tourism, and environmental issues caused by growth.It was a solid McGee novel.
According to Amis, MacDonald "is by any standards a better writer than Saul Bellow, only MacDonald writes thrillers and Bellow is a human-heart chap, so guess who wears the top-grade laurels." Now, I'm a big big fan of Saul Bellow, so I'm not sure I would go THAT far, but I think we do a disservice when we dismiss good genre fiction too quickly.
MacDonald was an Army officer during WWII.Bond is a commander in the British Navy when he’s not spying and being cool; McGee’s military career is often hinted at or explicitly stated.While Bond serves the Queen, American McGee is a loner “salvage consultant” who espouses libertarian ideals and does favors for his friends.Bond likes good liquor, can handle himself in a fight and is handy with the ladies, as is McGee.Bond is an English gentlemen, but deadly; McGee is an American everyman man’s man, and deadly, but much friendlier.Actually, the Florida setting for MacDonald’s hero makes me think of Jimmy Buffett and John Wayne’s 1942 film Reap the Wild Wind (because of the tall hero and the salvage references.)Speaking of height, McGee is supposed to be very tall and outdoorsy, like John Wayne, AND another reference to Thomas Magnum P.I.
I re-read this after quite a few years, and remembered little, which was good. Travis is far from perfect, but there is much that is good in his (and Meyer's) set of values, and these stories are a great contrast to the serious reading that takes most of my time.

****.An old friend of Travis, Van Harder, shows up at McGee’s dock.
When McGee begins his investigation, he learns that Van Harder was a reformed alcoholic, and never had more than one drink on rare occasions.
Travis also learned that the disappeared investor was in a great deal of trouble financially, and had probably siphoned off about two-million dollars in cash from his array of businesses.
The roots of the mystery go deep, but Travis ultimately unravels the twisted skein of activities and soon learns the truth, although he manages to get beaten up and shot at several times along the way.
This is one of the later Travis McGee novels, the second one I have read, and it had a pretty decent plot with some well sketched support characters all effected, and in some cases implicated, when a small town tycoon goes missing, suspected drowned after falling off his own yacht.
He also does a bit of soul-searching and gets a bit miffed.Yet the main problem with this novel for me was still McGee himself, as it was with The Deep Blue Good-by, the previous tale I had read a couple of years back.
With Travis McGee, I would say that John D MacDonald achieved something not unlike trying to smoke without a mouth - You can get close, but no cigar.
Some years back an old friend of mine, now sadly passed on, advised me: "The Travis McGee novels are all pretty much interchangeable--until you get to THE EMPTY COPPER SEA, when things really begin to shift." As I've been reading this series in order, slowly savoring each one, I admit I was looking forward to seeing what mysteries COPPER would hold.On a narrative level, the differences are not significant, and in fact, in many ways, the plot of COPPER mirrors that of its predecessor, THE DREADFUL LEMON SKY: Trav and Meyer work themselves into the social fabric of a small Florida town (one of JDM's favorite themes) in order to clear the name and salvage the reputation of a friend who can't do so for him/herself.
Meyer is always there, playing Robin to Travis' Batman.
The ending took me completely by surprise.
Of all the ways I thought it would end, this option wasn't even in my peripheral vision.
wow.One of my favorite things about this installment is the way Travis and Meyer play good cop-bad cop.
There's something so in-tune about them, so symbiotic, that it wouldn't surprise me a bit if it were revealed in a later volume that they've been lovers this whole time.
In Travis and Meyer, John D MacDonald has definitely created one of the most complex and interesting friendships in modern literature.
The book starts out flat, but has a different feel that the others in the series. First, Meyer leads the investigation. Second, no aliases or lying is used to get information. The usual number of women are bedded and there is some daring-do at the end, but McGee sufferes angst issues and is startingto feel useless and old,The prose remains elegant and crisp with shades of the romantic.
Good twist at the end. Actually, a couple of them.McGee and Meyer at their finest.Good story - a reminder of the early drug scene in the 70's
Another workmanlike thriller from the great Florida crime/mystery writer. This time, Travis and his pal Meyer try to solve the mystery of multimillionaire businessman, who may or may not have died in a suspicious boating accident; or he may have faked his own death, and disappeared in Mexico, with his lover and big $$ in tow. Along the way, Travis again finds love, or something like it. As usual, terrific descriptions of the Florida landscape and seascape. And some philosophical musings on the part of Travis.
This time round Travis is sought out by an old friend who has since lost his boat licence due to alleged negligence having lost nearly everything he hires Travis to investigate on the promise of a future IOU. Meyer & Travis travel down whilst the old friend brings Travis's houseboat The Busted Flush down. It would seem things are not quite how the official story states them to be and more digging reveals more secrets.An excellent addition to the series, plenty of fast talk and fisticuffs. Good ending.
What a great, fun romp! Even though it's outdated now, it's still worth reading. The story was full of derring-do. The writing was really good. The descriptions made me want to spend May on the Florida Caribbean beach, and I never really wanted to do that. The romantic adventures were exactly right. The women characters were as vivid as Travis McGee. You can't go wrong reading this one.
An okay entry in the McGee series.
Another great ride!Another well written, captivating story. Mc Donald 's descriptions of action moments are great. And McGee always seems to put people in their place, like we wished we could. I have enjoyed many of his stories and keep coming back. I am never disappointed.
MacDonald never goes to the point of creating a romantic drama in the vein of Nicholas Sparks, he mixes familiar action and violence with moments of McGee musing to himself that perhaps he finally has a chance to leave everything he has done and his loneliness behind.
It doesn't take away from the adventure and mystery one expects from  The Empty Copper Sea, it adds to it, and you find yourself racing through the pages to find out if our hero can finally know peace and love as he approaches middle age.
"I turned my head and saw, beyond the shoulder of my beloved, the empty copper sea, hushed and waiting, as if the world had paused between breaths."About Travis McGee novels: he usually gets in over his head.
This is probably my least-favorite Travis McGee novel, even though it was made into a Sam Elliott movie.
But no, the blogs tell me Rod Taylor was the Travis McGee for the DARKER THAN AMBER movie.John D.
MacDonald was a consistent wordsmith worthy of study by other novelists; even the worst McGee novel has lessons we writers can learn from.My advice remains the same.
OK, go read every Travis McGee novel.
large print edition"I knew him real well, Mr. McGee, and in the last few years he seemed to me to be kind of … wistful. He was getting heavy and out of condition, and he smoked too much. He didn't have time to stay in shape. He didn't have time for much social life or home life, either. Nice home. Lovely wife and daughters. But he had chained himself to the table without realizing it. He knew, or had started to realize, that the rest of his life was going to be pretty much the same." "One of tho
He didn't have time for much social life or home life, either.
Nice home.
He knew, or had started to realize, that the rest of his life was going to be pretty much the same."	"One of those evaluations that come along at forty?"	"I suppose so.
But he felt the weight of the people who depended on him for jobs.
I guess he even felt my weight.
I guess a man gets to feel the need to experience more lives than the one they give him a chance to lead, no matter how well he does it." (p.
In a period of angst, Travis McGee pursues a "salvage job" for altruistic reasons - to restore the good name of his friend Van Harder.
But to do so, he and Meyer must solve a mystery that everyone has been trying to solve for years - did Hub Lawless set up Van Harder, fake his own death to go hide in Mexico living on stolen money or is he actually dead.
While McGee still pretty much sleeps with any skirt that pursues him or interests him when paths cross, at least MacDonald is starting to move beyond (I hope) the theme that sex with McGee cures whatever ails a women (eye roll).
Travis McGee attempts to clear a good man's name and in doing so, learns more about the apparent disappearance of Hub Lawless, a local business who his friend was working for.
It seems that his friend was captaining the man’s yacht and was found drunk at the wheel, when Lawless went crashing overboard.
McGee learns that his friend was administered a horse tranquiliser and then turns his attention to the whereabouts of Lawless and a cache of money.
He meets the lovely Gretel, who expunges a depression he has fallen into, but he and the lovely lady almost lose their lives in another breathtaking finale.Another first class thriller, from a master of the genre.
This was my first foray into the world of Travis McGee as well as my first John D.
MacDonald book.
I enjoyed the story and the characters of McGee and his resourceful partner Meyer, as well as the author's skill at crafting a mystery.
I bought two McGee books when I got this one, and after finishing 'Empty Copper Sea', I sought out more books by the author.
Someone had unloaded a bunch of them at my local Goodwill (a great place for cheap paperbacks) and I bought all of them.
I look forward to more adventures of Travis McGee, as well MacDonald's numerous other books.
McGee's capability of finding the truth as always full of excitement and fisticuffs. A friend of Travis....Van Harder was asking for his help to clear his name upon losing his license to skipper a boat, and held responsible for the death of his boss Hub Lawless. McGee being a salvage expert, and a saver of friends will find a way to solve the mystery behind Lawless disappearance.
One of the best McGee books. I liked this story and the little bit of mystery it contained. I think most readers will figure it out long before the story reveals itself, but it's good nevertheless.This book Ned's to be read in order or too much of the plot is given away in the next book.
This series never gets old and each book is just as good, if not better than the last. This one was excellent and I loved every minute of it. The Travis McGee and his friend Meyer are wonderful. The books are filled with wit and emotions.
You can't beat John D. MacDonald and Travis McGee. Great book!
Just going through the motions by this time.
I loved this story. Didn't want to put it down.
