https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42696.Trinity
Jedna od meni najdrazih knjiga o Irskoj a Leon Uris je jedan od deset meni najdrazih "engleskih/americkih" pisaca... imala sam cast da pre nekoliko godina u Londonu budem pozvana na veceru s njegovom nekadasnjom agentkinjom i prijateljicom... i s njom podelim svoju ljubav prema njegovim knjigama... Mislim da svako treba da procita barem jednu od njegovih knjiga (a najbolje sve)
This is the first Uris book I read, and I became an instant fan.
The only minor "negative" I can think of is that the story is a bit one-sided, but as you read, you find yourself believing that the rebels' cause is a righteous one.
Action, drama, suspense, romance, history, this book has a bit of everything!
I'm also not one to get all that emotional when reading books, but the last chapter...
Make sure you read the sequel,  Redemption  to find out what happens to the characters!
This person's comments were basically that the situation was presented one-sided, without any shades of gray, and the book was little more than propaganda.I disagree with that assessment, but also want to ask the question-- how can there be another side to either the Irish Catholic situation in Northern Ireland or certainly, the Jewish exodus to Israel after WWII?
And it is also established fact, I believe, that they blockaded Palestine after the war to prevent Jewish immigration.So, I don't see what "other side" could be presented.
This kind of cartoonish view of the world leads to books which might be better classified as propaganda than as historical fiction.This was certainly the case for "Exodus", which amounted to thinly disguised propaganda.
However, I found Uris's heavyhanded, reductionist approach to writing about the situation in my own country supremely offensive from start to finish.
The best that can be said about Uris is that he probably believed his own reductionist, 3rd grade view of history and world politics.
(Though I really would like to send the Bookmobile round to the caves of all those readers who claimed this was their "favorite book ever"!) Well, I disagree with all of those Amazon acolytes.
He is an Irish Catholic rebel who spends his life fighting for his implausible cause.....They sat across from one another and Atty waited until he opened his own door and let it all pour out."If there's a God," he whispered at last, "and I surely think there is, He will have looked down on the Catholics and Protestants of this province and shaken His head sadly in realization it is the one place the Devil has beaten Him thoroughly."There were parts of the story that were exciting and page-turning, and others that read more like a history lesson.
The story was written in a way that left the reader feeling like there was definitely a "good" side and a "bad" side, with so little crossover as to be a bit unrealistic.
Let's begin by stipulating that Uris is a pulp fiction writer and should be read and reviewed on those terms.
With Uris' books the formula is pretty simple: Our hero is noble, well-read, and self-sacrificing.
The right woman is also noble and self-sacrificing, but strong-willed and beautiful.
He sets these folks down in the middle of some big historical conflict and then uses them to give readers a bit of a history lesson.
These are good solid historical epics.I really like Mila 18, his book about the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising.
When I first read this book over twenty years ago, I knew very little of the history of the Home Rul
At the same time, "Trinity" enabled me to discover something about my own Irish background, and put the perspective of history into a new position for me altogether.
I know one person who really had almost a prejudice against their own Irish family of last century, who came away from "Trinity" with a very different perspective indeed.It's really an awful story, and if you wonder any longer why the troubles have continued so long and so bitterly into the last century and, quite possibly, into this one, you must be reading it upside down.
At the same time, it's a great Uris yarn, if one may be permitted to say so.
I recall running late for work, or returning from lunch, during the time that I read this book because I simply had to wrench myself away from the story (often making a bathroom stop to dry my eyes and reapply mascara).
It's a story about a family in Ireland, following their lives through 3(?) generations.
I've always been drawn to everything Irish, but the way the story unfolds, by focusing on one family, through generations, sucks the reader in on such a personal level that you feel as if you've lived the modern history of Ireland...
My Gran remembered those times & equally with more passion than her own lips could mumble, would have watched her family mumble such tales, for their own need to speak what their eyes & hearts have seen and felt...
Protestants actively distanced themselves from Catholics, they were being squeezed and strangled as a people..Now to me the last few parts of this review were about the intelligence of the book itself, Leon Uris's use of fictional characters reflective of the attitudes of the time to explain the dynamics of such history...
This book is essential reading to understand the Irish culture- Uris creates characters that travel through the famine, works with the Fenians, and into the Irish Republican Brotherhood, who become the IRA of the Easter Rising, Michael Collins, etc.
I was handed the book and ordered to read it at 13 by my father.
I will refrain from typing about this book ad nauseum, and say only these two things: 1) there is a literary device used in this book I have never seen anywhere else, and 2) approximately 75% of every boy named Conor was so named because their mothers (and sometimes fathers) read this book.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
I'm going to try and keep this real simple.What I liked: the well-executed compression of Irish history into a thirty-year period from 1885 to 1915, with echoes of the prior thousand years.
The quality of Uris' writing which I've come to expect, in that he can seamlessly weave together scene and summary.
I'm not sure that this ever works well-- when an author throws down exclamation points outside of dialogue.
The overlong section of Seamus' newspaper articles.In conclusion: stirring, sweeping, mostly effective historical fiction with a realistic (i.e., pessimistic) viewpoint on the whole Irish debacle.
I loved the Leon Uris of Battle Cry, Exodus, and QBVII.
Not so much the Leon Uris of The Haj and Mitla Pass.
Of all he wrote my favorite is Trinity.
Trinity is a long book that flies by.
Action, love, suspense and characters you'll care about long after you finish the book.
The summer that Conor and Seamus spent at the Booley House is one of the most idyllic sections of any book I know; especially as it stands in stark contrast to so much heartache that takes place elsewhere.
I often imagine my own summers at the Booley House.
Leon Uris is a fantastic storyteller. This book follows the events of an Irishman named Conor Larkin who, by nature, was larger than life. Larkin needed the 19th century as much as the 19th century needed him. The end is a crashing, tragic, dazzling explosion of nonstop events. It makes me wish I was Larkin. (The sequels are embarrassing, I would start and stop your Uris experience with this book.)
I DO understand Irish history better after reading the book.
That is why historical fiction is good - if the story doesn't grab you well then you can at least learn something.Through page 528 of 751:I feel like I am the odd-ball.
I don't think anybody should avoid this book if you want a long, gripping story of the Irish experience.
Through page 375: If you like a good, long epic story about a family I recommend this book.
First of all I HAD to read it and that is not a good way to start a book.
Written during a time of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland between the Irish Republican Army (IRA) and the Ulster forces, Leon Uris sought to portray and define the history behind the strife.
The complexity of the hatred between the two groups, the Protestant Ulster Orangemen, the Roman Catholic Irish (green) and the British crown (White) can be rivaled by the violence in the Balkans in the 1990's after the dissolution of Yugoslavia.The tension between the groups dates back to 1690 and the Battle of the Boyne where the Dutch Protestant Prince William of Orange (of William and Mary fame) defeated the Catholic English King James II.


Sectarian violence in Ireland before partition. Like any so-called terrorist activity, it ended up with there being little to choose between the protagonists but the origin of this one was certainly down to the British, in the first place, and the Protestants in the second - and mainly down to the brutal treatment of the Catholic Irish during the potato famines. We think it's all over now; but sectarian hate takes a long time to fade.
Uris weaves in the history of the laws as they applied to the Irish over the centuries and the relationships are complex - issues of class, religion, land ownership, corruption of Church officials, manipulation of Protestant congregations and use of the Bible to stoke criminal behavior, the Industrial Revolution, and the universal themes of sibling rivalry, pleasing one's father (as well as challenging the father), the inspiring strength of a mother's love and the terrible fate of woman in a man's world, sexuality, challenging authority of Church/State, what makes a leader, bravery in the face of certain death, the quest for freedom, and doomed love affairs.
I only read this because my Dad loved it and still talks about it all the time ( I think mostly because the main character is Conor and I have a son Connor) I think he read it so long ago that he forgot about the language issue.
Anyway, I am glad I read this book--but I wouldn't read it again due to the bad language.
But--what I loved most about the book besides learning more about Ireland was the main character Conor Larkin.
I can see why my Dad loves this book so much!
"We are all absurd actors on the stage of the diabolical." Spoken by the character who provides the backbone of the novel, Conor Larkin.
This isn't just a book of historical fiction, it really is quite good literature as well.
Parallel's for analyzing abound, and feel a second reading would do it justice but at nearly 900 pages I don't know..I would even say it belong's in required reading in any Irish Lit class.
The characters are brilliantly multi-faceted and shimmer from the pages.
A reader will come away from the book looking at the Irish surnames walking around in abundance in a whole new light.
When I was in the tenth grade, my favorite teacher of all time gave us the assignment to read four books by one of his six favorite authors.
I chose Leon Uris.
First I read EXODUS, then I read TRINITY, and then I fell in love...
with Conor Larkin.
*swoon*Although TRINITY is strictly historical fiction with no hint of magic, I really believe that readers of the OUTLANDER series would enjoy the character of Conor Larkin.
Not only did I fall in love while reading TRINITY...
It's a big book, yes, but it's worth a read.
Excellent historical fiction about Ireland's struggles with England and the fight to declare it's independence.
Trinity is based on actual events and takes the reader on a journey throughout Ireland and tells the heartbreaking history of a country that longed to remove itself from the tyrannical rule of the British and Britain's never ending schemes to keep the Irish poor, hungry and so desperate that Irish countrymen and women had no other choice but to flee to other countries, never to return to their beloved Ireland again.
If you love Ireland, you will love Trinity.There is also a sequel to Trinity.
A masterpiece on Irish story, telling the saga of Conor Larkin, showing his principle of non-recognition of British institutions on Irish soil and disobedience to British authority became a universally accepted cornerstone for breaking the yoke of the colonizer.
This sets him off on the path of Irish revolution against British rule.He grows up to become a master craftsman, rugby player, poet and eventually revolutionary and gun runer.The book is filled with good and evil characters : The aristocratic British overlords the Hubbles and sir Frederick Weed who plays the Orange Card to strengthen British rule over Ireland and the great profits to be made out of the country, As such the book explores the horror of the poverty and exploitation suffered at the time by the Irish people.I fell in love with the beautiful and valiant lover of Conor's the working class Protestant Shelley McLeod, who joins herself body and soul to Conor and his cause.
This novel tells story of the Irish history in the last half of the 19th century up until WWI through the eyes of the Catholics and the Protestants, the traditional Irish men and women and the British-Irish landowners, the Larkins and the Weeds/Hubbles.
The Weeds/Hubbles are the powerful British decended landowners and factory owners who are loyal to the crown and are determined to further divide their society to maintain their economic and political ties to their mother country.
Yes, in this case, I do believe that the British landowners in large part kept the native Irish broken and downtrodden in an effort to maintain their position and power, however, in reality it is rarely that simple and that clear cut.
November 8, 2013Finished re-read of TRINITY. Everything I want to say about the book is diametrically opposed to everything I want to say about the book. That is my best description of Ireland in that day. This book covers the civil unrest in the span of time from the latter 19th century until the second decade of the 20th century. More unrest, such as The Troubles, is yet to be played out in Ireland's history. The year 1917 is a settling down date for much of the strife in Europe and Asia, alth
This book covers the civil unrest in the span of time from the latter 19th century until the second decade of the 20th century.
More unrest, such as The Troubles, 	is yet to be played out in Ireland's history.
The author led us to that date in TRINITY.
It could have ended any number of places if the author had in mind to only write a best seller.
The author made me think about different ethnic groups and how their stories stack up against the history of the Irish who longed for, fought for and died for freedoms fundamental to the very core of who they were.
The point of view is that of the Irish, and it often made me wonder about the degree of subjectivity, but then all zoom-in's on different historic moments are subjective in a way or the other, and power/influence/richness and oppression come more often together than apart.
I liked the idea of a person's spark (pg.
359), the coming alive of one person's full being, true soul.I must mention I started enjoying the book after the first 100-150 pages, when the general gloom started wearing off a little.
