https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146487.The_Great_American_Novel
Un elemento che è presente praticamente in tutti i suoi libri è l’accelerazione iperbolica e comica, che era più evidente nella prima parte della sua produzione e veniva portata all’estremo, senza mescolarsi direttamente con i dilemmi esistenziali, in una serie di opere più completamente parodiche e satiriche (Our Gang, The Breast…).
E va benissimo, ma scattano subito una serie di problemi: la girandola di giochi di parole, invenzioni linguistiche, preziosismi stilistici è spesso praticamente intraducibile; i riferimenti molto puntuali a regole, usi e costumi del baseball in molti casi sono necessari non solo per apprezzare meglio ma proprio per comprendere letteralmente quello che sta succedendo; alcune trovate ironiche, satiriche e grottesche sono divertenti ma trascinate troppo in lungo, fino a perdere ritmo.

Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vn2rg...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017A satirical take on the whole concept of the GAN that may very well be the big White Whale itself. An hilarious comic novel filled with unforgettable characters and episodes, and an entertaining thriller too - not to mention the ways it plays with American, and global, literary history.
Raucous and often extremely funny, The Great American Novel is the story of the forgotten baseball team The Ruppert Mundys as told by former sportswriter and alliteration addict Mr Word Smith - as unreliable a narrator as you will ever encounter and yet his bizarre tale of the conspiracy that destroyed baseball's Patriot League is oddly persuasive.
Roth doesn't hold back one iota.
And yet his wisdom is apparent: the Great American Novel can hardly be anything but pastiche and a lengthy prologue does much to ridicule the other obvious contenders.
A complete, humorous, skewering of Major League Baseball, and by association, the media, politics, even literature, and Americanism in general.
This could only be done so completely by a person who does have a love for the old ballgame.
This is a 1973 work of fiction, about a 1943 Baseball team with its bizarre set of players, coaches, and owners.
All the various jokes, paradoxes, exposures and sarcasm, still work today 2016!
I was greatly amused by it and I think most baseball fans, particularly if you are somewhat familiar with the ‘good old days’, say anywhere from the 1930s-1970s, would find it a goodread.
This book was a godsend after the last Roth novel I read, The Professor of Desire. Whereas that book is overly earnest and self-indulgent The Great American Novel is just pure comic inventiveness. This is Roth's tribute to America: it's culture, language, and politics. The prologue in which the narrator ("Fella name a' Smith. First name a' Word.") meets Hemingway, the midget Bob Yamm's farewell speech, the game between the Rupert Mundys and the asylum inmates, the visit to the "Blue 'n Pink District" (it's not what you think. It's worse.): I just marveled at these brilliantly funny episodes.
Teniendo en cuenta lo anterior, vamos con Philiph Roth, que en 1973 decidió escribir una novela llamada La gran novela americana, con una intencionalidad clara en cuanto a conocimiento del mito y con una subversión manifiesta en cuanto a la forma de presentar el “espíritu americano” y “las maneras y emociones ordinarias del pueblo americano”; se puede ver claramente en dos textos, en el primero de ellos dándole la importancia que se merece el béisbol, ese desconocido que despierta la pasión de los americanos: “Además, era imposible comunicar la esencia del juego con palabras, ya fueran escritas o habladas, ni siquiera con palabras tan poéticas e inspiradas como las que solía pronunciar Míster Fairsmith.
The novel is so soaked in baseball that it might be only baseball lovers or readers that can handle a lot of digressions.Which is what Great American Novels do.
My opinion is that the Great American Novels dig into a certain subject to sidle into their Big Point - which is that America is Batshit Weird.
So why not baseball's history and its players?Roth uses baseball and many allusions to its history to illustrate the many Batshit Weirdnesses of America.
Well, of course, you could always entitle it "The Great American Novel." I haven't read other reviews, and I'll bet others have said this or something like this. Never mind. Won't delete. But. My god, this is a hysterical novel. You've heard of the state of Major League Baseball during WWII, when so many able-bodied young ballplayers were at war that the standards for entry in MLB were lower than? Pete Gray, the one-armed outfielder for the Browns? Joe Nuxhall, who appeared in a game at the age
Well, of course, you could always entitle it "The Great American Novel." I haven't read other reviews, and I'll bet others have said this or something like this.
Well, in this masterpiece of comic exaggeration, Roth creates a third major league, the Patriot League, and populates it with a one-legged catcher, a fifty-one year-old third baseman (named "Kid," naturally) and a circus tent full of other unworthies.
I have a hunch that Roth read The Glory of Their Times the oral history of old-time ballplayers, in researching this book--the dialogue is pitch perfect.
I wish Roth wrote more like this one.

I have a lot of Jewish friends, and most of them are Philip Roth fans.
Some of them are baseball fans.
But none of them have read this book.
I myself am only a half-Jewish baseball fan, but I still managed to enjoy it thoroughly.
Maybe if my mother had been Jewish, I would've given it five out of five, but I thought Roth's ending was hurried and unsuitable, and his satire was a bit scattershot.
Nevertheless, my mother is a nice woman.
She'll probably give you a Snapple or some Diet Coke or something, if you ask for it nicely.
Conseguentemente per il lettore italiano non è affatto difficile (anzi è persino istintivo) tegliere questa maschera dall'immaginaria Patriot league e metterla alla purtroppo reale serie A di calcio: per scoprire con un' amara risata che tutte le storture e le deformazioni di cui Philip Roth si prende gioco si applicano alla pefezione anche al nostro sport organizzato.
It was the third major league up until World War II, and the narrator was a prominent journalist for it.
At the center of this story are the Ruppert Mundys, a team whose owners leased out their stadium for the 1943 season to the war effort and now must play all 154 games as the road team.
I know that it was necessary because of the way it factors into the conclusion that shows just how the Patriot League was supposedly forgotten, but it was never of much consequence to me, and thus the book felt like it was too long.
Time to try again.I didn't remember any of it except a few character names, and then because they're outlandish.
It's not one of Roth's more critically appreciated novels, perhaps.
The attraction for me was that I was in the mood for a baseball novel.
I liked the shiny newness of its originality, and I liked the grit embedded in its hide.It's truly a funny novel.
By the time I came to the end and the theme of the communist subversion within the Patriot League, stand-in for America, I was eager for the end.
i got arrested and i couldn't find a good book in jail to read, and then lo and behold i came across this.
roth, but i never read anything from him, so i read this book and thank you mr.
roth for making my first two weeks in jail bearable.
Wow, even in jail i discovered authors that i really enjoyed.
Last week i went to the local bookstore and stole bout three of his books, this mr.
roth sure is a wonderful writer, just when you think you've read it all, and then the breast comes in, mr.
CF Roland Agni- A 19 year old rookie phenom who led the P-League in batting, but was so arrogant that his Father paid the Mundys to bat him last in the line-up just to "teach him a lesson."The pitching staff consisted entirely of "bald, fat, old" guys, a Mexican named Chico Mecoatl with the "sorest arm in baseball," oh yeah...and a dwarf.This is their story.
The story of how they became a national embarrassment that caused a complete historical whitewashing of an entire major league of baseball.
If you are a baseball fan, you'll like this book.
A more forgiving person might call some of it "dated." On one hand, some of the seemingly boundless sexism, especially in the prologue, seems so over the top that it becomes parody, especially in light of the boys' club that is baseball, sports, and, frequently, vying candidates for the Great American Novel.
If Roth and baseball are in your interests, maybe read the prologue and the first couple of proper chapters.
Chi ha scritto Il Grande Romanzo Americano?
Di questo, e di 'Letteraturia', discutono e si infervorano Word Smith, un ex giornalista sportivo ormai anziano e malato (ma chiamiamolo pure Smitty), e il suo amico Hem (che poi è Hemingway), in un prologo sulla scrittura a dir poco straordinario: acuto, irridente e divertito.
Smitty decide di comporre egli stesso il GRA e ha ben chiaro anche l'argomento, il baseball; parte allora un romanzo nel romanzo scritto da Word Smith-Roth, nel quale si susseguono personaggi originali, divertenti e ottimamente inquadrati, scene spassose e picchi di ironia pungente.
In my current chronological reading of Roth this is my least favorite of his novels.
It starts with a mostly offensive, mostly unnecessary prologue that reads as if written by his satire of Agnew from Our Gang but with the most sexist stuff from Portnoy included as though Roth were satirizing himself already.
The meat of the novel in between the bookends of prologue and epilogue is decent enough, lampooning American sports obsessions, baseball in general, great American novels, and the House Unamerican Activity Committee but there's too much going on with the day to day baseball stuff to land any of his satirical punches cleanly.
Para grandes aficionados al béisbol.
I give up. You really need to like baseball for this one.
be patient, read on]) to confirm, but that doesn't seem like something I want to devote a Sunday hour to), when I was a graduate student in English at the University of Illinois, I taught, under the omnibus rubric of Literature and Experience (Engl 106--kinda scary how clearly I remember stuff from then when I often can't remember while walking upstairs why I needed to walk upstairs), a course titled Baseball in Literature.Now Engl 106, which was meant as forum in which grad students could develop and exercise pedagogical creativity, had several strict requirements, two of which were that the course reading list had to include (1) literature from across the entire era of canonical writing in English and (2) literature from both sides of the Pond separating the two major-league canonical-writing-in-English countries.This presented a bit of a challenge for my course, in that Beowulf is tough to present in terms of Grendel's mother coming in from the bullpen to face the lefty-swinging epic hero, and in fact, even later generations of English literati showed a marked indifference to the great American game.
Eh. A one note joke, that introduces (at the end) a second note of farce. An early scene with Hemingway is outstanding, but even a baseball fan (such as me) got bored.
– E obbedì.Hem gli si accostò e gli puntò la pistola alla mascella.- Ai signori Hawthorne, Melville, Twain et James, presso Facoltà di Literatùr, Vassar College New York.Illustrissimi Defunti, il Grande Romanziere Americano c’est moi.
Firmato: Papa.”Numerose le citazioni disseminate in tutto il libro in un parodistico omaggio alla letteratura classica americana e non, da L’orrore, l’orrore!
Nonostante la massiccia ironia, l’ossatura è costituita dal gioco del baseball, già questa una difficoltà e la traduzione, ahimé, non aiuta: “La pupa del pitcher!
Insomma un grande romanzo americano, operazione riuscita, speriamo vivamente che qualche traduttore capace lo rimaneggi.p.s. grazie a Einaudi è stato fatto
Un romanzo che vale una lettura anche per chi, come me, è assolutamente refrattario al baseball, e conosce questo sport solo tramite il grande schermo.A onor del vero, Il grande romanzo americano si inserisce perfettamente nella scia della precedente opera di Roth, La nostra gang ( o Cosa Bianca nostra, a seconda dell'edizione ), in cui l'autore prendeva satiricamente di mira l'amministrazione Nixon, con un risultato stavolta superiore, a mio avviso.
Only for those who love the game Se non conoscete il baseball, i suoi riti, i suoi miti, le sue illogiche procedure, i suoi complessi meccanismi sarà molto difficile che possiate apprezzare fino in fondo la grandezza e la comicità di questo grandissimo romanzo di Roth.
Word Smith ci parla di un America mitica, forse mai esistita come la Lega Patriota, ma che è innestata dentro le viscere di ogni americano di una certa età - perché il baseball è anche nostalgia di una parte degli USA, non quella dei ghetti dove si gioca a basket, non quella del midwest che vive di football, non quella dei latinos che si dedicano al calcio - quella della middle (e lower) class delle grandi metropoli.
An American novel...definitely.
Think M*A*S*H (yes, I know the book was published in '68, but the movie was released in '70, which helped popularize the book series) or the works of Kurt Vonnegut.
Dry. Not a laugh-out-loud type of humor.
And for me, this didn't work.I have to be up-front.
So...to have a book, full of dry humor around the sport of baseball, probably is not a good choice for me.In large part, though, I had trouble visualizing anyone from this book.
And for that I blame the author.This is my second Philip Roth novel, and so far, I'm not particularly impressed.
After reading this, The Breast and his Nixon book (Our Gang), I decided to skip a lot of his early/middle books and read some more recent ones.Currently reading American Pastoral, which is a masterpiece.
Anyway, I will go back and read some of his earlier output (already read Portnoy's Complaint, the Zuckerman books, etc.) once I finish the books that are recognized as his greatest achievements.IMHO, don't read this unless you are already a big Philip Roth fan and are willing to forgive some nutty excursions.
Hilarous. Almost as much fun as Roth's satiric spoof of Richard Nixon, Our Gang. Titled The Great American Novel because it spoofs what are historically the two "Great American Pastimes": baseball and anti-communism. Don't need to know that much about baseball to enjoy that aspect (personally can't stand the game but still had a blast with the exploits of the fictional Patriot League and it's "homeless" team, the Ruppert Mundy's) but it would help to know something of McCarthyism and the House UnAmerican Affairs Committee to appreciate the rest. Totally ludicrous and I mean that as a compliment.
About 30 years ago I read Roth – as we all did, Portnoy's Complaint – and middle aged New York Jewishness really didn't resonate with an adolescent in small town New Zealand.
A friend recommended recently that I try this, and it's pretty good – but I suspect that it works for me because I now grapple with the history, organisation and politics of sports organisations.
It's a good satire of Organised Baseball, of Cold War politics, of McCarthyism – but I'm afraid that it still doesn't resonate in my middle aged now-in-England non-baseball world.
