https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1843291.The_Green_Eyes_of_Bast
(Dr. Damar Greefe is, in fact, "Eurasian" evil genius in this juicy tale.) Jack Addison is a journalist, not a psychic investigator -- though arguably he has reported on sensational cases (we've little to go on regarding his career), and, finally, he is not coming home from assisting the police.
But quibbles with the erroneous plot summary given here aside, this is classic Sax Rohmer, taut and atmospheric, with not one but two mysteries to unfurl, and so many chestnuts in the proverbial narrative fire that the reader is presented with a pulp fiction feast.
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.The Green Eyes of Bast is yet another non-Fu Manchu novel from the prolific author Sax Rohmer.
There is the worldly but not completely cynical hero (a Westerner of course), the evil/maniacal genius whose villainy drives the plot forward, and the mysticism of Eastern religion or shady organization.
It is here that Addison meets with the Eurasian doctor, Dr. Damar Greefe, an Anglo-Indian physician caring for the invalid Lady Coverly, and much despised by the locals along with his Nubian manservant and the Gypsy groundskeeper of the Park.Alongside the mystery of the murder in the Red House is that of the exotic young woman with the cat-like eyes who follows Addison home from the scene of the murder and steals the statue of Bast from him the following night.
There are no strong, healthy women in Rohmer's fiction, because a strong, healthy woman is a contradiction in terms.Looking back on it, The Green Eyes of Bast could be seen as a precursor to the Noir tradition.
Sax Rohmer's "The Green Eyes of Bâst" (free for Kindles) is a fast paced mystery which contains all of the mysterious elements of the classical mystery: the naive hero, the mysterious women, dark nights and a lonely house, the "mad doctor," a mysterious car, Scotland Yard and, of course, a body found in a crate.
Several of the first Fu Manchu novels are also available for free on the Kindle or search out the actual books in used bookstores - they are worth the time to discover the great, intellectual (and stereotypical) evil genius who is Fu Manchu.
A faced paced quasi supernatural thriller.
A solid but not always all that compelling early supernatural tale from Sax Rohmer.
Kind of a guilty pleasure . . . a real hardboiled genre detective novel repleate with jaded detective, beautiful ex girlfriend bethrothed to another man, gratuitous Asian stereotype Fu Manchu like villain.
I kind of enjoy reading this book. Who can resist a mysterious cat woman :-)
I will definitely be reading more of Sax Rohmer! I really enjoyed this book!
This is a really convoluted mystery (writing as well as plot). I actually loved it, but I think it's an acquired taste. From the author of the Fu Manchu tales.
read some time in 1988
