https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/804698.Black_Girl_Lost
The sad part is, the girl has potential, evidenced by her taking the initiative to secure a job to take care of herself and choosing not to steal to obtain things she wants.
I read this book in about 2 1/2 hours, couldn't put it down.
It's just a well-written, but typical tale of life on the mean streets.
Although it's a street tale, there's not a whole lot of unnecessary violence,cursing, and slang in an effort to make it seem more credible.
I would read more Goines for my urban tale fix, rather than some of the more modern writers.
I read this book in one day -- and I worked and had an evening activity!
I haven't read a book in a day in years.
This is a story that deals with such extreme poverty that an 8 year old doesn't eat for 5 days, and how the sale of drugs is connected to violent crime.I wish I had time to go through the novels I've read and summarize the moral code of the people at the heart of the book.
Many who are in prison because of drugs will recognize Chink's moral code.
I thought the book was an excellent read...Straight to the point, but at the same time thought provoking. It pushed me through the pages and kept me wanting more until the ending. I highly recommend to readers who want a taste of the urban jungle...
So you know this lost black girl will have a bad end before you ever crack the spine.
Goines was a Detroit-born, heroin-addicted thief, smuggler, pimp and numbers runner, but at the same time he was aware enough to paint a picture of purity and innocence that was his character Sandra, and how her life could have been beautiful if not for the scourge that fed on her family and community.
And because of that I think this is important reading for any young person intrigued by black urban culture and the temptations of easy money.
My heart went out to Sandra from the very beginning as she was often left alone by her drunken mother to fend for herself.
Sandra endured many things a young girl or any child her age should never have to.
Chink an outcast of sorts had a hustle of his own as a means of survival.
Sandra witnessed an unexpected incident which ultimately led her to Chink.
Soon thereafter, Sandra and Chink became an unlikely couple with a common bond, the struggle of surviving lives of poverty.
Although this story takes place back in the day, Sandra proves to be the epitome of a 'ride or die' chick.
Hmmmmm.
I have never read this author before.
From what I have gleaned from google, he was a street hustler back in the 70's and then became a best selling author by writing stories about what what he knew and what he saw around him.
So...this isn't light reading, but the fact he lived on the streets in the 70's is maybe why I thought the dialog sounded like HuggyBear.This is a story that brings about awareness.
This felt more real than fiction because of the tragic circumstances that exist forcing others to navigate through them for survival's sake, often becoming victims and even perpetrators of the same crimes themselves.
I read this book over a dozen times. I doubt it'll mean to me at 3? (A lady keeps her secrets close!) what it meant to me at 16--when you would've had to pry it from my cold dead hands to separate me from it.....
This particular book talks about the life of a young black girl, Sandra, who lives a poor life with her mother.
There was this one day where Sandra did not know where her mother was so she went to look for her and this man was at the brink of raping her, until he thought about it.
Later on in the story she falls in love with Chink who is a friend at school who is also poor, and they sell drugs together.
While in jail, Sandra was approached and beat by two men involved with another drug dealer, which infuriated Chink so he planned to escape.
Donald Goines’s stories are very powerful, Sundara's mother was so selfish that she couldn’t see her crying out for attention. At sixteen Sundara meets a young man Cink who just like her raised in the hood poor, Cink protected her with his life because they were all each other had. I loved this book, Sandra is the real definition of a survivor.
Im not the biggest donald goines fan. Yes, I've read all his books. All of his books are basically the same and thats what I dont like. However, this one stood out. I really enjoyed this book. I loved the relationship between the two characters. It's like an urban cross between Romeo and Juliet and Bonnie and Clyde.
Just read Black Girl Lost by Donald Goines - AKA Def Hood Ghetto Realism - this mofo can write, for real. About a young girl raised on the streets; shoplifter to quazi mastermind of her first-love, tough-as-nails, high school pusher. He gets some time in the joint, she gets beat up by some dopefiends, he breaks out and gets his revenge.. Happily ever after.
Listening to this I kinda had the same emotions I felt watching 'The Inevitable Defeat of Mister and Pete'. Right from the beginning there is a young child in danger and it's just this slow creeping dread and heartbreak for what you know is, well, inevitable.This is my first Goines book and it is so raw and real. Won't be my last book by Goines.
I'm not a fan of urban fiction, but this one was gritty and decent. He was repetitive with his words, but I tolerated it. This was a love story, just a really sad and effed up one.
2nd read for this classic and it was just as great this time as the first.
This story was so raw and gritty.
I loved Sandra's survival instinct, drive and heart.
She probably could have made better decisions and had a different outcome but she probably didn't know any other way and she seemed to be working in the here and now, no time to put in for an result that wouldn't come right away.
This was my first book by the late Donald Goines and it was a page turner!
Not sure if there's any more to Sandra's story but I'd read it if it's out there.
But I plan to read other work by Mr. Goines.

This book was decent. It kept my interest and reminded me of some of my students. Sometimes it's difficult to imagine how life can be completely different through another persons eyes based on their life experience. One thing about this book that I really appreciated was that Goines gave a raw, gritty, unfiltered view into 1970s low socioeconomic urban life. The ending seemed a bit far-fetched, but it left room for a part two. I would recommend the book.
One of the best books I've ever read. I loved it! Donald Goines was a beast. Sandra and Chink were a old school version of Bonnie & Clyde. Their relationship was one of a kind. Wish there was a sequel so I could see what happened after the end of the book. Will definitely have to read more from this author.
Donald Goines is who introduce me to a whole new category of books, when I was 12 years old I would go to the library and check out his books, and read them late at night. He is the father of Urban literacy.
This is where it kind of started for me with the reading with sex in it that is.. This book was dark in a sense a put some light on certain issues I had no clue about. However, this author was amazing to me and I've read several of his books.
This was a great book. His descriptions pulled you into the book. I felt so closely connected to the characters. The ending is heart- wrenching. I've never cried or had so much emotion flowing through me reading any book. I loved this!!! One of my favorite authors!!!
This was a good book, young couple in love trying to make it through all obstacles. Young black Romeo and Juliette, I really enjoyed it.
I do not know if this type of situation pushes forward stealing and drug pushing in most cases but it is a eye opener for survival, loyalty and love.
I seriously felt like I was in the story with the characters. I love the way Donald writes.
2.5 ⭐Was this supposed to be this short?
I randomly picked this to read I mean listen to this morning because I N E E D E D an audiobook + this book is narrated by Bahni Turpin (who I love) so I decided to check it out from the library.
This story follows a girl named Sundra starting at the age of 8.
Her mom is a drunk.
Sundra always have to fend for herself.
That’s basically the gist of the story.
She meets a boy , get into things and things go downhill from there.
It was a pretty fast book.
I randomly picked this to read I mean listen to this morning because I N E E D E D an audiobook + this book is narrated by Bahni Turpin (who I love) so I decided to check it out from the library.
This story follows a girl named Sundra starting at the age of 8.
Sundra always have to fend for herself.
That’s basically the gist of the story.
It was a pretty fast book.
I wish it was longer actually & I found myself blanking out and not paying attention at times so that’s why it’s a 2 star from me.
I thought I would know how this would go, but I was only half right.
This felt very real and very familiar although I wasn't bored by it and it definitely wasn't predictable.
I think this made me more sad than anything and that's why I dropped the star.
Even though, I know the streets will gobble you up whole then pluck you from its teeth, it doesn't stop me from wanting to save all the girls and all the boys.
This was definitely a good read, so I'll be getting to the other books of his shortly.
I know I read Donald Goines as a teen but have no memory whatsoever of anything I read by him. I'm starting over with Black Girl Lost and have to say I was hooked after the first paragraph. His writing is action packed and intense. I can't wait to work my way through his catalog. Of course Bahni Turpin (one of my favorite narrators) brings the words to life and has the listener spellbound with her ability to voice many different characters without confusing you.
I give it a 4.5/5 stars. I was captivated from the moment I picked it up. A strong, no-holds barred coming of age story. Riveting. This book is not for the faint of heart. It is dark and violent and has multiple triggers. I appreciated the multiple point of views from the different characters. I'm eager to read more of Goines books.
This book was very depressing! While some may find it very honest and revealing of life in the ghetto, I thought it too violent to describe "real" life. Perhaps, that is just my wishing that life is not as described in this short novel. And then again, maybe I am right.
If you ever saw the movie with Sean Penn, called Bad Boys from the 80's (https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/bad_...), I found this story to be similar. Very different yet similar occurrences. What a great story of pure sacred love and heart break.
