https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817982.Stone_Fox
Oh, that ending! As you read you know how you want it to end, and then you think you know how it will end, and the moment arrives and your heart just stops!A story of love, courage, community, and determination building in gradual suspense towards its emotional end.
My oldest grandson Philip (age 10, the same age as Willy, the protagonist of this very short kid's chapter book) is an avid reader who reads above grade level, an interest I obviously encourage.
The idea that Willy's beloved 10-year-old sled dog Searchlight could be a serious contender in a race like this isn't implausible; Gardiner ably brings out the facts that she was extremely fast and that both dog and boy knew the course well and ran it frequently, while he also makes the points that a one dog sled is lighter and less awkward to handle than the more cumbersome outfits of the adult mushers and their teams.
We are getting more of that of late...she is unimpressed by my reading piles and I love that she wants to share the books she enjoys with me.
This was a book her third-grade teacher read aloud to the class this year.
Little Willy is one tough kid, and who doesn't want a dog like Searchlight?
Beyond that, though, is the underlying story of love and hope.
For me, this was a story about how we can learn from the children in our lives, and it's a reminder of Jesus's admonition to be like children.
At first, I thought this will be just another little sweet and happy ending story, which is all time Americans' favorite (like all the Disney stories).
But as I read through, I was in such a shock I couldn't even think straight.
But the most shockingly, when searchlight's heart just bursted and died instantly right before finishing his race, my brain felt like it bursted as well.
The way Gardiner wrote the book about the race was so compelling and intensive that I couldn't stop reading a line after another.
After finishing the book, this shocking yet touching story was not forgetable.
Book Review: Stone Fox by John Reynolds GardinerI read this book aloud to my kids today, and let me tell you.
Except this time, Bubs (nearly 7) wasn't rolling his eyes.
Willy is determined to make everything better by harvesting the potato crop.When that doesn't help matters, Willy discovers a debt that his grandfather owes for $500.
Against all odds, Willy enters a dog-sled race, where he'll compete against the best racers in the country, including the huge Indian, Stone Fox, who has never lost a race.
Will his determination and courage be enough?As mentioned, this book is a tear-jerker.
I have read this book 3 times (once with each of my daughters and now with my 2nd grade students) and each time I am a complete emotional wreck by the end. This short chapter book really tugs at the heartstrings and leaves so much to feel and discuss.
While I read it aloud to my class, I had a lot of doubts.
The writing is fine, but I was not thrilled with the story’s glumness.
Now there are details at the end and throughout I must savour and mull over, such as Stone Fox's actions.
I’m thinking about the entire story because of that ending, and that’s a great effect to achieve despite the restraints on word choice, syntax, etc.
As I read, I swore up and down (in my head, of course) that I would not read this aloud again next year, but I’ve changed my mind.
Don, Celeste, and I cried like babies when we read this together, many years ago. We still remember Stone Fox as one our fondest reading memories. Go, Searchlight, go!
It was really good. This was about teaching people to care for others and try to help them work things out. Willie tried helping out his grandfather and did everything he could. The ending was sad, but I still liked it a lot. Searchlight was Willie's dog, and she worked hard for him. She ran too fast, and it hurt her heart. You will love this book as much as me.
It is sad but i don't want to spoal it
Once the race starts he gets a good headstart, despite the fact that he has Stella and Stone Fox has 5 beautiful Samoyeds (a type of dog) who are very fast.
But slowly and steadily Stone Fox advances on Billy until they're neck and neck.
Suddenly Billy's dog Stella dies.
Stone Fox draws a line in the snow and tells all the other racers not to cross the line or he will shoot them.
Then he tells Billy to cross the finish line.
Billy carries Stella across the finish line and saves the farm and his grandfather; a bittersweet ending.
I give this 4 stars, but my 6 year old son would give it 5. His whole face dropped at the end, and I thought he would say it was too sad, but he immediately asked if we could read it again!
This book is short and sweet. I can see why children might love it, but at the same time I should have realized that any book with a dog on the cover (view spoiler)[ is going to end sadly. I guess I'm a sort-of reading masochist in that sense. I probably should have picked a better time to read the ending than over my lunch break at work. (hide spoiler)]It's written in very easy language and would be something wonderful for a parent to share with their child. I sometimes like to go back and read
This book is short and sweet.
I can see why children might love it, but at the same time I should have realized that any book with a dog on the cover (view spoiler)[ is going to end sadly.
I guess I'm a sort-of reading masochist in that sense.
I probably should have picked a better time to read the ending than over my lunch break at work.
(hide spoiler)]It's written in very easy language and would be something wonderful for a parent to share with their child.
Not into children's books?
Just realize that the vocabulary and reading level may be not what you are used to.
I'm into children's books of many types because I am a teacher.But it's decent historical fiction, coming of age writing.
It would be like reading a short story to most of you.Little Willie, the main character, will touch your heart.
And since it was written at a young person's level, it was really a fast read.
It might just wind up on your favorites list for a short read.
Willy’s grandfather has always cared for him.
But now it’s Willy’s turn and he’ll do anything he can to bring his grandfather's mind back from the brink.
Unfortunately someone else needs that money too.
So how will need and luck play out?The story pulls the reader in right from the start.
The end of the race stays in doubt until the final pages as words fly by.Tragic, beautiful and kind, Stone Fox is a story to linger in the mind of young readers, inspiring questions, thought and hope.Disclosure: A good friend knew I’d love it and she was right.
Personal Reflection - I chose to read this book because I’d seen it being used in the classroom when I was subbing as a Para.
Each and every single student, boys and girls alike, were thoroughly enjoying the book and from what little I’d learned about it while there, I just knew I had to add it to my list of future reads.
The book was easy to relate to and certainly pulled at my heartstrings.
This book could serve many lessons.
It would be great for lessons on character traits, story elements, literary devices, and personal connections (text-to-self, text-to-world, text-to-text).
A must add book to my classroom bookshelves.
And what happened to poor Little Willy's parents in the first place??
He has the strain of working the farm by himself (at the age of ten!) and then he uses his college money to enter a race that he might loose because of Stone Fox, a Shoshone Indian who has never lost a race!
Then poor little Willy gets smacked by this dude and ends up with a black eye!
The poor kid then kills his dog from the strain of trying to win.
At least Stone Fox had a heart and let Willy win, but I feel bad for him as well - trying to buy back the lands that were taken from his people by "the white man."
It is sad at the end but it is a really good book.
well I have not read all of it but its real good I think you would like it.
This is a great little story about courage and determination and love.
My own experiences with mental health gave me insight and compassion to Grandfather's condition, and (as cliche as it sounds) having a close relationship with my own dog gave a personal element to Willy's relationship with Searchlight.What struck me the most about this story, however, is the unexpected respect and humanity with which Stone Fox, a Native American man, is portrayed.
But (spoiler ahead) Stone Fox is the hero of this story - he saves the white man from the white man.
It was beautiful to finally see respect given to a Native American character and was probably 50% of the reason I cry whenever reading this story.
She totally gave away the ending, which otherwise I think would have come as a total shock.
I feel a little silly giving a children's book only two stars, but I think that it could have had a bit more development, a bit more to it and still be a suitable book for young kids.
It just felt really bare bones and there wasn't a lot to it.The two main things it has going for it:Length - super short, quick read.Ending - powerful enough that I went back and read the last chapter again.
Review blurb for work:A beautiful story about a little boy who refuses to give up and the dog who is his constant companion. Be aware, though, that this is a "dog book," so expect some tears! Though the book is much shorter and simpler, this might be a good one for those who enjoy "Where the Red Fern Grows" or "Woodsong."
Such a sad and beatiful story very touching. Read this in third grade as a read aloud. Loved it so much that I bought the book and I stilll continue to re-read it.
Wow, was not expecting that ending. What a tearjerker.
It was a very interesting book
I really liked this book. It was very inspiring. I like how the author made the little boy look weak in the beginning and then make him stronger by the end of the book. I like how they showed people chnanging throuout the book without giving any hints that they would. For example when all the people think the boy and dog won't win they end the story with a heartwarming and sad ending. Very sad but happy book. Other people should read this book.
Just sad.
This story makes me cry like no other, and I've cherished it since I was a kid.
I love this book because it is a story about perseverance and love.If you had a kid this a wonderful book for them the ending is sad but beautiful I totally recomend this book.
