https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8137.The_Road_to_Yesterday
And whilst most of the featured stories have indeed previously appeared in The Road to Yesterday, and the first story (Some Fools and a Saint) in Among the Shadows: Tales from the Darker Side, the tales are for the most part abridged in these books (and often quite significantly shortened at that), but in The Blythes are Quoted they are shown as they supposedly appear in the manuscript that was presented to L.M. Montgomery's publisher on the very day of her death (which now appears to have been due to a drug overdose which might very likely have been deliberate).
Furthermore, The Blythes are Quoted is in my opinion an absolute must-read for L.M. Montgomery fans (but regrettably, for some reason, the book does not seem to be all that readily available in the United States or Europe).
I did enjoy reading the timeless, fanciful tales of old love triangles, family feuds and poor orphans, but my thoughts and feelings toward The Blythes Are Quoted are complicated.
After having read all of LMM's works, it was a bit like enjoying one more day with a loved one who had already passed away.
The references to the Blythes are a bit like plums in the middle of a pudding (which a university professor once said to me about an abominable essay of mine).
Don't misunderstand me, I enjoyed The Blythes Are Quoted immensely.
Also, "The Blythes are Quoted" has a large number of amazing poems that are attributed to Anne and Walter Blythe, along with dialogue between the family members.
Anne Shirley Blythe makes a habit of reading poems aloud in the evenings, sometimes her own and sometimes Walter's, and then the family discusses them.
Those who are disappointed in the later books in the series, because Anne happens to grow up are being foolish.
"Rilla of Ingleside" is one of the best books that LMM ever wrote and Anne and Gilbert Blythe are still a strong presence in the story.
One can tell that L.M. Montgomery was thereby doing what was expected of her by giving the public more Blythes, however indirectly.Some of the stories are very sweet, but as I said, you can get them in "The Road to Yesterday." The only story that is NOT in that volume is the first one, which is a pretty creepy, dark tale (that ends up with a reasonable explanation), but which had an ending I disliked.The other bits that are exclusive to "The Blythes Are Quoted" are the interludes that describe Anne reading her own and Walter's poems to her family at Ingleside, and then usually two or three of the family offer a brief remark on the poem.
L.M. Montgomery died in 1942, so that sense of uncertainty and failure was the last thing she knew.
There's even a kind of unpleasantness, which I don't think is as present in her novels:-Older single women are sad and laughable creatures, the word "poisonous" is even used about them (this usually comes from the other characters more than the narrative, but the narrative pushback is very mild for the most part, except for the very last story in this book).-The men in her stories really really like to bang the "isn't that just like a silly weak woman" drum.
There are a couple new short stories but the majority of the new content is a framing devise: the Blythes sharing poetry together and having brief discussions.
The book is divided into two parts, a before WWI section and an after WWI section, and the second half is much darker and sad.
The poetry in the first part is all by Anne, but in the second it is by Walter Blythe (written before his death) and also much sadder ones by Anne.
Some Fools and a Saint is also a neat story, a well told mystery that also examines the darker side of human nature.
This collection of Montgomery's short stories is not really her best work in my opinion, but still well worth the read.
All the stories are connected distantly to Gilbert and Anne Blythe, since characters in each story are vaguely acquainted with the Blythes, and their names are mentioned in passing, or they play bit parts in the story.
A few of the short stories had some structural problems in the plots, I though, and a couple of times people in the story seemed to act out of character.
As mentioned in the Afterword, many of the short stories in this book were previously published in magazines and newspapers, and Montgomery edited them to fit them into this book, which explains why some of the references to the Blythe family and their friends didn't feel entirely organic.
The editor's comments in the Afterword are definitely worth reading, and it was interesting to learn about the publication history of this book, and people's perceptions of the changes in Montgomery's writing.
Although I'm sad to have closed the final chapter in Anne's life, I'm glad that I still have many of Montgomery's other books left to read, as well as her short stories, poems and other writings.
Review to come.
I believe I purchased this book on PEI, after a long day of running along the cliffs and filling my heart with poetry.
The sheer volume of sentimentality reading this book has flooded my soul with...The Blythes are Quoted takes place half after Rainbow Valley, and half after Rilla of Ingleside.
Interspersed with these stories are poems by Anne, Walter, or both, read aloud to the family, and with each of the family's mental and verbal responses recorded.
After WWI the poetry takes a darker turn, as (view spoiler)[Walter's death (hide spoiler)] is remembered.
What delightful stories of love and plot twists always ending in the orphan getting the Home he wanted and the right match being made. The Blythes are always everybody’s favorite family, and it’s fun to read about them in the short mentions of them in each different story. My favorite story is the man who was afraid his brother was going to propose to a certain woman so he kidnaps her and puts her up in a house on an island, and in taking care of her he falls in love with her himself!! 😂❤️
I can't even find the words.... This is LMM's 9th Anne book that was not published until 2008. What an experience it was for me to read this over the last week or so.Again.... I just can't find the words.“We lost our son, Anne, as did many others, but we have our memories of him and souls cannot die. We can still walk with Walter in the spring.” Gilbert to Anne― L.M. Montgomery, The Blythes are Quoted
Really creepy...The Twins Pretend4 starsSweet but it really is a repetitive and kind of odd theme of misunderstandings between lovers and years and years of separation.Fancy's Fool3.5 stars A garden of shadows and ghosts.
Interesting but kind of odd and a tad creepy.A Dream Come True2.5As a nightmare.
An old love turns out to be a lunatic and the desired adventurous life not so desirable.Penelope Struts Her Theories2.5The concept is nice but somehow I didn't like the story itself.Reconciliation2Ooookeeeey.
Identical looking cousins seem to be common.A Commonplace Woman4An old maid who is on her deathbed recollects her life.
The short stories deal with a lot of heartache and despair and knowing now more about Maud's life and marriage, they are probably a bit more honest that a lot of her work.
If you don't want to know the real Maud, and just want to remember her via Anne Shirley, I'd suggest not reading these.
I'm repeating myself here, but if you are a die hard Montgomery fan and know her true history, you will love this, but if you prefer to just stay in Green Gables, I wouldn't read this one.
Not quite in the league of the Anne-of-Green-Gables books, but this is a rather enjoyable collection of shorter stories of Prince Edward Island people loosely connected with the Blythe family. Who hardly appear themselves, sadly. But L. M. Montgomery is one good storyteller.
Because it was unbelievably boring.So seven years later, I re-read the Anne of Green Gables series and decided I really wanted to know what happened to my favourite characters after the series ended.
IF THEY'RE SO AWESOME YOU CAN'T GO TWO SENTENCES WITHOUT MENTIONING THEM, WHY AM I NOT READING ABOUT THEM?And for awhile, I pushed through these stories, because I figured that once I got into the second part, which was set after the end of the series, it might be a bit more Blythe-oriented and I might get a bit more information.
I never felt like I was reading Anne or Walter's writing, it was always L.M. Montgomery's poems.
I wish I could give this book more than five stars. Truly beautiful. Completely indescribable. The last poem and story sent chills all through me.
Actually, in a fair number of them the Blythes are loathed, which feels strange – and, to LMM's credit, is not necessarily an indicator of whether we ought to like the character doing the loathing.
Some are bad 'uns – but not all.Oh, Walter.There are some strange patterns in the stories collected in The Blythes Are Quoted.
I don't think that mystery has ever been solved." "Susan, to herself:-'I could tell them the story of that fiddle if I liked.
'In about twenty years or so I'll be pretty well over it,' she said") and pathos (not always a bad thing) and solid story-telling.
I was not a fan of the format - stories, poems and commentary - but to have this new perspective on Anne & her family, and Montgomery's views of the world, is priceless.Note that this version is unedited and unabridged, so as to better reflect Montogmery's final writings.
Notes in the afterword indicate many of the poems and stories were pre-written, then adapted to form this final commentary on the Blythe family, which helps to explain some of it.In short, don't expect another Anne-book, but if you are looking for more detail on their lives after the war, after Walter dies, you really must read it.
This is an interesting mix of stories and poems -- the stories involve people who know Anne and Gilbert Blythe's family, but they aren't actually in the stories.
The poems are by Anne and her son Walter, and we get to hear the family's thoughts and reactions for them, which was by far what I liked best about the book.
The tone of the poetry overall was one of regret and loss, a wishful look back at a happier time.This is not a cheerful book.
But overall it has a feel of disenchantment that did not appeal to me.
This book is L.M. Montgomery's last installment in the Anne of Green Gables series.
I can see why it was never published before.
Its format is unusual: short stories (in which the Blythes don't play a big part but are frequently quoted) interspersed with poems by Anne and Walter Blythe (each poem is followed by its discussion by the Blythes).
The book covers the time from before World War I until World War II.
I have to admit I skipped most of the poetry, but I enjoyed the short stories—I think they are better than some of L.M. Montgomery's other short story collections.
I enjoyed most of these short stories.
There was only the one written from the point of view of the guests at a wedding that was hard to read.
It was rather annoying reading people's thoughts, which were mostly very superficial and judgmental.
The other stories were vey nice, if perhaps a bit predictable.
;) I never thought I'd say this, though, but it did get very annoying how Mrs. Dr.
Blythe was refered to as such a wonderful person in every story, but she wasn't a character in any of them.
Was there NO ONE ELSE these people looked up to?
What a delightful trip back to Prince Edward Island! One must be familiar with the Blythes'/Ingleside's history in order to fully appreciate these stories; they did indeed provide good moments of poignancy and laughter. To see Rilla of Ingleside's story taking place in the background was quite a touch.
The tales run chronologically from about the time of Anne of Ingleside up to the Second World War. I thought that I had read most of Montgomery's short stories long ago, but I seem to have missed this collection.
Though I didn't absolutely love any of them, I found some of the stories enjoyable, some mediocre, and some I outright disliked.
In general, I find that some aspects of Montgomery's writing have not aged well, and this is most obvious in short stories, where the plot is less complex and I'm less likely to be attached to the characters.
The manuscript for this book was turned in to Montgomery’s publisher the day before her death.
I spread the reading of it out over a couple of years.Readers of Montgomery’s short stories will recognize the storyline in several here that were published in an edited form in other compilations of her short stories.
It gives brief glimpses of the Blythe family in their later years.
Darker themes are addressed here than in earlier works, and it gives insight to Montgomery’s state of mind at the end of her life.
I was sad when the book came to a close.
Much as I love anything that L.M. Montgomery wrote if I hear anything more about the Blythes   even this kind of Blythes I swear I'm going to
One of my favorite of LM Montgomery's short story collections.
Despite the arrangement of the book into before-WWI and after-WWI there are several nonsensical dates, especially noticable in the final story "The Road to Yesterday" where characters in their late twenties in the second World War yet talk about being childhood friends with Anne's grandchildren, who could at most have been in their late teens/very early twenties in 1942.The short stories themselves are not particularly special, especially since the Rea Wilmshurst compilations began coming out (Akin to Anne, Along the Shore) that highlight the repeated plots and tropes tht Montgomery used.
Mainly because it is a collection of short stories set on the same island as the "Anne of Green Gables" series, in which the Blythes are mentioned, even if only as side characters.
The poems on the other hand, which Anne reads to her family in the interludes inbetween the short stories - I'm a big fan.
Most of them had the same cozy feel as the original book series has for me, and they're the main reason this was a 4-star read for me after all.
The book contains 15 short stories that reference the Blythe family.
Poems attributed to Anne and Walter and commentary from the family loosely weave together the stories.Publishers sat on the book for 30 years.
This version left out all of the family's commentary, removed one of the stories (later published in another short story collection), removed all but one of the poems, reordered the stories, and removed material from some of the stories.
The book ends with "The Aftermath", a grim poem about death and war that Walter wrote just before his death.
The later poem sets up the dialog that ends the book.
