https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827276.Travel_Light
This was published in 1952, before Lord of the Rings in 1954.This really ought to stand alongside The Hobbit and Harry Potter and other such tales to be read as one grows up.
For some reason it doesn’t and its remarkable author is not considered part of the canon.Mitchison lived to be 101 and her life and the scope of her interests and activities is quite remarkable.
Travel Light is the tale of Halla, born to a king but cast out to die, she is raised first by bears and then by a dragon.
Halla deals deftly with the usual male desire to tie her to home and hearth and continues to travel light.
Perhaps it was better for her in the end than being a king’s child.”“That was never the story,” said Modolf.“Forget the story,” said Halla.(139)And indeed it was never the story, just as Travel Light is not a simple children's book.
It is about 'traveling light' in a muddled and muddied world, defining your own destiny and in the process finding yourself.Indeed the story moves with Halla's narrative.
As the tale which did not provide a clear span and flow of time (for it would seem that a hundred, thousand years even, have come to past) comes to a close, Halla is seen as a mythic figure herself and the nature of the narrative ends where it starts, Nordic mythology.
I came across this because of Amal El-Mohtar's NPR review; the idea of a book in dialogue with Tolkien, by one of the women around him who he encouraged and listened to, definitely appealed: I think just recently I was asking if anyone's written anything about Tolkien's female students, about whom I know very little except that I'm sure I have been told they existed.
I don't think she honestly ever pushes any moral except finding your way through life and being good to people and creatures, and in the meantime she has an intriguing wander through different cultures and traditions.Mitchison is a lot less sure than Tolkien about the period and the people she wants to write about, I think.
It was about ideas, and values, and how the books we read in childhood worm their way into our conscious (and conscience) and affect us years and decades down the line--and it was a cry to reject that, to examine our received beliefs and rebuild them anew.
And as to story, well."That was never the story," said Modolf."Forget the story," said Halla.In short, this is a book about letting go, of accepting that nothing--not material things, not values or beliefs, not hatreds ("It is difficult to keep one's enemies") or even friendships--will serve you forever.
Mitchison blends Nordic myth with her personal perception of early Christianity, adding a pinch of fairy tale to tell the story of Halla, an unwanted child of the king's first marriage who is rescued by a were-bear nurserymaid (like they do) and begins a life of wandering.I've always wondered how these fairy tale kings can run a kingdom and fight battles and such, and yet are totally unable to stand up to their second wives.
It's not about waiting for some marvellous event that will make everything wonderful and start a new life for you; it's about kindness to those around us and living each day.
I thought this was a bit twee at first but got into it after a while, and ended up liking it a lot. The point at which it gets really good is when she leaves the dragons, and when she meets the men from Marob and what happens to them. And the Valkyries and All-Father and the abrupt-feeling revelation at the end that giants and dragons are getting scarce -- loved it. It had a numinousness it's hard to find in fantasy, though one goes to fantasy precisely for that.
Absolutely stunning. I loved the ripping pace of it and the sparkling prose. Every once in a while, a phrase would be so perfectly expressed that it would just stop me in my tracks. Wonderful book, deserving of its high praise. I wish it were better known.
Halla seems cursed (or blessed) by the gods to find herself in new places and adapting to them before she must leave again, to forever "traveling light" with only the lessons she's picked up to help her on her way.NPR was right, and Travel Light is an interesting entry in fantasy literature.
Not like bears or dragons at all.Sadly this is where the story starts to go off the rails, as Halla's allegorical tale gets overshadowed by a nonallegorical story about her delegate friends learning how much empires and institutions suck.
I must admit that I don't ordinarily read books with elements of magic to them (with the exception of Harry Potter, of course), but I read the first page whilst I should have been looking for thesis-applicable tomes, and felt that it sounded rather promising.I had earmarked it to be an inclusion in the final Dewey's 24-Hour Readathon which I will be taking part in (largely because when in the process of PhD studies, your entire life often feels like a readathon in itself), but ended up reading the first three chapters the night before because I was too intrigued to let it lie until morning.
An amazing fantasy story that was beautifully written. It has certainly made me want to seek out more of Naomi Mitchison's work
Someone must have recommended it, because it's a slim little volume, first published sixty years ago, and there's nothing about it that might have caught my eye.
Whoever suggested it--maybe a Facebook friend--deserves my thanks!Naomi Mitchison lived to be 101, according to the cover information, and published dozens of books.
I told you it was hard to categorize!)The story of a princess being cast out as an infant feels familiar to those of us who thrive on fairy tales, but shortly into the story you know you're going on a different journey.
I don't think there is another book like it.
Está tan lindo!!!! Super recomendable, lectura rápida y entretenida. Para los amantes de la fantasía es un must de los clásicos...
Sweet and charming, but didn’t find it as meaningful as others have.
Interesting, especially with backgrounds and parallel to Tolkien Style
A quick easy read however I found the middle of the story a little long winded and slightly boring. The beginning and end of the book were written well and I found these parts interesting.
I was introduced to this author (like most people who've found her, I think) through her association with Tolkien, but if I hadn't known that, I'd have believed it to be a much more recent work.
I had no need to adjust my reading to allow for more stylized or "literary" prose the way I've had to with Tolkien in the past, and particularly the way the story takes Halla's independence and self-sufficiency for granted...
This is an uncommonly pleasant read in that genre - the story of a girl raised by bears, and then dragons, and her journey to find her place in the world.
This story of an endangered young princess--rescued by bears and then raised among dragons--soon becomes an episodic quest tale ranging from the Mediterranean to Scandinavia and addressing the transition from paganism to Christianity. The central themes are adaptability and the evolution of imagination.The first 50 pages of this unusual young adult fantasy are marvelous; unfortunately, things become a bit murky after that. The Norse mythology stuff is best: the Valkyrie character and the scene with Odin. Even though this is a book I doubt I’d ever read a second time, I’m looking forward to seeking out other Mitchison novels.
Travel Light is basically a subversive fairy tale about a princess who's cast out to live with bears, and then dragons, and then humans as she goes on her own hero's quest.
In some ways it's also a cautionary tale against kings and heroes, who are nothing but self-entitled men who steal and kill and do terrible things with the terrifying certainty that they're in the right.
Mostly, though, it's about traveling light and choosing your own destiny.
It's a short, light read, but surprisingly denser and more nuanced than you'd expect.
Not really sure exactly what I think of this book - I'm guessing that it is more for a younger audience, but I don't think I would have liked it a whole lot more if I'd read it as a kid.
I was enjoying the story well enough while it seemed to be going somewhere - Halla travels through the world and All-Father tells her to travel light, so she does...
but then the book just ends when if it had followed Halla as she becomes a Valkyrie it seems like it would have been an even better book.
With the way it ended though I feel a bit of a letdown.
Delightful fairy tale narrative with big themes of shapeshifting and migration, starring a delightful female protagonist. Definitely recommend this to readers who enjoyed Patricia Wrede's Dragons series!
It was like the stories my dad would make up for me before bed time. It was great back then, but I'm not 4 and I like a plot that makes sense. Maybe ok for kids.
Weird, random, dreamy, melancholy. Great ending.
(Read on recommendation by Rose Lemberg and Amal El-Mohtar.) Such a pleasant surprise. I have a feeling it skewed my standards re: children's books, now everything will seem less awesome...
It wasn’t till I read Elizabeth Longford’s Introduction (after the story itself) that I realised this is a sequel (of sorts) to Mitchison’s The Corn King and the Spring Queen - apparently the best historical novel of the twentieth century (https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-en...) - which is on my tbr pile but a much bulkier volume than this one so I had passed on it as yet.
The bulk of the book is spent in this environment where Halla learns to navigate the ways of the human world, realising among other things that the emperor is merely a man not the near-mythical entity she had previously supposed.
Halla is a human girl, (view spoiler)[born royal but immediately cast out; raised initially by bears she has bearish values, for food, play, shelter -- physical enjoyments.
(hide spoiler)] There are quite obviously parallels between this and the way men (especially at the time Mitchison was writing) argued that women were not really real thinking humans, and both encouraged them to aspire to male rationality and constantly reminded them that they were mere ornaments who could never actually achieve these qualities.
(hide spoiler)]All of that, and it also just a very good, enjoyable book.
I have so many things I want to say about it, but I'm not sure they'd come out right, and anyway, I think the best way to understand how special this book is is to simply read it.It is a short book, so it does not take much time at all to read.
But Travel Light is very distinctively its own thing.The language is incredibly effective.
All this is especially appropriate given that in many ways language and empathy are core themes of this book.
A rescued child, fostered by bears and dragons, learns to travel light.
The title is central conceit, character growth and theme: what we carry with us, physically, psychologically; what it means to keep or discard, and how it informs our experience--couched within a playful, flexible narrative that slides from fairytale to Constantinople.
The changing settings and tone can be disorientating, even disappointing for becoming less fantastic, but it also allows for increasingly ambiguous thematic development.
That Mitchison can do this all, can speak with humor and sympathy, can be frivolous and profound, is a sincere delight (and it makes me want to read more of her work).
Weaving a journey from solitude to companionship, from losing her family to helping others through their pain, from dragon caves in the north to Mickelgard (Byzantium) and back north, Halla finds her way in the world of small magics, animals she can speak to, humans who become friends, humans who twist their power and the always, always to be feared heroes.
An underappreciated gem from Tolkein's era by a woman who knew him well. Halla is cast out of her father's castle to be nursed by a bear and raised by a dragon. She grows up hating heroes, for they kill dragons, but she cannot live forever away from the human world. She must find out who she is by traveling light. A swift and delicious read.
Some truly brilliant parts, but some tedium too. I would have preferred for the whole book to be more like the first section, which has an overtly fairytale quality, before Hallah enters human company and things start to get more... let's say, spiritually heavy-handed.
