https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225850.Dumbing_Us_Down
Before reading this book I really thought I was 100% sure about my reasons to homeschool.
I guess I was only half way there because now that I have finished this book, I realize that I never really saw the harms of the public school system 100%.
The role models they take on during school really are harming them.
And if you are a parent who cares about your child, you must read this book.
Do it for your children.
There is no other person in the world who cares more about your children than you, who knows what is better for your kids than you.
And I had to laugh when I opened the book and the print was freaking 18 point.
(Like maybe we're not bright enough to follow along with typical 12 point print?)I also have a problem with someone who spent his whole career in New York school systems making broad sweeping statements about public education in general.
And there are as many different school environments are there are different schools in the country.It also bothered me that he made such generalized, sensational statements.
ALL his students watch too much TV and it's ruining them.
Wow, this read really had me questioning our educational system. Informative and fast read!
However he leaves a few key facts out, the first is that there was compulsory education in that time, in the 1640's (starting in 1642) Mass.
If you go to his website you will see a link to a group he started called the Odysseus group (http://www.johntaylorgatto.com/odysse...) who's primary goal is for government schools to "forced to compete." and that "Free market choice will improve government schools, too" it seems fairly contradictory to me that someone who speaks against schools as a tool of the elite class would want to turn education over to the free market that has created so many problems (Enron, Water wars in Bolivia, Jail privitazions, Iraq, Health care industry in America, privitazion of the military in Iraq that has led to Blackwater, Halliburton, etc...) To sum up his argument it seems to be this: Industry has taken a hold of our schools and acts as a propaganda tool to socialize children to work in various industries unquestiongly, the short term solution?
And we can only solve the problems we face and improve society by dismantling the educational system and everything that supports it and return to that never-never land of colonial Massachusetts by allowing the free market to take over and give people freedom of choice.
He idealizes the past, especially 17th century Massachusetts and his own childhood to contrast with everything he hates about modern life, but rather than address what changed in American life and why he implies it's some grand conspiracy to destroy society as a whole and produce sheep reliant on centralized authority.His magic solution to go back to olden times by dismantling education as we know it, including any kind of structure in the lives of students, allow people to chose their own truths, or realities, and over time the free market will correct all of the flaws and society will change on its own for the better.
We squished their passion, love for learning, and curiousity for its own sake before they were seven.So, I agree with everything Gatto says about the problem, but I don't share the same enthusiasm for his solution: basically, charter schools.
I can't think it's OK for the kids who attend this charter school to learn this, with no balancing opinion offered, even if this means other children at a different charter school would get a vastly better education than they do now.
Don't read this if you have or plan on having children that you won't be able to home-school, but a must read for everyone els. This is a damning indictment against the public school system written by none other than a teacher who lived it. Sure to cause riots once more people realize that twelve to thirteen years of their lives were utterly wasted.
This was an excellent book written by a NY teacher of the year who taught for 26 years in the "government controlled monopoly school system".
It is an eye opener that what is needed is less money, not more.
Interesting to learn that the literacy rate in colonial America was close to total, and hasnt been that high since just before the Civil War when compulsory schooling (government monopoly schooling) began.
The 7 lessons kids are learning that he talks about in the first chapter were a definate eye opener.
I would dare say they are lessons no parent would wish their children to "learn".
There are some choice lines you will find, which I won't spoil here.I thought about giving a review on each of Gatto's essays in the book, which are arranged as chapters, but without having source citations (which he did not provide) to cross reference I'll be simply be agreeing with what sounds good to me based on Gatto's years of teaching and wisdom (at that time) in six New York schools of vastly differing social strata; and that of my Public schooling.I do intend to read Gatto's more recent books on this subject of compulsory / institutionalized "learning" better put: "schooling".
Excellent. As with all my favourite books, I have lent it out and it is still out there! This book is proof that home educators are not obsessive nutcases, as he provides inside information on schooling in New York which spanned over 30 years. When I first got this book it followed me everywhere until I had finished it, even into the bath. This author can share my bath anytime, as long as I don't drop the book in, of course!
Author John Taylor Gatto is a two-time NYC Teacher of the Year whose treatise here takes exception to the quality of compulsory public education in America.
He points out that public education came of age during the industrial revolution, when manufacturers supported public schools because they were a training ground for their workers of the future, all conditioned-up nice like.
On the contrary, I hear many American businesses decrying the brain drain, and wondering where the next generation of innovators is going to come from.Gatto’s background is in the New York City public school system.
Do not read this book unless you are prepared to feel extremely uncomfortable with the statues quo of the educational system in this country.
He makes the case for how we have lost the indivdual spirit and creativity as our education system continues to turn more and more power over to central authoriteis who know best and we as a nation continue to spend more and more money to fix the problems in education.
Not only education, but more importantly families have hurt by this, as children are forced to spend more and more time out of the influence of loving parents and siblings.
Written by a man that taught in the monopoly called public school system, won awards for it, and lists what he taught; confusion, class position, indifference, emotional dependency, intellectual dependency, and provisional self-esteem.The national curriculum is a joke.
And what is different from this book compared to others, he doesn't just list the things that are wrong with the system or bash the system.
Mr. Gatto gives suggestions of tearing the institution apart and rebuilding it.
Something I've yet to read anyone else do.
There's interesting historical information about children in Massachusetts in 1850 being forced to go to public school at gun point.
Individuals are stones subordinated to built the mighty pyramid.Schools have wide array of tools to create the perfect child.
Insane adult in making.2.assigning class positions: hierarchies of clever and weak, standardized tests , seating positions 3.inculcating indifference: short attention spans created by short periods and the ringing of the bell.4.emotional dependency: kid depends on teachers approval like smile, Pat for grade.a powerful control tool.5.
Intellectual dependency: thought control by the teacher.
Thus, a highly specialised but dependent society.6.provisional self esteem built purely on grades 7.one can't hide: the surveillance device by the teacher constantly hovering over the kid.
No other book has shaped my view about public school as much as this one. Gatto's analysis of the damage done to a student's curiosity is so incisive as to wake any educated parent to our failing school system. I decided that normal people can home school their children after having read this book. Very influential and formative to how I want my children's education to be administered.
Brilliant summation about the fatal flaws of Modern EducationThis book gives excellent words and insight into the sense that so many of us have about the perpetual decline of our "national education." Watching the national Common Core debacle that has engulfed our country we can see how prophetic this has become.
The "7 Lesson School Teacher" is the real gem of this book, although his other chapters have something to gain from too.Quotes:"School is a twelve-year jail sentence where bad habits are the only curriculum truly taught.""Pouring the money we now pour into schooling back into family education might cure two ailments with one medicine, repairing families as it repairs children.""Discovering meaning for yourself as well as discovering satisfying purpose for yourself, is a big part of what education is.""People are less than whole unless they gather themselves voluntarily ...
only slaves are gathered by others.""schools are not failing ...
After reading this book I was reassured that homeschooling my children was the best answer.
The author is a teacher, and writes why he feels the school system is failing our children and our family.
He is very big on interacting as a community rather than a network.
He mentions things that had happened in the past, as far back as the time of Plato.
If it wasn't for that, then I would have given this book 5 stars.
I would recommend this book to every parent that is interested in the best way to help their children grow and learn.
This guy really hits the nail on the head. This book is definitely worth reading if you care at all about the education of your children.Update (5/21/2015)I just re-read this book. And I would change what I wrote from "definitely worth reading..." to "AN ABSOLUTE MUST READ if you have kids!"
. .a workforce that will not rebel, that will be physically, intellectually, and emotionally dependent upon corporate institutions for their incomes, self-esteem, and stimulation, and that will learn to find social meaning in their lives solely in the production and consumption of material goods" (xxii).Gatto decries the loss of community (which has been replaced by networks), the separation of young from old, the removal of children from families, the idea of the "professionalization of teaching which preempts the teaching function which belongs to everyone" (16), the lack of free time for children to think, explore, and learn to serve.
Nearly everything this author has to say gets said in the first chapter; the rest is just other speeches in which he expounds the virtues of small-town life or goes into anecdotes or repeats "school sucks" with different words.This collection of speeches is basically an overlong op-ed.
While I agree with the content, that's sort of the thing.
I just got the impression through the whole thing that if you're not in a 1940's-traditional-small-town-life, well, "you need to be fixed."Basically, if you already don't like the public school system and need help articulating why, this book could be helpful.
John Taylor Gatto is one wise man.
He has capture many sentiments that I would have never be able to materialize into words.
The 7 lessons taught cracked me up because they are so spot on and obvious yet no one else has spoken up like Mr. Gatto.
One day I want to visit Solitude and learn from this amazing man.
Moreover, without the tyranny of mandatory public education, most people would likely devote themselves to a few things they're naturally inclined towards and become masters, instead of being forced to have a shallow, rudimentary grasp of several subject that are of no use or interest to them.2.
Gatto believes one reason kids are taught indifference in school, is that teachers hope to encourage enthusiasm for the subject and yet when the bell rings, they must stop whatever they're working on and proceed quickly to the next work station.
His response to people who say, "Well, how will the kids learn to read, write and add?" is that we should consider Benjamin Franklin who did perfectly fine without school!
Let me start out by saying that I am a public school teacher, so I may have some bias and will admit that I could feel defensive as Gatto derides public education, even though he was in public education for almost 30 years.
However, Gatto NEVER offers solutions in this book.
He states that "No one survives these places [schools] with their humanity intact, not kids, not teachers, not administrators, and not parents." Really?
There are good and bad things about every school.
I want to improve and better myself, but I can only do this through books that offer solutions and give ideas and strategies to do so.
It's funny because I was thinking to myself, "it sounds like this guy is blaming public education for all the problems in this world." and then at the very end of the book he say's, "This system doesn't work, and it's one of the causes of our world coming apart." The other cause, according to him, is television.So here's the thing, I actually agreed with some of the things he said.
However, I already saw those things myself and I don't need some crazy fanatical guy trying to scare me out of the school system by saying things like, "No one survives these places with their humanity intact, not kids, not teachers, not administrators, and not parents." (pg.
I keep a notebook for research purposes with quotes that I think I might use for future articles, and even after I finished reading this, I had to reopen it to copy down quotes that were still on my mind.
AND I'm going to have to check it out of the library (if only my teacher's salary allowed more room in the budget for more book purchases!) to get yet another that I want to use for my current article.I rarely make recommendations for everyone, especially all educators, but I think this makes that very short list.
"Teaching is nothing like the art of painting, where, by the addition of material to a surface, an image is synthetically produced, but more like the art of sculpture, where by the subtraction of material, an image already locked in the stone is enabled to emerge. It is a crucial distinction."And many more brilliant quotes...
Enjoyed this book, though it seemed a bit extreme, it made me feel good that I am homeschooling my kids.
Interesting ideas, if a bit idealistic. My biggest problem with this book is, being a series of essays, it's a bit repetitive.
Must read for school librarians.
