https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60653.Cows_Pigs_Wars_and_Witches
If nothing else, I recommend at least checking out this chunk of the book.Broomsticks and Sabbats/The Great Witch Craze: Basically, the argument here is that witches were used, particularly throughout The Inquisition, as a means to create* a sort of spiritual scapegoat for the ills of the time, in order to save the Catholic Church/State from blame for crop-failures, severe weather, over-taxation, large-scale class division, etc.
To him, the counter-culture movement is and was just another manifestation of spirituality ruling out in favor of rationality, and that the rejection of science when it comes to human behavior, particularly through blanket cultural relativism, is dangerous and irresponsible for all concerned.And that is a "summary" of Marvin Harris' book.
But only at the State or Imperial level is this hierarchy enforced not by prestige but by force of arms, to stop the poor and working classes from revolting and sharing the fruits of their labor.The most provocative sections of the book deal with revolutionary movements that fought for this liberation, within the context of the religious wars of Biblical Judea and Late Medieval Europe.First, Harris tackles the Messiah complex by showing that Jews around the time of Jesus waged near-constant guerrilla warfare against their Roman rulers and oppressors.
الكتاب بشكل ما يوضح فكرة أننا نجهل أمورا كثيرة وأن تلك الأمور قد ترتبط بشبكة من الأسباب والنتائج بعيدة تماما عن تلك التي نتخيلها..الكتاب يقدم وجهة نظر قد تقنعنا أحيانا وقد لا تفعل ليكبر السؤال أكثر وربما هنا تحديدا تكمن أهمية الكتاب أن نطرح الأسئلة.
Marvin Harris intends to apply scientific theory to some of the great cultural riddles of the world.
Unfortunately, like an evolutionary biologist trying to explain why humans have pinky toes, he comes across as making up just-so stories.
The truth in a just-so story is always in what it tells us about the storyteller.
One more thing: Since I'm not an expert on all matter historical, I usually factcheck history books by spot-checking the stuff I do know.
If Marvin Harris's account of the religious landscape of first century Palestine is any indication, then his historical research was pretty shoddy.
مقدسات ومحرمات وحروب: ألغاز الثقافة3،5/5
Marvin Harris enlaza muy bien temas que a priori no tienen mucho que ver pero con hilo conductor que se va entendiendo conforme avanzas.
Aborda algunas costumbres, mitos y movimientos de diferentes culturas y grupos sociales a lo largo de la historia y los analiza en su sentido práctico, característica del materialismo cultural en el que suele enmarcarse el autor.
Llamativas tradiciones y ritos sobre la alimentación y la guerra en diferentes grupos, Jesucristo y los movimientos mesiánicos, la contracultura americana, brujas e inquisición, etc.
Me gusta mucho el estilo del autor y su capacidad de crear atención e interés.
Cows are inefficiently raised and devoured in the United States, while in India, people would rather go hungry than eat cow flesh. In the Jewish and Moslem tradition, pigs are unclean and cannot be consumed; while in others, gargantuan pig feasts are more holy than the Thanksgiving turkey. Is this just part of the inexplicable side of human nature, or are there understandable reasons for these cultural curiosities? Harris shows that these bizarre displays of cultural variety play an important and understandable role in the cultures’ environments.
Unexpectedly turned out to be one of the most though-provoking and fascinating cultural studies I've ever read. Everyone should have a few horizon-wideners on their book list -- this should be one of them.
While the contemporary United States would itself provide enough material for a multi-volume study of this kind, Marvin Harris focuses mostly on pre-scientific and pre-literate peoples to answer questions like: Why do Hindus not eat cows, while Jews avoid pork instead?
He looks for answers to these questions in the everyday lives and concerns of the people that entertain these beliefs.
Instead of the Catholic Church wishing to root witches out of society, they used the common folkloric beliefs in sorcery to the Church’s advantage.
Cows, Pigs, Wars, and Witches by Marvin Harris is a book written just for me.
Cows, Pigs, Wars, and Witches falls in that same category--interesting, thoughtful, sometimes right, and sometimes wrong, in my opinion.
Cows, Pigs, Wars, and Witches selectively explains, but the author purposefully mentions his intent is not to explain everything, a few cultural attributes that existed in the world at different periods of time and attempts to give a reasonable and rational reason for their being a part of the culture.
I enjoyed Cows, Pigs, Wars, and Witches because it gave me plenty to think about.
However, I had to immediately correct myself by adding "except for Cows, Pigs, Wars and Witches and The Day the Universe Changed: How Galileo's Telescope Changed the Truth."I read Marvin Harris' scintillating book in 1978.
Although an accessible paperback designed for a general readership, Cows, Pigs, Wars and Witches provided a fabulous text for my sociology class on how abstruse actions by other cultures are not quite so inexplicable once you understand the culture.
Cows, Pigs, Wars and Witches proves as riveting as a whodunit or one of the new YA adventure tales.
This book is required reading for my Political Science 101 class, and for once a professor has managed to select an interesting book. This is an interesting look at some of the cultural riddles that tend to mystify Westerners - like Cow Love in India, Pig Hate in the Middle East, Cargo Cults, etc. Harris explains how these seemingly ridiculous (to us) behaviors are actually perfectly sensible and successful adaption strategies. A short and pleasant read, well researched and written. I highly recommend this to anyone who has an interest in cultural adaptation strategies or just cultures in general.

Lectura obligada, a mi entender. Un estudio antropológico de actualidad en muchos puntos a pesar de remontarse a 1974. Se aprende una barbaridad.Aparte, hace literalmente siglos que no leía nada desde una perspectiva de positivismo y objetividad que se mantiene al servicio de la humanidad eminentemente subjetiva como es, muy a lo siglo XVIII.
I liked this book very much because it is written really well and it explains some very strange concepts,,, i learned many bizarre facts from it that i can mansplain to other people now which is very exciting.
Un libro ameno, a ratos muy interesante (para mi sobre todo en los primeros capítulos) en su propósito de divulgación antropológica.
Y el detalle no me parece menor, porque el caso inicial de las vacas hindúes, el del tabú del cerdo o el del 'Potlatch', los beneficios para la comunidad resultan bastante abstractos y largoplacistas, en cambio la verosímil conspiración medieval de las brujas podría tener perfectamente nombre y apellidos ya que se pueden establecer objetivos concretos.
En cuanto a la 'contracultura', al ser tratado como un tema de actualidad a mi me parece que ha envejecido mal.
All those religious traditions that seem utterly stupid, confounding, and sometimes surprising as well as the events in history such as 'witchcraft' whose root causes we generally don't know, is the main topic of this book.
What a book such a motivation makes!
I won't give any spoilers but I want to say, if such a strong ambition to search for truth doesn't deserve respect, then I don't what does.
After so many years, I've yet to come across such a book, and I keep on seeing Marvin Harris as a modern Sherlock Holmes on a grand scale.
Grand in its efforts on a both geographical and temporal scale.
4.5
La verdad es que uno se relame ante el planteamiento inicial de que alguien, al fin, vaya a ser capaz de explicarle a uno los motivos por los cuales las vacas sean sagradas en la India, de que aunque sus habitantes se mueran de hambre no se las coman, y otros tópicos de ese estilo relacionados con el culto: es cierto, la ignorancia que hemos desarrollado como lectores ante ciertos aspectos de la vida se basa en la incomprensión de ciertos tópicos de otras culturas, como el hecho de que los occidentales o europeos no podamos entender cómo se puede comer perro o termitas, aunque este sea otro asunto, que por cierto insinúa varias veces el libro, pero que tampoco trata con la profundidad que sería deseable.De entre las mayores decepciones del libro, el capítulo dedicado a la vaca en la India ha sido una de las mayores, dado que yo albergaba, junto al relacionado con el cerdo y por otros motivos particulares, un interés especial.
Someone recommended this to me when I first went back to school -- eight years ago! I was originally majoring in cultural anthropology. That came to an end when I realized I wasn't extroverted enough. Anyway, this book has been sitting on my "to read" list all this time. I finally checked it out. And it turns out I have no interest in reading it, at all. I can't get into the writing style, and reading a 43-year-old anthro book doesn't appeal to me.
هذا الكتاب الموجه إلى القارىء الغربي بالاساس هدفه التوصل إلى اسباب منطقية ومقنعة لكثير من المحرمات و
Very interesting and engaging read until the last couple of chapters.
I am all for anchoring behavioral phenomenon in practical roots, and that's what Harris does really well in the first few chapters where he breaks down his explanation of each phenomenon.
The last few chapters, however, feel like a critical rant by an academic (and he certainly was one) who's gotten on his high horse, gone on a too-smart-for-anyone-but-himself smug tangent, and lost the thread and the reader altogether.
If I hadn't read the last few chapters, I'd have said this was 4.5 stars.
Something I really enjoyed about Harris' voice in this book is the sense of barely contained anger that imbues it.
The main thing Harris is trying to do here is to describe how certain elements of culture, which may at first glance seem not to make practical or economic sense, turn out to have functions deeply rooted either in ecology and a relationship with the land, or in an adaptive relationship to power.
In his analysis, long-term cultural frameworks inhabited by humans are creations of forces outside of morality and personal choice- they've been formed by time and extremity.
While I don't agree with all of Marvin Harris' conclusions, I can say that the scientific way that he approaches problems typically viewed only in a just-so light was both informative and fascinating.
His precise evaluation of each question was both thorough and scientific and offers much to anyone fascinated in anthropological (or even political) theory.While the author is very much the product of the time in which the book was written (the 1970's) the methods that mark his conclusions are a very good introduction to a new way of thinking, and one not often enough used by many laypeople.
Sin duda, un libro que cumple su objetivo: exponer las teorías de su autor de manera argumentada y entendible.Totalmente recomendable para cualquiera que disfrute de una lectura desenfadada y gratificante, esta obra es un ensayo antropológico que -ni más ni menos- cumple su fución didáctica sin dejar de lado una prosa que mueve al lector a abrirse a la información dada por el escritor. Este no es otro ensayo rimbombante e intelectualoide, sino una lección de antropología y objetividad expuesta de manera fluida y amena.
A very fascinating read. I really like the author's perspective that cultural behavior can be explained by real and concrete things. Like the history geek that I am, I found myself wanting to read further about the history of some of the topics. Considering current world events, I also found the sections about the middle east to be quite enlightening. It's an area of ancient world history I have previously not had much interest in.
Harris is an "Anthropologist" and uses judgmental words such as bizarre and maniacal in the same sentence. My problem with the book is not the inferences made about certain practices, but the way in which they are discussed. It saddens me to see someone supposedly dedicated to the study of culture discuss in such a negative manner.
I did not like this book. It never occurred to me to question why Hindus would rather starve than eat a sacred cow.This book seemed to me to be an old white guys anthropological "opinion," giving Western explanations for cultural practices.
Primitive tribal peoples who encounter Westerners (usually soldiers or anthropologists) are introduced to the concept of cargo, which is interchangeable with "blessings" to early Judeo-Christians.
any day now, they'll be here.The Madang people worshiped their own native, animist gods until Australian missionaries hit the scene around WWII and introduced them to the concept of cargo.
Well, the missionaries never delivered, keeping their cargo for themselves, so the Madang started to reject the missions and built a new mythology: Jesus is real, and he gave the Europeans cargo, and he wanted to give the natives cargo, too, but the Australians kidnapped him and were holding him hostage in Sydney, Australia.
I read this for a class in Religious studies. This book isn't a fun read but it gives you insight into why certain traditions and beliefs have evolved. An eye-opener!
