https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12201.Stopping_by_Woods_on_a_Snowy_Evening
(For those of you who aren't familiar with the term clock, it was a circular device, affixed to the wall, to indicate time).It was a Wednesday evening, and I had two essays due the following day (hadn't started either yet), and I had a raging crush on a guy named Kurt, who was meeting me after class to make-out (and who turned out to be a TOTAL LOSER).But, let's get back to 9:40 and the class that would never end and my shaking right leg and my eyes that could not be averted from the clock.The professor was still at the front of the class, silent now, holding papers and an open book before him.(For those of you who aren't familiar with the term papers, they were an ancient form of keeping track of notes, information and whatnot, before laptops).And, just as I was about to jam my thumb deep into my right eye socket from boredom and anticipation of release, the professor allowed the room to fall into a silent confusion before he almost whispered:Whose woods these are I think I know.He paused.
This always makes me think of him, my grandfather, and the sanctity of these words spoken in this holy-to-me place, and the many blessings I have in memories like this one that I treasure.The woods are lovely, dark and deep,But I have promises to keep,And miles to go before I sleep,And miles to go before I sleep.
Most of the the poetry I read to my kids reflects that motion, that high energy.
I remembered the first time I read Robert Frost.
The first time I ever read a poem that made me stop; that made me feel the weight of the pauses, the meaning in the silence between words.
Yet, however many times we read it, it never ceases to amaze me how still they are, and how wonderful it is to have a children's poetry book to reflect that stillness.
Children are poetry in motion.
Loved this poem. Story of my life.
The old familiar words are given new life by Susan Jeffers' ethereal, lovely illustrations as an elderly gentleman stops to admire the beauty of a quiet woods, and even makes a snow angel.
Robert Frost's classic winter poem, Stopping By Woods On a Snowy Evening, which was composed in 1922 and first published in 1923 as part of his  New Hampshire  volume, provides the text for this beautiful picture-book. His evocative words are paired with Susan Jeffers' beautiful artwork, which amplifies the story to be found in the poem, depicting the travelling narrator as a kindly soul who leaves good things for the forest residents as he passes through.As someone who has loved this poem since
The illustrations, which capture both the pale beauty of a snow-covered world, as well as the more colorful elements brought into that world by the man in his snow-drawn carriage, have quite a few surprises hidden in them.
From the hares hiding in the brush on one page, to the deer watching as the man lays down the food he has brought for the woodland animals, there is plenty going on in the illustrations that add to the 'basic' story-line of the poem.
Highly recommended to anyone looking for picture-book presentations of classic poems intended for children, as well as to fans of Ms. Jeffers' artwork.
soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo good!
This book was siting on a coffee table at a house I was visiting family at, so I picked it up to see what it was, and read through the whole short book. Beautifully illustrated, the pictures with the corresponding lines of poetry are almost magical, and kept we pulled in to a beautiful ending. I really enjoyed this one.
I had not read Robert Frost's "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" in decades. I memorized the poem back in grade school, and it is fun to see how much my daughter loves this book!
Frost extrapolates a cavernous image of the deep, dark abyss of the woods, to that of the distance remaining of the speaker’s life.Frost’s curiosity in the hereafter is emphasised in the final verse of “Away” (1920):And I may returnIf dissatisfiedWith what I learnFrom having died.A sense of his agnosticism here is tempered with a statement made whilst on a peripatetic amble with John Lynen, when he said “You know, there is nothing after this” (Lynen, 1960).The conception of death was created by man, and this is illustrated powerfully in “Range-Finding” (1916).
And miles to go before I sleep, And miles to go before I sleep.....
This is a sweetly illustrated book and makes a nice read-aloud for littler ones.
If you want to read a poem to little ones while having pictures to show, fine.
The subtler meanings of this beautiful work, which is one of my favorite of Frost's, by the way, are completely absent.
Even children's books can stay true to the spirit of a work while catering to the understanding of younger minds, but I get no sense here that the artist even understood the implications of the words.
Features in a 1996 nationwide poll compilation.From wiki - "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" is a poem written in 1922 by Robert Frost, and published in 1923 in his New Hampshire volume.
Frost had been up the entire night writing the long poem "New Hampshire" and had finally finished when he realized morning had come.
He went out to view the sunrise and suddenly got the idea for "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening".
He wrote the new poem "about the snowy evening and the little horse as if I'd had a hallucination" in just "a few minutes without strain."[3]The poem is written in iambic tetrameter in the Rubaiyat stanza created by Edward Fitzgerald.
Whose woods these are I think I know.
His house is in the village though; He will not see me stopping here To watch his woods fill up with snow.
My little horse must think it queer To stop without a farmhouse near Between the woods and frozen lake The darkest evening of the year.
One of my most fav poems by my favorite poet....
I AM IN LOVE WITH THIS POEM <3 Whenever I read it, I imagine myself walking through a forest with such lush scenery ^_^

When a book focuses on a single poem, that poem takes on more importance. 'Stopping by Woods" is an American classic that every student should have read at least once, preferably in high school. Sometimes I like to read a line and think about what it means while I admire Jeffers' art. (Note: I am not a fan of poetry.)
LOVE this poem. Reminds me of sitting in a window and watching the snow fall. The illustrator did a perfect job.
It is about a man and his horse who travel many miles on a winter day, in their sleigh, to the woods and then back to their house in the village.Evaluation: I really enjoyed this book and think it is wonderful for students to read as it introduces them to poetry.
It also includes beautiful pictures!Teaching: I would read this book to students when discussing poetry in an ELA class as I think it is a great example of a poetic story.
After reading, I could use a white board to further discuss poetry and what it includes.
Although the reader of poetry may know the poem well enough, especially if they enjoy Robert Frost it is Susan who adds the beauty to this particular retelling.
The reader is given a black-and-white chance to explore the breathtaking beauty of a snowy woods and the compassionate heart as the old man (is he suppose to look like Santa?) works on fulfilling a promise.
All in all a most beautiful retelling and one that is sure to be treasured by the poetry lover who can add it to their collection.
When I was in high school, my English teacher made my class memorize random poems.
I still have that iMovie and I occasionally show it in classes when I go to teach poetry, so imagine my surprise when I came across this hardcover, illustrated book of my favorite poem!
I think this is one of the best picture books I’ve ever seen, and I highly recommend it, for both the young and the old...To read my full review upon release (1/31/12):http://wp.me/p1jhaj-1F4
The picture illustrations match beautifully with the words of the poem allowing young readers an opportunity to visualize the lines of the poem (which can be a great tool when trying to teach them about poetry!.
The poem itself is complex enough to be used as a tool for upper elementary and even middle school students.
Whether it is just for a read aloud or as an exemplary piece in a poetry unit, it is so beautifully written and illustrated that all children should be exposed to it.
1) Book summary, in your own words (3 pts)-This classic Robert Frost poem is about a man who takes a walk through the woods on a snowy evening (kinda easy to see where he got the title for the poem, right?).
He enjoys taking in the beautiful scenery.
Unlike his anxious horse, he just wants to sit and enjoy nature for awhile.2) Grade level, interest level, lexile (1 pt)-3rd-4th grade.3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)-Poetry unit.4) Individual students who might benefit from reading (1 pt)-Students learning about poetry.5) Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)-Students can read the poem in literature circles and discuss the meaning.6) Whole class use (read aloud) (1 pt)-Carpet read aloud.7) Related books in genre/subject or content area (1 pt)-The Giving Tree by Shel Silverstein-Outside Your Window: A First Book of Nature by Nicola Davies 8) Multimedia connections (audio book, movie) available (1 pt)-None available.
I think that Jeffers lyrical illustrations really create a beautiful chord combined with Frost's words.
I love this edition, but so much is communicated in the illustrations that I started to think about the words being overpowered or limited by the portrayal.
I found most of the book, where there are animals subtly drawn in the trees- their image unfolding for the reader who pauses to look- to be in total support of the text, and not interfering.
Quibbles: there is an unmistakable Santa-look to the main character, and the "promises to keep" line is illustrated with a family.
The focus here is on Susan Jeffers's illustrated interpretation of this remarkable poem, and how it brings the poem to life for children and adults alike.
Certainly the poem stands on its own merit, but the beautifully wrought illustrations of this edition perfectly accentuate the vision and emotion of the poem.
The illustrations are paced carefully, not haphazardly, appearing where images are most appropriate and not simply according to the construction of line or stanza breaks.
This book is therefore perfect for bedtime recitation, as the time necessary to view each of the breathtaking illustrations slows the reading and allows the poem, read aloud, to take on the breathy anticipation it warrants.
For those who follow my reviews on GoodReads, this will seem a rarity to read and rate a children's book.
However this little green hardcover book captivated my attention with the first flick of the pages.
I've always had a great love for artistic illustrations in children's books and I must say, this one does not disappoint.
Susan Jeffers uses pencil and pen and ink to make all the lovely illustrations in this tale.
Paired with one of Robert Frost's most famous poems, this book was a delight to savor.
I'm very glad to have stumbled upon this little treasure.
Austin Ratner's recent review of this book prompted me to enter the world of Frost's "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" as Susan Jeffers has depicted it. I plan to periodically return to Jeffers' exquisite illustrations. Perhaps at some point, I will feel as if they are enabling me to see Frost's thoughts. For now, though, I'll settle for the beauty in this presentation of one of the many memorable poems by my favorite poet. My copy of this book won't be added to bookswap before I sleep.
This is our project for english and the moment I read it, I thought, "Where is this poem hiding for a long time? I should've read it a long time ago." Why? Because it was really great! We also applied a tone for it to be sung. For me, it's about the journey of life, depression, struggling, and how solitude might accompany us throughout the way.
My grandmother challenged me to memorize this poem when I little. She said she would give me a dollar if I did. I never earned that dollar but I love this poem and think of her when I hear it. I think this book does a great job with the illustrations at really making the words make sense to young kids who might not be used to the poetic way of communicating.
As I told my boys, this is just one person's idea of what Frost may have been thinking of when he wrote his poem. Personally, I doubt anything so busy was in his mind- I think it's a poem about silence, mainly. And that's not the idea presented here. But still. I think it's a good thing to think about, to try to imagine what the poem could mean.The illustrations are very good.
Wow! One of Robert Frost's best poems gorgeously illustrated! It is in print again (slightly smaller format), so now I can give my mom's copy back to her. This has been one of my favorites for pretty much my whole life, and I would give it ten stars if I could.
