https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312376.The_Cocktail_Party
Cocktail Party, T.S. EliotCharacters: Edward Chamberlayne, Julia (Mrs. Shuttlethwaite), Celia Coplestone, Alexander Maccolgie Gibbs, Peter Quilpe, An Unidentified Guest later identified as Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly, Lavinia Chamberlayne, A Nurse-Secretary, Caterer's ManAct I.
EDWARD CHAMBERLAYNE, JULIA SHUTTLETHWAITE, CELIA COPLESTONE, PETER QUILPE, ALEXANDER MACCOLGIE GIBBS, and an UNIDENTIFIED GUEST.ALEX You've missed the point completely, Julia:There were no tigers.
You haven't been listening.PETER You'll have to tell us all over again, Alex.ALEX I never tell the same story twice.عنوانها: مهمانی عصرانه؛ میهمانی کوکتیل؛ کوکتیل پارتی؛ نویسنده: تی.اس.
الیوت؛ مترجم: امیر فریدون گرگانی، انتشارات سروش، تهران 1354؛ در 116 ص؛ عنوان: کوکتیل پارتی؛ نویسنده: تی.اس.
To which the guest, foreshadowing future engagements, replies:"And I know that all you wanted was the luxuryof an intimate disclosure to a stranger.Let me therefore, remain a stranger.But let me tell you , that to approach the strangeIs to invite the unexpected, release a new force,or let the genie out of the bottle.It is to start a train of eventsBeyond your control."The story takes on an absurd quality as various characters play their part to maintain the crumbling facade of the happy marriage.
کوکتل پارتی موفق ترین اثر تی. اس. الیوت در تئاتر بود. این نمایشنامه که به گفته خود الیوت تا حدی بر اساس نمایشنامه آلکستیس اثر اورپید نوشته شده است، جنبه هایی از خودزندگینامه بودن را هم با خود دارد. این نمایشنامه ایدههایی مرتبط با عقاید مذهبی الیوت، همچنین جنبه هایی از کمدی اتاق پذیرایی (نمایشنامه اتاق پذیرایی نوعی نمایشنامه است که در دوره ویکتوریا در بریتانیا رشد کرد، در این نمایشنامهها اتفاقات در یک اتاق پذیرایی رخ می دهند)، نمایشنامه های خانوادگی، و روانکاوی را هم دارا میباشد.نمایشنامه کوکتل پ
این نمایشنامه که به گفته خود الیوت تا حدی بر اساس نمایشنامه آلکستیس اثر اورپید نوشته شده است، جنبه هایی از خودزندگی‌نامه‌ بودن را هم با خود دارد.
این نمایشنامه ایده‌هایی مرتبط با عقاید مذهبی الیوت، همچنین جنبه هایی از کمدی اتاق پذیرایی (نمایشنامه اتاق پذیرایی نوعی نمایشنامه است که در دوره ویکتوریا در بریتانیا رشد کرد، در این نمایشنامه‌ها اتفاقات در یک اتاق پذیرایی رخ می دهند)، نمایشنامه های خانوادگی، و روانکاوی را هم دارا می‌باشد.نمایشنامه کوکتل پارتی روی زندگی مشترک ناموفق ادوارد و لاوینیا چامبرلاین تمرکز می‌کند.
ادوارد و این مهمان ناشناس سر صحبت را باز می‌کنند و ادوارد می‌گوید که همسرش لاوینیا او را ترک کرده است.
"Bosh sprinkled with mystic cologne," tooted critic George Jean Nathan when this play opened NYC, 1950, and won Best Play (Tony) and ran almost a year.
Receiving the blessing of Lucempire, TS made the TIME cover, March 5, 1950, shortly after his platitude opened.
"Would you like some sherry?" asked Maman.
Dado is mixing me a vodka martini." Now I see that TS (Missouri-born, an Anglo-Cat who became a naturalized Brit) was like some ingenue Methodist boning up, as it was suggested, for his examinations in Catholicism.God appears as an Unidentified Guest at a cocktailer where Knightsbridgies blither about amorous problems.
مهمانی عصرانه که یکی از بهترین نمایشنامه های تی اس الیوت محسوب می شود، پیچیدگی روابط انسانی و رنجی که انسان ها در ارتباطات خود با دیگران می برند را به خوبی به تصویر کشیده است.
تی اس الیوت که تحت تاثیر انگاره های مسیحی است، موضوع مرگ و زنده شدن دوباره در هر لحظه را مطرح می کند؛ از همین رو معتقد است انسان ها تغییر می کنند و همان آدم قبلی نیستند.
یکی از قسمت های جالب توجه نمایشنامه جایی ست که خانمي که حال و روز خوشی ندارد برای مشاوره نزد یک روانشناس آمده و می گوید دلم می خواهد من در اشتباه باشم زیرا در غیر این صورت دنیا یک اشباه بزرگ است.
لكنّه الصيت يا أصحاب :))وعلى العكس كانت الفصول النهائية لاذعة و واعية وتوصل فكرتها وبعدها الفلسفي و أنفاسها الديالكتيكية دون عناء.عندما تتحول العلاقة الزوجية بين إدوارد و لاڤيينيا لسجن فاتر، فيصبح كل منهما مجبر على التقهقر خلف حدوده حتى تلقي بهم مزاجياتهم من فوق الهاوية، يعتمد نجاح علاقتهما الزوجية على مدى تأكيد كل منهما لصدق دوره فيها، و بطبيعة الحال صدق الدور لا يكون بتقييد يديك و التفرج على مجرياتها من بعد أو التكهن بجذورها و توقع حلول سماوية لأنها تحتاج حلول وضعيّة واقعية، كذلك وضع إدوارد و لاڤيينيا الإجتماعي كعائلات مرموقة تحتل الإحتفالات في بهو بيتهما سمعة و طنطنة لا بأس بها يُعقّد مشكلتهما، تواجدهما وتوافقهما مشروط من الداخل بالحب والإخلاص و من الخارج باتحادهما لتشكيل قبة إجتماعية حاضنة لأصدقائهم ، لكن الاستشارة النفسية ستعيد الأمور إلى نصابها بينهما لإسترداد شيئًا من الطمأنينة في جوهما العاطفي، كما ان دائرة معارفهم تعتبر جزء مساهم في حلها ..
It’s about a cocktail party (doh) hosted by Edward and Lavinia.
He learns that she has left him, though he can’t for the life of him figure out why.
We also learn that there relationships among the guests that slowly come out as the play progresses.
All of Edward’s guests provide him with advice.
The best advice comes from “an unknown man,” who is later identified in the play as Dr. Reilly, a psychiatrist.
In the process of determining these reasons, most of the guests learn much more about whom they are and how they tick.
Eliot did a bang-up job of showing us how his characters worked.
پردهی اول فوقالعاده است؛ اما همینکه رایلیِ روانکاو وارد ماجرا میشه، داستان به «پندهایی برای ارتباط زناشویی بهتر» تقلیل میکنه و فیلمِ آتشبس به ذهن متبادر میشه.
پرده‌ی اول فوق‌العاده است؛ اما همین‌که رایلیِ روانکاو وارد ماجرا می‌شه، داستان به «پندهایی برای ارتباط زناشویی بهتر» تقلیل می‌کنه و فیلمِ آتش‌بس به ذهن متبادر می‌شه.
نمایشنامه در سه پردهطرح داستان درباره خودشناسی و شناخت اطرافیان و همچنین نحوه برخورد در روابطبا تم روانشناسی درباره طبیعت انسانخوب بود، پرده سوم یه مقدار افت میکنهترجمه خوبی داشتاین که شما خودتونو مسخره ببینین، هیچ صدمهای به شما نمیزنه، خودتونو بسپرین به همون دیوونهای که هستین...اخیرا به نقطهای رسیدم که دیگه حقارت هم توان تحقیرکردن منو نداره. آدم به جایی میرسه که احساسش متوقف میشه، اونوقته که اندیشهشو بیان میکنه
نمایشنامه در سه پردهطرح داستان درباره خودشناسی و شناخت اطرافیان و همچنین نحوه برخورد در روابطبا تم روانشناسی درباره طبیعت انسانخوب بود، پرده سوم یه مقدار افت میکنهترجمه خوبی داشتاین که شما خودتونو مسخره ببینین، هیچ صدمه‌ای به شما نمی‌زنه، خودتونو بسپرین به همون دیوونه‌ای که هستین...اخیرا به نقطه‌ای رسیدم که دیگه حقارت هم توان تحقیرکردن منو نداره. آدم به جایی میرسه که احساسش متوقف میشه، اون‌وقته که اندیشه‌شو بیان میکنه
Edward scopre all’improvviso che Lavinia, sua moglie, lo ha abbandonato.
Che noi sempre siamo soli” , lei che credeva di costruire qualcosa con il suo Edward, si accorge invece che Edward senza Lavinia non può esistere, perché non sa chi è, e che tutto ciò che hanno vissuto è solo un sogno, uno scherzo: “  Credevo proprio di dare tanto a lui, ed egli a me; e il dare come il prendere era giusto: non in termini di calcolo, sol per giovare a quei due che s’era stati, ma al nuovo individuo, NOI” … E poi si scopre che si era solo estranei, che non c’era stato niente da dare né da prendere, ma che s’era solo fatto uno l’un dell’altro ognuno pel suo fine.
Amiamo il riflesso di come noi ci vediamo attraverso gli occhi dell’altro, che non si sforza di conoscerci ma che a sua volta ama il suo riflesso in noi.
I re-read this play every other year or so, it just never stops having meaning for me. I first went to a performance of it in college, and I went back the night after, and the night after that. I couldn't get enough!I think the theme that resonates with me the most, and the reasons change, is that of relationships with others. Can you ever be known? Are you always alone?"I have ceased to believe in my own personality" "What is the reality of experience between two unreal people?"
Everyone's alone - or so it seems to me.They make noises, and think they are talking to each other..They make faces, and think they understand each other.And I'm sure they don't. Is that a delusion?
It's a nostalgic work, a confused work, and a work that doesn't necessarily answer its own questions so much as it articulates what it feels like to feel loss, craving, aversion, helplessness, regret, acceptance.
Everything remains below the surface as it rises up -- characters will be honest at moments; they will try to hide in the light, but everything is transparent in its confusion.
Is that delusion?Can we only loveSomething created in our own imaginations?"If you want to read something that makes you laugh, read this!
And if you want to laugh and then feel sad and question everything as T.S. Eliot always forces us to, yep, read this.
وهو ما جعلني أتساءل هل نحن بالفعل على علم بطبيعة مشاكلنا الحقيقية ؟ أم نحن فقط نكتفي بظاهر المشكلة ولا نحاول تفكيك المشكلات إلى أبسط مكوناتها للوصول لجوهرها؟لكن بالرغم من أن المسرحية تتخذ من التحليل النفسي موضوعا إلا أنها لم توضح الدوافع التي تجعل شخصية مثل جوليا تحاول مساعدة بقية الشخصيات..
و كذلك مساعدة بقية الشخصيات الأخرى..
فلم أشعر بوجود علاقة وطيدة بين الشخصيات للدرجة التي تجعلهم يحاولون مساعدة بعضهم البعض بهذا الشكل..على أي حال في المجمل المسرحية جيدة و ستنال إعجاب القارئ العادي و بالأخص القارئ المهتم بالتحليل النفسي..
The prose is lyrical and poetic, and in free verse, but I have to say that's pretty much what I liked for most part.
But people wouldn't talk like this, unless they're in a play of course rofl.
Either way I liked it.Reason why this gets a higher ranking is because I've read worse ones in my time at university, and boy, let me tell you, you'll end up with a headache of some sort and yet wonder if you're still lucid at times rofl.
I think somehow Exiled and The Jeweller's Shop fit perfectly with this one. The crisis of marriage, infidelity, and a sense of sin that apparently needs to be buried in the age of psychological analysis. Refreshing, brilliant and ever relevant, this has been my first reading of T.S. Eliot's literary production, and I'm not one bit disappointed. To be able to read human nature this well only can be possible for someone like him. Classical in nature and conception, since it mostly respects Aristotle's principles in Poetics, yet with the threatening hopelessness of the postmodern world lurking in the shadows.
Acts I & II are easily the most important work on human relationships (or, if you like, on hell) that I have come across. One of a few books I would universally suggest everybody read, as soon as they are old enough to understand it.Act III adds nothing of importance, and as such, detracts from the work overall - especially since it comes at the end. If you have the self-discipline to stop reading at the end of Act II, do it. You won't be missing anything, and you leave yourself with a much more powerful ending.
One of the most brilliant writings I've lately encountered. My American Literature professor said "we could spend a semester on just this play," and I now know why. Definitely one I'll keep around.
"Work out your salvation with diligence."
Nunca tinha lido uma peça do T. S. Eliot. Ótimas ideias, ótimos personagens, enredo estranho.
When I told my director-friend how much I liked it he said, "I should've known you'd like Eliot," but he brings me a sour note as I don't act in his productions nor water his flower bed.Nonetheless, in laughter I felt opened, by joy and revelry. Then, mr Eliot shot an arrow into my open rib cage before it had the slightest idea to protect itself. Carry on.
حوار ممتع على المستوي السيكولوجيوان عابه بعد التكرار
I didn't really know what it was about when I started reading it--it was definitely more than I bargained for.Celia to Edward:Oh, don't think that you can humiliate me!Humiliation--it's something I've done to myself.I am not sure even that you seem real enoughTo humiliate me.
(125)Celia to Reilly:And then I found we were only strangersAnd that there had been neither giving nor takingBut that we had merely made use of each otherEach for his purpose.
It starts off normally enough with a scene set in the drawing room of Edward and Lavinia Chamberlayne.
The stranger indicates that Lavinia will appear on the morrow, but that Edward must not ask her any questions.Some of the previous guests return and are in and out of the next few scenes, all set in the drawing room.
He meets with Edward, then Lavinia comes in, and there's lots of talk about what they want, but in a very existential way.
The third act is again in the Chamberlaynes' drawing room and again the same guests are there, all but Celia.
It was a lot easier to follow than I'd imagined it could it.Now on to the characters.
My favorite characters were Henry and Celia.
Henry is incredibly insightful and brilliant!
I don't understand why she died, I don't even really feel like it fit the rest of the story, but maybe it was to drive home just how complex she was.
You feel like you understand everyone else, and when you finally believe you understand who she is, you find you don't know her at all.
Unlike medieval morality plays, which upbraided audiences to choose good deeds and shun evil, The Cocktail Party simply places its characters in the crucible of choice, and diagnoses their indecision as a malaise.
After the party, Edward speaks with a character known as the Unidentified Guest, who seems eerily knowledgeable about Edward’s situation, and offers much superficially wise advice that only serves to confuse Edward.
The Unidentified Guest even offers to bring his wife back to him.
Yet Edward now seems uncertain about Celia, as if he has a mind to return to his wife.
"An awareness of solitude.
But that sounds so flat.
I don't mean simply That there's been a crash; though indeed there hasbeen.It isn't simply the the end of an illusionIn the ordinary way, or being ditched.Of course that's something that's always happeningTo all sorts of people, and they get over itMore or less, or at least they carry on.
No, I mean that what has happened has made me awareThat I've always been alone.
That one is always alone.Not simply the ending of one relationship,Not even simply finding that it never existed-But a revelation about my relationship With everybody.
I read that this was Vivien Leigh's favorite play, so I was intrigued. After reading a bit about her troubled marriage to Olivier, it makes sense that this would resonate with her. I found it more of a tragedy than a comedy overall, but it was very clever. I can't say that I "liked it" but I respected it:)
Everyone's alone — or so it seems to me.They make noises, and think they are talking to each other;They make faces, and think they understand each other.And I'm sure they don't. Is that a delusion?Can we only loveSomething created in our own imaginations?
Initially I was interested but as it continued both that and my understanding faded. I tried to read between the lines and felt like there was some great, deep message that was floating along above my head and I simply couldn't decipher it.
