https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/491312.Use_Your_Head
In a way this is my review of all of Buzan's books - at one time or another I've read them all and they are fun.Positives: The main thing to learn from Buzan is mind-mapping.
I ought to do these much more regularly, and will now I've reminded myself, but they really are wonderful things and should be taught to everyone - not just people who are 'visual' but everyone.Negatives: Buzan has this wonderful way of helping you memorise a list of ten items in order - in one of his other books he teaches you to memorise hundreds of items in order.
كتاب بسيط جدا وسهل وسلس جدا تزويدة بكمية الصور الى فية بيجعل استيعابة عملية بسيطة ومعلوماته قيمة ومتناول اشياء كثيرة
TONY BUZAN try to tell You in this book that your barin much better than you think and he prove that :).things that would learn Here : 1- perfect Reading : occur following 7 steps* recognition * assimilation * intra integration* extra integration * retention * recall * communication 2- Eye aid movement : amaziinnnnnng exercise :)3- Recall - brain has highest capacity for recall from 10 min to half hour after learning time then it slow down after weeks nothing can be Recall if you have't Reviewed any .and break during learning time give chance of better recalling after learning time .
إنه ليس مجرد كتاب يحوي موضوعاً او نقاشاً او فكراً بل هو أكثر من ذلك بكثير فهو الدليل الذي يوضح لنا كيفيفة عمل المنظومة العقلية المعقدة داخلنا وكيفية استثمارها بالشكل الأمثل للوصول إلى اقصى طاقاته للتغلب على كل مشكلات التعلم والتفكير والاستذكار والإبداع فنحن نعلم أن عقولنا لها قدرات هائلة لكننا لا ندرك ذلك ولا نعمل على فهم استغلالها وكيفيته للوصول لاقصى طاقاتنا الابداعية والتنموية الذاتية إن الكتاب هو اباية للانطلاق نحو الابداع والاستثمار بالذات اقرأ وأدرك ماتملك ثم انطلق في الاستثمار في ذاتك
كتاب مهم ننصح أي حد يقراه
This indeed is an owners manual on how to operate our own Super Bio computer. I devoured this book in record time, and can not wait to read everything else Tony has written. Improve you brain processing, cognition, memory, focus, recall using simple, yet effective techniques like mind mapping, described in this book. Every student should incorporate these methods in their learning process. Utilize both of your brain hemispheres, let your mind work as a whole for a change:)
I can say this is the best book of Buzanit is like a summary of all what he wrote about Studying skills & MindMapsكتاب جيد يعتبر أفضل ما كتب بوزانيلخص كافة أعماله الخاصة بطرق المذاكرة والخرائط الذهنية
قرأته منذ فترة .. و فيه بعض المعلومات المفيدة و التي أحاول الاستفادة منها
طلّقتُ أوهام التطوير الذاتي منذ زمن، لكنَّ هذا استثناء,, واحدٌ من الكتب القليلة التي أدين لها,خرائطه الذهنية أعانتني كثيراً في حفظ الغثّ والسمين من المناهج الجامعية :)
عادي نفس كتاب القراءة السريعة !!
Эта книга даёт представления Тони Бьюзена по поводу радиантной образной природы мышления и применения его в жизни. Главный плюс книги, что все сказанное автором имеет обоснование. Т.е. слова, что использование его подходов позволяет сделать 2-ка отличником подтверждается несколькими примерами настоящих людей, а какие-то заявления о природе мозга подтверждается конкретными исследованиями конкретных ученых.Эта книга достаточно короткая, поэтому тем кто не хочет тратить на это много времени понравится.При этом там описаны интеллект карты, скорочтение, тренировка памяти, работа с литературой, запись лекций и многое другое.Но на мой взгляд для изучения метода интеллект карт следует читать скажем http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80...
I read the Arabic ediion of this book because it is the only edition available in my university library (KFUPM Main Library). This book is one of a series of books on mind, memory and related stuff. It covers the subject of brain and howit works in 11 chapters. It doesn't give intensive guidance on how to improve the use of brain. It just puts you on the rghit track. If you want more, read the rest of the book series.
I wouldn't normally have chosen this type of book to read, but it was recommended to me by a work colleague, who thought it might help me with my studies. I found this book really interesting - giving advice on better ways to use your memory and recall skills.
this book wasn't by any means fantastic but was definitely interesting.
أفكار لتنمية النفس و طريقة التفكير مهمة، بعد الأنتهاء من قراءة الكتااااب تتوافر طاقة أيجابية لصنع أشياء جديدة و الأكيد تنشأ عادات يومية نفسية أكثر أيجابية
دليلك في المذاكرة هنا .. يقترح أساليب تساعدك على تذكر ما تعلمت ورسم الخرائط الذهنية لها تسهل عملية إستعادة المعلومة
A très jeune âge on apprend grâce à notre petite expérience avec les épreuves scolaires comment mieux rendre ce qu'on nous a réciter pour avoir une bonne note.
Mais jamais on a eu une matière spéciale pour savoir comment bien utiliser nos cerveaux..
comment bien analyser et savoir mémoriser ce qui est utile et important.
Plein de désespoir qui nous fait perdre confiance à nos neurones.
Ce livre essai de démontrer que ces derniers n'ont pas de limite.
Je recommande fortement ce livre pour se reconcilier avec nos têtes.
Personnellement je commence à apprendre ces techniques à mes petits..
Really enjoyed the perspective Tony gives you on the workings of the mind. I rate a book like this by the way it makes me pause and think differently, which 'Use Your Head' does. Even further how it will make me change my practices. With a couple of strategy papers that I need to read I intend to apply these principles and see what difference it makes.
Một cuốn sách rất hay hướng dẫn cách sử dụng trí tuệ con người sao cho hiệu quả. Sơ đồ tư duy là một khái niệm không còn mới nhưng rất nhiều người không hiểu kĩ về nó, ngay cả những người đã và đang sử dụng nó. Hãy hiểu kĩ về cách thức bộ não làm việc để rồi chọn và hành động làm việc, học tập một cách thông minh.
I'm just disappointed the way he says "now i'll show you how to do it" or "we will learn" but at the end i realize he created huge expectations on it, but gave less. Btw i knew all the memory tricks that book included.
Kinda disappointed reading this. Most of the techniques in this book can be found online - mind maps, speedread, flashcards, charts etc. It does elaborate on reading mindset and psychology in regards to understanding how the mind works in remembering stuff, however, I don't find it very helpful.
الكتاب ممتاز، ولكنه من نوعية الكتب التي لا أحبها رغم أهميتها، فمن الواجب علينا أن نعلم ماهية عقولنا وكيفية عملها وما هي طربقة التعلم والحفظ والمذاكرة قبل البدء بالتعلم، فهذا سيسهل علينا كثيرا؛ في هذا الكتاب ستجد شرحا مبسطا لتلك الأمور مع بعض التطبيقات التي لم أنتبه لها؛ حقا ستستفيد.
En av de tidigare Buzan-böckerna (skriven 1974) och inte lika slipad som de som kommer senare. Men självklart finns det många bra knep i den här boken och den lär dig bland annat hur du kan läsa texter snabbare så tiden du investerar i att läsa boken får du säkert igen.
يستحق القراءة، إلا أن الترجمة جاءت ضعيفة
loved it !
Sách khá hữu ích, có những tips hay để giúp mình nhớ lâu hơn và học tốt hơn. Tuy nhiên, những tips này cũng hơi khó vận dụng và cũng tùy thuộc vào từng người nữa.
Dit boek bevat goede tips. Het was lastig om door te lezen. Op sommige momenten kon het onderwerp of de manier waarop het geschreven was, me niet boeien. Ik bewaar het nog even als naslagwerk.
A must read book for those who are concerned with education and human mind
I didn't quite get what I was after, but did find some useful tricks that will hopefully improve my learning and my attitude towards it in future.The book covers how to read more quickly, simple memory tricks such as mnemonics, taking notes by using key "hook" words and phrases, mind mapping and the Organic Study Method.
I would have preferred a book that was a little more structured, though perhaps that's my linear brain talking!A lot of the information I'd heard or intuited before, such as using mnemonics effectively and elements of the Organic Study Method, but it was still useful to see it written down in a more structured way.
It is a fact of life that we all under-use our brains, and as a result of ‘life’ have the creativity that it can offer stamped out over a lifetime.
This is not a good thing as we are all being told that in order to survive economically we need to be thinking smarter, not just harder.Use Your Head, by Tony Buzan has now been published for over 40 years now, and is the result of a lifetime of experience on the part of the author.
Tony’s interest in the brain was started after a visit to a library and being told that there wasn’t a user manual for the brain.
