https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765093.Treason_s_Harbour
Stationed on Malta during the later Napoleonic War, Captain Jack Aubrey and his friend, Dr. Stephen Maturin are embroiled in Mediterranean intrigue that takes them to Egypt and the Red Sea.While O'Brian is one of my favorite authors, this is not one of my favorite books of his.
Davies is a dangerously powerful gorilla of a man, who has gladly attached himself to his captain after an episode in which Aubrey rescued him from drowning.
Davies addition to any book is usually for the purposes of humor and/or when a meatheaded amount of a strength or stupid-courage is needed.
I take solace from the fact that my situation is not much different from that of Dr. Stephen Maturin, who is similarly baffled on board ship, even after nine voyages in the company of his friend, Captain Jack Aubrey.
I am starting my review with these peaceful pursuits as a result of the bloody battles at the end of the  Ionian Mission  , battles that may have brought honour and monetary prizes to Jack Aubrey, but that also put both of the ships he sailed on,  The Worcester  and  The Surprise , out of action and in need of extensive repairs in the port of Malta.
O'Brian does change things up a bit with this one that spends as much time on land as on water.
It was nice to get a literary exposure to spots one will spend a few days or a week in.
Yet another fine nautical gem, though clearly a piece with its successor, given the abruptly hewn finale, leaving me with the heavy burden of reading on.
10)crackit gaberlunzie (n): apparently a half-witted beggar, according to WikiPOBia (bless it!), though it provides no citation.
A "gaberlunzie" is apparently a Medieval Scots term for a beggar, and I assume "crackit" can only mean something like "cracked" (this would certainly suggest so).
61)hangi (n): clearly some kind of bird, as Stephen says, "Will you look at that bird [...:].
"Neeps" are turnips, hackit:crackit::hacked:cracked, but balmogowry is apparently a neologism!
The pace is slower, and it feels much more like a part of an extended series, not a stand-alone work, than the previous novels of his that I've read.
The prose is still a joy to read, elegant and free-flowing, and capable of displaying O' Brian's erudition and knowledge of the period without ever letting them overwhelm the story.The skill and the subtlety and the love with which he draws his characters is still more than apparent, though.
And in general he seemed a fine narrator for the overall flavor of an Aubrey-Maturin adventure, very British, very proper, and sounding in character for the time frame in which the books are set.As for the story itself, now we're talking.
There are quite a few hijinx involving Aubrey being mistaken for her lover while she is in fact trying to seduce Stephen, and Aubrey himself mistakenly believing that Stephen is in fact having an affair with her--all of which provides quite a bit of lovely character interaction between our two principles.Played off against this is Stephen's actual intrigue going on with Mrs. Fielding, as he enlists Mrs. Fielding's willing help to turn the French's efforts against them.
While Jack worries about his ship's repairs, Stephen is being dogged by French spies (who aren't above attempting to honeytrap him), and it seems that the British intelligence network itself has been compromised...I'll be honest - at this point in this series I have lost all objectivity, with Jack and Stephen having become my imaginary best friends and my times aboard ship a blissful holiday from the real world.
No matter what their adventures, and even when there's no adventuring at all, I could roll happily around O'Brian's world and words forever.I doubt it will be long before I find myself devouring number ten.
The French intelligence network is strong in Malta, and Stephen Maturin is tested to his limits to endeavor to thwart it.
The scene then shifts from Malta in the Mediterranean Sea to a slog across the Sinai Desert to the Gulf of Suez and the Red Sea as Jack, Stephen, and the crew of Surprise 'borrow' a ship from the East India Company to pursue the nefarious and scheming French in a devilishly clever little campaign.
From virtually the first page, Patrick O'Brian pulls the reader deeper into the world of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.
Oh, Stephen Maturin, you had me at "underwater diving bell".This is book nine in O'Brian's naval adventure series about British captain Jack Aubrey and his friend/surgeon/spy Stephen Maturin set during the Napoleonic wars, and it is wonderful.
I must admit that even nine books into this series that is rich with period and naval language, I really have only the vaguest notion what a topgallant or a staysail is, but it doesn't matter-- these books are so funny and smart and exciting and fantastic.
Jack and Stephen are again dispatched to the Eastern Med, this time to deal with the situation in a small state on the Red Sea, with the usual intimate, sometimes very exciting account of naval life, Steven’s intelligence work and, of course, his explorations of natural history.Patrick O'Brian is steeped in the period of the early 19th Century and his knowledge of the language, manners, politics, social mores and naval matters of the time is deep and wide.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
They are that rare thing; fine literature which are also books which I can't wait to read more of.
Espionage on the island of Malta plus conflict at sea.
Jack Aubrey is the same at sea, but rather like a fish out of water on land.
These stories seem to switch between Maturin being the star in port or land with Jack Aubrey being a total master and commander aboard ship.
The espionage angle of this story is very gripping.
As Maturin uncovers things we are presented with more puzzles for future stories.
This leads to a great duel of ships at sea.Another enjoyable part of the Aubrey/Maturin saga.
I've already got the following story to this.
However, while on one hand the narrator appears completely immersed in the period in which the novels take place, at the same time he is clearly not and writes with a distinct detachment, watching the to-and-fro on both land and sea from a distance, with wry amusement and ever-present irony.And irony is, I think, the key word here – the author who O’Brian makes me most think of is not Jane Austen (whose irony, it seems to me, is more of the tongue-in-cheek variety and something quite different) but Thomas Mann the vast majority of whose narrators also cultivate this involved-but-not-really-commited attitude (and his protagonist often as well – as when Joseph is said to have become in all respects like an Egyptian – “but with reservations”).
The continuing adventures of Dr.Maturin and his bff, Captain Aubrey of the Royal Navy.
Aubrey is able to showcase his incredible seamanship, strategy, and leadership, while Maturin's naturalist excusions are a humorous counterpoint to his intelligent manipulations.
(view spoiler)[Particularly annoying was his continued trust in Ray, because there were numerous clues that Ray was involved with the French, and Maturin had absolutely no reason to trust Ray.
(hide spoiler)] And thirdly, the book ends right in the middle of a spy plot and right before more ship battles!
Another highlight is the visit of Mrs Fielding to the ship Surprise, which results in the crew’s language improving remarkably: ‘It was pleasant to hear the bosun cry, “Oh you… unskilful fellow” when a hand called Faster Doudle, staring aft at Mrs. Fielding, dropped a marline-spike from the maintop, very nearly transfixing Mr. Hollar’s foot.’ As ever, the dialogue is filled with wonderful puns and perfect comic timing, as well as constant affection for the characters.
It is the absurd details of character that make this series a joy to read.
I started this book over a year ago ...
Probably for me, the longest period of time between the start and finish of a book.
it just seems to rule our world so much and I long for time when people actually had to use their intelligence to write a letter instead of using text speak.1st vocab word of this book: Holden was already sitting at his old shipmate's table, one hand holding a glass of wine, the other stretched out, pointing at a singularly magnificent diamond spray in Jack Aubrey's hat.
'It is a chelengk,' said Jack with some complacency.
The ending was a little abrupt, coming fast on the end of a sea chase/battle, as is the case with most of the books in this series. But I overall enjoyed this one more than the previous book (Ionian Mission). It was nice to see the boys interacting with a chick, a thorny situation fraught with problems both in and out of the boudoir.The absence of Pullings made me sad, but I managed to survive the disappointment.
Read on walks, at 1.5 speed. Was a bit disappointed that this episode ended abruptly in midcourse (though not on a cliffhanger)...and feel disinclined right now to go on to the next. Series fatigue?
Jack Aubrey, captain of the small frigate Surprise, and Stephen Maturin, who is Aubrey’s best friend, the surgeon of the Surprise, and—unknown to many—an agent for British intelligence, are in Malta.
Her husband is being held captive by the French, and their agents are manipulating her into attempting to wrest secrets from Aubrey or Maturin, both of whom struggle with temptation.As always, O’Brian’s account abounds in nautical detail from the age of sail, which miraculously doesn’t impede one’s overall grasp, and is also rich in many other aspects of language, social custom, natural history (as much of science used to be called), medicine, and political and military history.
Great return to form after the doldrums of The Ionian Mission.
Two bits that I love: "the city of Valetta was as cheerful as though it were fortunate in love or as though it had suddenly heard good news." And Captain Aubrey looking through the stern-window: "This was a sight that never failed to move him: the noble curve of shining panes, wholly unlike any landborne window, and then the sea in some one of its infinity of aspects; and the whole in silence, entirely to himself.
It has been quite a few years since I have read any of Patrick O'brian's Aubrey/Maturin books. I just happened to pick up Treason's Harbour at the library while reading John Sugden's second volume of his moumental Nelson biography. I was not disappointed. I thoroughly enjoyed Treason's Harbour, perhaps because my reading of the Nelson biography added so much background information.Most of my past reading (and it was quite awhile ago) of Patrick O'Brian's series was disjointed and not in order. Now I plan to read the series in order and expect to be absolutely thrilled by the experience.
Audio book versionThrilling action. If you haven't already read this phenomenal series because you don't care for historical fiction or you aren't interested in "naval" adventures you are doing yourself a disservice. These books are remarkable. They are, in fact, one gigantic book, far greater in breath than War and Peace (which I sometimes read as a short treat after finishing this saga).
This is one of my favorites from this wonderful series of historical fiction. There is a lot to enjoy in this book: marvelous description of Malta and the harbor town of Valetta; a journey across the Egyptian desert and south down the Red Sea; humor, betrayal, and intrigue; and especially the richness and depth of O'Brian's characters. I love Geoff Hunt's cover art as well.
There is no joy quite like that if going to sea with Stephen and Jack. Lots of intrigue in this one. And some pretty thick suspense over the fate of a lady spy. Plus, a bit of a cliffhanger concerning a mole in the service with the power to do both our heroes some real harm before the next book comes to a close. Great stuff!!
Not O'Brian's finest, but then, it's hard to portray a series of less-than-successful missions in a thoroughly gripping way. One thing I enjoyed about it is that Stephen's intelligence work drives the narrative, rather than Jack's exploits.
This is the best one of this series for me so far. The writing is, as usual, as usual, wonderful. What is important to me, too, in a series if that the character's grow and change as the series goes on, and they do here. They become more themselves.
Very entertaining despite having limited nautical action. I like how the spy stuff is playing a larger role in the overall plot at this point.
Lovely - as always.
Oh, no! A double agent keeps betraying Jack's position to the French, but Stephen can't figure out who it is! He is still clueless at the end of the book! Wake up, Stephen! It is so obvious!!
As ever, reading O’Brian feels less like picking up a novel in isolation and more like dipping into a continuum that spans the twenty volumes in this series; but in this case at least, the book has a simple and concise idea of how its dramatic arc should begin and end.The basic plot is quite simple: we are in Malta, where Stephen is being hunted.
Lesueur makes for an entertaining villain, and it’s especially notable that (for the first time in the series?) the narrative briefly switches to his perspective, away from Stephen and Jack entirely.
Post Captain Jack Aubrey and Ships Surgeon, Warrant Officer and erstwhile Naval Intelligence Officer Dr. Stephen Maturin once again take sail in the Mediterranean in their ongoing quest to do all in their power to help overthrow the regime of the archfiend and scourge to Democratic freedom, the Emperor Napoleon.
Having successfully foiled the French plans in the Ionian sea in the last novel, Aubrey and Maturin take some time to rest and refit themselves, their ship, and what remains of their crew on the island of Malta as they await the next assignment.
