https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7336.J_R_R_Tolkien
I recently read Humphrey Carpenter's book, The Inklings, for a discussion at A Good Story is Hard to Find podcast and it piqued my interest in his biography of one of my favorite authors.
I'm not usually very interested in biographies but read this in record time, which is a tribute to Carpenter's skill in finding a fascinating story in the outwardly mundane life of an Oxford professor.Of course, like Dr. Who's TARDIS, we're all bigger on the inside and Tolkien's inner landscape held a vast imagination coupled with interest in so many topics that he was sometimes unable to finish a project unless prodded by deadlines or friends.
Не бих казала, че съм класически "Властелинът на пръстените" нърд, макар безспорно да харесвам много Средната земя и всичко случващо се в нея.За самия Толкин не знаех почти нищо освен, че е бил професор в Оксфорд.
Винаги съм смятала, че елфическия и мордорския език са били измислени на по-късен етап като един вид добавка към дълбочината и детайлността на света във "Властелинът на пръстените".
Classics, Fiction, Children's Lit, nonfic, and Lewis.) But in a deliberate effort to explore new territories in my reading, recently I've set aside my Alice-in-Wonderland prejudices ("what is the use of a book without pictures or conversations?") and ventured, not without some apprehension, into the world of criticism, apologetics, biographies, and no plots or characters.
Although he is unfailingly precise in the biographical facts, Carpenter's emphasis is on understanding how Tolkien's mind worked.
And that is precisely what Carpenter delivers.
По-нататък изложението задълба повече върху създаването на митологията и детайлите покрай написването на ранните творби (сред които и Силмалирион, въпреки че излиза едва след смъртта на Толкин).
Може би понеже в този период животът на Толкин не е чак толкова вълнуващ, задълбаващите подробностти на моменти ми идваха леко в повече.
Дж. Р. Р. Толкин. Биография: http://izumen.blogspot.bg/2016/07/blo...Толкин беше първият писател, който хвана въображението ми в мрежите на фантастичното, след което го пусна в широкия простор на литературата, където всяка неочаквана среща беше ново приключение. Благодарен съм, че най-накрая получих достъп до един по-личен поглед към изключителния му живот. Струва ми се, че тези от неговия вид вече не крачат по земята и не съм сигурен, че някога отново ще видим някой с подобна големина.Цялата рецензия: http://izumen.blogspot.bg/2016/07/blo...
Since I was a boy, J.R.R Tolkien was my favorite author. So it was natural that sooner or later I will have to read about the man himself. I knew many of the details in this biography, but here was the first time I actually read a complete chronicle of his life. Fascinating work! And more than that, a fascinating man!
Bir Tolkien severim diyorsanız mutlaka okuyun. Muazzam bir çalışma, okurken çok büyük keyif aldım. Ayrıca müthiş bir çeviri ve editörlük var ortada, her haliyle dört dörtlük bir kitap.
Very well researched, and I think Carpenter writes with a lovely tone.
Perhaps the chapters could have been better organized or labelled, but the content is still great.
There are certain sections that are solely about Tolkien's writings, not just Tolkien, but I'd imagine that anyone looking into the life of the man would want to hear info on his works as well.I'm lucky this is the first biography on Tolkien I picked up, as it seems to have been the first one written, back in the 1970s, shortly after his death.
Složio bih se sa tim, budući da me užasavaju romansirane biografije pojedinih pisaca ili poznatih ličnosti, koje sam pokušavao da čitam i ostavljao ih, zgrožen utiskom da me podsećaju konceptom na materijale iz "žute štampe", te sam se čitave četiri godine, otkako mi ova knjiga stoji na polici, opirao da je pročitam.
Osim što je nepristrasno pristupio analizi, po etapama, Tolkinovog života, tako je u jednom delu knjige analizirao i njegov književni opus, pokrivajući time gorenavedenu opasku samog Tolkina u vezi sa pisanjem biografije.
It is neither a book-length endorsement nor a character assassination, but an attempt at portraying the man's life fairly.
It's very easy to read and enjoyable, including just the right sort of facts to interest the reader -- allowing us to laugh at him a little as well as love him more.Tolkien studies can be criticised as being too biographical -- Tolkien himself would have disliked that preoccupation among academics a great deal -- but it's worth reading to get an idea of his background, his intentions, the 'leaf mould' from which his work grew.
As a Tolkien fan, this was great! I got a new insight into the life of this history-changing author! After reading, I picked up the Hobbit again and fell into Middle-earth again. A must-read for fans of JRR Tolkien's works!
Работата на Карпентър ме впечатли със своята стегнатост и подреденост. Той вниква внимателно и деликатно във вътрешния свят на автора, като истински биограф претегля положително и отрицателното без да изпада до нивото на съвременните търсачи на сензации. Постигнато е равновесие между представянето на личния и писателския свят на Толкин, отключвайки първоизточниците на историята за Средната земя, намиращи се както в научната сфера, така и във всекидневния живот и предпочитания на създателя й.
Je commence l'année avec un coup de coeur pour cette biographie passionnante de Tolkien. J'ai tout simplement adoré découvrir la vie de cet auteur qui me fascine : aussi bien l'homme, le professeur que l'écrivain.
This official biography takes a look at the man behind those books and it does that while being fully aware of Tolkien's own dislike of biography as an attempt to understand the works themselves better (one of the professor's many strongly held opinions).
Instead, this biography simply tells the story of Tolkien's life and paints a portrait of the man's personality and for a devoted fan, that in itself is interesting enough.
If there is answer to be found in this book, it would seem to be that Tolkien simply tuned into some signal only he could receive, and became a historian for a world only he had heard about.
„Започва път от моя праг.“ Този път в огледалния свят на „Дж.Р. Р.Толкин. Биография“ от Хъмфри Карпентър. Огледален, защото насочва погледа в обратната посока, разрушава енигмата около образа на писателя като божество, оголва го до човешка форма, но все пак свят, защото гради нови пространства, подрежда хронологически цяло едно съществуване, придавайки му плътност.Хъмфри Карпентър започва историята на бащата на фентъзито с нейния край, за да придаде по-горчива приказност на началото на цяла една литературна епоха. Животът на личността Толкин е също толкова невероятен, дори в делничността си, колкото и творбите, с които израстват няколко поколения.http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2016/07/blo...
I read this book in my freshmen year of high school and found it both enjoyable and fascinating in the way that most biographies are. If you enjoy hearing the history of ones doings, which in this case are both full of Love, Learning, Literature, Fun times, Old Friends, Family Life, Grief,Loss, and much much more: then I am sure you will enjoy this book as much as I did, and even more if you are one of those people who knows Tolkien so well that you have learned elvish.Debra Taron
Je commence l'année avec une lecture parfaite. J'étais si heureuse d'en apprendre plus sur la vie de Tolkien. C'est aussi la meilleure biographie d'un auteur que j'ai pu lire. Maintenant j'ai hâte de lire le livre d'Humphrey Carpenter sur le groupe des Inklings.
Por lo que he leído, es la mejor biografía de J.R.R. Tolkien que se ha escrito, y es bastante interesante realmente.
Върна ме в Средната земя с тази история за още един хобит.
This is the official biography of Tolkien, which means it was approved by the Tolkien estate. While it was a very informative and interesting read, it is also biased. The book glosses over many details to create a comprehensive narrative. I’m not a big bio person, but this was quite easy to read and I found it engaging. Fun to get more understanding on an author I have enjoyed.
Carpenter beschreibt in seiner Tolkien- Biographie das Leben eines Menschen, der mir unerhört sympathisch ist, zum einen, weil sein Sprach- und Weltenschöpfertum für ihn niemals etwas anderes als ein persönliches Steckenpferd war, von dem er nicht erwartete, dass es ihm jemals kommerziellen oder sonstigen Erfolg einbringen könnte (die Mehrheit seiner Kollegen belächelten ihn dafür, die allermeisten anderen Menschen seiner Umgebung verstanden ihn schlicht nicht)- er tat es einfach, weil er es liebte.Zum anderen weil er so sehr in seinen persönlichen Vorlieben und seinem ganzen Charakter den Hobbits ähnlich ist, wie er von sich selbst einmal schreibt: "Ich bin selber ein Hobbit, in allem bis auf die Größe.
I honestly really enjoyed reading a book about my favorite author. He was a very simple man with an enormous imagination. I really want to reread The Lord Of The Rings and The Hobbit, but gosh darn my TBR-pile got big again after easter break.
S. Lewis and Tolkien to very interesting, yet just as interesting, was the extreme difference in their writing styles: C.
S. Lewis was able to write a large number of books because he did not extensively edit or revise every piece of writing whereas Tolkien's literary output was far lower because of his perfectionism and because of his habit of taking revision and editing to the extreme (to Tolkien revision meant almost completely rewriting the whole work until was a completely different piece of writing.) This excellent biography has gotten me wanting to read The Inklings, also by Humphrey Carpenter.
Tolkien.
This one is a bit more credible then most because the author sat down and actually spoke to Tolkien, but anyways, I think he did a wonderful job of telling Tolkien's tale!
This book goes through Tolkien's life, his works, his friendships, his relationships, all the way up to his death.
I loved discovering new things I didn't actually know about him or his works, and the author did a great job of telling it like a narrative rather than how you normally think of a nonfiction work.Highly recommend for Tolkien fans!!
Union Theological Seminary in New York had a long winter "Intercession" during which time they offered intensive courses to keep students on campus. I didn't stay around, but returned for my annual visit to friends and family in the Chicago area. Although I did read serious books during the break, I also devoured the fun books which the school terms did not allow time for. One of them during the winter break of 1977/8 was Carpenter's biography of Tolkien, an author I'd been very fond of as a child.
Carpenter writes, "Tolkien himself did not entirely approve of biography. Or, rather, he disliked its use as a form of literary criticism." Tolkien didn't like biography for the purpose of better understanding an author's work. Carpenter pays his respects to this judgment within a biography, where, though he refrains from criticism, he greatly helps one to understand the man and thus, his works. Because I am so thankful for Tolkien's work, I'm thankful for Carpenter's. An excellent biography.
Wow. I learned so much about Tolkien through this book!! I always thought that Tolkien just sat down one day, and said, "I want to write a best-selling book," and then went at it. But, it has given me a lot of hope and realization that, as an aspiring author, that even the big dogs had trouble sometimes writing their books. It was so great to get a glimpse of Tolkien's life, and in how "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings" was written and imagined.
Önünde Ağaç, kendi ağacı duruyordu bitmiş olarak. Niggle'ın da hep hissedip sezdiği ama bir türlü yakalayamadığı gibi yaprakları açıyor, dalları uzuyor ve rüzgarda eğiliyorsa, bu Ağaca canlı bile denebilirdi belki de... Ona baktı ve yavaşça kollarını açtı.  "Bu bir armağan! " dedi.Tolkien gerçekten bizim için büyük bir armağan. Kitap bitince aklıma gelen ya birinci dünya savaşında Ç.K.B.C kulübünden arkadaşları gibi ölseydi ve bizlere Orta dünya'nin kapılarını hiç açamasaydı oldu. Aynı zamanda Christopher Tolkien'i daha iyi anladım. İyi ki yaşadın, iyi ki yazdın. Kitap son derece başarılı, aynı zamanda çeviri yine harika. Çiğdem Erkal'a çok teşekkürler.
Tolkien je verejnosti známy predovšetkým ako autor Hobita a trilógie Pán prsteňov, málokto však vie, čo všetko za ich napísaním stojí. Biografia je rozsiahlym a obsiahlym dielom, ktoré mapuje život tohto jedinečného a výnimočného autora. Čitateľ sa dozvie mnoho detailov z jeho života a o niečo viacej pochopí autora samotného a udalosti či pohnútky, ktoré viedli k napísaniu jeho kníh a ktoré ich svojím spôsobom ovplyvnili. Tolkien bol úžasným človek. A po prečítaní jeho biografie mám znova chuť sa ponoriť do sveta Stredozeme.
Alright, so I was expecting to like reading about Tolkien but at the same time was worried the book might be a difficult read for me. Thankfully I was wrong about that. It was a fantastic reading experience. I was hooked from the first chapter. The writing flowed beautifully presenting the man behind Middle Earth in all aspects of life. I learned so much about Tolkien’s background, intellectual pursuits and motivation. Hard for me to say more at this point, it is a complex work and if you are interested in Tolkien, I highly recommend you pick this book up.
