https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37296.Night_Prey
He loves her, but he’s still a man-ho and an attractive TV reporter has caught his eye.The villains set the tone in the Prey books, and Koop is a worthy and creepy addition to their ranks.
Koop's simplistic, wary and anti-social nature makes him a hard target for the kind of subtle manipulation that Lucas usually uses.
With a new job and a live-in girlfriend, this is where we start seeing a more mature and responsible side of Davenport in future books rather than just the rich-cop-playing-by-his-own-rules we’d had up until now.Next: Lucas matches wits with a gamer in Mind Prey.
As is often the case in this series, Lucas Davenport, the police detective protagonist, is confronted by a particularly clever and chilling antagonist.
Fortunately for Connell, Davenport, whom everyone admits is the most brilliant detective in Minnesota, is assigned to the case of Koop's latest victim.
Connell manages to convince Davenport that there is a serial killer at work and Connell and Davenport are assigned to work the case together.It's not an easy partnership, and it's made even more difficult because Connell is dying and has only a short time to live.
Another excellent story featuring Sanford's homicide detective Lucas Davenport on the heels of butchering cat burglar. 9 of 10 stars
This is one of my favourites of the series so far.This was crass, intelligent, sophisticated, fast, gruesome, cunning and incredibly page-turning. Even though this is part of a series, I definitely think it could still be read as a standalone. John Sandford has very quickly become a favourite author of mine.
The mystery is how Lucas & company are going to catch the guy.
I love the false leads & serious amount of time they spend yet how well Sandford conveys it.
Really good characters too, save for the bad guy.
I hope Lucas can go after someone that isn't so obviously unhinged in future books.
On to the next.(I'm cleaning the shop up & that means some rearranging, so I can either listen to music or a book that doesn't take a lot of thought.
Even so, I had to revert to music a few times.
Enjoyable read, but the ending was predictable. Recommended.
Lucas Davenport is BACK, our favorite detective! He almost died, last book, in love, and on another case. Time is running out for his partner....Soooo much ACTION, you cannot put this book down.
Koop is addicted to cocaine.
Koop is addicted to Sara Jensen.
Koop is a serial killer.
She has worked serial cases before and has an awesome closing rate.
Her and Davenport do not see eye to eye on the way they should work the case, but somehow they make it work.
With Connell dying from cancer, she wants more than anything to get the psychopath who is not only killing these women, but ripping them apart.
With barely any leads and no evidence left at the murder scenes, Davenport and Connell do not have much to go on.
Koop will not stop until he kills Sara.
Audio narrated by Richard Ferrone along with digital paperbackA bit slow at the beginning which was the pace for Davenport returning to the police force. Superb writing, very little flat spots in the story telling.
Wow.Lucas Davenport is on the police force once again, having been appointed Deputy Chief by Rose Marie Roux, the new police Chief in Minneapolis.
Women are so useful.Davenport really wants this guy, as does the entire police force.
Connell is absolutely stunning as a character, and I couldn't stop thinking about her.
Although this book is an excellent addition to the Davenport series and completely fits in with the gothic plots the author has established, I found myself feeling Connell was too heartbreaking to forget as just another beach read character.Lighting a candle now.
Another trip for me through the Lucas Davenport universe. Lucas is asked by the Chief to look into a detective's claim that a serial killer is operating in the Minneapolis area. The culprit cruises book store readings and looks for a specific female type: lonely and needy.Davenport uses his web of contacts to gather facts, and coping with the dysfunction of two team members, one struggling with an illness, and one going through the motions of police work. Throw in a beautiful, flirting TV newswoman, and he skirts the line of trouble again.
I made the mistake of starting this and then stopping to read something else. When I came back, it took me a while to sort out who was who. I found it a bit slow from the get go, but once it got moving, it was very intriguing and I had to finish it. Great climax that packs a punch.
So far so good. I'm glad that Lucas did not change overnight because of Weather. :DSlightly different story again, now focusing on the problems of the legal system. Good one!
I’m truly enjoying reading the whole Prey series from the beginning.
Night Prey is book nr 6 and we find Lucas returned to the fold of the Minneapolis Police department as deputy chief.
Before returning, Lucas had been on hiatus, focusing more on his computer simulations business and also spending time in his cabin up in Wisconsin (see Prey book nr 5).
For this case, Lucas has to work together with Meagan Connell, a special investigator working at the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA), who has compiled a hefty file on the killer, and is persuaded that a lot more killings are attributed to this same perpetrator.
This is another excellent addition to Sanford's "Prey" series - but it nearly didn't get read by me.
As a writer/editor myself (albeit always nonfiction), I'm hyper-sensitive to analogies; they make my stomach churn faster than a hamster on a wheel at full gallop.
Those awful analogies blessedly came to a screeching halt, and the plot, which involved trying to identify and catch a literally gut-wrenching killer, turned very interesting.
As always, series hero Lucas Davenport is lovably complex (especially when it comes to women), and also as always, everything turns out pretty much as expected in the end.
Another good one - now on to the next, Mind Prey!
The sixth Lucas Davenport novel and the first that wasn’t a complete success. The core story was of the quality I have come to expect but there was an offshoot to the investigation that was pure filler. I can forgive it because of Sandford’s other strengths. Davenport is forced to partner with a female investigator who is (view spoiler)[terminally ill (hide spoiler)]. How she deals with her problem and how Davenport relates to her throughout the process--while conducting an extremely public investigation--is the essence of the story. It reduces the extraneous stuff to a minor distraction.
We are introduced to the killer, Koop, at the opening.
Koop is your standard killer who had a horrible childhood and is now taking it out on women.
Koop has a few unique characteristics such as picking out victims at used book stores because they are usually timid and shy.I have to say- this was not one of my favorite reads- and even though I wasn't all that crazy about this one story- I am not crazy about Davenport's newest girlfriend either!
On to number 7 in the Prey series- hey, they all can't be fantastic reads!
This one is sixth in the series, written by John Camp under the Sandford pseudonym. I prefer the earlier Lucas Davenports to the later ones. Sandford’s other series, I like even better, especially Virgil Flowers, which has a special brand of humor. The Kidd series suffers from being quite dated technically, when read today, but were excellent when I read them several years (decades?) ago.It’s a good story, although I found Conley’s terminal disease to be implausible in the context of her actions in the story, not to mention Lucas’s little oration on the degrees of rape. That was weird.
Lucas Davenport is on the hunt for Koop, an exceptionally brutal serial killer. He got the case thanks to Megan Connell, a grating woman that is dying and determined to solve the case sooner than later. Davenport is starting to mature in his romantic relationship (at least for this book!). This was a great addition to the series.
Davenport is settling down somewhat with Weather, and accepts a position working with the Minneapolis police department. He has to work with abrasive colleagues and use all his sly detecting skills to lure and capture a sadistic killer.
I've read this one before but could not remember how it ended. With this one, you know exactly who the bad guy is, but you have to wait as Lucas and friends work it out.
Unimpressed with this one and 24 hours later, I can hardly recall what it's about except that the killer is called Koop.
It’s been two years since Lucas was forced to quit.My TakeGotta give Sandford credit for this twist: a detective who’s fired, goes off to build his successful gaming company, and comes back to work.
And I love that Lucas wants to know more about how Weather’s job works.Oh man, I do love how Sandford keeps it down home with Beneteau’s reaction to Ellie Mae being in the wrong bed.Sandford does make his psychopaths real, and I will never understand them.
Not as great as Winter Prey, but you can’t just be fucking batting 1,000 every single day so don’t take that as any kind of diss. Another magnificent villain this time for Lucas to grapple with in the form of Koop, a terrifyingly athletic stalker-killer. There’s scenes in here that will just fucking poison your emotional chemistry, but let’s all admit to being masochistic fuckers and admit that’s what we paid the entry fee for.
20+ years ago some good friends of mine recommended John Sandford the "Prey" series. As I am reading this book, I realize this was the first Prey book I had read way back then. Who can ever forget the SOB's 40 or so Camel cigarette butts??? This is the book that hooked me on Sandford. This book grabs you by the short hairs and never lets go.
Night Prey is the sixth in the Prey series, which I am reading in order. This one is a solid read, a good ending helped made the story. On to the next.
it worked on me so maybe there's something to that.)Somehow I'd never heard of Sandford/Camp and didn't realise at the time this was #6.Coming in mid-way through isn't a huge problem, the ensemble casts' characterisation is a little thin, but probably to be expected at book 6.
It doesn't diminish the main plot and the villan gets more characterisation than the protagonist in any case.The "in the mind of the killer" stuff made me more uncomfortable than it used to - Apparently i've been away from the psycho crime genre for too long.
Not sure if thats good or bad.In any case this book seemed to tick all the genre boxes, but I'm not sure I personally enjoy this genre as much anymore.
Good story, well written. Not my favorite Davenport story so far, though. But nevertheless enjoyable read.
A good thriller. I like these early Davenport stories.
heh...i just finished Swan Peak from James Lee Burke and in that one there is a prison guard....troyce nix...i wonder how this story will stack up alongside burke's?begins:the night was warm, the twilight inviting: middle-aged couples in pastel shirts, holding hands, strolled the old cracked sidewalks along the mississippi.
koop was on the hunt.okay then...not sure about that silver bars thingy...but onward and upward.
update, finished this last night, the 21st, full dark thirty or sogood story...so yeah like i read or skimmed one review said something about koop being a prison guard?
