https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/486050.The_Night_Stalker
If the great, grand City of Angels had an asshole, the downtown area around the terminal would undoubtedly be it.It was from this place that he came, nameless and nocturnal, as silent and deadly as cyanide gas. He always wore black, with the brim of a black baseball cap pulled down low; even his socks and shoes were black. Thus attired, he moved about in shadows, blending and becoming one with them, rarely seen until it was too late.   I have returned. During my absence, I read The Night Stalk
Yes. Richard Ramirez, Ted Bundy, Charles Manson and Jeffrey Dahmer had legions of groupies.
Ok, onto the serious stuff.Richard Ramirez makes Charles Manson look like a boy scout.
Richard, a.k.a. the Night Stalker, murdered 14 people, commited more than a dozen sexual assaults and countless burglaries - all before the age of 25.
In the 1980's, the people of Los Angeles lived in constant fear of The Walk-in Killer/The Valley Intruder/The Night Stalker.
I’ve killed a lot of people, you know.”  This edition features never before seen pictures and an interview with the killer himself.
I feel like a serial killer expert now.
EDIT 27/12 I finally watched most of the movies made out of Ramirez, and can without a doubt say they are worth the skip, stick with the book.Richard "The Night Stalker" Ramirez, the rock star of serial killers (yes, because even in the land of serial killing, there is the same status norm than in any society, some are famous whereas some are not).So, how did a man who was convicted of 13 murders, 5 attempted murders, 11 sexual assaults, and 14 burglaries got to be the poster boy, and the drool worthy object for the ladies all over the world?I guess it is true that exotic looking, mysterious and prophetically gloomy and angst men are the real shit when comes to women's tastes.
The first half of the book is great, following the 13 murders and couple of near fatal rape-assaults of Richard Ramirez in LA in 1984-1985.
Also, it wouldn't be far fetched because Richard believed Satan would protect him, drew pentagrams at some of the scenes of the crime, and made the victims he raped and murdered continuously swear to Satan as opposed to God.The second half of the book, the trial, is too long.
The book is twice as long as it should be, however, it is the most accurately researched book on the Richard Ramirez, aka, the Night Stalker.
Bitches, you've never known love.Doreen, the trashy, piece of shit broad who married Ramirez, the one who actually touched this mans hands, the same hands that did these awful, awful, awful things, said this, "There's something in his eyes - like a little boy who needs help.
Doreen, normal women do not think little boys who need help are sexy.
She wants their "sex to be lubricated with the blood of one of his victims."Now I have to come to terms not only with the fact that we have Ramirez's and Anton LaVey's, LaVey's daughter and "parishioners",the Doreen's, Patty's, Cynthia's and all the other busted bitches, but now I have to come to terms with the fact that "women", like this Tamara, inhabit the world with myself and my daughter.Tamara says no one has the right to judge her.
I couldn't read this book fast enough, it kept me interested all the way through it. The author even did a god job making the reader feel the frustration of the jury through the defense teams inept arguments....Made me want to write to Richard Ramirez, which is a scary thought in itself. To be honest, the book portrays him as a rather intelligent individual that's pleasant to be around....when he isn't raping and killing you, that is.
Such a well researched book. This case has always fascinated me, probably because I remember being scared of the Nightstalker when I was younger. I remember we made sure to lock our doors and windows at the time. You could sense the whole city being on edge when all this was taking place. The book is very detailed and it is a very good read. Hard to put down.
Having served with Special Forces in Vietnam, Mike had a huge collection of stories and photographs of the rapes and murders he perpetrated during that war and regaled a young and aroused Richard with them constantly.
By this point all number of satanists have flocked to his cause, and thousands of completely fucking mental women have 'fallen in love' and start sending fan mail, turning up at court and making googly eyes at him while he snarls and laughs at the evidence and deeply upsetting testimonies of surviving victims.
This is the superior of the two Night Stalker books on Richard Ramirez.
I love true crime and serial killers and the first half of this book was OK.
Great detail about the individual crimes and the men and women hunting the killer.The second half of the book was boring as hell.
You're essentially reading the transcripts from the trial and they aren't interesting.
It would have been nice if the author had given us the highlights of the trial, and not mixed in all the details about The Night Stalkers groupies and eventual wife in with the court transcripts.
There were whole paragraphs in this book I swear he wrote twice.
The only thing a had a problem understading was almost at the end, when Philip Carlo is writing about these women that were attracted to this Richard Ramirez, one actually married him.
this a-hole beat and raped women in the commission of his crimes, how incredibly stupid can these idiots be?!!..What is so fricking attractive about a psychopathic scumbag filled with cowardice?!!..I don't understand this "bad boy image" shit they are talking about!!..I was actually repulsed by this section of the book...
I have nothing against the book, Philip Carlo is a great author.
As sleazy, trashy, sensationalized and exploitive as they tend to be I still have a weakness for true crime books.
What Ramirez did was very disturbing and out and out evil.
In this book the author put it together by doing interviews with Ramirez, the Ramirez family, detectives involved in the case and other people connected to the case in one way or another so I think its pretty credible as far as what actually went down compared to a lot of other true crime books I have read.
It's sad to know that this wasn't fiction.Richard's childhood was a very odd one, starting with the sexual encounter he has with a cousin.
The author of the books seems to insinuate that this is where Richard'd grotesque thoughts began.
The book was an amazing one from a True Crime reader's standpoint because of all the details of the crimes and cases Richard acted on.
We got to knwo about the victim's and were told actual encounters on the crime scenes and how Richard would enter these homes.
The Richard Ramirez cases are interesting and if your a true crime reader, then this is a must to read!

I've followed this case since I learned about it and it's definitely interesting. The Night Stalker has been one of my favorite serial killers to research (not in a bad way). It's just fascinating to learn about why people like these do the things they do. I did a paper on this case for my corrections class and I started it in the beginning of the semester and didn't finish it till the end of the semester. Took me a whole semester and 20 pages to put a well composed paper together. I enjoyed writing about it.
This one scared the crap out of me and made me make sure all doors and windows were locked. Like that would help.
I was always into true crime stories and criminal profiling and this book made me love criminology even more!
Richie as a kid had sustained two head traumas that caused him frontal lobe epilepsy which grew out of it when he was a teenager, witnessed domestic violence and abuse (his dad although a great man, was a hot tempered mexican who beated his kids as punishment and also traumatised his own self in front of them by beating his head with a hammer until blood was covering his face), his teacher was a pedophile, he was taught by his cousin how to kill - how to remain unseen in darkness - how to break into houses etc, he was exposed to drugs (cokaine, heroine, pot, angel dust, lsd - halluciogens) and he became a satanist.
First is a consideration the crimes, then an account of Ramirez’ childhood, the events leading up to his crimes, how he was captured, a very comprehensive reporting of his trial (58 felony charges) that is detailed but fascinating, never boring.
In the Epilogue he reports on Ramirez wedding and the women that have become fascinated with him.
The special update contains a transcript of an interview Carlo had with Ramirez on death row.In the last paragraph I said that the trial coverage was fascinating never boring, that could be said about the entire book.
This book was amazing for someone like me whom is studying the forensic criminal justice field.
To see how a serial killer mind ticks and his ways was really interesting to follow.
I would love if Philip would write a book about each of the famous serial killers.
Overall very an informative book, I used it to help write and present in my college class and received an A for the amount of research I had on hand.
Because believe it or not there isn’t much information on Richard and Philip is about the only one that researched Richard.
Don't do what I did and read this at night home alone with a storm battering your windows. Because this is so unbelieveably creepy that even the knowledge that Richard Ramirez languishes in San Quentin will be of any comfort.Not that this is sensationalist, it doesn't have to be. Also, would someone please write a biography of Frank Salerno? I would read that in a second.
I read a lot of these true crime books, but this one frightened me like no other. I almost put it down a couple of times, but I stuck with it. It is meticulously researched, but I did feel that the author should have highlighted the victims in the end and not the Night Stalker. Read it and you will never leave your windows open at night again.
The author really did his reserch including getting pictures, emails from the killer's fans, interviewing and visiting Richard himself. The details are very accurate and the reader feels like they are being taken to the exact location and they are in the moment the crimes are taking place. Great read, reccomended to crime lovers.
Creepy and horrific, if you're a fan of the true crime genre you'll probably know exactly what to expect from it, but it's still worth reading. The Night Stalker could easily pass for a horror novel; I can't believe it's non-fiction! O_o
This was a page-turner, easy to read. My only complaints would be that the second half was a bit repetitive, and the underlying "poor Richard Ramirez" theme was irritating.
Balanced, informed, well written.
The writing style drove me crazy. I had to give up on this one.
He was intelligent, driven by simple, yet complex desires, a Satanist and had a very deranged childhood, seemingly propelled by his family troubles, including a somewhat failed father and older brothers who were all involved in crime and drugs.Add the facts that Ramirez was grown up near a nuclear bomb-testing ground and had some head-trauma at an early age, but that's not as interesting as the following, from the book:Carlo: [...] Your cousin Mike had just returned from the Vietnam and he was stressed because of the war, from being in three tours of duty, and got into an argument one day with his wife and shot her and killed her.
Very well researched with all the details from beginning to end. Ramirez strikes me as a dumb criminal almost retarded.
that said, this had a lot of minor editing concerns (primarily swapping of names, especially when discussing richard's large hispanic family)--if Richard's father Julian had truly "aged twenty years" every time Carlo uses the phrase, he'd have been a hundred--and the third part (trial coverage) was exceedingly boring.
i'm unsure how bugliosi managed to make trial coverage so exciting in  Helter Skelter; no one else has done it nearly as well.
discussion of richard's "trial groupies" (one of whom eventually married him on death row) was pretty interesting.
The crimes and his background were horrible and interesting.
My interest started to lag during the very long and detailed trial.
I don't mind the court proceedings parts of true crime books unless they take up to much time.
I was really getting tired of reading about the trial in this book.
If you are a person that enjoys the trial part of true crime books, you would probably love it.
Turns out he died this year!
He spent 23 years on "death row" just to die of cancer.
But overall, I liked the book.
It's a very different book from my usual tastes but i thoroughly enjoyed it and might buy some more surrounding crime.The first part of the book was very gruesome but thrilling to read.
That bit came second to the best part of the book.
The epilogue was very good.Gave us some more insight to Ramirez's life after being convicted.
The marriage between him and Doreen was sweet and she was hopefully be a good influence oh him but i feel like he felt no love for her.
I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a crime book.
