https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7437.Naked_Lunch
”The title means exactly what the words say: NAKED lunch--a frozen moment when everyone sees what is on the end of the fork.” The book title was suggested by Jack Kerouac. If not for the intervention of William S. Burroughs friends, Naked Lunch would have never seen the light of day. Peter Orlovsky, Allen Ginsberg, and Jack Kerouac decided to visit Burroughs in Tangiers and see if they could salvage any of the fragmented writing that had been dripping from the mind of Burroughs while he was nurs
You might be thinking at this point in the review that you might want to read this book.
The quotes I’ve selected to share in this review are nowhere near the worse or most perverse of the writing that will be experienced in this book.
From the 20 pages I've read so far, it seems like starting a heroin habit is a bad idea.
5/5 Θεωρώ πως δεν πρέπει να πιάσει κανείς στα χέρια του το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο εαν πρώτα δεν μάθει τα πάντα για την θρυλικά δραματική ζωή του Γουίλιαμ Μπάροουζ.Είναι ένα φρικαλέο,απαίσιο, σιχαμερό,προσβλητικό,σκανδαλώδες,χυδαίο,ανήθικο,διεφθαρμένο,hardcore πορνογράφημα,μυθικά σατιρικό και θρυλικά ώμο.
Εθισμένος σε σκληρές ναρκωτικές ουσίες,περιπλανητής του κόσμου, ομοφυλόφιλος,τυχοδιώκτης,συζυγοκτόνος και προφητική μορφή στην εξέλιξη της λογοτεχνίας.Μια σιχαμένη ιδιοφυΐα,ένα απαίσιο μεγαλοφυές μυαλό που πιστεύει πως η γλώσσα είναι ένας ιός απο το διάστημα.
Αποτελεί σίγουρα προφητική περιγραφή μελλοντικών εξελίξεων και ως πραγματική ουσία του μυθιστορήματος περιγράφεται « η Αποκαθήλωση και η Βεβήλωση της Ανθρώπινης εικόνας απο τους ελεγχομανείς που διασπείρουν τον ιό του εθισμού».
WARNING: nasty language ahead, including the use of some of my favorite phrases from the novel; these include such choice nuggets as mugwump jism and to turn a massacre into a sex orgy and a bubbly thick stagnant sound, a sound you could smell and the subject will come at his whistle, shit on the floor if he but say Open Sesame. anyway, I’ll be honest, mugwump jism, it took me a while to get into Naked Lunch, to turn a massacre into a sex orgy. Three attempts, to be exact, a bubbly thick stagnan
WARNING: nasty language ahead, including the use of some of my favorite phrases from the novel; these include such choice nuggets as mugwump jism and to turn a massacre into a sex orgy and a bubbly thick stagnant sound, a sound you could smell and the subject will come at his whistle, shit on the floor if he but say Open Sesame.
all of that actually became inspirational, in both the challenge of its intent and the radical nature of its result; and so the subject will come at his whistle, shit on the floor if he but say Open Sesame.

This book is beautiful in a sick-grotesque-wild-hilarious-creative-mind-bending-outlandish-drug-filled-dirty-brave kind of way.
I can’t recommend Naked Luncht to anyone; it’s as graphic as the imagination allows.
In fact, I would say that it’s the sickest book I’ve ever read, but I just happened to read Bataille’s Story of the Eye the other day, too.
If you can’t handle or don’t like this kind of thing, that’s fine with me: what you prefer and decide to read affects me very little; and it’s your right, really.
But that’s beside the point, really, because Naked Lunch is powerfully imaginative and creative.
I think that Naked Lunch is a brilliant book, an that Burroughs is one of our century's great literary geniuses.
In a way, reading Burroughs is like reading the Bible...
You kind of have to read it in spurts and fits, which is probably how it was written.That said, I've read Naked Lunch at least four times, but never read it all the way through, from front to back.
I will read Naked Lunch from cover to cover, and finally figure out how I feel about it.The Bible is gonna have to wait its turn.
I almost liked the book for this over-the-top ghastliness alone.
For example, Burroughs used the phrase "cancelled eyes" conspicuously often.
While it's an apt enough way to describe the expression of someone floating through a drug haze, his overuse of the term struck me as a little too self-congratulatory, as if he was thinking, "Burroughs, you magnificent bastard!
Do it again!" And that sort of characterized the whole half of the book I finished--it seemed like Burroughs' critical abilities were blinded by his love for his own shock-value-saturated meanderings.
Oh boy.
One part of me wants to throw this novel away because some parts are written like a 15-year-old's first foray into erotic fanfiction while another part of me wants to hail this as a masterpiece of filth that would make John Waters sick.
So I'm going to settle in the middle.
There are some parts of this novel that made me go "what the actual fuck" but I like that.
I like it when literally every boundary is pushed as far as it can go.
The prose is nonsensical and disorientating which is probably what Burroughs wanted.
I enjoyed this novel.

I've just seen that there is a David Cronenburg film of this book.
The only other person who could have filmed this is perhaps John Waters, and he's maybe a bit friendly.If you've read the book and ever watched a Cronenburg film, you're eyes just bugged out and jaw dropped at the idea of it, right?
But a recommendation - if you like Burroughs, try Jean Genet, especially Our Lady of the Flowers.
Burroughs and Genet, felons and addicts both, Genet the more lyrical of the two, both soared to the highest heights of twentieth century experimental fiction.
Naked Lunch tips the reader right off a cliff into the deep end of an Heroin Dream, starting us right at the gross end of bodies breaking down, moving on to 1984-like Reconditioning Centers for total mental reprogramming, thank you very much, and then moving into the skull of a paranoid delusional fever dream of homosexuality and then alien societies.If I could pick all of the heaviest hot-topics of the day and cram them all together into the heaviest fever pitch of a "normal's" fear, paranoia, misconceptions, and conspiracy theories, making the prose into a Beat-Poetry slam, and then fearlessly drowning the reader in jizz, then this is the book I'd point to as the poster child of all the books that would come after.Seriously.
Even extreme disgust gets old after about 50 pages.
Maybe it does belong on the list - in which case, I want to know the purpose of such lists.I don't feel like I read this so much as survived it.
You can bet I will not be reading the other two Burroughs novels on the 1001 books list.
Though I have a feeling that a couple of others on the list are going to turn me off in the same way.I guess this is one you're supposed to read in the interests of being engaged in pop and drug culture, but my rec?
Burroughs is a corrosive mash-up of Hunter S.
But then consider that this was published in 1959 and the depth of the virulent impact on our literary culture begins to take shape.
If Burroughs was not the original anti-hero, he was at least its dark robed disciple and if not a voice crying out in the wilderness, he was a raspy wheeze coughing up a bawdy limerick in a back alley.
Glad I did, because looking back on the rubbish heap climbed reveals a depth of thought and a sensitive, tortured beauty, like a wildflower sprouting up from amidst the bones of a carcass.
Glenn R --- Speak to us straight about your Lunch that’s bareTwisted, dirty and anything but fair.Your words like needles sticking in our veinsAs you write of dopefiends, coke bugs and dames.
William B --- Rube, the word we use in this world is junkYou’ll hear straight without funny stuff or funk.Read the damn book; I have nothing more to addFor embellishing perfection has never been a fad.This is a one-of-a-kind novel.
I'll be posting a review in the next week.
Couldn't help myself with the rhyming couplets since Burroughs is at the extreme opposite end of the literary spectrum from Alexander Pope, to say the least.
Difícil, muy difícil decir algo sobre esta obra. Desde un punto de vista se puede decir que es un cóctel de locura, droga y sexo, pero, como dice la sinopsis, Burroughs dispara contra las religiones, el ejército, la universidad, la sexualidad, la justicia corrupta, los traficantes tramposos, el colonialismo, la burocracia y la psiquiatría... Todo esto, claro, como una bomba sin sentido de miseria humana. La única parte lúcida de esta obra, la encontramos al inicio y al final de esta, y esta no deja de ser más turbadora que el resto.
Reading this was just a different experience: you don't know where Burroughs would take you every time you lift the page, you don't know who would appear as the characters and what they would say or do, you don't know how he could write with brilliant originality and fluidity.
It is like being taken for a ride but you know that the ride would be simply a memorable one because you gasp as you go through each line of this book.
I mean, I had no experience whatsoever with any prohibited drugs and still I found this book amazing.
I'd love to rate this one higher, but however groundbreaking it was at the time, I always felt that Burroughs went on to produce much better books.
"Naked Truth" might've been a better title, if it weren't such a meaningless cliché.
Instead, the reader is forced to eat the truth, finally seeing "what is on the end of that long newspaper spoon." For an audience so accustomed to spoon-fed bullshit, Naked Lunch was and still is a refreshing menu option.Don't stop there, though, kiddies, don't stop there....
Make no mistake, reading this book is an endurance test.
It reads as if the author had a Harvard education and a severe drug problem, which was the reality for Burroughs at this point in time.
I usually hate movies based on books that I have read, but this movie can almost be seen as a supplement to the book.
It hits the major points of the book, but also fills in the background of what was going on in Burroughs life during the writing of the book in a very Surrealistic fashion.
Naked Lunch is a symphony of smut; a fever-dream of filth; a hallucination; a work of art. This is not a novel that charts an easy course. It is wild, erratic, crude to the extreme, and largely incomprehensible but for occasional moments of clarity. There is genius in these naked pages, a raw and fractured genius, the voice of the depraved and drug-addled, mainlined, unfiltered, directly into the vein. This lunch is opulent, sumptuous, but excessive, tainted, vomit-inducing. Burroughs's masterpiece is certainly an experience, though not a pleasant one.
This book needs plenty of warnings on the front. Possibly drive you crazy and scar you for life. He goes to the edge and over full laden with drugs, profanity, sex, grossness and sadism. I think he has gone a bit too extreme, it seems that was his purpose to hit a nerve and cause revulsion in the reader.
I shot heroin for a decade, and at the time, I had this wrongful solidarity towards the culture and arts that surrounded it.My first exposure to Burroughs was the novel Junky - a trashy pulp book with a thin plot.
I'm getting through long-winded books like Infinite Jest, War and Peace, etc.
If a work of art is just shock value, if the only emotion it can evoke is confusion, then the writer has accomplished nothing; just an esoteric puzzle, people can falsely intellectualize to try and sound sophisticated to other people.I read this in a prison cell.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Hmmmmmm, what can I say about Naked Lunch????? I think I’ll let the immortal words of Gwen Stefani speak for me . . . I’ll gladly admit I’m probably too stupid to see the genius that Burroughs created with this book, but I just don’t see it. A series of incoherent ramblings from a drug-addled mind published in order to blur the boundary between art and obscenity that just don’t stand the test of time. 50+ years ago, this work was shock
I’ll gladly admit I’m probably too stupid to see the genius that Burroughs created with this book, but I just don’t see it.
A series of incoherent ramblings from a drug-addled mind published in order to blur the boundary between art and obscenity that just don’t stand the test of time.
only caused me to wonder why I continued wasting my time on this book instead of moving on to one of the other 17,000,000 on my to-read list.In my opinion, if you want to read something from a – how should I put it – um, “medicinally inspired” author, then pick up some Hunter S.
God, I hope this doesn't intrude on my dreams...As far as I can tell, Naked Lunch is a series of drug related or induced experiences.
Creepy, trippy, and unnecessary, the words sucked me in, to this awful place where Burroughs twisted words and facts and made drugs interesting and disturbing and not the slightest bit real or frightening.
There are scenes that should be more disturbing than they were but since I felt so distanced from the book, any bit of reality hiding in the pages was lost on me.
Considering Naked Lunch and Fear and Loathing, the latter was at least funny at times, and completely coherent in comparison.
"Nothing is true; everything is permitted,"- Vladimir Bartol Chinese translation: 萬事皆虛 諸事可為This book is purely crazy (tons of crazy shit have gone on in this story), that's all I can tell you after I finished reading the Chinese translation (published in Taiwan). I also admit I don't think I fully understand what William S. Burroughs tried to tell us, and some parts of the story really tend to drag on and on for no good reason.The whole story reads like a series of junkie's nightmarish, incoher
Chinese translation: 萬事皆虛 諸事可為This book is purely crazy (tons of crazy shit have gone on in this story), that's all I can tell you after I finished reading the Chinese translation (published in Taiwan).
Burroughs tried to tell us, and some parts of the story really tend to drag on and on for no good reason.The whole story reads like a series of junkie's nightmarish, incoherent drug trips or a really messed up hard-boiled thriller, a lot of sex, violence, drug and even murder and sexual abuse.
Some parts of the story even read like cyberpunk, but I admit not everyone will like this book.
Found this file I started on my computer June 9, 2007:Hypertext Reading of Naked LunchReading Naked Lunch as it was intended: open the book at any page and just read what is there.
Am a bit anal about these things, so I'm not going to cut in the middle of a chapter...going to read nearest chapter from where I pry open the book.
The book is never meant to end, because it's an immortal junky's nightmare.
Purgatory in a carnival funhouse, and the electricity's been cut off.
1. The Black Meat (pgs.
Interzone (pgs.161-168)3.
Have You Seen Pantopon Rose (pgs.
(pgs.
I kind of detest Burroughs for his abuse of boys in Morocco, but his writing was influential and a quote a trip to read. This particular book - one of his most famous - is a druggy trip from the US to Mexico. It is sort of On the Road but taking about 10x more mescaline and cocaine and acid than Kerouac and his friends did. If you want to get a feeling for the crazy off the rails atmosphere of the 60s, this is the book for you.
I'm not an uber beat generation guru, but I'm fairly certain that Naked Lunch is the final destination to the journey started by Jack Kerouac in  On the Road . It is very rhythmic (try reading it out loud) but also incredibly stream-of-conscious, much more so than Kerouac's novel (and he can get pretty damn stream-of-conscious). This novel depicts the life (if you want to call it that) of a junkie in the '60s who travels from America to Mexico and finally lands [halfway across the globe] in Tang
This novel depicts the life (if you want to call it that) of a junkie in the '60s who travels from America to Mexico and finally lands [halfway across the globe] in Tangier.
Because, through all the craziness and chaos of the novel's narration, there is a lucidly clear depiction of alienation and loneliness in the modern world.
Like "William Lee," each of these characters shows us just how human it is to paradoxically crave acceptance into society while we simultaneously push ourselves away.Being a human can sometimes suck big time, and Naked Lunch depicts this unabashedly.
This book makes no sense, not that it matters.
What resulted is a disturbing, satirical, bitter flood of images.
It is a collection of vaguely-linked scenes, images, and flash pieces some humor, some horror, some pornography.
As you might expect, it drags in places, but some of the imagery is so dementedly brilliant that it deserves to be read.
Besides, if you get too tired of it, you can always mark your place and come back to it in a year.
Don't worry--it'll make as little sense as it did before.
I found this book extremely hard to read but I was determined to finish it no matter what.
I am fully aware that it is a book a lot of people have found deep meaning in, so I realize that maybe I just didn't understand it.
I gave it 3 stars because although a lot of it seemed to pass me by, I found glimpses of brilliance in it at times when I could understand what Burroughs was really talking about in certain parts.
To summarize, this book is not for everyone, even for people who revel in enjoying books that are not for everyone.
