https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/212010.David_Starr_Space_Ranger
David Starr, Space Ranger was the first of the Lucky Starr books I found in my Dad's collection -- I had already eaten through all the Robot/Foundation novels from Asimov by this stage, and the Lens Men by E.E.Doc Smith -- and I just kept looking through all the old battered books.
What Asimov created in David Starr, Space Ranger was a character and a story that was simple, straight forward, fast and exciting.
I envision this story rather like a movie, because if you have the right type of imagination, Asimov's beautiful writing style in its un-descriptive manner, will allow your mind to fill-in-the-blanks.
Since the superhero element is so close to the crisis of the story, I won't reveal it, but suffice it to say that it is a gimmick that might work for children (not young adults) but most grown ups will shake their heads and, if they are the indulgent type, smile.David Starr is the kind of clean-cut hero parents of the 1950s wanted to see their kids reading.
Who is this young man, where did he come from, and how did he become such a prodigy?In the edition I read, Asimov entered a preface not quite apologizing for the outdated Mars science.
The villain is obvious to anyone who’s read a mystery novel, but only because of the role he fills in the story and not because his involvement or plan makes any sense.The book’s threat is clear enough: random Martian-grown foodstuffs are being poisoned by unknown conspirators.
I suppose this is a result of a craving for personal motivations over more complicated political theories, but it does make me think of The Iron Dream, which basically sends a big middle finger to these types of stories by writing one from the point of view of Hitler and showing just how few changes are necessary to turn space opera/high fantasy into Nazi propaganda.
Was his series of young-adult Lucky Starr novels merely the public expression of an escapist fantasy universe, or did he intend to win young, intelligent minds to scientific inquiry by showing just how cool science could be?In the first installment, young David Starr, newly inducted into the Council of Science, goes undercover to root out a mysterious and deadly conspiracy to hold Earth's food supply hostage.
This initial novel puts the Lucky Starr universe on a sound footing.
David Starr, Space Ranger (Lucky Starr, #1), Isaac Asimov David Starr, Space Ranger is the first novel in the Lucky Starr series, six juvenile science fiction novels by Isaac Asimov that originally appeared under the pseudonym Paul French.
È stato pubblicato in italiano per la prima volta nel 1962 col titolo Veleno per la Terra e ripubblicato anche col titolo David Starr il cacciatore dello spazio.Va detto subito che questa serie è stata scritta come la sceneggiatura per un telefilm destinato ad un pubblico molto giovane e infatti il personaggio era nato con questo scopo, dunque non aspettatevi il solito buon dottore del ciclo delle fondazioni o anche le varie sfaccettature dei libri sui robot.
While David did seem like a character who was a bit too good to be true, there were problems he had...
It would have been good to see a bit more of the world in general, but I did like seeing some of the technology used, both on Earth and Mars.
And the Space Ranger itself was a really interesting idea, with an air of mystery added that I really liked seeing.While I would have liked to see the book expanded upon, I did really enjoy reading it and I'm sure I would read it again in the near future.
Magari il mistero si rivolve nel secondo volume, chi lo sa!Poi passare dal cazzutissimo "Space ranger" a "Vagabondo dello spazio"..
Probabilmente sì, troppo veloce e un po' semplicistica nello sviluppo, ma mi ha tenuto incollata fino a che non l'ho terminato..Il mio approccio alla fantascienza è avvenuto un paio di anni fa quando mio padre ha riesumato dalla cantina la sua collezione Urania e ne ho letti qualcuno..
Ma non sono riuscita a farmeli piacere perché li sentivo troppo datati (oltre al fatto che certe storie erano davvero improponibili!!).
কিশোরদের জনয পল ফরেঞচ ছদমনামে লেখা আসিমভের লাকি সটার সিরিজের পরথম বই। তার অনযানয বই এর মত জটিল মাইর পযাচ নেইএখানে । কিনতু পডার সময মনে হয মুহমমদ জাফর ইকবালের সাইনস ফিকশন পডছি। আমার মনে হয বাংলা অনুবাদে পডলে পাঠক বুঝতেই পারবে না এটা আসিমভের লেখা। এখানেও বিজঞান কাউনসিল আছে যারা সরবময পরশাসনিক কষমতার অধিকারী এবং ডেভিড সটার সেটার একজন নবীন মেমবার যে নানান রকম রহসয সমাধান করে।
কিশোরদের জন্য পল ফ্রেঞ্চ ছদ্মনামে লেখা আসিমভের লাকি স্টার সিরিজের প্রথম বই। তার অন্যান্য বই এর মত জটিল মাইর প্যাচ নেইএখানে । কিন্তু পড়ার সময় মনে হয় মুহম্মদ জাফর ইকবালের সাইন্স ফিকশন পড়ছি। আমার মনে হয় বাংলা অনুবাদে পড়লে পাঠক বুঝতেই পারবে না এটা আসিমভের লেখা। এখানেও বিজ্ঞান কাউন্সিল আছে যারা সর্বময় প্রশাসনিক ক্ষমতার অধিকারী এবং ডেভিড স্টার সেটার একজন নবীন মেম্বার যে নানান রকম রহস্য সমাধান করে।
A fun science fiction mystery. Asimov owes a lot to the classics of the mystery genre in terms of how he structures his stories, and this one is a great example. A quick read, too.
Utter garbage. Easy to see why it was originally published under a pseudonym... Take the worst elements of a poor spy-thriller and mix it unimaginative SF and you get this mess. Good thing to know that Asimov can write a lot better than this...
Quite enjoyable if somewhat naivete nowadays. And there is of course the added value of nostalgia (I have devoured the Lucky Starr series of books approximately 30 years ago, not recalling a thing from then except that it was very enjoyable). Unlike the TV series MacGyver, which was a total disappointment when trying to re-watch it at a later age, you can never get too wrong with Asimov.
Godt å lese Asimov igjen!Handlingen foregår på Mars (noe før man faktisk visste så veldig mye om hvordan det faktisk er på Mars). Jordens kornbehov blir dekket av åkre på Mars, og det er noen mystiske tilfeller av matforgiftning. David Starr, romanens hovedperson, er på saken.
Admito que esperava uma maior complexidade, contudo a investigação do Conselho de Ciência - e sua própria existência como agentes de campo - foi bem descrita e adequada. Uma leitura rápida e interessante sobre o Patrulheiro do Espaço.
Novela juvenil en la que Asimov intentaba que los jóvenes de los años 50 se interesasen por la astronomía y el sistema solar. Entretenida
OK I'll admit that a great deal of this rating his down to pure nostalgia!
I had heard of this collection but all the editions in my country have been long discontinued, so this was my first chance to read one of the Lucky Starr stories.I understand Asimov wrote them for a younger audience so I was quite ready to accept a simplier scientific background a way less deep storyline - some light space adventure sounded just right!Sience was good.
Absolute crap.Here goes Mr. Perfect, because not only he is perfect, he also knows he is perfect and everybody else around him (even those he has just met) accept as a matter of fact that he is so damn special.It bothers me.
David Starr, a promising young member of Earth's Council of Science, is recruited to investigate a series of fatal poisonings that are all traced back to food imported from the Martian colonies.Once on Mars, Starr adopts the alias of Dick Williams and, along with a short, unruly farmhand named Bigman, ends up working on the Makian farm, the largest on the planet.
One of the energy beings designates Starr as a "Space Ranger," an identity that Starr adopts as he tracks down the true perpetrators of the food poisoning.David Starr, Space Ranger is the first of six books known as the Lucky Starr series written by Isaac Asimov under the pen name of Paul French.
Devo dire che non mi aspettavo una storia al livello de [[ASIN:8804664991 Il Ciclo delle Fondazioni]], ed in effetti non siamo su quel livello, qui si tratta più di una serie di romanzi per ragazzi, come un'avventura non troppo impegnativa ma non per questo brutta.
Mi sento di consigliare la lettura a chi come me è patito di Asimov o per chi è giovane e si avvicina al mondo della fantascienza.
Le 4 stelle sono dovute al fatto che rispetto ad altri romanzi della produzione di Asimov qui siamo ad un livello inferiore, ma rimane comunque un romanzo godibilissimo e che mi sento di consigliare.
This book is definitely targeting a juvenile audience I would say approximately age 8.
I can see why Asimov authored this series under a pseudonym.On the plus side the story is slightly around the founding of a super hero, which given the current environment might actually be something that could be developed further.
hell vs he'll, but this was not horrible probably better than many modern books.If you are thinking do I have to read this, it it a major work of Asimov, I would say do not bother but if you do it is not a lot of time you will waste.
This was the first Sci-fi book I ever read, given to me by my Grandad at age 9ish. A fab book to start my addiction to the genre.Set on Mars a boy gets lost in a sandstorm and is saved and adjusted by friendly aliens and starts a series of adventures using his new abilities and superior technology
"Y así fue como de los labios de una criatura viviente a la que no veía y jamás podría ver en su forma verdadera, David Starr oyó por vez primera el nombre con el que sería conocido en toda la Galaxia".Este libro fue tan emocionante.
This is Asimov at his best. It may have been written before recent discoveries about Mars, but it doesn't matter. David Starr goes to find out why imports of food, from the Red Planet, are becoming dangerous: there have been several fatalities. It's a space who-done-it that mixes in great sci-fi concepts - if only we could use that martian forcefield to recycle ... well everything! Sixty years on and no way finished yet. I'm reaching for the next adventure for 'Lucky Starr'.
Good fun read
a fun read
Space superhero! They oughta call him "Lucky."
No masterpiece, but decent enough.
Haven't read it in decades. It shows its age. The Spanish translation in my edition is... not the best.
All of the nostalgia! I haven’t read this book since I was a kid. My young sci-fi/geek self is beautifully satisfied for the time being.
Haven’t read this entertaining little book since I was a kid. Quite enjoyed it again.
