https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/638559.The_Royal_Book_of_Oz
This time I feel justified calling the novel laughably racist.
The Silver Island where Scarecrow became an Emperor is made after Ancient China; written by a person who literally had no clue what she was writing about and using all kinds of stereotypes as an inspiration.
I was willing to accept even this - keeping in mind the time the book was written - until I stumbled upon the description of a dinner.
Quite probably the reason for this was a contrast with Baum's writing.
The novel was not completely hopeless, so I am willing to give it two stars.
This is the first Oz book I have read since I was a child. I wouldn't call myself a fan, but by the end I could see the appeal of these books. It was so happy and optimistic with such simple and yet magical adventures. And the Librivox narrator was simply amazing.
I had recently re-read all the original Oz books with my son, and finally decided that I wanted to see what the non-Baum books were like.
My son, on the other hand (he's 8) declared he only wanted to read the originals, so he declined!The book is not particularly good, although there are some creative things in it.
Granted, for what is essentially fan fiction that was published in 1921, it could have been a lot worse, but still, the book would have been better for me if the entire country had been made up instead of a bad stereotype.But there were some good things, like the sea serpents and Sir Hokus.
I say this because of one giant plot hole that I could not get past - and I do not believe Baum would have made this error: The entire book begins with the Wogglebug creating a Royal Genealogy of everyone who lives in Oz - which triggers the Scarecrow to go off looking for his family.
Other Silver Islanders of note are - Princess Orange Blossom and General Mugwump.Once Dorothy's wish dumps her troupe into the cell with Scarecrow and Tappy - we sail toward another happy ending.
If the writing style alone hadn't been a dead giveaway, then the characters having gone through complete personality changes probably would have done the trick.
This is a far cry from Baum who, though writing at the turn of the century and with a style that reflected it, was still accessible for the younger set.
And you might be tempted to wonder if the book would have been better were I treating it as its own thing, but first, she didn't write it as its own thing—she even published it under Baum's name—and second, her style is choppy even when held up entirely on its own.
While looking for his ancestors, the Scarecrow slides down to Silver Island, where he's acclaimed as Emperor; when Dorothy discovers that he's missing, she and the Cowardly Lion go looking for him.
Thompson does introduce several new and interesting characters -- Sir Hokus of Pokes, the Doubtful Dromedary, and the Comfortable Camel -- but I never felt as though she had a good handle on many of Baum's characters (particularly Dorothy), although she does develop the Cowardly Lion more than Baum had.
Unfortunately, her effort to introduce new places goes awry; Silver Island, on the other side of the world from Oz, abounds with offensive racial stereotyping of Asian culture and customs.
Es bueno, de hecho me gustó la frescura que Ruth le trajo a la saga, aunque de pronto escribe algo precipitado, lo que lo hace un poco confuso, sentí mucho más fuerte esta historia y a los personajes, que el 80% de los libros de Baum. Es posible que los libros que escribió esta mujer sean mucho mejores que los de Baum, pero habrá que leerlos para saberlo. Por lo pronto, aunque algo extraño, esta mujer comenzó con el pie derecho.
As a huge fan of the original Oz series, I have always wanted to read these follow ups. Unfortunately, the first of Thompson's books fails to live up to the standards of Baum. The story starts out slow, and if not outright racist, it definitely feels like it walks the line. There are great moments in it however, and I like that it attempts to expand the wonderful world of Oz. I am hoping that Thompson improves over the course of the series. This was just a rougher start then I would have liked.
interesting book
Widely thought to be at least partially written by Baum until the 1980s, Thompson's take on Oz just can't hold a candle to the original 14 stories. The pace is frenetic and the story implausible to a degree that even Baum would find dizzying. The characters were punsters almost completely unlike the versions of themselves in earlier books. Disappointing, overall.
Frank Baum are absolute treasures, and for years, I've held off on reading the additional Oz books by Ruth Plumly Thompson for fear of ruining the wonderful world of the originals.
Given the time period in the book, I will just gloss over the somewhat distasteful racial stereotypes, but I will say that I believe that Thompson would have been much better off just creating a truly new fantasy land instead of falling back on a stylized version of Asia.
Thompson relied too much on the real world, and consequently, Silver Island hasn't survived the test of time nearly as well.I would only really recommend this book to hardcore Oz fans with completist tendencies.
It actually reads a hair more sophisticated, I think; she doesn't use the word "droll" so often, for example.It's interesting that Baum left notes for this one and Thompson wrote it; maybe that's why despite Thompson's voice it feels more like a Baum storyline than a Thompson one (if I'm remembering her other books correctly - and from the beginning of Kabumpo in Oz, which I've started already).I like that there's a dual plotline going on - the Scarecrow looking for his family tree and Dorothy and the Lion looking for the Scarecrow and getting lost a bunch in typical wander-around-Oz-and-discover-droll-people fashion.I like a lot of the people: I like Sir Hokus and I like the Pokes; I like the Fixes; I like the A-B-Sea Serpent and Rattles; I especially like the Comfortable Camel and the Doubtful Dromedary.
I have a hard time accepting any Oz stories not written by Baum.
Her sense of humor is a little snarky at times, which makes it seem kind of clever and timeless.
It helps that Baum's long-time illustrator, John R.
Neill, illustrated Thompson's books as well, to help keep a sense of continuity within the series.
Neill's illustrations of the Asian characters are pretty...
When I saw the first one I actually gasped and said aloud, "You've gotta be kidding me." Thompson's side story with Dorothy and the Lion was a little more enjoyable.
This was definitely an interesting read to see how Ruth Plumly Thompson would take over the Oz series from Baum.
I still cannot see how you can get the whole Oz series from Baum for free in Kindle while her books (with the exception of two I found) have to be paid for but that is the worl of business.
Anyway there is definitely a different tone between Baum and Thompson, which in a way is a refresher.
Out of the two I would have to say that Thompson's books are more for the adult crowd (or those who may read the series) while Baum was clearly and always written for the children.
$0.0When Professor Woggle Bug decides that Oz needs to have a royal book of everything that has happened, including all the people and their ancestors are, the Scarecrow is saddened because he has no family and goes in search of them.
However since he has left many notes among his papers, his wife tells us that Ruth Plumley Thompson will tell the story with blessings from the family (it is not quite the same, though IMO).As always when I have read an Oz book, I think it would make a great movie, even if it were animated.
This just means that I have 14 books worth of one writing style in mind heading into this one.
Ruth Plumly Thomson's writing style is definitely different from Baums, for better or worst I'm not sure yet.
Additionally I feel like Thomson's writing style is more complicated then kids would have come to expect Oz books to be.
There were times while I was reading this book that I had to go back and reread a passage because I was confused about what was happening.
So far I have to say I prefer Baum's books but that's only with one Thomson book under my belt.
In which the Scarecrow goes to search for his family tree and discovers that he is the Long Lost Emp
Dorothy traveling through the countryside of Oz searching for the Scarecrow was okay - like the poor man's version of an Oz adventure; However, the Silver islands were like a terrible caricature of how a small-minded person would describe Chinese culture.
For example - a conversation between the Scarecrow (or as he is here, Emperor Chang Wang Woe) and the Grand Chew Chew"...Am I in China, or where?
Are you Chinamen, or what?""We are Silvermen," said the Grand Chew Chew impressively, "and a much older race than our Chinese cousins..."And a song sung by 'Happy Toko' the little silver man"Two spoons went down to Por-ce-Lane, To meet a China saucer, A 'talking China in a way to break a white man's jaw, Sir!"There's worse, in passages far too long to quote here.
This time, the book felt like a lost opportunity to get the continuation of the series after Baum's death off on a good note.
I understand that this book is from another time, having been published in 1921, and attitudes were different.
The edition I read even had a publisher's note advising that it "reflects some ideas and biases which were deemed acceptable at that time", but it is hard to get past the Asian stereotypes without a level of discomfort, even accepting that the original text was "presented .
It follows three of my favorite characters ever, Dorothy, the Cowardly Lion and the Scarecrow on an adventure to the other side of the world.
While finding out one is royalty is exciting, Scarecrow is also trying to figure out how to get back to his friends in Oz. Dorothy and the Lion go out in search of the Scarecrow, fearing his feelings were hurt by Professor Wooglebug's investigations into each characters family histories, and the two of them end up on their own adventure where they find new friends.
It feels much like the original in that there are adventures and magic to behold without too many superfluous characters.
This is the first book written after L.
All he knows is that he was placed upon a bean pole, found by Dorothy, had lots of adventures with her, and is beloved by all in OZ.
But a thoughtless comment by the Wogglebug sets him off on a grand adventure.I appreciate word play and Ms. Thompson certainly delights with that!
I so look forward to reading more novels by her!This is one of the first books I read on my Kindlefire.
I enjoyed it but not having the illustrations as part of the book was a real letdown!
This is the second Oz story that I have read. The first was the graphic novel version of the Wizard of Oz. Since that is all I have to go by, I can't say that I really enjoyed this book. It was really confusing jumping back and forth between the Scarecrow's story and Dorothy's. I also thought that it was very odd that you never hear anything about Toto. Overall it was hard to read. I would not say that it was a complete waste of time though. It definitely had its parts that were really good.
I had read this as an ebook so I didn't get to see John R. Neill's wonderful illustrations, which was a shame. While this wasn't as good as Baum's Oz books (but then again, nothing can really compare), it was still nice to return to the wonderful land I grew to love as a child. I downloaded the rest of Thompson's Oz books so I'll be going through them one by one. Thank god for the digital revolution!
This was a pretty traditional Oz novel, even though it's the first one not actually written by the original author and creator, L. Frank Baum. On the plus side, there is a central problem that serves as the focus of the novel and from which the main complications arise. There are some random adventures as one party, including Dorothy, search for the Scarecrow, but overall it presents a unified story. A good read.
This has a distinctly different vibe from that of the Baum books. I think it worked though. I liked the insight into the Scarecrow and thought the night was a different kind of character than the typical ones. It felt a little disjointed and was vaguely racist at times, but overall a solid if not spectacular entry.
This book would be pretty decent but it is also really racist against the Chinese. The Baum books (which I grew up with) have aged well but this one has definitely not. I've read two others by Thompson and not had this problem with them, so I'd like to hope this particular title is an aberration.
The first 100% non-Baum Oz book has imagination, but feels a little forced. There are too many puns and the situations don't seem to occur except for funny effect. I'll continue reading these every so often, but I'm not convinced they're going to get any better.
Finally finished with all the Oz books. I can see why they were so popular. This is similar to the rest with an adventure or two and vivid descriptions. And the same formulaic we are all best friends ending.
I got this as a free book figuring I'd see what it was like since I'd read the others. She did her best to imitate Baum's writing style but she didn't get the characterizations correct and she crossed the line to mockery instead of goodnaturedness that Baum always managed so adroitly.
This was the last book in the oz series and I loved it. It was so cute, the waggle bug continued to follow a dress that he fell in love with. All of the people who were wearing it would give it away to someone else and he would follow the dress. Cute.
