https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46917.Rabbit_Redux
Though, not too sly, since everyone seems to know about it, including Rabbit's sickly mother who never leaves the house.There are some pretty kick-ass scenes leading up to a big confrontation between Rabbit and Janice that confirmed to me how ingenious John Updike is.
Updike shows the ugliest possible view of the 1960's: rotten and shallow relationships, selfish, unlikable people, racism, violence, almost constant drug use, and tons of unappealing sex.
It was so icky to be a fly on the wall for pretty much each and every copulation (failed or otherwise) that takes place in this book.
There is lots of violence and hate in this book - the hideous underside to the sexual revolution.
Obviously, Updike was not taken in by all the peace, love and happiness rhetoric and instead looked at the damage that unbridled sexuality and drug use could have on society - here focusing on how it affects Rabbit and his family.
Still a great read and a must before finishing the cycle with Rabbit is Rich and Rabbit at Rest.It was very full of violence and hate and is a turn off to many readers.
Fortunately, Updike wrote Rich and At Rest to redeem Rabbit to some extent.
And since it’s been 10 years since Rabbit, Run, Rabbit’s son, Nelson, is no longer a bebe – he’s now 12, and kind of thinks and acts like a little hippie -- which of course the Vietnam-War-supporting and ex-jock, Rabbit, can’t stand.So, yes, it’s indeed the 60s: there’s the Pill, lots of good (and bad) drugs; and there’s threats of getting blown up by the Russians; and there’s the Vietnam war where kids are dying for no fucking reason, and everyone knows someone that’s had to go, or is in fear of going himself; and with all the civil rights stuff going on, there’s still blatant, despicable racism.
But like I said, when you try to force that kind of thing too early, as an outside observer, it’s never going to work -- even if you’re John Updike.Now let’s get back to the issue of selfishness.
Rabbit Redux is Updike's Go Ask Alice, a bizarre, racist rant about Vietnam and the dangers of marijuana that culminates with the black guy jerking off as Rabbit reads Frederick Douglass out loud to him.
It's weird and it's bad.At least the sex scenes are just bad and not boring, like much of the rest of the book.
"Remember Rabbit Redux, where he reads Frederick Douglass while a guy jerks off in front of him?
I feel like every article should have led with "John Updike, who once wrote a scene where a dude reads Frederick Douglass while another guy whacks off..."That was a weird fuckin' disaster, huh?
As part of the PopSugar Challenge, I opted to listen to #2 in Updike's Rabbit series, which takes place in 1969 while Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom is a supposedly responsible adult enjoying the fact that America is fighting the Viet Cong, and lamenting the fact that his wife Janice is leaving him for a guy she works with (and is opposed to the war).
Harry is the Everyman in his opinions and lifestyle.
It was like a walk down memory lane to hear his arguments about politics and race, and he is very opinionated.
But I seldom do that, so I decided instead to finish this and then not to read any more of the Rabbit books...although I hear they get better and better.
Then the book veers into political and social territory as Rabbit picks up teenage prostitute Jill and installs her in his home as a live-in whore.
So we’re sucked into this 150-page spiral, knowing Jill is going to perish at the hands of these imbeciles, screaming at the book GET THIS POOR JUNKIE TO HER MOTHER, but alas, she meets the grizzliest end Updike can imagine, leaving me frazzled with indignation and confusion.
Veering towards the latter.
Rabbit’s utter indifference to Jill’s death is also completely ludicrous—his character withers a great deal in this book, which is compelling but oh-so-deeply flawed.
DNF @49%Sorry Rabbit, you just aren't interesting enough for me to continue.
This time around, ten years after the first Rabbit novel, Janice, Harry’s sad, insipid wife runs away, leaving Rabbit with the kid.
Add then too the elements that made the first book so harsh (affairs, racism and a wholelotta mysogeny) to the national and personal events in that aforementioned decade… and RR is sick, hilarious and very real (employing streamofconsciousness & the 3rd person present-tense).Basically another tragedy befalls Rabbit as he gives shelter to a young hippie-ish ho and her black escort, a modern revolutionary (who's way into drugs).
Confusion in the middle portion of the book basically mirrors the trio’s stupid, selfish drug trance.
They all do these drugs with the twelve year old kid present… an American tragedy.Are all women-- in Updike-- simply stupid?
So I personally think Updike is actually at his worst in his 'naturalist Americana' writing like the Rabbit books, and it boggles me why they were awarded prizes and are frequently the most-assigned and most-read of his novels.
No, right?) and way too articulate/observant (the book is limited 3P but there are lovely lyrical bits, like 'Sun and moon, sun and moon, time goes,' which are so totally Updike-Not-Rabbit they throw me right out of the book).(BUT, I think Ruth is an amazingly well-developed female character.
Maybe if Updike could have written Rabbit as adapting better to the turmoil of the 60’s this novel would have been more enjoyable (or at least less offensive).I might be wrong but I don’t think the word cunt was generally used to describe women in 1969.
Especially because he wastes almost half of the book involved in these discussions between Rabbit and Skeeter.This novel left me feeling kind of offended.
I don’t recommend entering into Rabbit’s world, or if you do read the first novel and then use your imagination about what he would be doing ten years down the road.
Jill is clean from drugs, and things seem to be going well (Nelson worships her), what with her making dinners better than Janice, playing guitar, and being so hippie dippy.
The novel could have faltered here, but Updike unspools a remarkable reconciliation between Rabbit and Janice that remains true to the characters and yet shows their growth.
Janice and Rabbit are no longer the children of the first novel, but we still recognize them, just as they recognize each other: older, a bit battered by experience, maybe not even liking each other so much, but still bound together for the long haul.
xxx
From BBC Radio 4 - Book at Bedtime:John Updike's masterful Rabbit quintet established Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom as the quintessential American White middle class male.
The first book Rabbit, Run was published in 1960 to critical acclaim.
Rabbit Redux is the second in the series, published in 1971 and charting the end of the sixties - featuring, among other things, the first American moon landing and the Vietnam War.Despite its very strong language, sex, and reflection of racist attitudes of the time, Time Magazine said of the book and its author, "Updike owns a rare verbal genius, a gifted intelligence and a sense of tragedy made bearable by wit.
These days I wouldn’t bother to read Rabbit Redux at all but I remember then I even liked it in a way.The novel is too artificial and I believe John Updike simply wanted to catch some zeitgeist in just to be in the running… “Stavros takes it up quickly.
Not that this is any of your business.’ Rabbit doesn't like the way the game has started to slide; there is a hole he is trying to plug and can't.”All those make-believe boudoir hippies were nothing but movie extras – they had nothing to do with the actual hippie movement.And anyway for such types as Rabbit there is no real convalescence – just a remission at best.
Yes, angst is right, page after page of it.
And, to make matters worse, this book has not aged well at all.
Most of "Redux" is preachy 1960's politics and the racism and xenophobia on display make this a tough read.
Even if one is able to credit Updike with ranting against these issues, the experience of reading this book is so unpleasant I can't recommend it to anyone.
Had I not read "Rabbit Run" previously (which I thought was beautifully written but still a "downer"), I'd never have made it through this entire book.
Well, this book started off more interesting than Rabbit, Run, but a good chunk of the middle dragged with talk of Vietnam, racial tensions, sexual conquests, along with a good fair share of uncomfortable scenes and degrading language. And then the end picked up enough to make me want to find out what happens in the third book...
Rabbit is abandoned by his family, his home invaded by a runaway and a radical, his past reduced to a ruined inner landscape; still he clings to semblances of decency and responsibility, and yearns to belong and to believe.
Harry accepts a dinner invitation with unexpected consequences4/10: Jill establishes her place on the household and makes friends with Harry's son, Nelson.5/10: Jill is starting to fall in love with Harry and this cannot be a good idea.Jill brings home a friend in need - a Vietnam vet with an addiction.7/10: Skeeters presence at Harry's house is taking a toll on the neighbourhood.8/10: Despite unusual house guests, Harry's life seems normal until disaster strikes.9/10: Skeeter leaves town, and Harry's sister, Min, arrives to visit her mother.10/10: Unemployed and restless, Harry wallows in grief but Janice can see a way through.
Y a pesar de lo bien descritos y perfilados que están los personajes de Jill y Skeeter, por momentos resultan estereotipados y es probable que esto sea deliberado puesto que siempre tenemos la perspectiva de un narrador afín, cómplice del personaje principal, tan cínico como Conejo, pero ojo, el narrador no es Updike, es el personaje que él inventa para narrar la historia de Harry “Conejo” Angstrom y es posible que por esto hubieran en algún momento acusaciones contra Updike de racista y misógino, epítetos que se desvanecen cuando leemos estas novelas con sentido crítico y abierto.
I guess this didn't take me quite as long as I imagined, but it sure felt like it took a while.I mentioned in my review of Rabbit, Run that I was more curious about how this book/remainder of the tetrarchy could be pulled off than enamored of the characters or storyline or even really the writing.
They are stories of industrial frustration and interpersonal pettiness followed by inevitable reconciliation, and neither men nor women come away smelling of roses.I'm probably less certain that I will finish with the tetrarchy having read the second installment (sorry, Steve!), but if Rabbit Angstrom teaches anything, it's that life is long, full of unexpected twists, and that connections endure, even in the absence of strong affection.
Enter Skeeter, an angry young black man who has jumped bail on a drug charge.
Throw in Rabbit's sister, Mim who has returned home to visit their dying mother.
Mim's philosophy is never have the same man more than three times unless it's a good investment.
Rabbit isn't a man you are going to love.
However, when you reach the last page of the book you will be pleased to know that Updike brings Angstrom back in "Rabbit is Rich" and "Rabbit at Rest." It's good to know that one day Rabbit rests.
Updike compels us to keep turning the page.
John Updike is without a doubt one of the best novelists of the past 50 years.
Some authors like Updike and Philip Roth write with such ease it is obvious when you read their prose.Ten years after the first Rabbit novel, this book is about many things - marital infedilty and the challenges of middle-age, the 1960s, Vietnam and of course the furher development of Harry Angstrom, an anti-hero whose best times seem to be behind him.
If however, you can resist that feeling, you will instead turn each page wondering, hoping, Harry will feel something.I found this novel better written than the first one, which is easily attributable to Updike maturation as a novelist.
It's summer, 1969, and man lands on the moon.
and, oh, hell, turns out the moon's just another cold rock, another land of isolation.
(Or, that's what the brilliant Updike does.)And, if you're a literary weirdo like I am, you can't HELP but read this novel and think of T.S. Eliot's The Hollow Men:This is the dead landThis is the cactus landHere the stone imagesAre raised, here they receiveThe supplication of a dead man's handUnder the twinkle of a fading star.
Go ahead and read it!
I have procured that book and it will probably help me to appreciate Rabbit Redux more.
My first by John Updike and he is a gifted writer.
There are other books in this series.
A lot going on for Harry Angstrom at the same time.
He's having to deal with a rebellious son, an estranged wife and two guests who love to shoot up.
His job is going down the pan as well.
He doesn't deal well with the 60's .
Maybe Updike wasn't a fan of the times; Vietnam and all that.
This book may have been his response
Farrell exposed Studs' ugliness to bring about social change, Updike tries to present Rabbit's venal, cringing, petty hypocrisy as some sort of heroic defense of the status quo.Now I hated this book like absolute poison when I read it years ago.
(Picture Peter Boyle from YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN in a hard hat.)It's about a mean Archie Bunker type who hates hippies.
And it's just as hateful and vile as Updike's book.
He talks a lot about hating hippies and anti-war protest types, but he never gets in a fist fight, let a lone a gunfight, with anyone.
Published just two years after the time in which it was set, 1969, "Rabbit Redux" tackles and moves among the era's issues and defining moments: race, the space program, drugs, the Vietnam War, modern angst.
It also shows Updike's ability to make a lot out of a little, plot-wise."Rabbit, Run" was very good, not great; "Rabbit Redux" is better, and very nearly great.Here, the self-centered Rabbit has the tables turned on him as his wife has an affair and eventually moves out.
Really, there are many moments when this is about as good as it gets as far as beauty of the written word, though here and there Updike probably is guilty of overwriting.
He still has pretty much the same opinion of his wife's intellect and parenting skills, but it's ten years later, and Rabbit has joined his father in the printing business -- he's a lithographer -- earning a skilled, blue collar paycheck everyday, ending the day with a couple of cocktails with dad, and going home to be a noncommital but at least present husband and father, a life he still considers pretty second rate.
The novel is set in 1970, and Rabbit's way of taking things in stride draws him into some pretty strange scenes.
There are some wonderful sentences in this book - the opening line "men emerge from the little printing plant at four sharp, ghosts for an instant, blinking until the outdoor light overcomes the look of constant indoor light clinging to them" is amongst my favourites.
The first part of the book, and its chronicling of the apparent disintegration of Rabbit's marriage to Janice is probably the strongest part of the book, but I'm not really quite sure what, if anything, the story is trying to tell us, and in the end, I didn't find myself convinced that the characters were real, and acting as characters, rather than simply doing whatever moved the story along (see in particular, Rabbit's relationship with Jill).
What makes Rabbit one of the most compelling characters in American literature?
Yet Rabbit remains a sympathetic figure, because through him Updike creates a mirror; Rabbit's considerable flaws do not sink inward, as part of his character, but bounce outward back at the society he chafes against throughout the novel, specifically the hedonism and strife of the civil rights era in which it is set.
In this second book, we learn that he has acceded to his suburban fate, and the novel concerns the tragic consequences of his misguided (to say the least!) attempts to reinvigorate his life through one hurtful, reckless act after another.
Why don't we hate Rabbit?
This was so much better than I dared hope.
Maybe I'm finally mature enough to read John Updike!
It lost me a little during some of the long conversations between Rabbit and Skeeter, and I often felt like 'Rabbit, what are you doing?!?', but I really liked it generally and am no longer dreading the two prize-winners in the series.
I also thought it was neat that I read the first Rabbit book when I was around 24 or 25, when Rabbit himself is around that age, and read the second when I was 34 and Rabbit is 36.
I'm excited to see what life brings for him in Rabbit is Rich.
Ugh. I'm committed to reading these through, but this had better be the low point of the series (ahem, tetralogy). Updike is compelled to use the word "cunt" as often as possible, and the Skeeter character is boring and obnoxious. The third section dragged (all those quotes from "Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglas"?!) and there wasn't enough of Updike actually writing the beautiful descriptions of landscape and feeling that he's capable of.
