https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1582996.City_of_Ashes
This book cost me around 600 dollars.
When I'm traveling to and from conventions, I use the airplane time to catch up on my reading.
A lot of times this means I'm taking the opportunity to read books that have been popular for a while, but that I haven't gotten around to.
I feel like I should be aware of the landscape.
I grabbed this book so I'd have something to read while I was eating dinner in the airport.
So I ate dinner, and I read the book, and I lost track of time, and I missed my plane.
She'd rather write her less original ideas (Ginny Bella Clary and Draco in Leather Pants Edward Angstyer Harry Jace) to "perfection" than the actual ideas that might be worth something if she tried.My first problem?Magnus's body language creeped me out.Now, one of my friends pointed out that a 100 year old warlock is BOUND to be creepy.
They needed blood to live, they ran on it, like cars ran on gasoline.Looking at the ragged wound in Simon's throat, it wasn't hard to see what Valentine had done.
But while he's there overnight, Voldemort shows up, kills the blind, mute monks, and steals the sword.Meanwhile, Clarmione and the Scoobies hurry down to the City of Bones to rescue Draco, and she uses some crazy Alohamora charm to open the doors and manacles, but it, like, totally blows the motherfucking place apart.
So it's a tool of heaven, but there's this thing, see, where if you dip the sword in the blood of child versions of each of the four cool kinds of Downworlders (faerie, vampire, werewolf, warlock), you can, like, convert the blade into a Crazy Tool of Sin that makes all demons bend to your will and also calls them into your dimension.
I guess 9th times the charms because I loved this book way more than I ever had. I think in my adolescence, I spent a lot of my time comparing City of Ashes to other books in the series. This reread, I viewed this story as an individual entity, which allowed me to better appreciate the complexities and conflicts that arise in this sequel. I had such a fabulous time rereading book two and cannot wait to continue rereading the rest of the series!
4.5 STARS ❤I keep sitting down to write a full (read-long) review of this book because I enjoyed it so much, but I struggle so hard on writing my thoughts for sequels in a long running series. I know I'm not supposed to include spoilers in them (even though this book is older than both of my children's ages combined), so it's tough to talk about a book to readers involved in The Mortal Instruments. Either you've already read the book and likely are not looking for any additional insights into th
I know I'm not supposed to include spoilers in them (even though this book is older than both of my children's ages combined), so it's tough to talk about a book to readers involved in The Mortal Instruments.
I know I'm older than the target audience here, but I applaud Cassie Clare for her inclusion of diversity at a time that it really wasn't politically correct to do so in YA lit.
Wish me luck; I'm trying to catch up on all of these books by the time Queen of Air and Darkness releases!
With ever-changing information and plenty of teenage angst, this cast of characters tries to stay one step ahead of Valentine, making for a highly entertaining read.Still reeling from the news that they're siblings, Jace and Clary struggle with their feelings toward one another.
I just refuse to believe that they won't end up together.While the blooming romance between Jace and Clary came to an abrupt and uncomfortable halt, Simon steps out of the shadows.
With Jace out of his way, Simon decides to pursue his feelings for Clary.
So basically I spent the whole day reading and I'm just bursting at the seams to read the next one.The tension in the book is so great that you feel like the characters are literally going to break from the strain.
I just think it's precious how with all their shadowhunter abilities they still have to rely on mundane technology, like cell phones.
Jace is growing on me and Valentine is definitely getting more evil.
Just saying...We are getting some serious hints that Jace's lineage is not what we think it is and I'm glad to see Simon trying to be the bigger person, however hard that may be.
You know who you are).As for the abomination that is the Clary/Jace lustfest: Well, it’s a good thing I have a good gag reflex.[image error]Listen.
I’m no prude.
But I’m sorry.
I understand that they didn’t realise they were related until after the forbidden lust developed.
I’m no more inclined to accept this nonsense than I am to suddenly believe that I am Kate Moss.Now before you get all Captain Obvious on me: I too can spot the hints that they may not actually be related in the afterall.
This is not the effing point!
The point is: THEY DON’T KNOW THAT!
I just can't.Screw this series.My problem with this series isn't the writing.
I'm not one to judge books by the writing since I am pretty terrible at it myself.
My problem also isn't exactly the story, which I probably could like.
But anyways, my main problem isn't any of that.It's the characters.How can you continue with a series when you feel nothing but pure hatred towards the characters?
He was nothing but a painfully arrogant jackass.I tried to give this series a chance, but that was pretty much the last straw.
I simply will not continue on with it, and guess what?
1.) City of Bones ★★★  “You are an arrow shot directly into the heart of the Clave, Jace.
You are Valentine’s arrow.
Whether you know it or not.”  I recently did a poll on Twitter, asking people if I should continue on with this series, or just throw in the towel and read Lady Midnight.
I will say that the majority vote was for me to just skip it all, but so many of my best friends wrote to me and pleaded with me not to.
So, here I am, continuing on.I truly enjoyed City of Bones more than City o
I think I’m going to try to continue on for all of Cassie’s books!
- I felt like I was on a roller-coaster ride this book with Simon.
And I actually really like the Jewish rep in this book, all because of Simon.
He was mentioned in City of Bones, but I feel like this was the book that I actually got to see his character.
I don’t know how I feel about Simon’s instant feelings, but I like Maia a lot and can’t wait to read more about her!➽ 
I mostly liked every scene without Jace being problematic, and I read it in under twenty-four hours!
Another thing that was a huge positive for this book is how much time we got to spend exploring the more magical “Downworld” side of things, whether it was meeting the Fae people under the lake, or seeing Magnus show off as the incredible warlock he is.
Magnus Bane might actually be my favorite character so far—since he hangs out with the teens, it can be hard for me to keep in mind that he is this incredibly old, powerful being, so whenever he gets the chance to remind everyone, I’m so here for his fabulous bisexual self.
I loved the slow building throughout, the introduction of Maia, more shadowhunters, and other changes with other characters, that I won’t mention just in case anyone hasn’t read, but it’s a big thing for this one!
There was a slow burn as things came to light and the building up to the final chapters was so intense I didn’t want to put it down!This was completely action packed, we got a lot of Demons this time round and we can see the damage they can inflict, the book started off dark, and it sets it up perfectly for what is to come.
4 Family Matters Stars  SpoilersShort and sweet so I can get to the next book. Wow City of Ashes was action packed and full of teenage angst. And I loved it! I feel this book focused a lot on Simon and all the changes that happen to him. I liked seeing the character growth in this book for Clary, Jace, Simon, Alec, and Izzy. I really didn't like Maryse, I felt like she really let Jace down. Poor Jace it was like no one loved Jace. Everyone turned their back on him or let him down even Clary. All
I feel this book focused a lot on Simon and all the changes that happen to him.
I liked seeing the character growth in this book for Clary, Jace, Simon, Alec, and Izzy.
I really didn't like Maryse, I felt like she really let Jace down.
She loved Jace but can't be with him and she loves Simon like a brother but he wants more and she feels like she needs to give that to him.
I felt like Jace really maned up in this book.
He stepped up and did some great things especially for Simon.

I'm beginning to understand why people prefer Jace Wayland to Edward Cullen. I have to OH SNAP the ending. Is it March yet? I want City of Glass NOW.
Reread: January, 20161st Read : July, 2014This series continues to amaze me!
I loved it the first time I read it and even gets better the second time around.
There are lots of crazy and hilarious moments in this installment.
The characters are all engaging and the way they interact really entertains me.
I especially love Simon and Jace's banters here.
Although Jace kind of disappoints me with his moody attitude, I still can't resist him in this book.
The forbidden romance, the great character development, and the pacing of the book are impressive and all worth the highlight.
Ok first things first, kids -- the whole Cersei Clary and Jaime Jace thing is straight up weird. Like even if he turns out to not be her brother (nobody tell me anything), they still think they're siblings right now and are really not making a strong effort to not be in love...It's just unnecessarily drawn out and got kind of old. Like so much of the plot is this odd sexual tension: "The gold in his eyes had turned hard, metallic. She wondered for a moment if he might actually spring at her, wha
Like even if he turns out to not be her brother (nobody tell me anything), they still think they're siblings right now and are really not making a strong effort to not be in love...It's just unnecessarily drawn out and got kind of old.
I got a better sense of a lot of the characters and could tolerate Jace more in this book when he toned down his "humor." Clary even developed half of a personality, so there is growth!
I think I would've liked this series more when I was younger, though.
At least I liked this one more than the first book!
She goes so far as to have Clary (Stop saying stupid things.) mention that fighting is just like sex for Jace.
Then she tries the whole sympathy-for-the-devil shtick by having him have a conversation about Milton's Paradise Lost with Jace, because whenever Clare wants the reader to draw parallels between her characters and vastly superior works, she name-drops them like an Acme anvil.
They come across as more human than her main characters Jace and Clary, who are both Shadowhunters.
The Clave doesn't really deserve to be saved, but Daddy V shouldn't win either.Clare tries to make Shadowhunters the good guys, but they come off as people who don't think their farts stink.
and can the book stop talking about how fucking handsome Jace supposedly is??this book felt kinda messy in a way (that was definitely not the right word) where things happened for this reason but it ended a different way.Example: the Seelie Queen requested a meeting with Clary, Jace, Simon, and Isabelle (also can we just think about how a Queen of a powerful race wanted to meet with 3 people who aren’t even adults yet??) saying she wanted to talk about Valentine.
He's getting on my last nerve!Okay here I am having read the second book again.
As I was going along I could remember it so that's a good thing!
I couldn't remember what book he did that in so now I know.
I really hope he makes a cool vampire because even though I like him.
Come to think of it, most of them are, but I love them anyway.
He has some demon thing going around killing this that and the other.
And I know I mentioned Simon is a vampire now!
More than I ever expected to and I'm hoping I can stay with this series until the end since most people have said they stopped more or less halfway through.
I'm so excited to see what else The Mortal Instruments has to offer.That being said, I do have a question about the order in which I'm supposed to read both The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices.
But others say that it's fine to finish TMI and then start TID afterwards.Can anyone tell me which order would be best to read The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices?
This was a reread for my Mortal Instruments read-along! I liked this one so much more than I remember and thought I would when I reread it! So much happened that's so crucial and just YEEESSS
Maia was also a great addition to the story.The only slight problem I may have had with this instalment is that sometimes the writing drags a bit with certain concepts, I don't know, I'm probably just being bitter because Cassandra Clare always creates such complicated and amazing worlds that take me a little longer to read than most other books, due to a lot more thought having to be devoted to the writing.
I really hope that more paranormalness (not a word, but of well), is explored in the coming books, and that the shadow hunter world continues to become even better and provide me with more excitement and some surprises would be nice too ;)I can't wait to read City of Glass because I've heard it's most peoples favourite!
WOWEEEEEE. Well that was WAY better than the first book. I am FEELING some FEELS.
5 Stars!  'A pair of werewolves occupied another booth. Arguing about who would win in a fight: Dumbledore from the Harry Potter books or Magnus Bane'  (Page 406 - Clary Fray) - I would love to know the actual answer to this! CoA picks up right after the drama of CoB; Clary and Jace still struggle for their feelings for one another, Jocelyn is still unconscious and Valentine is still at leather and very much evil!   'Other crack teams get bat boomerangs and wall crawling powers; we get aquatruck
Arguing about who would win in a fight: Dumbledore from the Harry Potter books or Magnus Bane'  (Page 406 - Clary Fray) - I would love to know the actual answer to this!
(Page 326 - Clary Fray) CoA has plenty of action scenes and great use of multiple POV's.It was great to finally meet Max Lightwood and Maia the werewolf.
(Page 16 - Isabel Lightwood) Magnus and Alec are together and are adorable!
(view spoiler)[ Jace and Clary are getting a close to figuring out that they're not related and what Inquisitor Herondale has got to do with it all - the amount of foreshadowing and subtle hints is killing me.
“If you really love something, you never try to keep it the way it is forever. You have to let it be free to change.”  City of Ashes (CoA) follows right after what happened in book one. The tension between Jace and Clary is tortuous, I can't even fathom how deep the rupture grows, but it sure affects everyone in this book. I appraise the story that it gets better, the twists and narrative sounds intriguing from the start except Clary. I don't know what makes her annoying like that, she can't st
The tension between Jace and Clary is tortuous, I can't even fathom how deep the rupture grows, but it sure affects everyone in this book.
I don't know what makes her annoying like that, she can't stop herself from thinking Jace is the one she wants.
We haven't seen what Jace and Clare are going to do next and have to wait until City of Glass.
CoA is readable by the way even though it's not my favorite from CC, it still cracked me up and fueled me to crave more of YA books like this.
4.75 golden starsit was better than the first book as the story went on as I expected (thrilling & exciting), tho I didn't like the scene of the battle at the end; but in general it was good.more humours that I loved it!one of my fav in the series.Fantastic! <3-Plot: ★★★★/5World building: ★★★★★/5Characters: ★★★★★/5Written Style: ★★★★★/5 (more fun)Idea: ★★★★★/5general factors on City of bones review :)
In City of Ashes, we find Jace and Clarey dealing with the personal fall-out from City of Bones, Alec and Isabelle not as visible but are still included, Simon still mackin' on Clarey but finds his own bit of trouble, and Magnus Bane cementing himself as the flamboyant, awesome warlock I knew he would be.
While heavy emotional scenes are happening, there is at least always someone, like Simon or Magnus, to lighten the load with sarcasm.At the beginning of CoB, Clarey and Jace are still on uncertain ground, and Clarey begins to learn more about her abilities and her family history.
This book was much better than the first. And I love Simon.
These books are really enjoyable, even the 2nd time around. I just love how much of a sarcastic asshole Jace is.
