https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/443774.Conan_the_Adventurer
4.0 stars. An excellent collection of Conan stories by Robert E. Howard. This is classic pulp sword and sorcery at its best and done by the master himself. Of the four stories in this collection, my favorites were "The Slithering Shadow" (aka Xuthal of the Dusk) and "The Pool of the Black One", both of which have a very Lovecraftian feel to me (especially Slithering Shadow which features an Elder God right out of the Cthulhu mythos). The descriptions are vivid and exotic and the plots are dense with action and fast-paced. The very definition of a classic fun read.
His estate found “an outline and a rough draft of the first half,” and De Camp finished the tale.
It was probably the weakest of the four stories, but not because of De Camp’s efforts to finish the tale.
The story was more of a rambling set of encounters loosely stitched together, mixed with too many history lessons about lands and kings.The Pool of the Black One also leaned towards the strange/paranormal, and it has the added bonus of Conan in the role of a pirate.
Typical Conan the Barbarian fare, which means it’s a good read.
Some Conan stories edited by L. Sprague de Camp. It's not bad but many of the stories would have been better without the editing. The Frazetta cover is one of the best on the Conan series, though.
Hard to beat the original Conan. The character never dies... Conan is forever.
My first taste of an original Conan story30 June 2012 This is the first proper Conan books that I have read with the previous one simply being a novelisation of the John Milius movie. I guess I enjoyed the novelisation because I love, and still love, the movie, but with this book we pretty much go back to the 1930s (in some cases) to experience the original Conan stories that appeared the the pulp magazine Weird Tales. The book contains four stories, not short stories but novellas, three of them
In a way de Camp was never going to be able to truly replicate Howard's work simply because he was not Howard and as such was only able to attempt to reproduce Howard's unpublished works, so when he sat down to create the stories from Howard's original notes, there was always going to be a substantial difference.
Well, that pretty much sums up what Conan is about, both with the original Howard stories and the de Camp re-edits.
A friend of mine suggested that Conan was more like a Cthulu novel than a fantasy adventure story, and having read three of Howard's stories I am now inclined to agree.
The beginning of the story is very similar to that of THE SLITHERING SHADOW, also collected here, and Conan doesn't seem to be around for a great deal.
There's one set-piece, with our hero battling a glowing-eyed god, which is tremendous fun though.THE SLITHERING SHADOW fares better, a familiar story absolutely packed to the gunnels with action.
Shadowy gods, our hero cutting dozens of the enemy to pieces, a final encounter with the villainous Thog and a whipping scene - it's all present.The other two stories collected here are among the best of the canon.
Πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που περιέχει τέσσερις ιστορίες μέσα, μια μεγάλη νουβέλα 100 σελίδων και τρεις μικρότερες 35-40 σελίδων η καθεμία.
Είναι το τρίτο βιβλίο του Χάουαρντ που διαβάζω, και πραγματικά χόρτασα δράση, μακελειά, τσεκουριές, σπαθιές, μαχαιριές, μπουνιές, κλωτσιές, σκοτεινά και τρομερά τοπία, τρομακτικά κτίρια, πλάσματα βγαλμένα από την κόλαση, και δεν συμμαζεύεται.
Σίγουρα ένα αξιολογότατο έργο της καλής παλπ λογοτεχνίας.Αυτό που έχω να πω είναι ότι διάβασα τέσσερις συναρπαστικές ιστορίες, που είχαν μέσα πάρα πολλά πράγματα, εκτός από την δράση και τα τρομερά τοπία, είχαν και αρκετό τρόμο και μυθολογία κθούλου.
Conan is great, but there is no substitute for the original, Conan by Robert E. Howard. Three out of these four stories are the original Robert Howard, and boy, can you tell the difference from those who tried to finish his unfinished stories, much less write new ones. No comparison. This is life the way it never was, but should have been-- at least, if you were Conan. Anyway, that's it for me and the Conan canon, and a great ride it was.
This is one of the Lancer Conans. Some of you will hate them because they are not only NOT the pure Howard stories, but they also include stories made from notes and pastiches by other authors. I enjoyed them, maybe not so much as the pure Howard stories, but they are good. I don't have all of them anymore and they are hard to find...if you can find them they are worth a try. Wish someone would reissue them.
GREAT read!
First read this book when I was a teen. Conan set the stage for Game of Thrones and the whole sword and sorcery thing.
"Conan, what will we do if they keep coming back to life?""Then I will keep killing them until they stay dead."Pure Conan.
The Cimmerian continues his adventures, and for a man of the Northern mountains spends a great deal of time in the desert.
Asked what he would do after conquering them Conan states he would conquer the Eastern tribes.
He only worries about the next source of plunder and adventure, not letting the little troubles of life get in his way."He was my friend and a good man.
This is one of the better collection of Conan stories.The best one is the last story, "The Pool of the Black One." It also includes two stories of Gods residing in desert oasis cities.These stories are very sexist, so if you bristle at that sort of thing, stay away, but if you can get past that, it's really great stuff, very much like Lovecraft.
What makes the stories great is that they could be put into any setting--it doesn't have to be fantasy (though it does have to be supernatural).
These stories could have been set in a Lovecraft world just as easily.
I had mixed feeling about this book. There are some interesting ideas. In particular, notes of H.P Lovecraft can be felt in the otherworldliness of some of the monstrosities that Conan battles. However, there are some tedious themes (particularly around the endless precession of wobbly, wailing women who inevitably find Conan sexually irresistible) that perhaps show the age of the tales. I also found it hard to symapthise with the protagonist, who is basically a greedy, bloodthirsty thief and murderer.
Me he preguntado montón de veces porque no es más sencillo conseguir los libros originales de Conan, sin embargo, particularmente en este tomo, en que hay tanto racismo implicito, pues queda bastante claro. Ahora mi pregunta sería, ¿porqué no hay un remake de la obra literaria? Da hasta para un universo expandido.
A good collection of the adventures of Conan.
Blue eyes, black hair, white skin (specifically mentioned each time, in case an inattentive reader think him a moor), goes somewhere, beats up a lot of black people (although sometimes others too), rescues a shapely girl who is utterly incapable of doing anything on her own, and about whom we never hear anything ever again.
(If you read the original Howardian Conan sagas, he actually had quite a few strong female characters - Belit for instance is mentioned multiple times in this book, but only in the inter-story notes)Repetitive phrasing, the same similes and metaphors occurring over and over, somewhat exciting action that is not particularly internally consistent or otherwise sensible (Conan, one step ahead of an army of black folks, jumps up a ledge!
Like many this was my first taste of Conan and RE Howard, way back in 1988.
The shades of grey, the 'weird' 'pulpy' language and the world so close to ours yet not is a place I love to frequent.'The Pool of the Black One' is one of my very favourite stories of all time, gripping, terrifying and utterly fantastic.The other three stories are all excellent, Drums of Tombalku is interesting in that it's written pretty much from another character's perspective, with Conan Stepping in.
The other two stories are superb classic REH.
This is Conan!
Je suis donc tombé récement (mais sans me faire mal, grâce à ma souplesse féline que m’envient nombre de compagnons à quatre pattes) sur Conan l’aventurier en poche, du toujours aussi regretté Robert Howard.
Bon, j’essayerais bien de vous convaincre de l’intérêt de lire Conan, mais je vois vos regards horrifés par ces choses que l’homme ne peut comprendre, et donc je vous laisse à vos activités de civilisés décadents pour m’en aller piller, violler et tuer dans la joie, aux côtés du plus grand des aventuriers.
Not bad, traditional swashbuckling s&s.Of the four stories, I'd probably rate the slithering shadow highest, followed by the people of the black circle (by far the longest), the pool of the black one and then the drums of tombalku. The last of which didn't really feel like it went anywhere. But the others were fairly solid. Short but solid.
Per chiunque ami il fantasy classico, senza troppe trame e sotto trame, ma molto curato per ambientazione e personaggi, questo è quello che fa per voi.Narrazione ed avventura pura, senza dietrologie o sotterfugi: Conan è colui che fa, non pensa (beh non perde tempo in sofismi, diciamo così, perché non è stupido per nulla); è colui che cerca l'avventura come se fosse aria.Per tutti coloro che cercano racconti per sognare e partire per l'avventura.https://amacadieuterpe.wordpress.com/...
Every so often I read this Robert E. Howard collection of Conan stories (as I do other Howard collections) and wonder again why the movie industry refuses to stick to the source material. These adventures are thrilling, and stand alone without the predictable 'origin' or narrative alterations that taint the cinematic treatments of the Conan character. The Slithering Shadow, The People of the Black Circle (I could go on) would translate easily to the screen without any tampering.
Another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E. Howards stories. I am a purist when it comes to a writers works. I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another period. Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read. Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
Justo acabo de terminar este libro. Me gustó bastante la verdad leer a Conan es volver a ese mundo de fantasía heroica que no se puede comparar con otras. No se puede comparar con El Señor de los Anillos o con Canción de Hielo y Fuego, Conan tiene un estilo muy diferente, es mas crudo, es mas violento es mas... heroico. Leer Conan es viajar a esa época de la alta aventura. Volver a la era Hyboria siempre es, para mi, un grato viaje a casa.
These are kind of getting old hat by book 5. Story lines are pretty similar. That said I did like People of the Black Circle with its Afghani flavor to it. Unfortunately there is quite a bit of editing and stories inserted wholesale by other authors. Considering stopping my run on this series and checking out one of the collections of just Robert E. Howard stories about Conan. Still entertaining though. Solid 3 stars.
You just can't go wrong with Conan! Each story is creative and different enough that I've read more than twenty of the original Robert E. Howard stories in a row at one point and never tired of them. It reminds me of the Jon Carter series, except with a different backdrop and protagonist. This book is a great collection, and I wish I had the other books in this series.
Like others here, this was the first Conan story I read, and it really opened up my early teen eyes to a different style of the genre after having read through Tolkien. And then I was hooked. So, perhaps that is why I fall on five stars here.I also have a framed print of the Frazetta cover from this edition on the centre-piece wall of my loungeroom.
Great stuff started by "Two-Gun Bob" and finished by De Camp. Adjective and action heavy making for fast and fun reading. There are a few times Conan talks/speachifies overly long, which seem out of character from what I recall of other stories, but maybe my memory is faulty.
Conan is awesome, and Robert E. Howard is a great writer. I cant believe he pumped all these stories out before shouting himself at the age of 31. I didn't think I was an action adventure fan till these stories got my heart racing. If only someone had put this book in my hand when I was 10.
I really enjoyed these stories, because they were as pulp as I had expected and hoped. Strangely, the one dimensional, simple characters felt refreshing. I'm sure I'll read more of Robert E Howard's Conan stories in the future.
