https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11091354-hans-andersen-s-fairy-tales-first-series
A edição reúne versões antigas dos contos, mas não as originais (ou mais próximas do original), posto que todas são cristianizadas. Ademais, a editora ERROU MUITO em não pagar por um serviço de revisão, o que diminui consideravelmente o valor do volume -- o que é uma pena, pois a diagramação é muito bem feita e as ilustrações, muito bem escolhidas --, já que fica difícil relevar os erros de pontuação, escrita e até mesmo de digitação.
A edição é linda talvez não sejam as histórias 100% originais, mas é bem complicado achar elas e existem inúmeras variações. A imagem que tem no livro são LINDAS. Enfim gostei, mas queria talvez os contos ainda mais macabros.
I thought it was fantastic, specifically when I became old enough to understand the words. It's a bit grim, gory, and has dark humor, therefore, if you don't like those kinds of fairy tails, this book is NOT for you...
But the stories themselves are 5 stars.Here are the stories included: The Tinder Box, Little Claus and Big Claus, The Princess and the Pea, Little Ida's Flowers, Thumbelina, The Little Mermaid, The Emperor's New Clothes, The Staunch Tin Soldier, The Flying Trunk, Willie Winkie, The Swineherd, The Nightingale, The Top and the Ball, The Ugly Duckling, The Snow Queen, The Red Shoes, The Little Match-Seller, and Simple Simon.
The Snow Queen was my favorite as a child, illustrated by Michael Hague, and it probably always will be (although The Little Mermaid is lovely).I enjoyed the strong Christian morality in many of the stories, despite being atheist myself.
The Snow Queen then leaves him alone at the palace and the story unfolds.
Unfortunately "The Little Match Girl" story is just so depressing and always makes me cry.
I just don't find the thought of watching a little girl freeze to death to be an uplifting story.
I know that fairy tales traditionally did not always (or maybe often?) have happy endings but happy endings are what I want and "The Little Match Girl" just does not fit the bill.
"The Snow Queen" fits the bill since Kay does make it home safely so that pulled the rating up for the book.
Quelle imagination, sous sa plume n'importe quel objet peut prendre vie
Rien de tels que les contes d'Andersen ! J'ai eu plaisir à relire des classiques comme Hans le balourd ou les cygnes sauvages. Après, il y en avait pas mal que je ne connaissais pas donc certains un peu moins entraînants comme l'histoire des pois dans la cosse ou du chardon.
Mas decidi ler este livro porque como é contos originais estava à espera de finais não felizes e coisas mais violentas, sangrentas e diferente dos contos de fadas habituais.Assim senti-me enganada 2 vezes, pela capa.
Primeiro porque não são os contos originais – sangrentos, violentos e com finais não tão felizes.
Depois a capa volta a enganar quando diz que o autor é Hans Christian Andersen porque não menciona os outros autores como Charles Perrault, Jacob e Wilhelm Grimm.O conto que me pareceu ser mais diferente do que conhecia é o da Pequena Sereia.
I don't know why it's titled fairy tales with stories such as the Little Match Girl that talks of poverty and pathos.There are some stories that have a moral like The Shoes of Fortune that gives many examples of how people wished for greener pastures only to find it worse than their present state.Some have a religious connotation like The Red Shoes that espouses humility and faith in God.Some, like the Naughty Boy, are just because.Not something you'd read to the child unless you want to invest in lots of therapy.
Primeiro é preciso dizer que não todos os contos são de Hans Christian Andersen, também há alguns de Perrault e dos irmãos Grimm, mas foi um livro legal com finais diferentes aos que a Disney tem-nos acostumado. A Pequena Vendedora de Fósforo quase me fez chorar, nossa que história tão triste! Mas lendo essas histórias nós podemos ver como foram feitas como advertência onde o desconhecido, o mal e os pecados podem até matar.Como li numa resenha embaixo a Introdução é uma beleza e vale muito a pena ter um tempo para lê-la e não só ir directamente aos contos.
Andersen is my favorite author for fairy tales.His stories are slow paced and enjoyable.In spite of modern authors writing fairy tales with more pace, Andersen's fairy tales are still my favorite.You can read few stories at following link for free.Hans Andersen's Fairy Tales: First Series
Andersen is my favorite author for fairy tales.His stories are slow paced and enjoyable.In spite of modern authors writing fairy tales with more pace, Andersen's fairy tales are still my favorite.You can read few stories at following link for free.Hans Andersen's Fairy Tales: First Series
Andersen is my favorite author for fairy tales.His stories are slow paced and enjoyable.In spite of modern authors writing fairy tales with more pace, Andersen's fairy tales are still my favorite.You can read few stories at following link for free.Hans Andersen's Fairy Tales: First Series
There is a simplicity of story telling that is at times pleasant, but it becomes tiring. "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" is the gem of this collection. A toy tin soldier falls in love with a one legged toy ballerina and then is abused like Job for the remainder of the story. Its one of the darndest things I've ever read and I am glad no one read it to me as a child.
Wow...Hans Christian Anderson really the King of Fairy Tales. I never forget the story of Thumbellina, Snow Queen, Sleeping beauty...
This book was really good. I could never really get bored with it because every four pages or so was a different story. These stories were definitely memorable and will stick with me.
Excelente livro para quem quer ter um primeiro contato com os contos de fadas originais.
Hans Christian Anderson writes beautiful stories. Those stories are also tragically sad and depressing. I'm glad I read them, but I probably won't read them again.
Great free editionThese are a wonderful compilation of the classic fairy tales. It contains all the stories you could ever need from HC Anderson.
