https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/613283.Princess
I'm the author of this book. It's great to see the ongoing discussions about women in Saudi Arabia. I am delighted to reveal that under the current King Abduallah, that Saudi women are seeing an improvement in life. Although there is a long way to go, there is great hope that change is coming. Also, I'd like to let readers know that I am currently working with Princess Sultana and one of my publishers on the 4th book on Princess Sultana. It should be published fall 2014. More news to follow!
I listened to the Audible version and I could not pull myself away from the plight of Princess Sultana Al Sa'ud and the other women from this story.
Her story offered a poignant look at what life is like for women in Saudi Arabia.
One especially disturbing scene tells the story of a trip to Egypt where Sultana's brother and other men commit acts of extreme sexual violence.
The life lead by these women was grim, even as they tried to make the most of the little joy they could find in the absence of the men.
First of all, I do not believe that this work is a genuine autobiography of a Saudi princess.
Nevertheless I found it to be a highly compelling read and I believe most of the cruel, barbaric traditions and suffocating rules mentioned in this book are unfortunately true.
But after reading this book I realize they not only spit upon other religions but also treat their own women like shit.
This book is definitely not an easy read but it would give you a pretty accurate insight about inner workings of the Saudi society and about the wretched status of their women.
As a person who had spent some time in Saudi Arabia as an expatriate, I can say that many elements of this book had indeed lived up to match some of my experiences there.
However, it should be noted with caution that this is a tale that spans many years: back from the time when Saudi Arabia is slowly opening itself up to embrace the world and modernization.
Revelation after revelation, which while seems extraordinarily unbelievable, is also true.Saudi Arabia is a beautiful country and the people are kind.
For the last time the man asks "Who after that?" and then the prophet says "Your father".This does not mean that Fathers are not respected enough, they are but it's just that Mothers are held higher.There are many facts that I can go on about (like the one about piercing the vagina or something which is absolutely stupid and I think that the author has just made it up) but I just wanted to tell you guys that anyone who believes in this book and let's themselves be manipulated by it, Islam is not a bad religion.
Princess is the story of a Saudi Arabian princess called Sultana for the purposes of the story.
Her brother is treated like a god from birth while she and her sisters are subjected to whatever cruelty he desires.
As Sultana gets older, she encounters more and more horror at the treatment of women.
She and my sister in law had both read it and it raised their ire.
I said I'd give it a shot, mostly because I knew it would force my brother to have to read it as well.To put it bluntly, the Saudi women go through some horrible shit.
After reading this book and comments from other readers, i really feel like i need to say something regarding Islam and Muslims because I am a Muslim.To all people who read the book, don't be mislead by what you read.
The way the men in the story treated their women is not what is taught in Islam.
In Saudi Arabia, women are treated that way because that's their culture, not because they are following the teaching of Islam.It is true that we, Muslim women, need to cover certain parts of our body.
I am not denied the right to educate myself, or to work.
It read like a novel: the way the chapters were structured, the horrifying crimes committed by the males in the story (I'm not saying horrible things aren't done, I just find it hard to believe that EVERY male in Saudi Arabia is basically a heartless idiot like they are portrayed in this book), and the protagonist's unavoidably American Feminist view of the things happening in her country.I did some research and discovered that apparently the author was sued for plagiarism (although, in the interests of being fair, she did win) and this book has been accused of basically being a novel claiming to be the truth.
Princess, by Jean Sasson is the life story of a Saudi princess as told to an American journalist.
Most of all, it describes the gilded but treacherous cage in which royal women are forced to live, and the vulnerability of all Saudi & foreign worker women in the Kingdom.
On a personal note, if I thought the Saudis were a bunch of troglodyte degenerates before, this book only reinforced that impression.
Princess “Sultana” (through Sasson) tells a compelling story and there’s plenty of sympathy to be had there.
I say she was just telling her own story as a royal woman living under those specific rules.
This is truly a fabulous book about the life and family of Princess Sultana.
It makes you want to learn more about the Saudi Arabia culture and their royal family.
This is the story of Princess Sultana, a Saudi princess, living a life of extreme wealth and yet experiencing poverty within the realm of freedom and equality.
Princess Sultana reveals the darker side of the lives of many women in Saudi.
by their own family in the name of honour killing.
The horrifying details of the women's plights and Sultana's rebellion about the situation make for an emotional read.
A highly recommended read.
I seriously dont know if the book is fiction or non-fiction. But few months after reading the book I saw an interview of some Arabian princess on a news channel. The incidents she shared sounded so same to the book. It talks about the kind of life women lead in Saudi Arabia. It discloses some shocking facts like a young girl stoned to death and a girl child was married to a man of 50's. The life of a princess in Arab is only about gold and dimonds but when it comes to self respect and love, she gets none.
3.5 starsI was slightly put off by the way Princess Sultana tried to portray her life as somehow representative of what average Saudi women have to endure.
Her life of leisure was a dream compared to the lives of most Saudi women.
We would lounge and read after our meal, and then Kareem and I would take a short nap...I attended women's parties in the late afternoon...We almost always attended a dinner party in the evenings, for we were of a most select group that entertained mixed couples..." You poor baby!
As a woman who has traveled to Saudi Arabia and having worn the veil; I have to admit, when I read the stories of these women Jean Sasson writes of, I now feel--looking back on wearing the veil--that I was somehow an imposter (I can't explain it any better than that) when comparing my life with the lives of these women.
My wearing the veil was only compulsory when I went outside the confines of the base on which I was stationed; to these women it is a way of life.
It's SHOCKING and SICKENING in every possible way! I had a few "that-can't-be-true" moments and I really wished that it wasn't a true story, bc knowing that those acts against women are real and are happening now and are not just history is simply heartbreaking.I really liked this book although I wished for a better happy ending.
While I do not question that women are treated very poorly in Saudi Arabia and several other Middle Eastern countries, I have a hard time believing that this 'autobiography by proxy' is true.
If this woman, "Sultana", is such a prominent figure in Saudi Arabian royalty, I think it would be relatively easy to figure out her true identity.
"Sultana" gives plenty of hints as to what her lineage is, including her mother and father's birth dates, her own birth date, and given the severity of some of dramas written about in the book, one would think that somebody in Saudi Arabia would say, HEY, I know who that is!
Remember Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale? This is the real handmaid's tale. First published in 1992, it has been reissued in paperback. While some of the facts cited about women's lives in Saudi Arabia may have changed since then, most of the story is still, unfortunately, true. Not an easy book to read, but one that gives voice to a whole group of women you never hear from.
A very questionable book.
How can this princess (and the writer) still be alive?
There are facts that she mentioned - she can not hide from the Royal family :) And all these awful men actions that are described there: sure, there are a lot of restrictions of women rights in Saudi but living here I can't say that local women feel abused and miserable.Of course it depends on family, but lot of them can develop and even work if they want.
They should have influenced the life of the princess for sure!So...
this is just one of the book aimed to shock public.
For starters, how does someone just "traveling" to Saudi Arabia just happen to befriend a princess and extract the many details of her life in this book?
A lot of Westerners are of the opinion that Arabs speak like the characters in the "Arabian Nights." While, to some Americans, an Arab's way of speaking may sound formal in some ways compared to modern American slang, it's not so archaic that when you read the sentence, it seems that "thou" would make more sense then modern equivalents in the contexts used in the book.Conclusion:This book is fiction masquerading as an autobiography.
*{ كلا إن الإنسان ليطغى * أن رآه استغنى}*أكثر شي ضحكت عليه
It's the kind of article that sums up some startling insights in a very concise way, and as a result I never felt I really understood it.Until I read this book.Princess, by Jean Sasson, purports to be the memoir of an anonymous woman from the Saudi royal family, passionate about changing the oppressed status of women in her country.
As Sultana reflects after winning a major battle, "I had found that there is little joy derived from forcing a man to do what is right." Feminism is not a conversion; it can control and regulate men, but it cannot change their hearts.
Odlično opisan život u zlatnom kavezu - bolno i dirljivo svjedočanstvo o sudbini žena u Saudijskoj Arabiji.
For example, the case of the young girl who was punished by death for fornication right after giving birth was a very high act of injustice.
It seems clear from this story that the true essence of their religion eludes them and they follow it only ritualistically, all ideas of modesty and morality starting and finishing on the ‘purity’ and ‘piety’ of their women, when in such regards of spirituality men and women are declared absolute equals in Islam, sharing the same rewards and punishments in this world and that hereafter.
Porque haveriam as mulheres de ser as castigadas por tal?!E quando homens permitem que o fervor religioso condene à morte ou a uma vida de maus tratos e subserviência as suas irmãs, esposas e filhas - não estará já cometido um pecado bem mais desumano?!Na Arábia saudita, uma das nações mais ricas do mundo, cheia de opulentes riquezas, o valor de uma mulher é muito baixo - o nascimento de uma menina traz desgosto e vergonha para uma família e elas viverão apenas paraserem «ignoradas pelos seus pais, desprezadas pelos irmãos e maltratadas pelos maridos».
This is the true story of a Saudi Arabian Princess.
I am sure that most people can guess some of the horrors discussed in this book.
I imagine this book would really surprise some.
This story makes me think that perhaps is it Saudi Arabian men who give Muslims a bad name/reputation (at least here in the US).
However, it is difficult to justify a religion that generally has created great inequalities, not to mention human rights violations.
I think the time has come for Muslims/Islam to prove that their women have equal rights (as they claim the Koran supports).
Granted, a lot of what occurs to our Sultana and her relatives and friends can be categorized more as cultural practices instead of religious mandates, but to me countries like Saudi Arabia and others have found a way to fuse those two separate categories into one grossly unfair practice against the female sex.Cultural laws upheld by religion.
A rudimentary internet search on the conditions of women in Saudi Arabia will all but confirm their second class status as Sultana so effectively demonstrates over and over and over again.
But as a whole, as a representation of the status and oppression of women in Saudi Arabia I believe in many ways she does.
ما معنى أن تجمع كل سلبية من مجتمع عربي،كي تسودها كخصال اأبطال قصتك.
فسألت أنا المؤلفة عن المراد بتلك العبارة.
إذ ما علاقة وجود الجيش الأمريكي في الأراضي السعودية بموضوع حقوق النساء،فقالت بأن الأميرة سلطانة قد أملت بأن يرى الشعب السعودي كيفية تعامل الأمريكان مع النساء،وكيف أن المرأة الأمريكية قد أتت كي تدافع عن الشعب السعودي، فيبدي الشعب السعودي إعجابه بهذا النموذج فيشرع في تقليده ويدخل السعوديون في (حقوق النساء) أفواجا.سبحوا بحمد ربكم على سلامتكم من هذا الخيال العلمي.
This book really affected me.
I read this book about 13 years ago and still have not been able to erase the images from my mind.
I found the treatment of women, as portrayed in this book, appalling.
I was not prepared for the startling realism portrayed in this book.
I gave it a favorable rating because it truly made me grateful that I am an American citizen.
I did not give it a 4 or 5 because I found it to be emotionally disturbing.
I would not recommend this book to anyone who prefers to read about fairytale princesses with happy endings.

I can't say I learned too much - life sucks if you are a woman in Saudi Arabia...but I knew that already.
Reading this reminds me that I am very, very lucky and happy to be an American.
There is no mention of how the American writer befriended this Princess or the circumstances surrounding thier friendship.
I think I would have liked that story.
The end bugged me because it kind of just stopped, and then there was a note to go read the author's 2 more books if you wanted to know more about this woman's life and her family.
This pictures portrays the life of a Saudi Princess. The book captures the reader's attention. The atrocious acts committed against women are difficult to read about at some points. I have to admit that some of the incidents absolutely incensed me, but it does illustrate some of the reasons why those in power have a great deal to lose by allowing progress to take hold. I was bummed about the abrupt ending, but there are sequels I have heard. So maybe some of the hanging questions are explored in later books.
