https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6282334-strength-in-what-remains
I normally love Tracy Kidder books.
And this book had an incredibly compelling story to tell, about a man who escapes genocide in Burundi and amazingly goes on to complete his education and even return to Africa to help rebuild his country.
Later, Kidder switches to a first-person narrative when he follows Deo on a trip back to Burundi.
This last third of the book is much more about Tracy Kidder than it needs to be.
Also, throughout the book, the narrative keeps jumping through time in a way that isn't exactly confusing, but is annoying and unnecessary.
He lets his subjects tell their own story, in effect crafting their autobiography.
In this case, his subject is Deo, a medical student who survived the bloodbaths of the Burundi and Rwanda and makes it to America only to face a prolonged period of challenges in surviving in Harlem.
Yet, with timely help from key people along his way, he gains an education and ends up doing public health work with Paul Farmer's Partners in Health organization.
Kidder infers that the German and Belgian colonists helped establish the myth of differences between the groups that fueled a history of antagonism.
Fabulous, moving and complex-- it takes you between NYC and Burundi and Rwanda through the life of Deo, who was medical student when the massacres of Tutsis began in Burundi (Oct 1993- about 6 months before the genocide in Rwanda).
It is not easy to describe this book, but Tracy Kidder with his usual understated gift manages to allow us to begin to enter the unimaginable world of Deo, in ways that don't ever reduce anything to simple.
It is also a powerful story of one person's effort to find a way to stay human and continue to build a meaningful life, even after surviving the unimaginable.
The author lets Deo, a survivor of the Rwandan/Burundi genocide, speak of his experiences.
Yes, but the main message from both is that people of the 21st Century must keep themselves informed and must get involved.Kidder’s book clearly explains both the Rwandan and Burundi genocides.
In both countries Hutus comprise the overwhelming majority of the population, but in Burundi the military and political power was transferred to the Tutsis by first the German and then the Belgian colonial authorities.
Later in the book the author accompanies Deo back to Burundi and Rwanda.
I have no complaints about the narration.I liked this book because it clearly explains the details of both the Rwandan and Burundi genocides.
Tracy Kidder takes a different approach by starting the story in the middle, as Deo is leaving Burundi.
We suffer with Deo as he struggles to find his feet as a penniless illegal immigrant in New York with no friends or family to speak of, but we have no idea what kind of emotional blows he has been dealt before he got on the plane.
I read a review that said that Deo's troubles in New York were worse than those in Burundi, which is ridiculous, but it's certainly no picnic.
People who experience genocide and write about it can't step outside of themselves and talk about the effects.
They visit numerous memorials and sites from Deo’s past, and Kidder describes how Deo reacts, but in the end we get more of Kidder’s feelings about the trip than Deo’s.Though this is primarily a biography, we do get some information about the genocide in Rwanda and Burundi as well, along with a brief overview of the countries’ history.
(It’s also worth pointing out, for those unsure about whether they can handle a book about genocide, that only one 35-page chapter is all about that; most of the book is about Deo’s life before and after, and about Kidder spending time with Deo and the people who helped him in New York.) But I’m underwhelmed by Kidder’s writing and likely won’t recommend this to others.
Despite the awkward title (a quote from Wordsworth) this is a great book about good and evil, even better than "Mountains beyond Mountains," although it is in way a sequel to Kidder's essay on Dr. Paul Farmer, the man who single-handedly took on tuberculosis and the World Health Organization.
The tale of Deo, a survivor of tbe Burundi holocaust (a lesser-known adjunct to the Rwanda slaughter), is more accessible as Deo, a medical student refugee, is (at first) less heroic than Dr. Farmer, Deo is a man with fears and weaknesses manifested in chronic stomach problems and nightmares.
I have read most of what Kidder has written, and this is my least favorite of his books.
My favorites include House, Among Schoolchildren, and The Soul of a New Machine because they satisfy both cravings.
It is really two books, one about the Burundi/Rwandan civil wars and genocide.
I have trouble understanding how he can have seen and experienced so much and still be surprised that people treat each other badly.I would recommend this book only to people who want to know more about genocide or how recent refugees have made a living in the United States.
Do not expect this book to satisfy your yen for Tracy Kidder's writing.
The final third of the book is what he does after he has established himself in America to address the situation back in his native land.Sadly, for me, it was this final third of the story - unfinished in my assessment - that was less compelling.
In addition to the author's injecting himself and his thoughts into the storyline more (especially his tendency to share his projections of his protagonist's feelings rather than confirming them), he also ends the story just as Deo begins to realize his vision of doing good works back in Burundi.
Not complete justice, not a perfect solution, not by a long way, but something far better than we had before.This book, though, stretches my heart and extends my sympathies to all the people in the world who live in conditions of intolerable poverty.
It's not beyond our capacities in the least, we just have to accept and open our minds and hearts to receive it.The book is very well-written and allows the reader to become immersed in the story and forget all about her local time and place, even one that contains seven devastatingly cute 5-week-old kittens.
A true story of a young Burundian (a country I now know exists) who fled his country to escape ethnic genocide in the early 1990s.
Unfortunately he escaped to Rwanda, a country he then had to flee to escape a similar attempt at ethnic genocide.
Parts of his past are slowly revealed as he attempts to make a new life in America.
I am not sure I have the resilience to deal with being homeless in New York let alone what young Deo had to endure as a child and young adult in Africa.
Deo is a young medical student in Burundi when the horrific genocides started in Burundi and Rwanda.
He sees terrible cruelty to men, women and children, and thousands of slaughtered people.
It is the story of how he survives, sometimes sleeping in Central Park.
His job as a grocery delivery person leads him to people who will eventually help him.
He learns English by seeing words and looking them up in the library.
He certainly did a great job in telling this amazing story about Deo, an amazing man.
The only reason that Deo ran away safely was that he forgot to lock his dorm door, leaving it open.
He ran away." Everyone else had locked his door.Deo escapes to the United States in hopes of freedom.
Tracy Kidder sums up Deo's frustrations so well:"He stood on the corner of Fifth Avenue and Ninety-sixth Street and looked at the traffic.
His life and the future he had imagined had been, not interrupted, but wiped out.
I say "nearly indescribable" because Tracy Kidder accomplishes what must have seemed impossible at the outset; he constructed a word picture of hell.
Kidder's description of Deo's flight from the genocide is horrific.
And, the description of his plight in New York City in 1994 when he arrived with $200, no contacts, and no English skills was - well, I lack a suitable adjective for that experience.Kidder paints an interesting picture of Deo. Deo is approachable and unapproachable at the same time.
Kidder points to the juxtaposition of a student, who has seen the depths of hell, studying philosophy and human nature.
A very strong rendition of the genocide in Berundi and Rwanda based on the personal experience of a victim (Deo).The book is divided into two sections.
It also explains in more detail the background of the New Yorker’s who helped Deo upon his arrival in New York City – basically ‘fresh off the boat’.The first half of the book centers mostly on Deo’s struggles as a penniless new-comer.
I did find this somewhat Disney-like with Deo’s various saviour’s.
Even if one person is helped it can radiate outwardly.His African experience always forms the background of the New York story.
He was eventually befriended by an ex-nun, and artist and a professor, which gave him the means to pursue citizenship, improve his living situation, and take up his studies again, all in the hopes of improving the desperate situations of the poor around the world.Deo's story is both horrifying and inspiring.
(Who knew there were still people in the world who would put themselves so entirely on the line for an African refugee, a practical stranger?) It's wonderful to know that someone can survive genocidal violence and yet keep a basic sympathy toward humanity.
It wasn’t easy to help him though, as he was still too afraid to reveal the truth to anybody – about his past and his present alike.
His past was horrific, and he wasn’t ready to let anybody in on the story just yet, but then gradually he did.Against all odds, and after many twists and turns, he studied at Columbia and then started medicine, met Paul Farmer (Mountains Beyond Mountains), with whom he shared a passion for medicine, and got deeply engaged in spreading health care in Burundi.
This is a biography of man who managed to escape his war torn country in Africa. He came to America but his trials were not over . He dealt with rough neighborhoods, unemployment, racism, homelessness and much more. Until he meets some people who had the resources and the desire to help him. His story is tragic but triumphant. It really was an incredible story. The best part is that he learned to give back, even after so much hardship. I think the remembrance of the hard times motivated him to make a difference.
One of those people is the author, Tracy Kidder, who finishes the last third of the book with his observations of the journey he and Deo take together, returning to Burundi and the emotional sites of terror in Deo’s past, to make peace, to remember and forgive, and to build the clinic that will symbolize a new era of progress and peace for his home community.
I am reminded of The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind, The Price of Stones, and Born in the Big Rains, all memoirs that not only describe lives disrupted by civil unrest, famine and plague, but also boast a narrator who escapes these trials, obtains formal education and organizes activism in the United States, and returns to successfully bring change to their home communities.
When he finally escaped the country - with the help of a well-connected friend of Belgian descent - he found himself struggling to start a new life in which he was no longer a promising medical student, but instead, a homeless refugee who spoke no English and couldn't sleep for fear of the terrible dreams about what he had seen in Burundi and Rwanda.Long story short: things turn out all right for Deo. He ends up getting an education and returning to Burundi to try to make the war-torn nation a better place.
Strength in What Remains: A Journey of Remembrance and Forgiveness by Tracy Kidder is the powerful story of Deo, a young Burundi who is studying to become a doctor when the 1993 massacres began.
Kidder's book was an education and although Deo's story is inspirational in his survival and surmounting such tragedy, just as powerful is the story of colonialism and human brutality.
This book should be read by everyone - certainly anyone who does not already know a great deal about Burundi, Rwanda, and the tragic aftermath of colonialism in Africa.
It is an amazing, true story of a young man, Deogratias (or Deo), who is displaced by the genocide and civil war in his country, Barundi.
This remarkable book shows Deo’s courage and determination to do something good, to help the impoverished people of his country and his refusal to buy into the ethnic hatreds that had caused so much death and destruction.
As horrible as it is to contemplate the mass slaughter that occurred in Rwanda and Borundi, it is also uplifting to read Kidder’s compassionate account of this incredible, bright young man and the good-hearted people who helped him to succeed.
Once again, Tracy Kidder has done what he does so well - provided a world of information and a host of questions that need to be thought about, by telling the compelling story of one amazing individual.
He made his way from a $15 a day grocery delivery boy to a student at Columbia University, to medical school at Dartmouth.
While a medical student, Deo met Paul Farmer (the subject of Kidder's previous book, Mountains Beyond Mountains), went to work for Partners in Health, and was given a renewed sense of purpose.
Somehow, Tracy Kidder manages to convey these ideas very clearly.
This is an amazing story of a young Burundian (Deo) who arrives in New York city in 1994 with no money and no English and not only makes his way, with the help of a number of people, but finishes university and then begins medical school, before returning to the scene of the massacres in Burundi and Rwanda to build a medical clinic.
One of the most memorable occurrences described in the book took place as Deo is desperately trying to escape the genocide that took over both Burundi and Rwanda.
From a stream of refugees passing by a woman who was Hutu (he is Tutsi) sees him and tells him to get up and come with her as the border and a refugee camp is not far away.
A truly inspiring book about a young medical student named Deo who lives in Burundi (adjacent to Rwanda) in the 1990's who gets caught up in the civil war between Tutsis and Hutus and needs to escape for his life after the president is assinated.
He literally needs to run out of the hospital where he is treating patients to escape machete-wielding madmen.
The author (who wrote Mountains beyond Mountains, about Dr. Paul Farmer, who also becomes a friend and colleague of Deo) got to know Deo well over a span of many years, and his is not a story hastily learned or told.
In this book Tracy Kidder chronicles the path of Deo, a young man studying pre-med in Burundi at the beginning of the Rwandian genocide.
Through miracle after miracle, Deo escapes massacre, eventually finding himself in New York, where he befriended by a woman working at St. Thomas More, Sharon McKenna, and a couple from Greenwich Village, Charlie and Nancy Wolfe.
Deo learns English by studying at the New York Public Library and working at low-end jobs such as delivering groceries.
Upon received his MD, Deo ultimately returns to Burundi, where he founds a health clinic in a remote village, modeled after the clinics of Partners in Health.
This fabulous book tells the story of Deo, a young medical student who survives genocide and war in Burundi and escapes, only to find himself struggling to make it from day to day on the streets of New York City.
Little by little, the author goes back in time to reveal first Deo's childhood and adolescent years in Burundi, spent in a typical family in a typical village, his high school and medical school years, and ultimately, his horrific journey of escape during the country's civil war.
Tracy Kidder is a fabulous writer and the perfect author to tell Deo's story.
It is the true story of Deo, a Burundian Tutsi, who was caught in the ethnic violence/massacres between Hutus and Tutsis while he was a third year medical student in Burundi.
Deo's story is told masterfully by Kidder--the violence and horror of Deo's life is clear, but not gratuitous.
The history, culture and prejudices of the Burundians and Rwandans are explained in a non-judgmental way--Deo is amazingly forgiving and hopeful--and Kidder just lets him tell his story.I learned so much from this book and am glad I read it.
This book involves a young doctor's escape from the civil war/ethnic cleansing in Burindi, which borders Rwanda.
It was definitely an interesting read -- the protagonist Deo was a resident at a rural hospital when the fighting broke out, and barely managed to escape before making it to New York.
It presents an interesting point of view, given that Deo is a doctor, was better-off, and able to escape to the United States.
Definitely worth a read -- it was a fantastic book, especially if you're interested in these types of stories.
Although the last third of the story, when Deo returns to Burundi, doesn't have the same page-turning intensity of Deo's flight from Burundi to Rwanda back to Burundi or the same pathos as the New York story, I was heartbroken by the description of the hospital where he first encountered the genocidal slaughter and to which he returned several years later.In addition, I thought the author's musings about the idea of remembrance, which run through the book, were interesting and thought-provoking.
The more I reflect on the book, the more I realize that the entire thing tries to answer those difficult questions and does so without offering pat answers.
