https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7823038-grave-witch
VERY rarely do I pick up a book and stay up until 2am reading so that I feel gross and tired all day the next day and I don't regret it one bit.
:)I pick up EVERY urban fantasy novel lately with huge skepticism, because it's like someone wrote a how-to book everyone uses called "how to mix vampires and werewolves and sassy heroines together!
That's why it's really tough for me to buy into a world that mixes paranormal and reality in that perfect escapist way we all crave, but for some reason this did it for me!
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99: http://amzn.to/2xSxbOJReviewed by: Rabid ReadsHmm .
I read GRAVE WITCH for the first time back in 2010 right after it was released, and I loved it.
I loved it when I reread it before books 2 and 3 came out, too.
This time .
Again, I say, hmm .
There wasn't anything wrong with it.
It just wasn't OMG, I LOVE IT, like my memories were telling me it was.
AND there were a lot of borrowed ideas I didn't remember noticing.
Like how Alex is a necromancer grave wit
I read GRAVE WITCH for the first time back in 2010 right after it was released, and I loved it.
It just wasn't OMG, I LOVE IT, like my memories were telling me it was.
Like how Alex is a necromancer grave witch who raises zombies spirits of the dead.
Like when Alex (a witch) crashes her father's dinner party/political gathering for members of the Humans First party, and her parting shot is:
I think there's more Fae, and now that (view spoiler)[Rianna (Alex's college roommate who disappeared)  (hide spoiler)] is back in the picture, I've got my fingers crossed that things get more interesting.
► BR with my MacHalo Freaks starting December 5, 2015.I am one of three people on Goodreads who thought this book was pure crap *waves at Asya and Emma* What does this mean?
And a Merry Christmas to you, too.Okaaaaayyyyyy, now that we've established that this book is, indeed, a piece of crap, let's do the non-review thing.
Come on, you People of the Despicable Book Taste, let's do this!● Soooooo.
The first half of this book mostly felt like:→ Because flat world building.
And flat characters (yes, we're in Barnacle Land again: cardboard-like characters with brick-like chemistry).
When I came across The Grave Witch I liked the few pages I read, and was quickly immersed in the world Kalayna Price created, from witches to fae, bodysnatcher to a cat gargoyle named Fred This book had me on my toes with a race to the last page..
While the author leaves it to be seen what will develop between Alex and Death, in the few scenes Death was in, he seemed laid-back type of guy with a lot of secrets (and he is pretty hot).
The author drops a lot of information about types of witches and fae, along with the magic that encompasses the world.
The meshing of the ghosts and fae and all that gave a different twist to the usual tale.I suppose the only reason this book lost stars was because Death started so very cool.
This book, whilst I know the comparison is unfair, was just a little too reminiscent of Anita Blake at times for me.
But I swear Anita Blake is like a damn taint that spreads over everything you read!Also, Fallin, you were totally badass but you gave in too easily as well.
Maybe I just like the idea of Alex sticking to Prince Charming, her dog and not having too many relationships.
Since everyone has already read this series, about a hundred million years ago, I won't get into a big ol' boring review.
I'll just give a few thoughts, because, well, I know you are all on the edge of your seats, waiting for my ridiculous, silly, not-at-all-helpful profound thoughts on every book I read.
And some reading is much more educational.So, we have Alex, a grave witch.
wait, what the hell is going on in this book?
I thought it was pretty good and will read more in the series.
At the very least, Kalayna Price gave me a real urban fantasy story instead of the typical Twilight-style "I'm-so-obsessed-with-you-if-you-leave-me-I'll-die" kind of paranormal romance with a not very exciting mystery story mixed in to try and make the reader think the author actually cares about characters and plot rather than just filling the blanks between the sweet-nothings and sex.Grave Witch was a decent story with a decent heroine and a whole lot of decently-written supernatural happenings.
Only Ms Harris could sell a look that is better suited to Barbie dolls.I'll tell you what I'm also tired of that happens in nearly every novel with a witch: long, pointless descriptions of spells, rituals, summonings, etc, etc.
(hide spoiler)]Under normal circumstances I like magic and witches and I understand the need for world building but I was picking things out that I'd read in other places.
I wanted the thing to die.*shudders*One final thing about the ending, unless I'm mistaken and please let me know if I am (view spoiler)[Alex was dying not just from a stab wound but from the soul-sucking spell.
At least one of Grave Witch's questions lasts because Craft misunderstands a mysterious stranger.
English obviously wasn’t her first language." More near-misses not quite like this pepper Grave Witch, the first novel about our ghost-whisperer.
However, if Craft's dubious PI skills -she admits magic pays her checks instead of sleuth work- and self-inflicted woes -I sympathize with disowned princess just a little better than drug dealer- irritate the reader, then her loyalty and bravery endear her to us.
(hide spoiler)] Death's sweet, but I don't care for love triangles.Grave Witch's magic system was sort of novel.
And I’m pissed off because I’m still looking at all those good reviews and I can’t seem to figure out why the hell people liked it.I did not enjoy the story nor gave a shit about any of the characters in the book.
Like a dolphin without its porn!!Yes, dolphins watch lots of porn.Alex is a sad excuse of an urban fantasy heroine.
Yes, I know I’m the silly one for being excited over something like this but whatever, we all have our little brain gnomes who put weird stuff in our zomg-I-must-have-it shelf.
Death in Magic Graves is a Good Guy Greg.
I tried, but I couldn't care less for it.
I didn't expect to like this series so much!What I expect from a great PNR/UF is a really good plot, that keeps me hooked up and wanting more.
It was fast-paced and damn interesting, I loved the world builder!The characters were ok too, I love Death.
And Falin is interesting too, although I'm not in love with him (yet).
There are some weird stuff that I didn't really like about them all, but still, my focus is on the story not on the relationships.
So this series is really worth try, and I can't wait to get to the next one!

I really liked this. It definietly read like the first book in a series but this has potential to be a really good Urban Fantasy series. I'm excited to read the other books
Grave Witch presents Alex Craft quite well and I enjoyed that there weren't actually any flashbacks.
Not to mention that I loved that Alex wasn't a newbie in her craft as a grave witch and she had knowledge about the world.
Of course there's plenty of mystery around him, not to mention some of the things discovered by the end of the book.
The book centers on Alex solving the mystery.
Not to mention sinking into Alex, she's a great character and I enjoy that she's unique from other Urban Fantasy character even after all these years.
I wish we could have had a little more insight into the soul collectors, but I'm willing to be patient and hope we learn more about them in the next book.
Why is Death so accessible to her when he isn't to the others?I liked that Alex's power wasn't without consequences.
He's been popping in and out of Alex's life since she was little, and although she doesn't know much about him, they're friends.
I'm not sure if I liked that or not, but I'm willing to hang for the ride and wait to see where the author's going.The only real issues I had were the occasional sections of confusion I ran into.
I like that she's got some stuff going on, that she's strong and powerful - even more so than she realizes, as is pretty normal in UF books, but she still has some weaknesses to work out.
And Death just isn't there enough for me to buy his 'I love her' moment.
Ugh. Rage-inducing moment, there.The world set-up suffers in weird ways here.
Then you have the fact that every single thing that happens in the book feels contrived, I could feel the author's hand in setting up and pushing the characters through to the desired storyline.
Alex is a fun, unique, and powerful character.
The more Alex is in contact with the dead the colder her body temperature gets and after being in contact with her power she has issues with her eyes.
The relationships Alex has with Death and Falin makes me wonder if their might be a love triangle looming in the future.
I like the relationship between Alex and Death.
I will say the relationship comes second to the murder mysterious happen in this story.
I was sucked in that I couldn’t stop and when I had to I was a little sad and I wanted to jump back into the audio book.
Felicia made me do it.UPDATED:So, Grave Witch was actually a pretty fun book. It reminds me a little bit of Jim Butcher's Dresden Files, though with a female lead and with an extra bit of sexiness thrown in.There were some exciting moments (not just exciting in the sexy-sense) and I found Alex Craft to be a likable and relatable character. Who hasn't only had a hot dog left in their fridge during rough times?Overall, a fun quick read. Some of the writing was a little repetitive, but I was able to overlook it for sexy faerie-men detectives.
Good. Lots of deaths and bloody crazy things. And she’s friends with Death.
Grave Witch is entertaining, "out there" and moving; a weird combo I know, but it works!I really enjoy reading books that feature Death as a character.
Needless to say, I got a kick out of his character and I'm hoping for more of him in future books.Kalayna pulls many slight-of-hand moves throughout the story which kept things interesting and me on my toes.
Grave sight was also a pretty nifty ability but like all magic in this universe, it also comes with a price.The relationship between Alex and Death was the star of this book for me.
Some days I wished he hadn’t— particularly when we crossed paths on the job.Thing is, when I'm reading an urban fantasy series I need to...
you know, understand the world I'm reading, and why things are the way they are...
-_- NoFallon, unlike Trenton, reads as this one dimensional douche-bag, with the respective sports car and a tendency to boss Alex around.As for Alex, it's like she doesn't know the world she's living in, so she's always making mistakes.It was frustrating to read about.As for another character, Death, he reads as a fluffy kitten.
Lots of world building that isn't always explained, but doesn't leave me drowning without any familiar stepping stones.
(view spoiler)[ My biggest is the confusion as to why Alex is included in the ritual at all, even as a witness.
The black spell marking her soul is genetic, and not specific to her as a person, so I'm wondering why she was directly targeted at all.
Also, it seems surprising that all these women were targeted were feykin, but no one was able to recognize that except Falin.
I'm sensing a potential love triangle on the horizon but I actually don't mind Falin and I really hope to see more of Death in the next book, so even that isn't really a setback here.
The world kind of reminds me of a simpler version of the Dante Valentine series [which I had to quit a few books in because of horrible love interests] and her whole relationship with Death is a bit like the Niki Slobodian series [which took awhile to warm up but I absolutely loved by the end, so I'm hoping it takes more after that series as I continue it].
I was really excited to read this book, and I wanted to love it. I really didn't develop a connection with the characters, however I liked the story/plot, But I found the dialogue exhausting at times, just talking, talking and alot of doing nothing. To me the author spent too much detail on the magic and not enough time developing the characters. I need to have feelings for my characters!! And not enough action.But hey, this is just me.
Weakly written, no depth and things just occur with no meaning or reason why.Death was hot though.
Against her better judgment she agrees to help her sister even though Alex's family disowned her a long time ago.
She must quickly unravel the mystery or she stands to lose everything and get that one final visit from Death to collect her soul.I absolutely love the opening for this book!
There is an incredible dynamic of tension whenever he is around because he loves to keep Alex guessing.
In a lot of books, things come too easy or there are too few consequences for power.
After Alex uses her grave sight powers, she goes almost completely blind for a while.
I love Alex's character.
Around 3 stars. I'll come back and review the rating after reading the next few books. This reminded me a lot of Anita Blake pre-porn era, when it was about raising zombies and catching bad guys. Remember that? Fun times!Except instead of raising zombies you raise "shades" and instead of a vampire and a werewolf you have a Fae and... Death. Yep, not talkative, very mysterious, yummy death. I give points for partial originality. Alex, our main girl is nice in an unassuming kind of way. She's not
Around 3½ stars.
I'll come back and review the rating after reading the next few books.
This reminded me a lot of Anita Blake pre-porn era, when it was about raising zombies and catching bad guys.
Remember that?
Fun times!Except instead of raising zombies you raise "shades" and instead of a vampire and a werewolf you have a Fae and...
Death.
Yep, not talkative, very mysterious, yummy death.
I give points for partial originality.
The mystery was not amazing but I give it extra points for being easy to read and overall enjoyable.
I'll definitely be reading the next one!
Re-read audible version01/19/2016- 01/31/2-16Rate 4.5 out of 5 stars -.5 I'm not a fan of the narrator —————————————5.0 out of 5 stars A surprise!, January 24, 2011his book was a recommendation from Amazon for my Kindle.
After downloading and reading the free sample, I gave it a go.
What a surprise.
This book was a page turner.
Price has a talent for Urban Fantasy.
I stayed up all evening and well into the early morning reading this book.
This series has been added to my auto buy list.
I am eagerly awaiting book 2 of the series.
Well done Ms. Price!
Alex Craft is a grave witch. She can raise the Shades of the dead. She is also a consultant for the police. When asked to raise the Shade of a murder victim, Alex quickly agrees, since it seems like a simple case. But, this case is anything but simple. Not only is she attacked by the Shade, it quickly becomes clear that someone wants her dead. I loved this book!! I must binge read the rest!
