https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60400.The_Ruins_of_Gorlan
It’s been a while since I read a classic sword and sorcery fantasy novel, but I enjoyed this one a lot.
The relationship between Will and his Battleschool rival is particularly well portrayed, and Will’s training as a ranger makes for great reading.
The novel was a bit long on the explanations for my taste -- a lot of telling about the characters especially at the beginning when showing would have sufficed -- but that did not stop me from enjoying the book.
On a purely technical note, this was one of the few books I’ve read that uses third-person omniscient point-of-view and actually pulls it off.
Go to sleep!" She snatched the book one of Rangers Apprentice, The Ruins of Gorlan right out of my hands.
Sadly, when you live in the Ward you are orphans and you basically take care of yourself.
Sadly, Will does not make it to battle school so he believes his life will be one of a farmer.
The best part of it all though; you never know exactly what's going to happen next.It's full of action, adventure, and soon to be revealed mysteries.
Yeah, if it sounds like your kind of fantasy book then read it!
3.5 stars. Yippee…Hooray.....EXCELSIOR…. I found a quality YA fantasy story that I really liked. Before reading this, I had been in a bit of a slump with this sub-genre and had been considering a permanent separation. Thank goodness my literary guidance counselor asked me to give it one more try and recommended this book. I am very happy I stuck with it. I really liked this story and was surprised with how quickly and effortlessly, I go sucked into the narrative. Now, granted, this book is inc
I found a quality YA fantasy story that I really liked.
Now, granted, this book is incredibly “derivative” of all of the fantasy that has come before it and there is nothing here that I could point to and say, “ah, now that is a very unique concept.” In fact, before reading this story, I thought that this lack of newness might have been my problem with the whole sub-genre.
I really liked the tone of the narrative and the pace was absolutely perfect.
P.S. I listened to the audio of this book read by John Keating and he did an absolutely PERFECT job.
I don't know why it got to me, but their camaraderie really turned into something special in the end.I also really enjoyed Will's budding master-apprentice relationship with the Ranger, Halt.
I really enjoyed the fact that even the horses, as well as some of the monsters, had thoughts that we were privy to, and I think this added some depth to the tale without being overwhelming or difficult to follow.There are some really great themes throughout this story that I think are great for kids to read about.
Many characters are slowly added to the story as the series progresses and it's quite wonderful to see them all change and help each other grow, from young ones to grownup adults.
There are many memorable characters that I have come to really like!Back to the story of this book, the most pleasant surprise for me was when the book switched from Will's point of view to Horace's.
I am always annoyed when that happens and there isn't a single adult in the big picture!What I loved the most while reading this book was the relationship between Will and Horace AND how it gradually changed and matured, becoming something very special at the end.
All of Will’s life he holds onto this fact and hopes one day to join the Battleschool in order to become a great warrior like his father.
But soon, a threat faces the kingdom Will lives in and he must accompany Halt to fight a returned evil.This is a fantastic book for tween boys.
Will and the other characters spend the beginning of the book feeling like they do not belong where they are, a struggle for many young tweens.
But the plot was good, the story of a young boy who faces his self doubts and becomes a strong and confident young man.
From the third book onwards the series branches out into a world of its own that draws upon our history to establish its own thrilling tales.
The lack of magic makes for a refreshingly different fantasy read.I enjoy the world John Flanagan has created but what really keeps me buying the books is the characters he's created.
I would have been about thirteen...So if you haven't read this series begin because even though there is ten or so books each can easily be read in a day.
Will, in a scene that reminded me of the opening to Pratchett's classic Mort, is chosen, last and least, to be apprenticed by an unexpected patron, the grim Ranger Halt.Despite a depth of worldbuilding similar to an RPG game, a tin ear for language and history that includes kilometers and potatoes in this medievaloid setting (well, all right, I probably have to allow him the potatoes, since Tolkien gets away with them), and horses that run like cars, the author manages to endow his collection of stereotypes with increasing charm as the book runs its short course.
Ten years later, he decided to turn them into The Ruins of Gorlan, the first book in the Ranger's Apprentice series.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه دسامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: ویرانه های گورلان - جنگاوران جوان کتاب اول؛ نویسنده: جان آنتونی فلانیگان (فلناگان)؛ مترجم: مسعود ملک یاری؛ تهران، افق، 1391؛ در 372 ص؛ مجموعه جنگاوران جوان کتاب 1؛ موضوع: رمان نوجوانان و داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 مویرانه‌های گورلان نام نخستین کتاب از سری داستان‌های شاگرد رنجر یا همان جنگاوران جوان اثر: جان آنتونی فلنگن نویسنده استرالیایی است.
او عزم کرده که این بار از جنگ دست خالی برنگردد....
Some aspects definitely remind me of The Lord of the Rings (like the Wargals that are basically wargs and the threat of Morgoth Morgarath). But I love LOTR and anything in medieval-type worlds so I'm not really complaining. This was a fun middle grade story that fans of the Redwall series, The False Prince, and The Chronicles of Prydain would probably enjoy!
In his kingdom when a ward of the Baron turns 15 there is a chance for craft masters to take on apprentices, to train them to be a great knight, cook, or diplomat.
But, as Halt, his master, and him grow closer he learns to love his craft.That is basically the plot of this particular book.
As a young boy it wasn't as interesting to me considering I'm an 18 year old girl, but I still loved his perspectives.
Horace had some incredible character development purely in this first book.
Originally a blog post on my book blog, here: https://thepagedreamer.wordpress.com/...On the surface, it’s just a fun, YA fantasy book about fifteen-year-old Will and a sort of coming-of-age tale with swords and bows and rangers in a medieval-esque world, and a much more straightforward, less-convoluted story.And it is all of that.But beneath the surface there are other things going on (at least to this reader) which I’ll get to later.It’s very funny, in a dry, kind of sarcastic way, that sometimes you almost don’t catch — and then you do and it’s HILARIOUS and you’re not totally sure why.
I wasn't a huge fan of Flanagan's writing style; there was a bit too much description for me.
I wasn't expecting there to be any, so it was rather disappointing.
I love the characters; they each had depth and unique personality.
I love his sarcasm and seriousness!
Jennie was so sweet; I could totally relate to her!
I am a combination of George and Jennie.
(view spoiler)[ I knew Halt knew Will's dad, but I wasn't expecting Will's dad to have saved Halt!
I LOVED it!
;)All in all, I really enjoyed this book and am excited to read the rest!
Re-read review:Just as good the second time!!!!
I've missed these characters so much.Original:This was soooo good.
I was enjoying it plenty, and then PLOT TWIST.
And then that ending.
Four words, one sentence...
I would have been happy crying if I hadn't been on the airplane.
Needless to say, when I saw the sequel at HPB, I snatched it up.
Halt was the best, Will was so...
good?
Amazing?
He was a very good MC, to be sure.
And then Horace...
And Alyss and the other wards...
Loved.
Much.Only one thing I didn't like was the minor cursing: 4 uses of (view spoiler)[d*** (hide spoiler)].
I finally found the first book at the library....and now I completely understand why they love it so much.
And why the books make everyone hungry...lol.
I dearly love strong and silent hero types....and Halt fit that bill wonderfully.
Will and Horace showed excellent character development.
I really want to shadow a Ranger now...RW Ratings: Language: 4 stars.
*rolls eyes* Abuse: 4 stars.
Horace is physically and mentally bullied a fair bit by other, very mean sophomore apprentices.
Lust: 4 1/2 stars.
1 instance of mild kissing (really?
It was one of those cringey instances where all you can do is just laugh.
This was amazingly bad. The writing itself is basically readable, but every single detail, phrase, made-up-name and plot point is the most cliched cliche ever written. Oh no! The evil Morgarath is trying to take over the generically Medieval Europe! Only young Will, an orphaned apprentice to the mysterious Rangers, can possibly save the kingdom! Le sigh.Can be freely read online here: http://www.scribd.com/doc/10330799/Ra...
Unabridged audio.Will and all the other wards are waiting to be chosen for the apprenticeship that will shape their life, they have turned 15.
All Will's friends are chosen for the apprenticeship they wanted...Will isn't.That night Will basically risks his life to get into the baron's office and find out more about his past...he is an orphan after all.
In doing this he passes the Ranger Halt's test and he is chosen as the Ranger's apprentice.An excellent book I enjoyed it...I find there are a lot of good YA books out there....and this one is especially so.
Recommended.
This is how you ruin a good story with poor writing, obvious plot holes and weak characters. What a waste.
I remember enjoying them a great deal even if I don't exactly remember how many books were already out (not many, as I mentioned, it's been a long time :P).
Recently, I stumbled upon the first book at the local library here in Germany and decided to give it another try to see if I still enjoy it.And I do!
And I'd likely continue it once my library has the others back.The first book in the series 'The Ruins of Gorlan' introduces as to Will, the MC and spoiler  The Ranger's Apprentice  :P.
This book clearly inspired me a lot when I first read it.
How that I'm working in a bookshop, I need to be familiar with books that we sell often, like this series.
(Technically, my age of 27 is 12+, of course :P) very suitable for boys, but of course also a fun read for girls.
When i bike to work (half an hour), I'm able to listen and thus read a book while I would have listed to random music otherwise.
I love this, more reading time!I enjoyed the book and I enjoyed it in this format.
Sometimes, when I'm looking for a break from the gratuitous aspects of adult life and literature, I like to give YA books a try.
Late bloomers do certainly exist; but in the alternate medieval Europe setting of the book, in which men are considered pretty old at 42, and given that in real life, medieval 15-year-olds were starting families, Will often seems more like a 12-year-old.
I liked Halt the Ranger very much, with his dry sense of humour and impressive skill set.
Netuším proč, ale hrozně mě to chytlo.Seděl mi styl psaní, příběh i hlavní hrdina a nemůžu se dočkat, až si přečtu další díl :)A zatím se mi to líbí mnohem víc, než Eragon... kéž bych tuhle sérii četla jako mladší!5/5*https://marky-books.blogspot.cz/2017/...
His dreams are dashed when he is instead chosen to be an apprentice to the Ranger Halt.
There are strange stories about rangers, and common people find their company vaguely unsettling.
Later, when the Baron offers him a position among the other Battle School trainees, Will refuses – graciously – because he now wants to be a ranger more than anything.There’s great danger ahead for Will (and his land).
Morgarath (the wicked, bad, naughty, EVIL personage in this particular fantasy series) is once again becoming powerful and wants to take back what she sees as hers.
So i began searching and came stumbling across this book.
I couldn't put down the book until either it was done or i was too sllepy to continue reading.
Will began to be trained as a Ranger, while Horace was being trained as a warrior, Jenny was being trained as a cook, George trained as a scriber, and lastly, Alyss was trained as a diplomat.
Throughout the training, Will and Horace gon through some adventures together and some were just Will and Halt.I finally finished my book!
Also Will complete a solo ride back to the castle from where he, Halt and Gilan was to summon help.
This book came with a very high recommendation from a friend of mine, and I can see why.
I really enjoyed this one.
I actually liked a secondary character, Horace, more than the main character, Will, but I think that's because I generally feel more for those placed in an underdog role.
Will didn't have it easy, but in the situation he was placed in, he excelled as he was expected to and beyond.
But I loved his character and determination in the face of those things.
I really enjoyed this one, and I'm looking forward to the rest of the series.
I don't know why I reread this.
I was sitting on the couch and it was within arms length so I picked it up and kind of flew through it in one sitting.
I had been thinking to re-read the books I had read from this series and go on and finish it but this really was an unexpected decision heheIt's not a masterpiece, it's not the most unique and breathtaking thing in the universe but bleeding skies, it's so bloody fun.
It's a quick read and a bit predictable but honestly it does get better as the series progresses and this is a good introduction!
I will probably go on to the sequel, if the next book isn't too expensive.Okay narration by John Keating, but I found myself reading the ebook instead, mostly.A spoiler-free view of the entire series, copied from an Amazon review: "The main characters begin as children but grow up quickly throughout the series.
The "good guys" all have a wry sense of humor (obviously the author's as well), while the "bad guys" are typically overbearing and too serious.
Children also fail to grasp the humor; growing up is shown as (in part) a process of coming to understand (and use) a rather dry wit with one's friends."
The Ruins of Gorlan is one of those stories that doesn't really bring anything new to the table.
Its like when you re-watch Supernatural season 1 or watch the old Star Trek.
You aren't there for anything new you're there to watch the Kirk's over acting and Bones being grumpy or Dean and Sam before the dark times.
Don't read this series for something new; read it for something old.
Read it for the troupes and coming of age story of an orphan.
Like I said it brings nothing new but dammit the book was well written enough for me to recommend it.
An excellent fantasy for middle readers. I can see why this gets rave reviews. The characters were instantly likable, the world was simple and well-built, and the action was exciting! I am actually interested in the rest of the series, which is unusual for me these days.
John Flanagan is a well known author of several different genres, but probably some of his best known books are the Ranger’s Apprentice series.
He hands a piece of paper to Baron Arald saying that there was something the Baron needed to know about Will.
Will’s curiosity is kindled about what Halt could possibility know about him and he decides to climb one of Redmount’s towers to get to Baron’s personal offices to the piece of paper.
If you haven’t read the Ranger’s Apprentice series yet I really recommend you start soon.
P.S. If you are interested in joining a Goodreads fan group for the RA series.
