https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68418.The_Dark_Elf_Trilogy_Collector_s_Edition
Love love love this character. This would be the best intro fantasy book I could give someone. Classic adventures, great storytelling, wonderful complex main character, interesting philosophy and moral core. I love it so much! I can't wait to get the next books as well. Drizzt is an epic character in an epic fantasy setting.
This was my first real knowledge of the Drow's way of life other than the terms "Underdark", "evil", and "Spider Queen", but as I started comprehending the complex politics surrounding a drow's life, I wanted to explain to Drizzt how screwed he really was.
Wrapping up the links from Menzoberranzan and the hope for a better future, this book forces Drizzt to understand that evil is not everywhere.
After the clear heroism of Zak, Drizzt determines that he must do more than flee the drow city, but also the Underdark.Sojourn is a book full of frustrating coincidences that seems to constantly screw Drizzt - mostly due to Drizzt's lack of knowledge of the surface cultures.
Sublime world-building and a very very angry culture of backstabbing and self-aggrandizement make atypical dark elf Drizzt Do'Urden the D&D legend that he is under Salvatore's masterful touch. Fraught with visceral combat and plenty of politics, it is the kill or be killed cauldron of morality that makes Drizzt's exciting character study and adventures so good. Excellent trilogy for fans of dark fantasy.
I was really looking forward to reading these books because several people I know positively raved about R.A. Salvatore.Remind me to hunt those people down later and beat them to death with a chunk of moldy cheese.These were some of the worst books I've ever read.
I'm not sure how it's possible to make fearsome battles and magic swords and dark elves so boring and annoying but Mr. Salvatore managed to do both.
I haven't seen such a whiney protaganist since Luke Skywalker (and I love Star Wars, don't get me wrong.) Note to you Mr. Salvatore, leave the martyred saints to religion - don't make them your main characters.
I managed to find a heaaaaap of hardcover novels from this series at a charity book sale - annoyingly enough, books 1-6 were not there, so I've ordered this bindup of the first trilogy to get myself started.I adored the Neverwinter Nights games when I was younger, so I'm hoping I enjoy this series as well. :")
The books deal with the themes of personal integrity in the face of adversity, friendship, and being true to one's self.
As he grows into a adult he sees how much hate is spread through his family and the dark elf society.
The adventures of Drizzt continue through many books, all written by Salvatore, and recurring themes are those of struggling against adversity, and finding one's true calling.
I highly recommend reading the Dark Elf Trilogy for a good dose of imaginative storytelling and incredible adventures in a colorful fantasy world.
I have to admit that I read this.
I am, thusly, admitting that I have a problem.
At the same time, I suppose it might be a good set of books, as I remember details from it perfectly after years of not touching it.
On the other hand, it could just be because it's one of the only books of its type - hard-core action fantasy - that I've read.
I also remember details perfectly from the one western I read halfway through at the age of twelve, and it was TERRIBLE.
Overuse/misuse of some words/phrases (found myself mentally editing as I read), a little over-melodramatic in places, and with the RPG setting, sometimes you can almost hear the dice rolling.
Let's just say you could probably start a drinking game on this and similar over-uses of certain words and phrases.3- Sappy melodrama.
Lots of it.4- Despite the many writing flaws, every so often you do get a shiny little piece of quartz in all that messy gravel, which gets me feeling for the main character (who's actually pretty smart, otherwise I couldn't stand him), so that purple-eyed hang-dog bastard is gonna keep me coming back picking at these books like a scab.
Those unfamiliar with term "Mary Sue character", check here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_SuePlus, both Edward and Drizzt come from "evil background", one is a sparkling vampire, the other is BDSM femdom dark elf, but they overcome their legacy to be jolly good fellas.And even sparkle is a common trait.
Edward sparkles, and Drizzt has a sword named "sparkle".
I believe that books like these make the fantasy genre look trashy and unworthy.
Please, don't judge the entire genre by these books, there are good and serious writers here.
I didn't realize how much I enjoyed the fight scenes until I read other fantasy and felt like the battles were lacking in depth and detail.
I've read almost everything Forgotten Realms except the very recent, and would recommend it to any fantasy lover.
It's a fun read and easy to fall in love with the characters.In this series you meet Drizzt Do'Urden and learn about the wicked ways of the Dark Elves.
He's what you'd call the "white sheep" of dark elven society and is restless in Menzobaranzen.
You can't help but grow to love the guy!After you finish this series, I'd recommend the Icewind Dale Trilogy.
Reading the adventures of Drizzt and his companions, and the exploits of his evil family and other denizens of the underdark, make me feel like such individuals actually exist somewhere, and the book is describing real, historically verifiable events.
Salvatore also gives the reader a glimpse of the (sometimes alien) mindset of these fantasy races - after a few chapters of the first book I began to think like a devious, power-hungry drow.The author also describes the world in vivid detail, sometimes painting brilliant scenes.
It included everything you would expect from a "Dungeons and Dragons" fantasy book…sword fights, dragons, good and evil, yet it starts in a rather unexpected way.The main character, Drizzt comes from a rather backwards society.
As Drizzt struggles with his conscience and the challenges of his society, it comes down to a culminating moment where he must decide between submitting himself to the will of his people or saving a young elf child.
Drizzt struggles to do what he believes to be right while facing searing loneliness and despair.What I enjoyed most about these books was the look at the great beauty that emerged from such a dark society.
This was an omnibus of the the first three Drizzt novels: Homeland, Exile, and Sojourn.
They contain the adventures of a young drow elf who rejects his violent homeland for exile and eventual adventures on the surface world.
The first novel paints a dreadful picture of his homeland and city of Menxoberranzan.
The second deals with his misadventures escaping it.
Sojourn is concerned with his exploits making his way on the surface world.
Drizzt is a fighter.
However, he is versed in magic.
The tell is told in third person and then interspersed with first person narrative.
The first omnibus took a while to read.
Setting up lots of fun adventures with a Good Drow (lent to me because I'm playing a Drow Paladin in a campaign), it's a great adventure story that plays out like a younger, sillier Dune with the plans within plans.
much like a certain Darth named Vader in more ways than one) work to create an interesting story.
Overall, I'm still enjoying the fantasy and fun, especially as Salvatore works at making this trilogy slightly deeper and more meaningful than just an origins epic.
Lacking the interesting themes from the second book, lacking the overall better writing of the first ...
And by the third book I *already know* that when Drizzt drops a globe of darkness, he is calling upon his innate magical abilities.
His only friend Mooshie dies, and Drizzt goes out to travel the world for SIX years without being hunted down by humans who think he murdered the family in Maldobar, or befriended by the Rangers and elves who know he didn't do it.
HOW does Drizzt travel the world for SIX years, showing people he is a dark elf with purple eyes, without becoming the subject of a manhunt by people who think he is a murderer?
However, I found myself getting a bit twitchy and wanting Drizzt to leave the dang place a lot sooner than he actually did, which brings me to the pacing.
Also, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think Drizzt was keenly holding on to untaught and/or bluntly discouraged morals before Zak even got the chance to plant the seed of righteousness within his little dark elf brain.
The Dark Elf Trilogy had some bad points, but it has a lot of good points too.
The characters were usually two-dimensional at best, but, to be honest, that's better than most books I've been ending up with.
Then when Drizzt moves to the surface and finds the prejudiced hatred of the surface people.The plot has exciting chases and battles, which fill up most of the book, as well as interesting parts about drow society, with Drizzt growing up in a world going against his principles.
Also, the part when Drizzt first gets to the surface is not as good, as well as the part with the illithids.The pacing, like I said has some slower parts, but for the most part it is pretty fast.
It isn’t the fastest of the fantasy books I have read but it was still moves along pretty good.
It's the first book I read from the Forgotten Realms collection.
And many of the drow world disclosures are completely unnecessary.
It's perfectly clear how evil the drow are, and how "happy" such a society is.
Also in the first book, clearly for the reader's immediate benefit, the characters make some world-defining comments which are off-character.
But seriously, it is fun.The second book, Exile, felt a lot slower than the first, but the development of Drizzt's character was interesting.
I wondered when he would discover powder and start shooting everyone around...The last book, Sojourn, is on the same level as the second.
I know a multitude of people who absolutely adore RA Salvatore.
I was more-or-less forced into reading this book (now that I did it reluctantly - I love these kinds of stories) but let's just say that there was a lot of hype involved before I actually get into the book.
Perhaps that's why I found it mediocre.Here are my thoughts when it comes to good books.
I really value that - however, I found that the characters in the story was just lacking.
I applaud Salvatore's original story but I found his characters and writing style lacking.
The sheer EPICNESS of the setting and character is what got me.Menzobarrenzen(sp?) is one of the coolest fictional cities I have ever read about.
Drizzt is a sweet little drow surrounded in a world of vileness.
The story is his essential rise to maturity and flight from the Drow city.
You almost want to escape this place yourself.This is a great ol' hero of a character, the type that I personally miss in the world of books.
The story pulls at the heartstrings a bit, especially during the initial prejudices of Drizzt's surface life.I gave it a three-star because of the second part- Exile.
As soon as I finished the second book, I got online and ordered the first three trilogies from SFBC.com.It's been a long time since I delved into fantasy this deeply - the last few years I've been on a science fiction kick.
The depictions of the dark elvish city Menzoberranzan, the echoing passages of the Underdark, the dark intrigues of the drow, Drizzt's desperate journey to find his own way - these books were worth the tired feeling I had at work the next day after another sleepless night reading "just one more chapter."
I knocked these out one at a time, but it's easier to review them as a trilogy.They're better than "not bad" so I give it 3-stars, but they're not a Mistborn or Kingkiller chronicles which have almost universal appeal.The first book was paced well, written well 'enough', and created the setting for an interesting universe of fantasy fiction. The second book was a little on the "quick action read" side and the third book just got lame after awhile--nothing egegriously wrong with it, but it is a little silly.If you're into the genre, they're light easy-to-read page turners.
This was my first foray into the story of Drizzt, and actually all of D&D books.
I felt that it was a good place to start, although quite dark in that we spend a lot of time with the dark world of the Drow, which I really didn't enjoy.
But seeing the character of Drizzt, a pure-hearted and kind character, grow throughout this series has been very satisfying.
It is good to know that he has come through so much and not lost himself.
Overall this was a satisfying read and has piqued my interest so much that I intend to read the rest of the series.
Drizzit's story is one that I've been meaning to read for a long time. As both a fantasy fan and a roleplayer the books have been on my radar. So what do I think now that I've read the first trilogy? I enjoyed my time with Drizzit and will read more of his story. Salvatore has created an interesting character in the dark elf ranger with a conscience. There is room for further exploration of the moral questions raised in the books and I'm looking forward to seeing how they develop.
As a whole, I really liked the story of Drizzt. I didn't like it as separate books, but I guess there had to be some separation of what is going on in Drizzt life at the moment of writing. Anyway, I very much enjoyed this new world, I very much like the character of Drizzt and I very much like what he became in the end. Some of the gory details were way too much for my taste, but I guess that's the style of Salvatore.
This whole series is middle grade writing driven by obvious plotting. But I'm an old gamer so I loved reading them. The character is awesome and it is his journey up from darkness that draws you along.
This was a really solid beginning to an incredibly long series that I will attempt to read all of but it will probably take me nine centuries. But that aside I thoroughly enjoyed this book!
My favorite of all the Trilogies about Drizzt
Good stuff! Recommended read.
I LOVE THIS SERIES AND DRIZZZZZZZZZT!!!! <3*MEGA HUGE FANGIRL SCREAM*
