https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17910054-the-sixth-extinction
While there is a lot of science here, Kolbert keeps it accessible for those of us who don't while away our days reading scientific journals (you know, while our basic needs and consumer choices destroy everything around us), and her first person narrative keeps it from veering into textbook territory.There's a lot here that I enjoyed, but three highlights stand out:1) Kolbert's early chapters about men like Cuvier, Lyell, and Darwin, who were among the first to speculate on extinction and evolution.
This is officially the most boring book I've read this year.There were some interesting moments but they were too few to compensate.
You'll learn more about random rainforest frogs than you ever wanted...Also I find that while reading some non fiction you have to like the author to a certain extent and I just couldn't here.
One moment during the book she writes about how she tried to visit a certain location and asked the lady working at the gift shop to give her a tour.
Dial M for Murder This is a dark and deeply depressing book, trying hard to be hopeful — on the lines of Douglas Adams' Last Chance to See.Kolbert's book reminds us that we could be the last couple of generations to witness true diversity, maybe the last to see such magnificent and delicate creatures as the amphibians.The story of the Sixth Extinction, at least as Kolbert has chosen to tell it, comes in thirteen chapters. Each tracks a species that’s in some way emblematic — the American mastod
Each tracks a species that’s in some way emblematic — the American mastodon, the great auk, an ammonite that disappeared at the end of the Cretaceous alongside the dinosaurs.The creatures in the early chapters are already gone, and this part of the book is mostly concerned with the great extinctions of the past and the twisting history of their discovery, starting with the work of the French naturalist Georges Cuvier.The second part of the book takes place very much in the present—in the increasingly fragmented Amazon rainforest, on a fast-warming slope in the Andes, on the outer reaches of the Great Barrier Reef.Martyrs to Awareness?Kolbert’s book also spends much ink tracking the history of humanity’s (well, western at least) awareness of extinction and then the science of studying it.
Elizabeth Kolbert adds a wonderfully personal touch to many of the chapters, as she describes her visits to the habitats where various species are dying out.
Some biologists are gathering up endangered species, putting them into special reserves and zoo-like habitats where they might be able to survive.There is no single cause for the various massive extinctions.
If you gave one a shave and a suit, a Neanderthal might look like this: So, the question comes up why did these other nearly-human species go extinct, while humans survived?
The answer is very possibly that humans killed them off.What makes this book so special, is Kolbert's writing style.
Preschoolers are enlisted to help in reducing the toad's numbers:To dispose of the toads humanely, the council instructs children to "cool them in a fridge for 12 hours" and then place them "in a freezer for another 12 hours."Be careful when you reach for a popsicle in that house!So, besides losing lots of wonderful wildlife, why should we care?"In pushing other species to extinction, humanity is busy sawing off the limb on which it perches." ~ Stanford ecologist Paul EhrlichYep, we could be next.Rudy Park by Darrin Bell and Theron Heir, July 6, 2015There are things we can do, but you know how we are when it comes to cutting back and making sacrifices.Are we willing to do them?If you want me, I'll be on the floor sobbing.

She travels around the world to visit scientists and sites that are significant in the history of discovery about extinctions, giving focus to specific species that illustrate themes and current issues.
To the extent we can identify the causes of these revolutions, they’re highly varies: glaciation in the case of the end-Ordovician extinction, global warming and changes in ocean chemistry at the end of the Permian, an asteroid impact in the final seconds of the Cretaceous.
We are such a lethal force that we can unwittingly (or just greedily) wipe out entire species at alarming rates.There are a lot of good stories in this book, including the efforts of researchers who are desperately trying to save various species.
As the species expands its range, it crosses paths with animals twice, ten, and even twenty times its size: huge cats, towering bears, turtles as big as elephants, sloths that stand fifteen feet tall.
Extinction rates soar, and the texture of life changes.No creature has ever altered life on the planet in this way before, and yet other, comparable events have occurred.
Perhaps less ecologically-minded people might think "who cares about frogs and bats?" But all species on Earth are part of an interactive ecosystem, and the disappearance of any one organism might set off a domino effect that has unseen consequences down the line.
In "The Sixth Extinction" Kolbert sounds the alarm about humans wreaking changes on Earth in the current era - dubbed the "Anthropocene." With luck, Kolbert's book might help persuade concerned people to stop damaging the environment, curtail global warming, and save threatened species.
Kolbert argues that man’s unparalleled and insatiable need to discover, innovate, and change his environment was like “bringing a gun to a knife fight.” ”To argue that the current extinction event could be averted if people just cared more and were willing to make more sacrifices is not wrong, exactly; still, it misses the point.
“As soon as humans started using signs and symbols to represent the natural world, they pushed beyond the limits of that world.” We are just witnessing the outcomes now.Kolbert writes “Though it may be nice to imagine there once was a time when man lived in harmony with nature, it’s not clear that he ever really did.” Perhaps American Indians with their roaming, nomadic habits, no fixed abode, and principles including commune with nature and not taking more than they needed to survive, may have been the last great environmentalists.
Belts tighten, poverty increases, some may try to move away but get crushed under the wheels of a much larger machine.Now extrapolate that situation to every other town in the world.And then overlay the problem to every other species in the world.
And even if a tribe hunts down a wooly mammoth every ten years, the gestation is slow enough that it would still bring a downward pressure on the species until it's gone in several thousand years.
One of the very best I've read on extinction events.
Little did I know then that in later years I would look for the birds, butterflies and insects of my youth and not see many of them.
There is so much we didn’t know back then, but then I remember my 8th grade teacher, Mr. Bailey, telling us about the book "Silent Spring" by Rachel Carson, about a time when we would not be hearing song birds and other sounds of nature.
Scientists estimate that 150-200 species of plant, insect, bird and mammal become extinct every 24 hours.
On the one hand there is climate change and acidification of the oceans (which is why you need to eat all the Lobster Thermidor that you can, now) this is causing mass extinction, at the same time Human activity, generally moving about and either deliberately or thoughtlessly moving other species about is increasing diversity everywhere but also reducing the numbers of species - for example the human colonisation of the Pacific introduced pigs and rats to lots of islands that didn't have any mammals other than bats, but the rats and the people consumed in one way or another a lot of the locals into extinction.
carson’s, new yorker staff writer elizabeth kolbert confronts what may well be the most compelling, portentous, and defining characteristic of our modernity: the nearly inconceivable and irretrievable loss of earth’s biodiversity at the hands of our own species.as with her acclaimed 2006 book, field notes from a catastrophe, kolbert’s the sixth extinction: an unnatural history considers the rapacious effects of humanity’s unmitigated conquest of our planet and its biota – and the harrowing legacy our actions (and inactions) have ultimately wrought.
with beautiful, luminous prose (well familiar to readers of her new yorker articles), kolbert accessibly reveals the extent of the mass extinction we are currently in the midst of.
So on top of the many species we have hunted to extinction from the great auk in Iceland to the moa in New Zealand; we have carried in snakes and rats that have eliminated everything from bird populations in Guam to palm trees on Easter Island and more recently spread fungi that have decimated amphibians and bats, to list just a few examples.
Kolbert profiles past extinctions in which climate was a factor, but there is a major difference in the current situation – the rate of change.
Climate change puts ocean life at risk as well.
Und fragen sich, was wohl zu ihrem Untergang geführt haben mag.In der Retrospektive verblüfft sie am meisten, wie man eine derartige Entwicklung bemerken und unbeschwert und fröhlich pfeifend so weiter machen konnte.
Die haben nicht einmal eine Seele, regt euch nicht so auf."Die Überzeugung, man könne mit Technik alles wieder richten, ist naiv und kurzsichtig.
Nur die Artenvielfalt, Variationsbreite und Genialität der Natur in Millionen Ausprägungen, die sich in Milliarden Jahren entwickelt hat, wird für immer verloren sein.
Die Menschen werden nicht aussterben, egal wie vergiftet und lebensfeindlich der Planet auch noch werden wird.
Не е тайна за никого, че човеците са видът, който в най-голяма степен е размествал фигурите по дъската на планетата Земя и е взимал най-много пионки (и не само) под формата на други видове. Природни ресурси, които преди са се смятали за практически неизчерпаеми, днес са преминали в графата „ако не направим нещо различно  скоро , спукана ни е работата“. Преди около петдесетина години водата е била такъв ресурс. Тогава населението на Земята е било по-малко от половината на днешното. За разлика от
Като вид, който се гордее с това, че мисли, следователно съществува, в течение на иначе кратката си история сме извършвали чутовни плиткоумия от жестокост и липса на проницателност (немалко от тях върху други хора, но това е съвсем друга тема).
Стана ми изключително тъжно, защото знаех историята на последните два екземпляра от вида и не гледах просто едно умряло животно с табела до него.]Хората, като всички хищници, ядат животни, но като никои други същества използват и техни части като модни аксесоари, за целите на парфюмерийната индустрия, за украса и дори като наркотик („Роговете от носорог, които са направени от кератин… през последните години стават дори още по-търсени като дрога за богаташи: в клубовете в Югоизточна Азия шмъркат рог като кокаин“).
Most depressing book that I've ever read.
The physical science of man's injury to Earth began since he emerged as a species, and now is at its zenith.
In spite of the evidence, not much is being done to reduce the damage.
I felt sicker and sicker as I read on, and I hated picking the book up once I'd put it down.
As a species, humanity is self-serving and aggressive.
I've watched Trump pooh-pooh climate change, knowing that our oceans are becoming acidic which is going to kill off microscope marine food for salmon, whales etc., kill reefs - which has nothing to do with temperature and everything to do with CO2 levels.
Read it and weep.
This one should be required reading in highschool. It will teach one more about the world and humanity than The Scarlet Letter or its ilk ever could. It's a book about wonder at the natural world and evolution, and a walk through of why most humans suck at sharing the globe. My initial reaction:Then I had a good cry.
It’s sad and depressing, and it’s the truth.Today, amphibians enjoy the dubious distinction of being the world's most endangered class of animals; it's been calculated that the group's extinction rate could be as much as forty-five thousand times higher than the background rate.
It’s what keeps us going.” But, as Kolbert herself says:To argue that the current extinction event could be averted if people just cared more and were willing to make more sacrifices is not wrong, exactly; still, it misses the point.
The first half of the book covers how we came to understand the history of mass extinction.
The second half probes the human role in the current sudden rise in animal and plant extinctions- especially through our role in driving global warming and ocean acidification.
While Kolbert's information here is frightening, her presentation is understated and she studiously avoids politics.
The reader, however, may acquire a melancholy perspective on the state of nature in another hundred years- as a fascinating book that will have many missing pages.
Will the "humans" page ultimately be ripped out as well?
To keep up, organisms will have to migrate, or otherwise adapt, at least ten times more quickly.Though it might be nice to imagine there once was a time when man lived in harmony with nature, it’s not clear that he ever really did.Harboring some hubris about your place in the world?
I already knew the facts about climate change and animal extinction, but according to Kolbert the prognosis is even worse than I was aware, given that ocean acidification – “global warming’s ‘equally evil twin’” – is one contributor I hadn’t ever considered.
Научих доста неща и не ми е толкова спокойно, както до преди това.Подробно е разгледано влиянието на човека върху околната среда, унищожаването и преместването на видове и често катастрофалните последици от това.
И е доста по-гадно, отколкото звучи...Книгата е написана оптимистично и аз съм съгласен, че хората никога не са живяли съвсем в хармония с природата, но трябва вече да сме достатъчно съзрели, за да се опитаме да ограничим въздействието си върху планетата.
И е факт - епохата на антропоцена продължава, и от нас зависи как ще завърши - с някакво, може би крехко равновесие или с поредното, шесто масово измиране на видове.
Което, апропо вече е факт за много животни и растения.
splendid! delightful! holy hell, we are all fucked!
***NO SPOILERS***(Full disclosure: book abandoned at page 173 [out of 269 pages].)This book isn’t bad, and it’s definitely important--everyone should learn about the topic--but Kolbert isn’t an engaging writer, and engaging writing is crucial for such an involved topic.
When Kolbert deviated from her academic style and injected some feeling into her writing, as she did most successfully in the great auk chapter, I was instantly invested.
I wondered whether breaking down information as intricately as she did was truly necessary to see the larger picture, especially because she wrote this book to appeal to a wide range of readers, not just science geeks.
The Sixth Extinction isn’t a science book for the masses.
This time around, the cataclysm is us.In prose that is at once frank, entertaining, and deeply informed, The New Yorker writer Elizabeth Kolbert tells us why and how human beings have altered life on the planet in a way no species has before.
Interweaving research in half a dozen disciplines, descriptions of the fascinating species that have already been lost, and the history of extinction as a concept, Kolbert provides a moving and comprehensive account of the disappearances occurring before our very eyes.
She shows that the sixth extinction is likely to be mankind's most lasting legacy, compelling us to rethink the fundamental question of what it means to be human.
Fascinating and disturbing. Looks like, and not surprisingly, mankind will be causing the demise of our own species in the sixth extinction.
She touched on history as archeology has helped define it with reference to the past extinctions.
I think, because she was being a writer, she needed to tell me things I didn't care to know, like what she and her research mates had for breakfast before they set out to discover whether or not a particular bug was or was not extinct.So here's the big spoiler alert.....she said humans were well on the way to an extinction and we were bringing it on ourselves.
The sixth extinction is us.
The one high point of the book for me was that she did not....to my memory....suggest that we could change things before it's too late.
It seems to me she's saying it is already too late.
The second half gets a little head-banging-against-a-wall, with example after example of currently endangered or recently extinct species, all told in the same palatable way.
Here are a couple: i) Kolbert pushes the 'anthropocene' (i.e., the 'geological' epoch determined by the existence of humanity and our destruction of other species) into the *very* distant past, roughly, when the indigenous peoples of Australia first killed off the continent's mega-fauna.
If you have to kill a hundred foxes to reintroduce a threatened species into their previously natural environment, is that really a moral thing to do?
Kolbert won the Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction in 2015 for this detailed study of the five mass extinctions over the last 500 million years, and the titular sixth extinction that she (and scores of researchers) says is occurring right now.She documents the conservation work in nearly every environment and landscape, and a number of living things: amphibians, trees, birds, corals, microorganisms, bats, rhinoceros, as well as many other species of living things.
It doesn't much matter when lather people care or don't care.
What matters is that people change the world."Does it mean that any conservation effort is for naught?
