https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376586.How_to_Trade_in_Stocks
The main thing that is new is some actual detail about approaching Livermore's pivot points, including some actual examples.
The big disappointment in the edition I read was the amount of time spent promoting some software developed so the reader could use the Livermore system for JUST $49.95 per month.
And now, having read that, if you don't want to listen to any of his advice and just want to get rich quick, you can buy our new software that takes all the work out of it, and as such violates the most basic of Livermore's principles.The other thing I found out was the sad circumstances of his life.
This is a must read book for any trader attempting to make it big.
Jesse Livermore, in many ways, is the complete opposite of financial role models like Warren Buffet.
There is more to this book than just the financial advice as Livermore provides an example to live a successful life.
I duly recommended this book to anyone on the path to become a great trader.
One of the most useful books I have read because of the opposing perspective it provides from the norm.
Really, who would take seriously the trading system of a guy who lost the lot at least five times, and ended up eating a bullet? So what if he made six fortunes, when he lost five of them. Just goes to show there is no system to 'beat' the market. As for the book itself, some poor editing, inconsistent trading strategies (he wants the trade to go right from day one, but then "never tried to catch tops or bottoms". And the so-called software that was in development seems to be nonexistent.
I find it fascinating that a book on trading written in 1940 still applies today.
To quote Jesse Livermore, "There is nothing new on Wall Street or in stock speculation.
This is because human nature does not change, and it is human emotion, solidly built into human nature, that always gets in the way of human intelligence." This book takes a peek at how one might ride the many human emotion waves in the stock market right before they crash out.
I am sure the exact methodologies are more sophisticated and nuanced today, but principles will probably apply.
The system focuses purely on a momentum based strategy revolving around charting techniques.
Little to do with Ghaham / Dodd style investment analysis (Livemore actually discourages this style of investing).
Since I prefer financial statement analysis to charting (sorry, voodoo in my mind) I wasn't pulled in by the various tops, bottoms, shoulders, and breakout points.
That said, the understanding of momentum, both in terms of industries as well as individual stocks was very enlightening.Regardless of my opinion, Livemore was extremely successful at what he did and his life was unique both in terms of his work as well as how he handled his fortunes.
A Classic! Jesse Livermore's contribution to investors the world over was "The Pivotal Point." The point in the chart where a confirmation for a new trend has begun. Jesse stated: "I never benefited much from a move if I did not get in at somewhere near the beginning of that move."
Learn from the legend!
Growth Trader's bible, and easy to recognize who Influenced Bill O'Neil of IBD.
Read reminisces of a stock operator way back 88 or 89. this is a great review. like the pivot points myself.
See my review here: How to Trade in Stocks
Good book
Nowhere near reminiscences of a stock operator - much much superior book.
Learn the golden rules of stock trading, but don't forget them when you start to sweat! Another must read!
All time classic for trading.
Jesse Livermore is like a wonder to me, but this book clearly shows that he was best talented in Trading stocks.
But some people really manage to outwit the market, either by chance (say, if one throws a dice 10 million times, there will likely be a sequences of throwing 10 sixes in a row) or some analytical method which had not been uncovered by anyone else before.
JL would agree with that assessment, he would argue that Livermore method is about constant improvement of analytical skills, not copying someone else blindly.However, I liked reading the book.
More like psychology study of a trader book to me. JL mentioned alot tips that are still relevant until today, and his pivotal theory is important as well. His advanced method is quite outdated in modern era, as charts are updated every sec and flash crash can happen anytime esp volatile asset like bitcoin and cryptos.
Still relevantThough Jesse Livermore died in 1940, his stock trading advice is still relevant. Follow the lessons he learned from his decades of trading stocks through the recession of 1907 and the depression of 1929, as well as, insights learned from his study of human psychology.
Few quotes and invaluable. He provides practical insight of viewing the price trend, natural reaction of stock, natural rally.One line which I liked the most was "Markets are never wrong — opinions often are."
A Classic. Much of the advice given in this book still remains relevant today, especially for those who wish to trade Big Mo, as was Livermore's style.
I loved this book! Jesse Livermore is a stock trading legen, and learning how he invested and traded in stocks is worth millions!
Poise, patience, silence are the virtues successful Traders have.Take no tips.
Fascinating to read how the 'old timers' traded.
None of these things are related to his trading system (other than the bankruptcy perhaps) but they certainly add colour.The book is badly structured, repetitive, apparently piecemeal, but contains great advice for anyone contemplating the stock market.
It is a study of human psychology as much as anything else.And I was fascinated to read that Livermore acted like Scrooge McDuck, getting locked in a bank vault with his money for a weekend once a year - ostensibly to review his trading strategies!
Printed in 1940, Jessie Livermore detailed his method of trading stocks that made him one of, if not the best, trader in the 1930’s. His method of trading stocks is not what makes this book so special, it’s his subtle comments about the “way it used to be”. The markets changed so much from the “traders market” of the 1930s that he actually committed suicide very shortly after the book was printed. Jessie Livermore’s method of trading no longer worked when he wrote this book because markets where so much smaller.
I enjoyed reading this simple book about the trading methods of Jesse Livermore, written by one of the most famous traders Jesse Livermore. To be sure, I never heard of him before either except for the books I have been reading often referenced his "famous book". Jesse was a trader in the Turn of the Century and up into the '40s, and so you know, trading in the 1929 Crash he walked away with 100 million in cash, 1929 dollars! Interestingly I have become more curious to his biography and his tragic life; it would probably make a great movie.
This is an inside look to Jessie Livermore’s method. It’s kind of still good given that he’s simply reading tape, tracking absorption. I’m not much of an equities trader but it was a nice follow on book to the classic Remineessance of a stock operator. Worth a quick light read.
A very short book by Mr. Livermore himself. Technical analysis/Trend Following is much much more developed today than his time. Still, we can read the shine of his intelligence from this only book written by himself.
As i read this book, i was nodding and agreeing in silence. This book contains many jewels of trading wisdom.
if you follow IBD methods of stock buying, this book is a must purchase.
The information in the back of the book is very helpful in understanding his trading rules.
